Hon'ble Dr. Kaushal Jayendra Thaker,J. (Delivered by Hon'ble Sudhir Agarwal, J.) 1.	This is defendant's appeal under Section 96 of Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter referred to as " CPC ") arising from judgment and decree dated 05.05.2015 passed by Sri Gopal Upadhayay, Civil Judge (Senior Division), Allahabad in Original Suit No. 513 of 1989 (Jagatguru Shankaracharya, Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Swaroopa Nand Saraswati Vs. Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati). 2.	Plaintiff-respondent (hereinafter referred to as 'plaintiff') instituted Original Suit No. 513 of 1989, seeking permanent injunction restraining defendant appellant (hereinafter referred to as 'appellant') from being installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth Badrika Ashram Himalaya (hereinafter referred to as "Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth") and proclaim himself as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and restrain from holding Danda, Chhatra Chanwar and Singhasan of the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth.
 
Plaint Case 3.	Plaint case set up by plaintiff, vide plaint dated 10.11.1989 is that plaintiff is duly installed Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth from 07.12.1973 and performing religious duties and functions provided in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan", the books prescribed to regulate and govern functioning of Jagat Guru Shankaracharya. 4.	Several centuries ago, Jagat Guru Shankaracharya propounded theory of absolute Monism, based on the authority of Upnishads. His philosophy succeeded in combating Buddhism and re-establishing religion of Vedas. He preached Non-dualistic Philosophy. He established four Maths as Monasteries in four extremities of India namely, Jyotirmath near Badrika Ashram, (Badri Nath in Pauri Garhwal) (Now Chamoli Garhwal) in the North; Sharda Math in West (Gujarat); Shringeri Math in Mysore (South) and Goverdhan Math at Puri (East). He placed each one of aforesaid Maths in the charge of one of his principal ascetic disciples. He also prescribed Rules and Regulations governing aforesaid four Maths in booklets named 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan' written by him. Adi Shankracharya in the said two booklets prescribed territorial jurisdiction, qualifications for appointment and dethroning a Head of Math who was to be known as 'Shankracharya' of that 'Peeth'. 5.	Primary object of establishing these Maths was to encourage and foster Vedic teachings by maintaining a competent line of teachers to impart religious instructions to disciples and others; manage and strengthen doctrine of Vedic teachings so as to prevent any possibility of Vedic religion being affected by Philosophies, foreign to it. 6.	The two books "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" (later on also called as "Books of Command") are considered to have highest authority on the subject, being directly laid down by propounder of Math/Peeth, i.e. Adi Shankaracharya. 7.	Requisite qualifications for a Shankaracharya are contained in the following two verses of "Mathamnaya": 8.	The commands in the aforesaid books are mandatory and to be strictly followed. Besides, there have been long established customs and traditions in all the four Maths/Peeths, separate, independent and distinct, to install highly learned Sanyasis, who possess all qualifications/qualities laid down in 'Mathamnaya ' and 'Mahanushasan' as 'Peethadheeshwar'. These customs and traditions are being followed and observed without least deviation. In Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth, according to aforesaid Rules and Regulations prescribed in 'Mathamnaya', forty one learned and competent Sanyasis having requisite qualifications/qualities were installed to the Headship of Peeth, one after another. They performed duties, responsibilities and managed affairs of said Math/Peeth in the manner prescribed in the above books. 9.	For a period of about 165 years (prior to 1941) i.e. since around 1776 A.D., Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth remained without a Head. In 1941, three Shankaracharya of Shringeri, Sharda and Govardhan Math/Peeth, Rulers of various States, learned people and Sanyasis etc., authorised a registered institution known as "Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Banaras" (now Varanasi) (hereinafter referred to as "B.D.M., VNS") to search a Sanyasi, satisfying qualifications/ qualities prescribed in above books of command so as to install 'Shankaracharya' of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth with an object to restore above Peeth/Math to its prestine stage and prestige. 10.	Late Brahmanand Saraswati, a great learned Sansyasi was chosen and installed as Head of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth by "B.D.M., VNS". Above selection was approved by aforesaid three Shankaracharyas of other three Peeths, Sansayis and other learned men and followers of Vedic teachings. 'B.D.M., VNS' also executed a deed of declaration of trust, dated 11th May, 1941 (Baisakh Sudi 15 Samvat 1998). Entire land and site of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, Pauri Garhwal, including land and Ashram at Banaras (Varanasi) was placed under Trust of "Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Brahmanand Saraswati" with the conditions mentioned in the said deed. Late Brahmanand Saraswati performed his functions with great ability, resulting in reviving prestige of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth among people residing in northern India and became very famous. People made generous donations of moveables and immovables so that there may not be any financial scarcity in management of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth as well as Sanyasis attached to it. Late Brahmanand Saraswati managed property of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth as Trustee thereof and as a Sanyasi who renounced the world and devoted to religion. 11.	Adi Shankaracharya had oriented principles of Trust in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" and same continued, as it is, in all four Math/Peeths. 12.	Late Brahmanand Saraswati breathed his last on 20.5.1953. Then a question arose about his successor. While three Shankaracharyas, were pondering over the matter, it was claimed that a 'Will' was executed by Late Brahmanand Saraswati, nominating four persons as successors, namely, (a) Ramji Triapthi (subsequently known as Shanta Nand Saraswati) (b) Dwarika Prasad Shastri (c) Swami Vishnu Deva Nand Saraswati (d) Swami Parmanand Saraswati. According to 'Will', they were to succeed, one after another, and name of Ramji Tripathi alias Shanta Nand Saraswati was mentioned at first place. However, claim of Ramji Tripathi alias Shanta Nand Saraswati to succeed Math/Peeth as Shankaracharya was rejected by three Shankarachayas of other Peeths, learned, Pandits and Sanyasis. In fact, 'Will' was not executed by late Brahmanand Saraswati on the basis whereof Ramji Tripathi alias Shanta Nand Saraswati staked his claim. Three Shankarachayas and others rejected claim of Ramji Tripathi alias Shanta Nand Saraswati on the ground of incompetence, since he had not previously taken any education and till few years back, he was working as a Book Binder in Geeta Press, Gorakhpur. He was not conversant with Sanskrit Language and incapable to interpret Vedic philosophy etc. Plaintiff asserted in para 22 of plaint that said 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was a forged and fabricated document for the reason that it was not executed by Late Brahmanand Saraswati and circumstances under which its execution was alleged, also made it suspicious. It was not a genuine 'Will'. Moreover, Late Brahmanand Saraswati was not competent to make any 'Will' or nominate by 'Will' any successor(s) as Peethadheeshwar. He could not and did not own or possess any property of his own. Properties of Math/Peeth were held by him in Trust and not as personal property, hence could not have been disposed of through 'Will'. He also did not possess sound disposing mind at the time of execution of 'Will', when alleged 'Will' was executed on 18.12.1952. He had been suffering with sleeplessness and other ailments for a long time, preceding the date of alleged execution of 'Will'. Hence, it was illegal and invalid and did not have effect of making Ramji Tripathi and other three nominees, entitled to become Shankaracharya or clothe themselves with any right or title to hold and deal with the properties of Math/Peeth. According to Rules, directions, customs and traditions of Peeth, and further directions contained in declaration/deed dated 11.5.1941, successor to the office of Shankaracharaya had to be chosen by a body of learned men of Kashi Vidvat Parishad, a registered body (hereinafter referred to as 'K.V.P.') and to be approved by three Maths/Peeths. K.V.P. and other Shankaracharyas did not recognize alleged 'Will', hence neither selected nor installed him as 'Shankaracharya'. Instead, Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed on Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on or about 25.6.1953 and he continued to hold office till his death on 10.9.1973. 13.	Swami Krishna Bodhashram fell ill in September 1973, hence appointed plaintiff to perform duties of the seat and manage affairs of Math/Peeth during his ailment. However, he breathed his last at Delhi on 10.9.1973. Before his death, he proposed name of plaintiff for installing as "Shankaracharaya". Again, question of installation of "Shankaracharya" of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was considered by three "Shankaracharayas" of different Maths/Peeths and other learned persons. They selected and appointed plaintiff as "Shankaracharaya" of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, since he possessed all qualifications prescribed in 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. Installation ceremony of plaintiff was held at Delhi on 7.12.1973 in which 'Shankaracharaya' of Sharda Peeth and Gowardhan Peeth were personally present and offered Pattabhishek to plaintiff. Shankaracharya of Shringeri Peeth sent his representative who offered Patta Vastra, on his behalf, in the said ceremony. Besides, several other Sanyasis, Grihasths, Pandits, Scholars were also present and participated in aforesaid ceremony. All necessary religious ceremonies were performed. After installation of plaintiff, a procession was taken out from Gandhi Maidan, Delhi in which all three Shankaracharyas including plaintiff joined. Procession terminated at Azmal Khan Park of Karol Bagh and turned into a huge sabha, wherein various religious institutions of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal including followers and leaders of Jain Religion, Mandleshwars, Sanyasis and Grihasths welcomed and acclaimed plaintiff as 'Shankaracharya' of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and offered their homage. Since installation on 7.12.1973, plaintiff as 'Shankaracharya' of said Peeth is performing duties and discharging responsibilities in the said capacity i.e. Jyotish-Peethadhishwar. 14.	Plaintiff was attracted to asceticism at a very early age of 13 years. He studied Sanskrit at Narsinghpur and Kashi. In 1941 he joined Sanskrit Pathshala at village Rampur District Ghazipur. Before taking Danda (Sanyas), he accompanied many great religious and spiritual Sanyasis and Yogis namely Sri Vallabhanand, Sri Oriya Baba, Sri Karpatriji, Late Sri Krishna Bodhaharamji, Sri Maheshwarnandji, Sri Adwaitnand and Sri Akhandanand etc. Plaintiff learnt and discussed with aforesaid religious persons Vedas, Vedangas, Upnishads, Shastras, etc. His quest for knowledge brought him to Late Shankaracharya Brahmanand Saraswati in 1950 and he is Chela, senior to Ramji Tripathi alias Shantanand Saraswati. Plaintiff became Dandi Sanyasi and was introduced to Dasnami order. After learning religious philosophy for sometimes, plaintiff left Late Shankaracharya Brahmanand Saraswati to propagate Shankar philosophy and Sanatan Dharma, Hindu religion. Plaintiff mostly propagates Vedantic teachings in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal. Plaintiff has a large number of followers in the aforesaid States. In May, 1964 plaintiff established "Adhyatmic Utthan Mandal", a registered body at Paramhansi Ganga in Distt. Narsinghpur (Madhya Pradesh), having branches in Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat and is run by plaintiff's followers to impart religious instructions according to Sanatan Dharma. Plaintiff opened several other institutions to impart religious teachings. Ramji Tripathi alias Shantanand Saraswati, wrongly and illegally, claimed himself Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on the basis of a forged and fictitious will dated 18.12.1952, alleged to have been executed by Late Brahmanand Saraswati. Remaining three nominees, namely, Dwarika Prasad Shastri, Swami Vishnu Deva Nand Saraswati and Swami Parmanand Saraswati also had successive claim, watching exit of nominees, earlier to his name, also threatened to assume office of Shankaracharya of Badrikasharam Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. 15.	Plaintiff was compelled to file suit no. 1-A of 1974 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotish Peethadheswar Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati versus Ramji Tripathi and 3 others, in the Court of District Judge, Seoni. Subsequently, it was transferred to Court of District Judge Allahabad, who sent it to the Court of Civil Judge Allahabad and was assigned ultimately to the Court of Additional Civil Judge, Allahabad. Defendants therein with an objective to prolong disposal of aforesaid suit no.1A/1974, filed a revision in this Court against an interlocutory order passed by Additional Civil Judge for recording statement of witnesses. Ramji Tripathi alias Shantanand Saraswati, apprehending trouble to explain about his wrongful activities and competence to hold the office of Shankaracharya and also accounting for huge amount of Trust, withdrawn and misappropriated by him, executed a deed of relinquishment of said office of Shankaracharya on 28.4.1980 though he legally never held the said office nor was ever installed as Shankaracharya. He was also not competent to hold the said office. Without any right or authority he nominated Sri Vishnu Devanand Saraswati to be next Jagat Guru Shankaracharya, ignoring even line of succession stated in the alleged 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. Sri Vishnu Devanand Saraswati was at serial no. 3 in the alleged 'Will' and Swami Dwarikeshanand at number two. Without execution of valid 'Will' and even otherwise, Ramji Tripathi alias Shantanand Saraswati had no right to nominate a person at serial no. 3, bypassing the person mentioned at serial no. 2 in the alleged 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. Dwarikeshanand Saraswati was alive and had taken Sanyas long back. Late Brahmanand Saraswati had no right to execute a 'Will' creating and formulating line of succession of Shankaracharya and it was against provisions of 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. In fact, no such 'Will' was executed by him. Hence, Ramji Tripathi alias Shantanand Saraswati had no right to hold office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Therefore, question of relinquishment and nomination of other person by deed dated 28.4.1980 did not arise. In any case, aforesaid nomination was also without any right, authority and against conditions of alleged 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. No right, title and interest to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was ever approved in favour of Vishnudevanand Saraswati and he was never legally installed to the said office, which is possessed and occupied by plaintiff since 7.12.1973. 16.	Vishnudevanand Saraswati died on 1.11.1989. After death of Vishnudevanand Saraswati, appellant started manipulating himself to be installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, though plaintiff was already installed and functioning thereat with due recognition by all three remaining Shankaracharyas. According to conditions provided in 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan', only one Sanyasi having requisite qualification is entitled to be installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya and there cannot be more than one Jagat Guru Shankaracharya in same Peeth, hence appellant could not have claimed his installation as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya, since there was no vacancy. No question could have arisen of his installation in the said office. 17.	From various newspapers published from 5.11.1989 to 7.11.1989, it had come to notice of plaintiff that appellant was manipulating his installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 15.11.1989 at Alopi Bagh, which will affect and hit religious feelings of plaintiff and Hindu devotees, followers of Vedic and Sanatan Dharma propunded by Adi Guru Shankaracharya. Appellant was threatening to do so without any right and authority. He also did not possess requisite qualification as provided in 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan' for such installation. In any case, there cannot be two persons to be installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya in the same Peeth. Appellant, therefore, was not entitled for installation as Shankaracharya, hold and possess Danda, Chhatra, Chanwar and Singhasan of said office. Plaintiff was entitled to restrain appellant, by means of a decree of permanent injunction, from being installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and proclaim himself as such and to hold various decorations like Danda, Chhatra, Chanwar and Singhasan etc. of such office. Since appellant was bent upon for his installation as Shankaracharya, hence the suit. Cause of action arose on 7.11.1989 and 8.11.1989 when news items were published in newspapers that appellant would be installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 15.11.1989, though he had no such right and his act of getting such installation is wholly without jurisdiction. The suit accordingly was filed in the Court of Civil Judge, Allahabad with the relief as stated above.
 
Amendment of plaint after appellant's installation 18.	After filing of suit, appellant, however, proceeded to get himself installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Thereafter, by way of amendment, allowed vide Court's order dated 22.12.2006, paragraph 44/1 was inserted in the plaint which reads as under: Appellant's defence in written statement 19.	Appellant contested the suit by filing written statement dated 12.5.1992. It was pleaded that plaintiff was never installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and never exercised duties as such. According to 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan', plaintiff had no locus standi to encroach upon rights and functions of appellant who was recognized and duly installed as Shankaracharya in the said Peeth in accordance with norms, customs and usage of Peeth. Establishment of four Maths/Peeths by Adi Guru Shankaracharya in four extremities in India was not disputed but it was denied that affairs of Peeths are governed only by conditions prescribed in the two books 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. Shankaracharya of one Peeth can neither have any say nor function on the Peeth of another Shankaracharya and in this regard following versus have been quoted in para 2 of written statement: 20.	Functional area of Shankaracharya is limited within the boundaries of their respective Peeth. 'Mathamnaya' contains Rules which are regulatory in nature. Certain Code of conduct and qualifications have been dealt with in the two books but qualifications mentioned therein are not mandatory. They are only recommendatory and prescribes ideal character of a Shankaracharya. Plaintiff is neither qualified for the office of Shankaracharya nor ever nominated or installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. There existed separate customs and traditions in all four Peeths for selection, nomination and installation of learned 'Sanyasi' as Shankaracharya. Amongst four Peeths, there are fundamental difference with regard to source, terms and conditions, Sampradai (Sect), title, God, Goddess, Acharya, Tirth, Brahmchari, Ved, Mahavakya, Gotra, Area etc. Shankaracharya of one Peeth cannot become Shankaracharya of another Peeth in any circumstance, whatsoever. In the deed of declaration dated 11th May, 1941, "B.D.M., V.N.S." and Saints and Sanyasis bestowed title of Shankaracharya of Jyotish Peeth in accordance with customs and norms upon Late Brahmanand Saraswati. He occupied the seat and functioned to redeem and restructure the Peeth/Math which had lost and fallen into oblivion in the past 165 years. B.D.M., V.N.S. did not and could not reserve any power or right in itself or to anybody else for further installation. Late Brahmanand Saraswati had unrestricted discretion in the matter of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Averments in regard to learning and qualifications of Late Brahmanand Saraswati as stated in para 11 of plaint are admitted in para 11 of written statement. It is also not disputed that Brahmanand Saraswati took possession of all properties of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth when installed as Shankaracharya. After death of Brahmanand Saraswati there was no question of any selection or appointment since Late Brahmanand Saraswati himself appointed, in his lifetime, and nominated Ramji Tripathi alias Swami Shantanand Saraswati as his successor. Plaintiff challenged 'Will' deed dated 18.12.1952 but lost litigation upto highest Court, cannot raise the same issue again. Plaintiff has no right to challenge competence of Ramji Tripathi alias Swami Shantanand Saraswati, particularly when tenure is already over and challenge failed in different proceedings. Late Brahmanand Saraswati possessed considerable cash and personal property of his own which was never mixed up with the property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Late Brahmanand Saraswati was best person to judge and assess qualification of his successor and in that view of the matter, nominated Ramji Tripathi alias Swami Shantanand Saraswati as successor to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Succession passes from Guru to Chela through nomination by Presiding Guru and this custom of successor is also admitted to plaintiff. Swami Krishna Bodhashram was never appointed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth at any point of time. He was not a Chela of Late Brahmanand Saraswati. Even otherwise, he lost his claim in Original Suit No.3 of 1963 filed in the Court of Civil Judge, Garhwal for declaration of his claim, which was not recognised in the aforesaid suit decided by 5th Temporary Civil and Sessions Judge, Allahabad. Suit filed by plaintiff is fabricated one and only to gain his private ends. His claim of so-called appointment has never been accepted by Court or any other authority. Plaintiff was not even Chela of Late Krishna Bodhashram. No question arose for appointment of Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth nor the seat was ever vacant after death of late Brahmanand Saraswati. Plaintiff was neither competent nor ever installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth nor can claim himself to be Shankaracharya of said Peeth in any manner whatsoever. Plaintiff left Brahmanand Saraswati after severing all connections, laid another establishment. Swami Shantanand Saraswati relinquished seat on 22.2.1980. He nominated and appointed Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Swami Shantanand Saraswati held office of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth upto 27.2.1980 and due to old age, considering the qualifications required for the post of Shankaracharya, nominated and installed Swami Vishnudevanand on 28.2.1980. Swami Vishnudevanand held office upto 1.11.1989, when he breathed his last. He was very learned and qualified Sanyasi for the coveted seat of Shankaracharya. His nomination and installation of Shankaracharya was fully justified by customs, usage and practice. He was recognised by Sanyasis, Grihasths, Pandits and learned Scholars. He was in possession of all the properties of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati found appellant, most suitable and qualified person for installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and as such nominated him vide registered 'Will' dated 17.4.1989. As per norms, customs and usage, prevalent and recognised by Peeth for the said office, appellant was installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth with all religious formalities, due ceremonies and requirements on 14th and 15th November, 1989. He got possession of entire property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and since then, functioning and discharging duties of the said office. Installation of appellant is valid and otherwise claim set up by plaintiff is false, baseless and fabricated. No cause of action has arisen to plaintiff to file the suit on the basis of news published in newspapers. Succession had already proceeded from the 'Will' and nomination. Appellant is a qualified Sanyasi, well versed in Vedas, Darshan, Vedanta, Yoga, Vendangas and Adhyatamik (spiritual) philosophy etc. He is capable of maintaining high prestige of the seat and able to preach Shastras and religious philosophy to Sanyasis and Grihasthas. His religious attainments are well acclaimed and beyond doubt. Besides his attainments, his academic qualifications are (a) M.A. in Hindi and Philosophy (b) Vedantacharya (c) Pursharthacharya (d) Sahityaratna (e) Sanskrit Prabhakar (f) Ph.D. in Shankar Vedanta. He also possesses knowledge of Purusharth. He worked as Head of Department of Vedanta Vibhag in Sri Jyotish Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya (at Allahabad). His installation as Shankaracharya is most appropriate and appreciable. Plaintiff is not in possession of Danda, Chhatra, Chanwar and Singhasan of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth which, in fact, are in absolute possession of appellant. Plaintiff is not in possession of immoveable or moveable properties of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. Plaintiff has no right to sue. Plaintiff is a stranger to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and without any qualification and relation. He is not competent to initiate any proceeding against appellant in any capacity whatsoever. Suit is under valued and Court fee paid is insufficient. It is not stated as to how suit is valued. 21. 	It is further pleaded by appellant in written statement that on the death of Brahmanand Saraswati, an interim Committee of Management was set up with plaintiff as its president. He recognized Swami Shantanand Saraswati as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth after Late Brahmanand Saraswati. Subsequently out of sheer greed, plaintiff turned hostile and fought various legal battles to create hurdles in smooth functioning of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. This futile suit has been filed to disturb peace and affairs of Math/Peeth. Plaintiff's action is deliberate with mala fide intention. He has concealed and omitted to mention various litigations regarding affairs of Math/Peeth in question. Properties belong to Krishnanand Trust, has got distinct entity and those properties do not belong to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth Trust. Management of said property, belong to Krishnanand Trust, is in the hands of Trustee, which office is also with the appellant as Shankaracharya (ex-officio president). Properties and gifts received by Late Brahmanand Saraswati in different capacities, neither, ever blended together nor mis-invested with other Heads against the 'Will' of donor. Office of Shankaracharya is not for preaching religion only and that too within the restrictive limits of any particular country or particular region. It is for the entire world as the basic moto and Slogan is "Vishwa ka kalyan ho". If a person praying for welfare of world visits foreign countries, he cannot be disqualified for a coveted office of Shankaracharya. Plaintiff himself has visited Mauritius and other foreign countries in the capacity of Shankaracharya. Appellant never visited any foreign country in the capacity of Shankaracharya and any averment contrary to it is false. Appellant is more suitable and competent person to function according to tenets, rituals, teachings and also to manage properties and affairs of the Peeth. He is a man of strong character and exceptional capability needed for coveted office of Shankaracharya. Educational qualification is not a standard to judge capability of Peethadeshwar. He should be competent to observe the vitals and tenets of a particular sect for the benefit of Math/Peeth. For attainment of final Purushartha, knowledge becomes essential and for acquiring knowledge, a pure mind is essential, inasmuch as, for purity of mind, performance of rites becomes essential. This performance of rites becomes integral part of teachings of Adi Shankaracharya. Suit is barred by Section 92 C.P.C. as also principles of res judicata and estoppel. Plaint is liable to be rejected under Order 11 Rule 7 C.P.C . and also barred under Specific Relief Act . Plaint contains various pleas which are unnecessary, scandalous and frivolous and likely to prejudice, embarrass and delay fair trial of the suit. Pleas taken therein amount to abuse of the process of Court, as such liable to be struck off under Order 6 Rule 16 C.P.C . Plaintiff is not entitled to any relief, hence suit is liable to be dismissed with exemplary costs.
 
Replication 22. 	Replication dated 19.04.1995, paper no. 66-Ka was also filed by plaintiff. It is stated therein that plaintiff was installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 07.12.1973 and is performing religious duties, functions, obligations as provided in 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan', books of command prescribed by Adi Guru Shankaracharya for installation and functioning of Shankaracharyas of four Peeths established and founded by him in four corners of India. Plaintiff has full and absolute right to perform such duties having been installed on 07.12.1973. He has been recognized as such by rest three Shankaracharyas of Sharda Peeth, Goveradhan Peeth and Shringeri Peeth. Besides, Sanyasis, Pandits, Sadhus, Grahisthas and various religious Heads have also recognized and acclaimed plaintiff as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath, Jyotishpeeth, KVP vide its letter dated 12.09.1973, "B.D.M., V.N.S." vide letter dated 22.10.1973, Shringeri Peeth vide letter dated 12.11.1974, Dwarika Peeth vide letter dated 07.12.1973. Other religious institutions have also recognized and appreciated installation of plaintiff as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Appellant is neither Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of said Peeth nor has been installed at any point of time. His claim to have been installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is wholly illegal, baseless and void ab initio. It is not in accordance with Rules and Regulations laid down by books of command namely 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan' etc., customs and usage of Peeth. Defendant, 'suffering with leprosy' is unfit to be installed as Shankaracharya. He has visited foreign countries, hence also unfit. He was working and serving as teacher on monthly salary, hence could not have become a 'Sanayasi' and installed as Shankaracharya. Appellant did not possess requisite qualification for being installed as Shankaracharya, as per books of commands, namely 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. Rules and Regulations contained in the aforesaid books of command are mandatory and not recommendatory. It is incorrect that a duly installed Shankaracharya of one Peeth cannot become and installed as Shankaracharya of another Peeth. Plaintiff was rightly installed as Shankaracharya of Dwarika Peeth by learned Pandits, Sadhus, Sanyasis and religious institutions. Appellant has no right or authority to challenge the same. There is prohibition that there cannot be two Shankaracharya at one Peeth. 23. 	Plaintiff further said in replication that "B.D.M., V.N.S." has power and right for installation and recognition of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth to a person who is learned Sanyasi and possesses requisite qualification laid down in the books of commands i.e. 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. All gifts, donations, offerings etc. made by worshipers, religious persons and other concerned to late Brahmanand Saraswati (Former Jagat Guru Sankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth), were in the capacity of such office and not individual, therefore, entire property vests in Peeth and not individual property of any one. Ramji alias Shantanand Saraswati was not qualified to be installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya nor he was so installed as such. No 'Will' was executed by late Brahmanand Saraswati in favour of Ramji Tripathi and others. Alleged 'Will' relied by appellant said to be executed by late Brahmanand Saraswati is forged and fictitious. It is a manufactured and manipulated document prepared by interested persons, namely Ramji Tripathi and others. Late Brahmanand Saraswati was not in sound disposing mind at the time when alleged 'Will' is said to have been executed. He was also not entitled to execute any 'Will' making line of succession to the office of Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of the Peeth. Such execution of 'Will' is foreign to spirit of Rules and Regulations laid down in books of command, namely, 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan'. Plaintiff has right to challenge the aforesaid 'Will' as forged and fictitious. Late Sri Krishna Bodhaharamji was chela of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. He was installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. He performed duties and obligations of said office and assertions contrary thereto in written statement are incorrect. Suit has been filed to protect interest of Peeth and its property from being usurped and possessed by persons having self vested interest. Plaintiff is disciple of late Swami Krishna Bodhaharamji and qualified for the office of Shankaracharya. He was installed as such on 07.12.1973. Sri Ramji Tripathi alias Shankaranand Saraswati was neither installed as Shankaracharya nor entitled to nominate or appoint Swami Vishnu Devanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya and allegations otherwise in the written statement are false and contrary to Rules and Regulations laid down in the books of commands. Swami Vishnu Devanand Saraswati was not Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth nor was so installed at any point of time. Shantanand Saraswati was also not installed as Shankaracharya, hence question of his relinquishment of office does not arise. He was not entitled to nominate or appoint Swami Vishnu Devanand as Shankaracharya. Vishnu Devanand never held the office of Shankaracharya. Appellant's claim is false, frivolous and baseless. Vishnu Devanand Saraswati expired in individual capacity and not as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He was never recognized as Shankaracharya by learned Pandits, Sanyasies etc. Alleged nomination/appointment of appellant by Vishnu Devanand is false. No 'Will' was executed by Vishnu Devanand in favour of appellant on 17.04.1989. Vishnu Devanand otherwise had no right to execute any 'Will' in favour of appellant, appointing or nominating him as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. Alleged 'Will' dated 17.04.1989 is forged and fictitious. Documents, if any, relied by appellant are all manipulated, inadmissible in evidence and void. Appellant does not possess requisite qualifications for installation as Shankaracharya. Appellant is neither duly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth nor holds or entitled to hold Danda, Chhatra, Chawar and Singhasan of the office of Shankaracharya and allegations otherwise contained in the written statement are concocted and false. Suit is neither bad for want of cause of action nor is barred by the principles of res-judicata or any other legal principle. Plaintiff has never visited any foreign country and the allegations otherwise are incorrect. Appellant has no right and authority to claim himself as duly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. He has no locus standi to put a false claim to the said office suffering several disqualifications and suit is liable to be decreed with special costs under Section 35-A of C.P.C. 
 
Amendment Application dated 01.09.2005 24. 	A detailed amendment application dated 01.09.2005 (paper No.366-Ka) was filed by plaintiff, seeking addition of several paragraphs, grounds and relief in the plaint. Trial Court vide order dated 22.12.2006 rejected substantial proposed amendments and instead allowed it partially. Operative part of the order reads as under:- (English translation by Court)
 
 
 
Additional written statement 25.	Pursuant to partial amendment allowed by Court below, an additional written statement dated 03.01.2007 was filed stating that appellant was duly and validly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth on 14th and 15th November 1989, after due ceremony at Allahabad and has come into possession over Danda, Chatra, Chanwar and Singhasan of the office of Shankaracharya of the said Peeth. Appellant is qualified to become Shankaracharya and instead plaintiff lacks qualification. Plaintiff also does not possess any degree from recognized University or institution within the territory of India and abroad. Inclusion of amended cause of action is mala fide and not maintainable. Suit as initially instituted has become infructuous after installation of appellant as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Suit is liable to be stayed under Section 10 of C.P.C. in view of earlier Suit No.1-A of 1974 filed by plaintiff and pending in the Court of Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division)-1, Room No.13, Allahabad. In earlier suit plaintiff had sought a declaration that he is Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth with effect from 07.12.1973 and has also sought for recovery of certain property of the said Peeth. The said suit is still pending. Subsequent suit is consequential to declaration sought in earlier suit, hence not maintainable and liable to be rejected or in any case deserves to be stayed till earlier suit is decided. Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is a Mourusi Math. Succession to Headship is in accordance with Guru-Shishya Parampara, whereby reigning Mahant chooses his successor from amongst, disciples of Peeth to become successor Mahant. This is evident from custom prevailing in all four Maths, established by Adi Shankaracharya. It is admitted by plaintiff that only disciples of Adi Shankaracharya are given charge of Headship of four Maths, established in four extremities in India. There is no other custom prevailing anywhere other than the custom as said above. On account of natural calamity, seat of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth remained extinct for a period of 165 years. After due perserverance of learned Sadhus, Sanyasis and with the help of British officials, the same old seat of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was resurrected with its original glory, functions and customs. It is not establishment of a new Peeth after resurrection. Declaration deed was prepared in 1941 in respect of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth only with an intention to lay down procedure for selection of Shankaracharya and confer upon him legal right to hold august seat of Shankaracharya. Guru-Shishya Parampara, stood broken due to extinction of Peeth for a considerable period of time i.e. about 165 years. Declaration of 1941 recognizes Guru-Shishya Parampara for future guidance and management of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. Declaration contained stipulation that for any extraneous reason, in future, if the seat of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is extinct and customs could not be adhered, then there may be selection of eligible person as Shankaracharya with approval of learned Sadhus and Sannaysis. Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is following strictly Guru-Shishya Parampara for appointment of successor Mahant right from the time of Bramanand Saraswati. The seat since then has never remained vacant or became extinct. Appellant has been appointed as per the customs of Math and otherwise claim set up by plaintiff is incorrect. As per customs of Mourusi Math, reigning mahant is best judge to decide, who possesses requisite qualification to become Shankaracharya. Successor of said office is religious and spiritual person and no judicial authority or Law Courts can investigate into such matters and record findings over qualifications needed for installation as Shankaracharya. Qualification of Shankaracharya is not justiciable. Suit as framed is not maintainable. As per norms of Math , laid down by Adi Shankaracharya, respective Head of Maths cannot be interfered by Courts and they are beyond jurisdiction of Courts. The management of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is being looked after, smoothly, since 1941, as per customs, and, no otherwise custom can be incorporated or imported by anyone including 'B.D.M., VNS'. Plaintiff is an arch litigant, fighting cases against all Mahants of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth for the last 50 years or more, for its personal gains and hampering sentiments of people at large in the society. Plaintiff himself is not qualified to become Shankaracharya in the light of the norms set out by customs. Valuation of the suit is very high, but it has been undervalued. 
 
Issues 26.	Trial Court formulated total 23 issues, as under:- 18-	D;k vnkdnkZ U;k;'kqYd vi;kZIr gS\ " (English Translation by Court) 27.	However, while deciding the matter, Trial Court bifurcated certain issues. Issue no. 2 was divided in two parts, as under: (English Translation by Court)
 
Evidence 28.	Plaintiff and appellant, both adduced 42 witnesses each, i.e. PW-1 to PW-42 and DW-1 to DW-42 in support of their respective case. List of plaintiff's and appellant's witnesses is appended to this judgment as Appendix-"A" and "B" respectively. Similarly plaintiff adduced total 815 documents which included copies of various documents, photographs, copies of newspapers etc., and appellant in support of his case has adduced 361 such documents which also included a large number of photographs, newspapers, magazines etc. Lists of plaintiff's and appellant's documents are also filed as Appendix-"C" and "D," respectively, to this judgment. 29.	Broadly speaking, witnesses have been produced by respective parties to prove following facts: 1. 	PW 1 Sri Shyam Sundar Vajpai, Vaidya, Meerut, 			U.P. 2. 	PW-2 Challa Laxman Shastri Purohit, Varanasi 3. 	PW 4 Sri Anand Bahadur Singh, Varanasi, 4. 	PW 5 Sri Harihar Prasad Pandey, Retired 				Teacher, Varanasi 5.	PW 6 (Plaintiff) Swami Sri Swaroopa Nand 				Saraswati,	Disciple,Brahmleen Swami 					Brahamanand Ji Saraswati 6.	PW 8 Sri Deep Narain Sharma, Varanasi 7.	PW 9 Sri Kailash Nath Dwivedi, Jalaun 8.		PW 11 Sri Ashwin Bhai Purohit and Samaj 	Sewak, Dwarika, Gujarat 9. 	PW 12 Sri T.N. Yagyanarayan, Simoga, Karnatak 10. 		PW 13 Sri Basant Anant Gadgil Sanskrit Bhasa 	Pracharak Wa Patrakar, Pune, Maharastha 11.	PW 14 Sri Janny Pellegreeni, Italy Varanasi 12.	PW 15 Sri Radhey Shyam Goswami, Jabalpur, M.P. 13.	PW 16 Sri Somnath Tiwari, Allahabad 14. 	PW 18 Sri Dilawar Khan, Narsinghpur, M.P. 15.	PW 19 Sri Gauri Shankar Tiwari, Sivani, M.P. 16.	PW 20 Sri C.V. Giridhar Shastri, Teacher, Manglur, Karnatak, 17.	PW 21 Sri Balram Pandey, Varanasi. 18.	PW 22 Bramchari Sri Subuddhanand Sishya Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Dharmopadeshak, Narsingpur, M.P. 19.	PW 23 Sri Nijanand Brahamchari Sishya Pujypad Swami Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Sri Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Dharmopadeshak, Jabalpur, M.P. 20.	PW 24 Agni Peethadheswar Acharya Mahamandleshwar Brahmarshi Sri Ram Krishnanand Sishya Swami Swroopanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Panch Agni Peeth Amarkantak, Anooppur, M.P. 21.	PW 25 Sri Kaiwalyanand Brahmchari Dharmopadeshak, Pashchim Singhbhumi, Jharkhand 22.	PW 26 Sri Aacharya Jitendra, Viranasi 23.	PW 27 Brahmachari Sri Turiyanand Sishya Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Badrika Ashram, Mankameshwar, Allahabad 24.	PW 32 Sri Nand Kishore Nautiyal Sampadak Nootan Savera, West Mumbai 25.	PW 34 Dr. Sri Ganesh Dutt Shastri Teachar Varanasi 26.	PW 35 Sri Rajendra Prasad Dwivedi Shastri, Purohit, Narsinghpur, M.P. 27.	PW 39 Badri Math Peethadeshwar Swami Hari Narayananand Ji Sansthapkak Mahamantri Bharat Sadhu Samaj Sishya Bramhaleen Dwarkinand Ji Maharaj, Dharmopadeshak, Patna, Bihar 28.	PW 40 Mahant Sri Prakash Puri, Guru Kapil Mahamuni Ji, Mahakal Mandir, Ujjain, M.P. 29.	PW 41 Sri Shanker Dev Chaitanya Bramchari Sishya Swami Dr. Laxman Chaitnya Bramchari, Dewas, M.P.
 
	
 
(II)	To prove authenticity and mandatory character of Rules for installation, qualification, eligibility and procedure for installation as 'Shankaracharya' with reference to Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan. 1. 	PW 3 Sri Kameshwar Nath Mishra, Teacher, 	Varanasi 2. 	PW 4 Sri Anand Bahadur Singh, Varanasi, 3. 	PW 10 Swami Sri Ishwaranand Tirth, Sishya, 	Pujya Swami 	Pragyanand Tirth IswarMath 	Mumuchh Bhawan, Varanas 4. 	PW 13 Sri Basant Anant Gadgil Sanskrit Bhasa 			Pracharak Wa Patrakar, Pune, Maharastha 5.	PW 17 Swami Sri Vishuddhanand Saraswati, 				Sishya Parbrahma Swroop Brahmleen Swami 				Prakashanand Saraswati, Varanasi. 6.	PW 20 Sri C.V. Giridhar Shastri, Teacher 	Manglur, Karnatak
 
(III)	Experts in religious matters: 1.	PW 42 Sri Madan Mohan Kakkar Handwriting and Fingerprint expert 
 

 
 (V) Photographers and Videographers. 1. PW 36 Sri Kamla Pati Tiwari, Jabalpur, M.P.. 2. 	PW 37 Sri Satya Narain, Photographer and Videographer, Simoga 	Karnataka 30.	 Besides some witnesses deposed on specific aspects: (III) About Will dated 17.04.1989: 1.	DW 1 Swami Sri Vimaldevashram, Shishya, Mahant Swami Kailash Bhusanashram Ji Maharaj, Machhali Bandar Math, Kashi Adhyaksh, Akhil Bhartiya Dandi Sanyasi, Prabandhan Samiti, 2.	DW 2 Sri Tej Narain Chaturvedi, Varanasi 3.	DW 3 Swami Sri Vasudevanand Saraswati, Shishya Sri Swami Shantanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj (defendant-appellant) 4.	DW 4 Sri Rang Nath Dubey, Allahabad 5.	DW 5 Sri Sriniwas Pathak, Allahabad 6.	DW 6 Sri Arun Kumar Tripathi, Dharma Pracharak, Pratapgarh 7.	DW 7 Sri Pt. Gokul Chandra Goswami, Mathura 8.	DW 8 Sri Santosh Kumar Shukla, Pratapgarh 9.	DW 9 Sri Tilakdhari Shukla, Ambedkar Nagar 10.	DW 10 Sri Vimal Prakash Srivastava, Allahabad 11.	DW 11 Sri Radhey Shyam Malviya, Allahabad 12.	DW 12 Sri Roy Vishwanath Singh Rai Bareli 13.	DW 13 Sri Ram Abhilash Pandey, Allahabad 14.	DW 14 Sri Purshottam Lal, Allahabad 15.	DW 15 Sri Lal Mani Tiwari, Allahabad 16.	DW 16 Sri Pandit Radhey Raman Pandey, Allahabad 17.	DW 17 Sri Balkrishna Pandey, Allahabad 18.	DW 18 Sri Hariram Chaurasiya, Allahabad 19.	DW 20 Sri Bindu Ram Singla, Sangroor, Panjab 20.	DW 21 Sri Achrya Pandit Vinod Kumar Tripathi, Allahabad 21.	DW 22 Sri Indu Prakash Upadhya, Dasnam Sanyas Ashram, Bhupatiwala, Haridwar, Uttarakhand 22.	DW 23 Sri Vidya Bhushan Shukla, Allahabad 23.	DW 24 Sri Tiloki Nath Agrawal, Katni, M.P. 24.	DW 25 Sri Satya Narayan Tripathi, Allahabad 25.	DW 26 Sri Triveni Mishra, Allahabad, 26.	DW 27 Sri Rishi Prasad Sati Chamoli, Uttarakhand 27.	DW 28 Sri Srimohan Dubey, Allahabad 28.	DW 29 Sri Ramji Tripathi, Kanpur 29.	DW 30 Sri Omkar Nath Tripathi, Allahabad 30.	DW 31 Urdhwramnaya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Narendranand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Sishya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Bramhaleen Swami Shankaracharya Sarswati Ji Maharaj, Varanasi 31.	DW 32 Sri Swami Yogeswaranand Giri Sishya Sri Mahant Siddheswar Giri Ji Maharaj Purva Mantri Sri Panchdashnaam Juna Akhara Bara Hanumanghat, Varanasi 32.	DW 33 Sri Daya Shankar Pandey Dehradoon, Uttarakhand 33.	DW 34 Sri Jagdish Prasad Misra, Lucknow 34.	DW 35 Sri Mahendra Narayan Dwivedi, Allahabad 35.	DW 36 Anant Vibhushit Sri Takshak Tirthpeeth- adishwar Ravishankar Ji Maharaj Sishya Sri Takshak Tirth Peethadishwar Sri Ram Kumar Maharaj, Allahabad 36.	DW 38 Sri Mahant Manoharpuri, Shisya Sabhapati Sri Mahant Mangalpuri Ji Maharaj Sri Panchdasnaam Juna Akhara Indore, M.P. 37.	DW 39 Sri Shailendra Kumar Tiwari, Amethi 38. DW 41 Sri Triveni Prasad Pandey, Rewa, M.P.
 
(II) Experts in religious matters. 1. DW 1 Swami Sri Vimaldevashram, Shishya, Mahant 		 Swami Kailash Bhusanashram Ji Maharaj, Machhali 	 Bandar Math, Kashi Adhyaksh, Akhil Bhartiya Dandi 	 	 Sanyasi, Prabandhan Samiti. 2. DW 31 Urdhwramnaya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Narendranand Saraswati Ji Maharaj 3. 	DW 32 Sri Swami Yogeswaranand Giri Sishya Sri Mahant Siddheswar Giri Ji Maharaj Purva Mantri Sri Panchdashnaam Juna Akhara Bara Hanumanghat, Varanasi 4.	DW 36 Anant Vibhushit Sri Takshak Tirthpeeth- adishwar Ravishankar Ji Maharaj Sishya Sri Takshak Tirth Peethadishwar Sri Ram Kumar Maharaj, Allahabad 4.	DW 37 Sri Bhramchari Atmanand Sishya Jyotishpeethadhishwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Allahabad
 

 
	(III) About disqualification of plaintiff: Amendment of Memo of Appeal 35.	Initially, when appellant instituted this appeal, challenge to judgment and decree of Court below was founded on 50 grounds but subsequently pursuant to an amendment, allowed vide order dated 04.11.2015, 97 grounds were added, making total 147 (50+97) grounds. 
 
Misc. Proceeding during trial of Suit 36.	Some of the interlocutory stages before Trial Court, resulting in passing of certain orders, relevant to be noticed here, are as under.
 
Objection/Preliminary Issue 37.	Even before framing of issues, appellant raised a preliminary issue regarding jurisdiction; that suit has rendered infructuous after installation of appellant hence, barred by law and not maintainable. An application was filed for considering this aspect as preliminary issue, but it was rejected by Additional Civil Judge (Junior Division) on 27.08.1998. Defendant-appellant preferred a revision which was rejected by District Judge on 28.09.1998, holding that order was interlocutory in nature hence revision was not maintainable. It also observed that issues are yet to be framed and question of jurisdiction after framing of issues would be decided as preliminary issues before proceeding with the suit. 38.	Thereafter on 12.10.1998, issues 1 to 16 were framed. Issues 17 and 18 were framed on 30.08.2005 and issues 19 and 20 were framed on 16.05.2007. On 14.04.2011, issues 2 to 8 were reframed as issues 2 to 6, issues 19 and 20 were dropped and issue 21 became issue 7. On 13.01.2015 issues were serialized.
 
Stay under Section 10 CPC 39.	On 17.10.1998 an application under Section 10 CPC (Paper no. 149-C) was filed, seeking stay of Original Suit No.513 of 1989 on the ground that Original Suit No.1-A of 1974, filed by plaintiff, in which a similar dispute was raised, is still pending. While the aforesaid application was pending, another application (Paper no. 205-C) was filed requesting for hearing of preliminary issues. This application (Paper no.205-C) was decided vide order dated 27.08.2005. Another application (Paper no.215-C) dated 29.08.2005 was filed, requesting for disposal of application (paper no.149-C. (application under Section 10 CPC) On 30.08.2005 application (Paper no. 215-C) was decided, holding that earlier also, an application for same relief was filed and decided on 24.08.2005, hence application (Paper no. 215-C) is rejected. On 18.07.2007, application (Paper no. 149C), was rejected on the ground that earlier a similar application was rejected by earlier Presiding Officer of Court. 
 
Interim order 40.	During pendency of suit, Trial Court granted interim injunction in favour of plaintiff on 22.02.1999. Thereagainst, Miscellaneous Appeal No. 41 of 1999 was dismissed on 27.04.2000 by Additional District Judge. Writ Petition No.24085 of 2000 was filed by Appellant challenging orders dated 27.04.2000 and 22.02.1999. Vide judgment dated 23.01.2004, writ petition was decided and orders dated 22.02.1999 of Trial Court and 27.04.2000 of Appellate Court were quashed. Plaintiff filed Civil Appeal No. 4612 of 2005 which was decided by Supreme Court vide judgment dated 02.08.2005, directing parties to maintain status-quo as on 22.05.2000. 41.	Plaintiff then filed a voluminous amendment application on 01.09.2006, in which specific plea of disqualification of defendant-appellant was raised giving details and a declaration was sought with regard to installation of Appellant as Jagat Guru Sankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 14/15.11.1989, as null and void. Said application was broadly rejected by Trial Court vide order dated 22.12.2006. It permitted only a few minor amendments.
 
Previous Litigation: 42.	Before proceeding to adjudicate points for determination arising in this appeal, we find it appropriate to refer a long chain of litigations followed in respect to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth between different parties, some of which have substantially been relied by both the sides in support of one or the other submissions. 43.	In order to have things straight, it would be appropriate to recapitulate earlier litigation, chronologically, as under: 44.	For the present case, a brief retrospect of earlier litigations in Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953, Original Suit No. 3 of 1954, Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 and Original Suit No. 1A of 1974 would be relevant, hence, in brief, the same are being considered hereunder. Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953 45.	Swami Shantanand filed an application under Section 372 of Indian Succession Act,1925 (hereinafter referred to as "Act 1925"), claiming succession certificate in respect of certain money lying with different Banks at Allahabad, details whereof was given at the foot of application. It was claimed that the said property was held by late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as his property. The application was registered in the Court of District Judge, Allahabad as Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953. Application contained assertions that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati left for heavenly abode on 20.05.1953 at Calcutta. He executed a 'Will' on 18.12.1952, appointing Swami Shantanand as successor and by virtue of 'Will', applicant Swami Shantanand was entitled to collect money lying with different Banks in the name of deceased. 46.	Application was opposed by Swami Swaroopanand (present plaintiff) by filing objection dated 04.08.1953. Objector stated that application for grant of succession certificate filed by Swami Shantanand is unauthorized, against law and not maintainable; 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was neither a genuine document nor deceased could have executed such 'Will'; Objector is a senior devoted disciple of deceased; Genuineness and validity of 'Will' not only was denied but it was also pleaded that it must have been obtained by undue influence of applicant Swami Shantanand; Property details in the application pertains to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, a public endowment Trust of religious and charitable nature; Deceased Swami Brahamanand being Mahant, was in the capacity of Manager of Trust, had no power to dispose of such property and alleged "Will" is inoperative in regard to movable and immovable property of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth; property mentioned in the "Will" was not personal property of deceased, hence he had no competence to execute 'Will' in regard thereto; "Will" relied by applicant is illegal, invalid and unenforceable, hence cannot create any right in favour of applicant; applicant is not a properly initiated disciple of deceased; He is a natural relation of late Brahmanand Saraswati of his Purvashram and had been living with him since about a year before his death; he is not a Sanyasi and does not possess qualification required for being "Shankaracharya" of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth: Applicant can neither be successor nor heir of deceased and application is unauthorized; objector and some other disciples are duly initiated Chelas of deceased and objector being a senior Chela and heir of deceased, is entitled to the seat of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth; considering nature of property which is that of Trust, no application for succession certificate is maintainable; application is barred by Section 370 of Act 1925 and applicant is not entitled to certificate unless he establishes his claim in a competent Court of law or gets probate of alleged 'Will'; Applicant should have mentioned about disciples of late Brahmanand Saraswati so that notices could have been issued to such disciples and persons interested in Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth; Applicant has acted illegally by intentionally omitting names of such disciples; Applicant was not an elected Mahant of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and no Abhishek or installation ceremony, as required by custom and usage of Math was ever performed in his case and claim made by him is false; Late Brahmanand Saraswati did not leave any estate since he was not owner of property in suit or other properties, hence no succession certificate can be granted. 47.	District Judge formulated following three issues:- (emphasis added) 48.	Issue-3 was subsequently struck off by District Judge, observing that in summary proceedings it was neither necessary nor expedient to decide dispute of title and this issue should be left for determination in regular suit. He also observed that only issue required to be considered is, whether 'Will' was duly executed by late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati; it is a genuine document and represents his last will, for the reason that, if it is established to be a genuine 'Will', it would mean that the Testator looked upon applicant as a proper person to collect debt due to Testator and on the basis of said 'Will', applicant should be allowed to collect debts due to deceased. Hence, applicant was required only to establish genuineness of 'Will'. The matter was subsequently transferred to the Court of Civil Judge, Allahabad. 49.	Issues 1 and 2 relating to 'Will' were decided together vide judgment dated 12.12.1955. Court held that late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati when signed the document was in perfect senses, capable of understanding what he was doing. In this regard, Court relied on the statement of Dr. Krishan Saran Mathur, Reader in Medicine, Medical College, Agra, who deposed before Court and said that he examined late Brahmanand on 21.12.1952 at Agra, i.e. just three days after execution of "Will" and found everything normal about his memory, intelligence etc. Medical problem he had, was about breathlessness, loss of appetite and constipation etc., which had nothing to do with mental condition. Another evidence relied by Court below was statement of Dr. Raj Kishore, who claims to have examined late Swami Brahmanand on 22.11.1952 at Delhi and after 3-4 weeks at Agra also. Third statement was of Dr. Dubey, Lecturer in Medical College, Agra and a Physician in Sarojni Naidau Hospital, Agra. In absence of any otherwise evidence led by Objector, Court believed statements of medical experts. Objector examined one Swami Bhagwatanand who stated that he had no knowledge whether any "Will" was executed or not. Another witness Swami Govindanand stated that he did not hear about execution of 'Will' from Testator, but after execution, Testator told him that a 'Will' was got executed under pressure when he was ill. Both these witnesses were examined on Commission at Varanasi. Court also relied on the statements of attesting witnesses i.e. Rameshwar Prasad Tiwari and Shyam Narain Gupta and also the author Sri Krishna Gopal Chaudhary, Advocate, to establish that 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was duly executed by Swami Brahmanand, after understanding its implications, and, he was in sound mental condition at that time, he was a capable Testator and, therefore, document was accepted as genuine. No evidence was adduced to show that 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was not the last 'Will', hence it was taken as the last 'Will' of Testator. The objection with regard to "undue influence" could not be proved. Court also observed that after death of Swami Brahmanand, an interim committee was formed for management of property and affairs of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Bal Krishna Mishra was the Secretary of Committee, who deposed as PW-3. He also said that "Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati" was President of the said Committee and Govindanand, a witness examined by Swami Swroopanand was one of the members of Committee. Proceedings dated 22.05.1953 show that Interim Committee under Presidentship of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati passed a resolution that last "Will" of late Swami Brahmanand should be taken out and be obtained from the Court of District Judge. Proceedings dated 07.06.1953 show that a certified copy of 'Will' was obtained from Allahabad and produced before Committee. 'Will' was read over to Committee and it was resolved that it should be published in Pandit Sabha and arrangement should be made for installation of successor. This meeting was presided by Swami Swroopanand. Thus it is evident that Swami Swroopanand and other disciples of Swami Brahmanand knew well about "Will" executed by Swami Brahmanand which was kept at Allahabad and a copy whereof was brought from Allahabad and contents thereof were made known to all of them. There is nothing on record to show that any of the Objectors ever took any exception to the "Will" or raised any objection that it was not executed by late Swami Brahmanand and is not a genuine document. Subsequent objection is nothing but an afterthought. Court ultimately accepted "Will" dated 18.12.1952 having been executed by late Swami Brahmanand and duly attested. As a result thereof, Court passed an order to issue "succession certificate" to applicant, Swami Shantanand, in respect of property detailed in the application, vide judgment dated 12.12.1955. 50.	We are also informed that against judgment dated 12.12.1955, Swami Swaroopanand (plaintiff in present proceedings) filed FAFO 20 of 1956 in this Court which was dismissed on 31.07.1959. Hence, judgment and order dated 12.12.1955 attained finality. 
 
Suit 3 of 1954 51.	Original Suit No. 3 of 1954 was filed under Section 92 , CPC by four persons, namely, Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati, Nagesh Upadhyay, Mahadev Shastri and Sudarshan Lal Bajpai, impleading Ramji Tripathi (subsequently called as Swami Shantanand Saraswati) as sole defendant. It was filed after obtaining consent of Advocate General. Following reliefs were sought: 52.	It was pleaded that Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth remained extinct for about 150 years and then in 1941, B.D.M., VNS as the body of learned men, Pandits, Sanyasis as well as Grihasthas, Princes, Rajas, and other persons and Religious Institutions, created a "Trust" vide "Trust Deed", dated 11.05.1941, executed by Sri Balkrishna Mishra, Secretary. It installed Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth on 11.05.1941. He occupied office till his death i.e. 20.05.1953. During this period, immovable property was acquired by Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth at Allahabad, Jabalpur and Chhindawara. New constructions were also made on existing property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Value of property was in Lacs. Besides, Swami Brhmanand Saraswati also acquired and possessed valuable immovable and movable property, including gold and silver utensils and articles etc. and also deposited huge sums of money in Bank in the capacity as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He mostly lived at Brahma Niwas, Alopi Bagh at Allahabad, and toured whole of Northern India frequently. He delivered lectures, gave Darshan to general public and initiated individual persons as his Chelas. He propagated Adwait Vedant Philosophy and advanced cause of Hindu Sanatan Dharam. A weekly magazine "Shankaracharya Upadesh" was published from Lucknow in his life time, concerning his teachings, tour program and others important matters. Mahesh Brahmchari was In-charge of Publicity Department of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and he was editor also of the magazine. Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand) was originally resident of District Basti. He lived with Uria Baba, a Mahatma of high repute at Vrindavan from 1945-1949. Later on he came to live for 1½ months with Swami Brahmanand Saraswati at Allahabad in 1951. He was initiated by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as his "Dandi Sanyasi Chela" in 1951 itself. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, while travelling, reached Delhi on 13.11.1952 and stayed there for some time in Queen's Garden near railway station. Later on, he shifted to residence of Sri Bipin Bihari Verma, Bar at Law and Member of Parliament, residing at 7, Canning Lane, New Delhi towards the end of November, 1952. Thereafter he stayed at Agra till 24.01.1953. He then went to Varanasi. When he was staying at Agra, a "Will" was allegedly executed as last "Will" on 18.12.1952. It was deposited with District Registrar, Allahabad by Sri Dwarika Prasad Shastri, as holder of power of attorney of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Previous "Will" which were already deposited with District Registrar, Allahabad were taken back by Dwarika Prasad. Thereafter, Swami Brahmanand Saraswati went to Calcutta on 27.04.1953 and died on 20.05.1953. On 21.05.1953 remains of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati were brought at Varanasi and rituals were completed. On 22.05.1953 a meeting of disciples of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, presided by Swami Hariharanand (popularly known as Swami Karpatri Ji) was held at Varanasi. An interim Committee of disciples of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was formed to manage Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth till his last "Will" is obtained from District Judge, Allahabad and executed. The interim Committee consisted of 12 persons whereof Swami Swaroopanand was President and Pandit Bal Krishna Misra was Secretary. It also included as members, Pandit Dwarka Prasad Shastri, Ram Prasad, Mahesh, Ganga Prasad Pandey etc. On the same day, interim Committee under Presidentship of Swami Swroopanand held meeting and decided to receive "Will". It authorized Ganga Prasad Pandey to obtain "Will" from District Judge, Allahabad with the help of Rameshwar Prasad Tiwari and produce it before Committee. On 25.05.1953, "Will" dated 18.12.1952 was opened before District Registrar, Allahabad, after he got satisfied about the death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Ganga Prasad Pandey obtained a certified copy of "Will" and produced the same before committee on 07.06.1953. Committee unanimously decided that "Will" should be published and successor should be installed at the earliest. Another meeting of Committee was held on 08.06.1953, after publication of 'Will', and according to that Sri Ram Ji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati) was to be installed as Peethadhishwar of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Installation was to be observed on 12.06.1953 according to Muhurt at Kashi. On 11.06.1953, one Banwari Lal Dixit, moved an application under Section 145 Cr.P.C., which was disposed of by City Magistrate on 15.06.1953. In the said application Banwari Lal Dixit stated that Sri Shantanand Saraswati was to succeed having been nominated by Swami Brahmanand Sarasawati as successor, but it was opposed by Pandit Vidwat Mandal (Kashi Vidwat Parishad) and some other religious bodies and personalities. Even President of interim Committee, Swami Swaroopanand was against installation of Swami Shantanand and wanted that Sri Krishnabodhashram to be installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Sri Banwari Lal Dixit requested Magistrate to stop installation of Swami Shantanand, but Magistrate refused to grant any injunction, observing that dispute has to be adjudicated by Civil Court and also observed that installation ceremony must have already taken place since it was scheduled for 12.06.1953. One Suit No. 374 of 1953 was filed by Bal Brahmchari Mahesh Ji and Swami Vishwadevanand Saraswati against Swami Karpatri Ji, Swami Krishna Bodhashram and few others in the Court of Munsif (North), Lucknow, seeking permanent injunction. An application for temporary injunction was also filed seeking to restrain defendants in that case from holding a meeting on 24.07.1953 and giving reception as Shankaracharya and taking out procession and proclamation of Swami Krishnabodhashram. Interim injunction was initially granted but finally application was rejected on 01.10.1953. 53.	 In the meantime, on 11.07.1953 Swami Shantanand filed application for succession certificate, wherein Swami Swroopanand filed objection, which was registered as Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953. 54.	Plaintiff Swami Parmanand Saraswati, and three others pleaded that Swami Shantanand lacked requisite qualification of Shankaracharya as per norms laid down by Jagat Guru Adi Shankaracharya in his books Mathamanaya and Mahanushasan. It is said that after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, question arose about installation of his successor. Learned Pandits, Mahants, Brahmcharis, Sanyasis and disciples etc. initially selected a Dandi Swami Hariharan (Karpatri Ji Maharaj) but when he declined, Dandi Swami Sri Krishnabodhashram was selected and installed on 25.06.1953 at Gyanvapi, near Krishna temple, Varanasi. Installation ceremony was graced by Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth Maharaj of Sharda Peeth at Dwarka and attended by all persons, sections of Hindu religious institutions and Heads giving him their recognition by offering respect and gifts etc. on the occasion. Since installation, Swami Krishnabodhashram Ji Maharaj became Shankaracharya and is recognized by all concerned. A similar installation ceremony later on was performed at Jyotishpeeth Badrikashram. Swami Krishnabodhashram is in possession of Peeth properties. Defendant Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand) having learnt that Krishnabodhashram has been installed as Shankaracharya proclaimed himself to be Shankaracharya and successor of deceased Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, despite that he did not possess qualifications prescribed in Mathamnyya to become Shankaracharya. He obtained a 'Will' under undue influence, executed by late Swami Mahant Brahmanand Saraswati, and on the basis thereof, took possession of some movable and immovable properties of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and has committed breach of trust by misappropriating a large amount of property in various ways. 55.	It was in this background that Suit 3 of 1954 under Section 92 CPC was filed, seeking relief noted above. 56.	Suit was contested by sole defendant Ram Ji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand). He pleaded that plaintiff has no cause of action and defendant having already been installed validly is successor of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, pursuant to 'Will' executed by him and installed as Shankaracharya; allegations of misappropriation are false; and suit was liable to be rejected. 57.	Court formulated following 16 issues as under:- (emphasis added) 58.	Issues 2 and 4 were answered holding that as per admission of parties, Shankaracharya can appoint his successor who should possess requisite qualification as stated in the books "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan". Issues 5, 6 and 7 were taken together, and, Court held that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was in fit mental condition and sound mind, so as to execute "Will" dated 18.12.1952. It also held that "Will" was validly executed and there was no undue influence, hence issues 5, 6 and 7 were answered against plaintiff and in favour of defendant. However, issue 3 relating to qualification of defendant for installation as Shankaracharya was answered against him holding that he did not possess some of the necessary qualifications required for the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati could not nominate him as a successor. His appointment to the office of Shankarachaya was invalid. Issue 8 was answered holding that defendant was not validly installed as Shankaracharya, since he did not possess some of the necessary qualifications for occupying the said office, in view of the findings given in respect of issues 2 and 3. Issue 11 related to non impleadment of Swami Krishnabodhshram and was answered in affirmance, holding that suit is bad for non-joinder of Swami Krishnabodhshram inasmuch as, he was a necessary party and in his absence, issue, whether he was or could have been installed validly as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, cannot be decided. Court then proceeded to consider question 1, whether there was any cause of action to file said suit under Section 92 CPC and answered the same in favour of plaintiffs. Issue 14 related to maintainability of suit under Section 92 CPC and was answered, holding that suit, as framed, not maintainable and sanction of Advocate General was not legal for the reason that there was a legally appointed Trustee, as per averments contained in the plaint, who was not made a party and against him no relief was claimed. Issue 9 was answered against defendant holding that though he is Trustee de son tort and liable to be removed from the office of Shankaracharya and trust of Jyotishpeeth in accordance of law, but in a properly constituted suit. Issue 12 was answered holding that all suit property except those mentioned in item no. 3, 4, 6 and 7 in the list of immovable property in scheduled-A of the plaint are Trust property, belong to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Only a validly appointed Shankaracharya is entitled to own, possess and manage them in accordance with directions laid down in the "Will" of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and trust deed dated 11.05.1941, executed by Secretary of Bharat Dharam Mahamandal and to act in accordance with the directions laid down in "Mathamanya" and "Mahanushashan". 59.	Issue 10 was answered holding as under:- 60.	Issue 13 pertains to some properties and answered by holding as under:- 61.	With regard to issue 16, Court held that defendant is Trustee de son tort and has got no valid, title to the office of Shankaracharya nor entitled to get any compensatory costs under Section 35-A CPC for the reason that it has been held that he was liable to be removed from the office in a properly constituted suit. Issue 15 was answered in the light of the findings given on various issues holding that finding in respect of issue regarding maintainability of suit, having been returned against plaintiffs, suit has to be dismissed though parties had succeeded on different issues wholly or partly. Court ultimately observed that plaintiffs have fully succeeded on issues 1, 2, 3 and 9 and partly on issues 5, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 13, while defendant has fully succeeded on issues 4, 7 and 14 and partly on issues 5, 6, 8, 11, 12 and 13, but since suit has been held not maintainable as framed, it has to be dismissed. Consequently, vide judgment dated 20.10.1962 Additional District Judge, Varanasi dismissed Suit 3 of 1954 as not maintainable under Section 92 CPC. 62.	Against judgment and decree dated 20.10.1962, Swami Parmatmanand and others filed First Appeal 385 of 1962, but same was dismissed vide judgment dated 11.9.1973. Swami Parmatmanand and others filed appeal before Supreme Court being Civil Appeal No. 1589 of 1973. Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati filed an impleadment application, alleging that Swami Krishna Bodhashram died on 10.9.1973 and, therefore, he may be impleaded and permitted to prosecute appeal as 'Intervener'. Supreme Court allowed and permitted Swami Swaroopanand to prosecute the matter as 'Intervener'. Court ultimately dismissed Civil Appeal no. 1589 of 1973 vide order dated 21.8.1974 ( Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati and another Vs. Ramji Tripathi , 1974 (2) SCC 695).
 
Suit 47 of 1954 63.	Suit No. 47 of 1954 was filed in the Court of Munsif (South), Lucknow by Ram Lakhan Singh and others against Swami Shantanand Saraswati and others, seeking a declaration and permanent injunction that Swami Krishnabodhashram is Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and not Sri Shantanand and that he (Shantanand) should be restrained for proclaiming and propagating himself as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya and to restrain from using Singhasan, Chhatra, Chanwar etc. In the aforesaid suit, an application for interim injunction was also filed on 27.01.1954. Interim injunction was issued on 31.01.1954 ex-parte, since defendant did not turn-up. 
 
Suit 3 of 1963- Filed by Swami Krishna Bodhashram stood abated. Suit 36 of 1965 64.	It was filed by Swami Shantanand Saraswati in the Court of Munsif (West), Allahabad, impleading Swami Krishna Bodhashram, Karpatri alias Swami Hariharanand Saraswati and Sant Saran Vaidanti as defendants 1,2 and 3. Reliefs sought in the aforesaid suit were as under: 65.	Plaint case set up was that Adi Jagat Guru Shankaracharya founded four Maths: (1) Govardhan Math at Puri (2) Jyotirmath at Badrinath (3) Sharda Math and (4) Sringeri Math at Sungbhadra in south. He made these Maths centres of Vedantic teachings. Each Math was placed in the charge of one of his four principal disciples who were Padmapada, Hasthmalak, Sureshwar and Trotraka who were appointed as Mahants of these Maths. These Mahants were entitled to nominate one of his disciples to be Mahant after his death. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was Mahant of Jyotirmath at Badrinath. He nominated plaintiff, one of his principal disciples, to be Shankaracharya and Mahant of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, after his death. He disclosed his wishes in 'Will' executed by him. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati died on 20.5.1953. After his death, plaintiff was duly installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth in accordance with rites, rituals and customs prevalent among Sanyasis. Plaintiff applied for grant of succession certificate vide Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953, filed in the Court of District Judge, Allahabad, founded on 'Will' dated 18.12.1952, executed by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Miscellaneous case was ultimately decided by Civil Judge, Allahabad after transfer and 'Will' was approved. Hence, succession certificate was granted in favour of plaintiff. Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati contested Misc. Case 44 of 1953, claiming himself as senior Chela and heir of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. He also filed appeal in High Court against grant of succession certificate to plaintiff but the same was dismissed. In fact, Swami Karpatri Ji alias Swami Hariharanand Saraswati has set up different claimants against plaintiff and caused various suits filed in different Courts. Suit 3 of 1954 was filed under Section 92 CPC for removal of plaintiff from the office of Mahant of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth as well as for rendition of accounts but it was dismissed by Additional District Judge, Varanasi vide judgment and decree dated 20.10.1962. Appeal was filed thereagainst which is pending. Before Kumbh Mela Haridwar, Ram Lakhan Singh and others filed Suit 47 of 1954 against plaintiff in the Court of Munsif South, Lucknow, seeking injunction and restraining plaintiff from proclaiming himself as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya and using articles of decoration. An application under Order 39 Rule 2 CPC for alleged disobedience of injunction order dated 31.01.1954 was filed but the same was dismissed by Court on 10.2.1962. Plaintiff is holding office of Shankaracharya and is entitled to use decoration articles like Danda, Chhatra, Chanwar, Singhasan etc. A section of Hindus decided to observe Kumbh in February, 1965. Plaintiff was also of the opinion that Kumbh be observed in 1965 and not in 1966. Taking advantage of ensuing Kumbh, defendants started to proclaim that defendant-1 is Jyotish Peethadhishwar, i.e., Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and pamphlets were distributed at Allahabad and other places. Defendants also arranged to take out a procession on 13th as troll as on subsequent days in Magh Mela Area, proclaiming defendant-1 to be Jyotish Peethadhishwar as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya, of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Defendant-1 is neither entitled to proclaim himself as Peethadhishwar of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth nor entitled to use Chhatra, Chanwar etc. Plaintiff is entitled to get defendants restrained from proclaiming defendant-1 as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, hence the suit. 66.	Suit was contested by Swami Krishnabodhashram and other defendants by filing their combined written statement dated August 1965, though written statement was signed by defendant-2 on behalf of all defendants. He denied that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was Mahant of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth for the reason that Peeth does not have any Mahant. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was Aacharya and Head of Math. Death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati on 20.05.1955 was admitted but other averments were denied. It was pleaded that defendant-1 rightly was proclaimed by public as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and contrary averments were denied. In additional pleas, defendants pleaded that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati did not nominate or constitute plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, no 'Will' was executed in favour of plaintiff; Plaintiff was never installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth; Swami Brahmanand Saraswati had no right to nominate his successor; even if he had a right, plaintiff was not such a person who fulfilled requirements of Shankaracharya as laid down in the verses of Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan which were prescribed by Adi Jagat Guru Shankaracharya and contains Rules and Regulations governing four Maths established by him, i.e., Jyotirmath near Badrinath in Pauri Garhwal in North; Sharda Math in Gujarat; Sringeri Math in South India and Goverdhan Math at Puri. In Suit-3 of 1954, Court recorded findings against plaintiff that he did not possess some of necessary qualifications of Shankaracharya of Jyotirpeeth and his appointment to said office was invalid. However, suit was dismissed on technical ground that defendant-1 was not made party. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was suffering from sleeplessness and other ailments from long time and did not enjoy sound disposing mind and was not in a fit state of mind or body to execute alleged 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 under which plaintiff is claiming his right to be successor in the office and Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was never executed by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. It was not signed at all by him, who was not in a sound disposing mind nor in a fit mental and physical condition to execute it. He was too feeble and ill and was not capable to understand contents of 'Will' and the 'Will' does not represent his mind. The 'Will' was brought about by undue influence and importunity of plaintiff, who was a relation of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and might have exercised that influence himself as well as through one Mahesh Brahmchari, who was Private Secretary and a man of great confidence of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. 'Will' was a forged document and has no legal effect. On the death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, a question arose about appointment of successor of Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Learned Pandits, Mahants, Mandelshwars, Sanyasis and most of disciples of late Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Brahmanand Saraswati selected and duly installed defendant-1, who had been a Sanyasi for the last about 40 years, as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirpeeth, on 25.06.1963 with all religious ceremonies at Gyanvapi near famous temple of Vishwanathji of Varanasi. Shankaracharya Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Tirth of Sharda Peeth at Dwarika attended the said installation of defendant-1 and since then he is functioning as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and is being recognized as such. After instlallation at Varanasi, defendant-1 went to Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and there he was again installed to Peeth. He began to live there and got under his possession the properties of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Plaintiff was not duly installed as Shankaracharya on 12.06.1953 as claimed by him. No installation ceremony ever took place. Plaintiff even otherwise did not possess qualification for the said office. No religious ceremony was ever performed for installation of plaintiff. Original Suit 3 of 1954 was dismissed by District Judge, Varanasi whereagainst First Appeal No. 365 of 1962 was filed and during pendency of the said appeal, succession certificate granted, stood in the name of Registrar, High Court, Allahabad, under orders of Court. Plaintiff could not have withdrawn any money except with permission of Court. Plaintiff also filed a representative suit 9 of 1954 in the Court of Civil Judge, Allahabad through Swami Magnanand and others by impleading Swami Krishna Bodhashram as defendant, seeking injunction restraining defendants from setting himself as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Said suit was dismissed with costs in the absence of plaintiffs. Another suit was filed by Sri Mahesh Ji at the instance of plaintiff, a close associate, being Original Suit No. 374 of 1953 in the Court of Munsif North, Lucknow for obtaining an ad interim injunction against Swami Krishna Bodhashram and also from holding any meeting on 24.7.1953 so as to give a reception to Swami Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya and taking procession. Plaintiff Sri Mahesh failed to get interim injunction and ultimately Original Suit 374 of 1953 was also dismissed. Defendant-1, since his installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 25.6.1953, has been occupying office and has perfected his title and right by way of adverse possession. Moreover, defendant-1 is recognized by all, hence plaintiff is not entitled to challenge the just claim of defendant-1. Defendants 2 and 3 also recognized defendant-1 as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Allegation of setting up persons to file various cases is denied. In Suit-47 of 1954 filed by Ram Lakhan against plaintiff, an injunction order was passed on 30.1.1954 restraining plaintiff from proclaiming himself as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya and using articles of decoration etc. Said injunction continued till 16.8.1962. Advice and opinion for observing Kumbh in 1965 was actually tendered by defendant-1 as Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth, Dwarika, Shankaracharya of Govardhan Peeth at Puri and Shankaracharya of Sringeri Peeth of Mysore as well as other learned Pandits. Plaintiff has possessed some property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth wrongfully and making wrongful gain therefrom. Suit is barred under Section 10 CPC and even otherwise it has rendered infructuous. 67.	Trial Court in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, framed eight issues as under; (emphasis added) 68.	Court of Vth Temporary Civil and Sessions Judge, Allahabad presided by Sri B.P. Shukla decided Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 by a detailed judgment dated 15.1.1970. 69.	Issues-1 and 2 were taken together by Court. It traced history of institution of Math as described in Sammantha Pandara v. Sellappa Chetti I.L.R, 2 Mad. 175. Adi Shankaracharya established four Maths, which are as under : Poorvamanyaya : Paschimanyaya: Uttaramanyaya : Dakshinamanya : 70.	Sri Trotokacharya was the first Shankaracharya appointed by Adi Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. In all, forty Acharyas had occupied this Peeth, first being Acharya Trotak and last Sri Ram Krishna Teerth Swami, who left this universe in Vikram Samvat 1853 (1796 AD). Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth seat remained unoccupied for about 165 years. Thereafter, B.D.M., VNS with support of large section of Hindus, selected and installed Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. A declaration of trust dated 11.05.1941 was also written down. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati died on 20.05.1953 at Calcutta. After his death a serious dispute regarding succession cropped up, causing several litigation in Courts. Shantanand Saraswati claimed office on the strength of Will dated 18.12.1952. Defendant Krishna Bodhashram and others disputed it on the ground that Brahmanand Saraswati had no power to nominate his successor. 71. Court after examining earlier litigation and other record as well as evidence, ultimately held that Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth had a right to nominate his successor and otherwise contention advanced by defendant was not correct. In recording aforesaid findings, Court relied on statement of DW-2, Sri Abhinav Sachidanand Tirth Ji, Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Dwarka Peeth, Sharda, who said that it is always better if Shankaracharya himself installs or nominates his disciple in the office and this power of nomination, Shankaracharya possesses. It recorded finding as under : (emphasis added) 72.	Then Court examined genuineness of 'Will' in respect whereto scribe Sri Krishna Gopal Chowdhary, Advocate of Etawah was examined as PW-17. Attesting witness PW-13 Shyam Narain Gupta and PW-6 Rameshwar Prasad Tiwari were also examined. Court ultimately recorded findings by observing: (emphasis added) 73.	Consequently, Court answered issues 1 and 2 both in favour of plaintiff and against defendants. 74.	Then issue 3 was taken and it was also decided in favour of plaintiff. Court held: 75.	Issue-4 pertained to requisite qualifications of Shankaracharya, whether possessed by plaintiff or not. Learned Judge observed that directions of Adi Shankaracharya represented ideal qualifications of successor of Shankaracharya. In his view, these directions are recommendatory and can not be said to be mandatory. For this purpose, he relied on observations of B.K.Mukherjee in his "Law of Endowment" at page 302 that the standards has much deteriorated in modern times, high philosophic knowledge or spirituality is seldom to be met with institutions, stress is now primarily laid on the observations of the rites and tenets of particular sect for the use of benefit of which the Mutt is established. Court held that due performance of rites is an integral part of teachings of Adi Shankaracharya and referred to certain verses on the authority of Guru. Court also held that decision of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati regarding plaintiff being successor of Peeth has to be upheld. In this regard, Trial Court also relied on the judgment of Patna High Court in Mahant Girjanand Bhagat Vs. Bhagwan Bhagat and others AIR 1967 (Patna) 101. It says that scope of review in religious matters is limited. It said: (emphasis added) 76.	After examining evidence on record, Court said: (emphasis added) 77.	Answering issue-4 in favour of plaintiff Swami Shantanand Saraswati, ultimate conclusion recorded by Court reads as under : 78.	Thereafter, Court proceeded to decide issue-5 relating to installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. It held that though ceremony was performed on 25.06.1953 for installation of Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya but it did not confer any legal title upon him for the reason that the then Shankaracharya Swami Shantanand Saraswati was already installed on 12.06.1953 on the strength of 'Will' of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and when office was already filled up, ceremony of 25.06.1953 can not be foundation for acquisition of title of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth by Krishna Bodhashram. Further, since plaintiff was already in possession of the office in the capacity of Shankaracharya, there was no room for defendant Swami Krishna Bodhashram for characterizing as 'Shankaracharya' by adverse possession as pleaded in written statement. It also observed that Pandit Sabha could not sit in appeal over the judgment of respondent Brahmanand Saraswati about nomination of his disciple Shantanand Saraswati as successor nominee no.1. It pointed out that fluctuating body of Pandit Sabha consisting of a few persons can not be considered to be a legal authority to determine the question and upset decision of late Jagatguru. Mathamnaya is silent on the point, who is to select Successor. Taking clue from the judgment in suit 3 of 1954, Court said, if the line of disciple is extinct, Mahamandal has a right to nominate. Once a Guru has found Adhikari/Uttaradhikari, if fluctuating body of Pandits of various places in India possess authority to select another person of their choice, it will create a chaos in utter disregard to the wishes of previous occupant. A person validly appointed has a right to continue till actually removed. General public has power to elect a person only when the line of disciple was extinct and only then they could appoint a highly qualified person according to books of commands. No evidence could be led that entire line of disciple of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati had extinct. A non-disciple like Swami Krishna Bodhashram could not have been appointed as Shankaracharya in preference to a disciple. It, therefore, answered issue-5 against defendant-1 holding that claim of Swami Krishna Bodhashram to the office of Shankaracharya by way of adverse possession is unsustainable. 79.	Issue-6 was already considered as preliminary issue and answered against defendant. 80.	Thereafter, issues-7 and 8 were taken together and it was held that plaintiff had right to administer endowment being Head of common spiritual organization, formerly headed by his Guru Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. It also held that unless line of disciples is extinct, Swami Krishna Bodhashram could not claim the said office. It accordingly, decreed the suit and passed following order : 81.	Defendants brought the matter in appeal being Civil Appeal No.59 of 1970 in the Court of District Judge, Allahabad. During pendency of appeal, Swami Krishna Bodhashram (defendant appellant no.1) died on 10.09.1973 and there was no substitution. Plaintiff respondent, Swami Shantanand Sawaswati, moved an application that appeal has abated and referred to Order 22 Rule 1 C.P.C . This application, was contested by remaining appellants. Therefore, a detailed order dated 29.08.1982 was passed by District Judge, Allahabad, deciding that appeal abated as a whole and hence, let it be consigned to record. The order passed by District Judge, Allahabad run in 21 paragraphs. It has observed that dispute was between plaintiff and defendant-1 who was also claiming actual right of having been installed in the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 25.06.1953 and has died. Therefore, other defendants have no right to sue and right to appeal also does not survive, hence appeal must abate as a whole. Regarding non substitution, remaining defendant-appellants 2 and 3 contended that office of Mahant is elective and as such Mahant who would succeed from Swami Krishna Bodhashram cannot be said to be a legal representative, hence there is no question of substitution. District Judge held that this argument supports the inference that on the death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram Saraswati, right to sue did not survive and subsequent Mahants or anyone else also cannot claim substitution on his behalf. Surviving appellants namely, Karpatriji alias Swami Hariharanand as also Sant Saran Vaidanti cannot continue appeal for they had no cause of action left for them to continue appeal. The only averment against them in the plaint was that they also proclaimed Swami Krishna Bodhashram to be Mahant of the Math. Therefore, after death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram question of surviving appellants declaring them to be Mahant of the said Math and supporting their claim does not arise. It held in para 18 to 21 of the judgment as under: 82.	This suit was filed by Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati vide plaint dated 28.06.1974 in the Court of District Judge, Seoni (M.P.) for declaration that plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati is duly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth; for directing defendant-1 Sri Ramji Tripathi (subsequently known as Swami Shantanand Saraswati) to deliver possession of property mentioned in Schedule 'A' of the plaint to him, and also a declaration that plaintiff possesses properties mentioned in Scheduled 'B' attached to the plaint. A permanent injunction was also prayed for restraining defendants from interfering with plaintiff's management of property of Peeth and in discharge of functions as Shankaracharya. 83.	There were three persons impleaded as defendants in the aforesaid suit i.e. Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati), Dwarika Prasad Shastri and Swami Vishnu Devanand Saraswati, (Chela of late Shankaracharya Swami Brahmanand Saraswati). 84. Plaint case set up therein is that several centuries ago, late Jagat Guru Adi Shankaracharya propounded theory of absolute Monism based on the authority of Upanishads. His philosophy succeeded in combating Budhism and re-establishing religion of Vedas. For the purpose of strengthening doctrine of Non-dualistic philosophy, which he preached, four Mathas as monasteries, in the four extremities of India were established by him i.e. Jyotirmath near Badrinath in Paurigarhwal (now Chamoli Garhwal) in north, Shardamath in the west in Gujrat, Shringeri Math in the South in Mysore and Gowardhan Math in the East at Puri. He placed each one of them under the charge his principal ascetic disciples. He also prescribed Rules and Regulations governing aforesaid four Mathas in booklets named 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasan' written by him. The two books written by Adi Shankaracharya contain details of territorial jurisdiction of Mathas, qualifications for appointment and also for dethroning Head of the Mathas, who was to be known as Shankaracharya of the Peeth. The primary object of establishing these Mathas was encouragement and fastening of Vedic teachings by the maintenance of a competent line of teachers imparting religious instructions to the disciples and others and trying to strengthen doctrines of Vedic Teachings so as to prevent any future precipitating of Vedic Religion being affected by philosophies foreign to it. Besides the contents of two books prescribing qualification etc., for appointment as Shankaracharya of Peethas, there are long established customs and traditions in all the four Peethas to install only highly learned Sanyasis possessed of all the qualities laid down in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan", which have been followed and observed without the least of deviations. In Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth also as per Rules and Regulations prescribed in Mathamnaya, forty one learned and competent Sanyasis having necessary qualifications laid down in the aforesaid books, were installed as Peethadhishwar of the Peeth, one after another, and they all discharged their duties and responsibilities and managed affairs of Peeth and its properties. For about 165 years Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth remained without a Head. In 1941 three Shankaracharyas of Shringeri, Sharda and Goverdhan Mathas, Rulers of various States, learned people, Sanyasis etc. with an object to restore Peeth to its pristine estate and prestige, authorized a registered institution known as B.D.M., VNS to search a Sanyasi who satisfies qualifications prescribed by "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" for being installed a Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeths. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, a great Sanyasi, was selected as Head of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth by B.D.M., VNS and was also approved by Sanyasis including three Shankaracharyas and followers of Vedic teachings. He was duly installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and assumed office accordingly. A deed of declaration of Trust was prepared by B.D.M., VNS on Baisakh Sudi 15, Samvat 1998 (11.05.1941) and made over all the land and sites of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, which was acquired together with land and Ashram at Varanasi, to Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya, in Trust, under conditions given in the deed for the benefit of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Thus entire property became property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth held by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati in Trust for fulfilment of the aims, objects and ideals of Trust. In addition to property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, contributions and donations made by devotees were also held by Trust for the same purpose. None of these properties was personal or could be treated to be property of Shankaracharya. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, discharged duties and managed affairs of Peeth with great ability with the result that Peeth greatly expanded influence over people residing in Northern India, who made generous donations of movable and immoveable properties, so that there may not be any difficulty, financial or otherwise, to the Peeth and Sanyasis attending Peeth in discharge of obligations and fulfilling the purpose for which Adi Shankaracharya had established the Peeth. These donations were in fact made to Peeth which could be used by Peethadhishwar for fulfilment of aims and objects of Peeth only. Particulars of property acquired for the Peeth as far as known to the plaintiff is given in Schedule 'A' Parts (i), (ii) and (iii). A Sanyasi who renounces the world and devotes himself to religion is not permitted to hold property in personal capacity except his clothes, Kharauns (wooden slipper) and the like. Hence whatever was received by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of Peeth, was property of Peeth and Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was only managing it as a Trustee. When "Mathamnaya" was written for managing affairs of the Peeth, 'Trust' as understood under English Law, was unknown to ancient Hindu religious world and Adi Shankaracharya also did not orient principles of Trust in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan". On 20.05.1953, Swami Brahmanand Saraswati breathed his last. A dispute arose about the appointment of successor. Defendant-1 Sri Ramji Tripathi ( Swami Shantanand Saraswati) claimed right of Headship of the Peeth on the basis of a 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 alleged to have been executed by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati in his favour. He was a close relative of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and lived with him for a number of years. He had an eye over the seat of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He started manipulation for the same even in the lifetime of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. After his death, three Shankaracharyas of different Peeth, learned Pandits, Sanyasis and followers of Vedantic teachings, considered appointment of a Sanyasi having requisite qualifications prescribed in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan". defendant-1 put forward his claim on the basis of alleged 'Will'. Said claim was rejected by three Shankaracharyas, Pandits, Sanyasis and Sadhus of Vedantic Teachings. Defendant-1 had practically received no education and until few years he was working as book binder in Gita Press, Gorakhpur (U.P.). He was also not conversant with Sanskrit language and unable to interpret and explain Vedant Philosophy and other Shastras. Alleged 'Will' was a fabricated document. Plaintiff has reason to believe that it was not executed by late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Circumstances under which its execution was alleged, made it suspicious. It was not a genuine 'Will' of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Moreover, he was not competent to make any 'Will' nor competent to nominate successor or Successors as Peethadhishwar. He did not and could not possess any property of his own. Property of Peeth held by him was in Trust and not a personal property, hence could not have been disposed of by making 'Will'. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati did not possess sound disposing mind when alleged 'Will' is said to have been executed on 18.12.1952. He was suffering from sleeplessness and other ailments for a long time preceding the date of alleged execution of 'Will'. For this reason also, 'Will' is invalid and does not have the effect of making defendant-1 Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth or clothe him with any right or title to hold and deal with property of Peeth. Defendant-1 did not possess requisite qualification for holding office of Shankaracharya. He was not validly chosen or installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and has no right or title to any part of property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. As per rules and directions laid down in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" as also customs and traditions of Peeth and directions contained in declaration given in Trust deed dated 11.05.1941, succession to the office of Shankaracharya of Peeth in question has to be approved by other three Peethas. Vidwat Parishad and Shankaracharyas of other three Peethas did not recognize alleged 'Will' propounded by defendant-1. They also found that defendant-1 did not possess necessary qualifications for holding high office of Shankaracharya. Defendant-1 did not become a duly appointed and installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. On the contrary, Vidvat Parishad selected Swami Krishna Bodhashram, a great scholar and learned in Vedas, Vedantas and Shastras to hold office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He was duly approved by Peethadhishwars of other three Peethas and installed as Peethadhishwar of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on or about 25.6.1953 and continued in office till his death, i.e. 10.09.1973. Defendant-1, taking undue advantage of saintliness of Swami Krishna Bodhashram, took possession of some of the properties of Trust and started managing it as Trustee de son tort. Looking to welfare of Peeth, late Swami Krishna Bodhashram instituted suit-3 of 1963 on 02.09.1963 in the Court of Civil Judge, Tehri Garhwal for declaration, possession and permanent injunction against defendants, impleaded in Suit No. 1A of 1974 also. The said suit was pending at preliminary stage when Suit 1A of 1974 was filed. Swami Krishna Bodhashram fell ill in September, 1973. He appointed plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati to perform duties of the seat and manage affairs of Peeth during the period of his illness. On 10.09.1973 Swami Krishna Bodhashram breathed his last at Delhi. Before his death, he proposed name of plaintiff for the seat as new Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Once again the question of appointment of Shankaracharya arose and three Shankaracharyas of different Peeths, Pandits, learned men of Kashi Vidwat Parishad, Sanyasis, various religious institutions including B.D.M., VNS and followers of the Peeths, selected and appointed plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He possessed all the qualifications prescribed in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan". Installation ceremony was held at Delhi on 07.12.1973. Shankaracharya of Sharda Peeth and Goverdhan Peeth personally offered Pattas to plaintiff. Shankaracharya of Shringeri Peeth had sent his representative who offered Patta on his behalf in the aforesaid ceremony. Sanyasis, Grahasthas, Pandits and learned scholars also participated in the ceremony. All necessary religious ceremonies were performed. After installation ceremony, a procession was taken out from Gandhi Maidan Delhi in which all the three Shankaracharyas including plaintiff participated. Procession terminated at Ajmal Khan Park of Karol Bagh and turned into a huge Sabha in which various religious institutions of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal, including followers and leaders of Jain religion, Mandleshwars, Sanyasis and Grahsthas welcomed and acclaimed plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and offered their homage. Since then, i.e. 07.12.1973 plaintiff is Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, performing duties and responsibilities as Jyotishpeethadhishwar. In para 22 of the plaint, plaintiff gave his own credentials as under: 85.	Defendant-1 who declared himself Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, possessed a considerable part of Property of Peeth, detailed in Scheduled 'A' Part (i) (iii) of plaintiff. He also visited Seoni in last week of September 1973 and in first week of October 1973. Also at Seoni, he declared himself as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. His acts and declarations have thrown a cloud on the title of plaintiff and tended to create an atmosphere of misunderstanding and confusion amongst the followers of Peeth. Defendant-1 is also laying claim over other properties of Peeth, details whereof are given in Schedule 'A' Part (ii). He has also been and is claiming property given in the Schedule 'A'. He filed an application before Naib Tehsildar, Tehsil Lakhnadan, village Sarangpur, District Seoni in Revenue Case No. 10/A-6/73-74. In this application he claims to be Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and owner of land situated in village Sarangpur, Tehsil Lakhnadon, District Seoni. Defendant-1 had previously made an application in Revenue case No. 1/A-6 of 63-64 of village Sarangpur, S. No. 411, P.C. No. 73, Tehsil Lakhnadon District Seoni before Naib Tehsildar Lakhnadon, making a similar claim. Moreover, properties namely the deposits and Government loans and certificates detailed in Scheduled 'A' part (ii) to the plaint, are at present in custody of Registrar, High Court, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh. Defendant-1 is asserting that he is also entitled to receive this property. He is making efforts to have the same delivered to him. Since defendant-1 is denying and interested to deny right and title of plaintiff, he is entitled to get a declaration from Court that he is duly appointed and installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He is also entitled to claim possession over properties of the Peeth detailed in Schedule 'A' Part (i), (ii) and (iii) and to have his possession over property of Schedule 'B' confirmed. Plaintiff is further entitled to have defendant no. 1 restrained from interfering with the possession over the property of the Peeth. Defendants-2 and 3 have also been nominated in the alleged 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 by Brahmanand Saraswati, though neither they were qualified nor he (Brahmanand Saraswati) was entitled to nominate them for the reasons mentioned in earlier part of the plaint. Hence they are also arrayed as proforma defendants. In case they do not deny plaintiff's right, no relief is claimed against them. 86.	For the purpose of cause of action and territorial jurisdiction plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, disclosed following facts in paragraphs 25 and 26 of the plaint in Original Suit No, 1-A of 1974: 87.	The aforesaid suit was transferred to Court of Civil Judge, Allahabad. 88.	Defendant-1 Ram Ji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati) filed written statement dated 30.10.1979. He denied that "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" were written by Adi Shankaracharya or that the same contained any Rules and Regulations regarding appointment and qualification for appointment of Head of Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya. He also said that the contents of books are neither mandatory nor have any binding character. It was also denied that Adi Shankaracharya had any primary object of establishing Math to maintain a competent line of teacher. "Mathamnaya" of Jyotishpeeth does not prescribe any Rules, Regulations or qualifications of Peethadhishwar of Jyotishpeeth. Qualifications of earlier Peethadhishwar of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth are also not known. Peeth remained unseated for about 165 years. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was installed as Shankaracharya thereafter. To this extent, averments contained in paragraphs 6 and 7 of plaint are admitted but rest averments are denied. It was also admitted that B.D.M., VNS by Trust deed dated 11.5.1941 made over property which B.D.M., VNS had acquired and detailed in the said deed, to Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, but it was very small. Remaining property were acquired by Shankaracharya Swami Brahmanand Saraswati himself during period of his Peethadhishwar. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati discharged all duties and managed affairs with great ability. All properties were self acquired by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. A Sanyasi can acquire property for Lok Sangrah. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati acquired property and thereafter gave a part of it to Peeth under his 'Will'. It is denied that two books contain any Rules and Regulations regarding any trust or that they are mandatory in character. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati breathed his last on 20.05.1953. Rest averments stated in para 11 are denied. The allegation that defendant-1 was keeping an eye over seat and manipulating and making efforts to acquire it, was denied. Defendant-1 is fully qualified and educated in Sanskrit and well conversant in Vedant philosophy and Shastras. He was considered fully qualified to hold office of Shankaracharya of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth being Guru of defendant-1 and he was competent person to do so. 'Will' is genuine, valid and executed by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. He was of sound disposing mind and allegations otherwise were denied. There is custom in all the Peethas of Shankaracharya that sitting Shankaracharya nominates his successor. Following the same custom, Swami Brahmanand Saraswati nominated four persons, placed defendant-1 at first place in the line of succession. Learned men of KVP had nothing to do with such appointment or installation of successor and have no say in the matter. Death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram on 10.9.1971 was admitted but rest contents of paragraph 16 were denied. Possession of property by defendant in his own right as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya was admitted and allegations otherwise were denied. Filing of suit by Swami Krishna Bodhashram for possession of Peeth and its properties was admitted and rest contents of paragraph 18 were denied. Swami Krishna Bodhashram was never Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and had no right or title to nominate anyone as Shankaracharya and, in fact, he did not do so. He himself was not duly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and was restrained by Court permanently to call himself or let other call him Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth in Original Suit 36 of 1965, decided by Civil Judge, Allahabad. Plaintiff's claim as Shankaracharya or that he could be installed as Shankaracharya, was also denied. Defendant-1 was installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 12.6.1953 and has been so recognized by public at large. He rightly asserted right to possess and protect property of Peeth. In additional pleas, defendant-1 said that Adi Shankaracharya was not and could not be author of "Mathamnaya" and 'Mahanushasan" and they do not contain Rules. It is only descriptive in nature. Shlokas quoted in the plaint do not find place in "Mathamnaya" of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Meaning ascribed to Shlokas is not correct. In any case, guidance given in "Mathamnaya" is only recommendatory and not mandatory. No direction or guidance is given in "Mathamnaya" of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Adi Shankaracharya nominated and appointed persons of his choice as Peethadhishwar and that is what has been done by Successors of different Peethas by nominating and appointing disciples as their Successors in whom they had confidence and considered most suitable. Usage and longstanding custom of all four Peethas of Shankaracharyas is that disciple nominated by ruling Shankaracharya is installed as Successor after death or retirement, as the case may be. On the death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati on 20.5.1953, defendant-1 being nominated as Successor and available for installation, left no occasion for treating Math as Uchhina (vacant) and assertion that there was situation of absence of Mathadhish is not correct. Further after installation of defendant-1 as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 12.6.1953 there was no question of installation of anyone else. Qualifications allegedly mentioned in Shlokas quoted in the plaint did not relate to any academic attainments nor can be publishable in the present age. They are not capable of assessment by Court of law. Only one's Guru- reigning Shankaracharya can assess them with authority. There cannot be any objective yardstick to measure objective qualities mentioned in the Shlokas quoted in the plaint. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati left his home at an early age of 9 years, being impregnated with feelings of detachment towards worldly affairs. He did not have the advantage of modern type of school education. Being a Sadhu by nature and a devotee, lying at the feet of his Guru, he was considered suitable and installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He discharged duties and responsibilities of the said office most efficiently till his death. He made arrangement to ensure that Math does not go into a State of desolation again for at-least four generations to come and he was able to do this by grace and blessings of his Guru. He acquired and possessed property by purchase and other modes of transfer, before and after his installation as Shankaracharya. Properties held by him are in his own rights, in addition to small property received by him under the deed dated 11.05.1941. There is no restriction provided in the deed for nomination of Successor by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati nor it would have been contained otherwise. Said deed only handed over property to head of Math who is just a custodian. Swami Brahmanand Saraswati did not accept any monetary gifts or offerings from his disciples. He did not accept anything without making proper payment and whatever acquired was from his personal resources. A Sanyasi can hold and possess personal property and deal with the same for good and welfare of mankind (Loksangrah). Adi Shankaracharya had not oriented idea of Trust as understood in English law anywhere in his writings relating to four Mathas established by him. Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was the type of institution where succession passes from Guru to Chela thorugh nomination by Guru and is a sort of "Maursi Math". He has full right to appoint his Successor Shankaracharya and there was no disability on his part in doing so. He executed his last 'Will' on 18.12.1952 of his own accord and freewill without any pressure and influence with full knowledge and in sound disposing state of mind. 'Will' was duly attested and executed. Swami Hariharanand also known as Swami Karpatriji, a disciple of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, started taking part in politics under the name and banner of Ram Rajya Parishad which was objected by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. Since Swami Karpatriji did not obey dictates of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, "Will" dated 18.12.1953 was executed to nominate Successor other than Swami Hariharanand. After death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati on 20.05.1953, the only question came up for consideration and unanimously decided, was to find out who was named as his Successor in his "Will", which was deposited with District Registrar, Allahabad in safe custody. Thereafter, proceedings were initiated for obtaining "Will" from the office of District Registrar, Allahabad. Defendant 1 was installed with due observance of procedure and ceremony befitting the occasion. Defendant-1 was neither at Kashi nor near it. He was called telegraphically for the purpose of ceremony by Sri Bal Krishna Misra, Secretary of Interim Committee and also of B.D.M., VNS. Defendant-1 was not a member of the aforesaid Interim Committee. The said Committee was constituted in a public meeting under the Presidentship of Swami Karpatriji Maharaj. Installation ceremony of defendant-1 took place at Brahmnivas, Sidh Giri Bagh, Varanasi. Defendant-1 is a Sanyasi and disciple of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. He possessed all the good qualities and learning of knowledge desirable for the office of Jagat Guru Shankaracharya. In fact, plaintiff as well as Swami Karpatriji were expecting something else than what "Will" disclosed and therefore, Karpatriji set up a parallel claim through Swami Krishna Bodhashram for his own benefit. Plaintiff had all along an eye to usurp the office of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. He has all along been abusing the process of law by undesirable actions not suited to a Sanyasi. First such action was an application filed under Section 144 Cr.P.C. to obstruct function under the "Will" i.e. installation ceremony of defendant-1 but the same failed and ceremony actually took place. Thereafter, plaintiff set up a claim to contest defendant-1 in the Succession Certificate proceedings in Misc. Case No.44 of 1953 before District Judge, Allahabad but lost vide order dated 13.12.1955 passed by Civil Judge, Allahabad. His appeal also failed in High Court, vide judgment dated 31.07.1959 in F.A.F.O. No.20 of 1956. Thereafter, succession certificate was granted in favour of defendant-1. Next proceedings were initiated under Section 92 C.P.C. which resulted in filing of suit 3 of 1954 and another suit filed by Swami Krishna Bodhashram being suit 3 of 1963. In view of suit 3 of 1963 instituted by plaintiff himself, it was pleaded that suit 1A of 1974 was not maintainable, being barred by res judicata. Plaintiff is claiming to be a representative of Swami Krishna Bodhashram , hence present suit is also barred by Order 22 Rule 9 C.P.C . KVP has no right to install Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth nor B.D.M., VNS or any particular Sadhu or group of Sadhus have any right to appoint Shankaracharya. Plaintiff is a puppet of Swami Karpatriji and has been set up to harass defendant-1. Swami Krishna Bodhashram never had possession of property of a Math. In order to set up the said controversy at rest, defendant-1 filed a Suit 36 of 1965 against Swami Krishna Bodhashram which was decreed. Suit in question, therefore, is also barred for that reason by the principles of res-judicata. Plaintiff is not possessed of the qualifications, has no right to see any declaration. His conduct and act also justify denial of any relief by Court. Defendant-1 is a Sanyasi disciple of late Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, duly qualified and nominated by last Shankaracharya, to be installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, and, even otherwise, he has full right to hold the said office and otherwise claim set up by plaintiff is not correct. Plaintiff is not in possession of property in suit i.e. property of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Defendant-1 is managing the property succeeded from Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and that of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. 89.	We are informed that Suit 1-A of 1974 is still pending. An objection raised for stay of suit in question by filing application section 10 CPC but it has not been accepted by Trial Court and it has decided otherwise. We also find that all the three defendants have already died long back and therefore for all practical purposes above Suit must have abated.
 
Arguments before this Court 90.	Learned counsel for parties addressed this Court, orally, at length and matter has been heard on various dates; for about more than 2 months. Besides, parties, as requested, were also permitted to file their written submissions and both have filed voluminous written submissions in support of their respective contentions taking more than two months' time after the judgment was reserved. A large numbers of Reference books as well as precedents were cited at the Bar and also referred in written submissions, which we propose to deal with at appropriate stage in this judgment. 91.	In brief, objections taken by Sri Goel to the correctness of judgment in appeal is based on the plea of Section 10 CPC contending that Original Suit No. 1-A of 1974 involving same matter is already sub-judice, therefore, suit in question, being subsequent, could not have proceeded and Trial Court erred in law in rejecting application of defendant-appellant to stay the suit. He further contended that suit in question rendered infructuous after installation of appellant as Shankaracharya on 14/15.11.1989, hence, was liable to be rejected but Trial Court erred in law in taking an otherwise view. He thirdly contended that issues in question relating to the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth were already adjudicated between the parties under whom plaintiff-respondent claimed his right in the instant suit inasmuch Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 was already decided finally in which 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was held valid, installation of Swami Shantanand Saraswati was also upheld and claim of Swami Krishnabodhashram was negated, hence in that view of the matter suit in question and issues raised therein are barred by principle of res-judicata and here also, Court below has erred in law. 92.	He next contended that 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 was not challenged by plaintiff and no declaration was sought within the period of limitation, hence, challenge to same was barred by limitation. It, thus, was not open to plaintiff to challenge installation of appellant as Shankaracharya. He has indirectly assailed 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 though even directly it was not permissible having become barred by limitation. He also submitted that with regard to installation of plaintiff, there was no valid evidence, and, even otherwise, there was no pleading of material facts in the plaint with regard to alleged disqualification of appellant to hold the office of Shankaracharya and for that reason itself plaint deserves to be rejected and suit ought to have been dismissed. 93.	Sri Shashi Nandan, Sri W.H. Khan, learned Senior Advocates, and Sri P.N. Mishra, Advocate, assisted by Sri Anoop Trivedi, who have argued the matter on behalf of plaintiff, not only replied the aforesaid arguments but pointed out that there are some other aspects also and advanced their arguments accordingly. 94. 	In brief, learned counsel for plaintiff argued that judgment in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 cannot be held res-judicata since appeal against judgment of Trial Court stood abated due to death of appellant, Swami Krishnabodhashram, and, hence, said judgment did not attain finality and could not have been treated as res judicata against plaintiff. With regard to disqualification and other deficiencies on the part of appellant in holding office of Shankaracharya it was urged that requisite pleadings were already available in the plaint and only sought to be detailed by amendment, hence, rejection of amendment of plaint would make no difference for the reason that such details could have been made available by adducing evidence to which there was no objection on the part of appellant and both the parties have led evidence in detail with regard to qualification, disqualification, if any, of both. The argument of appellant is without any substance. It is further pleaded that relief sought in the plaint is in two parts, on the first part an injunction is sought against the very act of installation since on the date when plaint was filed before Court below and registered, installation of appellant as Shankaracharya had not taken place but simultaneously relief sought in the plaint is wide enough to cover a situation where appellant is installed, then there is a request also to restrain him from working as Shankaracharya and to hold decorations meant for Shankaracharya, i.e., Danda, Chhatra Chanwar and Singhasan etc. It was pleaded that requisite pleadings were already available before Court below and argument with regard to absence of material facts is thoroughly misconceived. 95.	Lastly on the question of installation, it was argued that enough evidence is available on record to show valid installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and Court below has also recorded a finding in his favour which is based on evidence and nothing has been shown to be perverse or contrary to record. With regard to incompetence of appellant to hold the office of Shankaracharya, it is pointed out that qualifications are laid down in Mathamanya and Mahanusasanam, the two works of distinction, containing Rules and Regulations laid by Adi Guru Shankaracharya and fulfillment thereof is mandatory. A person who lacks such qualifications or requirements to become Shankaracharya, as provided in the said books, cannot hold Office or status of Shankaracharya, hence, appellant has rightly been injuncted by Court below vide judgment under appeal. 96.	We have heard learned counsels, perused written submissions and considered various citations and reference books relied by them. We propose to consider the same in detail with respect to respective points for determination in the light of relevant evidence, reference books and citations relied by both parties. 
 
Marking of Documents as exhibit 97.	Before proceeding further, one of the objections raised on behalf of appellant is with respect to documentary evidence. It is said that most of the documents have not been marked 'Exhibit'. Court below has not proceeded to admit document in evidence in accordance with procedure prescribed in the Rules. Therefore, here is a judgment which has been rendered on the basis of documents, not admissible in evidence, having not been marked Exhibits, hence, it is patently illegal, based on no legal evidence and, for this reason alone, judgment and decree in question deserve to be set aside. 98.	We propose to deal with this aspect of the matter since 815 documents were filed before Trial Court in evidence by plaintiff -respondent and 361 documents were filed by appellant. It is really strange that documents have not been marked 'Exhibit'. Documents, when filed were given Paper Numbers. The same paper numbers have been referred in the judgment under appeal. 99.	We do not find even any process of admission or denial of documents by other side as also process of marking of Exhibit by Court below in regard to such documents. Interestingly, we also do not find any objection on the part of either side, before Court below, with regard to admissibility of even a single document. Parties have addressed Court, it appears, on the basis of documents referring to Paper Numbers without any whisper towards objection that unless a document is exhibited and admitted in evidence, there is no question of treating it a valid evidence in the eyes of law for the purpose of deciding suit. By conduct both the parties have accepted procedure followed by Court below by treating documents filed and given paper numbers, constituting valid evidence for the purpose of deciding suit. 100.	Whether at appellate stage, such objection should be entertained or allowed to be raised by either of parties and judgment of Trial Court can be held vitiated in law for considering documents which were not exhibited by Court below, is an issue which has to be seen by this Court. If decided in favour of appellant, as per objection raised by Sri Manish Goel, it will go to the root of the matter since this Court, then would have no option but to set aside judgment and remand the matter to Court below, otherwise we can proceed to decide appeal on merits. 101.	In this regard, we find relevant provisions in C.P.C . as well as General Rules (Civil), 1957 (hereinafter referred to as "GR(C), 1957") applicable to subordinate Courts in State of U.P., with respect of the procedure to be followed in Civil Matters. 102.	Procedure of filing suits and manner in which the same are to be tried and further provisions of appeal, revision etc. are broadly governed by CPC , a statute enacted by Central Legislation. Since District Courts are subordinate to High Court and procedural aspects can also be monitored by High Court under Section 122 C.P.C., hence power has also been given to High Court to frame Rules regulating procedure of Civil Courts subject to superintendence and by such rules annul, alter or add to all or any of the rules in the first schedule which contains various provisions, divided in 52 orders. 103.	In exercise of supervisory powers under Article 227 of Constitution of India read with Section 122 CPC, GR (C), 1957 have been notified in supersession of all existing Rules on the subject. These Rules have 28 Chapters dealing with different aspects of procedure to be followed not only in trial of civil suits etc. but also tell subordinate Courts, manner of maintenance of record of various proceedings and other administrative aspects. 104.	Chapter III is one of the most important Chapter which deals with procedure of institution of suit, as to how it shall proceed. It also deals with appeals in general. Chapter III is sub-divided in nine parts, i.e., from (A) to (I). 105.	Part (A) deals with parties to the proceedings; (B) with applications and pleadings; (C) with Documents; (D) Commissions; (E) Affidavits; (F) Adjournments; (G) Hearing of suit; (H) Transfer or withdrawal of cases; and, (I) Judgment and decree. 106.	For the purpose of present matter, we are confining our discussion with respect to documents which were filed in Trial Court, as to how they would have dealt with, proceeded and exhibited for the purpose of deciding suit. Relevant rules in this regard are Rules 40 to 64 in Part C, Chapter III and the same have to be read with Order XIII CPC . 107.	Order XIII deals with production, impounding and return of documents. Rule 1 thereof as it stands today, substituted by CPC Amendment Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "Amendment Act, 1999") w.e.f. 01.07.2002. Earlier Rule 1 reads as under:- 108.	The substituted Rule 1 which is effective from 01.07.2002, reads as under: (emphasis added) 109.	This is consistent with Order VII Rule 14 in respect of documents of plaintiff and Order VIII Rule 1A in respect of documents of defendants. Both these rules have also undergone amendment by substitution and Order VII Rule 14 and Order VIII Rule 1A, as inserted by Amendment Act, 1999, read as under:- (2) Where any such documents not in the possession or power of the plaintiff, he shall, wherever possible, state in whose possession or power it is.
 
(3) A document which ought to be produced in Court by the plaintiff when the plaint is presented, or to be entered in the list to be added or annexed to the plaint but is not produced or entered accordingly, shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit.
 
(4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to document-- (a)	produced for the cross examination of the plaintiff's witnesses, or, (b)	handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory." Order VIII Rule 1A (inserted by Amendment Act, 1999)
 
"1A. Duty of defendant to produce documents upon which relief is claimed or relied upon by him.- (1) Where the defendant bases his defence upon a document or relies upon any document in his possession or power, in support of his defence or claim for set off or counter claim, he shall enter such document in a list, and shall produce it in Court when the written statement is presented by him and shall, at the same time, deliver the document and a copy thereof, to be filed with the written statement.
 
(2) Where any such document is not in the possession or power of the defendant, he shall, wherever possible, state in whose possession or power it is.
 
(3) A document which ought to be produced in Court by the defendant under this rule, but, is not so produced shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit.
 
(4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to documents-- (a) produced for the cross-examination of the plaintiff's witnesses, or (b) handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory." (emphasis added) 110. 	Order XIII Rule 1 now creates an obligation upon parties or their pleader to produce original documents on or before settlement of Issues. Order XIII Rule 2 earlier provided effect of non-production of documents but now by Amendment Act, 1999 it has been omitted. If primary evidence i.e. original document is not available and party intends to lead secondary evidence, then all conditions provided in Evidence Act have to be satisfied. Rule 3 permits a Court to reject a document at any stage of the suit which it considers irrelevant or otherwise inadmissible after recording grounds of such rejection. Rule 4 contemplates endorsement on the documents admitted in evidence and it has to be done by Court since such endorsement has to be signed or initialed by Presiding Officer of the Court. It reads as under:- and the endorsement shall be signed or Initialed by the judge. (2) Where a document so admitted is an entry in a book, account or record, and a copy thereof has been substituted for the original under the next following rule, the particulars aforesaid shall be endorsed on the copy and the endorsement thereon shall be signed or initialed by the Judge."
 
(emphasis added) 111.	Order XIII Rule 5 provides for endorsement on copies of admitted entries in books, accounts and records. Rule 6 talks of endorsement of documents rejected as inadmissible. The Rules read as under:- 112. Order XIII Rule 7 CPC provides that documents which are admitted in evidence shall form part of record of suit. The documents not admitted in evidence shall not form part of record and shall be returned to the persons respectively producing them. 113. Order XIII Rule 8 CPC empowers Court to impound a document and keep in the custody of officer of Court, if it sees sufficient cause, for such period and subject to such conditions, as Court thinks fit. 114.	Order XIII Rule 9 provides for return of admitted documents after suit is disposed of and, either time for filing appeal has expired or appeal has been disposed of. Proviso covers a situation where a document may be returned at any time earlier than the period provided hereinabove in certain conditions. Rule 10 states that Court may, of its own motion, and discretion, upon application of any of the parties to suit, send for, either from its own records or from any other Court, record of any other suit or proceeding, and inspect the same. Conditions applicable when such order is passed on the application, are contained in sub-rule 2 of Rule 10. Sub-rule 3 declares that Rule 10 shall not enable Court to use in evidence, any document which under the law of evidence would be inadmissible in suit. Rule 11 extends provisions relating to documents to all other material objects producible as evidence. 115.	In the context of Order XIII CPC , further detailed provisions have been given under GR (C), 1957. 116.	Rule 40 of GR (C), 1957 specifies the persons who may produce documents in the Court and says that it may be by parties, by persons, other than parties and on requisition issued by Court. Rule 41 imposes an obligation where the documents produced by party or his witness is in a language other than Hindi, Urdu or English and says that it shall be accompanied by a correct translation of the document in Hindi, written in Devnagri script. Such translation shall bear a certificate of party's lawyer to the effect that the translation is correct. If parties are not represented by a lawyer, Court shall have the translation certificate of any person appointed by it in this behalf at the cost of the party concerned. 117.	Rule 42 of GR (C), 1957 contemplates that parties desiring to produce any document in Court, shall, before producing it in any Court, obtain admission or denial, recorded on back of the document by the opposite party's lawyer. If opposite party is not represented by lawyer, Court shall get admission or denial by the party in its presence and may, for the purpose, examine the party. 118.	Rule 43 lays procedure of list of documents contemplated in Order VII Rule 14 and Order XIII Rule 1 CPC and says that such list of documents shall be in form (part IV-71). It further says that no document whensoever produced, shall be received unless accompanied by the said form duly filled up. In case a document is produced by a witness or person summoned to produce documents, form shall be supplied by the parties at whose instance the document is produced. It also requires that list as well as the documents shall be immediately entered in the general index. 119.	If there is any erasures or additions in the documents, other than a registered documents or certified copy, Rule 44 of GR (C), 1957 states that such document shall be accompanied by a statement clearly describing such erasure, addition or inter- alienation and signed by such party. Reference to such statement shall be made in the list form (part IV-71) with which paper is filed. 120.	Rule 45 is basically a provision for safety and convenience of perusal of documents when it is a small piece of paper or of historic value or written on both sides. It reads as under:- 121.	When a party requires production of a public record, Rule 46 says that application shall be submitted by such party accompanied by an affidavit showing how such party requiring record has satisfied itself that it is material to the suit and why a certified copy of document cannot be produced or will not serve the purpose. 122.	When a public record is ordered to be produced but its production require sanction of Head of Department, Rule 47 deals with such a situation and says as under:- 123.	Rule 48 deals with public record of different offices like Sub Registrar, Police, Municipal and District Board and Post Office and says as under:- 124.	For summoning of settlement record, procedure is prescribed in Rule 49 and reads as under:- 125.	Rule 50 deals with payment of postage fee, travelling charges and other expenses for transmission or requisition of record etc. Rule 51 says that documents received by registered post, then the registered cover shall not be destroyed but shall be attached to the file of proceedings in the case to which the document is referred. 126.	Then comes Rule 52 which says that all documents, must be received by the Court and must be dealt with in one or the other of three means i.e. (a) returned; (b) placed on record; and (c) impounded. 127.	Thereafter Rule 53 imposes a duty upon Court to inspect documents as soon as they are produced before Court. It says that documents which are proved or admitted by party against whom they are produced in evidence, shall be marked as 'exhibit' in the manner prescribed in Rule 57 and this fact shall be noted in the record. The document which are not proved or not admitted by parties against whom they are produced in Court, shall be kept in record pending proof and shall be rejected at the close of evidence, if not proved or admitted. Documents that are found to be irrelevant or otherwise inadmissible in evidence shall be rejected forthwith. There is also a note under Rule 53 stating that no document unless admitted in evidence shall be marked as an exhibit. 128.	Rule 54 of GR (C), 1957 clarifies that admission of genuineness is not to be confused with admission of truth of contents and reads as under: 129.	The expression which are to be used by parties while admitting or not admitting documents, is provided in Rule 55 and reads as under: (emphasis added) 130.	Rule 56 talks of documents filed in suits which are compromised or dismissed in default and says: 131.	Rule 57 provides the manner in which marking is to be made in documents and reads as under : Provided that a certified copy shall not be necessary where the document is written in a language other than Hindi or English, and a translation has been filed as prescribed by Rule 41.
 
(4) Every exhibit-mark shall be initialed and dated by the Judge." (emphasis added) 132.	If a number of documents of same nature are admitted than the manner in which such documents are marked, is provided in Rule 58 as under: (emphasis added) 133.	Rule 59 states that documents which are rejected as irrelevant or otherwise inadmissible under Order 13 Rule 3 CPC or not proved, unless impounded under Order 13 Rule 8 or rendered wholly void or useless by force of decree, be returned to the person producing it or to the pleader and such person or pleader shall give a receipt for same in column 4 of list (Form Part IV-71). 134.	Rules 60 and 61 of GR (C), 1957 deal with retention of impounded and certain other documents and care of impounded documents. Rule 63 talks with the manner in which documents are to be returned. Rule 64 specifically concerned with books of business and read as under: 135.	These are the provisions relating to procedure and have been designed to facilitate procedure for imparting justice. The procedural law is not to be dealt as a penal enactment and too technical construction thereof is not needed. This is what has been said by Hon'ble Vivian Bose, J in Sangram Singh vs. Election Tribunal, Kotah and another , 1955(2) SCR 1 and we quote relevant observations as under: 136.	Having said so, it also cannot be forgotten that the procedure laid down is not meant for defiance but has to be observed. Evidence is the foundation of every case since in our system of justice, disputes are decided, whether Civil or Criminal, on the basis of evidence which may be oral or documentary. Therefore, rules dealing with procedure as to how a document will become an evidence is of great importance and such procedure must be adhered. Normal requirement under Rules is that provisions relating to endorsement of document admitted in evidence should be strictly followed. The procedure of admission of a document as an evidence is not to be termed as a mere technical aspect inasmuch as evidence is basic foundation for deciding a civil or criminal case, as the case may be, and, therefore, an evidence must be exhibited strictly in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules, since that is the procedure consistent with principles of natural justice so that no party to the proceedings is taken by surprise or suffers on account of consideration of a material which was inadmissible in evidence or not proved or not admitted in evidence but still relied for deciding the matter as the same would render the judgment erroneous having relying on a material which is not admissible in evidence. There may be cases where though procedural aspects have been observed in substance and there may be some error which may not go to the root of the matter and that may not be taken by the superior Court, in the facts and circumstances of a given case, to hold judgment of lower Court as vitiated in law but normal rule is adherence to the procedure prescribed in rules so that no such occasion may arise. 137.	In the past, on different occasions and in particular in the light of facts of those cases, deviation in process of marking of evidence or admitting of documents has been allowed to stay and has not vitiated proceedings but a close scrutiny of such matters will reveal that such occasions existed due to peculiar facts of those matters. In order to avoid injustice to one or other party Courts have not held a document inadmissible at a later stage but general law is that in order to make a document, exhibit, procedure prescribed under rules should be adhered to. 138.	Even Legislature has intervened by amending Order 13 Rule 1 and now parties have to file documentary evidence in original. This is clearly with the intention to avoid any scope of filing fictitious, manufactured or otherwise vitiating documents, particularly when scientific development has made things much easier to create any kind of manipulation in a document very conveniently. Courts are under a duty that before it treat a document, evidence, it should follow the procedure strictly. Unless a document is admitted or proved as evidence and marked 'exhibit', same obviously should not be relied to decide a dispute. Marking of mere paper number and decision of a case on that basis is not correct as it leaves to guess whether case is decided on legally admissible and proved evidence or not. It may amount to render a decision on the basis of documents inadmissible in evidence. 139. In Sadik Husain Khan vs Hashim Ali Khan and others , 1916 ILR (38) All 627, Judicial Committee said: (emphasis aded) 140.	In Secretary of State vs. (Shrimati) Sarla Devi Chaudhrani, AIR 1924 Lahore 548 followed in Hari Singh vs. Firm Karam Chand-Kanshi Ram, AIR 1927 Lahore 115 and Imam-ud-Din and Anr. vs. Sri Ram Perbhu Dial, AIR 1928 Lahore 142, it was said that documents admitted on record without making endorsement prescribed by Rules cannot be regarded as having been brought on record, legally, before Court. 141. 	In Feroze Din and Ors. vs. Nawab Khan and others, AIR 1928 Lahore 432, Court said that documents should not be endorsed until they are proved. Sometimes Court may mark a document as an exhibit without having it proved. 142. In Sait Tarajee Khimchand and others vs Yelamarti Satyam alias Satteyya and others, AIR 1971 SC 1865, Court said that merely marking of an exhibit does not dispense with the proof of documents. It was followed in Sitaram vs. Ram Charan and Ors. AIR 1995 MP 134. 143. 	There are some exceptions. Where document was duly proved before a Commissioner appointed to take evidence and endorsed by him and it became part of record though Trial Court did not endorse it as required by it under Order 13 Rule 4, but for such document in Ma Fatima and others vs. Momin Bibi and others, AIR 1929 Rangoon 211, it was held that such a document would be admissible in evidence and cannot be rejected for mere failure of Trial Court to endorse as exhibit. 144. 	This Court also in Bal Mukandji Maharaj vs. Gokaran Singh and another, AIR 1956 All 124 observed that a document tendered in evidence which was also admitted by other side without objection should not be excluded merely because no exhibit mark was given to it. 145. 	In one matter, photocopies were filed and their admission in evidence was not objected by other side. Court said that any subsequent objection to admissibility of such document cannot be allowed in appeal. In R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder vs. Arulmigu Viswesaraswami and V.P. Temple and another , 2003(8) SCC 752, Court said: 146.	The above view has been followed and reiterated in Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd. vs. Surendra Oil and Dal Mills (Refineries) and others , 2010(8) SCC 423. 147. 	Construing Order 13 Rule 4 CPC in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder (supra), Court also observed: 148.	It also expressed its agreement with the decision in Roman Catholic Mission v. The State of Madras and another 1966(3) SCR 283, taking a view that a document, not admissible in evidence though brought on record, has to be excluded from consideration. The above decision has been referred to recently in Nandkishore Lalbhai Mehta vs. New Era Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. and others , 2015 SCC (9) 755. 149. In R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder (supra) and Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd. (supra) photocopies/xerox copies were relied and admitted in evidence. Since not objected by other side before Trial Court, Court did not allow an objection regarding admissibility of such documents as evidence in subsequent proceedings in appeal before Superior Court. 150. 	These rules of procedure, as already said, should be followed strictly though not in a manner so as to cause any injustice to either of party and sometimes variation therein may not affect ultimate result in rendering the judgment illegal or bad in law, provided facts in that case show that no prejudice has caused to other side as appropriate opportunity for objection was not taken. Such instances should not be a rule but an exception. In general practice, an honest and serious observance of requirement of rules is expected to be followed and Trial Court should proceed in the matter, accordingly. 151.	Having a retrospect of relevant statutory provisions, judicial precedents, practice and procedure of marking the documents as Exhibits, we are constrained to observe that Court below in the case in hand, has proceeded in a wholly irregular manner by not following various provisions relating to admission of evidence and marking of such documents as are proved and admitted in evidence, "exhibits". The documents have not been processed as provided in various statutory provisions as discussed above. Had it been a case of one or two documents, indeliberate mistake on the part of Court below could have presumed, but a wholesale defiance to the said procedure leads us to infer that Court below was ignorant of such procedure. 152.	We find it strange that Presiding Officer(s) of Trial Court is/are not well conversant with the manner and procedure in which a document must be admitted and accepted in evidence. It is difficult to conceive that a judicial officer can proceed in such a reckless and careless manner. Either such an officer can be termed as wholly ignorant of relevant statutory procedural provisions, dealing with the manner in which a suit has to be decided or one is extremely careless not to pay attention to these statutory and mandatory provisions. 	We are constrained to make above observation for the reason that recently in a large number of appeals, we have come across, similar flaw has been noticed. It gives an impression that either officers in Subordinate Courts are not being given proper training or there is something otherwise wrong on their part in not adhering to the Rules and procedure with respect to admission and marking of documents as exhibits, so as to render the same valid piece of evidence. Let our observations be communicated to all subordinate Courts. 153.	At this stage, we may also refer to some of the authorities heavily relied by Sri Manish Goel, learned counsel for appellant, in support of his submission that the judgment and decree is vitiated in law as the evidence relied was not validly admitted in accordance with procedure prescribed in the Rules. 154.	Sri Manish Goel argued that photographs without negative and paper cuttings were inadmissible evidence and Court below relying thereon has erred in law and these findings are based on documents, inadmissible in evidence and to that extent findings are based on no evidence at all. He placed reliance on Samant N. Balkrishna and another vs. George Fernandez and others , 1969(3) SCC 238; Laxmi Raj Shetty and another vs. State of Tamil Nadu , 1988(3) SCC 319; and, Quamarul Islam vs. S.K. Kanta and others , 1994 Supp.(3) SCC 5. 155.	Dispute in Samant N. Balkrishna and another vs. George Fernandez and others (supra) has arisen from an election petition wherein Sri George Fernandez was declared elected from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency of Lok Sabha in the elections held in February, 1967 which was challenged by Samant N. Balkrishna, an elector in the Constituency on various grounds including allegations of corrupt practice. Election petition was dismissed by High Court and that is how the matter reached Supreme Court. Therein certain allegations of false publication of a news item in 'Maratha' was pleaded in election petition so as to constitute corrupt practice on the part of returned candidate through its agent but a direct allegation of corrupt practice against returned candidate was sought to be added which was not approved by Supreme Court. In para 47 of the judgment, in the context of news item published in newspaper 'Maratha', Court observed as under: 156.	Court also observed that trial of an election petition is made in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure but a corrupt practice must be proved in the same way as a criminal charge is proved. An election petitioner must exclude every hypothesis except that of guilt on the part of returned candidate or his election agent. When a corrupt practice is alleged against a returned candidate through his agent, consent of returned candidate has to be proved or election petitioner must go further and prove that the result of election in so far as returned candidate is concerned, was materially affected. In para 48 of judgment, Court said that a newspaper reporting a meeting, does so as part of its own activity, and there can be no inference of consent. What was necessary, had to be pleaded and proved, that Mr. Fernandez said this and this. Newspaper reports could be taken in support but not independently. Here the plea was not taken at all and evidence was not direct but indirect. We do not find the aforesaid judgment to be of any assistance to learned counsel for appellant particularly when it has been rendered in the context of specific requirement of election laws as is pointed out by Court in para 33 of judgment, which reads as under: 157.	Court also referred to specific requirement of pleadings in statute pertaining to election, available in India, so as not to go by the otherwise law applicable in other matters. 158. Laxmi Raj Shetty and another vs. State of Tamil Nadu (supra) was a decision rendered, arising from a trial and conviction under Section 302 IPC and award of sentence of life imprisonment to convict. Sri Manish Goel, learned counsel for appellant relied on paras 20, 25 and 26 of the judgment. In an incident of robbery and murder of Manager of a Bank appellant, Laxmi Raj Shetty was convicted under Section 302 IPC with death sentence by Trial Court and under Sections 392 and 449 IPC imprisonment for seven years each. High Court confirmed death sentence and other sentence under Section 302 , 392 , 449 IPC and matter went in appeal to Supreme Court. There was no direct evidence in the matter and conviction and sentence founded on circumstantial evidence. Reliance on newspaper reports was placed by convict which was objected by State contending that unauthenticated news items in press cannot be treated to be a credible evidence for either convicting or acquitting a person in a Court of Law. Accepting argument of State, Court said that in cases where evidence is purely of circumstantial nature, facts and circumstances from which conclusion of guilt is sought to be drawn must be fully established beyond any reasonable doubt and circumstances so established should not only be consistent with the guilt of accused but they must in their effect be such as to be entirely incompatible with innocence of accused and must exclude a reasonable hypothesis with his innocence. In para 20 of the judgment, Court said: 159.	Rejecting argument advanced on behalf of convict relying on newspaper reports, in para 25 of judgment, Court said: (emphasis added) 160.	Further in para 26 of judgment, Court said: We need not burden the judgment with many citations. There is nothing on record to substantiate the facts as reported in the newspapers showing recovery of the stolen amount from the residence of appellant no. 2 at Mangalore. We have therefore no reason to discard the testimony of PW 50 and the seizure witnesses which go to establish that the amount in question was actually recovered at Madras on the 29th and the 30th as alleged." 
 
(emphasis added) 161.	The third decision relied by Sri Geol is Quamarul Islam vs. S.K. Kanta (supra). It is again a dispute arising from an election petition under R.P. Act, 1951 . Election of Quamarul Islam from 10 Gulbarga Assembly Constituency held in September, 1992 was challenged on the ground of corrupt practices. Reliance was placed on speeches allegedly made by returned candidate published in certain news papers. In para 48 of judgment Court said: (emphasis added) 162.	Aforesaid decisions, as we have already discussed, were rendered in the facts and circumstances of each case and also on provisions of Evidence Act and in the light of discussions made above we find that these authorities do not help the appellant. Moreover, findings of Court below on the issues of installation of parties in the office of Sankaracharya, as claimed, are not solely founded on newspapers and photographs and moreso parties have not even denied those documents before Court below. Now for the first time this objection is being raised before this Court in appeal, hence in view of discussion made above, we do not find it justified to reject documents, relied by Court below, by holding the same inadmissible in evidence since not marked 'exhibit', when no such objection was taken before Court below and evidence in the form of paper number has been relied by both sides. 163.	Any otherwise view would have required us not to proceed in the matter further and send the matter back to Court below for re-trial after admitting documents in accordance with procedure prescribed in law, but since, in the present case, neither parties have taken any objection in Court below during trial and on the contrary have relied on the all the documents in one or the other way, following dictum in R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder (supra) and Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd. (supra), we do not find it appropriate to allow appellant to raise this objection for the first time at appellate stage. When both the parties prosecuted the matter in Court below on the basis of these documents treating same as admissible evidence, taking into account paper numbers, in the absence of any objection on their part in Court below, we find it justified to treat it admission on the part of respective parties and, therefore, all documents are held admissible in evidence and deserve to be marked 'exhibits', if not already marked. 164.	Even otherwise, we find this objection, hyper technical, and an attempt to take an advantage at appellate stage when defendant has lost the matter before Trial Court, pleading a failure on the part of Trial Court in marking documents, Exhibits, though both parties, through their witnesses, have proved various documents filed by them in various ways. Strictly speaking, it may be said that some or all the documents have not been properly proved but still, fact remains, that witnesses of both sides have proved documents in their depositions. They have also been cross examined on such statements proving documents. Regarding admissibility of documents as evidence, no objection, whatsoever, has been taken at all. The endeavor on the part of both parties to prove their documents through their witnesses, we may elaborate, not in entirety, but to some extent so as to fortify our findings in this regard. 165.	In order to prove various photographs, on behalf of plaintiff, PW-36, Kamla Pati Tiwari, a photographer; and, PW-37, Satya Narain, a photographer and videographer, have been examined. Similarly on behalf of appellant, DW-40, Ram Niranjan Singh, a photographer, has been examined. Most witnesses were produced by both parties in support of fact that installation of respective parties actually took place as Shankaracharya on dates, they claimed, and to prove it, various Abhinandan Patras, Registers and other documents were produced. To prove those documents, most witnesses have been adduced by both sides. 166.	Some of the documents proved by plaintiff's witnesses are referred as under: 167. Similarly, witnesses of appellant also proved documents filed on his behalf, some of which are as under: 168. 	In this backdrop, we find no such substantial irregularity in the case in hand which may render the judgment vitiated in law for non marking of documents as "exhibits", and, hence, we reject objection of Sri Manish Goel in this regard. We have already passed orders in this regard directing Registry to mark documents as 'exhibits' in the presence of counsel for parties during hearing of the case subject to final result. We are giving our reasons hereat and thus have dealt with this aspect of the matter. The documents have been marked as 'exhibits'. We would refer documents, both, by paper number as well as exhibit number.
 
Points for Determination and Adjudication: 169.	Now we proceed to consider points for determination as have arisen on rival submissions and proceed to adjudicate the same. 170. The first point for determination is, position of "Shankaracharya, his antiquity, his philosophy, work carried out by him for propagating Sanatan Dharma, his influence over followers of Sanatan Dharma and position and status of Shankaracharya and his Peethas vis a vis the persons occupying those Peethas in the eyes of Hindu followers of Adi Shankaracharya's philosophy". 171. Second point for determination which we propose to discuss simultaneously is, "whether for installation of any person to head the Peethas established by Adi Guru Shankaracharya, are there any set of discipline, Rules and Regulations"? 172. Incidental to the aforesaid question, Third Point for determination would be, "whether Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan are written work containing and prescribing Regulations laying down mode, manner, eligibility and other instructions for selection and installation of an appropriate person to Head the said Peethas". 
 
About Adi Shankaracharya (a) Origin 173. In regard to origin of Adi Shankaracharya and his antiquity there are two views and difference goes to the extent of about 1200 years. One view takes us back to 476 B.C. to 507 B.C and other view relates his origin to 680 A.D. to 788 A.D. With regard to his place of birth and parents there is no noticeable difference. Interestingly, so far as this Court is concerned, both the parties agree to the history, accepting origin of Adi Shankaracharya, in and around, 500 B.C. 174. Historical work of one "Pt. Harikrishna Raturi" Former Minister of Tehri (Princely State), titled as "Garhwal ka Itihas" published in 1928 by Garhwali Press, Dehradun, second edition published in 1980 by Bhagirathi Prakashan Grih, Suman Chauk, Tehri, relied by appellant and not disputed by plaintiff, may be referred hereat. In Chapter 15 pages (128-131) learned author has given description of corresponding social deformities when Adi Shankaracharya was born and has illuminated great work done by him. Some relevant extracts thereof read as under: 175. With regard to period of origin of Adi Shankaracharya, same author, "Hari Krishna Raturi" in "Garhwal ka Itihas" (supra) has written as under: 176. The said author has also discussed about period of death of Adi Shankaracharya and difference among historians on this aspect, as under: 177. Similarly in "Amit Kal Rekha", a research work of Sri Parmeshwar Nath Mishra, Advocate published by Shankaracharya Parampara Evam Sanskrit Rakshak Parishad, Vrindavan Complex, Aruna Apartment, 4, Station Road, Liliua, Howrah, First Edition, June 2001, antiquity of Adi Shankaracharya has been traced to 507 B.C. According to the aforesaid research work, Adi Shankaracharya was born on Baishakh Shukla Panchami, Shak Samvat 2631 corresponding to 507 B.C. in Village Kaladi, District Ernukuram (now in State of Kerala) and left this world in Yudhisthir Shak Samvat 2663 corresponding to 475 B.C. 178. In Brahma Sutra Bhashya, said to have been authored by Adi Shankaracharya, there is a reference of two big cities namely, Strughn and Patliputra. The relevant "Bhrahma Sutra Bhashya" reads as under:- ^^;ks∙fi lzq?ukUeFkqjka xRok eFkqjk;k% ikVfyiq=a oztfr lks∙fi lzq?ukRikVfyiq=a ;krhfr 'kD;rs ofnrqe~A rLekr~ ^izk.kLrstlh*fr izk.klai`DrL;k/;{kL;SoSrRrst% lgpfjrs"kq Hkwrs"ooLFkkue~A**
 
vFkkZr~& tks Hkh lzq?u ls eFkqjk tkdj eFkqjk ls ikVfyiq= tkrk gS og Hkh lzq?u ls ikVfyiq= tkrk gS ,slk dgk tk ldrk gSA blfy;s ^izk.kLrstfl* blls izk.k lEc) tho dk Hkh rst lgpfjr Hkwrksa esa ;g voLFkku gSA 
 
"Whosoever having visited Mathura from Srughna and goes to Patliputra, it may be called so that he goes from Srughna to Patliputra. Therefore, 'Pranastejasi', i.e, the status of living creature, also is the same as of other similar creatures having radiance." (English translation by Court) 179. Patliputra was a very well developed city as referred by Chinese Traveler "Fahien" in his travels account, who is said to have visited India in 400-411 A.D. It is said that Pushppur was the capital of Ashoka and city has his palace and conference house. It was the biggest city of Madhya Desh. The residents were rich. Another Chinese foreign traveler "Hwen Ts'ang" came to India in 630-644 A.D. and mentioned that during his visit, Kusumpur or Patlipurta cities were virtually non-existent and only some walls were found. The reminiscence of city of Ashoka were spread in an perimeter of 14 miles, meaning thereby that Patliputra was already extinct before 630 AD. If that is so, period of Adi Shankaracharya could not be the period of 788-820 A.D., making a reference of Patliputra city in the manner as aforesaid, since that city was virtually non existent at that time. It takes the period of Adi Shankaracharya, in any case, much before 630 A.D. With regard to Strughan also, Chinese traveler "Hwen Ts'ang" has written that it was on the western bank of Yamuna River in the area of 20 Lie, but had destroyed long back. 180. In order to point out origin of Adi Shankaracharya in 400-500 BC, a reference is made to the commentary of Adi Shankaracharya on "Mandukya Upanishad" 1.2 English Translation by "Swami Gambhiranand" Published by Advait Ashram, Kolkata. Therein "Karshapana" has been mentioned as currency in use of his time, relevant portion of which reads as follows: 181.	According to "Cunningham", "Karshapana" coin was in use from 1000 BC while according to Dr. A.S. Altekar, Dr. S.K. Chakroberty and Prof. Vasudev Upadhyay, at least from 800 BC. During archaeological excavations, 'Karshapana' coins have been obtained in black polished earthen pots; and on the basis of Carbon 14 dating, those pots have been ascertained of about 600 BC. As such, it is needless to say that "Karshapana" coins kept in those pots are much older. In 'Ashtadhyayi' Panini, in 'Maha Bhashya' Patanjali, and in 'Kamasutra' Vatsyayan have mentioned "Karshapana" coins as currency in use in their respective period. 182.	In Naneghat inscription of queen Nayanika, wife of King Satakarni, in Nasik inscription of son-in-law of Shak Chhatrap Nahpan, and, in another Nasik inscription of Ishwarsen Abhir, 'Karshapana' has been mentioned as currency in use. According to Dr. Bhandarkar, date of said inscription of Ishwarsen Abhir is Shak Era 119 corresponding to 197 AD. This is the last South Indian inscription in which 'Karshapana' has been mentioned as currency in use and after that not in a single inscription of South Indian kings Karshapana currency has been mentioned. 183.	So far as North India is concerned, in the inscriptions from the period of Emperor Ashoka i.e. 3rd BC to inscriptions of King Vishnugupta of 6th AD, not in a single inscription, "Karshapana" has been mentioned. Instead, "Karshapana", in those inscriptions- 'Hiranya', 'Puran', 'Suvarn' and 'Dinar' coins have been mentioned as currency in use. In Damodarpur [III] Copper plate inscription of Gupta Era 163 equivalent to 482 AD, 'Hiranya' and 'Dinar' have been mentioned as synonyms of each other. According to Archaeologist Dr. Ramsharan Sharma, there is not a single inscription of 6th AD to 12th AD, wherein 'Karshapana' has been mentioned. 184.	Professor Vasudev Upadhyaya and Dr. Parmeshwarilal Gupta are unanimous in concluding that in Northern India, till 2nd BC, and in Southern India, till 2nd AD, "Karshapana" were seldom in use whereafter use of "Karshapana" was totally stopped. 185.	Dr. Vashudev Upadhyay concludes that "Karshapna" was in use in all over India prior to Mauryas' reign i.e. 4th BC. As such, Adi Shankaracharya who used 'Karshapana' in his Commentary to make the true purport of Sacred Text easily understandable for the people of entire India, was certainly present in the 5th BC. Advent of Adi Shankaracharya cannot be imagined in 788 AD as during that period 'Karshpana' coins were not in use. 186. The antiquity of Shankaracharya has also been related by Pt. Harikrishna Raturi with reference to Temple of Sri Badrinath. In his Book 'Garhwal ka Itihas' (supra), he has written that according to an inscription of Badarinath Temple, said Temple was built by Shankaracharya 2380 years back, (452 B.C.), though mentioned in the book as (Vikrami Samvat 76). We find here that in calculation, writer has committed an error of a few years which transpired from his own statement contained in the said book to the effect that according to the documents preserved in the records of Baroda State it is known that Adi Shankaracharya was born in Yudhisthir Shak 2631 corresponding to 476 BC. In fact Yudhisthir Shak 2631 is equvalent to 507 BC as such there is 31 years shortage in its conversion by Sri Raturi. We get 492 BC as the real date of construction of aforesaid Temple which matches with old records or traditions of 'Peeth' established by Adi Shankaracharya. Four Copper plate Inscriptions procured from Pandukeshwar Temple, management whereof was under Badarinath Temple, substantiate antiquity of said temple as those inscriptions are certificate of land granted by Kings of the Kushali Dynasty in Vardhaman Vijairaj Samvatsar 4, 21, 22 and 25 respectively in favour of Badarinath Temple. Those inscriptions are in antique Pali, which was prevalent from 4thBC to 5thAD. In the inscription of "Subhiksharaj Kushali" bearing Vardhaman Vijairaj Samvatsar 4, his father has been projected more benevolent than 'Shesh' 'Bali', 'Vaikartan' [Karna], 'Dadhichi' and 'Chandragupta'. In the said history it has been stated that Rajpal, King of that region was descendent of 'Parikshit' and contemporary of king 'Vikramaditya' of Ujjain, the founder of Vikaram Samvat and after his dynasty, region was ruled over by kings of 'Panwar Dynasty'. It shows that Kushali dynasty ruled that area some times between 3rd BC and 1st BC. 187. However, in "The Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trust", written by AC Sen, 5th Edition, learned author dates back antiquity of Adi Shankarcharya to 700 or 600 AD. Most recent Researchers and Authors have also accepted period of Adi Shankaracharya in 600-700 AD and some have referred to his period of birth from 688 AD or 788 AD. With regard to his death, all are agreeable that he lived for 32 years and died at an early age. 188. 	The relevancy to find out origin of Adi Shankaracharya is to understand content and meaning of various aspects propagated and defined by him, in the light of scriptures prevalent at that time, but we find ourselves short of expert in this regard to give a final opinion in the presence of different versions. Be that as it may, we are not proposing to record any final opinion with regard to antiquity of Adi Shankaracharya since for our purposes, factum of his work i.e. establishment of Peethas and directions issued by him with regard to continuous management thereof would be relevant and therefore, we are confining ourselves to this aspect only. (b) Works and stature/position among Sanatan Dharma followers/devotees. 189.	It is a common case that Adi Shankaracharya established four Peethas to protect, preserve and propagate knowledge of Supreme Self (Bahm) i.e. Vidya and facilitate people to move from 'Avidya' (worldly knowledge) to 'Vidya' and thereby attain salvation. As such to interpret the purport of the said greatest Preceptor, it is necessary to know about the tradition of Vedas. 190.	Elaborating on the stature of Adi Shankaracharya for Hindu Santan Dharma followers and devotees, both the parties are ad idem that Adi Shankaracharya was a 'Vibhuti' or 'Mahima', i.e. "Divine Majesty (glory). In ordinary sense, it may also be termed as 'Daiviya Padavi', i.e. 'Divine status', 'position'. 191.	Sri Padmacharya, one of four principal disciples of Adi Shankaracharya, and first Acharya and Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Goverdhanmath Puri, in "Panch Padiaka" has said that rLeknxz.kh% f'k"Vkpkjifjikyus Hkxoku~ Hkk";dkj%A (amongst men of righteous conduct of Lord Shankaracharya Interpreter is foremost). In the tradition of non-dualistic denomination, Adi Shankaracharya is often referred and called as "Bhagvatpad" and "Bhagwan Bhashyakar". One who possesses six attributes namely lordliness, prowess, fame, beauty, knowledge, non-attachment is Bhagwan or one who knows the origin, dissolution, the bondage and salvation of creatures, knowledge, ignorance is "Bhagwan". As all these attributes and knowledge were possessed by Adi Shankaracharya, he is called "Bhagwan". 192.	Whom people call 'Bhagwan'? In "Srimadbhagwatgita" Arjun first asked Lord Krishna to tell him, his, Divya Vibhutinam i.e., Divine Glories: 193. 	So Lord Krishna while starting the description, told, that he would tell him His Divine Glories in brief and said: 194.	And then Lord said that 'among the Gods, I am Indra, among the Rudras, I am Shankar, among the men, I am King, among the wielders of weapons, I am Rama, among rishis, I am Vasudeo, and among Muni, I am Vyasa I am 'Adnhyatmvidya' i.e. knowledge of the Self. 195.	A reference is made to Chapter 10 verses 31 and 42 of Srimadbhagwatgita, which read as under: 196.	At last, Lord said: 197.	Renowned ascetic and non-ascetic scholars in their respective translation of above mentioned couplets of Srimadbhagwatgita have translated Sanskrit word 'Divya Vibhuti' as 'Divine Glory' 'Divine Majesty'. 198.	Similarly, in "Mahabharata", Divine Glories of Lord Shiva have been enumerated as follows: "you assume the form of Indra, amongst Yogis you are Nishkal Shiv, amongst Rishis you are Vashishtha, you are Bhagwan, Sarvajna (Omniscient), Nigrah (he who restrains and subjugates), Brahma, Shankar, Shankar-adhan (Shankar who has no wealth), Vishnu Mundi (shaven head) or Dandi (who has the well known badge of renunciation viz the stick) Guru (great Lord or preceptor), Brahmadanda Vinirmata (maker of Brahman's rod), Brahmavid Brahman (who knows meanings of Vedas and devoted to Brahm i.e. Brahmajnani), Vyas. 199.	All the above scriptural glories of Lord Shiva are source of religious belief of ascetics and devotees who follow religious path shown by Adi Shankaracharya, They treat Adi Shankaracharya as one of the 'Vibhutinam' (glories or majesties or manifestations) of 'Lord Shankar'. 200.	Traditional religious belief since last thousand and more years is also recorded in "Shankar Digvijaya". It records that 'Sage Vyasa' declared 'Adi Shankaracharya' unique incarnation of Lord Shiva. 201. In brief, both the parties are in agreement on the stature/authority of "Adi Shankaracharya" that Adi Shankaracharya is a Divine Majesty i.e., "Daiviya Padvi" of an incarnation of Lord Shankar and it is not an office or post, as we understand these terms, in common parlance. In other words, "Adi Shankaracharya" is not like an ordinary Mahant or Mathadhipati but a living diety of a Religious Kshetra and his monastery is religious capital thereof, as centre of traditional knowledge, from which areas, he is authorized only to ask for alms and not wealth. 202.	Now coming to installation on seats of learning for propagating Vedic tradition and teachings of Upnishads, we find that 'Adi Shankaracharya" propagated philosophy of Advait. He had a very short span of life of 32 years. He became 'Renouncer' at the age of 8 years and, became proficient in Vedas, its subsidiaries and all scriptures at the age of 12 years. He wrote commentaries on 'Prasthana Trayee-Upanisads, Brahma-Sutra and Gita', authored so many original works, explained meaning of the "Vishnu Sahasranama" etc. at the age of 16 years. 203.	Acharya Shankar i.e. "Adi Shankaracharya", defeated several giant disputants in debate/discourse upon scriptures, foremost of whom was scholar Mimamsak (interpreter) of ritualistic school of Vedas, Sri "Mandan Mishra" and his learned wife 'Bharati'. After being defeated, "Mandan Mishra", who is considered to be an incarnation of Lord Brahma, became his disciple and renamed by Adi Shankaracharya, as "Sureshwaracharya" alias 'Vishwaroop'. (Source of Sri Shankar Digvijaya/Sarga 7 to 10 pages 219-370). With regard to status of Shankaracharya, even appellant's witness DW-3, Sri Omkar Nath Tripathi, has deposed as under: 204.	Similarly, plaintiff's witnesses PW-3, Sri Kameshwar Nath Mishra and PW-41, Sri Shanker Dev Chaitanya Bramchari, have deposed as under: 205.	Even the appellant himself as DW-3 has deposed about the authority and status of Shankaracharya and establishment of four "Amanya Peethas" by him, which is corroborated by DW-31 and DW-37 as under: 206.	Thus, to refer Shankaracharya as an "office" or "post" in our view is a misnomer and undermines position of Shankaracharya in the eyes of the customary laws being observed and followed by followers for more than a thousand years. The definition of ''office' is different and cannot be equated with the situation of installation of a Shankaracharya and authority he enjoys. 207.	The term ''Office' has been defined in Black's Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, on page 1082-1083 as under: 208.	Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases, Seventh Edition, Volume 2, defines 'Office' on page 1846 as under: 209.	P. Ramanatha Aiyar's 'The Law Lexicon' 3rd Edition 2012 defines 'Office' on page 1245-1246 as under: 210.	Webster's Third New International Dictionary (Unabridged) Volume-II, defines 'Office' on page 1567 as under: 211.	The Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, 8th Edn. defines the words 'Office' on page 1055 as under: 212.	We may also examine the definition of ''position' and ''status' in various language and legal dictionaries, as under.
 
	Position: 213.	It has also been considered in Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal Vs. His Holiness Sri La Sri Kasivasi Arulnandi Thambiran Swamiga (1974) 1 SCC 150.  It is a judgment delivered by three-Judges Bench of Apex Court through Hon'ble K.K. Mathew, J. A suit for declaration that plaintiff Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal was entitled to continue as Elavarasu or Junior Head of the Kasi Mutt was filed and a perpetual injunction was also prayed for restraining defendant from interfering in plaintiff's functioning as Junior Head of the Mutt. Defendant pleaded that plaintiff was not validly nominated as Junior Head of the Mutt, and even if nominated, had acquired no right to continue as such. His conduct was such that he was unworthy to become Future Head of the Mutt, hence his nomination was cancelled and he has no right to seek declaration as prayed for. Trial Court mainly considered the questions, (a) whether plaintiff was nominated by defendant as Elavarasu of Kasi Mutt; (b) whether, by virtue of the nomination, plaintiff was holding an office or had acquired any right or status; (c) whether plaintiff was guilty of misconduct which disentitled him to continue as Elavarasu; and, (d) whether plaintiff's nomination as the Elavarasu was validly cancelled by the defendant. Trial Court held that though defendant nominated him Elavarasu of Kasi Mutt, but plaintiff neither acquired status nor became holder of an Office by virtue of mere nomination. It also held that defendant was competent to cancel nomination even though plaintiff was not guilty of any misconduct and that it was actually cancelled by executing a ''Will'. Suit was accordingly dismissed by Trial Court. In First Appeal, District Judge confirmed findings and decree of Trial Court and dismissed appeal. In Second Appeal, a single Judge of Madras High Court found that by virtue of nomination as Elavarasu, plaintiff became holder of an office or that, at any rate, acquired a 'status'. It also held that defendant could terminate the 'office' or 'status' only for a good cause and thereafter confirmed findings of Trial Court and appellate Court that plaintiff was not guilty of any misconduct and then held that cancellation of nomination of plaintiff by ''will' was ineffective. As a result, learned single Judge granted a decree to plaintiff declaring that he was duly appointed Junior Head of Kasi Mutt and entitled to continue as such subject to the right of Head of Mutt to remove him for good cause. Learned single Judge, however, did not make a declaration that plaintiff had a right to succeed to Headship of Mutt after the lifetime of defendant, nor the injunction, as prayed for, was granted. Both the parties then preferred intra-Court appeals before Division Bench. The decree passed by learned single Judge was reversed by Division Bench holding that plaintiff did not become holder of an office by virtue of nomination, hence, it was open to defendant to cancel nomination without notice to plaintiff and without assigning any reason. This decree passed by Division Bench was challenged in appeal by plaintiff before Supreme Court. The question considered was whether, by virtue of the nomination, plaintiff obtained a 'status' or a right in law or became holder of an office, and, whether defendant was competent to cancel nomination without good cause. Tracing history of Kasi Mutt, Court referred to an earlier judgment of Madras High Court in Giyana Sambandha Pandara Sannadhi Vs. Kandasami Thambira I.L.R. 10 Mad 375 and found that Kasi Mutt and another Dharmapuram Adhinam were monastic institutions. They were presided over by ascetics who have renounced the world. Mutt at Tiruppanandal i.e. Kasi Mutt was affiliated to Dharmapuram Adhinam as a disciple Adhinam. An Adhinam is a central institution from which the chief ascetic exercises control and supervise over a group of endowed institutions and religious trusts. A Thambiran is an ascetic attached to an Adhinam and when he becomes Head of Adhinam, he is referred to as "Pandara Sannadhi". A Mutt was originally established at Benares by one Kumaragurupara Thambiran of Dharmapuram Adhinam. Dharmapuram Adhinam had come into existence several centuries before the institution of Mutt at Benares. Mutt at Tiruppanandal was established later in aid of Mutt at Benares by Tillanayaka Thambiran, a successor of Kumaragurupara Thambiran who functioned between 1720 to 1756. In the course of time, the Mutt at Tiruppanandal became the principal Mutt and Mutt at Benares a subsidiary one. It advanced in fame, endowments and trusts began to come in. So, subsidiary institutions came to be established and Tiruppanandal Mutt ceased to be an isolated institution. It became an important center exercising supervision and control over several subordinate Mutts in Southern India, over the Mutt in Benares, and over Mutts at Merangi in Nepal and at Achiram in Travancore so much so that in some of the later correspondence one finds that Tiruppanandal is referred to as an Adhinam. Dharmapuram Adhinam was regarded by the Thambiran at Tiruppanandal as his Gurupitham, the seat of his religious preceptor. Thambirans at Tiruppanandal, were, in a spiritual sense, subordinate to Pandara Sannadhi at Dharmapuram. In course of time, a Junior Thambiran came to be associated with Senior Thambiran in management of Tiruppanandal Mutt. The practice in Dharampuram Adhinam was that there being a Senior and a Junior "Pandara Sannadhi" at one and the same time and that was the probable origin of double agency at Tihuppanandal. But, as only a "Pandara Sannadhi" could initiate a Thambiran, it came about that Thambirans for the Mutt at Tiruppanandal and Benares came from Dhamapuram Adhinam. During the first part of 19th century (1833 to 1841) there were two managing Thambirans both at Benares and at Tiruppanandal, a Senior and a Junior; and the peculiar feature of this period consisted in this double agency at each center of control, which was probably due to the considerable increase in the number and value of endowments to be superintended. Court observed that succession to the office of Mahant or Head of a Mutt is to be regulated by customs of particular Mutt and one who claims the office by right of succession is bound to allege and prove what the custom of the particular institution is, for, the only law regulating succession to such institutions is to be found in the custom and practice of that institution. For this purpose, Court relied on the decisions of Privy Council in Greedharee Doss Vs. Nandokissore Doss , Mohunt (1867) M.I.A. 405 and Ramalingam Pillai Vs. Vythialingam Pillai (1893) 20 I.A. 150, Ramalingam Pillai Vs. Vythialingam Pillai I.L.R. 16 Mad 490. 214.	It was argued before Court in Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal (Supra) that Mahant or Head of Mutt is a kind of property and, therefore, nomination by Mahant of his successor amounts to disposal of property after death of Mahant in that particular matter and it will confer a right upon the nominee or successor in regard to property. This argument was repelled and Court said that where a successor can be nominated or declared by a deed or word of mouth, this is a positive proof to show that nomination is not merely a disposal of office or of properties appertaining to it, but it is creation of a present relationship generating capacity to succeed to the office and to the properties appertaining to the office. By word of mouth or deed one cannot dispose of an office, if it is property, to take effect after the death of the person uttering the word or executing the deed. Therefore, nomination is not a disposal simpliciter of the office of the Headship of the Mutt or its properties, to take effect after the death of the incumbent. Court said: 215.	Court then proceeded to consider what is the nature of that relationship? It said that nomination is a concept pertaining to Hindu Religious Endowments and it is sui generis. One cannot put it in the straight jacket of any jurisprudential concept. John Austin in his jurisprudence has observed that status is "the most difficult problem in the whole science of jurisprudence." Court observed, whether a nominee would acquire a status has to be decided with reference to customs followed in Mutt. It is well known custom in several Mutts where heads nominate their successors. Whether or not a particular condition or relationship is one of status depends primarily on the existence and extent of the social interest in the creation and supervision of such a condition or relationship. The test is not a simple one of the existence or non-existence of the concern of the society; it is also one of the degree of such concern. The degree and even the existence of this concern in a particular condition will vary from time to time in the same society. Court said, it is not possible to draw a clear line of distinction in a dogmatic and a priori manner between conditions of status and special conditions not of status. In other words, the picture of status cannot be painted in elemental colours of black and white on any a priori considerations. It is rather a matter for a Court to decide at the time of action whether a particular condition does or does not involve a sufficient degree of social interest to be characterised as status, assuming that all other features of status are present. 216.	'Bentham's' idea of 'status' was that it was "a quality or condition which generates certain rights and duties". 'Beale' defines 'status' as a personal quality or relationship not temporary in nature nor terminable at the mere will of parties with which third parties and even the State are concerned. "C.K. Allen" said that 'status' is a condition of belonging to a particular class of persons to whom law assigns certain capacities and incapacities. 'Graveson' defines 'status' as a special condition of a continuous and institutional nature, differing from the legal position of the normal person which is conferred by law and not purely by the act of the parties, whenever a person occupies a position of which the creation, continuance or relinquishment and the incidents are a matter of sufficient social or public concern. The distinguishing mark of a class for the purpose of status is that legal consequences result to its members from the mere fact of belonging to it. 217.	In Salvesan Vs. Administrator of Austrian Property (1927) A.C. 641, Lord Haldane while imposing a question: "For what does status mean in this connection?", answered the same by observing that in the case of marriage, it is something more than a mere contractual relation between the parties to the contract of marriage. He also said that status may result from such a contractual relationship, but only when the contract has passed into something which Private International Law recognizes as having been superadded to it by the authority of the State, something "which the jurisprudence of the State under its law imposes when within its boundaries the ceremony has taken place." 218.	In Nibovet Vs. Nibovet (1878) P.D. (CA) 1, Brett, L.J. said : 219. In Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal (supra), Court said that the fundamental difference between 'status' and 'capacity' is that the former is a legal state of being while the latter is a legal power of doing. 'Status' determines a person's legal condition in community by reference to some legal class or group and cannot normally be voluntarily changed. The imposition of 'status' carries with it attribution of a fixed quota of capacities and incapacities, but it does not directly compel the holder to do or refrain from doing any particular act. Capacity, on the other hand, is a legally conferred power to affect the rights of oneself and other persons to whom the exercise of the capacity is directed, subject to certain generally and legally defined limits-limits which vary in relation to each particular form of capacity. Court said that capacity in this form is an incident of status, and, a distinction therefore must be made between the legal principles applicable to the major conception of status and those affecting the minor conception of its incidents. 220.	In Tarak Chandra Das and another Vs. Anukul Chandra Mukherjee A.I.R. 1946 Cal 118, B.K. Mukherjea, J. said : 221.	It is in this context, Court in Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal (supra) said that the fact of a person being legally nominated as Junior, having a peculiar relationship with the Senior is 'status'. Capacity to succeed to the head is the incident of that status. Court also held: 222. The position of Shankaracharya, therefore, is of a special significance. Though an individual is installed as 'Shankaracharya' but by its very nature it is a status or position in trust, faith and belief of millions of Hindu Sanatan Dharma Followers and not in connection with a private right. It has developed into a different significance in the light of its historical backdrop and cannot be equated with a common public or private right to a religious endowment in respect of any property or mere ordinary status. Plaintiff himself has admitted in his oral deposition that Mahant of a Math hold property of a Math as 'Trustee' while position of Shankaracharya is a 'Mission' and property attached with the office is for accomplishment of such Mission. 223.	It also shows that succession of Shankaracharya will be governed by customs and traditions which are within the definition of law under Article 13 of Constitution of India and cannot be varied by certain individuals or group of individuals on their own. (c) About Four Peethas: The Concept of Mutt: 224.	Adi Shankaracharya was knower of Brahm. To felicitate ascetics to know 'Brahma', he founded "Four Peethas" called "Amnay Peetham". 225. Though Sri Goel initially sought to place position of "Amnay Peetham" as commonly known Mutts/Monastries described by certain authors of three kinds and said that it is a "Mourusi Mutt" but from the evidence on record and in particular even from deposition of appellant himself it is evident that both parties do not dispute that position of Peeths established by Adi Shankaracharya are not like an ordinary Math or Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment but has a peculiar significance and importance for all worshipers and followers of Hindu Sanatan Dharma, who hold Adi Shankaracharya, an incarnation of Lord Shiva. 226.	Object of founding of four Traditional Vedic Monasteries by "Adi Shankaracharya" lies in "Rigved" 1.164.39; which object has been explained by Adi Sayanacharya in his Bhashya (commentary) thereon. There are two types of Vidyas i.e. Aparavidya and Paravidya. Vedas i.e. Sam-Veda, Rig-Veda, Atharv-Veda and, Yajur-Veda with their subsdiaries i.e. Shiksha (Euphony), Kalp (Rites), Nirukt (Etymology), Vyakaran (Grammar), Chhand (Metre), Jyotish (Astrology); are Aparavidya. They lead to 'Aparbrahma'. Upanishadas are Paravidya. They lead to Parbrahm. There is no use of studying Vedas and indulged in Yajnas (Sacrifices) if one does not acquire knowledge of Brahma. Commentary says, Almighty tells us that: 227.	"Purush Sukta" says that Vedas originated from Supreme-self i.e. Brahm. (Yajurved 31.7, Maharshi Dayanand Sarswati bhashya of 1877 AD as transalated in English by Devi Chand 1992 Edn. This Hymn is also in Rig Veda. 10.90.9)
 
^^rLeks|`Jkr~ loZgqr _p% lkekfu tfJjsA NUnkSfl tfKjs rLek|tqLrLeksntk;rAA
 
"From the adorable God unto Whom people make every kind of sacrifice, were created the Rig Veda, the Sam Veda. From Him was created the Atharva Veda and also the yajur Veda." 228.	The Tradition of the aforesaid knowledge came down from Almighty to the four disciples of "Adi Shankarcharya", namely, 'Padmapad', 'Hastamalak', 'Trotak' and 'Vartikakar' i.e. Sureshwaracharya via Brahm, Narayan, Brahma, Vashisht, Sakti and his son Parasar; Vadarayan Vyas, the incarnation of Lord Vishnu; Shukdeo, Gaudpad the great, Govinda Yogindra and; Bhagvatpad Shankar, the incarnation of lord Shankar. Before starting his discourse every Acharya of Shankar Tradition recites verses as follows: 229.	Adi Shankaracharya, following the divine order, established four Peethas in four quarters of Bharat, (i) Sharda Peeth for west, Dwarka (Gujarat) (ii) Sringeri Peeth for South (Chikmangloor) (iii) Goverdhan Peeth for East (Puri) (iv) Jyotir Peeth for North (Chamoli), Uttarakhand 230.	Nomenclature of these Peethas is as under: 231.	All these Peethas had different characters in various ways are described in various texts books including "Mathamnaya". Position of Peethas as per "Mathamnaya" as under: 232. 	The 1st Peeth of Traditional Vedic knowledge in the West, established by Adi Shankaracharya is called 'Sharada Peeth'. Order of its ascetics is Keetwar, Teerth and Ashram are their title or natural glories. Kshetra (Realm) is Dwaraka, God is Siddheshwar. Goddess is Bhadrakali and (first) Acharya is Vishwaroop. Teerth (Sacred Stream) is Gomati. Swaroop is glory of celibates. Samveda is subject of teaching. Mahavakya (Great Enlightening Precept) is 'Tat Twam Asi' i.e. That thou art (Chha. Up. 6/8/7), one derives knowledge of oneness in the Self and Supreme Self. Gotra is Avigat. Territories Situated in the western direction bounded by Sindhu, Sauvir, Saurashtra and Maharashtra are apportionment of Sharda math. One who takes holy-dip in the Mahavakya "Tat Twam, Asi" as in the Triveni-sangam (sacred stream of the three rivers' confluence) with the passion of the knowledge of Reality is termed as Teerth. The Renouncer steadfast in adoption of ascetic Ashram, excluded from the shackles in the form of hope as well as free from being subjected to life and death, is termed as 'Ashram'. Order of the Renouncers that always bestows mercy upon creatures; precludes the worldly people having non-discriminating wisdom, whose acts are prompted by natural impulses that are repugnant to the scripture from becoming little creatures which are constantly subject to birth and death by making their discriminating wisdom free from the ignorance created by antagonism of desire and repulsion; is called Keetwar. One who knows one's Self properly, complies One's Dharm and amuses in one's Self-delight that Brahmachari (celibate) is termed as Swaroop. 233.	This Peeth is situated in the district of Deobhumi (previously in the State of Gujarat on western Sea (Arabian Sea) shore and River Gomti.
 
SHRI GOVERDHAN PEETH-PURI; 234.	The 2nd Peeth of Traditional Vedic knowledge in the East, established by Adi Shankaracharya is called 'Goverdhan Peeth'. Order of its Renouncers is Bhogvar. 'Van' and 'Aranya' are their natural glories. Kshetra (Realm) is Purushottam. God is Jagannath. Goddess is 'Vimala' and (first) Acharya is Padmapad. Sacred Stream is called 'Mahodadhi' and celibate's glory is 'Prakash'. Their great Motto is ' Prajnanam Brahm' i.e. ' Consciousness is Brahm (Ait. Up. 3/1/3). Prescribed study is of Rigved. Gotra is Kaashyap. Territories situated in the east and in those days known as Ang, Bang, Kaling, Magadh, Utkal and Barbar are under Govardhan Peeth. Ascetic who, dwells in a beautiful lonely forest and is excluded from the Shackles of hope is called 'Van'. The ascetic who renounces this whole world, residing in the woods, always revels in supreme bliss by going adorable supreme self through the cleft entrance is called 'Aranya'. Order of ascetics that precludes human being from the objects of sense enjoyments, is called 'Bhogvar'. Celibate who is skilled in the practice of Yoga, knows Self Luminary, enlightened with the knowledge of the Reality is called 'Prakash'. 235.	This Peeth is situated in the District town at Puri on the Shore of the Eastern Sea (Bay of Bengal) in the State of Odisha.
 
SHRI JYOTIRPEETH AT SHREE PEETH- BADARIKASHRAM: 236.	The 3rd Peeth of Tradition Vedic knowledge in the North, established by Adi Shankaracharya is called 'Jyotirpeeth'. Shree math is its another name. Its fruition given Order of the Renouncers is known as 'Anandvar', 'Giri', 'Parvat' and 'Sagar' are their natural glories. Realm is 'Badarikashram'. God is 'Narayan'. Goddess is 'Purnagiri' and (first) Acharya is Totak. Sacred Stream is called 'Alaknanda'. Celibate is 'Anand' and Great Motto is "Ayamatma Brahm" i.e. "This Self is Brahma" (Mand. Up./2). Celibate is Speaker of the Atharweda, Gotra is Bhrigu. The then territories of Kuru, Kashmir, Kamboj, Panchal divisions etc. are under Jyotirmath. One who always lives in the forest and hills, engaged in study of Gita, who is sober and has firm prudence, is called 'Giri', who resides in the mountain valley, whose knowledge is mature, knows specifically quintessence and quintessencelessness, is called 'Parvat' and one who picks gem of knowledge from the deep sea of Substance, never exceeds his limits, is called Sagar. Order of excellent Renouncers that precludes living beings from worldly-pleasure and objects for sense enjoyments called 'Anandvar'. The knower of the Absolute Truth who always thinks about Truth, knowledge and infinite and amuses in self-delight, is called 'Anand'.
 
SHRI SHREENGERI PEETH-SHREENGERI: 237.	The 4th Peeth of Traditional Vedic knowledge in the South, established by Adi Shankaracharya is called Shreengeri Peeth. Denomination of its Renouncers is 'Bhurivar', and Gotra is 'Bhur Bhuvah', 'Saraswati', 'Bharti' and 'Puri' are three natural glories (of the ascetics). Realm is 'Rameshwar'. God is 'Adivarah'. Bestower of all kinds of desires fruit, Kamakshi is its Goddess. (First) Acharya is 'Hastamalak' and Sacred Stream 'Tungabhadra'. Chaitanya named celibate is reader of the 'Yajur-ved'. Its great motto is 'Aham Brahm Asmi'. i.e. 'I am Brahm' (Bri. Up /1/4/10). The then territories of Andhra, Dravida, Karnataka, Kerala etc. situated in the south are under Shreengeri Peeth. An ascetic who is always engaged in the knowledge of the generator of the Shree i.e. Supreme Cosmic power, studies and expounds the Shree Vidya i.e. knowledge of the Shree and strikes upon expansion of essencelessness of the world as of sea, that steadfast Omniseer is called 'Saraswati'. One who is full of bulk of knowledge, abandoning burden of everything doesn't know load of distress, is called 'Bharati'. The ascetic who is filled up with knowledge of reality, remaining absorbed in the Supreme Reality and always fond of Supreme Self is called 'Puri.' The Order of Renouncers which precludes living being from the excessiveness of Golden Wealth is called 'Bhurivar'. Enlightened celibate who knows Universal spirit as un-pereceivable, infinite, un-decaying and pure-one, is called 'Chaiyanya'. 238.	This Peeth is situated in the district Chikmangloor on the bank of River Tunga in the State of Karnataka. 239.	In "Shrimad Bhagvata Mahapurana" 10.37 (Appendics 1E i.e.Text and English Translation thereof by C.L.Goswami), it says
 
^^_X;tq% lkekFkokZ[;ku~ osnku~ iwokZfnfHkeqZ[kS%A 'kL=feT;ka LrqfrLrksea izk;f'pra O;o/kkrdzekr~AA
 
"Brahma brought out the four Vedas called the Rigveda, the Yajurveda, the Samaveda and the Atharvaveda severally from his mouth facing the east, south, west and north; and in the same order did he create Sastra (the duty of the priest called Hota) ljya (the duty of the Adhwaryu), Stutistoma (the duty of the Udgata) and Prayascitta (the duty of the Brahma)". 240.	Every Peeth has a different administrative Head and disciples of one Peeth are distinct from another Peeth. Teachings and followings are also distinct and separate in each Peeth. There is no amalgamation of religious orders being followed in each Peeth. Ten classes of Sanyasis/Yatees or monks who formed the order of disciples under Shankaracharya School are (1) Teerth (2) Ashram (3) Van (4) Aranya (5) Giri (6) Parvat (7) Sagar (8) Saraswati (9) Bharti and (10) Puri. The aforesaid Dasnami Order is prevailing in present time also. Plaintiff and Appellant in the context of Jyotirmath /Joytispeeth adopt the title of 'Saraswati'.
 
Tradition of Guru-'Shishya' i.e. Parampara 241.	About tradition of Guru-Shishya Parampara, in "Sri Shankarcharya" ('Sri Shankaracharya Ke Jeevancharit Tatha Updeshon ka Pramanik Vivran'), written by Acharya Baldeo Upadhyay, published by Hindustani Academy, Allahabad, third edition 2003 (1st edition published in 1950), on pages 167 to 171, about "Shankar Ki Guru-Parampara", it has been written,
 
^^'kadj dh xq: &ijEijk ^^
 
(Master- Tradition of Shankar)
 
vkpk;Z 'kadj ds lEiznk; dk o.kZu miyC/k xzUFkksa esa ,d leku gh ugha feyrk] izR;qr bu o.kZuksa esa i;kZIr fHkUurk n`f"Vxkspj gksrh gSA 
 
"Description about Sect of Shanker in books available, does not tally with uniformity, rather vast differences appear therein. 
 
	'kkDr rU= lkfgR; esa ^Jhfo|k.kZo* uked ,d furkUr fo[;kr iqLrd gSA bl fo'kkydk; xzUFk ds fHkUu&fHkUu va'k Hkkjr ds fofHkUu izkUrksa ds iqLrdky;ksa esa gLrfyf[kr :i ls miyC/k gksrs Fks] iwjk xzUFk tEew ds j?kqukFk efUnj ds iqLrdky; esa FkkA mlh izfr ds vk/kkj ij ;gh egRoiw.kZ xzUFk dk'ehj ls blh o"kZ nks ftYnksa esa izdkf'kr gqvk gSA blesa rU='kkL= ds lEiw.kZ fl)kUrksa dk foospu Jhfo|k dh mikluk ds dze dks voyEcu dj HkyhHkkWfr fd;k x;k gSA izlaxo'k blesa vkpk;Z 'kadj dh xq: ijEijk vkSj f'k"; ijEijk dk dqN o.kZu feyrk gSA Jhfo|k dh mikluk ds lkFk vkpk;Z 'kadj dk cM+k ?kfu"B lEcU/k FkkA bldk ifjp; gesa dsoy rkfU=d xzUFkksa ls gh ugha feyrk] izR;qr vkpk;Z ds }kjk LFkkfir ihBksa dh iwtk&i)fr ds fujh{k.k ls Hkh pyrk gSA vkpk;Z ds fof'k"V eBksa esa ^Jh;U=* gS ftldh iwtk eBk/kh'k ds dk;ksZa esa ,d fo'ks"k LFkku j[krh gSA 'kadj ds }kjk fojfpr xzUFkksa ls Hkh bldh i;kZIr iqf"V gksrh gSA lkSUn;Z ygjh rFkk iziaplkj ,sls gh rkfU=d xzUFk gSa ftudh jpuk ds lkFk vkpk;Z dk uke laf'y"V gSA ;s lc f=iqjk&rU= ds xzUFk gSaA bruh gh ugha] vkpk;Z us ftl ^yfyrkf='krh* dk ikf.Mr;iw.kZ Hkk"; fy[kk gS og Hkh blh rU= ds lEc) gSA 
 
In the literature of "Shakt Tantra", there is a very popular book named "Srividyarnav". Parts of Manuscript of this voluminous book were available in different libraries of various Provinces of India; complete book was available in the library of Raghunath temple, Jammu. On the basis of that very copy, this valuable book has been published this year itself in two volumes from Kashmir. Keeping in view the order/sequence of worship of Srividya, interpretation of all principles of Tantra Shastra has exhaustively been made in it. By way of reference, some description of Guru Prampara and Shisya Parampara (Tradition of Master-disciple) is found. Acharya Shanker was deeply indulged with worship of Srividya. Its proof is found not only in Trantrik Books but also from observance of methods of worship prevailing in Peethas established by Acharya. There are "Sriyantra" placed in special Mathas of Acharya, worship whereof is given an important place in the duties assigned to Mathadhish. It is also amply proved by the books authored by Shanker. Creation of "Saundarya Lahari" and Prapanch Saar" are such Tantrik books, with which, the name of Acharya is assimilated. These are books of Tripura Tantra. Not only this, the scholarly commentary on "Lalitatrishati"which Acharya has written, is also related to this Tantra. 
 
	xq:&ijEijk& izpfyr xzUFkksa ds vk/kkj ij 'kadj lEiznk; dh xq: ijEijk Hkxoku~ fo".kq ls vkjEHk gksrh gS%&
 
	On the basis of regnant books, Guru Parampara of Shankar commences from Bhagwan Vishnu 
 
 Shiv-Vishnu		Vasissth		
 
 A			 A		 A
 
 Shiv		 Shakti 	Gaudpad	
 
 A A A
 
 A			Parashar	Govind
 
 Brahma		 A		 A
 
 A			Vyas-Shuk 	Shanker
 

 
bl ijEijk ds vuqlkj 'kadj xkSM+ikn ds izf'k"; Fks vkSj ;s xkSM+ikn 'kqdnso th ds f'k"; FksA vkpk;Z dh xq:&ijEijk rFkk f'k"; ijEijk dh lwpuk bu izfl) i|ksa esa gS&
 
According to this tradition, Shankar was main disciple of Gaudpad and this Gaudpad was disciple of Shukdev Ji. Guru Parampara and Shisya Parampara with respect to Acharya, is found in the following famous verses: (English translation by Court) 242.	In the aforesaid book, "Sri Shankaracharya", commands of Adi Shankaracharya to his successors of four Peethas are described as under: fo}ku yksx gh /keZ ds fu;Urk gksrs gSa] vr% vkpk;Z us eBk/;{kksa ds pfj= dh ns[k&js[k bl ns'k ds izkS<+ fo}kuksa ds Åij gh j[k NksM+h gSA bl fo"k; esa fo}kuksa dk cM+k drZO; gSA xq.kghu laU;klh /keZ dh dFkefi lqO;oLFkk ugha dj ldrkA blh dkj.k 'kadjkpk;Z us mls in ls P;qr djus dk vf/kdkj fo}kuksa dks ns fn;k gSA vkpk;Z us bu v/;{kksa dks /keZ ds mn~ns'; ls jktlh BkV&ckV ls jgus dk mins'k fn;k gS ijUrq blesa LokFkZ dh cqf) izcy u gksdj midkj cqf) gh eq[; gksuh pkfg,A ihBksa ds v/;{kksa dks rks Lo;a i|i= dh rjg txr~ ds O;ogkjksa ls fufyZIr jguk pkfg,A mudk thou gh o.kkZJe /keZ dh izfr"Bk ds fy, gSA mUgsa ru&eu&/ku yxkdj bl dk;Z ds lEiknu ds fy, iz;Ru'khy cuuk pkfg,A ;fn os ,slk djus esa leFkZ ugha gSa rks ml egRoiw.kZ in ds vf/kdkjh os dHkh Hkh ugha gks ldrs ftldh LFkkiuk Lo;a vkpk;Z&pj.kksa us oSfnd /keZ ds vH;qn; ds fy, vius gkFk ls dh FkhA
 
	 Learned people are the controller of religion. Therefore, supervision over character of Head of Maths has been assigned to mature scholars of this country. A heavy duty is owed to learned people in this regard. A virtue-less Sanyasi can never properly regulate Dharma. Therefore, Shankaracharya conferred the power of dethroning him from the seat on learned persons. Acharya has preached these Heads to live a royal life from religious point of view, but instead of bearing strong element of selfishness, there should mainly be the strong element of welfare. Heads of Peethas themselves should remain unattached from materialistic affairs. Their entire life is dedicated to the installation of Varnashram Dharm. They should strive for implementation of this work, physically, mentally, and economically. If they are not capable in doing so, they can never be eligible for that important office, which was established by Acharya himself for resurrection of Vedic Relgiion. 
 
	vkpk;Z ds ;s mins'k fdrus mnkRr] fdrus mnkj rFkk fdrus mikns; gSa! blls Li"V izrhr gksrk gS fd vkpk;Z dk O;ogkjKku] 'kkL=Kku dh vis{kk dFkefi ?kVdj ugha FkkA ;g egkuq'kklu vk;Z /keZ ds fy, lpeqp egku~ vuq'kklu gSA*
 
 "How exalted, liberal and useful the preachings of Acharya are ! From this, it becomes clear that practical knowledge of Acharya, in any case, was not lesser than scriptural knowledge. This Mahanushasan is in fact a great discipline for Aryan Religion." (English translation by Court) 243. During course of argument, it is also stressed on the part of appellant that validity of appointment of Head of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth would not be within the purview of judicial review inasmuch, it is a part and parcel of established customs or usages relating to particular "religious denomination" and being fundamental right guaranteed under Article 25 and 26 of Constitution of India, Court would not be entitled to examine whether an installed Shankaracharya in a particular Amnaya Peeth, is duly qualified or not, when following Guru-Shishya Parampara, outgoing Shankaracharya has nominated or appointed his successor and it is sufficient to uphold such nomination for the reason that wisdom of outgoing Shankaracharya has to be honoured. 244.	Wide submission as advanced, we find it difficult to subscribe for the reason that fundamental right to manage religious affairs by every religious denomination or section thereof in the manner protected by Articles 26 and 27 would not be affected where a dispute arose that as per established customs or usages, and written scriptures applicable to such religious denomination, a person installed as Head of Mutt is not validly appointed/installed or his installation is illegal and contrary to such customs or usages including written conditions of established religious scriptures applicable to such religious denomination. 245.	Under Part III of Constitution, Article 13 includes within the term ' 'Law', custom, or usages having force of law in the territory of India. Which custom or usage having force of law is operating, and whether customs and usage have been correctly observed or followed, whenever this question is raised before a Court of Law, it can very well examine the same. So far as interpretation, whether such custom and usage having force of law is existing and operating, is a mixed question of fact and law and can be well examined by Court by exercising its judicial review. This also includes within its ambit true meaning of words like 'Mutt', 'Religious denomination', 'Head of Mutt', 'Mahant' etc. 246.	In the present case, the capacity and legality of installation of parties as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is attracting attention of Court. This question involves civil rights of respective parties and same can be examined. 247. 	The concept of 'Mutt' and 'religious denomination' which is said to have its noticeable history with establishment of Peethas by Adi Shankaracharya has also gone reformation/ change of concept with establishment of different Mutts by subsequent Hindu Sanantan Dharma's Preachers, Social Reformers, Sanyasis and Acharyas etc. It would also be necessary to have a bird eye view to that concept for the reason that difference of four Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya with that of Mutts and religious endowments came to be established subsequently from time to time is, evident from the fact that persons installed as Shankaracharyas in four Peethas have a different reverence, respect and followership in Sanatan Dharma giving them a supreme place, though as per local traditions, customs and beliefs, many other subsequently established Mutts/ Monasteries and religious endowments also have a large followers. Here again counsel for parties have not disputed that Shankaracharyas of four Peethas have a peculiar, unique and supreme reverence amongst the followers of Sanatan Dharma and they are looked with a different status, equivalent to God. 248.	The known historicity of concept of "Mutt" or "Peeth" relates back to the period of Adi Shankaracharya. Both the parties, during the course of argument have admitted that earlier thereto, there was custom, tradition and practice of Guru/Acharya Shiksha in Ashramas where spiritual, social, strategic and other training used to be given, keeping students in Ashramas like a whole time Boarding School but that was a concept nothing to do with "Mutt", Akharas, Religious Endowments etc. These concepts are different. 249.	As already said, Adi Shankaracharya established four Peeths, known as "Amnay Peeth" and in common layman language are called Hindu Mutts in four corners of Country, i.e., Govardhan Math at Puri, Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth at Badrinath, Sharda Math at Dwarka and Sringeri Math at Tungbhadra. With the passage of time, this practice expanded by many renowned scholars, some of them are worth mentioned hereat. 250.	"Ramanuj", later on called 'Ramanujacharya', was born in 1017 A.D., in village Perumbudur, about twenty-five miles west of Madras. His father was Kesava Somayaji and his mother was Kantimathi. Ramanuja's Tamil name was Ilaya Perumal. Quite early in life, Ramanuja lost his father. Then he came to Kancheepuram to pursue his study of 'Vedas' under one 'Yadavaprakasha', a teacher of Advaita philosophy. While studying, Ramanuj gave his own interpretations on certain Vaidik text contrary to that of his Teacher. At the end of tenth Century, "Visishtadvaita" system of philosophy was well established in Southern India. Followers of this creed were in-charge of important Vaishnavite temples at Kancheepuram, Srirangam, Tirupathi and other important places. The Head of important Vaishnavite institution was 'Yamunacharya', a great sage and profound scholar. He was also Head of the Mutt at Srirangam. One of his disciples, 'Kanchipurna', was serving in the temple at Kancheepuram. It is said that he was a Sudra, but Kanchipurna was so pious and good that people of the place had great respect and reverence for him. We are informed that there is a Temple at Kancheepuram where Kanchipurna's image has been installed and he is worshipped as a saint. 251.	Be that as it may, Ramanuj came under Kanchipurna's influence. There are some stories, as to how Ramajun abandoned his family life, but the fact remains that Ramanuj abandoned life of householder and became "Sanyasi". 'Yamunacharya' became very old and was looking out for a young person to take his place as Head of Mutt at Srirangam. He heard about Ramanuj and invited him but by the time Ramanuj reached Srirangam, Yamunacharya was dead. As per wishes of Yamunacharya, Ramanuj was installed as Head of "Visishtadvaita" Mutt at Srirangam and took solemn promises to fulfill the wishes of Yamunacharya, i.e., a Visishtadvaita Bhashya should be written for Brahma Sutras of Vyasa which till then had been taught orally to the disciples of Visishtadvaita philosophy and that the names of 'Parasara', author of 'Vishnu Purana', and Saint 'Sadagopa' should be perpetuated. Commentary of 'Brahma Sutras' written by 'Ramanuj' is known as "Sri Bhashya". It is said that Visishtadvaita system is an ancient one. It was expounded by Bodhayana in his Vritti, written about 400 B.C. and Ramanuj followed Bodhayana in his interpretations of Brahma Sutras. Followers of Ramanuj's sect of Vaishnavas are called Sri Sampradaya. Ramanuj also wrote "Vedanta Sara"(essence of Vedanta), "Vedanta Sangraha" (a resume of Vedanta) and "Vedanta Deepa" (the light of Vedanta). He travelled throughout the length and breadth of India including Kashi, Kashmir and Badrinath. It is said that Ramanuj lived about 120 years. 252.	We are not going in details of teaching of Ramanuj, which was basically of "advaita", but concept was slightly modified as "Visishtadvaita" and has some modification on the teachings of Adi Shankaracharya. What we basically find for our purpose is that concept of Mutt was strengthened and continued by one of the known great Saints, i.e., 'Ramanujacharya'. 253.	"Ramanand" had its origin sometimes between 1300 to 1380 A.D. He mostly lived in Varanasi and is recognized as founder of "Ramanandi Sampradaya". It is said that after philosophy of 'Visishtadvaita' propounded by Ramanujacharya, there was some dissent amongst the followers of Shankar on the concept of Advaita for the kind of Nirguna Brahma and concept of Advaitism for the kind of Saguna Brahma, i.e, God with attributes. According to later philosophy, God is Saguna Brahma. The creative process and all the objects in creation are real but not illusory as held by Adi Sankaracharya. Therefore, God, soul, matter are real. But God is inner substance and rest are his attributes. Adi Shankaracharya basically said everything for Brahamins. Ramanuja, on the contrary, also invited downtrodden to Vaishnavism. In this way, one theory was divided into two. He was born at Allahabad and initially a great follower of ''Ramanujacharya. Later he founded his own sect and preached his principles in Hindi at Banaras and Agra. He was a worshipper of Rama. It is said that he was first to employ vernacular medium to propagate his ideas. Simplification of worship and emancipation of people from traditional caste rules were his two important contributions to the Bhakti movement. He opposed caste system and chose his disciples from all sections of society. His disciples included Kabir, Raidas, Narahari etc. The period of Swami Ramanand is taken as 1299 to 1410 C.E. Followers of Ramanand are called as "Ramats", a sect of Vaishnavas founded by Ramanand. His area of function mostly constituted aesthetic population found in Banaras and Ayodhya. Ramanand also established several Maths, consisting only of 'celibates'. They obey no caste rules and even Sudras are in their brotherhood. "Ramats" worship only 'Rama' and they call themselves "Dass" (servants of Lord). 254.	In thirteenth century, "Madhavacharya" from Kannada region came to propagate Dvaita or dualism of Jivatma and Paramatma. According to his philosophy, world is not an illusion but a reality. God, soul, matter are unique in nature. 255.	"Nimbarka" and "Vallabhacharya" were also other preachers of Vaishnavite Bhakti in Telungana region. 'Surdas' was disciple of 'Vallabhacharya' and he popularized Krishna cult in northern India. Similarly, in Rajasthan, 'Mirabai' came as a great devotee of Lord Krishna and spread Bhakti in Lord Krishna through her bhajans. In Northern India, particularly in Avadh, 'Tulsidas' in 1500-1600 AD, a worshipper of Lord Rama, composed Ramcharitmanas, the Hindi version of Ramayana. In this era of Bhakti cult, in 14th and 15th century, Kabir and Nanak also became great apostles of Bhakti cult. They drew inspiration from old masters but propounded teachings in a new concept and refined path. They tried to solve problems of common people arising from age-old superstitions and propounded path of salvation through Bhakti or pure devotion. 256.	Adi Shankaracharya also constituted 'Dashnami Akhara' associated with Amnay Peetham, i.e., four peethas established by him. Tradition of Akharas, we find in subsequent period also, inasmuch 'Swami Brijanand' and 'Balanand' who belong to Ramanandi sect of Bairagies established three 'Anni' known as (1) 'Nirmohi', (2) 'Digamber' and (3) 'Nirwani'. These Annis were established for protection and improvement of "Chatuha Ramanandi Sampraday" comprising of seven Akharas, namely, (1) Sri Panch Ramanandi Nirmohi Akhara, (2) Sri Panch Ramanandi Nirwani Akhara, (3) Sri Panch Ramanandi Digambari Akhara, (4) Sri Panch Ramanandi Santoshi Akhara, (5) Sri Panch Ramanandi Khaki Akhara, (6) Sri Panch Ramanandi Niralambi and (7) Sri Panch Ramanandi Maha Nirwani. These Akharas work as "Panchayati Maths", function on democratic pattern. The real power vests in Panch. Appointment of Mahant is by election. The person, who is elected by Panchayat becomes Head of Akhara. 257.	"Maths", "religious denomination" as also "Panchayati Maths" have a well known concept. From the material placed herein, we find that a "Math" has been considered as an important kind of Hindu religious endowment. It spells differently at places, namely, 'Math', 'Mutt' or 'Muttum'. In ordinary language, it signifies an "abode" or "residence" of ascetics. In legal parlance, it connotes a "monastic institution" presided over by a Superior and established for the use and benefit of ascetics belonging to a particular order, who generally are disciples or co-disciples of the superior. 258.	Detailed history and other characteristics of religious institution, i.e., "Math" has been discussed in the erudite work of Dr. B.K. Mukherjea's, "The Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts" (Tagore Law Lectures) (hereinafter referred to as "Mukherjea's Hindu Law"), which was first published in 1952 and we are referring relevant extract from its 4th edition, edited by P.B. Gajendragadkar and P.M. Bakshi. It is stated in para 7.5 at page 332 that Hindu Maths were established for the first time by Adi Shankaracharya. He himself founded four Maths at the four corners of India and made them centres of his Vedantik teaching. Each of these Maths was placed in the charge of one of his four principal disciples, who were, Padmapad, Hastamalak, Sureswar and Trotaka. These four disciples had their own disciples also. In the course of time ten orders or classes of monks were formed, into which the monks of Shankar School stood divided. These ten orders popularly known as 'Dasnamis' bear the title Tirtha, Asrama, Vana, Aranya, Giri, Parvat, Sagar, Saraswati, Bharati and Puri. The disciples of Trotaka at Jyotir Mutt at Badrinath were Giri, Parvat and Sagar, while Sringeri Math claimed as its adherents Saraswati, Bharati and Puri. In addition to Sanyasis who belong to the fourth stage of life, there were "Naishthik Brahmacharis" or perpetual students attached to all Maths. This practice started by Adi Shankaracharya was followed by almost all the religious teachers since then. First in order of time was Sri Ramanujacharya,who propounded theory "qualified monism" in opposition to the "pure monism" of Adi Shankaracharya. Shankar's theory was based upon rigorous logic, recognised Supreme Brahma as the only one and absolute reality. It regarded everything else as phenomenal or illusory. Ramanuj and other Vaishnava teachers who followed him were all philosophical theists. They tried to reconcile their metaphysical doctrines with the yearnings of human heart which always requires a personal God as the supreme cause of all that exists and an eternal soul which yearns for "an approach to an union with that Being". Followers of Ramanuj are known as "Sri Vaishnavas". The object of their adoration is "Supreme" being in the form of "Vishnu" who is always associated with "Shri" or "Lakshmi". On the model of Dashnami Maths of Shankaracharya, Ramanuj founded a large number of Maths for the purpose of strengthening the doctrine propounded by him. Then came Sri Ramanand (born in 1299 A.D.), disciple of Ramanuj. He founded a sect of Vaishnavas known as "Ramats". Ramanand himself is said to have built a Math, for the "ascetics" of his sect, in Benares. The "Ramats" worship one God in the form of Ram. 259.	Ordinarily an 'ascetic' (Sanyasi) is one who renounces the world and devotes himself to religion, owns no property, no fixed place of residence and accepts such food and lodgings as are provided by pious householders. If a pious ascetic gathers around him a number of disciples whom he initiates into the mysteries or tenets of his order and such of his disciples intend to become 'ascetics', renounce all connection with their family including family wealth and completely affiliate themselves with the said spiritual teacher, a spiritual fraternity would eventually grow up. If pious, generous persons endow such a fraternity with property, it naturally vests in the Preceptor for the time being and a home is created for the brotherhood, i.e., a Math and that would lead to the constitution and building of a Math. Once the "Math" is established, succession to headship takes place within spiritual family according to the usages that grow up in a particular institution. 260.	 The term "Math" has been described in "Law Lexicon"-The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary by P. Ramanatha Aiyer (1997) at page 1205 as under: 261.	 In Sammantha Pandara Vs. Sellappa Chetti ILR 2 (1878-81) Madras 175, Madras High Court discusses origin of 'Math' as under: 262.	 Considering, what is meant by a 'Math', a Division Bench of Madras High Court in Giyana Sambandha Pandara Sannadhi Vs. Kandasami Tambiran 1887 ILR Vol. 10 Madras 375 held: 263. In Vidyapurna Tirtha Swami Vs. Vidyanidhi Tirtha Swami 1904 ILR Vol. XXVII Madras 435, Madras High Court, following its earlier decision in Sammantha Pandara Vs. Sellappa Chetti (supra), observed with respect to original growth of 'Math' in this country as under: 264.	 What has been said in Giyana Sambandha Pandara Sannadhi (supra), was followed in Kailasam Pillai Vs. Nataraja Thambiran and Ors. 1910 I.L.R. 33 Madras 265 at page 267. 265.	 Privy Council in Ram Parkash Das Vs. Anand Das and Ors. AIR 1916 Privy Council 256 had also occasion to consider about 'Math' and observed: 266. Again in Sri Vidya Varuthi Thirth Swamigal Vs. Baluswami Ayyar and Ors. AIR 1922 P.C. 123, Privy Council expressed its views on page 126 about "Maths" in the following words: 267.	 Concept of Mutt, private and public, has been considered in Bihar State Board of Religious Trust Vs. Mahant Sri Biseshwar Das , AIR 1971 SC 2057, and in para 17, Court observed : 268.	 All the aforesaid decisions were considered in Shri Krishna Singh Vs. Mathura Ahir and others 1981 (3) SCC 689=AIR 1980 SC 707. In para 19, Court concluded as under: 269. In Krishna Singh (supra), Court also observed that a Math is an institutional sanctum presided over by a superior who combines in himself the dual office of being religious or spiritual head of particular cult or religious fraternity, and of the manager of secular properties of institution of Math. It also held that the principles noticed in the above cases would make it sufficiently clear that "a math is an institutional sanctum presided over by a superior who combines in himself the dual office of being the religious or spiritual head of the particular cult or religious fraternity, and of the manager of the secular properties of the institution of the math." 270.	 A "Math" is not a Temple inasmuch it is a place for rendering charitable and religious services in general. Merely there are idols in the Math, it cannot be treated as a 'Temple'. Similarly, an institution which is in its origin a Math, cannot be treated as a temple because idols are also worshipped in the Math. Math can not be treated as a place of public religious worship mere by reason of the worship of idols. The primary purpose of a 'Math' is to encourage and foster spiritual learning by maintenance of a competent line of teachers who impart religious instructions to the disciples and followers of the Math and try to strengthen doctrines of particular school or order of which they profess to be adherents. Deity or an idol may be an essential element in a 'Math' if worship of a God in a certain form is an essential feature of religious doctrine of a certain order. The worship of God in that form would be part of their religious teaching. It would be the duty of any Math of that order to foster and encourage, otherwise it may not be necessary. This has been pointed out in 'Mukherjea's' Hindu Law (supra), 4th Edn. at page 331-332 as under : 271.	 A place of worship is not a necessary part of a Math, though it is often found in such institution and although primarily intended for the use of inmates, the public may also be admitted to such places of religious worship. (See Thamba Vs. Arundel I.L.R. 6 Mad. 287). 272.	 The presiding element in a Math is an 'ascetic' or a religious teacher, who together with his disciples and co-disciples form spiritual family. It owes its existence to benefactions or grants of property made by pious benefactors. The object of benefaction is the creation of an institution for the benefit of a fraternity of religious men at the head of which stands the superior or Mahant (also termed as "Mohunt"), who represents the entire institution. (vide Satya Charan Sarkar Vs. Mohanta Rudrananda Giri AIR 1953 Cal. 716). 273. In Shri Krishna Singh Vs. Mathura Ahir (supra), Court also quoted the relevant extracts from Mukherjea's Hindu Law (supra) as to what a "Math" would signify. It further held that the property belong to a Math is in fact attached to the office of Mahant, and passed by inheritance to no one who does not fill the office. The Head of a Math, as such, is not a trustee in the sense in which that term is generally understood, but in legal contemplation he has an estate for life in its permanent endowments and an absolute property in the income derived from the offerings of his followers, subject only to the "burden of maintaining the institution". He is bound to spend a large part of income derived from the offerings of his followers on charitable or religious objects. 274.	 The words "the burden of maintaining the institution" must be understood to include the maintenance of Math, the support of its Head and his disciples and the performance of religious and other charities in connection with it, in accordance with usage. 275.	 According to Hindu jurisprudence, religious institutions such as a "Math" is treated a "juristic entity" with a legal personality capable of holding and acquiring property. The ownership of property vests in the institution. From the very nature of Math, it can act and assert its rights only through a human agency known as "Mahant", Shebait are Dharmakarta or sometimes known as Trustee. Court, in Shri Krishna Singh (supra), quoted following observations of Bombay High Court (Jenkins, C.J.) in Babajirao Vs. Laxmandas 1904 ILR 28 Bom. 215 at 223 with approval which defines true notion of a "Math" in the following terms : 276. In H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt and others Vs. Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and others 1979 (4) SCC 642, Hon'ble P.N. Shinghal, J., in a separate judgment, though concurring with the conclusion of majority view of Constitution Bench, in para 47 observed "A Mutt is a monastic institution for the use and benefit of ascetics belonging to a particular order presided over by a superior who is its religious teacher. The Mutt property, though originally given by a donor, belongs to that spiritual family represented by the superior or Mahant. It does not, however, vest in him, as he is some sort of a "shebait", and vests in the Mutt as a juristic person." (emphasis added) 277.	 The term "Mahant" has been described in 'Law Lexicon-The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary by P. Ramanatha' (supra), on page 1161 as under: 278.	 The position of a "Mahant" of a "Math" is like that of a "Head of the institution". He is neither a corporation nor a life tenant in respect of Math property. He is also not a trustee in the sense in which the term is understood in English law. Call by whatever name, he is the manager or custodian of the institution. The property which he holds does not vest in him; it vests in the institution and is held by him as a Manager of the same. [See Vidya varyathi Vs. Baluswami (Supra)]. 279. In Krishna Singh Ahir (supra) regarding succession of Mahantship of a Math or religious institution, Court said: 280.	 According to usage, wide discretion in the application of funds of institution is possessed by "Mahant" but it is always subject to certain obligations and duties equally prescribed by customs and usages. 281.	 We may also refer to one more aspect of a Math, i.e., public and private Maths. B.K. Mukherjea in Hindu law (supra) has discussed about such Maths and observed that there can be a private Math depending upon the construction of grant, customs and usage of the institution etc. However, it has further observed, where the body is created for the benefit of public generally, Math is dedicated for the use of ascetics generally, such Math would be regarded as public institution. Maths have generally Sadavrats or arrangement for feeding and giving shelter to wayfarers and ascetics attached to them. They may also have Temples to which the public is allowed access. Such circumstances might indicate public character of endowment but nevertheless it is probable to have a private Math where endowment is not intended to confer benefit upon the public generally or even upon the members of a particular religious sect or order. 282.	So far as phrase "religious denomination" is concerned, we find that it has attained significance for use in Articles 26 and 27 of Constitution. In order to understand the expression 'religious denomination', we have to understand both the expressions, namely, 'religion' and 'denomination'. 283.	 Obviously, the words 'religion', 'denomination' and "religious denomination" are not defined in the Constitution, though they occur in Articles 15 (1) , 15 (2) , 16 (2) , 16 (5) , 23 (2) , 25 to 28, 29 (2) and 30. In order to understand their scope, it would be useful to refer aforesaid provisions as under : (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, be subject to any disability,liability, restriction or condition with regard to- (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and place of public entertainment; or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and place of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public. 16. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the State. 
 
(5) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any law which provides that the incumbent of an office in connection with the affairs of any religious or denominational institution or any member of the governing body thereof shall be a person professing a particular religion or belonging to a particular denomination. 23. (2) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from imposing compulsory service for public purposes, and in imposing such service the State shall not make any discrimination on grounds only of religion, race, caste or class or any of them. 25. (1) Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion. 
 
(2) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any existing law or prevent the State from making any law- (a) regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice; (b) providing for social welfare and reform or the throwing open of Hindu religious institutions of a public character to all classes and sections of Hindus. 26. Subject to public order, morality and health, every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right- (a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes; (b) to manage its own affairs in matter of religion; (c) to own and acquire movable and immovable property; and (d) to administer such property in accordance with law. 27. No person shall be compelled to pay any taxes, the proceeds of which are specifically appropriated in payment of expenses for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination. 28. (1) No religious instruction shall be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of State funds. 
 
(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall apply to an educational institution which is administered by the State but has been established under any endowment or trust which requires that religious instruction shall be imparted in such institution.
 
(3) No person attending any educational institution recognised by the State or receiving aid out of State funds shall be required to take part in any religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any religious worship that may be conducted in such institution or in any premises attached thereto unless such person or, if such person is a minor, his guardian has given his consent thereto. 29. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them. 30. (1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. 
 
(2) The State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language. (emphasis added) 284.	 Religion is certainly a matter of faith of individuals or communities. Religion has its basis in a system of beliefs or doctrine which are regarded by those, who profess that religion, are conducive to their spiritual well being, but it would not be correct to say that religion is nothing else but a doctrine or belief. A religion may not only lay down a code of ethical rules for its followers to accept, it might prescribe rituals and observances, ceremonies and modes of worship which are regarded as integral part of religion and these forms and observances might extend even to matters of food and dress. 285.	 The expression "religion" has been defined in the "Words and Phrases", Permanent Edition, Vol. 36-A, page 461-463 and onwards, and reads as under : 286.	 In Corpus Juris Secundum Vol. LXXVI (1952), pages 727-729, word "religion" has been described as under: 287.	 Black's Law Dictionary, Seventh Edition, page 1293 describe it as under: 288.	 Law Lexicon-The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary by P. Ramanatha Aiyer (supra) describe "religion" at page 1646-1647 as under: 289.	 In New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English Language Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition, page 841, define "religion": 290. In Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras Vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt AIR 1954 SC 282, Court in para 17 said: 291. In Ratilal Panachand Gandhi Vs. The State of Bombay and others , AIR 1954 SC 388, Court observed: 292.	 Another Constitution Bench in S.P. Mittal Vs. Union of India AIR 1983 SC 1 considered "religion" and in para 12 of judgment said : 293. In S.P. Mittal (supra) , Court also held: 294. In Most Rev. P.M.A. Metropolitan and others Vs. Moran Mar Marthoma and another , 1995 (Supple) (4) SCC 286, word 'religion' was described as under: 295. In A.S. Narayana Deekshitulu Vs. State of A.P. and others , 1996(9) SCC 548, Court described "religion" with reference to Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution as under: 296. In T.K. Gopal alias Gopi Vs. State of Karnataka , 2000 (6) SCC 168, Court said: 297. In Ms. Aruna Roy and others Vs. Union of India and others , JT 2002 (7) SC 103 it was said: 298. In P.M.A. Metropolitan (supra), Court in respect of faith and belief also observed:"Religion is founded on faith and belief. Faith emanates from conscience and belief is result of teaching and learning." (para 3) 299.	 The word "denomination" has been described in Black's Law Dictionary Seventh Edition on page 446 as under: 300.	 In "Words and Phrases", Permanent Edition, Vol. 12 (1962), page 105, defines it as under : 301.	 The Law Lexicon-The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary by P. Ramanatha Aiyer (supra) describes "denomination" on page 521: 302.	 New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of English Language, Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition, at page 256 defined the word "denomination" as under: 303.	 The term "denomination" came to be considered in Bramchari Sidheswar Shai and others Vs. State of West Bengal AIR 1995 SC 2089 and in para 14 of judgement, referring to Oxford Dictionary, Court quoted from Sri Shirur Mutt (supra) as under : 304. In Sri Adi Visheshwara of Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Varanasi and others Vs. State of U.P. and others , 1997(4) SCC 606 Court said: 305.	 In Corpus Juris Secundum Vol. LXXVI (1952) on page 738 the word "religious sect or denomination" has been described as under: Persuasion. In religious affairs, a creed or belief; hence a sect or party adhering to a creed or system of opinions." 306.	 The word "religious denomination or religious sect" has been described in Words and Phrases Permanent Edition Vol. 36A (1962) on page 479: Within Const. Art. 1 , § 1, par. 14, providing that no money shall be taken from the public treasury in aid of any church, sect, denomination, or sectarian institution, a "religious sect" is a body or number of persons united in tenets and constituting a distinct organization or party holding sentiments or doctrines different from those of other sects or people, and having a common system of faith. Every such sect is "sectarian," and a "church" is an organization for religious purposes or for the public worship of God. Benett v. City of La Grange, 112 S.E. 482, 485, 153 Ga. 428, 22 A.L.R. 1312." 307.	 The term "religious sect" is described in the Law Lexicon-The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary by P. Ramanatha Aiyer (supra) at page 1648 as under: 308.	 In New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of the English Language Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition at page 841 the word "religious" has been described as under: 309.	 The term "religious denomination" came up for consideration in Sri Shirur Mutt (Supra) and after referring to Oxford Dictionary, Court observed that the meaning of "religious denomination" is a collection of individuals classed together under the same name; a religious sect or body having a common faith and organization and designated by a distinctive name. Court held that different sects or sub-sects can certainly be called a religious denomination as it is designated by a distinctive name, has a common faith and common spiritual organization. 310. In S.P. Mittal (supra), Court also considered the term 'religious denomination' and said: 311. In S. R. Bommai and others Vs. Union of India and others AIR 1994 SC 1918 and M/s Radhasoami Satsang, Saomi Bagh, Agra Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax 1992 (1) SCC 659 the aforesaid tests for determination of "religious denomination" were reiterated. 312. In Nallor Marthandam Vellalar and others Vs. Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and others 2003 (10) SCC 712, it was held that the words "religious denomination" take their colour from the word "religion". Court further said that the expression "religious denomination" must satisfy three requirements- (1) it must be collection of individuals, who have a system of beliefs or doctrine which they regard as conducive to their spiritual well-being, i.e. a common faith, (2) a common organization; and (3) designation of a distinctive name. It necessarily follows that the common faith of the community should be based on religion in that they should have common religious tenets and basic cord which connects them, should be religion and not merely consideration of caste of community or social status. 313.	 Following the view taken with regard to "religious denomination" in Sri Shirur Mutt (supra), a three-Judge Bench in Acharya Jagdishwaranand Avadhuta and others Vs. Commissioner of Police, Calcutta and another 1983 (4) SCC 522 held that "Ananda Marg", which is a collection of individuals who have a system of beliefs which they regard as conducive to their spiritual well being; a common organization; a definite name could be regard as a "religious denomination" within Hindu religion as it satisfies the test laid down by the Constitution Bench in Sri Shirur Mutt (supra). 314. In Bramchari Sidheswar Shai (supra), Court held that Ram Krishna Mission is also a "religious denomination", and while expressing so, Court in para 51 of judgment said : 315.	 It may be noticed at this stage the scope of judicial review about what constitutes 'religious belief' or what is essential religious practices or what rites and ceremonies are essential according to the tenets of a particular religion, is not subject to the belief or faith of a judge but once it is found that a belief, faith, rite or ceremony is genuinely and consciously treated to be part of profession or practice of a religion by the segment of people of distinct group, believing in that particular religion, suffice it to constitute "religion" within the term of Article 25 of the Constitution whereunder the persons of the said segment have a fundamental right to practice their religion without any interruption from State. This right is subject only to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions of Part III of the Constitution as well as the power of the State to make laws in respect of the matter provided in Article 25(2) of the Constitution. This right is conferred to the persons professing, practising and propagating the concerned religion. 316. In Jamshed Ji Vs. Soonabai , (1909) 22 Bom 122 Hon'ble Davar, J., in respect of the belief of a community regarding 'religion' observed: 317.	 The above view has been quoted with approval in Ratilal Panachand Gandhi (supra) and in Bijoe Emmanuel and others Vs. State of Kerala and others , 1986(3) SCC 615 wherein after quoting the above observation, Court approved the same in the following words: 318.	 The contents and scope of Articles 25 and 26 of Constitution have been considered in a number of decisions and it would be suffice to refer a Constitution Bench decision in Sardar Syedna Tahel Saifuddin Saheb Vs. State of Bombay , AIR 1962 SC 853 wherein, referring to its earlier decisions, in para 34, Court observed: 319.	 Here referring as to what constitute "religious denomination", Court also observed that the identity of a "religious denomination" consists in the identity of its doctrine, creeds and tenets and these are intended to ensure unity of the faith which its adherents profess and the identity of religious views and bonds of union which binds them together as one community. In the absence of conformity to essentials, the denomination would not be an entity cemented into solidity by harmonious uniformity of opinion, it would be a mere incongruous heap of, as it were, grains of sand, thrown together without being united, each of these intellectual and isolated grains differing from every other, and the whole forming nominally united while really unconnected mass; fraught with nothing but internal dissimilitude, and mutual and reciprocal contradiction and dissension. (This is a quote from the passage of Lord Halsbury in Free Church of Scotland Vs. Overtoun; 1904 AC 515 which in turn refer to the observations of "Smith B." in Dill Vs. Watson, (1836) 2 Jones Rep. (Ir Ex) 48). 320.	 Court further observed that a denomination within Article 26 and persons who are members of that denomination are under Article 25 entitled to ensure continuity of denomination and such continuity is possible only by maintaining bond of religious discipline which would secure that continued adherence of its members to certain essentials like faith, doctrine, tenets and practices. The right guaranteed by Article 25(1) is not confined to freedom of conscience in the sense of the right to hold a belief and to propagate that belief, but includes right to the practice of religion, the consequences of that practice must also bear the same complexion and be the subject of a like guarantee. 321. In Sardar Sarup Singh and others Vs. State of Punjab and others , AIR 1959 SC 860 another Constitution Bench observed that freedom of religion in our Constitution is not confined to religious beliefs only but extends to essential religious practices as well subject to the restriction which the Constitution has laid down. Referring to Shirur Mutt (supra) it also held that a religious denomination or organization enjoys complete autonomy in the matter of deciding as to what rites and ceremonies are essential according to the tenets of the religion they hold. Similarly referring to Venkataramana Devaru Vs. State of Mysore, AIR 1958 SC 255 the court said that matters of religion in Article 26(b) include practices essential according to the community as part of its religion. (d) About Mathamnaya-Mahanushasan 322. It is in the context of above discussion, issue relating to status of instructions contained in "Mathamnaya Mahanushasan" has to be examined , whether constitute established customs and usages having force of law in respect of religious denomination, with which we are concerned, i.e. whether with respect to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth established by Adi Shankaracharya, any custom and usage, otherwise than the written instructions contained in the above books of command, has been proved by any of parties so as to prevail over the instructions contained in aforesaid books of command. 323.	Though plaintiff has claimed that Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan are the books containing commands of Adi Shankaracharya, governing four Peethas established by him which are called "Amnaya" (teaching of Vedas) and Peetham (seats of teaching of Vedas) and in written statement appellant has said that these are not mandatory commands but only recommendatory but during evidence it has been admitted by several witnesses of both parties that these books contain commands of high degree of reverence and they have been followed traditionally in all the four Peethas strictly and must be observed. 324.	Plaintiff said that "Mahanushasanam", is the book of Law which has been left by Adi Shankaracharya, founder of Shardamath-Dwarka, Goverdhanmath-Puri, Shringerimath-Shringer and Jyotirmath Badarikashram for proper governance and functioning thereof. This sacred book is a written Constitution of said four Peeths/Maths established by Adi Shankaracharya. 325.	Mathamnayasetu and Mahanushasan edited and translated in Hindi by Padmshri Acharya Baldeo Upadhyay was published as Appendics 'Gha' to "Shri Shankar Digvijaya" of Madhavacharya in its 1st Edition 1943 and 3rd Edn. 1985 (hereinafter referred as "Mathamnay" Hindi Edn). 1st Edn. Of Parmeshwar Nath Mishra's Sharda Bhashya, an English Commentary of Mathamnayasetu or Mahanushasanam along with its text and English translation was published by Shri Sadanand Brahmchari in the year 2001 of Christ Era (hereinafter referred as "Mathamanay English Edn.") Save and except verse nos. 65 and 72 of Mathamnay English Edn., all other verses are found in "Mathamnay Hindi Edn.", though method of numbering is different. Herein verses number of Mathamanay "English Edn." have been referred. Some of the relevant verses, i.e., 38, 55, 61 and 63 of "Mathamanya-Mahanushasan" reads as under: 326.	Meaning of word "Mathamnay Setu" or "Mathamnay-Mahanushasan" breaking the words in "Math-Amnay-Setu" and "Maha-Anushasanam" have been explained as under: ^^mUgha Hkwrksa dk ;g ikyf;rk&j{kk djus okyk gS ;g lsrq gS] fdu fo'ks"k.kksa okyk lsrq gSA lks Jqfr crykrh gS&fo/kj.k vFkkZr~ o.kkZJekfn O;oLFkk dk fo/kkj.k djus okyk ; ;gh ckr Jqfr dgrh gS&bu HkwyksZd ls ysdj czg~eyksdi;ZUr yksdksa ds vlEHksn ds fy;s vFkkZr~ e;kZnk dk Hksnu u gksus ds fy;sA ;fn ijes'oj lsrq ds leku yksdksa dk fo/kkj.k u djsa rks mudh e;kZnk VwV tk; vr% yksdksa ds vlEHksn fy;s ;g ijes'oj] tks fd Lo;a T;ksfr vkRek gh gS] lsrqLo:i gSA bl izdkj tkuus okyk o'kh gS & bR;kfn okD; ls ;g czg~efo|k dk Qy gh fn[kk;k x;k gSA**
 
"This is nourisher-protector of those very entities. This is a bridge, which characteristics it possesses? Shruti says- Vidharan which determines Varnashram system; So the Shruti says, so as not to violate the the proprieties of all these earthly worlds upto the ethereal ones. If the Almighty, like the bridge, does not delineate the worlds, then the proprieties would get violated. Therefore, for the maintenance of the proprieties of all the worlds, the Almighty who is luminous, works as a bridge. The knower of this is the one who has controlled senses; from this expression the result of spiritual knowledge stands shown. (English translation by Court) (b) According to Monier- Williams lsrq Setu-means; binding, who or what binds or fetters, fixed rule. (c) According to V.S. Apte lsrq% means fuf'pr fu;e ;k fof/k] loZ lEer izFkkA (iv) Mahaa means 'great, might, and strong (v) vuq'kklu means 'Command; Aadesh, Niyam, Vidhi (a) According to Adi Shankaracharya osnkuq'kklue~ (Ved+ Anushasan) means i.e. Command of the Vedas. (b) Acc has ording to Monier Williams e;kZnk maryuada-Means: the bounds or limits of morality and propriety, rule or custom, distinct law or definition, a covenant, agreement, bond, contract, continuance in the right way, propriety of conduct. (c) y{k.ke~& Lakshana- means: characteristic, attribute, quality, possessed of . (d) fo/kkue~&Vi-dhana-Dhayin, mfn. Means: regulating prescribing, containing an injunction or ordinance with regard to (comp), Nyayas. (e) According to V.S. Apte y{k.ke~ - means fo'ks"krk] [kwch Js"Brk] mRd"kZ] 'kqHk y{k.kksa ls ;qDrA
 
"According to V.S. Apte Lakshanam means specialty, goodness, greatness, rise and possessing good qualities." 
 
(English translation by Court) (f) fo/kkue~& O;oLFkk djuk] fu;e] mins'k] v/;kns'k] /kkfeZd fu;e ;k fof/k] fu"ks/k& euq- 9@148 Hkx- 16@24, 17@24 +
 
"To manage, rule, sermon, ordinance, religious rule or law, prohibition (Manu.9/148 Bhag.16/24A 17/24)" (English translation by Court) 327.	In "Mathamnaya Mahanushanam", Adi Shankaracharya has said that 'ascetic' with requisite qualifications, duly ascended on His Divinity's any of four Veidic monasteries, shall be deemed that he is nonelse but 'Shankaracharya'. By this religious command Adi Shankaracharya made 'Shankaracharya; a "Daivee Padavi".
 
^^vLeRihBlek:<% ifjozkMqDry{k.k% A vgesosfr foKs;ks ^;L; nso* bfrJqrs%AA51AA
 
mDr ¼48 osa 'yksd esa fufnZ"V½ y{k.kksa ls lEiUu laU;klh esjs ihB ij vklhu gks rks mls ^eSa ¼'kadj½ gh gwW* ¼bl izdkj esjk gh Lo:i½ le>uk pkfg;s] D;ksafd ¼bl lEcU/k esa½ ^;L; nso* bR;kfn Jqfr izek.k gS&
 
Excellent renouncer endowed with aforesaid Supreme knowledge ascended on my Seat should be fully known as ' He is I' i.e. Shankar (in this respect) 'Yasya Dev' Shruit is testimony. (51) 
 
^;L; nsos ijkHkfDr;ZFkknsos rFkk xqjkS A rL;Srs dfFkrk g~;FkkZ% izdk'kUrs egkReu%AA
 
¼'osrk'orjksifu"kn~ v-6@23½
 
vFkkZr~ ftls vius b"Vnso esa ijeHkfDr gS] rFkk tSlh b"Vnso esa gS oSlh xq: esa Hkh gS] mlh 'kq)kRek O;fDr dks dgs x;s ;s ¼mifu"kn~ ds½ rkRi;Z le> esa vkrs gSaA**
 
"He who has supreme devotion to the Deity, and as much of it to the Guru as to the Deity, to him indeed, to the great souled one these subject matters that have been spoken become revealed." (Shvetasvatar Upanishad. 6.23)
 
				 (English Translation by Court) 328.	Here Acharya Shankar has given testimony of the Revelation, "Shvetasvatar Upanishad" which says; 'Who has as much steadfast faith and unartificial devotion in the Spiritual master as in selfuminous Supreme Lord, only that great soul can realize the substance of the aforesaid instruction'. After quoting this verse of "Svetashvatar Upanishad" in his commentary on Vis. 'Sahasranam", Acharya says thus it is also proved by the hymn of Svetashvatar Upanishad. That one should have excellent supreme devotion in the Supreme Self (Sri Hari) and in the Spiritual Master (ibid Comm. Onverse 14/Name 1). Hence there is command of Acharya Shankar that each of the four Acharyas ascended on his aforesaid four seats respectively must be known as 'Acharya' Shankar himself i.e. an incarnation of Acharya Shankar. In this verse as also in other verses of this Command the word 'Parivard' means "Paramhams Parivajak" i.e. excellent Renouncer who excels all four stages of life, because only such types of Renouncers are entitled for being initiated with "Great Motto". Acharya says: 329.	Adi Shankaracharya says that 'not that anyone can himself be appointed by any sentences arising out of his own wisdom, nor is well versed master can be appointed by his ignorant servant. 
 
^^ - -u fg LofoKkuksRFksu oplk Lo;a fu;qT;rsA ukfi cgqfoRLokE;foosfduk Hk`R;suA
 
vkEuk; fuR;Ros lfr LokrU«;kRlokZUizfr fu;ksDr`RolkeF;Zfefr ps= mRdnks"kkr~A - - vius foKku ls mRiUu gq, opu ls gh dksbZ Lo;a fu;qDr ugha gks ldrk vkSj u cgqK Lokeh gh vius vYiK lsod ls fu;qDr gks ldrk gSA**
 
".......Not that anyone can himself be appointed by any sentence issued out of his own wisdom, nor is a very -learned Master can be appointed by his servant of limited knowledge." 330.	In this backdrop it is pointed out that Shankaracharya can be selected and appointed by a person having same and similar qualifications and of the same stature. In Verse 52 of "Mathamnaya Setu or Mahanushasanam" it has been said (a)^^,d ,okfHk"ksP;% L;knUrs y{k.klEer%A rRrRihBs dzes.kSo u cgq ;qT;rs Dofpr~AA52AA
 
"At last according to Supreme Knowledge one should be consecrated on concerned Peeth in succession, on no occasion more than one should be appointed."
 
vfHk"ksp~- Abhi-shic -means to consecrate, anoint, appoint by consecration. ^^vfHk"ksd% ¼vfHk$flp~$?k´~½ means 2- jkT;fryd djuk] jktk ;k ewfrZ vkfn dk tyflapu }kjk izfr"Bkiu] 3- ¼fo'ks"kr%½ jktkvksa dk flagklukjksg.k] izfr"Bkiu] ijkjksg.k] jkT;fryd laLdkj]A And vfHk"ksd ¼fo-½ means jkT;fHkf"kRd] ;Fkkfof/k in ij izfrf"Br fd;k gqvkA** (Abhishekah means (Abhi+sinch+n), 2. To perform coronation, installation of King or Idol consecrating with water. 3. (Particularly) enthronement of Kings, installation, coronation ceremony and Abhishekah means Coronation, anointed in an office according to rules prescribed). (English translation by Court) (b)^^u fg LofoKkuksRFksu oplk Lo;a fu;qT;rsA ukfi cgqfoRLokE;foosfduk Hk`R;suA**
 
^^vius foKku ls mRiUu gq, opu ls gh dksbZ Lo;a fu;qfDr ugha gks ldrk vkSj u cgqK Lokeh gh vius vYiK lsod ls fu;qDr gks ldrk gSA**
 
"Not that anyone can himself be appointed by any sentence issued out of his own wisdom, nor is a very -learned Master can be appointed by his servant of limited knowledge." (Hindi and English translation by Court) 331.	In "Mathamnayasetu" and "Mahanushasanam" Adi Shankar- -acharya has laid down that at the end of one Shankaracharya, another Shankaracharya shall be appointed by Consecration and on one seat only one Shankaracharya can be appointed at a time because as observed in above verse no one can himself be appointed by any sentence issuing out of his own wisdom, nor a very learned Master can be appointed by his servant having limited knowledge. 332.	Abhishek is a Vedic religious ritual, whereby Rulers of Dharma, Gods, Men, etc. are appointed. By way of Abhishek, a reigning Shankaracharya of any of four Vedic Peethas of Adi Shankaracharya imbibes divine powers of Adi Shankaracharya in the qualified Renouncer and thereby grants him status to attain Shankaracharyaship, which status confers upon consecrated person, capacity to acquire majesty of Shankaracharya and ascend on the seat of Adi Shankaracharya by attaining Godship. 333.	According to Rigved's 	Aitereya, Brahman Abhishekam is always done by the superior. In olden days, Prajapati sprinkled (consecrated) Indra, Soma the king, Varuna, Yama, Manu. 334.	Following command in Verse 55 (supra), king Sudhanva had issued a Charter i.e. Firman or King's writ being dated Udhisthir Era 2663 Ashwin Shukla 15 wherefrom it becomes clear that 1st set of four Acharyas of four Monasteries established by Adi Shankaracharya were Yogi, Sarvajna and, Adi Shankaracharya had appointed them by way of consecrating each of them on their respective Math. Relevant portion of sad Charter reads as follows: 335.	Sudhanva was the king of Mahismati, which is presently known as Maheshwar in State of Madhya Pradesh. In the Genealogical list of Chahman Dynasty reproduced by historian 'Shyamal Das' in his book " History of Mewar" published in the year 1886, king Sudhanva comes at serial no. 6. In the said list, first king is Chahman and 41st king is Vasudev. Another historian 'Dr. Dasarath Sharma' has produced another list of Chahman Dynasty on the basis of available stone and copper plate inscriptions of kings of said Dynasty starting from the aforesaid king Vasudev. According to this Genealogical list great emperor Prithviraj Chahman is the king of 22nd generation of Vasudev Dytnasty. 336.	After amalgamation of these two lists, we find that King Sudhanva whose name has been referred by Adi Shankaracharya as 'contemporary ruler' in his book 'Mathamnaya' and 'Mahanushasanam' comes on serial no. 6, King Vasudev comes on serial no.41 and Prithviraj Chahman comes on serial no. 62. 337.	In the aforesaid verse it has been said that at the end of his rule, outgoing Shankaracharya should install new Shankaracharya by way of consecration on concerned seat. In 'Vimarhs' written by 73rd Shankaracharya of Shardamath-Dwarka in the year 1896 AD, on page 25 to 28, an authoritative reproduction of 9th Century's list of Acharya along with chronology of Acharya Shankar's life has been published, wherein, it has been mentioned that on three respective dates each of 1st set of four Acharyas were consecrated on respective seats. Similar fact has been recorded in the Copper Plate of king Sudhanva dated back 475 B.C. Apart from this, 8th Century's narrative which has been reproduced in the book "Shankaracharya Charitram", on page 10 and 11, written by Pandit Venkatachal Sharma of Mysore in the year 1914, also supports the facts of handing over power of aforesaid four monasteries to 1st set of four Acharyas respectively by Acrharya Shankar himself by way of consecration. 338. Sri Manish Goel however submitted that Mahanushasan is not a work connected with books of command and the word 'Setu' has been wrongly interpreted by Sri Mishra, counsel appearing for plaintiff. He pointed out that there are 110 Upnishads but Adi Shankaracharya in his Shankar Bhasya has noted only 11 Upnishads. It is submitted that Adi Shakaracharya has simplified message of Vedas, Upnishads and propagated thereof also in a simplified manner. The words and phrases used in "Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan" must be understood in the light as to how Adi Shankaracharya understood the same at the relevant time. He referred to "Shankaracharya Sarvasnam" a compilation of texts written by Adi Shankaracharya. According to it one has to follow commands like Sadacharanushasan. Sri Goel referred to verses 16, 6, 17, 44, 45, 52 in reference to words 'Sanyasi', 'Suchi', 'Vairagya', 'Gyan' 'Vigyan' and Brahmchari respectively. He also submitted the term 'Sanyasi' must be understood in the manner used in Bhagwat Geeta, Chapter 18 Verse 1 i.e. 'Tyag' and further Verses 4,5,7,9,10 and 11. He also pointed out that Mathamnaya-Mahanushasan, Eng. Edn., which is a commentary of Sri Mishra, there is a description of more than 26 slokas of Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan than shown in original. He also raised objection that there is no reference of said books in the plaint and reference thereof in amendment was also rejected, hence contention with regard to those books of command cannot be looked into since pleadings are not in accordance with Order 6 Rule 9 CPC . Therefore, entire case built up by plaintiff on the basis of instructions/commands contained in Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan is of no substance. 339.	This last contention is not correct. Reference of Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan, we find specifically in the plaint and there is also assertion positively that appellant lacks suitability in qualification, prescribed in the said books. With regard to details of disqualification, facts have been stated in replication and appellant had also filed an additional written statement after more than 10 years of filing replication which was accepted by Court below. Therein he has also submitted reply with regard to various disqualifications and thereafter both parties have led evidence thereto. Therefore contention that pleadings with regard to aforesaid books is lacking in the plaint is contrary to record. 340.	Further whether Adi Shankaracharya actually wrote Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan or not is a question of fact and having antiquity of atleast more than 1200 years, we find no sufficient material to express any final opinion on this aspect but since even witnesses of appellants have admitted that they contains commands of Adi Shankaracharya (we will demonstrate evidence little later) it can be safely held these books of commands are continuing to hold field and followed for the last several centuries. It is also not in dispute that they contain instructions regarding appointment, removal and management of four Amnaya Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya. Therefore, there is no reason but to hold that instructions contained in the aforesaid books are established customs or usages having force of law operating and applicable to Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and concerned religious denomination with which we are concerned. In this regard the own statement of appellant himself may be reproduced hereat.
 
*eBkEuk; egkuq'kklu ds jpf;rk Jh ek/kkokpk;Z th gS tks 'kadj fnfXot; ds vUrxZr of.kZr gSA 
 
" Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan which is part of "Shankar Digvijay" is composed by Sri Madhwacharya." 341. Appellant DW-3 has further said in reply to a question as under: 342.	In view of above discussion, we find it irrelevant 'whether instructions/commands contained in Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan are mandatory or recommendatory, for the reason that these instructions satisfy the nature of customs or usages having force of law operating to govern selection, appointment, removal of Shankaracharya of four Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya and management/regulation thereof. That being so, it is a law which substantially need be observed. Any flagrant violation thereof would render particular act illegal having no consequences in law. One of the important condition in respect thereof, we find, that evidence adduced by both parties clearly prove, that in order to qualify for installation of Shankaracharya in the aforesaid four Peethas, one must be a 'Sanyasi' (Dandi Sanyasi) having knowledge of Sanskrit and well conversant in religious scriptures like Vedas, Puranas etc. Since this concept of 'Sanyasi' is one of the relevant issue with regard to qualification of appellant, we now propose to consider its meaning and also characteristics and ingredients of a 'Sanyasi'. (e) Sanyasi i.e. Ascetic- what is 343.	The concept of 'Sanyasi' is as old as the mankind and earliest one in this concept is said to be Lord Shiva. 344.	A Sanyasi is a person who has crossed all worldly attachments. Mere wearing a saffron cloth or growing beard and moustaches or wandering here and there and staying in Temples or Mutts would not confer a Sanyashood upon an individual. A Sanyasi must take a conscious decision to give up all worldly affairs. A person gets sanyas when he sheds the 'I', 'me' and 'mine' consciousness and vows to selflessly strive for the betterment of society. A sanyasi is initiated into sanyasam at the initiative of Guru and through strict rituals, practised since Vedic times. Sanyasam is said as ancient as anything, but in the context of Sanatan Dharma, we find continuity at least from the time of Adi Shankaracharya. In our ancient historical epic 'Ramayana', we cannot forget changed Roop of Ravana as 'Sanyasi' to take away Seeta to Lanka. It cannot be said that in that Roop, Ravana actually depicted a true 'Sanyasi'. Traditionally, for the person living social life, he was defined to have four stages and fourth stage was 'Sanyas'. 345.	A 'Sanyasi' is technically outside the social field. He is outside social divisions or categories, and its rules. He does not have any social bond as such, though he can raise his meal through accepting alms and by attending people's houses as a guest. A sanyasi is not supposed to stay long in any single place, he should be continuously moving so that he is not attached to any person or place. This is why a sanyasi is, in fact, called "parivrajaka", one that roams and is never settled in a place. The goal of a sanyasi is liberation, and nothing else. He should have no desires, temptations, ambitions, other than liberation. In different schools of Sanyas, there may be a few different traditions and practices, but basic concept of Sanyas is common. 346.	Sri Manish Goel submitted that a Sanyasi need not be looked into the term of "Sanyasopnishad" since term "Sanyas" is also referred to in "Bhagvadgeeta" in different context. Chapter-5 verse-2, chapter-5 verse-4, chapter-6 verse-2 and chapter-18 verse-2 are the places where term "Sanyasi" or "Sanyas" has been used in terms of Tyag. We find that in the context, in totality of term, "Sanyasi", nothing is different but to renounce worldly desires, rewards of Karm etc. 347.	So far as word "Sanyas" is concerned, we find that it is also referred in "Bhiksuka Upanishad" of Sukla Yajurveda, "Naradaparivrajaka Upanishad" of Atharvanaveda, and "Aruneyi Upanishad" of Atharva-veda. 348.	In Vishnu Purana, Chapter 9, four stages of life are mentioned as Brahmacharya, Grihastha, Vanaprastha and Sanyasa. Vanaprastha is treated to be a stage of preparation of Sanyas. It says, when the householder, after performing the acts incumbent on his condition, arrives at the decline of life, let him consign his wife to the care of his sons, and go himself to the forests. Let him there subsist upon leaves, roots, and fruit; and suffer his hair and beard to grow, and braid the former upon his brows; and sleep upon the ground: his dress must be made of skin or of Káśa or Kuśa grasses; he must bathe thrice a day; he must offer oblations to the gods and to fire, treat all that come to him with hospitality: he must beg alms, and present food to all creatures: he must anoint himself with such unguents as the woods afford; and in his devotional exercises he must be endurant of heat and cold. The sage who diligently follows these rules, leads the life of hermit or Vánaprastha, consumes, like fire, all imperfections, and conquers for himself the mansions of eternity. Let the unimpassioned man, relinquishing all affection for wife, children, and possessions, enter the fourth order. Let him forego the three objects of human existence, pleasure, wealth, and virtue, whether secular or religious, and, indifferent to friends, be the friend of all living beings. Let him, occupied with devotion, abstain from wrong in act, word, or thought, to all creatures, human or brute; and equally avoid attachment to any. Let him reside but for one night in a village, and not more than five nights at a time in a city; and let him so abide, that good-will, and not animosity, may be engendered. Let him, for the support of existence, apply for alms at the houses of three first castes, at the time when fires have been extinguished, and people have eaten. Let the wandering mendicant call nothing his own, and suppress desire, anger, covetousness, pride, and folly. The sage who gives no cause for alarm to living beings need never apprehend any danger from them. Having deposited the sacrificial fire in his own person, the Brahman feeds the vital flame, with the butter that is collected as alms, through the altar of his mouth; and by means of his spiritual fire he proceeds to his own proper abode. But the twice-born man, who seeks for liberation, and is pure of heart, and whose mind is perfected by self-investigation, secures the sphere of Brahmá, which is tranquil, and is as a bright flame that emits not smoke. 349.	In "Srimadabhagavata" also, we may look into certain characteristics of 'Sanyasi' in 7th Skandh, Chapter-13, Verses 2 to 10 as under: i';snkReU;nks fo'oa ijs lnlrks·O;;sA
 
vkRekua p ija czg~e loZ= lnlU;e;sAA4AA
 
"The sannyāsī should always try to see the Supreme pervading everything and see everything, including this universe, resting on the Supreme.(4)" ukfHkuansn~ /kzqoa ok·L; thfore~A
 
dkya ija izrh{ksr Hkwrkuka izHkokI;;e~AA6AA
 
"Since the material body is sure to be vanquished and the duration of one's life is not fixed, neither death nor life is to be praised. Rather, one should observe the eternal time factor, in which the living entity manifests himself and disappears.(6)" u f'k";kuuqc/uhr xzaFkku~ uSokH;lsnCgwu~A
 
u O;k[;keqi;qathr ukjaHkkukjHksRDrfpr~AA8AA
 
"A sannyāsī must not present allurements of material beneits to gather many disciples, nor should he unnecessarily read many books or give discourses as a means of livelihood. He must never attempt to increase material opulences unnecessarily.(8)" vO;Drfyaxks O;DrkFkksZa euh";qUeRrckyor~A
 
 dfoewZdonkRekua l n`"V;k n'kZ;s=`.kke~AA10AA
 
"Although a saintly person may not expose himself to the vision of human society, by his behavior his purpose is disclosed. To human society he should present himself like a restless child, and although he is the greatest thoughtful orator, he should present himself like a dumb man.(10)" 350.	 The meaning of the word "ascetic" in Oxford English-English-Hindi Dictionary (2008) on page 64 is as under: 351. In New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary of English Language, Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition, at page 53, the word "ascetic" has been described as under: 352.	Learned counsel for plaintiff stated that the concept of 'Sanyas' is peculiar to Sanatan Dharma and has its antiquity as back as origin of Dharma itself. The three principal divine powers which are worshiped in Sanatan Dharma i.e Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesh, look into Lord Mahesh as greatest Sanyasi who lives in exile, observing a life almost alone from society. 353.	Importance of Sanyasis has been of so much significance that an entire Upnishad has been devoted to it i.e. commonly known as 'Sanyasopnishad'. He briefly submitted that kinds of Sanyas, the life which a particular kind of Sanyasi is supposed to observe, and other commands which a Sanyasi has to follow are contained in 'Sanyasopnishad. Certain verses thereof have been relied to support the point that a person claiming to become 'Shankaracharya' must be a 'Sanyasi', observing all kinds of commands mentioned in the aforesaid verses of 'Sanyasopnishad'. 354.	This Upnishad is related to the tradition of Samaveda. There are two chapters in it. The contents of first chapter are an introduction of reclusion procedure for obtaining a behaviour as also pragmatic activities required for it. The second chapter is with prolix details. Its opening has been made with four means i.e. discretion, reluctance, six properties and desire for emancipation. A detailed description on the criterion for reclusion has been given. While describing kinds of recluse, classification in (i) reluctant recluse (ii) knowledge recluse (iii) the recluse enriched with the knowledge and dettachment and the recluse who observes it in his activities, have been explained. Later on six types of reclusion i.e. Kutika, Bahudaka, Hamsa, Paramahamsa, Turiyatita and Avadhuta have been described in an orderly manner. The position of knowledge on soul or self realization as also its nature has been described. The holiness in behaviour and a provision to satiate with lesser food obtained on alms has been described. It is suggested that one should engross himself on the soul daily and by putting a strict control on activities as also on diet. 355.	'Sanyasopnishad' Chapter 1 consists of only one verse-1. Chapter 2 contains from verses 2 to 123. 356.	Verse contained in Chapter 1 is as under: 357.	Relevant verses of Chapter 2 are as under: 358.	The relevant verses from Sanyasopnishad show that a Sanyasi is a person who after following the procedure of adopting celibacy has gone in reclusion and abandoned all his worldly relations and has to follow regulated life in respect whereto broad instructions are contained in 'Sanyasopnishad'. Some relevant verses in relations thereof we have already quoted above. 359.	Broadly, even witnesses of both the parties have also deposed similarly. Who can be a ''Sanyasi' and how he should regulate his life, in this regard, plaintiff's witnesses who have deposed are PW-3, Sri Kameshwar Nath Mishra, PW-10 Swami Sri Ishwaranand Tirth, PW-17 Swami Sri Vishuddhanand Saraswati, PW-20 Sri C.V. Giridhar Shastri, PW-21 Sri Balram Pandey and PW-35 Sri Rajendra Prasad Dwivedi Shastri. The relevant deposition of aforesaid plaintiff witnesses is as under: 360.	Similarly, on the question of characteristics and also the meaning of word 'Sanyasi', oral evidence deposed by appellant's own witnesses is also relevant. The relevant extract thereof may be produced from the statements of DW 1, DW 3 i.e. appellant himself, DW 6, DW 16, DW 22, DW 25, DW 31, DW 32, DW 35, DW 36 and DW 37.
 
DW-1 Swami Sri Vimaldevashram
 
"vkfnxq: 'kadjkpk;Z cky czg~epkjh FksA lU;kl ysus ds mijkUr lU;klh dk iwoZ vkJe ls lEcU/k lekIr gks tkrk gS mldk x`gLFk okyk uke lekIr gks tkrk gSA lU;kl ds mijkUr mldh lkalfjd e`R;qeku yh tkrh gSA lU;kl ds mijkUr mls xq: ds }kjk tks uke feyrk gSA mlh ds }kjk tkuk tkrk gSA lkalfjd e`R;q ;k gks tkus ds dkj.k lU;klh Hkh iSr`d lEcU/kh esa lU;klh dk ekfydkuk gd lekIr gks tkrk gSA ,oa mldh lEifRr dk ekfyd mlds iq= vkfn lU;klh dk 'kjhj gks tkus ij Hkh gks tkrs gSaA lU;kl ysus ds ckn lU;klh vius x`gLFk okys uke ls osru okyh ukSdjh ugha dj ldrk gSA --- lU;kl ds ckn lU;klh L=h laHkksx ugha dj ldrk gS lU;klh fons'k ;k=k ugha dj ldrk gSA --- ,slk O;fDr tks lU;klh ghu gks mldk vfHk"ksd 'kadjkpk;Z ds :i esa ugha fd;k tk ldrk gSA" ¼isij ua0&644 d] ist&3½
 
Aadiguru Shankaracharya was a Brahmachari since childhood (Baal Brahmachari). After taking Sanyaas (renunciation), a Sanyaasi ceases to have connection with his previous ashram and his Grihasth name comes to an end. After taking Sanyaas, he is considered to be dead from the worldly point of view. After taking Sanyaas, he is known by the name which is given by his Guru. He is then known by the same name only. After the Sanyaasi being dead from the worldly point of view, his ownership right to his ancestral property ceases. His sons and others become owner of his property after Sanyaas being taken by him. After taking Sanyaas, a Sanyaasi can't do any salaried job with his social name. After taking Sanyaas, a Sanyaasi can't have intercourse with any woman. A Sanyaasi can't travel abroad. Abhishek as Shankaracharya can't be performed of a person who is not a Sanyaasi.
 
(Paper No. 644 Ka, Page 3)
 
^^lU;klh ds fy, lknk Hkkstu ds vykok lc oftZr gSA lkns Hkkstu esa nw/k ngh Hkh oftZr gSA lU;klh flQZ idk gqvk Hkkstu [kk ldrk gSA** ¼isij ua0&644 d] ist&7½
 
"Everything is prohibited for a Sanyaasi except simple meals. Even milk and curd are also prohibited in simple meals. A Sanyaasi can eat cooked meals only." 
 
(Paper No. 644 Ka, Page 7)
 
DW-3 Swami Sri Vasudevanand Saraswati (Appellant)
 
XXX
 
^^mRrj&vkt rd fdlh dk;Zjr 'kadjkpk;Z us fdlh xSj lU;klh dks ihB ij vf/k"Bkfir ugha fd;k gS vkSj ;g ijaijk ugha gSA** ¼isij ua0&661 d] ist&71½
 
Answer: No presiding Shankaracharya has consecrated any person other than a sanyasi (renunciate) on the seat of Shankaracharya, and it is not a tradition." (Paper No. 661 Ka, Page 71)
 
^mRrj&Hkxoku 'kadjkpk;Z th }kjk laLFkkfir prq"ihB ijaijk esa vkt rd fdlh dk;Zjr 'kadjkpk;Z }kjk fdlh ,sls O;fDr dk vf/k"Bkiu ugha gqvk gS tks lU;klh u gksA** ¼isij ua0&661 d] ist&76&77½
 
Answer: In the traditions of Chatushpeetha established by Lord (Bhagwan) Shankaracharya, none but a sanyasi has been installed by any presiding Shankaracharya up to now." (Paper No. 661 Ka, Page 76-77) 
 
**egkjkt th us fdlh x`gLFk dks ihB ij vf/k"Bkfir ugha fd;k gS tks lU;klh u gksA** ¼isij ua0&661 d] ist&78½
 
"Maharaj Ji has not installed any person who is not a sanyasi on the Peetha." (Paper No. 661 Ka, Page 78)
 
*Jh Lokeh d`".kcks/kkJe th egkjkt laLd`r ds fo}ku] R;kxh] riLoh ,oa ljy lar FksA Jh Lokeh czg~ekuan ljLorh th egjkt }kjk fyf[kr bPNk esa ua- 2 ds mRrjkf/kdkjh ds fy;s lU;klh gksus dk 'krZ FkkA Lokeh 'kkarkuan th egjkt ;fn 'kadjkpk;Z in Lohdkj u fd;s gksrs rc ua- 2 ij of.kZr O;fDr dks l'krZ mRrjkf/kdkj dk vf/kdkj FkkA 
 
Shri Krishnabodharam was a scholar of Sanskrit, a saint, having observed austerities and having simplicity of nature. In the written will of Swami Brahmanand Sarswati Ji Maharaj, there was a condition for the person at number 2 in the list for being a sanyasi (renunciate). If Swami Shanatanand had not accepted the seat of Shankaracharya, the person mentioned at the number 2 in the list would have the right of succession with conditions. 
 
iz'u&tks O;fDr laLd`r u tkurk gks] osn osnkax o 'kkL=ksa dk tkudkj u gks D;k og 'kadjkpk;Z dh xn~nh ij vf/k"Bkfir fd;k tk ldrk gS\
 
Question: Can a person who does not know Sanskrit, have no knowledge of Veda, Vedang and religious scriptures be consecrated at the seat of Shankaracharya?
 
mRrj&th ughaA 
 
Answer: No, sir. iz'u&'kadjkpk;Z in ds fy;s czkg~e.k lU;klh gksuk] laLd`r dk tkudkj gksuk] osn osnkax o 'kkL=ksa dk tkudkj gksuk vko';d gS\ 
 
Question: Whether it is necessary to be a Bhrahman sanaysi to have knowledge of Sanskrit, Ved Vedang and scriptures for the seat of Shankaracharya.
 
mRrj&'kadjkpk;Z in ds fy;s iwoZ esa dgs x;s ;ksX;rk visf{kr gSA 
 
Answer: The qualifications told earlier for the Shankaracharya is desired. DW-4 Sri Rang Nath Dubey
 
					XXX
 
eSa fiNys 50 lky esa Lokeh oklqnsokuUn ljLorh dk vUrjax jgk gWwA eSa mudk xq:HkkbZ Hkh gWwA --- eSa Lokeh oklqnsokuUn ljLorh ds lU;kl ds le; mifLFkr ugha jgkA ¼isij ua0&645 d] ist&226½
 
I have been close to Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati for last 50 years. I am also his guru bhai (son of his guru).... I was not present at the time of adopting sanyas by Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati. (Paper No 645 ka, Page 226
 
DW-6 Arun Kumar Tripathi
 
					XXX
 
iz'u&T;ksfr"ihB ds 'kadjkpk;Z ds in ds fy, lU;klh gksuk vko';d gksrk gS ;k ugha\
 
Question- Is it necessary for one to be a Sanyasi to become the Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth?
 
mRrj& lU;klh gksuk vko';d gksrk gSA ¼isij ua0&743 d] ist&289½
 
Ans- Yes, it is necessary to be a Sanyasi. (Paper no.-743Ka, Page-289)
 
DW-16 Sri Pandit Radhey Raman Pandey
 
XXX
 
'kadjkpk;Z ds fy, lU;klh gksuk vko';d gSA ¼isij ua0&811d] ist&429½
 
It is necessary to be a Sanyasi for becoming Shankaracharya. (Paper no.-811Ka, Page-429)
 
DW-22 Indu Prakash Upadhya
 
XXX
 
lU;klh leqnz dk mYys[k djds fons'k dh ;k=k ugha dj ldrk gS fdUrq fons'k dh ifjHkk"kk fuf'pr ugha gSA T;ksfr"ihB dk ,slk dksbZ Hkh 'kadjkpk;Z ugha gS tks lU;kl ysus ds ckn Hkh dbZ o"kksZa rd osru ys djds ukSdjh fd;k gksA ¼isij ua0&895 d] ist&492½
 
Sanyasi can not travel to foreign by crossing Sea but the definition of Foreign is not definite. There is no Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth who has done job by taking salary for several years after taking Sanyas. (Paper no. 895 Ka, page no. 492)
 
DW-25 Satya Narayan Tripathi
 
XXX
 
'kadjkpk;Z gksus ds fy, ihB dk f'k"; gksuk t:jh gSA ckdh vkSj fu;e gS mudh tkudkjh eq>s ugh gSA ¼isij ua0&899d] ist&513½
 
It is mandatory to be disciple of the Peeth to be a Shankaracharya. There are several other rules also but I do not know about those. (Paper no.-899Ka, page- 513)
 
DW-31 Swami Narendranand Saraswati
 
'kkL= ds vuqlkj enfu"BkJ;h oSjkX; dh /kkjk esa lnk fueaTtu djus okyk gh laU;Lr gks ldrk gS ¼isij ua0&914 d] ist&599½
 
As per the scriptures only a person who is engulfed all the times, in the stream of renunciation, reposing complete faith and dependence in Me, can be a sanyasi. (Paper no. 914 Ka, Page-599)" 361.	Thus one of the conditions, necessary for installation as Shankaracharya is that one must be Sanyasi. There are some more witnesses appearing on behalf of both parties who have also deposed with respect to necessary conditions applicable for installation of a Shankaracharya in Amnay Peeths, established by Adi Shankaracharya, the authenticity and obligatory nature of text of religious scriptures like Mathamnay, Mahanushashan, Sanyasopnishad etc. which according to them constitute a well established customs, usages and traditions having force of law governing Regulations of aforesaid Peeth including selection and appointment of a person as Shankaracharya on such Peeth. The relevant extract of deposition of plaintiff's witnesses, PW-1 Sri Shyam Sundar Vajpai, PW-2 Challa Laxman Shastri Purohit, PW-3, Sri Kameshwar Nath Mishra, PW-11, Sri Ashwin Bhai Purohit, PW-14, Sri Janny Pellegreeni and PW-17 Swami Sri Vishuddhanand Saraswati are as under: 362.	Similar deposition has been made by witnesses appeared on behalf of appellant including appellant himself who deposed as PW-3 and other witnesses are, DW 12, Sri Roy Vishwanath Singh, DW 22, Sri Indu Prakash Upadhya, DW 31, Urdhwramnaya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Narendranand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, DW 32, Sri Swami Yogeswaranand Giri, DW 36, Anant Vibhushit Sri Takshak Tirthpeeth- adishwar Ravishankar Ji Maharajand and DW 37, Sri Bhramchari Atmanand, have deposed as under: 363.	On the status and authority of "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan", DW 1, DW 3 i.e. appellant himself, DW 4, DW 22, DW 31 and DW 37 have deposed as under: 364.	With regard to "Amnay Peeth", relevant verses contained in "Mathamanya" and "Mahanushasan" which have been placed before us are verses 38, 39, 42, 43, 45, 47 to 54, 56 to 60 and 65 which read as under: 365.	With regard to "Mahanushasan", at page 171 of Sri Shankaracharya (Sri Shankaracharya ke jeevan charit tatha updesho ka pramanik vivran, by Acharya Baldeo Upadhayay ) (supra) it has been commented: 366.	Sri Goel submitted that it is true that Amnaya Peetham established by Adi Shankaracharya has a significance of special nature yet they satisfy the concept of 'Math' and looking to the nature of Math, it is a "Maurusi Math" as described by Sri B.K. Mukherjee in "Law of Endowment" and also V.K. Varadhachari's "Law of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments", revised by Dr. R. Prakash published by Easterm Book Company and therein Maths are generally divided in three classes according to ways in which Heads or superiors are appointed. These three classes are (a) Mourusi Math (b) Panchayati Math and (c) Hakimi Math which are detailed as under: (b) Panchayati Math: In a Panchayati Math the mode of appointment of a Mohunt is by election. It depends upon the custom of a particular institution as to who would be competent to exercise the power of election. Generally Mohunt of the same sect (here to be understand as the 'Head') having common origin assemble on the 13th day after the death of the last Mohunt and proceed to elect his successor. Name given to the electoral body is Vhek or Punch, constitution of which is regulated entirely by custom. Here also the tradition is that none but a disciple of last Mohunt could be elected by the Panch as a successor. Preference is given to Chelas of deceased but if they are not considered to be qualified, the Panch can elect either a Guru Bhai of late Mohunt or somebody else connected with the institution or a Chela of another Mohunt belonging to the same sect. (c) Hakimi Math: In a case of Hakimi Math the appointment of Head is made by the ruling power (The Raja and Maharaja) or by the party who has endowed the Temple. However, after coming into force of Act No. 20 of 1863, the ruling powers in India divested itself of the right of nominating any Mohunt. However, the tradition of Hakimi Math continues where the families who originally endowed the temple or the institutions is exercising the right as of custom to appoint the Head of a Math. 367.	 Sri Goel further said and we find him right that since the time of establishment of Math, it has followed Guru-Shishiya Parampara. Head of Maths have been appointed from time to time as per the aforesaid tradition/Parampara. It has been followed by all Maths/Peethas, set up by Adi Shankaracharya himself, who nominated four disciples at each Peeth set up by him, whereafter tradition of passing Headship from Guru to Chela has been constantly followed till date. There has been nomination through testamentary instruments as well. All the ingredients relating to a "Mourusi Math" stands satisfied in the case of succession to Headship of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Essential character being that of a "Mourusi Math", the entire controversy is to be judged on the aforesaid genesis, otherwise it will result in deviation to the very basis of existence of Math. He also placed reliance on V.K.Varadhachari's Law of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, revised by Dr. R. Prakash published by Easterm Book Company (Chapter 8 page 466 to 470). 368.	On the contrary, learned counsel for plaintiff argued that in case of aforesaid Four Monasteries (Maths) of Acharya Shanker, successor cannot be appointed by way of mere executing a will, because those monasteris are brother monasteries, established by a single person i.e. Acharya Shankar under single instrument i.e. 'Mathamnayasetu' or ' Mahanushasan' and in these commandments it has been clearly laid down that 1st set of four Shankaracharyas were appointed by Acharya Shankar himself. In this commandment Acharya Shankar has commanded that descending successors shall be appointed by consecrating him on concerned seat by the outgoing Shankaracharya at the end of his rule (verse 52 of MM Eng. Edn) and said tradition is duly being followed till date.	Since all four Peethas have been established by a single person vide single Great Commandment, verse 47 of Mathamanaya-Mahanushasan authorizes even a single Shankaracharya to hold power of all four seats to avoid their extinction as also verse 49 of this Great Commandment authorizes Shankaracharya of other three monasteries to remove a person who has ascended on any one of the aforesaid seats, without having prescribed qualification. Thus it is beyond doubt that in that event, concerned monastery for all practical purpose shall be deemed to be in the joint custody of other three Shankaracharyas for discharging their obligation to appoint new Shankaracharya out of the natural successors of deceased Shankaracharya. Otherwise, without Acharya, such monasteries shall be deemed to be extirpated which is strictly prohibited vide verse 50 supra. In that event it will be obligatory on the part of other three Shankaracharyas to select a worthy Renouncer having requisite qualification unanimously and consecrate him on the concerned seat. 369. Our discussion justify us to hold that four Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya cannot be equated with ordinary Mutts, Ashrams or other religious endowments since they have a special significance, reverence and followership in Sanatan Dharma. The commands of Mathamnay/ Mahanushasan whether mandatory or recommendatory, or advisory, but the fact remains that these are the instructions governing matters relating to selection of a person for installation in Amnay Peethas and mode and manner of further administration thereof and has got the status of established custom and tradition having force of law. It is the own evidence of even appellant that these commands are to be observed in words and spirit strictly and, therefore, we have no manner of doubt to observe that these commands lay down eligibility and qualification of a person for installation of Shankaracharya and the manner in which four Amnay Peethas have to be regulated and governed by those who are installed. 370.	For our purposes and for the purpose of present case even if we do not go into much details, yet this is evident that for installing a person as Shankaracharya, the most important mandatory conditions which must exist and the person selected and installed must possess, so as to become suitable, eligible and qualify to hold position of 'Shankaracharya' are: 371.	From the above discussion we have no manner of doubt that Adi Shankaracharya has a great reverence among Sanatan Dharma followers/devotees who place him on the pedestal of incarnation of Lord Shiva. There are only four Peethas called 'Amanya Peeth' established by Adi Shankaracharya which have authority to have title and status of "Jagat Guru Shankaracharya" and the person who holds that position and this title/office, got recognition from several centuries by customs and traditions laid down in religious scriptures some sources of which are referred above , and followed by Sanatan Dharma devotees and followers, hence it cannot be allowed to be usurped by anyone else. Such an attempt would be nothing but an act of Imposter/ Trespasser and nothing but a fraud on religious denomination of Hindu Sanatan Dharma. We also find that the term ''Sanyas' as such is recognized in Sanatan Dharma where a person who has completed formalities to become a 'Sanyasi' while in other religions and faiths a similar concept is given a different meaning, for example, Bhikchuk (Monk) in Budhism, 'Muni' in Jainism, etc. 372.	Our observations are confined to the concept of "Jagat Guru Shankaracharya" who has a well recognized description, meaning, status and reverence in Sanatan Dharma and therefore, except principal authority installed at such Peethas established by Adi Shankaracharya i.e. (i) Jyotirmath, (ii) Shardamath, (iii) Sringeri Matha and (iv) Govardhan Matha, no other person can usurp or call himself as "Jagat Guru Shankaracharya". 373.	Further, as we have seen that under commands of Adi Shankaracharya one 'Amanya Peetha' can have only one Head as Shankaracharya, two persons claiming themselves as 'Shankaracharya' of same Peeth is also patently illegal, unauthorized and nothing but an attempt of usurpation of that status. In fact this act or attempt on the part of a person who claimed to stand parallel 'Shankaracharya' of a Peeth itself would render him ineligible to be called or treated as Shankaracharya. 374.	The two books of commands, Vedas, Upnishads and other relevant religious scriptures, some of which we have already referred to, make it very clear that in the four Amanya Peeths of Adi Shankaracharya, Guru-Shishya Parampara has been followed since very beginning after initial installation by Adi Shankaracharya. The commands also contemplate a situation where a sitting Shankaracharya could not nominate his successor, or nominated or installed successor is not suitable and eligible. In such circumstances Manishigan, i.e., people of great learning which may include Shankaracharyas of other Peethas will have authority to select and install an appropriate suitable person as Shankaracharya of such Peeth or to remove and appoint another one. But this condition will be attracted only when successor is not nominated by outgoing Shankaracharya These constitute well established customary law and therefore have to be followed strictly. 375.	There may be a situation when a person nominated by outgoing Shankaracharya or installed by earlier functioning Shankaracharya is found unsuitable or suffers subsequently some disqualification i.e. conditions prescribed in aforesaid books laying down customs and usage and in such circumstances after taking a conscious decision, and due notice to concerned person about alleged unsuitability or disqualification, he suffers or has attained, and after a proper removal thereof, a new person can be selected and installed as Shankaracharya by Manishigans as defined and explained in earlier discussion. 376.	Looking to Verses-47 and 50 of "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan", we are also of the view that in an emergency or other grave condition, a situation may arise where one Shankaracharya may be required to look after more than one Peeth. But that situation being of emergency and for certain unforeseen circumstances, would mean that it is a temporary arrangement and has to stop as soon as possible. Such a situation cannot continue for years together as that will amount to a complete violation of the well established customary laws in this regard laid down in the aforesaid commands and other scriptures. Such a situation has to be rectified at the earliest. But in no case, one Peeth can have two Shankaracharyas and a person who does not fulfill requisite qualification also cannot be appointed thereat. 377.	Three points for determination, formulated above, therefore, are answered as under: 378.	The fourth point for determination would be, "whether at Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, installation of Shankaracharya has always followed Guru-Shishya Parampara or there has been an exception for installation of Shankaracharya thereat?" 379. 	It is the admitted case of both the parties that Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth is the fourth Peeth established by Adi Shankaracharya. In this regard, some history has been traced by Pt. Harikrishna Raturi in "Garhwal ka Itihas" (supra) which has been placed before us and since this historical scriptures has not been disputed by both the parties, therefore we may refer extract thereof as under. 380.	On page 67-68 of book, learned author has traced the history of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth at Badrikashram and said as under: 381.	On page 27 to 29 of the book as under: 382.	On page 31 author has given certain historical facts of the period of Adi Shankaracharya as under: 383.	The learned Author on page 29 has further said: 384.	Subsequent to installation of Totakacharya, other Shankaracharyas of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, as written by Raturi, are: 385.	It is not disputed before us also that last known Shankaracharya, who held this seat at Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was Swami Ram Krishna, who died in 1833 Vikram Samvat (1776 A.D.) and thereafter for about 165 years, Peeth remained defunct. In this regard, Pt. Raturi has written as under: 386.	It is common case of both the parties that B.D.M., VNS, other Shankaracharyas of three Peethas and other learned Brahmans and Pandits selected Swami Sri Brahmanand Saraswati as a suitable person to be installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth; a declaration of trust-deed was prepared on 11.05.1941 and Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was installed on 11.05.1941 as Shankaracharya by the said congregation of Manishigans. Thus since Vikram Swavat 1833 to 1998 (1776 to 1941 AD), Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth did not have any Shankaracharya and the new one, who was installed in 1941, did not come into office by virtue of Guru-Shishya Parampara. He was installed by Manishigans as contemplated in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" which we have discussed above. This is admitted case of both the parties. In plaint, the plaintiff has averred these facts in para 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of plaint, which read as under: 387.	Broadly, the facts relating to installation of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati by learned Pandits and other Shankaracharyas, as stated by plaintiff, are not disputed by appellant in written statement and his own oral deposition.
 
387A.	We, therefore, answer this fourth point for determination as under: 388.	Fifth point for determination is "who came to be installed as Shankaracharya after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati in 1953?" 389. 	In para-19 of plaint, it is said by plaintiff that after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati it was found that a ''Will' was executed by him on 18.12.1952 nominating four persons as his successor, namely, (a) Ramji Triapthi (subsequently known as Shanta Nand Saraswati) (b) Dwarika Prasad Shastri (subsequently known as Dwarikeshanand Saraswati (c) Swami Vishnu Deva Nand Saraswati and (d) Swami Parmanand Saraswati. Plaintiff's case is that learned Brahmans and other Shankaracharyas considered Ramji Tripathi and found him ineligible having no knowledge of Sanskrit and, therefore, his claim for installation as Shankaracharya was rejected by learned Pandits, Sanyasis and other Shankaracharyas, though Ramji Tripathi, i.e. Shanta Nand Saraswati started to claim himself as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. 390.	In the written statement, case set up by appellant is that after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, his ''Will' was opened and as per nomination made, Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati) was installed as his successor. The question of selection by Manishigans did not arise, following Guru-Shishya Parampara, Swami Brahmanand Saraswati had already nominated Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati as his successor. 391.	This issue was raised at the earliest by four persons, namely, Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati, Nagesh Upadhyay, Mahadev Shastri and Sudarshan Lal Bajpai in Original Suit No. 3 of 1954 filed in representative capacity under Section 92 CPC impleading Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati as sole defendant. They sought relief for removal of Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati from the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and also a declaration for Swami Krishna Bodhashram as duly installed Shankaracharya of the said Peeth. As we have already given history of suit in earlier part which ultimately resulted in a final verdict by Supreme Court in Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati and another Vs. Ramji Tripathi (supra), from the pleadings therein, we find that it was admitted case of plaintiffs therein that there existed a ''will' dated 07.12.1952 which was published on 08.06.1952, after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati on 20.05.1953. As per nomination made in the said ''will' first choice was Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati, who accepted office and installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 12.06.1953. Supreme Court judgment shows that a section of worshippers installed Swami Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya of Math on 25.06.1953, since according to them, Brahmanand did not execute any will nominating his successor, and in any case 'will' was not executed by him while he was in a sound disposing state of mind. Supreme Court, in para 4 of judgment also said that Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati was installed on 12.06.1953 and came in possession of Mutt properties. The aforesaid suit failed for the reason that Court found that suit was filed for the benefit of an individual and not on the ground of mismanagement or breach of condition of management of a trust etc. The aforesaid suit, as already said, was filed under Section 92 . Court held that a suit under Section 92 is a suit of special nature which pre-supposes existence of public trust of a religious or charitable character and such suit can proceed only on the allegations that there was a breach of trust or that the direction of Court is necessary for administration of trust and plaintiffs must pray for one or more of the reliefs that are mentioned in Section 92 . Court also held that suit basically was filed for declaration that Swami Krishna Bodhashram was duly installed as Shankaracharya of Mutt on 25.06.1953 and Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati had no right to be nominated as head of Mutt since he did not possess requisite qualification and his possession of the trust property was only in the capacity of a trustee de son tort, and so he must be removed from the headship of Math. Supreme Court upheld dismissal of suit being not maintainable under Section 92 CPC. Relevant finding contained in para 12 of judgment read as under: 392.	The aforesaid judgment is relevant to the fact that for the benefit of Swami Krishna Bodhashram a suit was filed for removal of Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati from the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and therein it was an admitted case that Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati was installed on 12.06.1953 and took possession of property of Mutt. 393.	In para 20 of plaint in present case, plaintiff admits that Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati started to claim headship of Jyotirmath. Several plaintiff's witnesses have also deposed that Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati was removed from the Office of Shankaracharya. When one says that a person was removed, it pre-supposes an admission that such person was appointed/installed in the seat. Relevant depositions of PW-1 and PW-31 read as under: 394.	It is also admitted by plaintiff witnesses that the term "nigrah" means ''removal' and question of removal would arise when somebody is appointed. Relevant depositions of PW-3, PW-4, PW-13, PW-20, DW-8 and DW-22 on the meaning of word ''Nigrah" reads as under: 395.	PW-4 has specifically admitted that on 12.06.1953, Swamit Shanta Nand Saraswati was installed. Relevant deposition of PW-4 reads as under: 396.	We, therefore, find no difficulty in holding that on 12.06.1953 after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, following nomination made by him vide ''Will' dated 18.12.1952, his first choice, namely, Ramji Tripathi, i.e., Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati was installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 12.06.1953 and we answer the aforesaid point for determination accordingly. 397.	The next points for determination which can be considered together are: 398.	In the alternative, Ninth Point for determination would be "whether judgment dated 15.01.1970 passed by Trial Court in Suit No. 36 of 1965 can be said to have attained finality after dismissal of first appeal having abated due to death of sole defendant-appellant and non substitution of his legal representatives and if so, this question cannot be considered in any subsequent proceeding. In other words, what is the status and effect of abatement of appeal on the judgment of Trial Court dated 15.01.1970 in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 after the appeal was dismissed as abated. 399. 	In the present case, Trial Court has examined the question of functioning of Swami Krishna Bodhashram from 25.06.1953 to 10.09.1973 and whether suit is barred by principle of res judicata or not, i.e., Issues- 9 and 16. Issue No. 16 with reference to adjudication in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 has been considered by Trial Court on page 107 of judgment (page 235 Volume-I of appellant's paper book) and discussed as under: 400. 	It is interesting to notice that though issue of res judicata with reference to adjudication in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 has been decided against appellant and in favour of plaintiff, but in regard to the 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 Trial Court has observed that in all the preceding adjudications, issue of 'Will' has been decided holding that 'Will' was properly executed and in the present case also Trial Court did not record any finding otherwise in respect of such 'Will'. To this effect, findings of Trial Court in the present case at internal page-150 of judgment (Page 274, Volume-I of appellant's paper book) read as under: 401.		Trial Court, we find, has proceeded in a very strange manner. It has not held 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 ingenuine or having not been executed by Testator, i.e., Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. On the contrary, findings recorded in respect of 'Will' in earlier litigation has been left untouched. The result would be that for the purpose of present suit, 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 has to be treated, a valid 'Will' having all legal consequences. Court below has also observed that in the present case it cannot be examined, whether Swami Shantanand had knowledge of Sanskrit or not. That being so, it was not open to Trial Court to proceed further to assume or presume or to treat something already settled regarding knowledge of Sanskrit of Swami Shantanand so as to proceed with the assumption that Swami Shantanand was not qualified to hold the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and, therefore, seat must be deemed to be vacant. This is a contradictory finding recorded by Trial Court. Once it has held that it cannot examine, whether Swami Shantanand Saraswati possessed knowledge of Sanskrit or not, it had no authority to proceed further on this aspect. Unfortunately we find that in order to bring in and make installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram valid, there was no other way and hence Trial Court despite observing that it cannot examine the question, whether Swami Shantanand possessed knowledge of Sanskrit or not, still proceeded to hold that he did not have such knowledge and, therefore, was removed from the seat of Shankaracharya by congregation of Manishigans. Aforesaid finding has been recorded by Trial Court at internal pages 151 to 153 (Page 275 to 277 Vol-I, Appellant's Paper Book) and we may reproduce the above contradictory and illegal finding recorded by Trial Court as under: 402. 		Again for the purpose of answering Issue-9 with regard to the functioning of Swami Krishna Bodhashram from 25.06.1953 to 10.09.1973, Court below has merely proceeded to hold that since he actually functioned as Shankaracharya and therefore, has answered the said issue in favour of the plaintiff though the legal consequence of judgment dated 15.01.1970 in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, in our view, could not have been ignored by Court below. The findings of the Trial Court in respect to Issue-9 at internal page 208 to 211, reads as under:- 403.		We have no manner of doubt that aforesaid findings cannot be sustained and has to be reversed. We are giving our reasons as under. 404.		In order to hold that Shanta Nand Saraswati was not qualified having no knowledge of Sanskrit, Court below has relied on judgment in Original Suit No. 3 of 1954 completely forgetting the basic principles that the suit filed under Section 92 was ultimately dismissed. Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati being defendant therein could not have filed an appeal against mere finding, on an issue decided against him when suit is ultimately dismissed for the reason that appeal under Section 96 CPC lies against decree and not against a mere finding. The aforesaid finding, if any, could not have been read against Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati in any manner. Even it did not constitute res-judicata in view of Section 11 which provides that the matter must have been heard and finally decided by Court. 405.		In Nana Tukaram Jaikar Vs. Sonabai Mahadav and others AIR 1982 Bom. 437, suit was dismissed but on some issues, an adverse finding was recorded against defendant, hence Court held that such finding would not operate as res-judicata and could not have been appealed. 406.		Therefore, a finding recorded against defendant, Swami Shantanand Saraswati, in Original Suit No. 3 of 1954, which was ultimately dismissed, could not have been raised against him since issue did not attain finality as plaintiff therein, against dismissal of suit did not proceed further and defendant, against whom finding on a particular issue was recorded, could not have filed appeal by virtue of Section 96 which permits appeal against decree and not finding. Hence, there was no finality of judgment on this issue and Trial Court relying on this finding in O. S. 3 /1954, which was dismissed against Swami Shantanand, defendant therein, in order to read something against him, has clearly erred in law. This finding of Trial Court, therefore, has to be reversed. Law on this aspect is almost uniform and some of the authorities of different High Courts as also Privy Council taking the same view are Raghu Nath Vs. Shib Charan Lal ( 1895) ILR 17 All 174, Nundo Lall Bhuttacharjee and others Vs. Bidhoo Mookhy Debee 1886 ILR 13 Cal. 17, Waris Khan and Others Vs. Ahmadullakhan and others AIR 1952 Nag 238, Midnapur Zamindari Company Limited Vs. Naresh Narayan Roy AIR 1922 PC 241, Ramaswami Reddi Vs. Talaivasal Marudai Reddi and others AIR 1924 Mad 469, S.P.A. Annamalay Chetty vs. B.A. Thornhill AIR 1931 PC 263. 407.		Trial Court has also recorded a perverse finding that in Original Suit 36 of 1965 with regard to qualification of Swami Shantanand Saraswati no finding was recorded. In Original Suit 36 of 1965, issue 4 was clearly with respect to qualification of plaintiff therein, i.e., Swami Shantanand Saraswati, "whether he possesses requisite qualification to hold the office of Shankaracharya as laid down in Mathamnay and Mahanushasan". Issue 4 therein reads as under: 408.		Answering said issue, Civil and Sessions Judge, Allahabad in judgment dated 15.01.1970 held as under: 409.		Once a clear finding was recorded by Trial Court in Original Suit 36 of 1965, the observation by Trial Court in the present case that on qualification of Swami Shantanand Saraswati regarding knowledge of Sankrit, no specific finding is recorded, is thoroughly misconceived, misreading and shows that it has misdirected itself in making out a case of disqualification of Swami Shantanand Saraswati for installation as Shankaracharya when his qualification was duly endorsed while adjudicating a specific issue made in this regard by Trial Court in Original Suit 36 of 1965. The otherwise findings in judgment under appeal, therefore, has to be set aside. 
 
Effect of Abatement 410.		The finding of Trial Court that since appeal preferred by Swami Krishna Bodhashram against judgment dated 15.01.1970 in Original Suit 36 of 1965 stood abated, therefore, judgment did not attain finality and hence would be of no help to appellant and question, whether Swami Krishna Bodhashram was validly installed on 25.06.1953 or not can still be examined by it, in our view, is clearly erroneous and this finding has to be reversed. Sri Goel, in our view, has rightly submitted that judgment in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, even otherwise, has attained finality and resulted in a decree executable between the parties in the said suit, therefore, whatever, issues have been decided therein, could not have been re-agitated by plaintiff in the subsequent suit and in respect of those issues, former judgment would operate res-judicata; and, in any case, no issue could have been allowed to be raised in subsequent suit which has effect of upsetting earlier final decree. In this regard, Sri Goel advanced his submissions based on certain authorities throwing light on the effect of "abatement". We may consider those authorities also at this stage. 411.		The first authority in this regard is Sundar Pande and others Vs. Musammat Kumari 1919 (50) Indian Cases 935 (Alld.). This Court considered effect of death of sole plaintiff-respondent during pendency of appeal when legal heirs were not brought on record in the context of Order 22 Rule 4 and 11 C.P.C ., 1908. Suit property was claimed to be stridhan of step-mother of plaintiff, Musammat Kumari, who filed a suit for declaration of her title alleging that she inherited property upon death of Musammat Moti Rani, her step-mother. She also claimed for possession. Suit was decreed whereupon defendant filed First Appeal in High Court. During pendency of appeal, Plaintiff-respondent, Musammat Kumari died. Court referring to Order 22 Rule 4, held that it has no power to declare that suit has abated. Reading Rule 11 alongwith Rule 4, and substituting word "respondent for defendant" and "appeal for suit", this Court held that under this Rule it has no power to declare a suit as distinct from appeal to have abated in a case in which there was decree already made before death of plaintiff. However, since execution of decree is also impossible which was obtained by deceased-plaintiff what Court should do in such case is to direct that having regard to events which have happened, appeal should be struck out from the file of pending cases. 412. In Nathaniel Uraon Vs. Mahadeo Uraon and others AIR 1957 Patna 511, a suit for ejectment of defendants-8 to 11 was filed claiming that plaintiff and defendants-1 to 7 have joint possession as there was no family partition and plaintiff and defendants-1 to 7 are descendants of common ancestor-Sukra. The disputed land comprised of Khata No. 141. It was ancestral raiyati land of plaintiff and defendants-1 to 7, recorded jointly in their names or their ancestors in the record of rights. Suit was mainly contested by defendants-8 and 9 who stated that they had purchased plots no. 566 and 2489 from defendant-1 which was separate and exclusive property of defendant-1. They denied claim of joint possession or co-ownership pleading that there was a division about 30 years back between Sukra Uraon and his brothers. Defendants-2 to 7 supported plaintiff's case and defendants-10 and 11 supported defence set up by defendants-8 and 9. Trial Court held that no division amongst ancestors of plaintiff and defendants-1 to 7 was proved and one co-sharer even if have separate possession of common land cannot alienate same to a third person as his own exclusive property since it was a co-ownership land until a partition takes place. Relying on judgment of this Court in Jamna Vs. Jhalli AIR 1920 All 111 and Mohammad Sher Khan Vs. Bharat Indu AIR 1928 All 59, Trial Court decreed suit holding that defendant-1 could not have alienated joint land to defendants. Trial Court passed decree for joint possession of disputed land between plaintiff and defendants-1 to 7 and for ejectment for defendants-8 and 9. First Appeal under Section 96 of CPC was filed by defendants-8 and 9 before District Judge who affirmed Trial Court's findings with regard to factum that there was no partition by metes and bounds with respect to joint family property but then relying on a decision of Patna High Court in Sat Narayan Singh Vs. Anant Prosad AIR 1919 Pat 549 and Ram Nandan Sahay Vs. Jai Gobind Pandey AIR 1919 Pat 445, Appellate Court concluded that co-owner would be held in joint possession alongwith transferer and transferree. It accordingly, modified decree of Trial Court by disallowing ejectment of defendants-8 and 9 and gave plaintiff a decree for joint possession of plots no. 566 and 2489 with defendants- 1 to 9. One of the plaintiffs, Nathaniel Uraon, brought Second Appeal in High Court and co-plaintiff, Bhaura Uraon was impleaded as one of the respondents. During pendency of appeal, defendant-9, before Trial Court, died. There was no substitution. Second Appeal accordingly abated against defendant-9 and dismissed accordingly holding decree of lower Appellate Court final in respect of plot no. 2489 which was transferred by defendant-1 to defendant-9. In respect of another plot relating to defendant-8, Patna High Court confirmed modified decree passed by First Appellate Court following the principle that a person can in law confer upon another person all the rights he possesses in law but not more. Court held that a co-owner can transfer his undivided share in the joint property by way of lease, sale, gift or otherwise. Patna High Court in Sat Narayan Singh Vs. Anant Prosad (supra) culled out following principles in deciding the matter: 413. In State of Punjab Vs. Nathu Ram AIR 1962 SC 89, certain land was acquired by Punjab Government which belong to Labhu Ram and Nathu Ram. They refused to accept compensation offered by Collector and applied to Punjab Government through Collector under Rule 6 of Punjab Land Acquisition (Defence of India) Rules, 1943 (hereinafter referred to as "Rules, 1943"). Matter was referred to Arbitrator under Rule 10 who made an award ordering a higher compensation than what was offered by Collector. The award of Arbitrator was challenged by State Government in appeal before High Court. During pendency of appeal, Labhu Ram, one of the respondents, died. High Court took the view that since cause of action was common, appeal has abated against Labhu Ram, hence its effect would be that it has also abated against Nathu Ram and consequently dismissed the same. It also dismissed cross-objections filed by respondents. That is how matter came up before Supreme Court. It held that with death of Labhu Ram, when no application for bringing on record his legal representatives was filed within the prescribed time, appeal of State Government stood abated against Labhu Ram but C.P.C . does not provide for abatement of appeal against other respondents. Court held that Order 22 Rule 4 does not provide for abatement of appeal against co-respondents of deceased respondent as there can be no question of abatement of appeal against them. This is a different thing that appeal against co-respondents cannot proceed in certain circumstances but it is not at par that appeal abates against them also. If Court can deal with the matter in controversy, so far as regards the rights and interests of appellants and respondents, other than deceased respondent, it has to proceed with appeal and decide it. It is only to deal with such matters which cannot proceed that it will have to refuse to proceed further with appeal and therefore would dismiss it. When a Court cannot proceed with the matter depends on the facts of each case and no exhaustive statement can be made about such circumstances. Some such circumstances were noticed by Court in para 6 of judgment as under:- 414.		Thereafter, Court examined the question as to appeal could have survived against co-respondents after death of Labhu Ram and held it cannot. Reasons recorded in para 9 of judgment reads as under:- 415.		The above judgment was followed in Rameshwar Prasad and others Vs. Shyam Beharilal Jagannath and others AIR 1963 SC 1901 and therein when reliance was sought under Order 41 Rule 4, Court held that provisions of Order 41 Rule 4 C.P.C . would not over-ride provisions of Order 22 Rule 9 C.P.C . The provisions of Order 41 Rule 4 C.P.C . applies at the time of appeal but once appeal has been filed, provisions of Order 41 Rule 4 C.P.C . would become unavailable. Order 22 operates during the pendency of an appeal and its institution. If some party dies during pendency of appeal, his legal representatives have to be brought on record within the period of limitation. If that is not done, appeal by deceased-appellant abates and does not proceed any further. Order 22 Rule 9 and Order 41 Rule 4 C.P.C . are, therefore, neither inconsistent nor apply to the same proceedings but they operate at different stages and provide for different contingencies. There is nothing common in these provisions which make the provisions, of one, interfere in any way with another. 416.		The two judgments relied by Shri Goel though observe that death of one of the parties would abate appeal and confer finality to judgment, decree under appeal but actually real issue raised therein was in respect of continuance of cause of action in respect of other co-appellants or co-respondents in the light of Order 22 Rule 4. These decisions, therefore, do not help the appellant in respect to the issue in question. 417. In Bibi Rahmani Khatoon and others Vs. Harkoo Gope and others (1981) 3 SCC 173, a title suit was filed by Bibi Rahmani Khatoon and others for declaration of their possession, title and for recovery of possession of agricultural lands comprising two holdings bearing Khata Nos. 458, 459 in Touzi No. 7535 in Village Parsain. There were 7 defendants in suit. One defendant-7 Brahmadeo claimed interest in Khata No. 458 on the basis of a sale deed dated 31.03.1959 executed by defendant-5, Deonandan Singh. Suit was decreed by Trial Court declaring plaintiffs as owners in both khatas and entitled to recover possession. First Appeal was dismissed by Fourth Additional District Judge, Gaya and Trial Court's judgment was confirmed. During pendency of appeal before First Appellate Court, defendant-7, Brahmadeo, died. Neither his legal heirs were substituted nor anybody came for substitution. Second Appeal was filed by another defendants, i.e., Harkoo Gope and three others. When Second Appeal was pending, defendants-appellants also brought to the notice of High Court, Patna that in view of Notification under Section 3 of Bihar Consolidation of Holdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as "Act, 1956"), village was brought in consolidation operation, hence appeal pending in High Court would abate in view of Section 4 of Act, 1956. It was accepted by High Court and appeal was disposed of, observing as under:- 418.		Since High Court declared even decree of Trial Court and First Appellate Court, abated, and set aside the same, plaintiffs brought appeal in Supreme Court. It was argued that by virtue of Notification under Section 3 of Act, 1956 and by application of Section 4 of Act, 1956, only Second Appeal would have abated hence High Court could not have set aside judgments and decrees of Trial Court and First Appellate Court for the reason, when an appeal abates, judgment and decree of Court against which appeal is preferred becomes final. Another argument was that appellants in High Court had no interest in Khata No. 458 in which only defendant-7, Brahmadeo had claimed a title and since he died when First Appeal was pending, against him First Appeal itself has abated. There was no issue with respect to said Khata before High Court and to that extent, decree of Court below could not have been set aside by High Court. Supreme Court examined effect of Section 4 of Act, 1956 and held that pending Second Appeal in High Court would abate. Then it proceeded to examine correctness of order of High Court setting aside decree of Courts below on the ground that proceedings have abated. Court held that concept of 'abatement' is known to civil law. If a party to a proceeding, either in Trial Court or appeal or revision, dies and right to sue survives or a claim has to be answered, heirs and legal representatives of deceased party would have to be substituted and failure to do so would result in abatement of proceedings. If a party to a suit dies and abatement takes place, suit would abate. If a party to an appeal or revision dies and either appeal or revision abates, it will have no impact on judgment, decree or order against which appeal or revision is preferred. Such judgment, decree or order under appeal or revision would become final. 419.		But then Court distinguished above principle in the light of scheme of Act, 1956. It construed the concept of "abatement" under Section 4 of Act, 1956 and held that the judgment if held final, then it will be binding on Consolidation authorities also and that will create obstruction in consolidation proceedings for the reason that party whose appeal and revision would abate would lose its chance of persuading Consilidation authorities. Court thus said, "Therefore, the legislature intended that not only appeal or revision would abate but judgment, order or decree against which appeal is pending would also become non est as they would also abate and this would leave consolidation authority free to adjudicate the claims or title or other rights or interest in land involved in consolidation." Accordingly, it upheld the order passed by High Court. 420. In taking above view, Court relied on its earlier judgments in Ram Adhar Singh Vs. Ramroop Singh AIR 1968 SC 714 and Chattar Singh Vs. Thakur Prasad Singh AIR 1975 SC 1499 which had arisen from pari materia provision i.e. Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as "Act, 1953"). Court, therefore, crystallized the principle in the context of 'abatement' under Section 4 of Act, 1956 as under:- 421. In Amba Bai and others Vs. Gopal and others (2001) 5 SCC 570, a more interesting question had arisen. A suit for specific performance was filed by one Laxmi Lal, sole plaintiff, against Radhu Lal, sole defendant, Suit was dismissed. First Appeal of plaintiff was allowed and suit was decreed. Sole defendant, Radhu Lal preferred Second Appeal against decree of First Appellate Court. During pendency of Second Appeal, sole defendant/appellant-Radhu Lal, died on 14.12.1990. Neither legal representatives of sole defendant/appellant sought their substitution nor the factum of death of Radhu Lal was brought to the notice of High Court, when appeal came up for hearing on 23.05.1991 and the same was dismissed on merits. Decree of First Appellate Court, was put in execution. Legal representatives of Radhu Lal resisted execution holding that order dated 23.05.1991 passed by High Court dismissing Second Appeal was a nullity, having been passed against a dead person and there was a merger of judgment of First Appellate Court in the order of Second Appellate Court hence, it could not have been executed. Executing Court rejected objection holding that there was no merger. High Court did not pass any decree and it is the First Appellate Court's decree which was executable. Said order of Executing Court was challenged in revision before High Court which was allowed and learned Single Judge of High Court held that order passed in Second Appeal was a nullity as it was against a dead person and decree of First Appellate Court had merged with judgment of Second Appellate Court. Therefore, there was no question of any execution and execution proceedings were liable to be rejected. This order was challenged by legal representatives of Radhu Lal in Supreme Court. It observed that so far as order dated 25.03.1991 is concerned, same being a judgment against a dead person, was a nullity. But then it also held that since Radhu Lal had died on 14.12.1990 and within 90 days, substitution was not sought, appeal stood abated by operation of law and that being so, question of merger would not arise in this case. Court held that effect of abatement is that decree passed by First Appellate Court acquired finality. For this purpose, it relied on earlier decisions in Rajendra Prasad Vs. Khirodhar Mahto 1994 Supp (3) SCC 314 and also Bibi Rahmani Khatoon and others Vs. Harkoo Gope and others (supra). Considering the concept of merger, Court held that judgment and order of an inferior Court is subjected to an appeal or revision by superior Court and in such proceedings, order or judgment, if passed by superior Court, determining rights of parties, it would supersede order or judgment passed by inferior Court. A juristic justification for such doctrine of merger is based on the common law principle that there cannot be at one and the same time, more than one operative order governing subject matter. Judgment of inferior Court is deemed to lose its identity and merges with judgment of superior Court. However, when appeal pending in superior Court abates, in absence of legal representatives of party who has died, decree passed by inferior Court attained finality on its own since there was no other judgment of superior Court. Therefore, question of application of doctrine of merger does not arise. In the result, Supreme Court set aside order passed by High Court and confirmed Executing Court's order that judgment of First Appellate Court was executable. 422. In the aforesaid authorities and in particular in Bibi Rahmani Khatoon and others Vs. Harkoo Gope and others ( supra) and Amba Bai and others Vs. Gopal and others (supra), in our view, the law laid down is that if a decree has been passed by Trial Court and defendant's appeal abates due to death of sole defendant or defendants, the decree passed by Trial Court will remain operative and is not abated except of the cases which are governed by special or specific statutory provisions, like, Section 5 of Act, 1953 and Section 4 of Bihar Act, 1956 whereunder entire civil proceedings will abate which would include not only the suit or decree passed therein but even appeal, revision etc. 423.		A distinction has been drawn between the abatement under the provisions of CPC and other specific statutory provision. Referring to the aforesaid decisions in the context of Bihar Act, 1956, in Paras Nath Rai and others Vs. State of Bihar and others (2012 ) 12 SCC 642, Court has held that once a Notification has been published under Section 3 of Bihar Act, 1956 every suit and proceeding in respect of declaration of right or interest in any land lying in the area or for declaration or adjudication of any other right in regard to which proceedings can or ought to be taken, pending before any Court or authority whether of the first instance or of appeal, reference or revision, shall, on an order being passed in that behalf by the Court or authority before whom such suit or proceeding is pending, shall stand abated with a view to ensure the jurisdiction of the authorities under the Consolidation Act remain unhampered and the said authorities are not obstructed by the proceedings in civil Courts and their decisions are not impeded by the decisions of the civil Courts. Court clearly made a distinction between abatement under CPC and specific statutes and observed: 424. In Mahendra Saree Emporium (II) VS. G.V. Srinivasa Murthy (2005) 1 SCC 481, the decisions in Ram Adhar (supra), Chattar Singh (supra) and Mst. Bibi Rahmani Khatoon (supra) were referred to and distinguished on the ground that they relate to statutory abatement consequent upon a notification under the State consolidation of holding legislation having been issued and, therefore, when a pending appeal abates, it includes even the suit and decree passed therein since language of statute was wide enough, but that is not the situation in other matters. Court than said in para 13 of the judgment as under: 425.		The effect of abatement of appeal arising from judgment and decree passed in Original suit No. 36 of 1965, thereafter, abated only appeal on account of death of defendant-appellant but plaintiff-respondent, who was alive and had a decree in his favour, was entitled to enjoy fruits of decree which remained operative. 426.		For the reason aforesaid we uphold the submission of Sri Goel and hold that judgment and decree dated 15.07.1970 attained finality and issue returned therein could not have been reagitated by plaintiff in subsequent suit when parties in earlier suit, whose rights are being disputed, are not before Court in subsequent proceedings and among those parties judgment had attained finality vide judgment and decree dated 15.01.1970, after dismissal of appeal as abated. 
 
Whether judgment dated 15.01.1970 would operate as res judicata: 427.		First we proceed to discuss the question of res judicata of the judgment dated 15.06.1970 in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965. 428.		On behalf of appellant it is pleaded that installation of Swami Santanand Saraswati and execution of Will dated 18.12.1952 by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati could not have been reagitated by plaintiff-respondent since both these issues have already been adjudicated in Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953 and Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 hence judgment dated 12.12.1955 and 15.01.1970 would operate as res judicata. It was not open to Trial Court to reagitate the issues already determined in aforesaid two judgments as the same operate as res judicata under Section 11 read with Explanation VI CPC as also barred by Order II Rule 2 read with Order VI Rules 2 and 4 CPC . 429.		The submission of Sri Manish Goel, learned counsel for appellant, is that the said judgment operates as res judicata in respect of declaration of alleged installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram invalid and installation of Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati as valid and that being so, plaintiff in the present case claiming his right after demise of Swami Krishna Bodhashram causing seat of Shankaracharya vacant, which it did not and therefore entire suit is liable to be dismissed for this reason alone. The argument of learned counsel for plaintiff obviously is that plaintiff was not a party in the aforesaid suit and the suit having resulted in abatement of appeal, therefore finding therein cannot be said to have become final. 430.		With regard to genuineness of Will dated 18.12.1952 we find that issue no. 2 was formulated by Court below as under: 431.		Trial Court on the question of Will has observed that its genuineness was already determined in its favour in a matter where plaintiff-respondent was also a party and he also being the President of interim committee was well aware of said Will, hence its genuineness cannot be doubted. Therefore, in the present case neither Will executed in 1952 can be challenged nor it can be examined, whether Swami Santanand Saraswati had knowledge of Sanskrit or not. Findings to this effect recorded by Court below on page 274 Vol. I of APB, read as under: 432.		Trial Court thereafter has proceeded to examine whether plaintiff-respondent was installed as Sankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth/Jyotirmath on 07.12.1973 and answered this question in favour of plaintiff. For our purposes at this stage suffice it to notice that Trial Court in the present case did not touch the genuineness of Will or installation of Swami Santanand as Sankaracharya after death of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and there is no cross appeal by plaintiff-appellant on this aspect, we find no reason to proceed to decide the matter treating said Will to have been proved finally as genuine one and has its natural and legal consequences, as the case may be. 433.		On the question of judgment dated 15.01.1970 passed in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 it has to be examined whether it will operate as res judicata in the suit in question so as to non suit plaintiff-respondent or not. 434.		Before coming to factual aspect of the matter, we find it appropriate to have a bird eye view on the concept of principle of res judicata as has been known in law. 435. 		The legislative history involving the principle of res judicata brings us to the first codified civil procedure i.e. Act 8 of 1859, which was applicable to only the Mofussil Courts (i.e. the Courts of Civil Judicature not established by Royal Charter). Prior thereto, the procedure of Mofussil Courts was regulated by Special Acts and Regulations, which after enactment of Act 8 of 1859 were repealed by Act 10 of 1861. Act 23 of 1861 further amended 1859 Act. Section 42 of Act 23 of 1861 gives short title as ' Code of Civil Procedure ' to parent Act 8 of 1859. In 1862, the Supreme Court and the Courts of Sadar Diwani Adalat in Presidency Towns were abolished by the High Courts Act, 1861 and powers of those Courts were vested in the Chartered High Courts. The Letters Patent of 1862 establishing the High Courts extended the procedure of Act 8 of 1859 to these Courts. The Charter of 1865 which empowered the High Courts to make Rules and Orders regulating proceedings in civil cases, required them to be guided, as far as possible, by the provisions of Code of 1859 and subsequent amending Acts. Act 8 of 1859 was amended from time to time vide Act 4 of 1860, 43 of 1860, 23 of 1861, 9 of 1863, 20 of 1867, 7 of 1870, 14 of 1870, 9 of 1871, 32 of 1871 and 7 of 1872. The Act 8 of 1859, which we can term as the "first codified civil procedure", was repealed and substituted by Act 10 of 1877, which may be termed as "second codified civil procedure". There were only two amendments in this Act, vide Act 18 of 1878 and 12 of 1879. Within five years of the enactment of the second Code, this was also repealed and superseded by Act 14 of 1882, which can be treated as "third Code of Civil Procedure ". It was also amended by Acts 15 of 1882, 14 of 1885, 4 of 1886, 10 of 1886, 7 of 1887, 8 of 1887, 6 of 1888, 10 of 1888, 13 of 1889, 8 of 1890, 6 of 1892, 5 of 1894, 7 of 1895 and 13 of 1895. It was then superseded and substituted by the present Code, i.e., Act No. 5 of 1908, which came into force on 1st January, 1909. 436.	 	All the four Codes were enacted with the preamble mentioning as an Act to consolidate and to amend the laws relating to procedure of the Courts of Civil Judicature meaning thereby the legislature all through intended to construe exhaustive enactments dealing with the matters pertaining to procedure of Courts in civil matters. To consolidate means to collect the statutory law relating to a particular subject and to bring it down to take in order that it may form a useful code applicable to the circumstances existing at the time when the consolidation is enacted as observed by the Privy Council in A.G. of Bengal Vs. Prem Lal Mullick (1895) ILR 22 Cal. 788 (PC). Same view was expressed by our full Bench also in Shantha Nand Gir Chela Vs. Basudevanand AIR 1930 Alld. 225. The purport of such codification means that if the language of the statute is plain, simple and unambiguous, there may not be any occasion for the Court to have recourse to the earlier law but if it is capable of more than one meaning, it is permissible to refer to the previous state of law so as to construe the provision correctly. A consolidating Act raises the presumption that it does not intend to alter the earlier law in its entirety unless the changes and alteration are such so as to show that the earlier law has been made redundant in its entirety. 437.	 	Principle of res judicata, as it stands today, we find has its origin and existence long back besides any boundation of system of jurisprudence whether Hindu law, Muslim law, English law etc. We do not find any substantial change in the principle and the very basis of the concept which if applicable would have to be followed by a Court of law unless it can be shown that the principle of res judicata, as is known, is not at all attracted in a given case. We find that the availability of the principle of res judicata existing in different systems of law has been very painstakingly traced by the Hon'ble Judges of Lahore High Court in a Full Bench decision in Mussammat Lachhmi Vs. Mussammat Bhulli, 1927 ILR (VIII) 384 and it would be useful to have the benefit of such in depth study by reproducing the same as under : There are texts of Parsara (Bengal Asiatic Society Edition, page 56) and of the Mayukha (Kane's Editiona, page 15) to the same effect. 
 
	Among Muhammadan law-givers similar effect was given to the plea of "Niza-I-munfasla" or "Amar Mania Taqrir Mukhalif." Under Roman Law, as administered by the Proetors' Courts, a defendant could repel the plaintiff's claim by means of "exceptio rei judicata" or plea of former judgment. The subject received considerable attention at the hands of Roman jurists and as stated in Roby's Roman Private Law (Vol. II, page 338) the general principle recognized was that "one suit and one decision was enough for any single dispute" and that "a matter once brought to trial should not be tried except, of course, by way of appeal". 
 
	The spirit of the doctrine is succinctly expressed in the well known maxim "Nemo debet bis vexari pro eadem causa" (no one shall be twice vexed for the same cause). At times the rule worked harshly on individuals (E.g., when the former decision was obviously erroneous) but its working was justified on the great principle of public policy "Interest rei publicant sit finis litium" (it is for the public good that there be an end of litigation). 
 
	In some of these ancient systems, however, the operation of the rule was confined to cases in which the plaintiff put forward his claim to "the same subject matter with regard to which his request had already been determined by a competent Court and had passed into judgment". In other words, it was what is described as the plea of "estoppel by judgment" or "estoppel by record", which was recognized and given effect to. In several European continental countries even now the rule is still subject to these qualifications, e.g., in the Civil Code of France, it is said "The authority of the thing adjudged (chose judge) has place only in regard to that which has constituted the object of a judgment. It is necessary that the thing demanded be the same; that the demand be founded upon the same cause; that it be between the same parties and found by and against them in the same capacity."
 
	In other countries, and notably in England, the doctrine has developed and expanded, and the bar is applied in a subsequent action not only to cases where claim is laid to the same property but also to the same matter (or issue) as was directly and substantially in dispute in the former litigation. In other words, it is the identity of the issue, which has already been "necessarily tried" between the parties and on which a finding has been given before, and not the identity of the subject matter which attracts the operation of the rule. Put briefly the plea is not limited to "estoppel by judgment" (or record), but is also extended to what is described as "estoppel by verdict". The earliest authoritative exposition of the law on the subject in England is by Chief Justice DeGrey in the Duchess of Kingston Case (1), which has formed the basis of all subsequent judicial pronouncements in England, America and other countries, the jural systems of which are based on or inspired by British Jurisprudence. In that case a number of propositions on the subject were laid down, the first of them being that "the judgment of a Court of concurrent jurisdiction, directly upon the point, is as a plea a bar, or as evidence conclusive, between the same parties upon the same matter, directly in question in another Court."
 
	In British India the rule of res judicata seems to have been first introduced by section 16 of the Bengal Regulation III of 1793, which prohibited the Zilla and City Courts "from entertaining any cause, which form the production of a former decree of the record of the Court, shall appear to have been heard and determined by any judge or any superintendent of a Court having competent jurisdiction". The earliest legislative attempt at codification of the law on the subject was, however, made in 1859, when the first Civil Procedure Code was passed. Section 2 of the Code barred the cognizance by Courts of suits based on the same cause of action, which had been heard and determined before by Courts of competent jurisdiction. It will be seen that this was only a partial recognition of the English rule in so far as it embodied the principles relating to estoppel by judgment (or record) only and did not extend to estoppel by verdict. In 1877 when the Code was revised, the operation of the rule was extended in section 13 and the bar was no longer confined to the retrial of a dispute relating to the same cause of action but the prohibition equally applied against reagitating an issue, which had been heard and finally decided between the same parties in a former suit by a competent Court. The section has been amended and amplified twice again and has assumed its present form in section 11 of the Code of 1908, the principal amendments which have a bearing on the question before us, being (a) that the expression "former suit" was defined as meaning a suit which has been first decided and not one which was first instituted, and (b) that the competence of a Court is not regulated by the course of appeal of the former suit but by its capacity to try the subsequent suit as an original Court. 
 
	But although the Indian Legislature has from 1859 onwards made several attempts to codify the law on the subject and the present section 11 is a largely modified and improved form of the original section 2 of Act VIII of 1859, it must be borne in mind that the section as even now enacted, is not exhaustive of the law on the subject, and the general principles of res judicata apply to matters on which the section is silent and also govern proceedings to which the section does not in terms apply." 438.	 	It is, thus, evident that Res judicata is a principle or doctrine or concept which is well recognized since ancient times. It is a principle of universal application treated to be a fundamental and basic idea in every developed jural society. The very objective of adjudication of a dispute by an adjudicatory forum, whatever name it is called, is to bring to an end dispute or lis between the parties. The seed of justice, thus, aims to have every matter fairly tried once and, thereafter, further litigation should be barred treating to be concluded for all times to come between the parties. So far as the dispute which has already been adjudicated, it is a rule common to all, well defined in a civilized system of jurisprudence that the solemn and deliberate sentence of law upon a disputed fact pronounced, after a proper trial, by its appointed organ should be regarded as final and conclusive determination of the question litigated and should set at rest, forever, the controversy. This rule which treats the final decision of a competent Tribunal as "irrefragable truth" was well known to Hindu and Mohammadan lawyers and jurists since long as the system is recognized in Hindu as well as Muslim laws also. 439.		So far as Europe is concerned, it is mainly influenced with the legal system of Roman jurisprudence. This principle is one of the great gains of Roman jurisprudence carried to modern jural system of Europe. In the Anglo saxon jurisprudence, this principle is formerly based on an maxim of Roman jurisprudence "interest reipublicae ut sit finis litium" (it concerns the state that there should be an end to law suits) and partly on the maxim "nemo debut bis vexari pro una at eadem cause (no man should be vexed twice over for the same cause). The Act 8 of 1859 provided the principle of the res judicata in Section 2 which read as under : 440.	 	The principle of res judicata vide Section 2 of C.P.C., 1859 came to be considered before the Privy Council in Soorjomonee Dayee Vs. Suddanund Mahapatter (1873) 12 BLR 304, 315 (P.C.). The Judicial Committee said "We are of the opinion that Section 2 of the Code of 1859 would by no means prevent operation of the general law relating to res judicata founded on the principle "nemo debet bis vexari pro eadem causa". 441.	 	In Krishna Behary Ray Vs. Bunwari Lal Ray, (1875) 1 Cal. 144 (146), Privy Council while construing the expression "cause of action" held that it cannot be interpreted in its literal and restricted sense and if a material issue had been tried and determined between the same parties by a competent Court, the same cannot be re-agitated again by the parties in a later suit who were also partied in the former suit. 442.	 	When this view was expressed in some other judgments also the legislature introduced the words "matter directly and substantially in issue" in Section 13 in Act No. 10 of 1877 and 14 of 1882. In Act No. 10 of 1877, it was Section 13 of the Code. 443. In Parthasaradi Ayyangar and others Vs. Chinnakrishna Ayyangar and others Vol. V ILR Madras Series (1882) 304 an interesting question with respect to res judicata and estoppel by verdict and/or estoppel by judgment was considered. An original suit no. 12 of 1850 was instituted by certain persons of Tenkalai sect in the Court of Sadar Amin against the members of Vadakalai sect. A Vadakalai temple was erected in the village of Mathura Mangalam in the honor of a devotee Embar in which the member of Tenkalai sect were interested in maintaining worship and in defending the privileges of the temple. The other sect, namely, Vadakalai, also erected a Vaishnava temple on a private site in the Sanadi (temple) street in honor of a devotee, Vedhanta Desikar, which was later on thrown open for regular public worship. In 1849 the above mentioned suit was filed praying that the Vadakalais be compelled to remove their idols and be prohibited from celebrating festivals and erecting any temple in the village for the worship of their idols. The Vadakalais, defended the suit contending that the general right of owners of land to erect on their own property, places of public worship and to set up therein such idols as they thought fit. Earlier to that suit, it appears that there was some other suit between the same sects wherein the Pandit had delivered an opinion that the public worship of idols of devotees such as the spiritual teachers of the respective sects was not recognized by Hindu law, and that law did not permit persons to assemble together to celebrate to such idols. But where it was customary to do so, such idols might be used in private worship. Relying on the said opinion of the Pandit, the Sadar Amin granted the order of injunction prayed for. In the appeal preferred before the Judge, he held that supposing the worship of which the Tenkalais complained was prejudicial to the interests of the institution they supported, the question being one of conscience, no cause of action accrued to the Tenkalais, and that it was competent to the Vadakalais to adopt the worship of what idols they pleased in pagodas erected on their own lands. It reversed the decree in so much it ordered the removal of the idols and prohibited the Vadakalais from erecting pagodas and celebrating public worship therein. But it found that conduct of procession in honor of Vadakalai idols was an innovation, did not form an essential part of the worship, and might be productive of public disturbance, and, accordingly, passed an order restraining it. Noticing that this part of the order was beyond the relief sought in the plaint, an appeal was preferred before the Sadar Court. The Sadar Court sought for opinion of the Pandits of the Court with respect to Hindu law on the subject who opined that it would be contrary to custom to allow a pagoda to be erected by the Vadakalai Vaishnavas even on their own ground if such an erection was against the feelings generally of the people of the village. He referred to a passage in the preamble of the Mitakshara which declared that "no cases prejudicial to the feelings of the inhabitants of a town or village shall be entertained by a King". The Sadar Court accordingly decreed that the defendants (the Vadakalais) should be prohibited from erecting temple or instituting public worship on the spot of ground objected to by the plaintiffs and which lay within the range of their temple, that is to say, within the usual range of the processions conducted in connection with the temple worship. In another appeal no. 141 of 1856, Sadar Court declared that the right to pass in procession through the public streets of a town in such a way as the Magistrate might not object to as dangerous to the public safety, was a right inherent in every subject of the state and the Vadakalais' action which continued was in disobedience as was restrained by the earlier decree and injunction prohibiting decree was again passed in 1862. Thereafter, Vadakalais removed their idols and erected a building for the purpose of worship on another site. No arrangement of celebration of the public worship was made till 1879 except of occasional processions. However, in 1879 again provision was made for continuous conduct of such worship throughout the year. This led to another suit which ultimately reached to the appellate Court. It was held that the decree in earlier suit cannot preclude the Vadakalais from building a temple or conduct public worship at any other spot and plea of estoppel based on the earlier decisions was held to be inapplicable. The Court held that the matter in issue which was raised and decided in the former suit was not a question of fact but a question of law based on the opinion of Pandit which was found opposed to the law declared to be the law of India under British administration. The Court held that the law of India under British administration as declared is that the persons of whatever sect are at liberty to erect building and conduct public worship on their own land provided they neither invade the rights of property enjoyed by their neighbours nor cause a public nuisance, and that they are also entitled to conduct religious processions through public streets so that they do not interfere with the ordinary use of such streets by the public and subject to such directions as the Magistrate may lawfully give to prevent obstructions of the thoroughfare or breaches of the public peace. The Court held that the principle of res judicata also would not come in way. The Courts are bound to ascertain and apply the law and not to make law. It observed that what was argued was estoppel by verdict and estoppel by judgment. Explaining the "estoppel by verdict", it was held that it indicates that such estoppels are confined to questions of facts and no authority was cited before the Court to warrant the application of rule to determination of an issue of law. Explaining the principle of res judicata, the Court observed, "Although considerations of convenience have established the rule that the final decree of a competent Court is decisive of the rights it declares or refuses notwithstanding it may have proceeded on an erroneous view of the law, and although the same considerations have established the rule that the determination by a competent Court of questions of fact directly and substantially in issue are binding on the parties, these considerations do not suggest the expediency of compelling the Courts to refuse to give effect to what they have ascertained to be the law." However, the Court also said that all earlier decisions were in respect of a different place and would not bar the subsequent suit which was in respect to another spot. 444.	 	In Ram Kirpal Vs. Rup Kuari (1883) ILR 6 (Alld.) 269 (P.C.) it was held that Section 13 of 1877 Act would not apply to execution proceedings but upon general principles of law the decision of a matter once decided in those proceedings was a bar to the same matter being re-agitated at a subsequent stage thereof. 445.	 	Act 5 of 1908 contains the provision of res judicata under Section 11 which substantially is same as it was in Act 14 of 1882, but includes certain explanations clarifying some aspects of the matter considered to be necessary in the light of some judgments of different High Courts. It has undergone some amendments in 1976, but has withstood the test of the time more than a decade. Section 11 of Act 5 of 1908, as it stands today, reads as under : 446.	 	Explanations VII and VIII have been added by Amendment Act of 1976 and admittedly have no application to the dispute in hand. 447.	 	The plea of res judicata is an inhibition against the Court and a finding in favour of a party on the plea of res judicata would oust the jurisdiction of the Court to try the subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been raised, which has been heard and finally decided in the former suit (see : Pandurang Dhondi Chougule Vs. Maruti Hari Jadhav AIR 1966 SC 153. Since, it restrains the Court to try the subsequent suit or an issue raised subsequently, we have no manner of doubt that for the purpose of present case, it is the provision contained in Section 11 of Act 5 of 1908, which will govern the matter and not the earlier one. The application of principle of res judicata is based on public policy and in the interest of the State as well. However, we would like to clarify here itself that we may not be understood as observing that the principle of res judicata is confined to Section 11 of the Act 5 of 1908. As we have already held, the principle of res judicata was well recognized in the ancient legal systems also and it has consistently been held as not limited to the specific words of the Code for its application. 448.	 	One of the oldest case which considered the doctrine of res judicata vide Section 11 , CPC, 1908 is Sheoparsan Singh and others Vs. Ramnandan Prasad 43 IA 91(PC)= 20 C.W.N. 738 (P.C.) wherein their Lordships reminded the dictum in the words of Lord Coke in Priddle Vs. Napper 6 Coke IA 1777 which said "Interest reipublicae ut sit finis litium", otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and pretence of law. (See also Commissioner of Central Excise Vs. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. JT 2009 (6) SC 29). 449.	 	The statement of law as propounded in Sheoparsan Singh (supra) has been approved by the Apex Court in Iftikhar Ahmed Vs. Syed Meharban Ali 1974 (2) SCC 151. 450.	 	Then comes Hook Vs. Administrator General of Bengal 1921 (ILR) 48 (Cal.) 499 (P.C.) wherein it was said that Section 11 of the Code is not exhaustive of the circumstances in which an issue is res judicata. Even though the Section may not apply, the plea of res judicata still would remain operative apart from the limited provisions of the Code, and would bar a subsequent suit on the same issue unless is shown to be inapplicable by the defendants referring to pleading, parties and cause of action etc. It was reaffirmed by Lord Buckmaster in T.B. Ramachandra Rao and another Vs. A.N.S. Ramchandra Rao and others , AIR 1922 PC 80 wherein the remarks were "that the principle which prevents the same case being twice litigated is of general application, and is not limited by the specific words of the Code in this respect." 451. In Kalipada De Vs. Dwijapada Das , AIR 1930 PC 22 the Privy Council held "the question as to what is considered to be res judicata is dealt with by Section 11 of CPC 1908. In that section many examples and circumstances in which the rule concerning res judicata applies are given; but it has often been explained by this Board that the terms of Section 11 are not to be regarded as exhaustive". 452. In Gulam Abbas Vs. State of U.P. , AIR 1981 SC 2199 it was held that Section 11 is not exhaustive of the general doctrine of res judicata. Though the rule of res judicata as enacted in Section 11 has some technical aspects, the general doctrine is founded on consideration of high public policy to achieve two objectives namely that there must be a finality to litigation and that individuals should not be harassed twice over the same kind of litigation. 453.	 	It is thus clear that principle of res judicata is based on sound policy and not an arbitrary one. Henry Campell Black in his Treatise "for law of judgments" 2nd Edition Vol. I, para 242 has observed that "Where the Court has jurisdiction of the parties and the subject matter in the particular case, its judgment unless reversed or annulled or impeachment by parties or privies, in any collateral action or proceeding whatever the Doctrine of this Court, and of all the Courts of this country, is formerly established, that if the Court in which the proceedings took place had jurisdiction to render the judgment which it did no error in its proceedings which did not affect the jurisdiction will render the proceedings void, nor can such errors be considered when the judgment is brought collaterally into question one. This principle is not merely an arbitrary rule or law but it is a doctrine which is founded upon reason and the soundest principle of public policy." 454.	 	In Jenkins Vs. Robertson, (1867) LRIHL 117 Lord Romily observed "res judicata by its very words means a matter upon which the Court has exercised its judicial mind and has come to the conclusion that one side is right and has pronounced a decision accordingly. In my opinion res judicata signifies that the Court has after argument and considerations come to a decision on a contested matter." 455.	 	In Corpus Juris Vol. 34 it is said that it is a rule of universal law providing every regulated system of jurisprudence and is put upon two grounds embodied in various maxims of common law, the one of public policy and necessity which makes it to the interest of the state that there should be an end of litigation, and, the other, hardship on the individual that he should not be vexed twice for the same cause. 456.	 	The Apex Court in Smt. Raj Lakshmi Dasi and others Vs. Banamali Sen and others AIR 1953 SC 33 remarked "When a plea of res judicata is founded on general principles of law, all that is necessary to establish is that the Court that heard and decided the former case was a Court of competent jurisdiction. It does not seem necessary in such cases to further prove that it has jurisdiction to hear the later suit. A plea of res judicata on general principle can be successfully taken in respect of judgments of Courts of exclusive jurisdiction, like revenue Courts, land acquisition Courts, administration Courts, etc. It is obvious that these Courts are not entitled to try a regular suit and they only exercise special jurisdiction conferred on them by the statute. 457. In Lal Chand Vs. Radha Kishan , AIR 1977 SC 789=1977(2) SCC 88 the Apex Court reiterated "the principle of res judicata is conceived in the larger public interest which requires that all the litigation must sooner than later come to an end. The principle is also founded on equity, justice and good conscious which require that a party which has once succeeded on a issue should not be permitted to be harassed by a multiplicity of proceedings involving the same issue". 458. In K. Ethirajan Vs. Lakshmi and others , AIR 2003 SC 4295 the Apex Court refering to para 26 of its earlier judgement in Hope Plantations Ltd. Vs. Taluk Land Board, Peermade, JT 1998 (7) SC 404 held that rule of res judicata prevents the parties to a judicial determination from litigating the same question over again. Where the proceedings have attained finality, parties are bound by the judgement and cannot litigate again on the same cause of action. 459. In Sulochana Amma Vs. Narayanan Nair , AIR 1994 SC 152 the scope of Section 11 CPC was considered and it was said that Section 11 does not create any right or interest in the property but merely operates as a bar to try the same issue once over. It aims to prevent multiplicity of the proceedings and accords finality to an issue which directly and substantially has arisen in the former suit between the same parties or their privies, decided and became final so that parties are not vexed twice over; vexatious litigation would be put to an end and the valuable time of the Court is saved. The above judgement also clarifies Explanation VIII that the decree of a Court of limited jurisdiction would also operate as res judicata in the subsequent suit though the subsequent suit was not triable by that Court. 460.	 	Recently the Apex Court has reiterated the above view in Brij Narain Singh Vs. Adya Prasad, JT 2008 (3) SC 1. 461.	 	The doctrine of res judicata has been extended to public interest litigation also in State of Karnataka and another Vs. All India Manufacturers Organization and others , 2006(4) SCC 683 and the Court has said: 462. In Mathura Prasad Sarjoo Jaiswal and others Vs. Dossibai AIR 1971 SC 2355, the Court clarified that the doctrine of res judicata is in the domain of procedure and cannot be exalted to the status of a legislative direction between the parties so as to determine the question relating to interpretation of the enactment affecting the jurisdiction of the Court finally between them even though no question of fact or mixed question of law and fact and relating to the right in issue between the parties once determined thereby. It also said that a decision of a competent Court on a matter in issue may be res judicata in another proceeding between the same parties; the "matter in issue" may be an issue of fact, an issue of law or one of mixed law and fact. However, the Apex Court said that the previous decision on a matter in issue alone is res judicata; the reasons for the decision are not res judicata, and said as under : 463. 	 	Another aspect as to when the rule of res judicata would not be attracted has been dealt with in detail in para 10 of the judgment in Mathura Prasad Serjoo Jaiswal (supra) which reads as under : 464.	 	In other words, what we discern from the above authorities, is that the res judicata is a fundamental principle in a legal system to set at rest a dispute once settled so as not to trouble the parties again and again on the same matter. It operates on the principle that a question must be once fairly and finally tried by a competent Court and, thereafter, further litigation about it between the same parties must be deemed to have concluded and should not be allowed to be re-agitated. The maxim to be attracted is "no one shall be vexed twice over the same matter". [See Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. (supra)]. 465.	 	It is not that every matter decided in a former suit can be pleaded as res judicata in a subsequent suit. To attract the plea of res judicata, the conditions precedent, which need to be proved are : 466. In Syed Mohd. Salie Labbai Vs. Mohd. Hanifa AIR 1976 SC 1569, the Apex Court said that in attracting the plea of res judicata the following conditions must be proved : 467.	 	In certain cases, the applicability of res judicata qua the aforementioned conditions precedent came to be considered with certain different angles, which may be useful to be referred hereat. 468.	 	One such aspect came to be considered by the Privy Council in Midnapur Zamindary Co. Ltd. Vs. Kumar Naresh Narayan Roy and others , AIR 1924 P.C. 144 which is also a decision cited by Sri Siddiqui. The plaintiff excluded certain question by the statement of his pleader and, therefore, the trial Court did not decide the issue. In the first appeal the defendant urged that the Trial Judge was wrong in not deciding this question even though his action was based on the plaintiff's advisor's statement and the defendant asked the first appellate Court expressly to decide the question. The Court did so. The question was whether it can be argued that the point decided was not raised and, therefore, the Court did not consider it to be a necessary issue. On the contrary when the first appellate Court decided the issue and the same became final, it would operate as res judicata to the subsequent suit involving the same issue. 469.	 	Another angle of the above aspect came to be considered by the Privy Council in Prem Narain Vs. Ram Charan and others , AIR 1932 P.C. 51 where though the point was not properly raised in the plaint but both parties without protest chose to join issue upon that point and it was held that the decision on the point would operate as res judicata between the parties. 470. In Jagdeo Misir Vs. Mahabir Tewari , AIR 1927 All. 803 a Division Bench of this Court held: 471.	 	This has been followed in Lalji Sahib Vs. Munshi Lal , AIR 1943 All 340 and Dhan Singh Vs. Jt. Director of Consolidation, U.P. Lucknow and others , AIR 1973 All. 283. 472. In Dhan Singh (supra) this Court also held that res judicata may apply even though the parties against whom it is sought to enforce did not enter appearance and contest question in the previous suit. But in such a case it has to be shown that such a party had notice that the relevant question was in issue and would have to be decided for which the burden lie on the person who pleaded bar of res judicata. For these propositions this Court followed and relied on Chandu Lal Vs. Khalilur Rahman , AIR 1950 P.C. 17. 473.	 	The proposition advanced is that even if a judgement in a previous case is erroneous it would be binding on the parties thereto and would operate as res judicata in subsequent case as held in Gorie Gouri Naidu (Minor) and another Vs. Thandrothu Bodemma and others , AIR 1997 SC 808 is well settled. 474.	 	In short, we can say that though in order to have the defence of res judicata accepted, it is necessary to show not only that the cause of action was same, but also that the plaintiff had an opportunity of getting the relief in the former proceedings, which he is now seeking. In Jaswant Singh Vs. Custodian of Evacuee Property 1985 (3) SCC 648 it was pointed out that the test is whether the claim in the subsequent suit or proceeding is in fact founded upon the same cause of action, which was the foundation of the former suit or the proceeding. The cause of action for a proceeding has no relation, whatsoever, to the defence, which may be set up, nor does it depend upon the character of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff or the applicant. It refers entirely to the grounds set forth in the plaint or the application, as the case may be, as the cause of action or in other words, to the media upon which the plaintiff or the applicant ask the Court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour. 475. In Talluri Venkata Seshayya and others Vs. Thadikonda Kotiswara Rao and others , AIR 1937 P.C. page 1 we find that there was a case where five temples, subject matter of suit, were built in 19th Century by one Thadikonda Seshayya a native of Vellatur and the grandfather of Kotiswara Rao adoptive father who is said to have earned wealth in Hyderabad and returned to his native place. The temples were built for the deities of Siddhi Ganapati Swami, Rajeswara Swami, Bhimeswara Swami, Adi Seshachala Swami and Kameswara Maharani. Sri Thadikonda Seshayya conducted the festivals and other affairs of the deities during his life time. He left a will dated 26.08.1826 shortly before his death directing his widow, Adilakshmamma to make a permanent endowment for the temples to the extent of Rs. 70,000/- out of his self acquired properties. The widow purchased two sets of properties in the villages of Kowtharam and Peddapulivarru for the temples, conducted the affairs of temples out of the land so purchased, and afterwards made a formal gift of the lands to the idols. Another set of properties in the village of Vellatur was endowed to the same temples by the Zamindar of Narasaraopet. Seshayya's two sons, Siddi Ganapati Doss and Nagabhushana Gajanana Doss conducted festivals and other affairs until the death of Ganapati in 1857. The latter's widow claimed the Dharmakartaship but the Collector decided in favour of Gajanana. In 1859 the Inam Commissioner granted an Inam title deed in respect of the Devadayam Inam situated in the village of Kowtharam. In 1867 Gajanana started borrowing money on the security of Devadayam lands, which culminated in a usufructuary mortgage for Rs. 8000/- dated 15.01.1887 under which the lands of Kowtharam were handed over to the mortgagee. To discharge this mortgage Gajanana and his adopted sons Seshayya granted permanent lease of Kowtharam lands dated 06.12.1888 and on the same date the mortgagee, Gopalkrishnamma executed the counterpart of the lease. Two persons interested in the temples and in the performance of the service and worship thereof who had obtained the leave of the Court under Section 18, Religious Endowments Act, 20 of 1863, on 18.01.1891 filed suit O.S. No. 4 of 1891 in the District Court, Kistna against Gajanana, his adopted son Seshayya and Gopalakrishna claiming that the five suit temples at Vellatur were public temples, therefore, the first two defendants be removed from the office of the Dharmakarta. The main defence taken by the defendants in the said suit was that the temples and lands were private property hence Act, 20 of 1863 did not apply. Gajanana died during the pendency of suit. Vide judgment dated 05.02.1892 the District Judge Kistna dismissed suit holding that the temples were private, lands were a private foundation and Act, 20 of 1863 did not apply. The judgment was confirmed by Madras High Court in appeal vide judgment dated 03.08.1893. One suit was filed by Venkata Seshayya and others on 21.08.1923 as representing the interested public under Order 1 Rule 8 CPC with the requisite permission of the Subordinate Judge of Masaulipatam seeking a declaration that five temples of the village of Vellatur, Guntur District are public temples and that certain Inam lands situated in Kowthavaram village form the endowment of these temples and, therefore, the plaintiff seeking setting aside of a permanent lease in respect of these lands executed on 06.12.1888 by the then Managers of the temples, the mortgage deed on the security of these lands dated 03.11.1900 and the Court sale effected in execution of the decree obtained on the basis of the said mortgage in O.S. No. 29 of 1911. They further seek restoration of possession of these lands to Kotiswara Rao, defendant no. 1 who is the person hereditary Dharmakartha of the temples. Before the Privy Council it was contended on behalf of the appellants conceding that the appellants must be deemed to be claiming under plaintiffs in 1891 suit within the meaning of Explanation VI, Section 11 CPC as they were both claiming as representing the public interest in the temples of Kowthavaram lands and the issue in the two suits was substantially same but it was submitted that 1891 suit was not a bona fide litigation, there was gross negligence in the conduct of the suit by the plaintiff in 1891 suit, and, therefore, the principle of res judicata would not bar the present suit. Rejecting the submission, it was held that the provision of Section 11 CPC is mandatory and the ordinary litigant who claims under one of the parties to the former suit can only avoid its provisions by taking advantage of Section 44 , Evidence Act which defines with precision the grounds of such avoidance as fraud or collusion. The exposition of law stated therein need not be discussed further since it is consistent with what was held subsequently also as has been discussed by us above. 476.	 	During the course of argument, the learned counsel has pleaded and pressed plea of maintainability of suit on the ground of res judicata and estoppel, using both the term it appears to us interchangeably. However, we do not subscribe to the view since it is now well settled that the two are essentially different. It is true that sometimes res judicata has been treated as part of the doctrine of the estoppel, but both have been held to be different in connotation, in application and with reference to the essential indicias thereof. 477.	 	Both these principles are based on public policy and justice. Often they are treated as a branch of law having same traits but both differ in several aspects. Doctrine of res judicata some times is construed as a branch of doctrine of estoppel but as we said earlier both have different connotation. In Hope Plantations Ltd. (supra) in para 26 of the judgement the Apex Court said: 478.	 	The estoppel is part of the law of evidence and prevents a person from saying one thing at one time and opposite thing at another time while res judicata precludes a man from avowing the same thing in successive litigations. (Cassomally Vs. Carrimbhoy (1911) 36 Bom. 214; Radharani Vs. Binodamoyee AIR 1942 Cal. 92; Rajah of Venkatgiri Vs. Provinces of Madras AIR (34) 1947 Madras 5. We find it useful to refer the distinction elucidated by Hon'ble Mahmood J. in Sitaram Vs. Amir Begum (1886) ILR 8 Alld. 324 "Perhaps shortest way to describe difference between the plea of res judicata and estoppel is to say that while the former prohibits the Court from entering into an inquiry at all as to a matter already adjudicated upon, the later prohibits a party after the inquiry has already been entered upon from proving any thing which would contradict his own previous declaration or acts to the prejudice of another party who, relying upon those declaration or acts to the prejudice of another party, has altered his position. In other words, res judicata prohibits an inquiry in limine, whilst an estoppel is only a piece of evidence". 479.	 	Res judicata has been held to be a branch or specie of the rule of estoppel called "estoppel by record". In Guda Vijayalakshmi Vs. Guda Ramchandra Sekhara Sastry , AIR 1981 SC 1143 in para 3 the Apex Court observed: 480.	 	A judgement operates as estoppel on all points considered and decided therein. It is the decision and not decree that creates bar of res judicata. Res judicata, therefore, is estoppel by judgement or record and not by decree. The judgement operates as estoppel in respect to all the findings which are essential to sustain the judgements. What has taken place, recorded and declared final, cannot be questioned subsequently by anyone which has already an opportunity to adjudicate and this is what we call as estoppel on record. The distinction between the doctrine of res judicata and estoppel would lie with the estoppel results from the acts and conduct of the parties while the res judicata prohibits the Court from entering into an inquiry as to a matter already adjudicated upon. While in the case of estoppel it prohibits a party after the inquiry has already been entered upon from proving anything which would contradict his own previous declaration or acts to the prejudice of another party who relying upon those declaration or acts has altered his position. Rule of res judicata prevents the parties to a judicial determination from litigating the same question over and again even though the determination may even be demonstratedly wrong. When the proceedings have attained finality, parties are bound by the judgement and are estopped from questioning it. They cannot litigate again on the same cause of action nor can they litigate any issue which was necessary for decision in the earlier litigation. These two aspects are "cause of action estoppel" and "issue estoppel". It is held that these two terms are of common law origin. 481.	 	The learned counsel for the parties have also addressed this Court as to what does it mean by the words "suit"; "issue"; "directly and substantially in issue" in order to show whether the principle of res judicata would be attracted in the cases in hand or not. 482.	 	To apply the doctrine of res judicata we need to understand the meaning of the word "suit" or "issue", when a matter can be said to be "directly and substantially in issue", can it be said that the parties are same or parties in the earlier suit were the parties under whom the present one are claiming their rights i.e. litigating under the same title. 483.	 	Learned counsel for parties admitted that as per Order IV Rule 1 CPC suit is instituted by placing a plaint and in view of Order VI pleading means plaint and written statement and what constitute a plaint we may look into Order VII. 484.	 	It is not disputed by the parties that the term "suit" has not been defined in CPC . Section 26 says that every suit shall be instituted by presentation of a plaint or in such other manner as may be prescribed. The term "suit" was considered by the Privy Council in Hansraj Gupta and others Vs. Dehradun Mussorie Electric Tramway Company Ltd., AIR 1933 PC 63 and it was held that word "suit" ordinarily, apart from some context, must be taken to mean a civil proceeding instituted by presentation of a plaint. To the same effect is the view expressed by the Madras High Court in Venkata Chandrayya Vs. Venkata Rama Reddy, (1899) 22 Madras 256, Raja Gopa Chettiar Vs. Hindu Religion Endowment Board, Madras, AIR 1934 Madras 103 and by Punjab and Haryana High Court in Union Territory of Chandigarh Vs. Sardara Singh and others , AIR 1981 (Punjab and Haryana) 354. 485.	 	However, if a suit is filed by a pauper under Order XXXIII CPC the same would commence from the moment the application to sue in forma pauperis is presented. (see Matuka Mistry Vs. Kamakhaya Prasad , AIR 1958 (Patna) 264 (FB), Narayana Dutt and another Vs. Smt. Molini Devi, AIR 1964 (Rajasthan) 269, Shripati Quer Vs. Malti Devi , AIR 1967 (Patna) 320). This illustration is only for the purpose to show "any other manner as may be prescribed", contained in Section 26 CPC. 486.	 	Similarly, the "issue" has also not been defined in CPC . Whartons "Law Lexicon" says that "issue" means "the point in question at the conclusion of the pleading between the contending parties in an action, when one side affirms and the other side denies". Order XIV of the Code of Civil Procedure deals with the settlement of "issues" and determination of suit on issues of law or on issues agreed upon. Rule 1 deals with the framing of issues as follows: 487.	 	Then comes as to what constitutes "a matter directly and substantially in issue". One of the tests recognized is, if the issue was necessary to be decided for adjudicating on the principle issue, and, was decided. 488.	 	A collateral or incidental issue is one i.e. ancillary to a direct and substantive issue; the former is an auxiliary issue and the later the principal issue. The expression collateral or incidental in issue implies that there is another matter which is directly and substantially in issue. (Mulla's C.P.C . 16th Edition, Vol. I, page 179). 489.	 	Difficulty, however, in distinguishing whether a matter was directly in issue or collaterally in issue confronted various Courts in different Countries and certain tests were laid down therein. Halsbury's Laws of England (Vol. 16, para 1538, 4th Edn.) says "difficulty arises in the application of the rule, in determining in each case what was the point decided and what was the matter incidentally cognizable, and the opinion of Judges seems to have undergone some fluctuations." 490. 	 	In "The Doctrine of Res Judicata" (2nd Edn., 1969, p. 181), "Spencer Bower and Turner", quoted Dixon, J. of the Australian High Court in Blair Vs. Churran (1939) 62 CLR 464 at page 553; "The difficulty in the actual application of these conceptions is to distinguish the matters fundamental or cardinal to the prior decision on judgment, or necessarily involved in it as its legal justification or foundation, from matters which, even though actually raised and decided as being in the circumstances of the case the determining considerations, yet are not in point of law the essential foundation of a groundwork of the judgment." 491.	 	The aforesaid authorities opined in order to understand this essential distinction, one has always to inquire with unrelenting severity- is the determination upon which it is sought to find an estoppel so fundamental to the substantive decision that the latter cannot stand without the former. Nothing less than this will do. It is suggested by Dixon, J. that even where this inquiry is answered satisfactorily, there is still another test to pass: viz. whether the determination is the "immediate foundation" of the decision as opposed to merely "a proposition collateral or subsidiary only, i.e. not more than part of the reasoning supporting the conclusion." It is well settled, say the above authors, "that a mere step in reasoning is insufficient. What is required is no less than the determination of law, or fact or both, fundamental to the substantive decision." 492.	 	Corpus Juris Secundum (Vol. 50, para 725) noticed the above aspects and conceded it is sometimes difficult to determine when particular issue determined is of sufficient dignity to be covered by the rule of estoppel. It is said that estoppel by judgment does not extend to any matter which was only incidentally cognizable or which came collaterally in question, although it may have arisen in the case and have been judicially passed on. 493.	 	However, this rule did not prevent a judgment from constituting an estoppel with reference to incidental matters necessarily adjudicated in determining ultimate vital point. 494.	 	American Jurispudence (Vol. 46, Judgments, para 422) says; "Under this rule, if the record of the former trial shows that the judgment could not have been rendered without deciding the particular matter, it will be considered as having settled that matter as to all future actions between the parties." 495.	 	The words "substantially" means "of importance and value". When a matter is substantially in issue, when it is of importance and value for the decision of main proceeding. When parties go to a trial on a particular issue treating it as material and invites the Court to give a decision thereon, that will be an issue substantially and directly involved and would operate as res judicata. However, a mere expression of opinion on a question not in issue cannot operate as res judicata as held in Ragho Prasad Gupta Vs. Krishna Poddar AIR 1969 SC 316. 496.	 	In Sajjadanashin Sayed Md. B.E. Edr. (D) By LRS. Vs. Musa Dadabhai Ummer and others 2000 (3) SCC 350, the term "directly and substantially in issue" qua the words "incidental and collateral" came up for consideration. The Edroos family in Gujarat claimed to be descendants of Hazarat Imam Ali, the son-in-law and cousin of Prophet Muhamed. One of the descendants of the said Hazrat came down to India in 1542 A.D. and founded his Gadi at Ahmedabad, Broach and Surat. The members of the Edroos family were Sajjadanashins or Mutavallis of the wakf throughout. The three Rozas at the three places as well as the villages which were granted - not only for the maintenance of these Rozas but also for the benefit of the Waquif's family, - constituted the wakf. The holder was buried in the house and his Dargah is situated in this place. There is also a place for reciting prayers. In an earlier litigation in Sayed Abdula Edrus Vs. Sayad Zain Sayad Hasan Edrus ILR (1889) 13 Bom. 555, a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, traced the history of the wakf and held that the custom of primogeniture did not apply to the office of Sajjadanishin or Mutavalli of this wakf. In a later dispute in Saiyad Jaffar El Edroos Vs. Saiyad Mahomed El Edroos AIR 1937 Bom. 217 another Division Bench held after construing the royal grants relating to the villages Umrao and Orma that the grants were primarily for the Rozas and Dargas and they clearly constituted "wakf" but that the Sajjadanashin or Mutavalli had, however, a right to the surplus income left over after discharge of the legal obligations regarding the wakf. It was thus held that the Sajjadanishin could provide for	 the needs of the indigent members of the family and this was a pious obligation which was only a moral obligation and not a legal obligation and hence the indigent members of the Edroos family, as a right, could not claim maintenance out of the surplus income. Thereafter, Regular Suit No. 201 of 1928 was filed by three plaintiffs under Section 92 C.P.C. impleading father of Sayed Mohamed Baquir-El-Edroos in 1928 after obtaining permission on 22.2.1928 from the Collector under Section 92 C.P.C. for filing the suit. The suit was dismissed on 6.10.1931, the first appeal was dismissed but cross objections were allowed on 21.11.1938 and the second appeal to the High Court was withdrawn. In the aforesaid suit, there were eight points whereof points no. 1 to 7 related to the validity of appointment of the defendant and the nature of the office and the right to the surplus etc. It was held that the appointment of defendant as Sajjadanashin was valid and that the grant of the property was both for the Rozas and for the maintenance, presumably of the Sajjadanashin and his family members. It was also held that the Sajjadanashin had complete power of disposal over the surplus as he was not in the position of an ordinary trustee. It was held that the Sajjadanashin had complete power of disposal over the surplus, hence the plea of plaintiff's complaint about mis-utilization of the income by Sajjadanashin was rejected. Another issue was framed whether the waqf was a private or a public and it was held that it was a private waqf. The District Court held that from 1746 A.D. onwards, the Sajjadanashin were using the revenue of these villages for their own maintenance and that of the members of their family and other dependents. This finding was consistent with the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Saiyad Jaffar El Edroos (supra) wherein this was held permissible. The District Court in view of the fact that Sajjadanashin was from the family and not a stranger or outside held it a private waqf. Thereafter another matter came before the Gujrat High Court in relation to Ahmedabad Rozas wherein also a Single Judge of Bombay High Court in Alimiya Vs. Sayed Mohd. AIR 1968 Guj. 257 rejected a similar plea. This judgment was confirmed by the Division Bench in Sayed Mohd. Vs. Alimiya (1972) 13 Guj.LR 285. In the case before the Apex Court in respect to Rozas at all the three places, the Assistant Commissioner in enquiry no. 142 of 1967 passed an order dated 26.7.1968 accepting the preliminary objection of res judicata but the Joint Charity Commissioner, Gujarat in its order dated 17.12.1973, in appeal, did not accept the said plea which was pressed before him only in respect of the Rozas at Broach and Surat. He set aside the order of Assistant Commissioner and remanded the matter for enquiry. The Assistant Judge in Misc. Civil Application No. 32 of 1974 affirmed the order of Joint Commissioner on 3.9.1976 and it was further affirmed by a Division Bench of Gujarat High Court in First Appeal No. 985 of 1976 on 27.7.1985. Aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the appellant, Sajjadanashin Sayed took the matter to the Apex Court and raised the plea of res judicata in respect of Rozas at Broach and Surat. It is in the light of the above facts, the Apex Court considered the matter. In order to see whether the principle of res judicata is attracted, the Apex Court framed an issue as to what is the meaning of "collaterally and incidentally in issue" as distinguished from "directly and substantially in issue". In para 11, the Apex Court found that the matter collaterally and incidentally in issue are not ordinarily res judicata and this principle has been well accepted but certain exceptions to this principle have also been accepted. The Court also traced out the law on the subject in England, America, Australia and India. Referring to Halsbury's Laws of England (Vol. 16, para 1538, 4th Edn.), the Court observed that the fundamental rule is that a judgment is not conclusive if any matter came collaterally in question or if any matter is incidentally cognizable. The said judgment attained finality since the second appeal filed in the High Court was withdrawn. 497.	 	In the light of the above facts and in this context the Apex Court in Sajjadanashin (supra) in respect of India, affirmed the view of the learned Author Mulla in " C.P.C ." as under: 498. 	 	It also referred to two judgments of the Privy Council in Run Bahadur Singh Vs. Lucho Koer ILR ( 1885) 11 Cal 301 and Asrar Ahmed Vs. Durgah Committee AIR 1947 PC 1 as well as its earlier decision in Pragdasji Guru Bhagwandasji Vs. Ishwarlalbhai Narsibhai 1952 SCR 513 and found that inspite of a specific issue and adverse finding in the earlier suit, the finding was not treated as res judicata as it was purely incidental or auxiliary or collateral to the main issue in each of the three cases and was not necessary for the earlier case nor formed foundation. It also considered Sulochana Amma (supra) and a Madras High Court decision in Vanagiri Sri Selliamman Ayyanar Uthirasomasundar-eswarar Temple Vs. Rajanga Asari Air 1965 Mad. 355 in respect whereto it was pointed out that there was a direct conflict. The Court however found that the said decisions are not contrary to each other but should be understood in the context of the tests referred to above . It held that in Sulochana Amma (supra) it is to be assumed that the tests above referred to were satisfied for holding that the finding as to position was substantially rested on title upon which a finding was felt necessary but in the case before the Madras High Court, it must be assumed that the tests were not satisfied. The Apex Court confirmed the observations of the learned author Mulla in " C.P.C . (Supra)" and said that it all depend on the facts of each case and whether the finding as to title was treated as necessary for grant of an injunction in an earlier suit and was also substantive basis for grant of injunction or not. 499. 	 	Further, the Court in Sajjadanashin (supra) quoted the following from the "Corpus Juris Secundum" (Vol. 50, para 735, p. 229) where a similar aspect in regard to findings on possession and incidental findings on title were dealt with and held, "Where title to property is the basis of the right of possession, a decision on the question of possession is res judicata on the question of title to the extent that adjudication of title was essential to the judgment; but where the question of the right to possession was the only issue actually or necessary involved, the judgment is not conclusive on the question of ownership or title." The Court observed that in the case before it there were certain changes in the statutory law with respect to definition of "public waqf" and in view thereof since now the "private waqf" was also included within the definition of "public waqf" in the Act, due to change in subject it held that the earlier decision would not operate as res judicata. 500. In Sharadchandra Ganesh Muley Vs. State of Maharashtra and others AIR 1996 SC 61, Explanation IV Section 11A containing doctrine of 'might and ought' and application of doctrine of constructive res judicata came to be considered. The Court held that where in respect of land acquisition proceedings an earlier writ petition was filed without raising a plea which was available at that time, in the second writ petition such plea could not have been taken as the doctrine of 'might and ought' engrafted in Explanation IV to Section 11 of the C.P.C. would come into play and the incumbent would be precluded from raising the controversy once over. The Court held that the doctrine of constructive res judicata shall put an embargo on his right to raise a plea as barred by limitation under Section 11A. 501.	 	However, the concept of "constructive res judicata" is necessary to be dealt with in view of Explanation-IV Section 11 C.P.C. A Matter, which might and ought to have been made a ground of attack or defence is a, matter which is constructively in issue. The principle underlying Explanation-IV is res judicata not confined to issues which the Courts are actually asked to decide but cover issues or facts which are so clearly part of the subject matter of the litigation and so clearly could have been raised that it would be an abuse of the process of the Court to allow a new proceeding to be started in respect of them. ( State of U.P. Vs. Nawab Hussain AIR 1977 SC 1680). The proposition of law expounded in the authorities cited by Sri Siddiqui, as referred to above , in para 20 is also unexceptional. However,it would apply only where a plea was available at the time of the suit but not availed of. But there is no question of constructive res judicata where there is no adjudication in the earlier proceedings ( Kewal Singh Vs. Smt. Lajwanti 1980 (1) SCC 290). The effect of Explanation-IV is where a matter has been constructively in issue, it could not from the very nature of the case be heard and decided but will be deemed to have been heard and decided against the parties omitting to allege it except when an admission by the defendant obviates a decision ( Sri Gopal Vs. Pirthi Singh (1902) ILR 24 Alld. 429 (PC); Government of Province of Bombay Vs. Peston Ji Ardeshir Wadia AIR 1949 PC 143). 502.	 	There is an exception to this plea, i.e., where the evidence in support of one ground is such as might be destructive for the other ground, the two grounds need not be set up in the same suit. In Kanhiya Lal Vs. Ashraf Khan AIR 1924 Alld. 355, it was observed that a person claiming property on the allegation that it is wakf property and that he is the Manager thereof is not bound to claim the same property in the same suit alternatively in his own rights in the event of its being held that the property was not wakf property. In Madhavan Vs. Chathu AIR (38) 1951 Madras 285, a suit to recover possession of properties on a claim that they belong personally to the plaintiff was held not barred by reason of a decision in a previous suit, in which they were claimed as belonging to a Tarwad of which he was a member. Similarly, where the right claimed in the subsequent suit is different from that in the former suit; it is claimed under a different form that in the former suit; it is claimed under a different title, the subsequent suit would not be barred by res judicata/constructive res judicata. 503.	 	Next is the question about the "same parties" or "between parties under whom they or any of them claim". In order to find a person by res judicata it must be shown that he was in some way party to the earlier suit as the judgment binds only parties and privies. A person claiming under a party is known as privy. The ground of privity is property and not personal relations. If the plaintiff in subsequent suit claims independent right over the suit property the principle of res judicata would not apply. If the predecessor in interest was party to the suit/proceeding involving the same property then the decision binds his successor in interest. From the record it must be evident that the party sought to be bound was in some way a party to the suit. A person merely interested in the litigation cannot be said to be a party to the suit. Such a person is neither to make himself a party nor can be bound by the result of the litigation as held in Jujjuvarapu Vs. Pappala , AIR 1969 A.P. 76. 504.	 	Where a person in the subsequent suit claims independent right over the suit property the principle of res judicata would not apply. (Byathaiah (Kum) and others Vs. Pentaiah (Kum) and others, 2000 (9) SCC 191). 505.	 	Similarly the party must be litigating under the same title. The test is the identity of title in two litigations and not the identity of the actual property involved in two cases as held in Smt. Raj Lakshmi Dasi and others Vs. Banamali Sen (supra); Ram Gobinda Daw Vs. Smt. H. Bhakta Bala Dassi, AIR 1971 SC 664. 506.	 	Same title means same capacity; the test being whether the party litigating is in law the same or a different person. If the same person is a party in different character, the decision in the former suit does not operate as res judicata. Similarly, if the rights claimed are different, the subsequent suit will not be res judicata simply because the property is identical. Title refers not to cause of action but to the interest or capacity of the party suing or being sued. 507. In Sri Ramjee and others Vs. Bishwanath Pd. Sah and others AIR 1978 Patna 129, former suit was filed by plaintiff alone and in his own rights while the subsequent suit was filed in the name of the deity and it was held not barred as res judicata. 508.	 	Lastly, but not the least, is the concern with respect to Explanation-VI, i.e., representative suit. It provides that where persons litigate bona fide in respect of a public right or a private right claimed in common for themselves and other persons interested in such right, shall, for the purpose of the Section, be deemed to have claimed under the persons so litigating. The counsel for appellant has heavily relied upon this provision. Explanation-VI apparently is not confined to the cases covered by Order 1 Rule 8 C.P.C ., but would include any litigation in which, apart from the rule altogether, parties are entitled to represent interested persons other then themselves. It is a kind of exception to the ordinary rule of res judicata which provide for the former litigation between the same parties or their privies. Even persons, who are not parties in the earlier proceeding, in certain contingencies, may be debarred from bringing a suit subsequently if the conditions contemplated under Explanation-VI Section 11 are satisfied. The conditions to attract Explanation-VI so as to constitute res judicata, which must exist, are : 509.	 	The essentials of representative suit vis a vis the principle of res judicata with reference to Explanation VI Section 11was considered by Privy Council in Kumaravelu Chettiar and others Vs. T.P. Ramaswami Ayyar and others , AIR 1933 PC 183. Prior to the enactment of CPC of 1877 there was no express legislation on the subject of representative suit. In these circumstances, the Courts assumed the task and followed the practice virtually obtained in the Court of Chancery in England. Existence of this practice was demonstrated by referring to a judgment of Madras High Court in Srikanti Vs. Indupuram (1866) 3 M.H.C.R. 226. The Court emphasized that convenience, where community of interest existed, required that a few out of a large number of persons should, under proper conditions, be allowed to represent the whole body, so that in the result all might be bound by the decree, although only some of the persons concerned were parties named in the record. It observed that absence of any statutory provision on the subject, the Courts in India, it would seem, prior to 1877 assumed the task and duty to determine in the particular case whether, without any real injustice to the plaintiffs in the later suit, the decree in the first could properly be regarded as an estoppel against further prosecution by them of the same claim. The first legislation was made vide Section 30 in CPC 1877 which is now found in Order I Rule 8 CPC of 1908. The Privy Council held at page 186: 510.	 	The Privy Council also approved a Calcutta High Court decision in Baiju Lal Vs. Bulak Lal , (1897) 24 Cal 385, where Ameer Ali, J. explaining the position under Section 30 said: 511.	 	In Waqf Khudawand Taala Banam Masjid Mauza Chaul Shahabudinpur vs. Seth Mohan Lal 1956 ALJ 225 a suit for declaration of the property in dispute as a public mosque was filed. It appears that earlier a suit was filed against some Muslims claiming to be the proprietor and notice under Order 1 Rule 8 C.P.C . was also issued to other residents of that locality. Defence taken by Muslims was that property in dispute was a public mosque. The suit was decreed and the defence was not found proved. Thereafter second suit was filed by Muslim parties of neighbouring village wherein the plea of res judicata was taken. Defending the said objection on behalf of plaintiffs it was contended that in earlier case notice under Order 1 Rule 8 was issued to the residents of Chaul Shahabuddinpur and not of the village to which the plaintiffs belonged which is a neighbouring village. However, the Court upholding the plea of res judicata observed that Explanation VI to Section 11 C.P.C. is attracted in the matter and once in respect of a public right the matter has been adjudicated, the decision is binding on all persons interested in that right and they will be deemed to claim under the persons who litigated in the earlier suit in respect of that public right. 512.	 	The question of issue estoppel and constructive res judicata in regard to a judgment in a representative suit came to be considered by the Apex Court in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Vs. Mahant Harnam Singh and others , AIR 2003 SC 3349. The facts, in brief, are necessary to understand the exposition of law laid down therein. Gurdial Singh and Ishwar Singh of Village Jhandawala obtained permission from the Advocate General under Section 92 CPC to institute a suit against one Harnam Singh for his removal from Mahantship. It was stated in the plaint that there was one Guru Granth Sahib at Village Jhandawala, Tehsil and District Bhatinda which was managed by Mahant Harnam Singh as a Mahatmim and he was in possession of the Dera, and agricultural land belonging to Guru Granth Sahib which was a public religious place and was established by the residents of village; it was a public trust created by the residents of the village for the service of the public to provide food from lunger, to allow the people to fulfill religious beliefs and for worship etc. The two plaintiffs in their capacity as representatives of owners of land situated in the village and the residents thereof claim that they were entitled to file a suit under Section 92 CPC. Harnam Singh, Mahant in his written statement took the defence that there was no such interest in the public as to entitle the aforesaid plaintiffs to institute the suit. The trial Court and the High Court recorded a concurrent finding that all Mahants of the institution from Bhai Saida Ram to Mahant Harnam Singh have been Nirmalas. However, the trial Court held that such Nirmala Sadhus are not Sikhs and that the institution was not a Sikh institution. High Court disagreed with this conclusion and held that Sadhus Nirmalas are a sect of the Sikhs and consequently the Sikhs had interest in the institution as it was a Sikh Gurdwara and upheld the plaintiffs claim to file a representative suit under Section 92 CPC. In appeal the Apex Court, however, held (i) Nirmala Sadhus are not Sikhs; (ii) the mere fact that at some stage there was a Guru Granth Sahib in the Dera in dispute cannot lead to any conclusion that the institution was meant for or belonged to the followers of the Sikh religion. The Dera was maintained for entirely a distinct sect known as Nirmals Sadhus who cannot be regarded as Sikhs; (iii) the institution was held to be not belonging to the followers of the Sikh religion; (iv) the plaintiffs in their mere capacity of followers of Sikh religion could not be held to have such interest as to entitle them to institute a suit under Section 92 CPC. This judgement dated 24.02.1967 of the Apex Court is reported as Mahant Harnam Singh Vs. Gurdial Singh and another , AIR 1967 SC 1415. In the meantime it appears that under Section 7(1) of Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, 60 persons claiming to be worshippers made a petition for declaring the institution in question, i.e., Guru Granth Sahib situated in Village Jhandawala, District Bhatinda to be a Sikh Gurdwara. The Punjab Government by notification dated 23.01.1961 made such a declaration under Section 7(3) of the aforesaid Act. It may be pointed out that these 60 persons also included the two plaintiffs of earlier litigation, i.e., Gurdial Singh and Ishwar Singh. Mahant Harnam Singh with others filed counter petition under Section 8 of Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 stating that the institution was not a Sikh Gurdwara but was a Dera Bhai Saida Ram. A similar petition under Section 8 was also moved by 58 persons of the Dera making a similar claim. Both these petitions were forwarded by the State Government to the Tribunal for disposal. The Tribunal formulated the following two questions: (1) what is the effect of the judgment of the Apex Court in Mahant Harnam Singh (supra); and (2) whether the institution in dispute was a Sikh Gurdwara. The Tribunal decided issue no. 1 as a preliminary issue vide order dated 08.03.1977 and held that the decision in Mahant Harnam Singh (supra) would not bar the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to decide claim petition under Section 7 of the Act. The order of the Tribunal attained finality since challenge before the High Court and Apex Court was unsuccessful. Thereafter, issue no. 2 was taken up and the Tribunal held that the institution was a Sikh Gurdwara, originally established by Sikhs and the object of worship was Guru Granth Sahib because the majority of villagers were Sikhs and Nirmalas are Sikhs. This order of the Tribunal in respect of issue no. 2 was challenged before the High Court. It held that the Tribunal had lost sight of the decision in Mahant Harnam Singh (supra). It is this order of the High Court which was taken in appeal before the Apex Court, which held that once in a suit instituted under Section 92 CPC a categorical finding was recorded that (i) Nirmala Sadhus are not Sikhs; (ii) the Dera was maintained for entirely a distinct sect known as Nirmals Sadhus who cannot be regarded as Sikhs; (iii) the mere fact that at some stage there was a Guru Granth Sahib in the Dera cannot lead to any conclusion that the institution was meant for or belonged to the followers of Sikh religion, these findings were rendered in suit filed under Section 92 CPC, therefore, cannot be reagitated and any challenge thereto is precluded on the principle of issue estoppel. The nature of suit under Section 92 CPC was explained by the Apex Court in para 19 of the judgement referring to its earlier decision in R. Venugopala Naidu and others Vs. Venkatarayulu Naidu Charities and others , AIR 1990 SC 444 holding that a suit under Section 92 CPC is a suit of special nature for the protection of public rights in the public trust and charities. The suit is fundamentally on behalf of the entire body of persons who are interested in the trust. It is for vindication of public rights. The beneficiaries of the trust, which may consist of public at large, may choose two or more persons amongst themselves, for the purpose of filing a suit under Section 92 CPC and the suit-title in that event would show only their names as plaintiffs. In the circumstances, it cannot be said that the parties to the suit are only those persons whose names are mentioned in the suit-title. The named plaintiffs being the representatives of public at large, which is interested in the trust, of such interested persons, would be considered in the eyes of law to be parties to the suit. A suit under Section 92 CPC is thus a representative suit and as such binds not only the parties named in the suit-title but all those who share common interest and are interested in the trust. It is for that reason that Explanation 6 to Section 11 CPC constructively bars by res judicata the entire body of interested persons from reagitating the matter directly and substantially in issue in an earlier suit under Section 92 CPC. 513.	 	It is well settled law that explanation to a Section is not a substantive provision by itself. It is entitled to explain the meaning of the words contained in the Section or to clarify certain ambiguities or clear them up. It becomes a part and parcel of the enactment. Its meaning must depend upon its terms. Sometimes, it is for exclusion of some thing and sometimes excludes something from the ambit of the main provision or condition of some words existing therein. Therefore, an explanation should be read harmoniously so as to clear any ambiguity in the main section. A clash of interest in the parties would oust the applicability of Explanation-VI. 514. In Commissioner of Endowments and others Vs. Vittal Rao and others (2005) 4 SCC 120, it was held that even though an issue was not formerly framed but if it was material and essential for the decision of the case in the earlier proceedings and the issue has been decided, it shall operate as res judicata in the subsequent case. 515. In Vithal Yeshwant Jathar Vs. Shikandarkhan Makhtumkhan Sardesai AIR 1963 SC 385, it was held : 516.	 	These are the few general principles, which we have considered and elaborated to find answer to the issues relating to res judicata and estoppal raised by learned counsels for the parties. 517. In Madhukar D. Shende Vs. Tarabai Aba Shedage , 2002(2) SCC 85 plaintiff who has lost in all the three Courts below took appeal in Supreme Court. A suit for declaration of title and preventive injunction and in alternative for recovery of possession was dismissed by Trial Court and second appeal was dismissed by High Court. Plaintiff set up the case in respect of disputed property which was admittedly owned by late Bhagubai, who expired on 24.09.1963. Before death of Bhagubai, as claimed by plaintiff, he executed a registered deed of Will on 22.09.1963 in favour of Chingubai, sister of Bhagubai. Chingubai by registered sale deed dated 24.09.1976 transferred property to plaintiff. Courts below held that Will was not proved due to suspicious circumstances and plaintiff failed to prove its title over disputed land hence dismissed same. Before Supreme Court defendant-respondent admitted that there was no proof of title of defendant over suit property. It also gave up its plea of acquisition of title by adverse possession. It was also not disputed that disputed property vested in Bhagubai and sale deed executed by Chingubai in favour of plaintiff was also proved. Therefore, dispute was only with regard to Will which the Courts below held not proved due to suspicious circumstances and that was the issue considered by Supreme Court. Court observed that requirement of proof of a Will is the same as any other document excepting that evidence tendered in proof of a will should additionally satisfy requirement of Section 63 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 and Section 68 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Law of evidence does not permit conjecture or suspicion having the place of legal proof nor permits them to demolish a fact otherwise proved by legal and convincing evidence. Well founded suspicion may be a ground for closer scrutiny of evidence but suspicion alone cannot form foundation of a judicial verdict positive or negative. One who propounds a Will must establish competence of testator to make Will at the time when it was executed. The factors, such as, Will being a natural one or being registered or executed in such circumstances and ambience, as would leave no room for suspicion, assume significance. Who are the persons propounding and supporting a 
 
Will as against the person disputing Will and pleadings of parties would be relevant and of significance. In this regard Court found that relevant piece of evidence, i.e., an earlier judgment was not considered by Courts below inasmuch as one of the property (not subject matter of suit) was earlier pleaded to a dispute between same parties. Said property was under tenancy of Tarabai as a tenant of Bhagubai and suit property was trespassed upon by Tarabai. With regard to tenanted premises Chingubai filed a suit for ejectment against Tarabai after terminating his tenancy and claiming right to sue by virtue of same Will dated 22.09.1963. Tarabai in said suit had denied Will. Trial Court dismissed suit. First Appellate Court allowed appeal observing that Will was challenged by a mere tenant having no interest in property except by adverse possession, evidence which was tendered, adequate to prove testamentary capacity as well as the execution of the Will. Judgment of First Appellate Court was upheld by High Court by dismissing writ petition filed by Tarabai under Article 227 of the Constitution upholding the findings of Lower Appellate Court on the Will to be duly attested and registered document executed by Bhagubai. 518.		Before Supreme Court plaintiff's counsel sought to plead the aforesaid findings in earlier proceeding as res judicata but the Court found that neither plea of res judicata was taken in Courts below nor there was any such issue. Court found that res judicata is a mixed question of fact and law and in absence of any such plea taken before Courts below, it cannot be permitted to be raised before highest Court for the first time. However, Court finds that still the judgment of earlier litigation between same parties was a relevant piece of evidence under Sections 11 , 13 and 35 of Evidence Act having material bearing on the controversy arising for decision in subsequent suit. This material aspect was completely overlooked by all the three Courts and this was a serious error of law having consequence on the findings on most vital issue on the said case. Court also found that alleged suspicious circumstances were all untenable and constitute irrelevant consideration to negative the otherwise well admissible proof to establish the Will. It observed: 519.		This judgment, in our view, does not help parties on the issue of res judicata since it has been decided on the ground that relevant piece of evidence, i.e., judgment of Court rendered in respect of a property between same party relating to same document of Will was not considered by Courts while recording a contrary finding in respect of same document, i.e., 'Will'. 520.		One of the decisions relied by learned counsel for appellant relating to religious endowment is Dr. Subramanian Swamy vs. State of Tamil Nadu and others , 2014(5) SCC 75. It relates to Sri Sabhanayagar Temple at Chidambaram. Temple was in existence since time immemorial. It was being administered by Podhu Dikshitars, all male married members of the families of Smarthi Brahmins who claim to have been called for the establishment of the Temple in the name of Lord Natraja. In 1927 Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1927 was enacted by State of Madras, which was repealed by Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the "MHRCE Act, 1951"). Pursuant to MHRCE Act, 1951 Government promulgated scheme for management of Temple by constituting Hindu Religious Endowments Board, Madras, which appointed an Executive Officer for the management of the Temple vide order dated 28.08.1951. This order dated 28.08.1951 was challenged by Dikshitars before High Court in a writ petition which was allowed vide judgment dated 13.12.1951 and said order was quashed. Holding that the Dikshitars constituted a 'religious denomination' and their position vis-à-vis the Temple was analogous to Muttadhipati/Mutt, hence the order passed by Board was violative of Article 26 of the Constitution. State of Madras's appeal was dismissed by Supreme Court on 09.02.1954 whereupon notification was withdrawn by State Government. Subsequently, MHRCE Act, 1951 was repleaded by Tamil Nadu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the "TNRCE Act, 1959") and therein also statutory authorities were empowered to appoint Administrative Officer to administer the religious institutions. However certain safeguards were provided under various provisions including Section 107 of TNRCE Act, 1959. Commissioner, Religious Endowments on 31.07.1987 appointed an Executive Officer and on 05.08.1987 passed an order defining duties and powers of Executive Officer appointed for administration of temple. These orders were again challenged in writ petition before High Court which was dismissed vide judgment dated 17.02.1997. An intra-Court appeal was preferred by Dikshitars which was disposed of vide order dated 01.11.2004 giving liberty to Dikshitars to file a revision before Government under Section 114 of TNRCE Act, 1959 since writ petition was filed without exhausting statutory remedy. Consequently, revision was filed but dismissed on 09.05.2006. This revisional order was challenged in writ petition which was also dismissed vide judgment dated 02.02.2009 holding that finding that Dikshitars were religious denomination hold in Marimuthu Dikshitar v. The State of Madras and Anr., 1952(1) MLJ 557 would not operate as res judicata. The writ appeal preferred by Dikshitars wherein Dr. Subramanian Swamy was also allowed to be a party was dismissed vide judgment dated 15.09.2009, hence matter went to Supreme Court in aforesaid case. 521.		It was argued that a declaration made by Court in a list between Dikshitars, State and Religious Endowment Commissioner acknowledging them as religious denomination would operate as res judicate and the High Court could not have taken an otherwise view in a subsequent litigation. It was also argued that under TNRCE Act, 1959 State may have a power to regulate activities of temple but lack competent to direct Dikshitars from their right to manage and administer the Temple and its property. 522.		The issue was contested on the ground that Article 26(d) applies only when temple/property is owned and established by 'religious denomination', which was not the case so far as Dikshitars are concerned and, therefore, earlier judgment will not operate as res judicata. After examining provisions of TNRCE Act, 1959 Court observed that it did not contemplate supersession of administration in perpetuity but it provides a temporary measure till the evil gets remedied. Court also explained the meaning of expression "religious denomination" by referring to its earlier decision in Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Tirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt , AIR 1954 SC 282 that word "denomination" as per Oxford Dictionary means, "a collection of individuals classed together under the same name: a religious sect or body having a common faith and organisation and designated by a distinctive name". Court observed that practice of setting up Maths as centres of theological teaching was started by Shri Sankaracharya and was followed by various teachers since then. After Sankara, came a galaxy of religious teachers and philosophers who founded the different sects and sub sects of the Hindu religion that we find in India at the present day. Each one of such sects or sub-sects can certainly be called a religious denomination, as it is designated by a distinctive name, in many cases in the name of the founder and has a common faith and common spiritual organization. Court also held that the issue, whether Dikshitars constitute a 'religious denomination' and whether they have a right to participate in administration of Temple, both stood finalized by High Court in the earlier judgment i.e. Marimuthu Dikshitar (Supra) and, thus, doctrine of res judicata is applicable in full force. 523.		On the question of res judicata Court formulated question, whether an issue in a case between same parties, which had been finally determined could be negated relying upon interpretation of law given subsequently in some other cases. It answered the said question in negative. Court stressed upon the fact that when an issue between same parties have already been settled in earlier lis, it must be treated to have come to an end and should not be allowed to be reagitated in subsequent proceedings. In this context it explained the meaning of 'res' stating: 524.		Referring earlier decisions, in Dr. Subramanian Swamy vs. State of Tamil Nadu (supra) Court also said: 525. In Smt. Raj Lakshmi Dasi and Ors. v. Banamali Sen and Ors. , AIR 1953 SC 33 in para 15 Court said: 526. In Satyadhyan Ghosal Vs. Deorajin Debi , AIR 1960 SC 941 scope of principle of res judicata was explained as under: 527.		The above observations have been followed in Daryao Vs. State of U.P , AIR 1961 SC 1457; Greater Cochin Development Authority Vs. Leelamma Valson , 2002(2) SCC 573; and, Bhanu Kumar Jain Vs. Archana Kumar , 2005(1) SCC 787. 528.		A Constitution Bench of Supreme Court applied the doctrine of res judicata in writ jurisdiction also in Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. Vs. Janapada Sabha Chhindwara , AIR 1964 SC 1013 and said: 529. In Hope Plantations Ltd. (supra) Court in paras 17 and 26 said as under: 26. .... Rule of res judicata prevents the parties to a judicial determination from litigating the same question over again even though the determination may even be demonstratedly wrong. When the proceedings have attained finality, parties are bound by the judgment and are estopped from questioning it." 530. In Gulabchhand Chhotalal Parikh vs. State of Gujarat , AIR 1965 SC 1153 Court said that provisions of Section 11 CPC are not exhaustive with respect to all earlier decision operating as res judicata between same parties on same matter in controversy in a subsequent regular suit, and on the general principle of res judicata, any previous decision on a matter in controversy, decided after full contest or after affording fair opportunity to the parties to prove their case by a Court competent to decide it, will operate as res judicata in a subsequent regular suit. It is not necessary that the Court deciding matter formerly be competent to decide subsequent suit or that former proceeding and the subsequent suit have same subject matter. 531. In Erach Boman Khavar Vs. Tukaram Shridhar Bhat and another , 2013(15) SCC 655 question up for consideration was, whether principle of res judicata would attract at successive stages of same litigation and if so in what circumstances. 532.		Father of Erach Boman Khavar entered into an agreement of leave and licence with M/s Poysha Industrial Co. Ltd. in respect of a flat owned by him. Period of licence expired but M/s Poysha Industrial Co. Ltd. continued to pay licence fee and same was accepted by father of Erach Boman Khavar without prejudice. In 1990 a suit for eviction was instituted against Company and sub-tenant under Bombay Rent Act, 1947. On 04.03.1997 the sub-tenant, i.e., Tukaram Shridhar Bhat filed application seeking impleadment contending that he is a sub-tenant. He was also in fact Managing Director of Company. Impleadment application was allowed by Small Cause Court and Tukaram Shridhar Bhat was allowed to be impleaded as defendant. When suit was pending in a separate proceeding before Company Judge in a winding up matter on 09.01.1998, a winding up order was passed against Company. Landlord filed application before Company Judge seeking possession of flat. On 14.02.2000 Company Judge rejected said application expressing its opinion that before premises could be returned, rights of person to occupy the premises are required to be determined. It also observed that there is no legal or valid subsisting tenancy or sub-tenancy that the premises could be returned to landlord. This order of Company Judge dated 14.02.2000 was challenged before Division Bench but appeal was dismissed on 22.08.2000. Thereafter father of Erach Boman Khavar filed an amendment application in plaint for incorporating certain grounds including unlawful subletting by Company to Tukaram Shridhar Bhat. This application was rejected vide order dated 09.11.2000 on the ground that Bombay Rent Act, 1947 have been repealed on 31.03.2000. Thereafter landlord filed Suit No. 226/336 of 2001 in Small Cause Court for eviction on the ground of illegal subletting. Said suit was filed after obtaining leave from Company Judge. On 02.01.2002 original plaintiff, i.e., father of Erach Boman Khavar died and thereafter legal representative, i.e., appellant was brought on record. Suit was ultimately dismissed as withdrawn on 12.07.2004. On 21.09.2005 appellant, i.e., Erach Boman Khavar terminated tenancy and on 18.10.2005 filed an application before Company Judge under Section 446 of Companies Act, 1956 seeking permission to file eviction suit in Small Cause Court as the respondent-Company was not entitled to protection under Maharashtra Rent Control Act, 1999 . Company Judge granted permission for filing of amendment but no such amendment was filed. On 27.07.2006 Company Judge allowed application in terms of prayer clause (a) without prejudice to rights and contentions of official liquidator to raise objections as permissible in law. Thereafter an application for recall was filed observing that Court was misled as if suit had already been instituted though no such suit was instituted. The application was rejected by Company Judge. This order was challenged before Division Bench, which allowed appeal and set aside orders dated 27.07.2006 and 28.09.2006 passed by Company Judge and matter was remitted to Company Judge. Again Company Judge granted leave. The Division Bench allowed appeal holding that second application for leave was not maintainable and barred by principle of res judicata being a successive application in the same Court on self-same facts. This order of Division Bench was taken in appeal before Supreme Court. Supreme Court first examined the matter on merits and found that grant of leave of Court was not a condition precedent for initiation of civil or legal proceedings. It could have been obtained even after initiation of proceedings. Secondly suit property was not property of Company and so it was not a case where the Company was to face deprivation of its right and claims are to be adjudicated by Company Judge. Company Judge was already apprised of said fact when application was filed. Coming to the question of res judicata Court reaffirmed the principle that between two stages in same litigation when a Court at earlier stage decided matter in one way, will not allow the parties to reagitate the same at the subsequent stage of the suit. Court relied on a three Judge Bench decision in Satyadhyan Ghosal Vs. Deorajin Debi (supra). 533.		This principle however was subsequently explained in Arjun Singh Vs. Mohindra Kumar , AIR 1964 SC 993 and in para 11 the Court said: 534.		Further in Arjun Singh Vs. Mohindra Kumar (supra) Court said that there are different kinds of interlocutory orders; some like orders of stay, injunction or Receiver are designed to preserve the status quo pending the litigation and to ensure that parties might not be prejudiced by normal delay which the proceedings before Court usually take. They do not, in that sense, decide in any manner merits of controversy in issue in suit and do not, of course, put an end to it even in part. Such orders are certainly capable of being altered or varied by subsequent applications for same relief, though normally only on proof of new facts or new situations which subsequently emerge. As they do not impinge upon legal rights of parties to litigation the principle of res judicata does not apply to findings on which these orders are based, though if applications were made for relief on the same basis after the same has once been disposed of, Court would be justified in rejecting same as an abuse of process of Court. There are other orders which are also interlocutory, but would fall into a different category. These are not directed to preserve property pending the final adjudication, but are designed to ensure just, smooth, orderly and expeditious disposal of suit. They are interlocutory in the sense that they do not decide any matter in issue arising in the suit, nor put an end to the litigation. 535. In Erach Boman Khavar (supra) Court examining aforesaid aspect in para 39 of judgment said: 536.		The well established principle discussed in above judgements, however, in our view would have no application to present case and could not help appellant at all. 537. In Dadu Dayal Mahasabha, Jaipur (Trust) Vs. Mahant Ram Niwas and another , 2008(11) SCC 753 principle of res judicata and Order 2 Rule 2 CPC were sought to be applied having regard to an observation made by Supreme Court in a judgement. Appellant-Dadu Dayalu Mahasabha was a public trust registered under the Rajastha Public Trusts Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the "RPT Act, 1959"). Acquisition of Gaddi and Managment of said trust became a subject matter of dispute in suit. Mahant Mani Ram Swami was holder of said Gaddi. Mahant Ram Niwas claiming himself to be the Pota Chela of Mahant Mani Ram Swami, claimed his right to Gaddi and Management. Suit No. 295/2 of 1964 was filed by Mahant Ram Niswas in the Court of Senior Sub-Judge, Rohtak. Another Suit No. 46 of 1967 was filed by Mahant Mani Ram Sadhu Dadu Panthi. On both suits permanent injunction was prayed. Trial Court dismissed suit of Mahant Ram Niwas answering following issues against him: 538.		Appeal was dismissed by Additional Judge Judge, Rohtak though it reversed the finding of Trial Court in regard to Issue-4. Second appeal preferred before High Court was allowed by permitting production of register as additional evidence and reversing findings of Trial Court on Issue-1. Appeal preferred before Supreme Court was allowed vide order dated 02.02.1987 and order passed in appeal reads as under: 539.		In view of observations made by Supreme Court that there will be no restraint in the way of respondent-plaintiff in filing a suit for possession, second round of litigation commenced. Mahant Ram Niwas filed a fresh suit in which he included as second plaintiff-Gaddi Dadu Dawara Kalanaur through himself. Trial Court held second suit barred by principle of res judicata holding that issues arising therein being directly and substantially, between same parties in the previous suit, hence barred by principle of res judicata. First Appellate Court reversed the judgment of Trial Court holding that neither principle of res judicata nor Order 2 Rule 2 are attracted. High Court also dismissed appeal hence defendant preferred appeal before Supreme Court. In this backdrop Supreme Court in Dadu Dayal Mahasabha, Jaipur (supra) said in paras 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 34, 35, 42 and 43 held as under: 22. The judgment of a Court, it is trite, should not be interpreted as a statute. The meaning of the words used in a judgment must be found out on the backdrop of the fact of each case. The Court while passing a judgment cannot take away the right of the successful party indirectly which it cannot do directly. An observation made by a superior Court is not binding. What would be binding is the ratio of the decision. Such a decision must be arrived at upon entering into the merit of the issues involved in the case. 23. If the judgment and order of the first appellate Court dated 2nd January, 1973 was restored by this Court in its order dated 2nd February, 1987, the finding arrived at by it attained finality. The issues determined therein would be, thus, binding on the parties. 24. Section 11 of the Code not only recognizes the general principle of res judicata, it bars the jurisdiction of the Court in terms of Section 12 thereof. 25.	Explanation IV of Section 11 of the Code extends the principle of res judicata stating that the reliefs which could have been or ought to have prayed for even if it was not prayed for would operate as res judicata. Section 12 thereof bars filing of such suit at the instance of a person who is found to be otherwise bound by the decision in the earlier round of litigation and in a case where the principle of res judicata shall apply. 26. 	We, however, are not unmindful of the principles of estoppel, waiver and res judicata, are procedural in nature and, thus, the same will have no application in a case where judgment has been rendered wholly without jurisdiction or issues involve only pure questions of law. Even in such cases, the principle of issue estoppel will have no role to play. 27.	However, once it is held that the issues which arise in the subsequent suit were directly and substantial in issue in the earlier suit, indisputably Section 11 of the Code would apply. 28. Similarly the provisions of Order II Rule 2 bars the jurisdiction of the Court in entertaining a second suit where the plaintiff could have but failed to claim the entire relief in the first one. We need no go into the legal philosophy underlying the said principle as we are concerned with the applicability thereof. 32. Having noticed the effect of a stray observation made by a superior Court viz-a-viz applicability of the principle of res judicata we may also notice the applicability of the principle of issue estoppel. 34.	The question which is, thus, required to be posed is what was in issue in the earlier suit. 35.	The issue indisputably was the claim of entitlement to Gaddi by the first respondent and a plea contra thereto raised by the appellants. Once the issue of entitlement stood determined, the same would operate as res judicata. We may notice some precedents for appreciating the underlying principles thereof. Section 11 of the Code, thus, in view of the issues involved in the earlier suit, the provisions thereof shall apply. 42. Even in a case of title, Explanation IV to Section 11 would apply. (See also Sulochana Amma Vvs. Narayanan Nair: 1994 (2) SCC 14). 43. Furthermore in terms of Section 5 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 a suit for possession must be filed having regard to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure . If the statute provides for the applicability of the Code of Civil Procedure , there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that all the relevant provisions thereof shall apply. (See Shamu Suhara Beevi vs. G. Alex and another : ( 2004) 8 SCC 569) & Hardesh Ores (P) Ltd. vs. Hede and Co.:2007 (5) SCC 614)."
 
(emphasis added)." 540. In State of U.P. vs. Nawab Hussain , 1977(2) SCC 806 in paras 3 and 7, Court said: 7. 	....That, in turn, led the High Court to the conclusion that the principle of constructive res judicata could not be made applicable to a writ petition, and that was why it took the view that it was competent for the plaintiff in this case to raise an additional plea in the suit even though it was available to him in the writ petition which was filed by him earlier but was not taken. As is obvious, the High Court went wrong in taking that view because the law in regard to the applicability of the principle of constructive res judicata having been clearly laid down in the decision in Devilal Modi case, it was not necessary to reiterate it in Gulabchand case as it did not arise for consideration there. The clarificatory observation of this Court in Gulabchand case was thus misunderstood by the High Court in observing that the matter had been "left open" by this Court."
 
(emphasis added) 541. In Bhanu Kumar Jain Vs. Archana Kumar , 2005(1) SCC 787 Court discussed the principles of "issue estoppel" and "constructive res judicata" and said in paras 29 and 30 as under: 542.		The judgment in U.P. State road Transport Corporation Vs. State of U.P. and another , 2005(1) SCC 444 deals with applicability of res judicata between two stages in same litigation. Court relying on its earlier decision in Satyadhyan Ghosal Vs. Deorajin Debi (supra) in para 11 of the judgment said as under: 543.	Court found, when it had already held that draft scheme dated 13.02.1986 had not lapsed, the controversy stood already decided and High Court could not have taken a different view by re-examining the matter. In our view, this judgment does not help appellant for the issue in question in this appeal. 544.	In order to attract principle of res-judicata, amongst others, two integral conditions are that former suit must have been between the same parties or under whom they or any of them claims and second conditions is that parties must have litigated under same title in the former suit. 545.	Learned counsel for appellant contended that plaintiff pleaded that he was nominated by Swami Krishna Bodhashram before breathing last and, therefore, plaintiff claim his succession and installation to the Office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on the basis of nomination by Swami Krishna Bodhashram which was subsequently approved and accepted by various other religious bodies and Shankaracharyas of other Peethas. He submitted that the condition that earlier suit must have been between same party or parties under whom subsequent suit is claimed is well satisfied, hence, earlier suit would operate as res-judicata. 546.	The plaintiff, however, has stated that neither the principle of res-judicata will be attracted in the case in hand nor the judgment in Original suit No. 36 of 1965 would have any binding effect or otherwise bar on plaintiff from raising any issue which he otherwise could have raised and he cannot be prevented from raising such an issue on the ground that the same has already been decided in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 for the reason that issue was personal and not to the estate and it died with the death of one of the parties since cause of action thereafter did not survive. He argued that the Office of Shankaracharya is a matter of status and not connected with property so as to attract principle of impleadment or substitution of legal representatives and, therefore, he submitted that appeal in fact became non prosecutable since cause of action was personal and nothing survived after death of one of the party. Therefore, said decision would be of no consequence against plaintiff. He also submitted that plaintiff cannot be said to be legal representative of Swami Krishna Bodhashram for the reason that his installation in the office of Shankaracharya is not by way of succession but it is a separate, individual, independent installation by learned Pandits, other Shankaracharyas and renowned persons having faith in Sanatan Dharm. Therefore, right and claim of plaintiff is totally independent of Swami Krishna Bodhashram. He referred to definition of ''legal representative' under Section 2(11) CPC and contended that by no stretch of imagination, plaintiff can be treated to be legal representative of Swami Krishna Bodhashram and cause of action was totally independent and it has nothing to do with installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram in the office and on his death therefore whatever litigation has been carried out between the appellant and Swami Krishna Bodhashram or others would have no consequence so far as right and claim of plaintiff is concerned. He also relied on certain authorities, which we would discuss at a later stage. Now, in the light of principle of res judicata, as discussed above, as also the effect of abatement of appeal when defendant-appellant has died, we would examine the defence set up by plaintiff as noticed above. 547.	The seat of Shankaracharya, as such, is not testamentary in the sense that there is no line of succession in natural or statutory manner but outgoing Shankaracharya, following the customs and usages of nominating his successor, has right to nominate a successor and that is how successor gets installed on the seat of Shankaracharya. If no nomination is made by outgoing Shankaracharya and seat is vacated, either on account of his death or otherwise, only in such circumstances a new person can be selected and installed by Manishigans as propounded in the books of commands i.e. "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan", which we have already discussed above. However, for the purpose of attracting principle of res-judicata, it is not always necessary that there must be a relationship of legal representative. Since plaintiff does not claim himself to be legal representative of Swami Krishna Bodhashram, it cannot be said that earlier litigation will have no consequence so far as the plaintiff in the present case is concerned. This assumption is incorrect. 548.	In our view, it is Explanation-VI of Section 11 CPC which would be attracted in the case in hand. Plaintiff apparently is claiming an occasion of his installation as Shankaracharya due to death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram on 10.09.1973. According to plaintiff, Swami Krishna Bodhashram was validly occupying seat of Shankaracharya since 25.06.1953 the same fell vacant after his death. He has also pleaded in the plaint that before death, Swami Krishna Bodhashram was ill and directed plaintiff to look after duties of Shankaracharya which he performed. Further Swami Krishna Bodhashram also recommended plaintiff's installation as Shankaracharya. This admission in the plaint negates plaintiff's contention that following Guru-Shishya Parampara, plaintiff was not nominated by Sri Krishna Bodhashram. It is not necessary that his nomination should have been by way of a 'Will' or by way of any other written document. In para 28 of plaint, plaintiff himself has pleaded that Swami Krishna Bodhashram appointed plaintiff to perform duties of seat of Shankaracharya. Plaintiff managed affairs of Peeth and at the time of death, when he breathed his last in Delhi on 10.09.1973, Swami Krishna Bodhashram, proposed name of plaintiff for the seat of Shankaracharya. Para 28 of plaint reads as under: 549.	This shows an unequivocal admission on the part of plaintiff that he was nominated by Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Therefore, plaintiff admittedly, in our view, claimed his installation as Shankaracharya pursuant to the nomination made by Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Explanation-VI to Section-11 C.P.C. provides a deeming fiction in respect of a person who is litigating in respect of a public or private right, common for themselves and others, and all persons interested in such right. Then it says that it should be "deemed to claim" under the persons so litigating. The right of plaintiff is founded on the condition that Swami Krishna Bodhashram was validly holding seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth since 25.06.1953 and on his death on 10.09.1973, seat fell vacant. Right which was being enjoyed by Swami Krishna Bodhashram after his death is being claimed by plaintiff. If Swami Krishna Bodhashram was not holding seat of Shankaracharya, question of acquiring any right by plaintiff after his death would not have arisen. 550.	Swami Krishna Bodhashram already litigated with regard to his own right with Swami Shantanand and lost. Therefore, same issue could not have been raised by plaintiff, so as to confer validity upon Swami Krishna Bodhashram with regard to his right to hold seat of Shankaracharya. 551.	At this stage, learned counsel for plaintiff submitted that his right is totally independent and has no connection with cause of action relating to Swami Krishna Bodhashram. 552.	We find ourselves unable to agree with this submission. It is a bundle of facts, as we have already discussed, giving a cause of action as a result of death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram and plaintiff's assumption that seat of Shankaracharya fell vacant after his death. 553.	There may be a little bit repetition but we find it necessary to discuss this aspect in detail to deal with the argument which has been vehemently advanced by learned Senior Counsel appearing for plaintiff. 554.	The factum regarding nomination of plaintiff by Swami Krishna Bodhashram, as pleaded in para-28 of plaint, we have already noted above and para-28 has also been quoted. 555.	Proceeding further, plaintiff states in para-29 and 30 that Shankaracharya of other Peeths, Pandits, learned men, Sanyasis etc. selected and appointed plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and installation ceremony was held on 07.12.1973 at Delhi. Para 29 and 30 are reproduced as under: 556.	He has also pleaded in para 40 and 42 that there cannot be more than one Jagadguru Shankaracharya in a Peeth, hence there cannot be any occasion for installation of two persons in one office of Jagadguru Shankaracharya. Para 40 and 42 reads as under: 557.	In the Replication also, plaintiff has pleaded that there cannot be two Shankaracharyas at one peeth. The relevant extract from para 6 is quoted below. 558.	Further in para-8 of Replication, plaintiff has pleaded that various gifts, donations, offerings are made by worshippers and followers to Shankaracharya of Peeth and all said offerings are to the Office and not in the individual capacity of person concerned. Therefore, such property vest in the Peeth and did not remain individual properties of person occupying the office. Para-8 of Replication to this effect reads as under: 559.	With regard to his installation, plaintiff has stated in para-12 of Replication that Swami Krishna Bodhashram was Chela of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 25.06.1953 whereupon performed duties of the said office. Plaintiff, disciple of Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed as Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973. Para-12 and 14 of Replication are reproduced as under: 560.	Besides, in various paragraphs of Plaint and Replication, plaintiff has specifically challenged factum of installation of Sri Ram Ji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati) and Swami Vishnu Deva Nand Saraswati on various grounds including that ''Will' was forged, they were not qualified etc. PW-6 in his examination in chief (by way of affidavit under Order XVIII Rule 4 CPC ) in para-19, 20 and 21, has deposed that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati did not execute any ''Will' and alleged ''Will' is forged and fictitious. Thereafter, he has further said that persons nominated in the said ''Will' are not qualified and could not have been installed or appointed as Shankaracharya. However, in para 26 and 27 of his examination, he has stated that in accordance with ''Will' dated 18.12.1952 Sri Ram Ji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati) declared his installation as Shankaracharya on 12.06.1953. Since, he was not eligible and did not fulfil requisite qualifications, learned Pandits, Sanyasis and members of B.D.M., VNS and K.V.P. and other Shankaracharyas did not accept installation of Swami Shantanand Saraswati and instead installed Swami Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 25.06.1953 at Gyanvapi, Varanasi. Swami Krishna Bodhashram then continued to discharge duties as Shankaracharya till death on 10.09.1973. He did not appoint any successor but only recommended and thereafter learned Pandits, Sanyasis of B.D.M., VNS and K.V.P. and other Shankaracharyas found plaintiff eligible and also taking the fact that Swami Krishna Bodhashram, when unwell, during that period plaintiff looked after functions of Shankaracharya and seat has fallen vacant after death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram, nominated installation of plaintiff on 12.09.1973. Still plaintiff said that he was not actually appointed by Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Para-26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 of affidavit of plaintiff read as under: ^^29-	^^;g fd Lokeh d`".kcks?kkJe fnukad us viuk dksbZ mRrjkf/kdkjh ukfer ugha fd;k Fkk] muds dgus ls rFkk pwafd Hkkjr/keZ egke.My] fon~orifj"kn rFkk rRdkyhu txn~xq:vksa o fo}kuksa dh jk; esa eq>dks vkpk;Z ds fy;s ;ksX; ik;k x;k vr% eSaus mudh chekjh ds le; ls esjk vfHk"ksd gksus rd 'kadjkpk;Z ds :i esa dk;Z fd;k FkkA pwWfd Lokeh d`".kcks/kkJe us viuk dksbZ mRrjkf/kdkjh ukfer ugha fd;k Fkk] blfy;s T;ksfr"ihB iqu% fjDr gks x;hA vr% ihB dh ijEijk o eBkEuk; egkuq'kklu esa fyf[kr fof/k ds vuqlkj Hkkjr/keZ egkea.My o vU; ihB ds 'kadjkpk;ksZ dh lgefr o rRdkyhu fo}r~ifj"kn dh lgefr ls rFkk fo}kuksa o if.Mrksa us eq>dks fnukad 12-9-1973 bZ- dks dk'kh esa T;ksfreZB&T;ksfr"ihB ds fy;s ;ksX; iq:"k ?kksf"kr fd;kA T;kfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa esjk vkSipkfjd vfHk"ksd fd;kA fnukad 7-12-1973 bZ- dks fnYyh esa fof/k 'kkL= ds vuqlkj rFkk ihB dh ijEijk ds vuqlkj fof/kor esjk 'kadjkpk;Z T;ksfreZB ds :i esa vfHk"ksd fd;k vkSj eq>dks 'kadjkpk;Z T;ksfreZB ekukA ---^^
 
"29.	That Swami Krishnabodhashram had not nominated any person as his successor. On his direction and since in the opinion of Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Vidvatparishad and then Jagadgurus as well as scholars, I had been found eligible for Acharya, I, therefore, functioned as Shankaracharya from the time of his illness till my installation. As Swami Krishnabodhashram had not nominated anyone as his successors, so the Jyotishpeeth was vacated again. Thus, in accordance with the tradition of the peeth and the mode prescribed in Mathamnaya Mahanushasnam, and with the consent of Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Shankaracharyas of the other Peethas, then Vidvatparishad, scholars and Pandits declared me eligible person for Jyotirmath-Jyotishpeeth in Kashi on 12.9.1973. I was formally anointed as Jyotishpeethadhishwar. As per jurisprudence and the tradition of peeth, they duly anointed me as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath in Delhi on 07.12.1973 and recognised me as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath. ..." (English Trnaslation by Court)
 
^^30-	;g fd eq>dks czg~eyhu Lokeh d`".kcks/kkJe th egjkt us 'kadjkpk;Z T;ksfr"ihB fu;qDr ugha fd;k Fkk vkSj u rks eSa muds ek/;e ls vius dks T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj gksus dk nkok djrk gWwA^^
 
"30.	That neither Late Swami Krishnabodhashram Ji Maharaj had appointed me as Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth, nor I claim to be Jyotishpeethadhishwar myself through him." (English Trnaslation by Court) 561.	He has deposed in para-50 that from 12.09.1973, he is continuously discharging duties of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and on 14/15.11.1989 there was no vacancy in the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, hence appellant could not have been installed in the said office. Para-50 reads as under: 562.	In the cross-examination also he has said: 563.	From the aforesaid pleadings and depositions of witnesses, it is evident that plaintiff's entire claim is founded on the fact that Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed in the office of Shankaracharya on 25.06.1953 and died on 10.09.1973. After his death seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth fell vacant giving a cause of action for appointment of a new Shankaracharya whereupon plaintiff was installed. 564.	Plaintiff, therefore, founded his claim in the seat left by Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Plaintiff claimed a right, whether called public or private, in respect of an office which is common to Swami Krishna Bodhashram also and unless Swami Krishna Bodhashram held the seat, question of his causing any vacancy could and would not have arisen. Therefore, cause of action in the entire matter is a chain of events wherein factum of installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram as Shankaracharya, his continuity in the seat and on his death, occurrence of vacancy, is a substantive aspect, in absence whereof, plaintiff would have no claim at all. 565.	A 'cause of action' is a bundle of facts giving rise to a dispute and cannot be read in isolation from one or the other facts, here and there. What a "cause of action" would mean here, we may consider in the light of authorities since it has not been defined as such. 566.	Generally speaking, as recognized in various authorities, a cause of action is a "bundle of facts which taken with the law applicable, gives a plaintiff a right to relief against the defendants." (See: Dhanajishaw Vs. Fforde (1887) ILR 11 Bom 649; Musa Vs. Manilal (1905) ILR 29 Bom 368; Raghoonath Vs. Gobindnarain (1895) ILR 22 Cal. 451) 567.	'A cause of action' means a situation or a state of facts that entitle a party to maintain action in a Court or a Tribunal; a group of operative facts giving rise to one or more basis for suing; a factual situation that entitles one person to obtain a remedy in Court from another person. It means every fact, which, if traversed, it would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove in order to support his right to a judgment of the Court. 568.	"Cause of action" denotes whole bundle of material facts based on which plaintiff's relief, prayed for, is based. It is not a piece of evidence of events, but a bundle of events. Neither it has any relation with the evidence set up by defendant nor depends upon character of relief prayed for. It generally consists of facts and situation which gives a party, a right to file a suit and obtain a remedy from another person, with the help of Court. It gives rise to enforcement of a right through Court of law. The "cause of action" thus consists of bundle of facts which give right to enforce legal injury for redress in a Court of law. 569.	The concept of cause of action is a "bundle of facts required to be proved to show the reason for which plaintiff was impelled to go for litigation in Civil Court for recovery of individual rights or redressal of individual wrong etc." In other words, a cause of action is a bundle of facts which are required to be proved for obtaining relief. Thus valid installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram was an integral part of cause of action in this case. 570.	The issue with regard to valid installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram was already determined and adjudicated by a competent Court of law, in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, vide judgment and decree dated 15.01.1970. Issue 5 in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 was in regard to installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram and read as under: 571.	The findings recorded by Sri B.P. Shukla, Civil Judge, Allahabad in the judgment dated 15.01.1970, with respect to Issue-5 are as under:- Moreover, there was three more other persons as nominee in the will and even if for a second Shanta Nand's claim is ignored and also the second nominee Grihasth ignored the qualification of nominee nos. 3 and 4 given in the will of Brahmanandji should have been considered by the elective body. What I mean to say is that initially the choice successor could be made from among the disciples of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati and if no disciple was found to be suitable then other alternative of letting in Sanyasis of occupant of the seat of Jyotir Math. According to the following shloka of Mahanushasan in the presence of a worthy disciple outsider should not have been allowed to be elected. The operation of the Shloka relied in para 28 of the written statement would come into existence only when none was found to be suitable out of nominated people or out of the disciples of Swami Brahmanand Shankar Digvijai Ex. A 106 page 614 Shloka 12 also give similar direction, Viz.
 
Uk tkrq eBeqfPNU|nf/kdkfj.;qifLFkrsA 
 
fo/ukukefi ckgqY;kns"k /kEeZ% lukru%AA 
 
	I have perused the evidence on behalf of the defendants and find that nothing is said as to why the claims of the other nominee were overlooked and why in preference to a disciple of Swami Brahmanand a non-disciple was sought to be installed. No doubt, the evidence of Sri Niranjan Deo Tirth Ji, Shankaracharya Puri, D.W. 1, Sri Jagadguru Shankaracharya, D.W. 2 Abhinav Sachchidanand Tirth D.W. 3 Sri Narottam Ashram, D.W. 7 Sri Ram Nath Mishra, D.W. 9, Pandit Ram Govind Shukla, goes to indicate that on 25.6.53 ceremony of installation of the defendant no. 1, Sri Krishna Bodhashram took place. I believe what they have said on this point but the above mentioned ceremony is wholly insufficient to clothe the defendant no. 1 with the legal title of Shankaracharya of Jyotir Mutt. The reason is that dejure Shankaracharya Swami Shantanand Saraswati had already been installed on 12.6.63 as Shankaracharya on the strength of the will of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. The office of Shankaracharya having already been filled up the ceremony dated 25.6.53 cannot be the foundation forth acquisition of the title of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath by defendant no. 1. The plaintiff is already in possession in the capacity of Shankaracharya and there is no room for the defendant no. 1 being characterised as Shankaracharya by adverse possession as alleged.
 
	According to the first resolution of the interim committee of the disciples of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati the will was produced before interim committee. Initially, it was decided to install the plaintiff as Shankaracharya. Later on Pandit Sabha decided that the plaintiff was not a fit person and Sri Krishnabodhashram defendant no. 1 should be installed. The said pandit sabha in my opinion could not sit in appeal over the judgment of Sri Brahmanand Saraswati who nominated his disciple plaintiff Sri Shantanand Sarawati, 108 Dandi Swami as successor nominee no. 1. It is patent that the Bharat Dham Maha Mandal which did Punaruddhar restoration of Jyotishpeet by installing Sri Brahmand Saraswati could have the residuary right of appointing successor provided of course the reigning Shankaracharya had not nominated any one. The fluctuating body of Pandit Sabha consisting of a few persons cannot be considered to be any legal authority to determine the question, upset the decision of the late Jagadguru. Muthamanay is silent on the point as to who is to select the successor. A perusal of the spirit of the judgment of section 92 C.P.C. case shows that if the line of disciple is extinct Maha Mandal has a right to nominate. It was impliable even from that the succession will be from Guru to Chela and Guru must have some right to nominate. The Guru having found the adhikari Uttaradhikari, it will present a chaos if fluctuating body of Pandits of various places in India choose to go on selecting persons of their choice in utter disregard to the wishes of the previous occupant. That is why the decision of section 92 C.P.C. case was required. That is in favour of the plaintiff. The Court under section 92 C.P.C. had a vast power and when it has not exercised the power of removing the present occupant, he has to continue office till actually removed. In my opinion, the general public could have the power to elect a man only when the line of disciple was extinct then they could appoint a high qualified person according to book of command shlokas mentioned in para 28 of the written statement. There is no evidence that the entire line of disciples of late Jagatguru is extinct. So a non-disciple like defendant no. 1 could not be appointed as Shankaracharya in preference to disciple. Even if for a second the will in favour of defendant No. 1 is held to be illegal, there is the will in favaour of Swami Sri Karpatriji & others. That will become operative. Thus, the Pandit Sabha having not considered the claim of the other disciples apart from Sri Karpatriji who declined the offer, it did not lie within the competence of the Pandit Sabha to change the line of Succession which has been form Guru to Chela since ages. In Ex. A 91 page 24, Dwarka Jagatguru Shankaracharya writes "According to Math tradition there four Maths have an unbroken tradition handed from one Acharya to another for last 2,000 years or more".
 
Thus, the claim of adverse possession of defendant no. 1, cannot at all be sustained." (emphasis added) 572. 	The above judgment attained finality after dismissal of appeal as abated. So far as Swami Krishna Bodhashram is concerned, the said issue attained finality in the light of judgment given by Civil Judge. The consequence is that in law, Swami Krishna Bodhashram was not holding seat of Shankaracharya at the time of death. Hence, question of causing any vacancy on his death also would not arise. In our view, this issue could not have been agitated again by plaintiff and it is barred by principle of res judicata as well as a result of finality attached with the judgment and decree dated 15.01.1970 passed by Civil Judge in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 after abatement of appeal filed by defendant appellant, Swami Krishna Bodhashram. 573.	Hence on 10.9.1973, i.e. on the date of Swami Krishna Bodhashram or when alleged nomination was made by B.D.M., VNS, K.V.P. and others with respect to plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati or when formal installation took place, throughout it is Swami Shantanand Saraswati who was continuously holding office/position/status of Shankaracharya and since there was no vacancy of Shankarcharya, question of installation of plaintiff did not arise at all, particularly, considering admission on the part of plaintiff himself that in one Peeth there cannot be two Shankaracharyas. 574. 	The principle of res judicata is applicable with respect to the issue as well as the suit, both. The issue whether Swami Shantanand Saraswati was validly installed as Shankaracharya and discharge functions of the said office in 1973 and whether Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed in the said office on 25.06.1953 and functioned in the said office till his death, attained finality between aforesaid parties in view of judgment and decree dated 15.01.1970 passed in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965. That being so, plaintiff, who is admittedly claiming his right of installation on account of alleged vacancy caused due to death of Swami Krishna Bodhashram, is bound to fail for the reason that his claim is common and dependent on Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Once Swami Krishna Bodhashram himself was not holding the said office, question of causing any vacancy giving any occasion to plaintiff to get installed on the said seat, does not arise. 575.	Now coming to the question of alleged removal of Swami Shanta Nand Saraswati and valid installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram, though we have already held that judgment in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 decided on 15.01.1970 attained finality after first appeal preferred by defendant-appellant, Swami Krishna Bodhashram, abated, and, even otherwise, operated as res judicata on the validity of installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram; still we proceed to satisfy ourselves whether Swami Brahmanand was not competent to nominate his successor through 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 and, if yes, after installation of Swami Shantanand on 12.06.1953 whether he was removed from the position of Shankaracharya so as to cause a vacancy in which Swami Krishna Bodhashram could have been installed as Shankaracharya on 25.06.1953. 576.	Declaration of trust deed dated 11.05.1941 while recognizing Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as duly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, dedicated entire property, documents whereof made part of trust-deed, to the aforesaid Shankaracharya and declared that he would be a 'Trustee' thereof and in future pupils of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, traditionally, as per his authorized succession, shall be called Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. It restrained transfer of property, made part of the aforesaid trust deed, as not transferable and further declared that in future if in teacher-pupil tradition, seat falls vacant, then only B.D.M., VNS shall have right to fill in the said vacancy. The relevant extract of trust-deed is reproduced as under: 577.	It is admitted position that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth after such installation and continued to function till he breathed last on 20.05.1953. Before his death, he executed a 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 in which, he gave, in alternative, four names to succeed him as Shankaracharya. The said names were in following order: 578.	Plaintiff challenged aforesaid 'Will' by filing an objection in Misc. Case No. 44 of 1953 filed by Swami Shantanand Saraswati for succession certificate. The objection of plaintiff was rejected and succession certificate was issued to Swami Shantanand Saraswati. Thereafter this 'Will' was challenged by Swami Krishna Bodhashram in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, wherein Issue-16 was with respect to validity of aforesaid 'Will". It was answered in favour of Swami Shantanand. Trial Court held the said 'Will' valid. 579.	Same issue was raised in Suit No. 3 of 1954 filed under Section 92 CPC by four plaintiffs, namely, Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati, Nagesh Upadhyay, Mahadev Shastri and Sudarshan Lal Bajpai, impleading Swami Shantanand Saraswati (Ramji Tripathi) as sole defendant. Issue-5 formulated therein was with regard to correctness of 'Will'. There also it was answered against plaintiffs ( in that case ), i.e., 'Will' was held validly executed. 580.	Even in the present case, Court below while adjudicating Issues- 1 and 1/2, declined to go into the question of validity of 'Will' on the ground that it was already upheld thrice and it would not be permissible to allow challenge to the said 'Will', by plaintiff, in the suit in question. Relevant extract of judgment in question reads as under: 581.	The above facts are writ large to show that under the deed of trust dated 11.05.1941, body of learned Pandits, B.D.M., VNS etc., while installing Swami Brahmanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya so as to revive extinguished Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth after almost 165 years, followed Teacher-Pupil custom/tradition (Guru-Shishya Parampara) for future succession of Shankaracharyas. It was clearly mentioned that pupil of reigning Shankaracharya, nominated by him, would succeed the seat of Shankaracharya and shall be known as such. It is only when no such nomination is available and seat is extinct, i.e., a situation as it was in 1941 when Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was installed, the same procedure by which Shankaracharya was installed in 1941, may be followed by B.D.M., VNS and other learned Pandits, Shankaracharyas etc. Since Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati) was first in the order of merit nominated by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati to succeed him as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, he was entitled to become Shankaracharya and was rightly installed on 12.06.1953. 582.	Further, whether Swami Shantanand Saraswati suffered any disqualification and for that reason was removed from the office of Shankaracharya and Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed by the body of learned Pandits, KVP etc., we have to find a positive act of alleged removal, first. Court below though in the judgment in question, has recognized authority of learned Pandits etc. for removal of a person who gets occupied to the seat of Shankaracharya though not qualified or lacks eligibility or has otherwise committed an act so as to disqualify him to continue as Shankaracharya, but thereafter has not recorded any finding, how and in what manner Swami Shantanand Saraswati was removed from the office. Court below has taken the factum that Swami Krishna Bodhashram, since was installed on 25.06.1953, this by necessary implication would have the effect of displacement/removal (nigrah) of Swami Shantanand Saraswati from the seat of Shankaracharya. 583.	 We have already discussed meaning of word 'Nigrah' used in "Mathamnaya" and "Mahanushasan" A person not eligible or otherwise disqualified could have been removed from the office of Shankaracharya. We agree that the word 'Nigrah' means 'removal' or 'termination'. This requires a positive act of declaring a person holding seat of Shankaracharya as unqualified or disqualified or ineligible and thereafter a positive act of his removal from such position so as to cause a vacancy in which another person could have been installed. Installation to the seat of Shankaracharya is not a licence which can be revoked at any time. Here removal has to precede a condition of disqualification. When a person was already holding the said status, there was no vacancy in which another person could have been brought in. Therefore, unless and until there is evidence to show that Swami Shantanand Saraswati was removed from the position or status of Shankaracharya, question of installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram could not have arisen. Even if any formal installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram had taken place, that would have no legal and valid consequence and would not confer status of Shankaracharya upon Swami Krishna Bodhashram. It has to be ignored in law. No document or otherwise evidence has been placed before us to show that any conscious decision was taken to declare Swami Shantanand Saraswati as lacking requisite qualification so as to disqualify him to remain as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and thereupon competent body, i.e., Manishigan removed him and thereafter in the resultant vacancy, installed Swami Krishna Bodhashram. 584.	Even before Trial Court, neither there was any such issue, nor evidence nor it has been adjudicated by giving reasons. 585.	Moreover, Swami Shantanand is/was not a party in present suit. Therefore also Trial Court had no occasion to look into the issue of alleged disqualification and removal of Swami Shantanand Saraswati. Secondly, in absence of any material, in our view, on pure conjectures and surmises, it could not have held Swami Shantanand Saraswati as lacking qualification to hold the status of Shankaracharya, and, that too, on the basis of a judgment in which suit was dismissed against Swami Shantanand Saraswati and another judgment in which his installation as Shankaracharya was maintained and installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram was declared invalid. The conjectures on the part of Trial Court in this regard is evident from following extract of judgment (at the pain of repetition reproduced again) : 586.	Trial Court has also taken formal order of abatement passed by First Appellate Court on 29.08.1982 rendering judgment dated 15.01.1970 not final on the ground that appeal is continuation of suit, forgetting basic principle of law that abatement of a proceeding is by operation of law. The mere fact that formal order was passed by Court after a long time will not result to a consequence that appeal was pending. After death of defendant-appellant and non substitution of legal representatives, appeal already abated after expiry of 150 days (90 days+60 days). Swami Krishna Bodhashram admittedly having died on 10.09.1973, first appeal against judgment dated 15.01.1970 in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965 abated on 10.02.1974. Moreover, abatement of appeal would relate back as if appeal was not filed rendering judgment of Trial Court final which would have the effect in law that Swami Shantanand was holding office of Shankaracharya validly and Swami Krishna Bodhashram had no right to the said status. Here also, Trial Court has given a very strange reasoning that in Original Suit No. 36 of 1965, installation of Swami Shantanand was found valid and installation of defendant, Swami Krishna Bodhashram, was found to have taken place though invalid for three reasons, namely, he was not pupil of Swami Brahmanand; he could not have been appointed in the custom of Guru-Shishya Parampara; and, Pandit Sabha could not have appointed any outsider, but since appeal was pending and no formal order of abatement was passed and in the meantime Swami Swaroopanand, plaintiff in the present case, was installed on 07.12.1973, therefore, he (Swami Swaroopanand-plaintiff) was validly installed. This approach, reasoning and finding is wholly absurd and perverse. This is patently illegal. 587.	We therefore, have no hesitation in reversing entire findings as aforesaid, namely, regarding alleged disqualification of Swami Shantanand, his removal and also about valid installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram. Impugned judgment on Issues-2, 3, 4, 1 and 2/1, in respect of aforesaid findings is hereby reversed.
 
	Answer (Sixth Point): 588.	The Tenth point for determination would be "whether plaintiff has claimed any independent right in the office of Shankaracharya or his claim is connected with the issue of installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram?	
 
	Answer (Tenth Point): 589.	The next two points for determination, i,e. points for determination no. 11th and 12 are: 590.	The Issue with regard to installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 7.12.1973 was Issue no.1 before Trial Court but with regard to question of installation of appellant as Shankaracharya, Trial Court has not framed any issue. Instead, it has considered directly whether his installation was illegal and against Rules, presupposing that ceremony of installation was not disputed but only validity was to be considered. Issue-1 has been considered by Trial Court alongwith Issue 2/1, whether installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya was in accordance with Rules or not. 591.	At this stage, first we will consider whether plaintiff and appellant respectively were able to prove their claim with regard to installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Trial Court examined this aspect with regard to installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya, in the judgment, at pages 282 to 320. It has recorded its conclusion that plaintiff was installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 7.12.1973 and has been discharging duties and functions since then. Court below has simply referred to various evidence, oral and documentary, adduced on behalf of plaintiff without discussing oral evidence with reference to cross-examination as to whether evidence was credible or not. We may reproduce relevant extract of findings with respect to issue No.1 as under : oknh dh vksj ls dqEHk esyk esa T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa muds jgu lgu o 'kksHkk ;k=k dks lkfcr djus ds fy;s lwph 927x@1 rk 927x@3 ls dkxt la[;k 927x@4 iqLrd Hkwfe vkcaVu dqaHk esyk gfj}kj mRrjk[k.M lsDVj 12] fo'ks"k dk;kZf/kdkjh dqaHk esyk }kjk lR;kfir] dkxt la[;k 927x@5 lwpuki= fnukad 31-07-2012 }kjk yksd lwpuk vf/kdkjh Jh cnjhukFk dsnkjukFk efUnj lfefr] dkxt la[;k 927x@6 lwph lnL;x.kksa dh Jh cnjhukFk dsnkjukFk efUnj lfefr lu~ 2009&10] dkxt la[;k 927x@7 izekf.kr izfr Hkwfe vkoaVu }kjk dk;kZy; esykf/kdkjh dqEHk esyk 2010 esyk fu;a=.k Hkou gfj}kj fnukad 08-02-10] dkxt la[;k 927x@8 izekf.kr izfr Hkwfe vkoaVu }kjk dk;kZy; esykf/kdkjh dqEHk esyk 2010 esyk fu;a=.k Hkou gfj}kj fnukad 08-02-10] dkxt la[;k 927x@9 izekf.kr izfr dk;kZy; vkns'k 08-03-2010 dk;kZy; esykf/kdkjh] dqEHk esyk gfj}kj] dkxt la[;k 927x@10 yxk;r 927x@15 izekf.kr izfr txrxq: 'kadjkpk;Z Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th egkjkt ds 'kksHkk;k=k eas rSukr iqfyl cy dh lwph nkf[ky fd;k x;k gSA 
 
	In order to prove his lifestyle and Shobhayatra (Procession) as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar during Kumbh Mela, the plaintiff vide list 927Ga/1 to 927Ga/3, has filed papers number 927Ga/4, booklet regarding land allotment, Kumbh Mela Haridwar, Uttarakahand Sector 12, certified by the Officer on Special Duty, Kumbh Mela, paper number 927Ga/5 the information letter dated 31.07.2012 by the Public Information Officer,Sri Badrinath Kedarnath Mandir Samiti, paper number 927Ga/6, list of the Members of Sri Badirnath Kedarnath Mandir Samiti of the year 2009-10, paper no.927 Ga/7, certified copies of allotment of land by the office of Meladhikari Kumbh Mela 2010, Mela Niyantran Bhawan, Haridwar dated 08.02.10, certified copy of the paper no. 927Ga/9, office order of the office of the Meladhikari, Kumbh Mela Haridwar, dated 08.03.2010, paper number 927Ga/10 to 927Ga/15 certified copy of list of the police force deployed during the Shobhayatra of the Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Mahraj. 
 
	oknh dh vksj ls vius dks T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj lkfcr djus ds fy;s] tykfHk"ksd] iV~VkfHk"ksd] prq"ihB lEesyu o vU; ihBk/kh'oj 'kadjkpk;ksZ ds lkFk ijLij lkeatL; o vfr fof'k"V O;fDr;ksa o fof'k"V lU;kfl;ksa }kjk ekU;rk dks lkfcr djus ds fy;s fofHkUu QksVksxzkQ ls lEcfU/kr jftLVj Mh nkf[ky fd;k x;k gSA --- QksVksxzkQ la[;k Mh&77 vfXu v[kkM+k ds lHkkifr }kjk oknh dk pj.k iwtu] nwljk QksVksxzkQ esa Mk0 fo'oukFk 'kkL+=h }kjk oknh dk vfHkuUnu] rhljh QksVksxzkQ esa twuk v[kkMs+ ds eU=h gfjfxjh ds }kjk oknh dk vfHkUkUnu] QksVksxzkQ la[;k Mh&80 NRrhlx<+ ds eq[;ea=h vthr tksxh }kjk oknh dk vfHkuUnu djrs gq;s ds QksVksxzkQ nkf[ky fd;s x;s gSaA 
 
	For the purpose of proving himself as Head of Jyotishpeeth as well as performance of Jalabhishek (consecration), Pattabhishek (coronation), Chatushpeeth Sammellan (conference of four Peethas) and cohesion with other Peethadheeshwar Shankarcharyas and also to prove the recognition by eminent dignitaries and Sanyasis, register D, containing various photographs has been filed. ....Photograph No. D-77 exhibits Charan Pujan (feet worshiping) of the plaintiff by the President of Agni Akhada, in second photograph, felicitation of the plaintiff by Dr. Vishwanath Shashtri, in the third photograph the felicitation of the plaintiff is being done by the Secretary (Mantri) of Joona Akhada Harigiri, in photograph No. D-80 felicitation of the plaintiff by the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Ajit Jogi.
 
	bl izdkj oknh ds xokgksa }kjk Hkh oknh ds vf/k"Bkiu dks vius l'kiFk lk{; }kjk lkfcr fd;k x;k gSA oknh }kjk vf/k"Bkiu ds ekSds ij Hkkjr /keZ egke.My] dk'kh fo}r ifj"kn] rhuksa ihBksa ds 'kadjkpk;Z o muds izfrfuf/k] fo}kuksa] xzgLFkksa] lU;kfl;ksa dh mifLFkfr dks lkfcr fd;k gSA oknh }kjk Hkkjr /keZ egke.My] dk'kh fo}r ifj"kn] rhuksa ihBksa ds 'kadjkpk;Z o muds izfrfuf/k] fo}kuksa] xzgLFkksa] lU;kfl;ksa fof'k"V rFkk vfrfof'k"V O;fDr;ksa ds leFkZu rFkk ekU;rk dks Hkh lkfcr fd;k x;k gSA blds vfrfjDr oknh }kjk vius T;ksfr"ihB ij 'kadjkpk;Z ds in ij vf/k"Bkiu ds ckn ihB ds fdz;k dykiksa o ihB ds dk;ksZ ds lEiknu dks QksVksxzkQ] i=ksa] lekpkj i=] if=dk o ekSf[kd lk{; ds ek/;e ls lkfcr fd;k x;k gSA vU; txgksa ds QksVksxzkQ] lekpkj i=] i= vkfn Hkh ;g lkfcr djrs gS fd oknh T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa dk;Z dj jgs gSaA 
 
	Thus, installation of plaintiff has been proved by his witnesses by their evidence on oath. Presence of Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Kashi Vidwat Parishad, Shankaracharyas of all the three Peethas and their representatives, scholars, Grihasthas and Sanyasis on the occasion of installation, has been proved by plaintiff. Approval and recognition accorded by Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Kashi Vidwat Parishad, Shankaracharyas of all the three Peethas and its representatives, scholars, Grihasthas, Sanyasis, eminent and high dignitaries, have been proved by the plaintiff. Besides, activities and discharge of affairs of Peetha after his installation in the office of Shankaracharya of the Jyotishpeeth, have been proved by the plaintiff through photographs, letters, newspapers, magazines and oral evidence. Photographs of other places, newspapers, letters etc also prove that the plaintiff is functioning as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar.
 
	lekt ds lHkh oxksZ] fo}kuksa] dk;Zikfydk rFkk fo/kkf;dk ds 'kh"kZ inksa ls tqMs+ yksxksa rFkk izfl) jktusrkvksa dh muds lkFk ekStwnxh Hkh mUgsa T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa ekU;rk ns jgh gSA 
 
	The presence of the people from all class of the society, intellectuals, executives and people associated with the high offices of the Legislature; Executive and eminent statesmen with him, is also according recognition as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar.
 
	dqEHk esyk esa Hkh muds T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa mifLFkfr] prq"ihB lEesyuksa esa Hkh mudh mifLFkfr Hkh ;g lkfcr djus ds fy;s Ik;kZIr gS fd vU; ihBksa ds 'kadjkpk;ksZ }kjk Hkh mUgsa gh 'kadjkpk;Z ds :i esa ekU;rk nh x;h gSA 
 
	His presence as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar in Kumbh Mela, in conferences of Chatushpeeth is sufficient to prove that Shankaracharyas of other Peethas have also recognized him as Shankaracharya.
 
	oknh }kjk vius vf/k"Bkiu dks ekSf[kd lk{;] nLrkosth lk{;] QksVksxzkQ] i= if=dk vkfn ls lkfcr fd;k x;k gSA Lokeh 'kkUrkuUn ljLorh o Lokeh fo".kqnsok uUn ljLorh rFkk Lokeh oklqnsokuUn ljLorh }kjk u rks oknh ds vf/k"Bkiu dks jksdus gsrq dksbZ dk;Zokgh dh u gh muds T;ksfr"ihB 'kadjkpk;Z ds :i esa dk;Z djus ls mUgsa jksdk x;kA tc fd oknh dh vksj ls izLrqr okn 513@89 esa izfroknh Lokeh oklqnsokuUn ljLorh dks vUrfje fu"ks/kkKk }kjk vius dks 'kadjkpk;Z mn~?kksf"kr djus rFkk rn~uqlkj dk;Z djus ls jksdk x;k gSA 
 
 	The plaintiff has proved his installation through oral and documentary evidence, photographs, letters, magazines etc. Swami Shantanand Saraswati, Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati and Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati neither took any action to stop his installation nor he was stopped from functioning as Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth while the defendant Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, by means of interim injunction issued in Suit No. 513/89 filed by the plaintiff, has been restrained from declaring himself as Shankaracharya and functioning accordingly. 
 
	vr% i=koyh ij ekStwn ekSf[kd o nLrkosth lk{; ds vk/kkj ij U;k;ky; bl fu"d"kZ ij igqWph gS fd oknh dks 07-12-1973 dks T;ksfr"ihB ds txn~xq: 'kadjkpk;Z ds :i esa LFkkfir fd;k x;k Fkk rFkk og rc ls T;ksfr"ihB ds 'kadjkpk;Z ds dk;Z ,oa drZO;ksa dk fuoZgu dj jgs gSaaA**
 
	"Hence on the basis of oral and documentary evidence available on record, the Court has reached the conclusion that plaintiff was installed as Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth on 07.12.1973 and since then he is discharging his functions and duties as Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth." (English Translation by Court) 592.	Learned counsel for appellant has contended that documents relied by Court below having not been proved, should not have been taken to prove installation of plaintiff as Shakracharya and even oral evidence was contradictory, therefore, findings are incorrect. 593.	So far as documentary evidence is concerned, same cannot be said "not proved" and "inadmissible" at the stage of appeal as we have already decided this issue. Therefore, arguments otherwise advanced on behalf of appellant is rejected. 594.	However, so far as oral evidence is concerned, we may refer to relevant evidence adduced on behalf of plaintiff in support of his plea of installation on 7/12/1973 as Shakracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and would also examine whether there is anything to discredit such evidence or not. 595.	Sri Sundar Bajpai PW1 claims to be follower of principle of monism, propounded by Adi Guru Shankryacharya and is associated with Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth since long. He is an Ayurvedic medical practitioner and is not expected to have expertise in historicity of Adi Guru Shakracharya or his principles or otherwise religious matters. Still in his examination-in-chief he has given details of installation of Maths by Adi Guru Shankracharya, establishment of four Peethas and thereafter backdrop of installation of Shankrachayas in Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth since installation of Brahmanand Saraswati and thereafter. His examination in chief is on record in volume-6, pages 2784-2790 of plaintiff-respondent's paper book. Relevant extracts thereof reads as under: 596.	However in his cross-examination he has said that he does not remember the year in which Swami Swaroopanand was installed. On the question relating to Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan, which he claims to have read, he could not give any specific reply and at times, said he will have to look into that document. He has also admitted his ignorance of procedure of selection of a person for installing as Shankracharya. Some relevant extracts from his cross-examination are reproduced as under. 
 
^^eSaus eBkeuk; egkuq'kklu i<+k gSA --- eq>s pkjks ihBksa ds 'kadjkpk;ksZa ds tks fu;e egkeuk; egkuq'kklu fy[ks x;s gSa os ;kn gSa] --- orZeku 'kkjnkihB ds 'kadjkpk;Z Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th gSaA^^	 ¼isij ua0 455d@2] ist&56½
 
"I have read 'Mathamanay Mahanushasan'. I can recall the rules for Shankaracharyas of all four Peethas as provided in 'Mathamanay Mahanushasan'. Present Shankaracharya of Sharadapeeth is Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Ji." (Paper No. 4558A/2, Page-56)(English Translation by Court)
 
^^eSa flQZ d`".kcks/kkJe th dk gh f'k"; gwWaA --- eq>s ;kn ugha fd eSaus fdl ls nh{kk yhA --- eq>s ;kn ugha gS fd Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th dk iV~VkfHk"ksd dgkWa gqvk Fkk] ij eSa ekStwn FkkA^^ ¼isij ua0 455d@3]ist&57½
 
"I am a disciple only of Krishnabodhashram... I cannot remember from whom I took deeksha (initiation). I cannot remember where pattabhishek (investiture with sash) of Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Ji was performed, but I was present there." (English Translation by Court)
 
^^eq>s ;kn ugha fd eSa tc oknh Lokeh Lo:ikuUn th dk iV~VkfHk"ksd gqvk Fkk mlesa lfEefyr gqvk Fkk ;k ughaA --- eSa 'kkUrkuUn th dks ;ksX;rk ,oa v;ksX;rk ds lEcU/k esa dqN ugha tkurkA ¼isij ua0 455d@4]ist&58½
 
"I cannot recall whether or not I had participated at the pattabhishek (investiture with sash) of Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati, when it was performed.... I know nothing about Shantanand Ji's qualification or disqualification." (Paper no. 455A/4, Page-58)(English Translation by Court)
 
^^eq>dks ;g fcYdqy ;kn ugha gS fd Lokeh Lo:ikuUn th dk iV~VkfHk"ksd fdl lu~ esa gqvk FkkA --- prq"ihB lEesyu fdl lu~ esa gqvk FkkA ;kn ugha gSA fp= eSaus ns fn;k gS tks nkf[ky fd;k x;k gksxkA --- prq"ihB lEesyu ds lEcU/k esa eBkeuk; egkuq'kklu esa dksbZ fo/kku gS ;k ugha ns[kdj crk;saxsA** ¼isij ua0 455d@5]ist&59½
 
"I cannot remember at all in which year installation of Swami Swaroopanand Ji was performed ... and in which year conference of four Peethas had taken place. I cannot recall. I have given photograph which might have been submitted. As to whether there is any provision in Mathamanay Mahanushasan with respect to Chatushpeeth Sammelan, I will tell only after going through it." (English Translation by Court)
 
^^eq>s ekywe ugha fd Lokeh 'kkUrkuUn ljLorh dks fdlh in ls P;qr fd;k x;k Fkk fd ughaA --- eq>s ;kn ugha fd fo}r ifj"kn uke dh laLFkk Fkh ;k ughaA Hkkjr /keZ egke.My dk uke eSaus lquk gSA --- Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th Lokeh d`".kcks/kkJe th ds f'k"; ugha FksA Lokeh d`".kcks/kkJe th ds uke ds i'pkr vkJe fy[kk gqvk gSA blfy, ljLorh gksus dk iz'u gh ugha gSA --- eq>s irk ugha fd pkjks eB ekS:lh eB dgykrs gSa ;k ughaA xq:&f'k"; ijEijk ugha gS ;g iz'u fujFkZd gS D;ksafd ;fn ,d xq: ds pkj f'k"; gS rks pkjks 'kadjkpk;Z ugha gksrs gSaA in p;u dSls gksrk gS ekywe ughaA --- eq>s ugha ekywe fd Lokeh czg~ekuUn ljLorh dksbZ olh;r fy[kk FkkA eq>ss ;g ugha ekywe fd Lokeh czg~ekuUn ljLorh th ds czg~eyhu gksus ds i'pkr vUrfje lfefr xfBr dh x;h Fkh vkSj ml vUrfje lfefr ds v/;{k Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th FksA fnukad 4-8-07^^"¼isij ua0 455d@6] ist&60&62½
 
"I don't know whether or not Swami Shantanand Sarswati had been removed from any office. ... I do not remember whether there existed any body titled 'Vidwat Parishad'. I have heard the name of 'Bharat Dharma Mahamandal'. ... Swami Swaroopnand Sarswati was not a disciple of Swami Krishnabodhashram. At the end of the name of Swami Krishnabodharsham, the word 'Ashram' is written. Hence, there is no question of his being a 'Sarswati'. .... I don't know whether all four peethas are known as 'Maurusi Math' or not. The question that there does not exist tradition of Guru-Shishya (Teacher-disciple relationship), is meaningless, because if there are four disciples of a Guru (master/Teacher), all the four cannot be appointed 'Shankaracharya'... I don't know how selection for the office of Shankaracharya is made... I don't know whether Swami Brahmanand Sarswati had executed any Will (vasiyat) or not. I don't know whether any interim committee was constituted after the heavenly abode of Swami Brahmanand Sarswati and the President thereof was Swami Swaroopnand Sarswati Ji."(Paper No. 455A/6, Page - 60-62) (English Translation by Court)(English Translation by Court) 597.	Deposition of PW-1 shows a self contradiction and apparent falsity on the part of witness. It also shows that contents of affidavit filed by way of examination-in-chief are not based on information or knowledge of PW-1 but have been written by the person who drafted affidavit. That is why in cross-examination, witness showed total ignorance or made contradictory statements in respect of certain facts which he otherwise authoritatively stated in his examinatin-in-chief by way of affidavit. On the one hand, he stated that Swami Shantanand Saraswati had no knowledge of Sanskrit and ineligible for installation as Shankaracharya but in cross-examination admitted that he has no knowledge about eligibility of Swami Shantanand Saraswati. Similarly in respect of installation of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya, he specifically said that he was formaly installed at Kashi on 12.09.1973 and thereafter held a large function of Abhishek on 07.12.1973 at Delhi but in cross-examination he said that he is not aware, where Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati was installed though he was present. Then he said further that he does not remember whether he was present at the time of installation of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati or not. He also said that he does not remember when or in which year Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati was installed. Then he also said that he does not know as to how a person is selected and installed as Shankaracharya. These contradictory statements of PW-1 render this witness totally unreliable, uncreditworthy and untrustworthy, hence we find no evidentiary value of deposition of PW-1 either in support of case of plaintiff or otherwise. We may also observe at this stage that statement made by PW-1 with regard to alleged disqualification and removal from position of Shankaracharya, of Swami Shantanand could not have been admitted in evidence for the reason that Swami Shantanand was not a party in the suit and, therefore, no pleading and evidence which invite finding against the position of Swami Shantanand could have been admit ted in his absence. Hence this evidence was inadmissible in absence of Swami Shantanand as party in suit. 598.	PW-2 Challa Lakshman Shastri, though originally belonged to village Indupalli of Amlapuram Taluq, district Godavari, Andhra Pradesh but his predecessors shifted Varanasi in 1902, and since then are residing thereat and working as Teerth Purohit. He claimed that he was accepted as Rajguru by King of Vijaya Nagaram, Andhra Pradesh and still is enjoying the said status. His examination-in-chief is contained in Volume 6 page 2792-2794 Plaintiff Paper Book. He claims to be a witness of installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 7.12.1973 and said as under: 599.	In cross-examination (PW 2's) (volume 1 page 68-75 of plaintiff-respondent's paper book), we find nothing which may discredit his evidence. On the contrary, he has reiterated his statement about installation of plaintiff as Shankracharya. Relevant extract of his cross examination reads as under: 600.	Pw-4 Anand Bahadur Singh claims that he is an Ex-Zamindar and from family of Raja Todarmal, friend of Goswami Tulsidas. His educational qualification is Acharaya and honorary Ph.D. He is Founder of Tulsi Library and Kashi Patrakar. He is also a member of Executive Body of Akhil Bhartiya Dharma Sangh. In substance, he is a Journalist and Follower of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati. When he (Brahmanand Saraswati), came to Varanasi in 1945, PW-4 became his pupil. He claimed to be a member of KVP and was present on 12.9.1973 when meeting of KVP took place and plaintiff was proposed and nominated for installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. In this regard, relevant extract of his statement contained in Volume-6 page 2802-2805 of Plaintiff's Paper Book read as under. 
 
^^--- d`".kcks/kkJe th us vius fdlh mRrjkf/kdkjh dks ukfer ugha fd;k Fkk blfy, fo}ku if.Mr] laU;klhx.k] x`gLFk] lukru/kehZ fgUnw turk] fo}Rifj"kn o Hkkjr /keZ egke.My us Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th egkjkt dks T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds fy, euksuhr fd;kA muds euksu;u esa Lokeh gfjgjkuUn ljLorh] Lokeh egs'kkuUn ljLorh vkfn fo}ku euh"kh ekStwn FksA eSa Hkh ekStwn FkkA --- Hkkjr /keZ egke.My o dk'kh fo}Rifj"kn lukru fgUnw /kfeZ;ksa dh laLFkk gSA mDr nksuksa laLFkk,Wa oknh dks gh T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ekurs gSaA --- dk'kh fo}Rifj"kn --- dk eSa Hkh lnL; gwWaA --- dk'kh fo}Rifj"kn dh fnukad 12-9-1973 dks cSBd gqbZ FkhA ml cSBd esa eSa Hkh mifLFkr FkkA bl cSBd esa fo}Rifj"kn ds mifLFkr lnL;ksa us oknh Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh dks T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa euksu;u dk leFkZu djus dk izLrko ikfjr fd;k FkkA** ¼isij ua0&427 d] ist&2802&2803½
 
"...Krishnabodhasram has not nominated any person as his successor, therefore learned Pandits, Sanysis, Grihasthas, Hindu people believing in Sanatan religion, Vidwatparishad and Bharat Dharm Mahamandal nominated Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Ji Maharaj as Jyotishpeethadhiswar. At the time of his nomination, Swami Hariharanand Sarswati, Swami Maheshnand Sarswati and other learned scholars were present there. I was also present..... Bharat Dharm Mahamandal and Kashi Vidwatparishad are institutions of believers of Sanatan Hindu religion. The aforesaid two institutions consider the plaintiff only as Jotishapeethadhiswar.. Kashi Vidwat-parishad .... I am also a member of that......... Meeting of Kashi Vidwatparishad was held on 12.9.1973. I was also present in that meeting. In that meeting, members of Vidwatyaparishad present there, had resolved for supporting nomination of the plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati as Jhotishapeethadhiswar. (Paper no.-427ka, page-2802-2803) (English Translation by Court)
 
^^mDr cSBd esa mifLFkr lnL;x.k v}Sr er ds vuq;k;h] cqf)eku] 'kS{kf.kd {ks= esa vius fo"k; ds fo}ku FksA --- Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh th egkjkt dk T;ksfr"ihBk/kh'oj ds :i esa vfHkuUnu lEiw.kkZuUn laLd`r fo'ofo|ky; ds v/;kid] vf/kdkjh] Nk= o deZpkfj;ksa us fd;k FkkA --- eSa Hkh i=dkj ds :i esa gkftj FkkA**¼isij ua0&427 d] ist&2804½
 
"The members present in the aforesaid meeting were followers of Adwait Philosophy, intellectual and scholars of their subject in education field. Felicitation of Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Ji as Jotishapeethdhiswar was performed by Teachers, Officers, Students and Employees of Sampuranand Sanskrit University. I was also present there as Journalist." (Paper no.427ka, page-2804) (English Translation by Court) 601. 	In his cross-examination (Volume-1 page 86-92 of Plaintiff Paper Book), PW 4 has said that he was present at the time of installation of Krishnabodhashram but not aware whether he got possession or not. He further admits that he had not signed documents which are referred to in his affidavit. Relevant extract of his cross-examination is as under: 602.	 However, with regard to installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973, we find no statement in deposition of PW-4 hence his deposition is irrelevant on this aspect. He only said about nomination on 12.09.1973 at Kashi. 603.	PW-5 Harihar Prasad Pandey is a teacher in Teek Mani Sanskrit College, Shakarkand Gali, Varanasi. He claims to be a member of KVP. He was also associated with Swami Brahmanand Saraswati being his pupil and with Jyotishmath/Jyotishpeeth since then. He stated that on 25.06.1953 Swami Krishna Bodhashram was installed as Shankracharya and there after on 12.09.1973, plaintiff was proposed and nominated by KVP and thereafter installed as Shankaracharya. Relevant extracts from his examination-in-chief (volume-6,page 2807-2810)read as under: 604.	In cross examination (volume-1 page 93-105 of plaintiff respondent's paper book.), PW 5 has admited that affidavit was got prepared by shri Rajendra Mishra and it was read to him by Notary whereafter, he signed the same. He also admits that plaintiff is also a member of KVP but in this regard his statement is contradictory at two places. At one place he has said: 605.	At another place he stated: 606.	However with regard to nomination of plaintiff for installation as Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973 there is nothing in his statement, hence it is also irrelevant on this aspect. 607.	PW 6 Swami Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati is plaintiff himself. In his examination-in-chief he said that Swami Krishna Bodhashram passed away on 10-09-1973, whereafter B.D.M. VNS, KVP and other Shankaracharyas, etc, found him suitable for installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and he was so declared. Formal installation took place on 12-09-1973 at Kashi and actual installation with observance of all formalities, religious traditions and customs was held at Delhi on 07-12-1973. Relevant extracts of his examination-in-chief (Vol. 6 Page 2812-2829 of plantiff-respondat's paper book) read as under: 608.	There is long cross examination of plaintiff but we do not find anything therein to discredit his deposition with regard to holding of ceremonies for installation on 7.12.1973 at Delhi. He has also said that he is not claiming possession through Swami Krishnabodhashram for the reason that Swami Krishna Bodhashram did not make any nomination of his successor. Therefore, plaintiff was selected and nominated by bodies of renowned Pandits, other Shankaracharyas etc., though he admits that occasion for his installation arose after death of Swami Krishnabodhashram, who according to plaintiff was holding position of Shankaracharya till his death on 10.09.1973. With regard to Swami Krishna Bodhashram, in his cross examination (Volume 1, page 106-138 of plaintiff-respondent's paper book) plaintiff has said: 609.	PW-8, Sri Deep Narayan Sharma, was a co-editor of research magazine Sarswati Shusma, published by Sampurnanand Sanskrit University. He was Sahityacharya, MA (Sanskrit), Ph.D. and Yogacharya. With regard to installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya he said: 610.	His statement is for nomination of plaintiff at Kashi on 12.09.1973 but not relevant about installation on 07.12.1973. 611.	PW-9, Kailash Nath Dwivedi is a Grahastha Pupil of Swami Bramhanand. He came in his contact in 1948 and got Diksha in 1950. About factum of Sanyas taken by plaintiff and his installation on 07.12.1973 as Shankaracharya, he said: 612.	In cross-examination he reiterated about installation of plaintiff on 07.12.1973 and said: 613.	PW-11, Ashwin Bhai Purohit is a resident of Dwarka (Gujarat) and General Secretary of Sri Khsetra Dwarka Guggali Brahmin 505 Management Committee. Supporting plaintiff on his installation as Shankaracharya he said: 614.	In cross-examination, however, he said that plaintiff visited Dwarka as Shankaracharya where he was felicitated and honoured but who nominated him and whether he was actually installed in Delhi is not known to him. His statement in cross-examination says: 615.	This witness did not prove the factum of installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973 but supports that in the capacity of Shankaracharya, plaintiff when visited Dwarka, was felicitated and honoured with his staus as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. 616.	PW-12, T.N. Yagyanarayan, proved installation of plaintiff on 07.12.1973 and in his examinatin-in-chief said: 617.	In cross-examination, his statement in examinatin-in-chief could not be discredited and on the contrary he reiterated stating as under: 618.	PW-13, Sri Vasant Gadgil, is a Journalist and Editor of Sharda Sanskrti Patrika and engaged in propagation of Sanskrit Language. He did not make any statement with regard to installation on 07.12.1973 but stated about his participation in Chatushpeeth conference as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. 619.	PW-14, Jonny Pellegreeni, an Italian, undergoing Vedic study also did not say anything about installation but stated about his meeting with plaintiff treating him as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. 620.	Similarly, PW-15, Radheyshyam Goswami also did not make any statement about installation but said that he was felicitated/ honoured when visited Jabalpur in the capacity of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. 621.	To the same effect is the statement of PW-16, Somnath Tiwari, who also said that plaintiff was felicitated/ honoured as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth in Pragwal Sabha on 23.01.1974. 622.	PWs-18 and 19, Dilawar Khan and Gauri Shankar Tiwari also stated about felicitation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth in Madhy Pradesh. 623.	PW-20, C.V. Giridhar Shastri, a Teacher from Shringeri, District Chik Mangloor, Karnataka, also did not say anything about installation but stated that plaintiff participated as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth in the meeting of Shankaracharyas of four Peeths. 624.	PW-21, Balram Pandey made statement about felicitation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 29.09.1975 at Varanasi. 625.	PW-22, Bramhachari Subudhanand is Personal Secretary of plaintiff and made statement with regard to installation as under: 626.	He has not deposed that he was present when installation was held on 07.12.1973. Rest statement is clearly hearse. 
 
^^eSa jkeefUnj esa gq, vfHk"ksd ds oDr eSa mifLFkr ugha FkkA --- vfHk"ksd Lokeh Lo:ikuUn th dk vfHk"ksd Lokeh egs'ojkuUn] dk'kh ds oSfnd fo}kuksa us o djik=h th us fd;k FkkA tks yksxksa us vfHk"ksd fd;k Fkk mlesa ls dksbZ T;ksfr"kihB ds ihBk/kh'oj ugha FksA --- oknh tc 'kadjkpk;Z gq, rc 1973 esa mUgksaus eq>s viuk lfpo fu;qDr fd;kA** ¼isij ua0&499d] ist&261½
 
"I was not present when the installation was performed at Ram Mandir... The installation of Swami Swaroopanand Ji was performed by Swami Maheshwaranand, Vedic scholars of Kashi and Karpatri Ji. Out of the persons who performed installation of Peethadheeshwar of Jyotishpeetha, none was Peethadheeshwar of Jyotishpeeth. ...When the plaintiff became Shankaracharya, he appointed me as his secretary in the year 1973." (Paper No. 499Ka, Page 262) 627.	PW-23, Nijanand Brahmchari, stated that he was present at the time of installation on 07.12.1973 at Delhi and said: 628.	In cross-examination also we find nothing to discredit above statement. In fact he has fortified his deposition as under: 629. PW-24, Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Brahmarishi Ram Krishnanand, did not say anything about the factum of installation of plaintiff but stated that he was being recognized by said Agni Akhada as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. Though in cross-examination he said that plaintiff was installed in 1973 but not being a witness to installation as such, the deposition of PW-24 on this issue is of no assistance to plaintiff. 630.	PW-25, Kaivalya Nand Brahmachari, a Preecher and resident of Raj Anandpur, District Puschim Singhbumi (Jharkhand), said that he was present at the time of nomination of plaintiff for Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and also at the time of installation. His deposition reads as under: 631.	He has also proved various photographs taken at the time of installation on 07.12.1973 and thereafter on various occasions when plaintiff visited different places, and was treated and recognized as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. In cross-examination he proved factum of his presence on 12.09.1973 and also having signed register of KVP. He said: 632.	PW-26, Acharya Jitendra has deposed about participation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth in Rashtirya Ganga Mukti Sammelan on Magh Krishna Chaturdashi 2063 (2006) but he is not a witness to the factum of installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya. 633.	PW-27, Brahmchari Turiyanand, is also a witness about felicitation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth when he visited Jalaun on 01.11.1975. 634.	PW-32, Nand Kishore Nautiyal, is a witness to the functioning of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and not a witness to his installation. 635.	PW-34, Pandit Raj Shri Rajnarayan Shastri, at the time of deposition was General Secretary of KVP and has proved certain documents of KVP and not himself is a witness to installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya. 636.	PW-35, Rajendra Prasad Dwivedi, is in the occupation of Priesthood and in the company of plaintiff since 1964. He stated that he was present at the time of installation on 07.12.1973 and said: 637.	In his cross-examination also we find nothing to discredit his statement. 638.	PW-39, Swami Harinayananand Ji, Founder-General Secretary of Bharat Sadhu Samaj, also deposed about functioning of plaintiff as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth and not a witness to the factum of installation. 639.	Similar is the statement of PW-40, Mahant Prakash Puri Guru Kapil Maha Muni Ji and PW-41, Shankardev Chaitanya Brahmachari. Therefore, these statements also have no relevance so far as factum of installation of plaintiff is concerned. 640.	Therefore, statement of PWs 1, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 32, 34, 39, 40 and 41 are not at all creditworthy or relevant on the factum of installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973. 641.	With regard to functioning of plaintiff as Shankaracharya, we find some support from appellant's witnesses also as is evident from statements of DWs-1 and 37.
 
	DW-1-Swami Vimaldevashram
 
eSa Lokeh Lo:ikuUn th dks ns[kk gwWaA pkjksa ihBksa ds 'kadjkpk;ksZa ds lEesyu esa Lokeh Lo:ikuUn ljLorh Hkkx fy;k djrs gSA" 642.	The deposition of PWs-2, 6, 9, 23, 25, 35 and DWs-1 and 37 and above discussion show that a ceremony of installation of plaintiff to place him in the seat of Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973 was held at Delhi and therefore tenth point for determination is answered in favour of plaintiff. 643.	However, as we have held that seat was already occupied by Swami Shantanand in 1973 and alleged installation of Swami Krishna Bodhashram on 25.06.1953 was invalid and nullity hence there was no resultant vacancy caused on 10.09.1973 when Swami Krishna Bodhashram died. Therefore the alleged installation of plaintiff as Shankaracharya is of no consequence. It is wholly invalid and a nullity in the eyes of law. We answer point no. XI against plaintiff and in favour of appellant. 644.	In view of above, Questions No.-11 and 12 are answered by holding that there is evidence on record to show that ceremony was held for installation of plaintiff in the seat of Shankaracharya on 07.12.1973, but his installation is invalid. The finding of Trial Court taking an otherwise view, therefore, to that extent is reversed accordingly. 645.	With regard to the installation of appellant in the seat of Shankaracharya and holding of ceremony on 14/15.11.1989 no issue has been framed before Court below, hence it does appear that with regard to such ceremony, there is no dispute but what has been argued is that installation of appellant on 14/15.11.1989 in the seat of Shankaracharya was invalid. Hence, now we have to consider this aspect but before it an incidental issue has been raised that suit, as instituted by plaintiff, rendered infructuous after installation of appellant on 14/15.11.1989 and same we propose to consider at this stage. 646.	Point for determination-13, therefore, would be "whether suit in question filed by plaintiff rendered infructuous after installation of appellant in the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 14/15.11.1989?" 647.	Sri Goel, learned counsel for appellant at the outset has argued that suit could not have continued after installation of appellant on 14/15.11.1989. It rendered infructuous and, therefore, all subsequent proceedings are illegal. He submitted that amendment sought to be made by application filed on 1.9.2006, having been rejected, would go to show that very relief for which suit for injunction was filed, had rendered infructous on 14/15.11.1989, after installation of defendant-appellant as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, hence, impugned judgment having failed to consider this aspect in accordance with law is clearly erroneous and is liable to be set aside on this ground alone. He urged that this ground goes to the very root of the matter and renders entire subsequent proceedings inoperative, illegal and of no consequence in law. 648.	Admittedly, when suit in question was filed, plaintiff initially, vide plaint dated 09.11.1989, sought following reliefs : 649.	Record shows that it was registered on 10.11.1989. Appellant claimed that he was actually installed as Jagat Guru Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth on 14/15.11. 1989 at Brahmaniwas, Alopi Bagh, Allahabad i.e. when the suit became pending. 650.	Plaintiff filed amendment application on 1.9.2006 and besides others, he intended to add following relief: 651.	This amendment was rejected by order dated 22.12.2006 though some part of amendment of plaint was allowed but that is not material. We are concerned with part of relief which was admittedly rejected by Court below. Sri Goel, learned counsel for appellant contended that rejection of amendment of plaint shows that challenge to installation of appellant as Shankaracharya by way of amendment of suit was declined by Court below and that having been done, no further relief could have been granted, hence suit as framed and remained pending had already rendered infructuous and ought to have been dismissed for this reason alone. He said that the Court below in failing to appreciate this aspect and granting injunction by the impugned judgment and decreeing the suit has clearly erred in law. 652.	Learned counsel for plaintiff respondent sought to argue that there were three parts of relief in the plaint as it was filed: (i) for restraining defendant-appellant from installing as Shankaracharya (ii) to restrain him from proclaiming himself as Shankaracharya and (iii) for restraining from holding Dand, Chhatra, Chanwar and Singhasan of the office of Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth. Therefore, relief as framed in the plaint covered every aspect of the matter and even if first part of relief, due to any subsequent event, could not have been granted in the same terms, second and third part of relief covered subsequent events also and hence it cannot be said that the entire suit has rendered infructuous. Then he submitted that pleadings and language used by parties in the plaint or written statement are not to be read as statute but they have to be given natural permissible amplitude. Anything which is not included therein, may not be included but if something on its own is covered within the language used by draftsman of the plaint, it has to be read therein and there is no reason to read it strictly or in a pedantic manner. 653.	The alleged installation of defendant appellant took place on 14/15.11.1989 when suit was duly instituted, registered in Court below and was sub judice. The prayer in the plaint, as we have already noticed, can be read to have three parts of relief as under: 654.	So far as second and third parts are concerned, even if plaintiff has occupied seat of Shankaracharya, as claimed, having been installed on 14/15.11.1989, still there is prayer that he should be restrained from proclaiming himself as Shankaracharya and to hold Danda, Chhatra Chanwar and Singhasan of office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. The aforesaid two reliefs cover a situation where incumbent, if had already come to the office, still, if justified, such injunction could have been granted. Whether such injunction would be granted or not is a question to be decided in the light of evidence but the mere factum of installation of appellant on 14/15.11.1989 will not render the aforesaid second and third part of reliefs, infructuous. To this extent we are unable to agree with Sri Goel and reject his submission. 655.	Even with respect to first part of prayer, we find that an injunction restraining defendant-appellant from installation as Shankaracharya implied within itself that unless a person is installed validly and in accordance with law, in the eyes of law, there is no installation as Shankarcharya. Hence, even first part of relief can be said to have rendered infructuous only when it is proved before Court, in a Trial, that party concerned has been installed validly and in accordance with law and only then first part of relief can be said to have rendered infructuous and not otherwise. 656. In other words, in our view, mere claim of installation on 14/15th November 1989 cannot be read to have effect of rendering entire suit infructuous for the reason, when prayer is made for permanent injunction restraining parties from doing or not doing something, it implicates such action to be taken or not to be taken, in accordance with law. Therefore, in order to hold first part of relief as having rendered infructuous, it is necessary to examine whether alleged installation had taken place in accordance with law. If there is no installation in accordance with law, it is no installation in the eye of law. Therefore, such invalid installation cannot be taken sufficient to render the suit infructuous. 657.	Judicial review for adjudication of matter cannot be to shut a claim on the ground that what is sought to be restrained, has already taken place, unless what has taken place, is in accordance with law. If alleged installation of appellant was not valid, plaintiffs are entitled to pray for injunction restraining him (defendant-appellant) and also to restrain from exercising powers of office by using other symbols etc. of such office which are also part of prayer in the plaint. Therefore, for the mere fact that defendant-appellant claims to have been installed in the office of Shankaracharya, after filing of suit, we find it difficult to hold that suit in its entirety has rendered infructuous and liable to be dismissed unless we find that installation of appellant is valid and in accordance with law. 658.	Therefore, the question no. XIII whether entire suit has rendered infructuous after alleged installation of defendant-appellant as Shankaracharya on 14/15.11.1989 has to be answered against appellant for the reason that the second and third part of relief, as noted above, was open to be considered by Court and in respect of even first part, unless a finding is recorded that alleged installation was valid and in accordance with law, even that part of relief cannot be said to have rendered infructuous. 
 
We, therefore, answer Question No.-XIII in negative and against appellant holding that suit did not render infructuous as pleaded by appellant. 659.	Now we have to examine capacity of appellant to become Shankaracharya, which has been answered in negative by Court below holding him ineligible, unqualified for installation in the seat of Shankaracharya. Points of determination no. XIV and XV are as under: 660.	We propose to consider Question-XV first and thereafter will proceed to discuss Question-XIV. 661.	Sri Goel raised a preliminary objection that there is no specific pleading and material facts are lacking in the plaint with regard to alleged disqualification or eligibility of appellant to hold the seat of Shankaracharya. Therefore, same cannot be gone into and Court below also erred in law in looking into this aspect. He contended that in the plaint, there was no material fact pleaded with regard to alleged disqualification or lack of qualification on the part of appellant to be installed or appointed as Shankaracharya, therefore, on the basis of averments contained in replication or subsequent evidence adduced by plaintiff, qualification of appellant to hold the seat of Shankaracharya cannot be examined. He also submitted that by way of amendment plaintiff intended to bring on record specific pleadings with regard to alleged qualification/ disqualification of appellant for installation as Shankaracharya but proposed amendment having been rejected by Court below, same could not have been allowed to be examined, indirectly. 662.	In other words, Sri Goel, learned counsel for appellant, contended that a highly belated amendment of plaint was sought by plaintiff vide amendment application dated 01.09.2005. Amendment was sought in certain paragraphs of plaint as well as addition of relief. Amendment application vide order dated 22.12.2006, was largely rejected and certain minor amendments in the plaint were allowed. Since amendment for addition of prayer was specifically rejected on the ground that it is barred by limitation, meaning thereby, the facts which plaintiff desired to bring on record as a part of pleadings having been rejected, neither by permitting parties to lead evidence nor otherwise, in respect of those facts, any finding could have been recorded and Trial Court to this extent has erred in law. 663.	Sri Shashi Nandan, per contra, argued that pleadings, already available, if cover a particular aspect, same could not have been ignored and evidence adduced in this regard could not be refused on the ground that detailed pleadings are not available. The argument is that by way of evidence, an issue raised can be clarified and expanded. Suggestion that mere rejection of amendment application will exclude all those facts sought to be made part of the pleadings by way of amendment, is misconceived, for the reason that on most of the aspects, basic pleadings were available and plaintiff only wanted to bring on record some detailed facts which Court did not permit, since it was not necessary. 664.	Amendment application (paper 366-Ka) is at page 59 of Aappellant's Paper Book, Volume-I. It is dated 01.09.2005. It shows that application was filed when parties were yet to adduce evidence before Court below. Delay was sought to be explained with reference to disposal of ad-interim injunction application filed under Order 39 Rule 1 C.P.C . and interim injunction was granted on 22.02.1999 restraining appellant from proclaiming himself Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Thereagainst appellant preferred Miscellaneous Appeal No. 41 of 1999, which was dismissed on 27.04.2000 by VII Additional District Judge, Allahabad. Thereagainst, appellant preferred writ petition no. 24085 of 2000, wherein an interim order was passed on 22.05.2000 and parties were directed to maintain status quo. Writ petition was finally decided by judgement dated 23.01.2004 whereagainst both parties preferred Civil Appeal No. 4613 of 2005 before Apex Court. Vide order dated 02.08.2005, Court directed parties to maintain status quo. Aforesaid proceedings caused delay in filing amendment which also became necessary due to subsequent events and claim made by appellant regarding installation as Shankaracharya on 14/15.11.1989 i.e. after filing of suit. Amendment was, therefore, requested in the plaint as well as replication. Plaintiff requested for addition of paragraphs 44/1 and 44/2 in plaint and 22 grounds challenging installation of appellant on the ground of lack of qualification, ineligibility etc. He also prayed for addition of relief A/1 after prayer A already made. Prayer A/1 sought to be added in the plaint reads as under: 665.	Minor amendment in paragraphs 12 and 14 of replication was prayed i.e. addition of word "Krishna Bodhashram" and deletion of certain words from para 12. Trial Court decided this application vide order dated 22.12.2006. It held that relief sought to be added was clearly barred by time, hence, in view of law laid down in Radhika Devi v. Bajrangi Singh and Others , AIR 1996 SC 2358: 1996 (7) SCC 486, amendment cannot be allowed. Addition of para 44/1 was allowed but addition of 22 grounds was rejected. Similarly, amendments sought in replication were also rejected. 666.	Sri Goel argued that plaintiff has failed to plead material facts with regard to alleged disqualification of appellant, for holding office of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, hence it could not have been gone into, and for that reason alone, Trial Court ought to have rejected it. He placed reliance on Raj Narain Vs. Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi and another (1972) 3 SCC 850; Shri Udhav Singh Vs. Madhav Rao Scindia (1977) 1 SCC 511; Kusum Ingots and Alloys Ltd. Vs. Union of India and another (2004) 6 SCC 254; Mahadeorao Sukaji Shivankar Vs. Ramaratan Bapu and others (2004) 7 SCC 181; Anil Basudev Salgaonkar Vs. Naresh Kushali Shigaonkar ( 2009) 9 SCC 310 and Jitu Patnaik Vs. Sanatan Mohakud and others , (2012) 4 SCC 194. 667.	All the aforesaid authorities relied by Sri Goel had arisen from election dispute except Kusum Ingots and Alloys Ltd. (supra) which was an appeal decided by Supreme Court, arising from a judgment of High Court in a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution. 668. In Raj Narain vs. Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi (supra) matter had come up before Highest Court from an election dispute of Lok Sabha Constituency of Rai Barelilly held in March 1971. Election petition was filed by Raj Narain, challenging election of returned candidate Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi from Rai Bareli Constituency of Lok Sabha in General Elections held in March 1971. After completion of pleadings and framing of issues, election petitioner moved an application under Order 11 Rule 7 of Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter referred to as " CPC ") for leave to deliver interrogatories in writing for the examination of respondent Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi. It was objected by respondent contending that Order 11 C.P.C . is not applicable to election petitions and reserving her right to object to interrogatories sought to be served at a later stage. Justice Broome vide order dated 14.09.1971 allowed application and granted leave to election petitioner to deliver interrogatories for examination of respondent and rejected objections raised by respondent. During pendency of appeal respondent filed an application before this Court under Order 11 Rule 7 C.P.C . praying that the interrogatories served on her may be set aside as they were "unreasonable, vexatious, oppressive, unnecessary and irrelevant". 31 interrogatories were served on respondent. All the interrogatories related to Issues 1 to 3. Entire arguments before Trial Court in election petition were founded on the ground that election petitioner did not disclose corrupt practices which were the subject-matter of Issues 1 to 3. Contention of respondent found favour with Election Judge and it set aside some of interrogatories served upon respondent. Proceeding further Court also struck out issues 1 to 3. Thereafter Raj Narain, election petitioner moved an application for amendment of paragraphs 2 and 5 of election petition by giving better particulars. This application was also rejected by Election Judge on the ground that amendment in question sought to add to material facts and cannot-be accepted after the period of limitation for filing election petition. Earlier appeal filed against the order dated 14.09.1971 before the Supreme Court, against the order setting aside the interrogatories served on respondent and striking out of Issues 1 to 3 was registered as Civil Appeal No. 108 of 1972 and appeal against the order rejecting amendment application was registered as Civil Appeal No. 109 of 1972 and these two matters were decided in the aforesaid judgment dated 15.03.1972. Supreme Court found that out of three issues, Issue 2 was not pressed, Issue 3 was largely consequential to Issue 2. Therefore Court examined only Issue 1 and after going through pleading, observed that while corrupt practice has got to be strictly proved but from that it does not follow that a pleading in an election proceeding should receive a strict construction. Even a defective charge does not vitiate a criminal trial unless it is proved that the same has prejudiced accused. If a pleading on a reasonable construction, could sustain the action, the Court should accept that construction. Courts are reluctant to frustrate an action on technical grounds. Charge of corrupt practice in an election is a very serious charge. Purity of election is the very essence of real democracy. The charge in question was denied by the respondent. It has yet to be proved. It may or may not be proved. Allegations made against election petitioner may ultimately be proved to be wholly devoid of truth. However, Court should not refuse to enquire into allegations merely because election petitioner or someone who prepared his brief did not know the language of the law and could not draft election petition artistically. Court said that it will not non-suit a person for such technical reason. Referring to Sections 83(1) Clauses (a) and (b) and Section 86(5) of Representation of People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as " R.P. Act, 1951 "), Court held that if the allegations made regarding a corrupt practice do not disclose the constituent parts of the corrupt practice alleged, the same will not be allowed to be proved and further those allegations cannot be amended after the period of limitation for filing an election petition; but the Court may allow particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition to be amended or amplified. It further observed that the petition must contain a concise statement of material facts on which petitioner relies and fullest possible particulars of corrupt practice alleged. 'Material facts' and 'particulars' may overlap but the word 'material' shows that the ground of corrupt practice and facts necessary to formulate a complete cause of action must be stated. Function of particulars is to present as full a picture of the cause of action as to make the opposite party understand the case, he will have to meet. If corrupt practice is alleged in the petition, particulars of such corrupt practice may be amended or amplified for ensuring a fair and effective trial, that is, more and better particulars of the charge may be given later, even after the period of limitation; but if a corrupt practice is not previously alleged in the petition, an amendment which will have the effect of introducing particulars of such a corrupt practice will not be permitted, after the period of limitation, since, it will tantamount to making a fresh petition. In other words, Court held that facts stated in the petition relating to any corrupt practice must be sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The facts must bring out all the ingredients of corrupt practice alleged. If the facts stated fail to satisfy that requirement, then they do not give rise to a triable issue. Such a defect cannot be cured by any amendment after the period of limitation for filing the election petition. But even if all the material facts are stated in the election petition, for a proper trial, better particulars may still be required. If those particulars are not set out in the election petition, they may be incorporated into the election petition with the permission of the Court even after the period of limitation. Having said so, Court said : 669. In the aforesaid facts since sheet anchor was Section 86(5) of R.P. Act, 1951, considering the same, Court in Raj Narain Vs. Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi and another (supra) has held as under : 670.	Consequently, Supreme Court allowed appeal by setting aside judgment of Election Judge in regard to Issue 1 and some part of Issue 3. Court also set aside order rejecting amendment and allowed appeal of Election Petitioner in this respect but with regard to interrogatories, some of which were found irrelevant by Supreme Court, to that extent judgment of High Court was upheld. 671. In Shri Udhav Singh Vs. Madhav Rao Scindia (supra), again question arose about "material facts" and "material particulars" in the context of language of Section 83(1)(a) and (b) of R.P. Act 1951. Dispute had arisen of General Elections of Lok Sabha from Guna Parliamentary Constituency, held in March 1971. Respondent Madhav Rao Scindia was declared elected. Election petition was filed by Udhav Singh, an elector of the Constituency, on 26.04.1971, challenging election of respondent on two grounds. Firstly, elected candidate had incurred or authorized expenditure in excess of limit of Rs. 35,000/- prescribed under Section 77(3) of R.P. Act 1951 read with Rule 90 of Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. Second ground was that workers of elected candidate threatened electors with bodily injuries and criminally intimidated them not to vote for Shri Deorao Krishnarao Jadhav the Congress candidate. After completion of pleadings and examination of about 12 witnesses, an application was filed on behalf of respondent that election petitioner in para 11 (iv) of election petition has alleged commission of corrupt practice within meaning of Section 123(2) of R.P. Act 1951 by Sri Shiv Pratap Singh, another candidate but was not impleaded, therefore, petition was liable to be dismissed under Section 86 for non-compliance of mandate of Section 82(b) . This objection was upheld and election petition was dismissed. Hence, the matter went to Supreme Court. Court found that Shiv Pratap Singh was one of the candidates, whose papers were found in order by Returning Officer but he withdrew his nomination subsequently. However, he was a 'candidate' for the purpose of relevant provisions of R.P.Act 1951. One of objections raised before Supreme Court on behalf of election petitioner was that objection with regard to non-joinder was not taken in written statement but raised for the first time after 14 months and that too, after examination of witnesses by election petitioner, hence it amounts to waiver. It was pleaded that in view of mandate of Order 8 Rule 2 C.P.C ., all pleas showing petition to be not maintainable should have been taken in written statement. That having not been done, objection with regard to non impleadment of Shiv Pratap Singh could not have been taken at advanced stage. Court held that after considering issues in the light of Section 82(b) , a charge of corrupt practice against candidate, if established, entails serious penal consequences. It has effect of debarring him from being a candidate at an election for considerably a long period, therefore, provision of impleadment of a person against whom allegations of corrupt practice are made in election petition has been made in Section 82 and it is consistent with fundamental principles of natural justice, i.e. nobody should be condemned unheard. Court observed that requirement of Section 82(b) is nothing but an obligation cast upon election petitioner to join to his petition a candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in election petition and its disobedience inexorably attracts Section 86 which commands the High Court in equally imperative language to dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 82 . This requirement cannot be consented or express or tacit, so as to waive or condone such non compliance. Court said: 672. 	Having said so, Court in Udhav Singh Vs. Madhav Rao Scindia (supra) held that respondent was neither obliged to raise this objection in written statement nor precluded from raising the objection at a subsequent stage after close of election petitioner's evidence. It observed that Rule 2 of order 8 CPC is rule of practice and convenience and justice. This procedural rule is to subserve and not enslave the cause of justice. Referring to language of order 8 rule 2 and in particular, the words "all such grounds of defence as, if not raised would be likely to take the opposite party by surprise", Court said that these words denote broad test for determining whether a particular defence plea or fact is required to be incorporated in the written statement. If the plea or ground of defence 'raises issues of fact not arising out of the plaint', such plea or ground is likely to take the plaintiff by surprise, and is therefore required to be pleaded. If the plea or ground of defence raises an issue arising out of what is alleged or admitted in the plaint, or is otherwise apparent from the plaint, itself, no question of prejudice or surprise to the plaintiff arises. Nothing in the Rule compels the defendant to plead such a ground, nor debars him from setting it up at a later stage of the case, particularly when it does not depend on evidence but raises a pure question of law turning on a construction of the plaint. Thus, a plea of limitation that can be substantiated without any evidence and is apparent on the face of the plaint itself, may be allowed to be taken at any stage of the suit. Referring general principles of pleadings, Court said that cardinal canon of interpretation is that a pleading has to be read as a whole to ascertain its true import. It is not permissible to cull out a sentence or a passage and to read it out of the context, in isolation. It is the substance and not merely the form that has to be looked into, the pleading has to be construed as it stands without addition or subtraction of words, or change of its apparent grammatical sense. The intention of the party concerned is to be gathered, primarily, from the tenor and terms of his pleading taken as a whole. Thereafter proceeding to consider distinction between "material facts" and "material particulars", Court in paragraphs 41, 42 and 43 said as under: 673. In Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. (Supra) dispute was of a different nature. Appellant was a company registered under the Indian Companies Act with its registered office at Mumbai. It obtained a loan from the Bhopal Branch of State Bank Of India, M.P. Bank issued a notice for repayment of said loan in terms of provisions of Secularization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. Company questioning the vires of said Act, filed a writ petition challenging consequential repayment notice before the Delhi Court. The said writ petition was dismissed by the Delhi High Court for want of territorial jurisdiction. Argument raised before Supreme Court that constitutionality of Parliamentary Act was in question which has seat at New Delhi therefore High Court of Delhi has requisite jurisdiction and it is a case of part of cause of action. Court rejected aforesaid contention and upheld view taken by the Delhi High Court, that there was no territorial jurisdiction. Considering that in order to maintain an action in a Court of law there must have arisen a cause of action wholly or in part. The term "cause of action" was explained by Court in para 6 as under: 674.	Relying on Chand Kaur vs. Partab Singh (1987-88) 15 Indian Appeals, 156, Court observed that cause of action has no relation whatever to the defence which may be set up by the defendant, nor does it depend upon the character of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff. It refers entirely to the ground set forth in the plaint as the cause of action, or, in other words, to the media upon which the plaintiff asks the Court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour. 675.	Relying on principles of Section 20(c) CPC, Court in Kusum Ingots and Alloys Ltd. Vs. Union of India (supra) reiterated that question of territorial jurisdiction must be founded on the basis of averments made in writ petition otherwise it is immaterial. All necessary facts must form an integral part of cause of action. Mere service of notice would not give rise to cause of action unless service of notice was an integral part of cause of action. It relied on its earlier decision in Aligarh Muslim University vs. Vinay Engg. Enterprises (P) Ltd. (1994) 4 SCC 710, where a contract of work was executed at Aligarh; construction work was to be carried out at Aligarh, even the contracts provided that in the event of dispute, the Aligarh Court alone will have jurisdiction; Arbitrator was from Aligarh and was to function thereat. Since the company was a Calcutta-based firm, it instituted petition in Calcutta High Court and Court held that it was a case of abuse of jurisdiction and Calcutta High Court had no territorial jurisdiction. Court also observed that facts pleaded in writ petition must have nexus on the basis whereof a prayer can be granted. Those facts which have nothing to do with the prayer made therein cannot be said to give rise to a cause of action, which would confer jurisdiction on Court. Passing of a legislation by itself does not confer any such right to file a writ petition unless a cause of action arises therefor. A distinction between a legislation and executive action should be borne in mind while determining a question of territorial jurisdiction. Court observed that a Parliamentary Legislation when receives assent of the President of India and published in an Official Gazette, unless specifically excluded, will apply to entire territory of India. If passing of a legislation gives rise to a cause of action, a writ petition questioning constitutionality thereof can be filed in any High Court of the country. It is not so done because a cause of action will arise only when provisions of the Act or some of them which were implemented will give rise to civil or evil consequences to petitioner. A writ Court, would not determine a constitutional question in vacuum. 676. Mahadeo Rao Sukaji Shivankar vs. Ramaratan Bapu and others (supra), is also a decision arising from election dispute under the provisions of R.P. Act 1951. Challenging election of Mahadeo Rao Sukaji Shivankar who was elected from Legislative Constituency, Bhandara, Maharashtra, an election petition was filed in 1999 at Bombay High Court (Nagpur Bench) by Ramratan Bapu, on the ground of corrupt practice adopted by returned candidate. It was alleged that returned candidate did not submit correct and true accounts, spent unaccounted money and also violated various provisions of R.P Act 1951 . Returned candidate while putting appearance, filed written statement, denying allegations contained in election petition. He also filed application under Order 7 Rule 11(a) C.P.C for rejection of election petition on the ground that it did not disclose any cause of action and also filed another application under Order 6 Rule 16 for striking out certain pleadings from election petition. One more application was filed by election-petitioner for granting permission to furnish material particulars of corrupt practice, adopted by returned candidate as alleged in election-petition. High Court by order dated 15.02.2003 rejected two applications filed by returned candidate but allowed application filed by election-petitioner. This order was challenged in appeal before Supreme Court. Considering meaning of word "material facts" and "material particulars", Court in paragraphs 6 and 7 of judgement said as under : 677. In Harkirat Singh v. Amrinder Singh (2005) 13 SCC 511, distinction between "material facts and material particulars was again pointed out and Court said: 678.	Distinction between "material facts: and "material particulars" was also examined in Virender Nath Gautam vs. Satpal Singh (2007)3 SCC 617, where in paragraphs 34 and 35 the Court said as under: 679. In Anil Vasudev Salgaonkar versus Naresh Kushali Shigaonkar (Supra ) same question was raised with regard to pleadings whether "material facts" and "full particulars" have been given or not and what is the distinction between two in the context of provisions of R.P. Act 1951. The dispute had arisen from election of Goa Legislative assembly from 35, Sanvordem Assembly Constituency, for which election was held on 2nd June, 2007. Anil Vasudev Salgaonkar was declared elected. Naresh Kumar Shigaonkar was nearest defeated candidate. Election petition was filed on the ground that returned candidate for securing victory, used corrupt practices by getting 13 bore wells constructed at his own cost in seven villages of the said Constituency and also provided ambulances to those villages namely, Collem, Sanvordem, Mollem, Dharbandora and Khirpal Dabhal as a part of his action in luring voters to vote in his favour. Various objections were raised by returned candidate by filing written statement, stating that material facts constituting corrupt practice were not pleaded and, therefore, election petition deserved to be dismissed. High Court rejected objections hence the matter went in appeal before Supreme Court. Court held that with regard to allegation of boring and ambulances, there was no pleading that the same was done within the knowledge of returned candidate and what was the cost involved in providing the same. There was no pleading as to how voters were influenced in favour of appellant so as to cast votes in his favour. Particulars of such voters were also not given and pleadings were general. Court observed that what particulars are to be stated must depend on the facts of each case. It is absolutely essential that the pleading, not to be embarrassing to defendants, should state those facts which will put the defendants on their guard and tell them what they have to meet when the case comes on for trial. The word 'material' means necessary for the purpose of formulating a complete cause of action; and if any one 'material' fact is omitted, the statement of claim is bad; it is 'demurrable' in the old phraseology, and in the new is liable to be 'struck out'. The Court quoted from Halsbury's Laws of England (4th Edn.) Vol 36, Para 38 following passage with approval.. 680.	After referring its earlier decisions, in para 57, Court in Anil Vasudev Salgaonkar Vs. Naresh Kushali Shigaonkar (Supra ) said: 681. Jitu Patnayak v. Sanatan Mohakud and Others (2012) 4 SCC 194, is also a judgement arising from an election dispute under RP Act 1951. Assembly election of 25- Champua Assembly Constituency, Orrissa was notified in march 2009 to be held on 23.04.2009. One of contesting and independent candidate died on 13.04.2009 and his death was allegedly informed to Returning Officer. However his name continued in electronic voting machine in the list of contesting candidates. Jitu Patnaik having secured 27700 votes was declared elected, defeating respondents Sanatan Mohakud who could secure 27555 votes. Deceased candidate Akhila Kumar Mohanta also got 550 votes. An election-petition was filed by Sanatan Mohakud. Objections of non pleading of cause of action and striking of certain allegations by filing applications under Order 7 Rule 11 and Order 6 Rule 16 CPC were taken. Some of Paragraphs were struck out by Court but it directed to proceed with the election petition. Aggrieved thereby, returned candidate filed appeal in Supreme Court. Real ground was that due to continuance of name of independent candidate (who died on 13.04.2009) on electronic voting machine, 550 votes were cast in his favour and if it would not have happened, those votes might have been gone to election-petitioner and this has adversely affected the election. Court held that there is no provision under R.P. Act 1951 except Section 52 , providing for the consequences following the death of a candidate after publication of list of contesting candidates under Section 38 and before poll. Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 also do not provide for such contingency. It provides that only living persons can offer themselves or be offered as candidates for membership of Parliament or State Legislatures. However, once nomination has been filed by a candidate and on scrutiny, his candidature is found proper and before the expiry of the period of the withdrawal, he has not withdrawn his candidature and his name is included in the list of validly nominated candidates prepared under Section 38 of R.P. Act 1951 and Rule 11 of the 1961 Rules, if death of a contesting candidate as defined in Section 38 takes place, consequences following the death of such contesting candidate have to be found from electoral law contained in R.P. Act 1951 or the Rules framed thereunder. Right to contest an election or question the election is neither provided in common law nor is a fundamental right but a statutory right regulated by statutory provision contained in R.P. Act 1951 which is a complete self-contained Code, within which rights or claim in relation to any election or election dispute must be found. Court said that in absence of any such provision, death of a candidate would make no impact on the election. Considering question of "material facts" in the light of Section 83(1)(a) of R.P. Act 1951 and order 6 Rule 2 CPC , Court said in paragraph 45 as under: 682. 	From the aforesaid judgements it is evident that the words "material facts" have been read so as to mean that all facts necessary to formulate a complete cause of action. All basic and primary facts which must be proved by a party to establish existence of cause of action or defence are material facts. "Material facts" in other words, mean the entire bundle of facts which we would constitute complete cause of action. 683.	Sri Goel also submitted, when parties are prejudiced then mere fact that evidence has been adduced and entire material is on record hence technical plea of lack of pleading should not be allowed to be raised and relied on certain authorities which we consider as under. 684. In Bhagawati Prasad Vs Chandramaul , AIR 1966 SC 735, a suit for ejectment and arrears of rent and future mesne profits was filed stating that plaintiff is the owner of House No. 59/8, Nachghar, Birhana Road, Kanpur. It was pleaded that plaintiff and defendant were friends and enjoying mutual confidence. When the house was constructed, defendant wanted some premises for residence, hence when the ground floor was constructed it was let out to defendant on a monthly rent of Rs.150/- in 1947. In 1948, first floor was completed and the same was also let out to defendant on an additional rent of Rs.150/- per month and in 1950 second floor was constructed and the same was also let out to defendant on a further additional rent of Rs. 150/- per month. The total rent therefore, came to Rs. 450/- in 1950 which was continuously paid by defendant till 31.03.1954. Thereafter it committed default, hence suit for ejectment and recovery of arrears of rent was filed. Defendant took the defence that though land was owned by plaintiff but the house raised thereat was constructed by defendant from his own fund and it was agreed that so long as the expenses incurred by defendants in construction of house are not clear would be entitled to continue to stay thereat. Trial Court rejected the defence of defendant and held ownership in favour of plaintiff but in respect to rent it held that Rs. 300/- per month is the reasonable rent and passed decree of ejectment and arrears of rent monthly Rs. 300/-. In appeal preferred before High Court, the findings of Trial Court with regard to ownership of house and rent both were confirmed but then High Court held that in view of U.P. (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as "Act 1947") in respect whereto an Ordinance was issued somewhere in 1946, letting out of building without permission of District Magistrate was not permissible and therefore it modified the decree and while confirming the decree for ejectment set aside the decree with regard to rent and mesne profits. In appeal preferred before Supreme Cout by both sides, on behalf of defendant it was argued that High Court has made a new case for the plaintiff and once it held that tenancy was not valid in law even decree of ejectment would not have been granted. Court held that decision of the case cannot be based on grounds outside the pleadings of parties and it is the case pleaded that has to be found as held in Trojan and Company Ltd. Vs Rm.N.N. Nagappa Chettiar , AIR 1953 SC 235. However it observed that said observations were made with regard to claim made by plaintiff for certain sum of money on the ground that defendant had sold certain shares belonging to him without his instructions but plaintiff failed to prove that sale had not been authorized by him. In Bhagwati Vs Chandramaul (supra) Court said: 685. In making aforesaid observations, Court relied on its earlier decision in Sheodhar Rai and others Vs Suraj Prasad Singh and others, AIR 1954 SC 758, but thereafter it has said that for considering the application of doctrine of facts of the case, it is necessary to bear in mind the other principle that considerations of form cannot over-ride the legitimate considerations of substance. It said: 686. The manner in which the aforesaid principle could have been applied is also clear from further discussion from paras 13 and 14 of judgment in Bhagwati Vs Chandramaul (supra) and it would be useful to reproduce the same as under: 687. Court upheld the judgment of this Court which founded on two Full Bench judgments in Abdul Ghani VS Musammat Babni, I.L.R. 25 All. 256 and Balmakund Vs Dalu, I.L.R. 25 All. 498, wherein it was held, where the plaintiff asks for the ejectment of the defendant on the ground that defendant is a tenant in the premises, a decree for ejectment can be passed even though tenancy is not proved, provided it is established that the possession of the defendant is that of a licensee. Court observed that importance of pleadings cannot be ignored because it is the pleadings that lead to framing of issues in the suit and a trial in every civil case has inevitably to be confined to the issues framed in the suit. The whole object of framing the issues would be defeated if parties are allowed to travel beyond them and claim or oppose reliefs on grounds not made in the pleadings and not covered by the issues. But cases may occur in which though a particular plea is not specifically included in the issues, parties might know that in substance, the said plea is being tried and might lead evidence about it. It is only in such a case where the Court is satisfied that the ground on which reliance is placed by one or the other of the parties, was in substance, at issue between them and that both of them have had opportunity to lead evidence about it at the trial and the formal requirement of pleadings can be relaxed. Court held that High Court was impressed by the thought that once the defendant was shown to be in possession of the suit premises as a licensee, it would be futile to require the plaintiff to file another suit against the defendant for ejectment on that basis and this approach of Court was held justified by Supreme Court. Thereafter Court also considered the appeal of plaintiff which was against that part of judgment of High Court where the rent and mesne profits were denied and the Court held that once it was found that plaintiff was entitled to eject defendant, for the period defendant was in possession of property he was liable to pay mesne profit or damages for use and occupation of said property and therefore, the decree for ejectment must have been accompanied by a direction for payment of future mesne profits or damages. 688. In Mohan Lal Vs Anandibai and others , 1971 (1) SCC 313, Court, as a matter of fact, found that pleadings did not contain any reference with regard to fraudulent or antedating of sale deed. No issue was framed. For the first time during arguments before Trial Court, question of fraud and plea of antedating was sought to be raised for the first time during course of arguments. In these facts and circumstances, Court considered the fact that there was no opportunity to other side to lead evidence or objection regarding fraud or antedating as a new plea could not have been allowed at the stage of hearing either before Trial Court or before Appellate Court. Court said: 689. Similarly with regard to objection raised during course of argument before Trial Court, again Court said: 690. The judgment itself shows that principle laid down therein is unexceptional but would apply to cases where facts are similar and not otherwise. 691. In Kidar Lall Seal and another Vs Hari Lall Seal , AIR 1952 SC 47, Court observed: 692. In Nagubai Ammal and others Vs B. Shama Rao and others, AIR 1964 SC 164, Court observed: 693. Rejecting this argument Court held: 694. In Kunju Kasavan Vs M.M. Philip, I.C.S. and others , AIR 1964 SC 164, an argument was raised that deposition of witnesses could not be looked into when there was no proper plea of issue. Rejecting the same Court said: 695. In Bachhaj Nahar Vs Nilima Mandal and another , (2008) 17 SCC 491, a suit was filed for declaration, possession and injunction against Bachhaj Nahar and Sujash Kumar Ghosh. Suit property was a strip of land which was claimed to be owned by plaintiff under sale deed dated 29.12.1962. The reliefs sought in the suit read as under: 696. Defendant resisted the suit contending that he had purchased land from second defendant under sale deed dated 05.05.1982 and suit land actually is his property. Trial Court formulated following eight issues: 697. Trial Court decreed suit, in part, holding that suit property was part of plaintiffs' property and first defendant had encroached over it to the extent of 15 sq. ft. and raised construction thereat. Therefore, instead of restoring possession, it allowed damages and compensation for such encroached portion to the plaintiff. Defendant filed appeal and plaintiff filed cross objection. First Appellate Court held that plaintiffs failed to prove their title and therefore, allowed defendant's appeal and dismissed plaintiff's cross objection and reversed the decree of Trial Court. Consequently, suit was dismissed. In the second appeal preferred by plaintiff, High Court upheld findings of First Appellate Court that plaintiff failed to make out title of the suit property but even then proceeded to hold that plaintiff had made out a case for grant of relief based on easementary right of passage, in respect of the suit property and allowed appeal decreeing suit based on easementary right of plaintiff though there was neither any pleading nor issue nor evidence with regard to easementary right. Supreme Court held that High Court, when there was no pleading or evidence on the question of right of easement, in its zeal to cut delay, has violated several fundamental rules of Civil Procedure which are: 698. It is in this background, Court in Bachhaj Nahar Vs Nilima Mandal (supra) explained object and purpose of pleading in framing issues and said in paras 12 and 13, as under: 699. In Ram Sarup Gupta Vs Bishun Narain Inter College , AIR 1987 SC 1242, Court said: 700. Referring to the law of Easements, Court in Ram Sarup Gupta (supra) said that it has certain relevant facts to establish and unless there is a pleading or issue or evidence the same cannot be assumed so as to give relief and in paras 19, 20 and 21 said as under: 701.	In the present case injunction was sought against appellant from functioning as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotispeeth on various grounds and one pleaded in para 42 is that appellant did not possess requisite qualification as provided in Mathamnay and Mahanushasan so as to be installed as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotispeeth. Material particulars, therefore, for seeking relief of injunction against appellant with respect to qualification, in our view, is covered by pleadings of para 42 of plaint. What qualifications are needed for installation as Shankaracharya, in reference thereof, plaintiff has referred to Mathamnay and Mahanushasan. Further details as to what qualifications are prescribed in aforesaid books of commands is a matter of evidence and for that purpose evidence has been led by both parties. In our view, it cannot be said that material particulars are not given in this respect which were necessary for grant of relief to plaintiff. Details thereof is a matter of evidence and that is what has been done by both parties by leading evidence. It is also not the case where appellant has been taken by surprise that issue of disqualification has been raised without any pleading whatsoever in plaint. The only thing is that specific disqualification has not been mentioned but it cannot be construed as if material particulars are not provided which is necessary for grant of relief inasmuch as pleading with regard to disqualification of appellant with reference to qualifications prescribed in Mathamnay and Mahanushasan has specifically been averred in para 42 of plaint. In view of law discussed above and looking to pleadings in plaint, we find ourselves unable to agree with Sri Goel that there is defect of material particulars provided in plaint and hence question of disqualification of appellant could not have been looked into by Court below. We, therefore, reject this submission. 702.	Sri Goel also contended that replication is not part of pleading and, therefore, facts stated therein for the first time could not have been treated to be part of pleadings so as to go into the question relating to qualification/disqualification of appellant based on facts stated in replication. 703.	The above submission is also of no substance for the reason that we have already held that basic pleading is already existing in plaint. Even in respect of replication the argument advanced by Sri Geol, we find, difficult to accept. 704.		Provisions relating to pleadings are contained in Orders 6, 7 and 8 C.P.C . Order 6 deals with pleading in general. Order 7 deals with plaint and Order 8 deals with written statement. Order 6 Rule 1 defines pleadings stating that pleadings shall mean plaint or written statement. Sub-rule (3) provides the form of pleading which should be the form in Appendix 'A' where applicable, and where same is not applicable, in the form of like character as nearly as may be. The said appendix does not contain anything by way of form relating to replication. Apparently in the provisions of CPC we find no reference to term 'replication' but under Order 8 Rule 9 it has been provided that no pleading subsequent to written statement of a defendant other than by way of defence to set off or counter claim shall be presented except by leave of Court. Meaning thereby a subsequent pleading can be entertained by Court by granting permission and thereupon if it finds necessary it may require defendant to file an additional written statement also. It is admitted case that in the present case after filing of replication, and then amendment of plaint, an additional written statement was filed by appellant. 705.	Replication was filed in 1995. At no point of time appellant has taken any objection before Court below. In 2006 an amendment was allowed in plaint permitting insertion of a paragraph and some minor amendments. Thereafter appellant also filed an additional written statement. It was always open to appellant to reply the facts stated in replication but in additional written statement appellant chose to reply only to the extent amendment was allowed in plaint. Issues were framed by Court below on the basis of pleadings of parties. Thereafter parties led evidence which included issue relating to disqualification of appellant to hold the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/ Jyotishpeeth. When matter has been decided, now for the first time, issue of lack of pleading is being raised in this appeal. Firstly, as we have already said, pleading with regard to disqualification of appellant was already there in plaint. Secondly, that we are of the view that replication has only clarified some aspects and not constitutes a pleading in respect of a fact stated for the first time therein and, thirdly, as no objection was raised by appellant before Court below, issues were framed by Court below with the consent of both parties and thereafter parties have also led evidence and issue has been decided, we find no substance in aforesaid argument. Some authorities have also been relied by learned counsel for appellant that replication is not part of pleadings unless permitted by Court, but looking to the facts of this case we find nothing therein so as to help appellant in support of his wide submission with regard to absence of material particulars as noticed above. The point for determination no. 15, therefore, is answered against appellant. 706.	Now we come to the Question-XIV regarding disqualification of appellant. Trial Court formulated Issues 12 and 13, "whether appellant did not possess requisite qualification for installation in the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth" and "whether alleged installation of appellant on 14/15.11.1989 in the seat of Shankaracharya was invalid and illegal." Relating to installation of appellant, another Issue 7 was formulated "whether Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati was entitled and competent to execute a 'Will' or otherwise nominate successor for installation as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. In regard to competence of Sri Vishnudevanand Saraswati for execution of 'Will' or nomination, Court below has also formulated Issue 6 "whether installation of Sri Vishnudevanand Saraswati was in accordance with the line of succession led by Sri Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, vide 'Will' dated 18.12.1952." 707.	Issues 6 and 7 both have been answered by Court below against appellant. Similarly, Issues 12 and 13 have also been answered in favour of plaintiff and against appellant. 708.		We have already discussed above that succession of Shankaracharya in Amnaya Peeth has to take place as per settled and well established customs, usages and traditions of "Guru-Shishya Parampara". Existing Shankaracharya who is holding position, nominates his successor and that is how line of succession continues. The only exception is, when other persons, can select a person as Shankaracharya for installation when no such nomination has been made by outgoing Shankaracharya. We have also discussed above that in Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth, First Installation of Shankaracharya namely Swami Trotokacharya, was performed by Adi Shankaracharya himself. Thereafter a continuous line of succession exists where appointment of successor has been made by outgoing Shankaracharya, except when Swami Ram Krishna who died in 1776 A.D., (Vikram Samvat 1833) could not nominate his successor, whereupon Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth seat remained in oblivion for almost 165 years. It was revived in 1941 by congregation of Manishigan which included "B.D.S.,VNS" , Shankaracharyas of other three Amnaya Peeths and learned Pandits etc. Thereupon Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was selected and installed. After installation, "Swami Brahmanand Saraswati" was entitled to nominate his successor in accordance with old traditions and customs, which had continued for several hundred years and has gained status of law for appointment of Shankaracharya in Amnaya Peeth. This right of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati was also recognized in Trust Deed dated 11.05.1941, which fact also we have discussed above. 709. 	It is true that Swami Brahmanand Saraswati while exercising his right of nomination of successor, gave four names, but in our view, aforesaid Will dated 18.12.1952 containing four names was applicable only as one time nomination. If person placed at serial no. 1 declined, only then person at serial no. 2 could have staked his claim for installation as Shankaracharya. But as soon as person having better priority accepts his nomination, authority of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati to control succession in the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth would cease for the reason that thereafter person nominated and installed as Shankaracharya, at the time of his outgoing from the seat, would have a right to nominate his own successor. In other words, Ramji Tripathi i.e Swami Shantanand Saraswati was the first person, nominated by Sri Swami Brahmanand Saraswati in 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. He accepted his nomination and was installed in the seat of Shankaracharya on 12.06.1953. After his installation, further nomination vide 'Will' dated 18.12.1952, by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati became otiose and redundant since 'Will' attained its purpose and became inoperative for future. Thereafter Swami Shantanand Saraswati acquired a right to nominate his successor in the seat. 710.	Trial Court while deciding Issue 6, has misdirected itself as if rule of inheritance in perpetuity could have been applied to four nominations made by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati vide 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. This assumption on the part of Court below, in our view, is clearly erroneous and goes contrary to the custom and tradition i.e. Guru Shishya-Parampara established for appointment of Shankaracharya in Amnaya Peeth. A person once appointed cannot control succession in perpetuity. No such custom and tradition was ever recognized or at least shown to us to exist. Therefore, conclusion and finding of Court below that nomination and installation of Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth was not in accordance with nomination made in the 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 is erroneous and we reverse the same. We hold that 'Will' dated 18.12.1952 stood exhausted as soon as the person having better priority, nominated therein, accepted his nomination and was installed in the seat of Shankaracharya. Thereafter right of further succession would have to be exercised by such person who got installed and not by earlier one. 711.		We have already held that Swami Shantanand Saraswati was installed on 12.06.1953 and there is no evidence to show that he was actually removed from the seat. Therefore, he continued as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth till he himself withdrew by tendering resignation on 28.02.1980 (Paper No. 159C (Exhibit-12). As an outgoing Shankaracharya, Swami Shantanand Saraswati was entitled to nominate his successor. It is a different thing that following wishes of his own Guru, he exercised his own power of nomination in favour of "Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati". In our view, this nomination by Swami Shantanand Saraswati was consistent with well established customs or usages for appointment of Shankaracharya in Amnaya Peeth as already discussed. Hence, installation of Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati in the seat of Shankaracharya on 28.02.1980 by Swami Shantanand Saraswati cannot be said invalid. The factum that Swami Shantanand Saraswati made nomination, giving weightage to wishes of his Guru Swami Brahmanand Saraswati, would not make such nomination irregular, illegal or contrary to customs and usages for the reason that it was sole discretion of Swami Shantanand Saraswati to make nomination and, for that purpose, he could have followed any principle or policy which could not have been controlled or monitored by any external agency or person(s). Letter of resignation dated 28.02.1980 of Swami Shantanand Saraswati has not been found forged. There is no otherwise evidence to show that Swami Shantanand Saraswati did not nominate Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati as his successor to the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Therefore, findings of Court below recorded otherwise, while deciding Issues 6 and 7, in our view, are perverse and hence we reverse the same. In fact, we find no reason, logic or rationale in the findings of Court below that Swami Shantanand Saraswati nominated Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati in violation of nominations contained in the Will dated 18.12.1952, executed by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati though he could not have violated the said Will. Court below has not referred any reason why Swami Shantanand Saraswati could not have exercised his authority of nomintion without being controlled by anyone. 712.	While answering Issue 6, finding recorded by Court below, reads as under: 713.		For the reason discussed above, aforesaid finding is patently illegal and Trial Court having failed to consider that Will of Swami Brahmanand Saraswati stood exhausted and consummated as soon as one of four persons nominated by him, having better priority, accepted and was installed in the seat of Shankaracharya. Thereafter, the new person would have his own right of succession by nomination. 714.	Now, since we are upholding nomination of Swami Vishnudevnand Saraswati for installation as Shankaracharya by virtue of right of nomination of outgoing Shankaracharya, (Swami Shantanand Saraswati), we have no manner of doubt in upholding right of Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati to execute a 'Will' for nomination of his own successor. 715.		Trial Court has not held that Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati did not execute 'Will' dated 17.04.1989 or the said Will was forged or fictitious document or was not executed properly or for any other reason, but has rejected the said 'Will' only on the ground that since Swami Shantanand Saraswati did not nominate Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati properly, therefore, 'Will' executed by Swami Vishnudevnand Saraswati is also bad. This is erroneous, contrary to established custom regarding nomination of successor and we reverse it. 716.	 One of the arguments advanced on behalf of plaintiff is that the Will dated 17.04.1989 executed by Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati did not nominate appellant, rather it is a mere delegation to another person which was not permissible. It is also pointed out that 'Will' dated 17.04.1989 was unregistered, not signed by Executor and he died on 01.11.1989. After his death, 'Will' was got registered at Lucknow on 14.12.1989. It is pointed out that Trial Court has not examined that 'Will' was not proved as contemplated by provisions of Indian Succession Act, 1925 and Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . There existed a number of suspicious circumstances to show that 'Will' was not genuine, hence, the said 'Will', shall not confer a valid right of succession upon appellant. It is also said that the 'Will' delegated right of nomination to Shantanand Saraswati who ceased to be a Shankaracharya and therefore also, ultimate nomination of appellant was not valid. Reliance is placed by learned counsel for plaintiff on the law laid down in H. Venkatachala Iyengar vs. B. N. Thimmajamma & others AIR 1959 SC 443, (paras 18-21, serial no. 14) Rani Purnima Devi And Another vs Kumar Khagendra Narayan Dev And another, AIR 1962, 567 (para 5-23) and Jagdish Chandra Sharma Vs. Narain Singh Saini , (2015) 8 SCC 615 (para 21,22,46,48 ). Sri Shashi Nandan, learned Senior Counsel for plaintiff also pointed out that expert opinion of PW 42, Sri Madan Mohan Kakkar Handwriting and Fingerprint expert, appearing on behalf of plaintiff was placed before Court below who opined that 'Will' was not genuine. An otherwise report of DW 42 Sri Radhakrishna Gupta, Handwriting and Fingerprint expert, was also placed in evidence by appellant. Court below, he urged has erred in not considering these aspects and the same may be looked into by this Court. He submitted that 'Will' was produced before Court below after evidence of plaintiff was over. There was nothing to show that signatures tallied. Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati was not competent to write 'Will' and, therefore, there was no valid nomination in favour of appellant, so as to validate his installation as Shankaracharya on 14/15.11.1989. 717.	With regard to nomination of outgoing Shankaracharya, no specific procedure has been laid down in Mathamnaya/ Mahanushasan or any other religious scriptures, governing customs or usages for installation of Shankaracharya in the four Peeths, established by Adi Shankaracharya. We do not find any evidence on record to show that Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati did not nominate appellant. Appellant himself appeared in witness box as DW-3 and stated that he was nominated by his Guru and outgoing Shankaracharya and that is how, he was installed on 14/15.11.1989. Relevant deposition reads as under: 718.	In this regard DW 4, DW 5 and DW 9 also stated as under: 719.	DW-25 Sri Satya Narayan Tripathi, DW 31 Sri Swami Narendranand Saraswati Ji Maharaj and DW 35 Sri Mahendra Narayan Dwivedi, deposed that appellant was installed as per desire and nomination by Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati. Relevant deposition reads as under: 720.	We find no otherwise evidence adduced by plaintiff that such desire or nomination was not expressed or made by Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati. In absence of any particular procedure prescribed or laid down in the customs and traditions, as we have discussed above, even a mere oral nomination in our view, would be sufficient to validate succession in the seat of Shankaracharya. Even if 'Will' is ignored, we are of the view that Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati was entitled and competent enough to make nomination of his successor and, in view of evidence discussed above, we hold that he nominated appellant as his successor and pursuant thereto, ceremonies of installation of appellant as Shankaracharya were held on 14/15.11.1989. The findings otherwise, recorded by Court below in the impugned judgment and decree are reversed. 721.	Now the only question to be considered is, "Whether appellant was qualified, eligible and competent to be installed as Shankaracharya." 722.	Learned counsel for plaintiff has pointed out that Court below has rightly held appellant incompetent, lacking essential qualification to become a Shankaracharya as neither he attained Sanyas in the manner prescribed i.e. established customs and usages, nor ever lived that life till the date he claimed to have been installed as Shankaracharya and, therefore, injunction granted by Court below against appellant deserved to be sustained. 723.	On the contrary, Sri Manish Goel submitted that Sanyas was adopted by appellant in 1983 and thereafter he lived life of full sacrifice and mere fact that he was employed will not render disqualify him to become Shankaracharya. He contended that strict discipline of Sanyasi provided in old scriptures, with change of time, is difficult to follow and, therefore, concept of Sanyasi and life of a Sanyasi should be considered in the light of present day realities. He said that whatever salary was received by appellant, it was spent on welfare of people and not consumed for personal benefit. Therefore, he requested that this Court should not apply stringent conditions applicable to a person adopting Sanyas as contemplated in old scriptures like, Sanyasopnishad. 724. Various disqualifications of appellant have been endeavored to be placed before us by learned counsel for appellant, namely, appellant was suffering with contagious decease, had no proper knowledge of traditions, Vedas, Upnishads etc., he was employed in job and getting salary even after the date when he claimed to have adopted Sanyas (reclusion) in 1983, therefore, he was not competent to be installed as Shankaracharya. 725.	It is very seriously contended that in fact, appellant neither adopted 'Sanyas' nor went in reclusion, in the manner, contemplated and provided in various scriptures including 'Sanyasopnishad', nor he ever followed life of a Sanyasi, hence, he lacked basic requirement for the seat of Shankaracharya. In fact, after the so called date of taking reclusion (Sanyas), appellant throughout remained in employment till 13.11.1989, i.e. just the day earlier to date of his alleged installation. He was never a 'Sanyasi' as per established customs or usages having force of law hence, incompetent to hold seat of Shankaracharya. 726. 	We find that evidence oral as well as documentary is available on record on the issue of employment of appellant, PW 33 Sri Raj Narain Tripathi, was a Teacher appointed in Jyotispeeth in Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Shankaracharya Ashram, Alopibagh, Allahabad on 01.09.1967. He was appointed as Head of Department of Literature in the said institution on 01.04.1979. He further deposed that appellant whose earlier name was Somnath Dwivedi, was appointed as Head of Vedanta Department on 10.08.1979 and worked till 13.11.1989 and received salary. It is also pointed out that aforesaid institution, in which, appellant was appointed and worked, is an aided institution from the State Government. Appellant, during employment also visited foreign countries in 1982 and 1983. Appellant submitted resignation on 13.11.1989 (Paper No. 538C i.e. Ex.137) from the aforesaid employment. 727.	The factum of employment of appellant has also been corroborated by PW 28, Sri Shiv Kumar Tiwari. Relevant extracts of PW-28 and PW 33 are reproduced as under: PW-33 Sri Raj Narain Tripathi 
 
**eSa Jh T;ksfr"ihB laLd`r egkfo|ky; 'kadjkpk;Z vkJe vyksihckx] bykgkckn esa 01 flrEcj 1967 bZ0 ls v/;kiu dk;Z dj jgk gwWA --- fo|ky; esa esjh fu;qfDr lkfgR; foHkkxk/;{k ds in ij fnukad 01-4-1979 bZ0 dks osrudze 650&1280 eas gqbZ FkhA** ¼isij ua0&572d] ist&3057½
 
"I have been teaching in Shri Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit Mahavidyalay Shankracharya Ashram Alopibag, Allahabad since 1 September,1967. I had been appointed on 01/04/1979 on the post of Head of the Literature Department, in grade pay 650-1280."
 
**izfroknh dk ewy uke lkseukFk f}osnh iq= Jh rhFkZjkt f}osnh gSA mDr uke ls] izfroknh dh fuq;fDr mDr fo|ky; esa osnkUr foHkkxk/;{k ds in ij fnukad 10-8-1979 dks osrudze 650&1280 esa gqbZ FkhA izfroknh oklqnsokuUn ljLorh us Jh T;ksfr"ihB laLd`r egkfo|ky;] 'kadjkpk;Z vkJe] vyksihckx] bykgkckn esa lkseukFk f}osnh iq= Jh rhFkZjkt f}osnh ds uke ls fnukad 10-8-79 bZ0 ls fnukad 12-11-1989 bZ0 ¼ckjg uoEcj lu~ mUuhl lkS uoklha½ rd mDr fo|ky; esa loSrfud v/;kiu dk;Z fd;k Fkk vkSj fnukad 13-11-89 dks] izfroknh] tks lkseukFk f}osnh ds uke ls mDr fo|ky; esa osnkUr foHkkxk/;{k ds :i esa loSrfud v/;kiu dk;Z fd;k Fkk] osnkUr foHkkxk/;{k in ls R;kx i= fn;k FkkA^^ ¼isij ua0&572d] ist&3058½
 
"Original name of defendant is Somnath Dwivedi, s/o-Shri Tirthraj Dwivedi. Defendant was appointed on the post of Head of Vedant Department in the said Vidyalaya, by the said name, on 10/08/1979, in grade pay-650-1280. Defendant Vasudevanand had taught in Shri Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Shankracharya Ashram, Alopibag, Allahabad in the name of Somnath Dwivedi, S/o-Shri Tirthraj Dwivedi, from 10/08/1979 to 12/11/89(Twelve November eighty nine) on salary basis and the defendant, who had taught as Head of the Vedant Department in the said School, on salary basis in the name of Somnath Dwivedi, had resigned from the post of Head of Vedant Department on 13/11/89."
 
^^Jh lkseukFk f}osnh vFkkZr izfroknh 'kklu }kjk foRr iksf"kr mDr fo|ky; esa fnukad 10-8-1979 ls 12-11-1989 rd osruHkksxh v/;kid jgsA lkseukFk f}osnh tks bl okn esa Lokeh oklqnsokuUn ds uke ls izfroknh gS] fnukad 10-8-1979 ls 12-11-1989 rd v/;kiu dk;Z dk osru izkIr fd;k FkkA --- izfroknh vizSy 1989 bZ0 ls viuk uke lkseukFk f}osnh ds vykok oklqnsokuUn ljLorh Hkh crkrk jgk gSA**¼isij ua0&572d] ist&3058½
 
"Shri Somnath Dwivedi i.e. defendant was salaried teacher in the said School from 10/08/1979 to 12/11/1989 which is financially aided by Government. Somnath Dwivedi, who is defendant in this case, had obtained salary for teaching between 10/08/1979 to 12/11/1989. Besides Somnath Dwivedi, defendant had been telling his name Vasudevanand Saraswati also."
 
**izfroknh mDr fo|ky; esa tc v/;kiu dk;Z dj jgs Fks] rc fnukad 18-12-1982 ls fnukad 30-12-1982 rd dqy 13 fnu rd izFke l= esa] fons'k ;k=k fd;s FksA --- f}rh; pj.k esa 5 Qjojh 1983 bZ0 ls 4 vizSy 1983 bZ0 rd fd;s FksA** ¼isij ua0&572d] ist&3059½
 
"When defendant was teaching in said Vidyalaya, he had traveled on foreign tour in first session for 13 days i.e. from 18/12/1982 to 30/12/1982. In the second phase, he had traveled from 5th February, 1983 to 4th April, 1983."
 
**bl okn esa oknh dh rjQ ls nkf[ky dkxt la[;k&538x@141 yxk;r 538x@149 gS] ftleas Jh lkseukFk f}osnh ¼izfroknh½ ds uke ds lkeus fo'ks"k dkye esa Jh lkseukFk f}osnh ds }kjk fnukad 13-11-1989 dks R;kxi= fn;k tkuk vkSj mDr frfFk ls mUgsa dk;ZeqDr fd;k tkuk fy[kk x;k gSA --- izfroknh lkseukFk f}osnh ¼orZeku uke oklqnsokuUn ljLorh½ mDr fo|ky; esa v/;kiu dk;Z ls tks osru izkIr djrs Fks] mldks ?kj x`gLFkh [kpZ gsrq viuh iRuh o vius firk o HkkbZ dks fn;k djrs FksA** ¼isij ua0&572d] ist&3061]3062½
 
"Paper no.-538G/141 to 538G/149, submitted by plaintiff of this case, are the copies of documents wherein against the name of Somnath Dwivedi in special column resignation tendered by Somnath on 13.11.1989 and his relieving from duty with effect from said date is mentioned. Defendant Somnath Dwivedi(present name- Vasudevanand Saraswati) used to give salary obtained from teaching in said Vidyalaya, to his wife, father and brother for expenditures of household."
 
(English Translation by Court) 728.		In cross examination also PW-33 Sri Raj Narain Tripathi has reiterated and affirmed his statement in examination in chief and there is nothing to discredit his statement. Relevant extract of statement of PW-33 in cross examination is reproduced as under: 729.		In fact, even defence witnesses DW 2, Sri Tej Narain Chaturvedi, DW 3 Swami Sri Vasudevanand Saraswati, DW 4, Sri Rang Nath Dubey, DW 8, Sri Santosh Kumar Shukla, DW 13, Sri Ram Abhilash Pandey DW 16, Sri Pandit Radhey Raman Pandey, DW 21, Sri Acharya Paqndit Vinod Kumar Tripathi, DW 23, Sri Vidya Bhushan Shukla, DW 28 Sri Srimohan Dubey and DW 33 Sri Daya Shankar Pandey, produced by appellant have also verified this fact that appellant was a Teacher in Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Alopibagh, Allahabad and had worked from 10.08.1979 to 13.11.1989. Relevant extract of statement of defence witnesses produced by appellant himself reads as under: 730.	DW 28 Sri Sri Mohan Dubey has also said that appellant's earlier name was Somnath Dwivedi and he got named "Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati" in 1983 when adopted 'Sanyasi'. It was explained to us that after adopting reclusion (Sanyas) in 1983, Sanyasi name was adopted by appellant as "Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati". 731.	The documentary evidence includes a letter dated 05.10.1989 (Paper no. 538C/125 i.e. Exhibit 131), issued by Instructor, Sanskrit Pathshala, U.P. Allahabad to Manager of Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Shankaracharya Ashram, Alopibagh, Allahabad communicating seniority of teachers working in the aforesaid institution and appellant's name Somnanth Dwivedi is shown at serial no. 3 therein. The contents of the said letter are reproduced as under: 732.	Another document is letter dated 11.09.1991 (Paper No. 538C/126 I.e. Exhibit 132), sent by Director of Education, U.P. Allahabad to Manager of aforesaid institution in which appellant was working, raising an objection with regard to payment of salary when teachers including appellant, Somnanth Dwivedi, (subsequently named as Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati) had gone on foreign visit. The said letter in fact is a show cause notice under Section 314 of Education Code, with respect to alleged irregularities in payment of salary when appellant was on foreign visit. Para 5 reads as under: 733.	Exact date of adopting reclusion (Sanyas) of appellant has not been stated but we find that it is an admitted case that from 10.08.1979 to 13.11.1989 appellant was working as a Teacher (Head of Department of Vedanta) in the aforesaid institution, which was in grant in aid and salary was paid from State Exchequer. In these circumstances, we enquired from Sri Manish Goel, learned counsel for appellant, when appellant adopted Sanyas and lived life of a Sanyasi, that too a Dandi Sanyasi, which is one of the foremost and basic qualification for installation as Shankaracharya. We did not receive any clear answer to this specific query, which we repeatedly made from Sri Manish Goel, learned counsel for appellant. The only defence taken by appellant in this regard is that there was no pleading regarding his alleged disqualification, therefore, this issue could not have been gone into by Court below and even this Court should not look into this aspect. With regard to pleadings, we have already discussed the matter in detail and rejected. 734.	As already pointed out, issue has been framed and parties have led evidence in which employment and period of employment of appellant has been given in detail. In this regard, own witnesses of appellant have given much details. 735.	We also find that appellant claims to have resigned on 13.11.1989 from said employment and on the very next day attended his installation ceremony as Shankaracharya without placing anything on record to show that said resignation was ever accepted by competent authority. In service jurisprudence an employee continues to be employed till his relationship is severed by employer in accordance with terms of service contract or if service is governed by statutory provisions, in accordance with procedure laid down thereunder. 736.	Facts as evident are that from 10.8.1979 onwards appellant was in continuous employment. He resigned on 13.11.1989 and on the very next date got installed as Shankaracharya. It is in the midst of above period, that is, in 1983, appellant claimed to have adopted reclusion (Sanyas). This claim of reclusion in 1983 is nothing but a fraud on the concept of 'Sanyas' by any stretch of imagination. As we have already held, unless a person is Dandi Sanyasi (a recluse having a stick), living a life of recluse, as propounded under customs, usage and traditions having force of law, he cannot become a Shankaracharya of Amanya Peeth. Therefore, we have no hesitation in holding that appellant was ineligible and unqualified for being installed as Shankaracharya and alleged installation of appellant on 14/15th November 1989 is patently a farce, illegal and nullity, being contrary to customs, usages, traditions and norms laid down in this regard which have force of law. We, therefore, uphold finding of Court below that the appellant was not eligible or competent to hold the seat of Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. Points for determination no. XIV and XV are answered against appellant. 737.		Next point for determination is whether Court below erred in law in not staying proceedings of suit in question in view of pendency of Original Suit no. 1A of 1974, under Section 10 CPC. 738. Section 10 CPC reads as under: 739.	Suit 1A of 1974 was filed by plaintiff, seeking declaration that he is validly installed Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth. This declaration he did not seek in rem but impleaded only three defendants in the said suit i.e. Ramji Tripathi (Swami Shantanand Saraswati), Dwarika Prasad Tripathi and Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati. Declaration, therefore, plaintiff sought in the aforesaid suit, was against aforesaid three persons only. One of them i.e. Swami Shantanand Saraswati was in the seat of Shankaracharya and rest two were nominees in 'Will' dated 18.12.1952. One of the conditions to attract section 10 CPC is that both suits should be between same parties or between the parties any one of which came litigating in the same title. Trial court rejected application of appellant seeking stay of proceedings in suit in question. We are also of the view that condition of section 10 CPC are not attracted in the case in hand. Therefore, there was no error on the part of Court below in not staying the proceedings of suit in question. Aforesaid question is, therefore, answered against the appellant. 740.	In view of above findings, impugned judgment and decree passed by Court below granting injunction against appellant, restraining from functioning as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath/Jotishpeeth has to be sustained but it would not result in recognition of right of plaintiff to function as Shankaracharya of said Peeth, particularly, in view of our finding that plaintiff was never installed as Shankaracharya at Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeh, validly, inasmuch as seat was not vacant in 1973. Consequently, an eventuality has cropped up when an important religious denomination would face a vaccum or state of vacancy where an Amnay Peeth like Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeh at Badrikasharam will have no suitable person to function as Shankaracharya. This situation cannot be allowed to continue. In larger public interest and in the interest of religious denomination as well as followers and devotees of the said Amnay Peeth, an appropriate direction is necessary to be given to fill in this gap. In our view, this Court while deciding appeal under Section 96 CPC, can exercise its power under Order 7 Rule 7 C.P.C . read with Section 151 C.P.C. by directing for holding congregation of Manishigan (scholars), learned men, Pandits etc. to follow the same procedure as was followed in 1941, to select a most suitable, qualified and eligible person and install him as Shankaracharya at the aforesaid Peeth within a period of three month and till then parties should maintain status quo as on day. 741.	Before parting with this judgment, we find it appropriate to place on record our serious concern and disapproval to the situation prevailing nowadays, where people holding such a high, pious and revered seat/status, like Shankaracharya of an Amanya Peeth, engage in a chain of litigation for decades together. In fact, appellant himself in his oral desposition as DW 3 has stated that disputes with regard to Shankaracharya, raising parallel claim also exist in Dwarika Peeth, Sharda Peeth and Govardhan Peeth too. Even DW 37, Sri Bhramchari Atmanand, and 39, Sri Shailendra Kumar Tiwari, have similarly deposed and the same is reproduced as under: 742.	This situation prevailing in such significant and pious places of religious faith and belief is highly deplorable and condemnable. Court can take judicial notice of the fact that people have deep rooted faith in religion and donate generously to religious endowments etc. This has resulted in amassing a huge wealth with such religious establishments and properties movable and immovable owned by these institutions is multiplying day by day. Some temples in the Country possess wealth to the extent comparable even with annual budget of Government of India and may exceed annual budgets of some Provinces. Wealth has brought in evil of disputes and litigation. That is what we are witnessing. In fact, a large number of unscrupulous religious establishment/institutions have cropped in. In many cases deceptive and mischievous people have intruded in these institutions, or have created their own institution(s) by usurping titles which are highly revered and respected and in whom people at large repose blind and deep faith. Such unscrupulous, dishonest and immoral persons or their institutions and their beneficiaries, creators and associates, are exploiting and deceiving innocent religious people and believers in Dharma. This has also resulted in creating a number of false, mischeiveous persons/entities entering the field of religion in the form of Preachers, Acharya, Kathavachaks etc. delivering religious discourses. Many of them having established their own Maths, suo motu conferring upon them title of Mathadhipati, Peethadhishwar, Jagatguru Shankaracharya and likewise, without any legal authority, imitating titles which they are not entitled to hold and use otherwise. Recent incidents in religious arena, unearthing evil deeds of so called Heads of various religious establishment and their accomplices, putting them behind bar, have shaken not only believers in Hindu Religion but the entire Nation. This state of affairs is quite shocking. Now time has come when common people and in particular all concerned religious denominations need immediate protection from such exploitation. State must intervene by making requisite provisions in this regard. We hope and trust that concerned State (including Central Government) shall look into this matter at the earliest and take appropriate steps to curtail and eliminate imitation, creation of imposters and tendency of litigation in religious endowments and also to regulate and control their activities with a view to prevent imitation, misrepresentation, fraud, cheating, usurpation etc. by unwanted and unauthorized persons. 743.	In the last but not the least, we shall be failing in our duty if we not put on record credit due to persons who made this voluminous work convenient for us to complete. Record of this appeal is running in several thousands of pages. Merited and diligent assistance of S/Sri Manish Goel, Permeshwar Nath Mishra, Shashi Nandan, Wajahat Hussain Khan and Anoop Trivedi have made the things quite convenient for us to scan entire record, citations etc. Court Masters S/Sri Pradeep Kumar Jaiswal, Sushil Kumar and Pawan Kumar Chaurasia have also put in their hardest labour in sifting of required record and place before us during hearing as well as preparation of judgment. Undaunted, relentless day and night work rendered by Private Secretaries, S/Sri Akhilesh Kumar Nayak, Awadhesh Kumar, Puneet Srivastava, Pravin Verma and Shubham Agrahari also deserve due appreciation and commendation. 744.	In this case judgment was reserved on 03.01.2017. However, sitting of one of us (Hon'ble Sudhir Agarwal, J.) at Lucknow was notified w.e.f. 09.01.2017 and same continued for three rosters. Therefore, preparation of judgment could be possible only whenever one of us (Hon'ble Sudhir Agarwal, J.) came to Allahabad for holding Court. Ultimately to complete the work having no other option one of us (Hon'ble Sudhir Agarwal, J.) went on leave for one week in August, 2017 and another week in September, 2017 and that is how work has been completed. Some delay occurred in completing judgment for reasons beyond our control. 
 
Summary of Judgment 745.	In view of our discussion, summary of our findings is as under: Result: 746.	Appeal is partly allowed. Impugned judgment of Trial Court in respect of issues we have recorded our findings otherwise is hereby set aside and substituted by our findings. We however uphold injunction granted against appellant restraining him from discharging functions as Shankaracharya. We further make it clear that this injunction shall not be construed so as to authorize plaintiff to function as Shankaracharya of Jyotirmath and Jyotishpeeth since he was never validly installed in the said position/status. B.D.M. VNS, learned Pandits, scholars and Shankaracharyas of other three Peethas are directed to proceed and follow the same procedure as was adopted in 1941, to select a suitable, eligible and qualified person for installation as Shankaracharya in Jyotirmath/Jyotishpeeth and complete this process within three months. 747.	In view of divided success we permit the parties to bear their own costs. 748.	A copy of directions and observations shall be communicated by Registry of this Court to Government of India as well as State of U.P. through Secretaries concerned. 	
 
Dated: 22.09.2017
 
Akn/AK/PS/Pravin
 

 
Enclosures
 

 
(1) Appendix-A
 
(2) Appendix-B
 
(3) Appendix-C
 
(4) Appendix-C
 
(5) Index of Citations
 
(6) Index-Subjectwise
 
Appendix-"A" Plaintiff's Witnesses 
 
Sl.No.
 
Witness No. 
 
Name of Witnesses
 
Examination in chief/affidavit under Order 18 Rule 4 CPC (PB=Paper Book)
 
Cross examination
 
(PB=Paper Book)
 

 

 

 
Volume
 
Pages
 
Volume
 
pages 1 PW 1
 
Sri Shyam Sundar Vajpai, Vaidya, Meerut, U.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2783-2790
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
55-67 2 PW 2
 
Challa Laxman Shastri Purohit, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2791-2794
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
68-75 3 PW 3
 
Sri Kameshwar Nath Mishra, Teacher, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2795-2800
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
76-85 4 PW 4
 
Sri Anand Bahadur Singh, Varanasi, 
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2801-2805
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
86-92 5 PW 5
 
Sri Harihar Prasad Pandey, Retired Teacher, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2806-2810
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
93-105 6 PW 6
 
Plaintiff Swami Sri Swaroopa Nand Saraswati, Disciple, Brahmleen Swami Brahamanand Ji Saraswati
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2811-2832
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
106-138 7 PW 7
 
Sri Ganga Prasad Mishra, Retired Employee, Allahabad
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2833-2836
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
139-146 8 PW 8
 
Sri Deep Narain Sharma, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2837-2844
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
147-149 9 PW 9
 
Sri Kailash Nath Dwivedi, Jalaun
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2845-2849
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
150-154 10 PW 10
 
Swami Sri Ishwaranand Tirth, Sishya, Pujya Swami Pragyanand Tirth IswarMath Mumuchh Bhawan, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2851-2855
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
155-170 11 PW 11
 
Sri Ashwin Bhai Purohit and Samaj Sewak, Dwarika, Gujarat
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2856-2863
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
171-181 12 PW 12
 
Sri T.N. Yagyanarayan, Simoga Karnatak
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2864-2872
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
182-189 13 PW 13
 
Sri Basant Anant Gadgil Sanskrit Bhasa Pracharak Wa Patrakar, Pune, Maharastha
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2873-2880
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
190-196 14 PW 14
 
Sri Janny Pellegreeni Italy/ Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2881-2886
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
197-202 15 PW 15
 
Sri Radhey Shyam Goswami, Jabalpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2887-2894
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
203-209 16 PW 16
 
Sri Somnath Tiwari, Allahabad
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2895-2897
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
210-212 17 PW 17
 
Swami Sri Vishuddhanand Saraswati, Sishya Parbrahma Swroop Brahmleen Swami Prakashanand Saraswati, Varanasi.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2898-2903
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
213-221 18 PW 18
 
Sri Dilawar Khan Narsinghpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2904-2907
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
222-229 19 PW 19
 
Sri Gauri Shankar Tiwari, Sivani, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2908-2911
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
230-236 20 PW 20
 
Sri C.V. Giridhar Shastri, Teacher Manglur, Karnatak, 
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2912-2924
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
237-250 21 PW 21
 
Sri Balram Pandey, Varanasi. Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2925-2928
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
251-257 22 PW 22
 
Bramchari Sri Subuddhanand Sishya Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Dharmopadeshak, Narsingpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2929-2941
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
258-277 23 PW 23
 
Sri Nijanand Brahamchari Sishya Pujypad Swami Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Sri Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Dharmopadeshak, Jabalpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2942-2976
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
278-300 24 PW 24
 
Agni Peethadheswar Acharya Mahamandleshwar Brahmarshi Sri Ram Krishnanand Sishya Swami Swroopanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Panch Agni Peeth Amarkantak, Anooppur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2977-2983
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
301-312 25 PW 25
 
Sri Kaiwalyanand Brahmchari Dharmopadeshak, Pashchim Singhbhumi, Jharkhand
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
2984-3015
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
313-338 26 PW 26
 
Sri Aacharya Jitendra, Viranasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3016-3019
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
339-348 27 PW 27
 
Brahmachari Sri Turiyanand Sishya Swami Swroopanand Saraswati, Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Badrika Ashram, Mankameshwar, Allahabad
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3020-3023
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
349-358 28 PW 28
 
Sri Shivkumar Tiwari, Jaunpur
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3024-3031
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
359-399 29 PW 29
 
Sri Girish Chandra Tiwari, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3032-3035
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
400-405 30 PW 30
 
Sri Ramesh Patel, Jabalpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3036-3039
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
406-407 31 PW 31
 
Sri Satya Narain Pandey, Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3040-3047
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
408-428 32 PW 32
 
Sri Nand Kishore Nautiyal Sampadak Nootan Savera, West Mumbai
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3048-3055
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
429-439 33 PW 33
 
Sri Raj Narain Tripathi, Teachar, Allahabad
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3056-3063
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
440-465 34 PW 34
 
Dr. Sri Ganesh Dutt Shastri Teachar Varanasi
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3064-3071
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
466-478 35 PW 35
 
Sri Rajendra Prasad Dwivedi Shastri, Purohit, Narsinghpur, M.P. 
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3072-3098
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
479-490 36 PW 36
 
Sri Kamla Pati Tiwari, Jabalpur, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3099-3102
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
491-495 37 PW 37
 
Sri Satya Narain, Photographer and Videographer, Simoga Karnataka
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3103-3106
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
496-502 38 PW 39
 
Badri Math Peethadeshwar Swami Hari Narayananand Ji Sansthapkak Mahamantri Bharat Sadhu Samaj Sishya Bramhaleen Dwarkinand Ji Maharaj, Dharmopadeshak, Patna, Bihar
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3107-3110
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
503-509 39 PW 40
 
Mahant Sri Prakash Puri, Guru Kapil Mahamuni Ji, Mahakal Mandir, Ujjain, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3111-3115
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
510-513 40 PW 41
 
Sri Shanker Dev Chaitanya Bramchari Sishya Swami Dr. Laxman Chaitnya Bramchari, Dewas, M.P.
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3116-3118
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
514-525 41 PW 42
 
Sri Madan Mohan Kakkar Handwriting and Fingerprint expert 
 
Vol. 6 of Respdt PB 
 
3119-3122
 
Vol. 1 of Respdt PB
 
526-589
 

 
Appendix-"B" Defendant's Witnesses 
 

 
Sl.No
 
Witne-sses no. Name of Witnesses
 
Examination in chief/affidavit under Order 18 Rule 4 CPC Cross examination
 

 

 

 
Volume
 
Pages
 
Volume
 
page 1 DW 1
 
Swami Sri Vimaldevashram, Shishya, Mahant Swami Kailash Bhusanashram Ji Maharaj, Machhali Bandar Math, Kashi Adhyaksh, Akhil Bhartiya Dandi Sanyasi, Prabandhan Samiti, 
 
Vol. II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
1-2
 

 

 

 
590-591
 

 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
 3-7
 

 

 

 
592-604 2 DW 2
 
Sri Tej Narain Chaturvedi, Varanasi
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
8-13
 

 

 

 
605-610
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
14-48
 

 

 

 
611-645 3 DW 3
 
Swami Sri Vasudevanand Saraswati, Shishya Sri Swami Shantanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj (defendant-appellant)
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
49-64
 

 

 

 
646-661
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
65-186
 

 

 
662-783 4 DW 4
 
Sri Rang Nath Dubey, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
187-196
 

 

 
784-793
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
197-263
 

 

 
794-860 5 DW 5
 
Sri Sriniwas Pathak, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
264-267
 

 

 
861-864
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
268-281
 

 

 
865-878 6 DW 6
 
Sri Arun Kumar Tripathi, Dharma Pracharak, Pratapgarh
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
282-284
 

 

 
879-881
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
285-300
 

 

 
882-897 7 DW 7
 
Sri Pt. Gokul Chandra Goswami, Mathura
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 
301-303
 

 

 
898-900
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
304-312
 

 

 
901-910 8 DW 8
 
Sri Santosh Kumar Shukla, Pratapgarh
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 
313-318
 

 

 
911-916
 
Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
319-341
 

 

 
917-932 9 DW 9
 
Sri Tilakdhari Shukla, Ambedkar Nagar
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
342-343 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
344-349 10 DW 10
 
Sri Vimal Prakash Srivastava, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
350-353 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
354-368 - 11 DW 11
 
Sri Radhey Shyam Malviya, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
369-370 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
371-380 - 12 DW 12
 
Sri Roy Vishwanath Singh Rai Bareli
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
381-383 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
384-392 - 13 DW 13
 
Sri Ram Abhilash Pandey, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
393-394 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
395-401 - 14 DW 14
 
Sri Purshottam Lal, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
402-402 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
403-411 - 15 DW 15
 
Sri Lal Mani Tiwari, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB - - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
412-428 - 16 DW 16
 
Sri Pandit Radhey Raman Pandey, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB - - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
429-430 - 17 DW 17
 
Sri Balkrishna Pandey, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB - - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
431-433 - 18 DW 18
 
Sri Hariram Chaurasiya, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
434-435 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
436-437 - 19 DW 19
 
Sri Laxmi Lal Shah, Chamoli, Uttarakhand
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
438-441 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
442-456 - 20 DW 20
 
Sri Bindu Ram Singla, Sangroor, Panjab
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB - - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
457-464 - 21 DW 21
 
Sri Achrya Pandit Vinod Kumar Tripathi, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
465-477 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
478-488 - 22 DW 22
 
Sri Indu Prakash Upadhya, Dasnam Sanyas Ashram, Bhupatiwala, Haridwar, Uttarakhand
 
Vol. II(1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 
489-491 - Vol.II (1) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
492-497 - 23 DW 23
 
Sri Vidya Bhushan Shukla, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB - - Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
498-503
 

 

 
933-938 24 DW 24
 
Sri Tiloki Nath Agrawal, Katni, M.P. 
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
504-506
 

 

 
939-941
 

 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
507-509
 

 

 
942-944 25 DW 25
 
Sri Satya Narayan Tripathi, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
510-511
 

 

 
945-947
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
512-514
 

 

 
948-951 26 DW 26
 
Sri Triveni Mishra, Allahabad, 
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
515-517
 

 

 
952-954
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
518-521
 

 

 
955-959 27 DW 27
 
Sri Rishi Prasad Sati Chamoli, Uttarakhand
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
522-526
 

 

 
960-964
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
527-539
 

 

 
965-978 28 DW 28
 
Sri Srimohan Dubey, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
540-542
 

 

 
979-981
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
543-557
 

 

 
982-996 29 DW 29
 
Sri Ramji Tripathi, Kanpur
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
558-562
 

 

 
997-1001
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
563-566
 

 

 

 
1002-1005 30 DW 30
 
Sri Omkar Nath Tripathi, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
567-570
 

 

 
1006-1010
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
571-592
 

 

 
1011-1047 31 DW 31
 
Urdhwramnaya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Narendranand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Sishya Sri Kashi Sumeru Peethadeshwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Bramhaleen Swami Shankaracharya Sarswati Ji Maharaj, Varanasi
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
593-604
 

 

 
1048-1059
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
605-652
 

 

 
1060-1117 32 DW 32
 
Sri Swami Yogeswaranand Giri Sishya Sri Mahant Siddheswar Giri Ji Maharaj Purva Mantri Sri Panchdashnaam Juna Akhara Bara Hanumanghat, Varanasi
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
653-655
 

 

 
1119-1121
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
656-665
 

 

 
1122-1131 33 DW 33
 
Sri Daya Shankar Pandey Dehradoon, Uttarakhand
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
666-669
 

 

 
1133-1136
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
670-691
 

 

 
1137-1158 34 DW 34
 
Sri Jagdish Prasad Misra, Lucknow 
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
692-694
 

 

 
1160-1162
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
695-698
 

 

 
1163-1166 35 DW 35
 
Sri Mahendra Narayan Dwivedi, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
699-701
 

 

 
1167-1169
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
702-706
 

 

 
1170-1174 36 DW 36
 
Anant Vibhushit Sri Takshak Tirthpeeth- adishwar Ravishankar Ji Maharaj Sishya Sri Takshak Tirth Peethadishwar Sri Ram Kumar Maharaj, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
707-712
 

 

 
1175-1180
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
713-717
 

 

 
1181-1185 37 DW 37
 
Sri Bhramchari Atmanand Sishya Jyotishpeethadhishwar Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 

 

 
718-741
 

 

 
1186-1209
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
742-760
 

 

 
1210-1228 38 DW 38
 
Sri Mahant Manoharpuri, Shisya Sabhapati Sri Mahant Mangalpuri Ji Maharaj Sri Panchdasnaam Juna Akhara Indore, M.P. 
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
761-764
 

 

 
1229-1232
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
765-771
 

 

 
1233-1239 39 DW 39
 
Sri Shailendra Kumar Tiwari, Amethi
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
772-775
 

 

 
1240-1243
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
776-780
 

 

 
1244-1248 40 DW 40
 
Sri Ram Niranjan Singh, Allahabad
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
781-784
 

 

 
1249-1252
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
785-792
 

 

 
1253-1260 41 DW 41
 
Sri Triveni Prasad Pandey, Rewa, M.P.
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
793-794
 

 

 
1261-1262
 
Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
795-797
 

 

 
1263-1265 42 DW 42
 
Sri Radhakrishna Gupta, Handwriting and Fingerprint expert 
 
Vol. II(2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
798-819 - Vol.II (2) appellant PB
 

 
Vol.2 of respdt PB
 
820-875
 

 
Appendix-"C" Plaintiff's Documentary Evidence
 
	 
 
S. No.
 
Details of documents 
 
Date
 
Paper No.
 
Exh-ibit No.
 
Volume 
 
Pages 1. 
 
Message of 4 Peethas' Conference, signed by their Shankaracharyas
 
01.05.1979
 
89-C 208 Vol.3 1268 2. 
 
Letter of Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Vidyateerth Shankaracharya, Sringeri Peeth.
 

 
90-C 209 Vol.3
 
1269-1270 3. 
 
Letter of Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Vidyateerth Shankaracharya, Sringeri Peeth.
 
23.08.1979
 
91-C 210 Vol.3 1271 4. 
 
Letter of Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Vidyateerth Shankaracharya, Sringeri Peeth.
 
17.11.1974
 
92-C 211 Vol.3 1272 5. 
 
Proclamation/declaration of Jagatguru Shankaracharya, Dwarka Sharda Peeth Sri Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth.
 
17.12.1973
 
93-C 212 Vol.3 1273 6. 
 
Suggestion letter (Sujhav Patra) of Shankaracharya Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth Maharaj no.2035 Shankaracharya, Sringeri Peeth.
 
Samvat 2035
 
94-C 213 Vol.3 1274 7. 
 
Letter of thanks, Rashtrapati Bhawan,
 
04.12.1973
 
95-C 214 Vol.3
 
1275-1284 8. 
 
Regret Letter from British High Commission, New Delhi. 17.09.1974
 
96-C 215 Vol.3
 
1285-1286 9. 
 
Proclamation/declaration by Sri Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Shastrarth Mahavidyalaya, Dashaswamedh, Varanasi
 

 
97-C 216 Vol.3 1287 10. 
 
Introduction letter, Raj Narain Shukla, Pradhan Mantri, Vidvat Parishad
 
12.09.1973
 
98-C 217 Vol.3 1277 11. 
 
Proclamation/declaration of Sri Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Niranjan Dev Teerth Maharaj, Govardhan Math, Puri
 

 
99-C 218 Vol.3 1278 12. 
 
Regret Letter by Pt. Nirikshan Pati Misra
 

 
100-C 219 Vol.3 1279 13. 
 
Application by Nirikshan Pati Misra, Adhyaksh, Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Varanasi
 
16.05.1982
 
101-C 220 Vol.3 1280 14. 
 
Application by Nirikshan Pati Misra, Adhyaksh, Sri Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Varanasi
 

 
102-C 221 Vol.3 1281 15. 
 
Authority Letter, Bharat Dharma Mahamandal
 
15.04.1980
 
103-C 222 Vol.3 1282 16. 
 
Prastavana Patra (Letter of preface/forward) by Bharat Dharam Mahamandal
 
17.05.1982
 
104-C 223 Vol.3 1283 17. 
 
Motion of protest by Bharat Dharma Mahamandal, Dr. Paramhans Misra
 
03.12.1983
 
105-C 224 Vol.3 1285 18. 
 
Objection by Dwarikeshananad Saraswati
 

 
106-C 225 Vol.3 1287 19. 
 
Opinion by M. Khatri, Advocate
 

 
107-C 226 20. 
 
Certificate by Bharat Dharma Mahamandal 
 

 
108-C 227 Vol. 3
 

 
Plff/ RspdtPB
 
1288-1297 21. 
 
Letter/Proposal of Vidvat Mandal, proposing election 
 
12.09.1973
 
109-C 228 Vol.3
 
1298-1301 22. 
 
Extract of newspaper (The Times of India)
 
24.08.1974
 
110-C 229 Vol.3 1302 23. 
 
Extract of newspaper (Nav Bharat Times)
 
19.09.1974
 
111-C 230 Vol.3 1303 24. 
 
Extract of Dakshin Bharat Paper, Sringeri Sammelan
 
03.05.1979
 
112-C 231 Vol.3 1304 25. 
 
Appreciation letter by B. Satya Narayan Reddy, Governor
 
12.11.1979
 
113-C 2 Vol.3 1305 26. 
 
Appreciation letter by Sri S. Narendra, Prime Minister's Advisor, (Information) 
 
21.11.1997
 
114-C 3 Vol.3 1306 27. 
 
Extract of newspaper "The Hindu" 28. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Nav Bharat Times" 29. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Danik Jagran" 30. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Punjab Kesari" 31. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Hindustan" 09.12.1998
 
115-C/5 232/5 Vol.3 1311 32. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Sandhya Times" 33. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Jansatta" 09.12.1998
 
115-C/7 232/7 Vol.3 1313 34. 
 
Photo copy of Extract of newspaper "JVG Times" 35. 
 
Extract of newspaper "The Hindu" 36. 
 
Extract of Magazine "Dharma Yug" pages 32 and 33
 
22-28th May 1977
 
116-C 233 Vol.3
 
1316-1324 37. 
 
Weekly Magazine "Saptahik Hindustan", page 8
 
20-26th May 1979
 
117-C/1 234 Vol.3
 
1325-1329 38. 
 
Weekly Magazine "Saptahik Hindustan", page 47
 
27th May to 2nd June 1979
 
117-C/2 235 Vol.3
 
1330-1332 39. 
 
Extract of magazine "Dharam Yug", page 47
 
20th to 26th April 1980
 
118-C/1 236 Vol.3
 
1333-1337 40. 
 
Extract of magazine "Dharam Yug", page 13
 
27th May to 2nd June 1979
 
118-C/2 237 Vol.3
 
1338-1343 41. 
 
Extract of magazine "Mani Deep Kadamb Kanan" 42. 
 
Extract of newspaper "Aaj" 28.08.1997
 
120-C 769 239 43. 
 
Extract of Smarika (Memoir) "Sri Matridham" 44. 
 
Extract of Smarika (Memoir)
 
19.06.1995
 
122-C 241 Vol.3
 
1358-1385 45. 
 
 Tatwalok, Volume No.2 
 

 
123-C 242 Vol.3
 
1386-1404 46. 
 
Smriti Edition, "Dharm Samrat" by Swami Karpatri
 

 
124-C 243 47. 
 
Photo of Former Prime Minister Narsimha Rao and Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj
 

 
125-C 244 Vol.3
 
1405-1406 48. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) Prasunanjali, Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi 
 

 
126-C 245 Vol.3
 
1407-1408 49. 
 
Subhabhinandan Patra ( Felicitation Letter)
 

 
127-C 246 Vol.3 1409 50. 
 
Kundalini Rahasya
 

 
128-C 247 51. 52. 
 
Card Amrit Mahotsava
 

 
130-C 249 53. 
 
Chaturmasya Samaroha Samiti, Kolkata
 

 
131-C 250 54. 132-C 251 55. 
 
Card of "Paduka Pujan", Maharshi Vyas Vidyalaya
 

 
133-C 252 56. 57. 58. 136-C 255 59. 
 
Judgment in Case No. 1320 of 1965, Swami Parmanand Vs. Ram Ji
 

 
137-C 256 60. 
 
Report of Head Copyist, Tax Assessment, Nagar Nigam, relating to mutation of the name of Swami Swaroopanand, pursuant to order of Commissioner
 
30.5.1989
 
140-C 4 Vol.3 1412 61. 
 
Extract of Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 95 (True Copy)
 

 
141-C 5 Vol. 3
 
1413-1418 62. 
 
Extract of Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 80 (True Copy) ------ 142-C 6 Vol. 3
 
1419-1421 63. 
 
Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 85 (True Copy)
 

 
143-C 7 Vol. 3
 
1422-1424 64. 
 
Extract of Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 90 (True Copy)
 

 
144-C 8 Vol. 3
 
1425-1430 65. 
 
Extract of Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 100 (True Copy) 
 

 
145-C 9 Vol. 3
 
1431-1433 66. 
 
Extract Register of Tax Assessment with respect to Sanitation Tax, Nagar Nigam Jabalpur, Ward Ram Manohar Lohia for the year l990-91 to 1995-1996 pertaining to House No. 733 to 754, Serial No. 105 (True Copy)
 

 
146-C 10 Vol. 3
 
1434-1436 67. 
 
Questionnaire regarding filing of appeal on 01.04.1997 against order of mutation dated 07.04.1990 with respect to House no. 13/15, Alopi Bagh, 178 in Appeal no.56/97 Jagat Guru Swami Swaroopananad vs. Swami Vasudevanand 
 

 
155-C 275 68. 
 
Certified copy of judgment in O.S. No. 3/54, Swami Parmanand and others Vs. Ram Ji Tripathi 
 
20.10.1962
 
158-C to 172C 11 Vol.5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2430-2782 69. 
 
Copy of will/Resignation letter written by Shantanand Saraswati, stating that Swami Vishnudevanand was installed/enthroned on the seat of Peeth 
 
28.04.1980
 
159-C 12 70. 
 
Power of attorney executed by Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati in favour of Rajendra Prasad Misra
 
26.03.1999
 
538C/ 10/198 160 71. 
 
Vrihadaranyakopnishad, Publisher Govind Kanan, Office of Gita Press Gorakhpur , pages 126-127
 

 
328-A 15 72. 
 
Dharma Sangh Meerut (second edition), Jagat Guru Gaurav 
 

 
329-A 16 73. 
 
Ishadyottar Shatopanishad, Publisher-Chaukhambha Vidya Bhawan Varanasi
 

 
330-A 17 74. 
 
Vrihadaranyakopnishad, by Anandgiri, Teeka Sanchalika with Shankar Bhashya 
 

 
331-A 18 75. 
 
The Vrihadaranya Upnishad published by Aditya Ashram
 

 
332-A 19 76. 
 
112 Upnishad and Their Philosophy by A.N. Bhattacharya (Parmal Publication, Delhi)
 

 
333-A 20 77. 
 
Mathamanya Setu and Mahanushasan (by Parmeshwar Nath Mishra)
 

 
334-A 21 78. 
 
The Greatness of Sringeri, Published by Sri Sharda Peetham, Sringeri
 

 
335-A 22 79. 
 
Sanmarg (Karpatri Abhinandan Ank), Editor Anand Bahadur Singh 
 
29.07.1976
 
336-A 27 80. 81. 
 
Hamare Gurudev
 

 
337A/2 24 82. 
 
Mathamnaya - Mahanushasan, Publisher Kashi Vidvat Parishad Nyas
 

 
338-A 1 83. 
 
Vishwanath Shubh Prabhatam, written by Mahamahopadhyay Pt. Kedar Nath Tripathi
 

 
339-A 257 84. 
 
Book "Jyotishpeeth Sanrakshak (Hamare Gurudev)" 85. 
 
Jyotishpeeth Ki Garima Par Prahar, publisher Swami Ramdeo Ashram, Chausathi Math, Kashi
 

 
341-A 25 86. 
 
Magazine "Vishwavidyalaya Varta", Sampoornanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi
 

 
342-A 26 87. 
 
Sandesh Vidyateerth
 
01.05.1979
 
343A/1 49 Vol.3
 

 

 
1512-1583 88. 
 
Advertisement C.B.Girdhar Shastri
 

 
343A/2 89. 
 
Letter of Sringeri Sharda Peeth
 
13.06.1977
 
343-A/A2 57 90. 
 
Letter sent by Vidyateerth
 
17.11.1974
 
343A/3 52 91. 
 
Letter sent by Vidyateerth
 
23.08.1979
 
343A/4 61 92. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) sent by Vidyateerth
 
Anand Chaitra Sudi Poornima Sthir Vasre
 
343A/5 58 93. 
 
Chatuspeeth Sammelan with Photographs
 

 
343A/6 258 94. 
 
Shubhansa, Swami Abhinav Sachidanand Teerth
 
Samvat 2035, Shravan Kirshna 30
 
343A/7 48 (7) 95. 
 
Letter of Swami Abhinav Sachidanand Teerth
 
11.01.1980
 
343A/8 to 343A/11 47 96. 
 
Proclamation/Declaration of Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth Shankaracharya Dwarika Peeth
 
7.12.1973
 
343A/12 50 97. 
 
Chha. Sam. Ja. Ank 16
 

 
343A/13 259 98. 
 
Letter by Swami Dwarikeshanand Saraswati
 

 
343A/14 123 99. 
 
Agenda No.19 of Sri Badrinath, Kedarnath Mandir Samiti, JoshiMath
 
27.10.2004
 
343A/15 130 100. 
 
Letter by Shankaracharya, Kashi Peethadheeshwar
 
17.09.1974
 
343A/16 46 101. 
 
Letter by Kedernath Tripathi, Upadhyaksh
 
Vikrami Samvat 2031 Bhaumwasar
 
343A/17 63 102. 
 
Letter of Sri Bharat Dharma Mahamandal 
 
15.04.1980
 
343A/18 124 103. 
 
Abhishek Kashi Vidwat Parishad, Pt. Nirikshan Pati Mishra
 

 
343A/19 29 104. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad 
 
16.05.1982
 
343A/20 to 343A/21 30 105. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad (RD.AD)
 
21.11.1983
 
343A/22 64 106. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Sri Rati Narayan Shastri
 
Vikram No. 2032
 
343A/23 31 107. 
 
Sri Bharat Dharm Mahamandal (RDAD)
 
03.12.1983
 
343A/24 to 343A/25 65 108. 
 
Agenda No. 250D, Sri Bharat Dharma Mahamandal
 
17.05.1982
 
343A/26 to 343A/27 125 109. 
 
Letter of declaration by Shankaracharya Govardhan Peeth Sri Niranjan Deo Teerth Ji Maharaj
 

 
343A/28 66 110. 
 
Certificate JoshiMath 
 
19.06.1975
 
343A/29 111. 
 
Letter of Chaturmanay Jagat Guru Sri Shankaracharya Pratinidhi Samit of Sringeri Math
 

 
343A/30 to 343A/31 60 112. 
 
Letter of Sri Ganga Sabha Haridwar
 
10.09.1973
 
343A/32 67 113. 
 
Letter of Sri Ganga Sabha Haridwar
 
11.09.1973
 
343A/33 68 114. 
 
Letter of Sri Didu Maheshwari Sewa Samiti
 
14.08.1956
 
343A/34 69 115. 
 
Letter of Divine Life Society 
 
02.04.1976
 
343A/35 70 116. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Varanasi
 

 
343A/36 261 117. 
 
Telegram
 

 
343A/37 & 38
 
71 & 72 118. 
 
Proposal for Election of Kashi Vidvat Parishad
 
12.09.1973
 
343A/39 to 343A/42 28 98 119. 
 
Extract of news paper Chaturth Peeth Sammelan
 

 
343A/43 262 120. 
 
Letter of Dr. Kedarnath Tripathi, President, Kashi Vidvat Parishad
 
31.03.1999
 
343A/44 & 343A/45 112 121. 
 
Important portion of Mathamnaya Mahanushasan, Varanasi by Dr. Kedarnath Tripathi
 
Vikram Samwat-2057
 
343A/46 343A/48 113 122. 
 
Letter of Ministry of Railways, written by K. Shanker
 
03.03.1994
 
343A/49 263 123. 
 
Pattabhishek (coronation/installation)
 
18.09.1974
 
343A/50 264 124. 
 
Letter of Ram Nath Kalia Abhinandan Samiti
 
13.11.1980
 
343A/51 74 125. 
 
Letter of Challa Laxman Shastri, Upadhyaksh, Kashi Vidvat Parishad
 
07.06.2005
 
343A/52
 
to
 
343A/53 75 126. 
 
Letter of Kedar Nath Tripathi, Kashi Vidvat Parishad
 
09.06.2005
 
343A/54 76 127. 
 
Letter of SSP, Varanasi
 
05.09.2002
 
343A/55 265 128. 
 
Letter of Finance Minster, Col. Ajay Mushran
 
06.09.2002
 
343A/56 266 129. 
 
Letter of Ganga Aushadhi Kendra, Varanasi
 
08.06.2005
 
343A/57 77 130. 
 
Letter of Chaturmanay Jagatguru Shri Shankaracharya Pratinidhi Samiti
 
08.01.1982
 
343A/58 & 343A/59 59 131. 
 
Letter of Ashtottarshat Shreemad Bhagwat Saptah Parayan Evam Vishnu Mahayagya Samiti, Rajasthan
 
01.11.1981
 
343A/60 267 132. 
 
Letter of Shree Jyotirmath Badrikashram, Himalaya
 
17.09.1995
 
343A/61 268 133. 
 
Letter of Pt. Joshan Ram, Secretary, Akhil Bhartiya Pandit Mahaparishad
 

 
343A/62 62 134. 
 
Letter of Pt. Raj Narayan Shastri, Mahamantri (General Secretary) Kashi Vidvat Parishad 
 

 
343A/63 32 135. 
 
Letter of Jagat Guru Ramanandacharya Swami Haryacharya Ji Mahraj
 
09.09.2002
 
343A/64 78 136. 
 
Letter of Krishnapal Singh, Governor of Gujarat
 
18.09.1996
 
343A/65 269 137. 
 
Letter of Chaturth Peeth Sammelan with signature and photograph 
 

 
343A/66 79 138. 
 
Letter sent by Government to plaintiff 
 
04.02.2004
 
343A/67
 
79A 139. 
 
Letter of Arvind Singh Mewar, The Palace Udaipur, Rajasthan
 
03.07.2000
 
343A/68 270 140. 
 
Letter of Col. Ajay Mushran, Finance Minister
 
03.09.1997
 
343A/69 271 141. 
 
Letter of Sri Krishnapal Singh, Governor, Gujarat
 
01.09.1997
 
343A/70 272 142. 
 
Letter of Railway Board
 
07.03.1994
 
343A/71 273 143. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad 
 
12.09.1973
 
343A/72 165 144. 
 
Letter of Kashi Vidvat Parishad by Raj Narayan Shukla
 
12.09.1973
 
343A/73 33 145. 
 
Letter of Bharat Dharma Mahamandal
 
27.07.1975
 
343A/74 126 146. 
 
Programme of Bharat Dharm Mahamandal
 

 
F-21 127 147. 
 
Letter of Sri Bal Krishna Misra, Secretary,Bharat Dharm Mahamandal
 

 
F-1 to F-10 128 148. 
 
Minutes of meeting of Shri Badrinath Kedar Nath Mandir Samiti
 
27.10.2004
 
343A/75 274 Vol.3
 

 

 

 
of Plff./ RespdtPB
 

 

 
1584-1587 149. 
 
Letter of Shri Dharma Sangh Shiksha Mandal
 
10.10.1973
 
343A/76 80 150. 
 
Letter of Shri Manav Kalyan Ashram, Haridwar
 
16.07.2005
 
343A/77 81 151. 
 
Letter from Manav Kalyan Ashram, Haridwar
 
18.08.2005
 
343A/78 82 152. 
 
Abhinandan Patra Padnaam Swami Sawroopanand Saraswati
 
V.S. 2032
 
Varanasi
 
344C/B2-B3 166 Vol.3 1602 153. 
 
Letter from Bhadaini, Kashi
 
02.10.1975
 
344C/B6 44 154. 
 
Swagat Abhinandan
 
V.S. 2032
 

 
344C/B7 167 155. 
 
Ujjain Mahakal Mandir
 
V.S. 2032
 
Varanasi
 
344C/B7 168 156. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
26.11.2001
 
344C/8 276 Vol.3 1588 157. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Ashwin Krishna 11, Budh, Vikram Samvat 2032, Varanasi
 
344C/B-8-9 99 Vol.3
 
1589-1590 158. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Ashwin Krishna 15, Samvat 2032, 
 
344C/ 11B 277 Vol.3 1591 159. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by devotees of Kashi
 
28.01.1974
 
344C/12B 55 Vol.3 1592 160. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Tulsighat, Bhadauni
 
02.10.1975
 
344C/13B 278 Vol.3 1593 161. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Ashwin Krishna 11, Budh Vikram Samvat 2032, Varanasi
 
344C/14B 26 Vol.3 1594 162. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Ashwin Krishna 11, Budh Vikram Samvat 2032, Varanasi
 
344C/15B 279 Vol.3 1595 163. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Baba Bitthalnath Mahadeo Raipur, 
 
21.10.1975
 
344C/16B 280 Vol.3 1596 164. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
BhadrapadShukla 3, (Hartalika Vrat) Siddharthi Sant
 
344C/17B 281 Vol.3 1597 165. 
 
Abhinandan Patra(Felicitation Letter) 
 
25.05.1974
 
344C/18B 83 Vol.3 1598 166. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Dilawar Khan, Up-Sarpanch 
 
28.01.1974
 
344C/19B 282 Vol.3 1599 167. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
08.01.1974
 
344C/20B 283 Vol.3 1600 168. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
01.01.1974
 
344C/21B 284 Vol.3 1601 169. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
16.03.1974
 
344C/22B 285 Vol.3 1602 170. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Tulsi Ram Bharadwarj 
 

 
344C/23B 286 Vol.3 1603 171. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sri Satyanarayan Shastri, Sri Badrinath Dham
 
Vijaya-dashmi, Samvat 2042
 
344C/24B 287 Vol.3 1604 172. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by President Member, Nagarpalika, Garhwal
 
25.05.1974
 
344C/25B 288 Vol.3 1605 173. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Shankaracharya Ashram, Shakambhari, Saharanpur 
 
29.11.1973
 
344C/26B 289 Vol.3 1606 174. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
07.12.1973
 
344C/27B 290 Vol.3 1607 175. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Smt. Parvati Pandey
 
18.09.1973/18.4.1976
 
344C/28B 100 Vol.3 1608 176. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by residents of village Gawai 
 
28.01.1974
 
344C/29B 101 Vol.3 1609 177. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Uma Shankar Gupta, Mayor, Nagar Nigam, Bhopal
 

 
344C/30B 291 Vol.3 1610 178. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Ashwin Krishna 11, Budh Vikram Samvat 2032, 
 
344C/31B 292 Vol.3 1611 179. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
16.03.1978
 
344C/32B 102 Vol.3 1612 180. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
 by Chairman, Member Nagarpalika Garhwal
 
20.09.1984
 
344C/33B 293 181. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Jyesth Krishna Navami Ravivasare Vikram Samwat 2057
 
344C/34B 294 182. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Geeta Bhawan Samiti, Nainital
 
18.04.1976
 
344C/B 35 103 183. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 

 
344C/B-35 103 184. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Ram Leela Samiti
 
18.04.1976
 
344C/36B 295 185. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Magh Shukla Panchami Chandrwar Vikram Samwat 2030 
 
344C/37B 296 Vol.3 1607 186. 
 
Abhinanda Patra (Felicitation Letter) by President Member, Nagarpalika Evam All regional religious people, Garhwal
 
25.05.1974
 
344C/38B 292 Vol.3 1605 187. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
16.03.1974
 
344C/39B 298 Vol.3 1602 188. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Adhyatmik Utthan Mandal, Jabalpur 
 
02.01.1974
 
344C/40B 104 189. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 
28.11.1975
 
344C/B-40 104 190. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Tulsiram Bharadwaj
 

 
344C/41B 299 191. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Bhrahmachari Markendey Shastri Dharm Sangh Siksha Mandal, Varanasi
 
18.04.1976
 
344C/42B 300 192. 
 
Subhabhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Samvat 2030
 
344C/43B 105 193. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
Samwat 2030 Paush Purnima
 
344C/44B 301 194. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Dwarika Das Maheshwari, President, Galla Vyapari Sangh
 

 
344C/45B 302 195. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sampurnanand Sanskrit University 
 
06.10.1993
 
344C/46 303 196. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Gramin Janta Koria Patti, District Sahrasa (Bihar
 
28.11.1975
 
344C/47B 106 197. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 
16.03.1974
 
344C/B-47 106 198. 
 
Pranamaujalaya 
 
Ashvin Krishna 11 Budh 2032
 
344C/48B
 
304 to 199. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by M.P. Vidvat Parishad
 
Shravan Shukla Ekadashi Vikram Samwat 2039
 
344C/49B 107 200. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 
Vikram Samvat 2030
 
344C/B-49 107 201. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Magh Krishna Ekadashi Samvat 2030
 
344C/50B 304 202. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Kaushal Kishore Sharma, President, Akhil Bhartiya Brahman Mahasabha
 

 
344C/51B 304 203. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
21.08.2001
 
344C/52B 305 204. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 

 
344C/B53 85 205. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Duli Chand
 
16.03.1974
 
344C/54B 306 206. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Magh Krishna Ekadashi, 
 
Vikram Samvat 2030 
 
344C/55B and 344C/56B 307 207. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Teerth Raj Prayag
 
18.01.1978
 
344C/B-57 54 208. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
09.01.1974
 
344C/59B 308 209. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, Karnprayag
 

 
344C/60B 309 210. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 

 
344C/61B 310 211. 
 
Prashasti Patra 
 
25.05.1974
 
344C/B62 84 212. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by residents of 13 villages
 

 
26.05.1974
 
344C/B63 96 213. 
 
Managing Commitee, Laxmi Narain Mandir, Chandrapuri, Chamoli. 26.05.1974
 
344C/64B 97 214. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
24.02.1937
 
344C/65B 311 215. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
29.11.1984
 
344C/66B 312 216. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
Bhadra Shukla Chaturdasi
 
344C/67B 313 217. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by all citizens and Vidvat Mandal of Kashipur
 
18.04.1974
 
344C/68B 108 218. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
25.05.1994
 
344C/69B 108 219. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 
03.01.1981
 
344C/B-68-69 108 220. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 
26.05.1974
 
344C/B-70-71 109 221. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Mahant Ramchandra Vaishnav Evam Management Committee, Laxmi Narayan Mandir, Chandanpuri, Chamoli
 
26.05.1974
 
344C/71B 109 222. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) Jyotirpeeth , Uttarakhand
 
29.05.1974
 
344C/72B 110 223. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) Mahant Dwaraka Das
 
14.11.1975
 
344C/73B 110 224. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 
15.12.1974
 
344C/B-72-73 110 225. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Vishwanath Shukla Shastri, Principal Sanskrit University, District Jalaun
 

 
344C/74B 314 226. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Chotey Lal President, Swagat Samiti Mandala, M.P.
 
03.01.1981
 
344C/75B and 344C/76 314 315 227. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Ramsundar Shukla, Lecturer, Shi. Pra. Ucchatar Madhyamik Vidyalaya, Sidhesh 12/75 344C/77 and 
 
344C/78 315 228. 
 
Abhinandan Patra
 

 
344C/B-78/79 111 229. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by residents of Jalaun
 

 
344C/B-80 122 230. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sri Dojoti Bala Ji Dham, Fatehpuram, Sekhawati, Seekar, Rajstahanam
 
28.10.1993
 
 347C/1 316 Vol.3
 

 
Plff./ RspdtPB 1614 231. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Jagatguru Shankaracharya in Abhinandan Samaroh Samiti, Ghazipur
 
05.09.1998
 
347C/2 114 Vol.3 1615 232. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by SriMath Kashi 
 
10.09.1996
 
347C/3 114 Vol.3 1616 233. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi
 
28.08.1994
 
347C/4 to 347C/5 34 Vol.3
 
1617-1618 234. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Saleeka Peethadheeshwar, New Delhi
 
28.05.2000
 
347C/6 to 347C/7 317 Vol.3
 
1619-1620 235. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by all Members of Sanskardhani, Srimat Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swagat Samiti, Jabalpur
 
02.01.1974
 
347C/8 to 347C/9 318 Vol.3
 
1621-1622 236. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Jagatguru Shankaracharya Amrit Mahotsav Evam Chaturmas Samorah Samiti Evam all devotees. 
 

 
347C/10 to 347C/11 115 Vol.3
 
1623-1624 237. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Akhil Bhartiya Adhayatmolyan Mandalasya
 
19.12.1994
 
347C/12 to 347C/13 116 Vol.3
 
1625-1626 238. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sri Digvijay Singh, Chief Minister, M.P., Chaturmas Samoraha Samiti
 
05.09.1997
 
347C/14 to 347C/15 41 Vol.3
 
1627-1628 239. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
19.09.1996
 
347C/16 to 347C/17 42 Vol.3
 
1629-1630 240. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) alongwith Photoghaphs
 
Magh Krishna 2 Guro, 2030
 
347C/18 to 347C/19 117 Vol.3
 
1631-1645 241. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 
16.09.2006
 
347C/20 to 347C/21 319 242. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Amrit Mahotsva Samiti, Nagpuram 
 
11.07.1999
 
347C/22 to 347C/23 320 243. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Jagatguru Shankaracharya Chaturmas Swagat Samiti, Varanasi
 
21.08.2001
 
347C/24 to 347C/25 43 244. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Divya Gyan Mahotsav Gujarat
 
24.05.1999
 
347C/26 to 347C/27 321 245. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by residents of District Ghazipur
 
03.11.1996
 
347C/28 to 347C/29 322 246. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Teachers and Employees Family Smapoornanad Sanskrit University and their families 
 
Bhadra Krishna Ashtmi 2053
 
347C/30 & 347C/31 35 247. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Jagat Guru Satkar Samiti, Gujarat
 
26.08.1979
 
347C/32 & 347C/33 323 Vol.3
 

 
Plff./ Rspdt
 
PB 1646 248. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Bhal Chandra Pandey, B-4119, Hanuman Ghat, Varanasi
 
23.08.1998
 
347C/34 36 Vol.3 1647 249. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Giriraj Goswami (Anant), Gokul, Mathura.
 
24.05.1999
 
347C/35 324 Vol.3 1648 250. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Duli Chandra Rathore and family, Jhansi Road, Sagar
 
16.03.1974
 
347C/36 325 Vol.3 1649 251. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Rajshree Mahant Vaishnav Das and Religious people of Chhattisgarh
 
18.03.1974
 
347C/37 326 Vol.3 1650 252. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Residents of Ranchi
 

 
347C/38 to 347C/39 118 Vol.3
 
1651-1652 253. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Chancellor Punjab Singh
 
18.09.2005
 
347C/40 37 Vol.3 1653 254. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Devotees of Mirzapur Vindhya Region
 
03.07.2001
 
347C/41 327 Vol.3 1654 255. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by family members of Mazdoor Jyoti
 
26.08.2001
 
347C/42 38 Vol.3 1655 256. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Dr.Jai Prakash, Vdodara
 
05.03.1997
 
347C/43 328 Vol.3 1656 257. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) on 77th Birthday of Swami Sri Swaroopanand Saraswati Maharaj Ji
 
01.09.2000
 
347C/44 119 Vol.3 1657 258. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Manak Patel, Dr. Harbansh Singh, President, Janamsthali Nyas Gurudham, Sivani, M.P.
 

 
347C/45 329 Vol.3 1658 259. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Tara Bajoriaya, Kolkata
 

 
347C/46 120 Vol.3 1659 260. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Swatantrata Sangram Senani Sri Kanya Kubj Brahman Sabha, Kashi
 

 
347C/47 330 Vol.3 1660 261. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Yug Bhartiya Manch, M.P.
 

 
347C/48 331 Vol.3 1661 262. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sri Ramdeo Bhakt Mandal
 
30.08.1998
 
347C/49 121 Vol.3 1662 263. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Yuva Bhartiya Manch, Moti Lal Nehru Palace, New Delhi,
 

 
347C/50 40 Vol.3 1663 264. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sita Ram Youth Samiti, Muhammdabad, District Ghazipur
 

 
347C/51 332 Vol.3 1664 265. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Lions Club, Varanasi
 
29.09.1996
 
347C/52 and 347C/53 39 Vol.3
 
1665-1666 266. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Dilawar Khan, President, Islamia Qaumi Ekta Commmittee, District Narsinghpur, M.P.
 
08.09.1994
 
347C/54 and 347C/55 333 Vol.3
 
1667-1667 267. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Sri Dham Goregaon, Narsinghpur
 
05.09.1997
 
347C/56 and 347C/57 334 Vol.3 1668 268. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter), Narvati, Kashi 
 
Ashwin Shu.-6-2055
 
347C/58 and 347C/59 335 269. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter), by Pandit Jagmohan Mishra, Hathnapur, Garhva Sivani, M.P.
 
Ashwin Shu.-6-2055
 
347C/60 and 347C/61 56 270. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter), All members of Maihar Gram Adhyatmik Utthan Mandal 
 

 
347C/62 336 271. 
 
Declaration and nomination of Swami Swroopanand Ji Maharaj as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar by Vedic Brahmins in Dharma Sangh Shiksha Mandal Campus, Kashi following performance of Jalabhishek/Abhishek in different methods by Kashi's Swami Maheshwaranand Saraswati.
 

 
 349C/1 337 Vol.3 1670 272. 
 
Delivery of heart touching welcome speech, welcoming Present Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Nischalanand Ji Maharaj, Jyotirshpeethdhishwar of Puri Govardhan Peeth, by present Shankaracharya Evam Jagatguru Ramanandacharya Swami Ram Nareshacharya Ji Maharaj along with Jyotishpeethadheeshwsar and Shankaracharaya Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj in Akhil Bhartiya Virat Sadhu Mahatma Sammelan , Puri 
 

 
349C/2 338 Vol.3 1671 273. 
 
Offering/covering with Patta (coronation) of Jyotishpeeth- -adheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj by Acharya Challaram Shastri, representative, Shankaracharya of Sringeri, consequent upon the Jyothishpeeth-adhirohan and Pattabhishek ceremony.
 

 
349C/3 339 Vol.3 1672 274. 
 
Declaration by Swami Karpatri Ji Mahraj and Maheshwaranand Saraswati Ji, announcing name of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Mahraj as Shankaracharya of Jyotishpeeth and His Jalabhishek (anointment) amidst the chanting of Vedic hymns.
 

 
349C/4 340 Vol.3 1673 275. 
 
Swami Swaroopanand Ji Mahraj presiding over Kashi Vidvat Sabha, as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar and thereafter going out after participating in the aforesaid Vidvat Sabha 
 

 
349C/5 341 Vol.3 1674 276. 
 
Photograph in Badrinath, exhibiting Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Ja. Sh. Swami Shankaracharya, Mata Lalita Amba, Founder of Manav Kalyan Ashram and photograph of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati on the occasion of Kalyananand Swarn Jayanti Mahotsava.
 

 
349C/6 342 Vol.3 1675 277. 
 
Consulting J.Sha. Swaroopa Nand Ji , President, Ram Janma Bhoomi Nyas with Abhinandan Guru Shankar Ved Chaitanya Brahmchari, President, Akhil Bhartiya Dharam angh
 

 
349C/7 343 278. 
 
Karpatri Ji Mahraj with Ja. Sha. Swaroopanand, Jyotishpeethadhishwar with his Guru Maheshwaranand Ji
 

 
349C/8 344 Vol.3 1676 279. 
 
The then Shankaracharya of the then Dwarka Peeth Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth Ji Maharaj, enthroning Swaroopanand Saraswati on Jyotishpeeth holding his hands, after ceremony of Abhishek and Peethadhirohan
 

 
349C/9 345 Vol.3 1677 280. 
 
Felicitation of Ja. Sha. by Dwarika Peethadheesh Shankaracharya Ji Maharaj after the coronation; worshipping 'Paduka' of Ja. Sha. by Col. Ajay Mushran, Finance Minister of Madhya Pradesh, (on right) Central Minister Vidyacharan Shukla, right, Home Minister Katare, Forest and Transport Minister Haribansh Singh.
 

 
349C/10 346 Vol.3 1678 281. 
 
Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Shri Shivraj Singh Chauhan, worshiping Poojyapaad, Vishwa Hindu Parishad's President Shri Ashok Singhal having discussion with Shankaracharya
 

 
349C/11 347 Vol.3 1679 282. 
 
Abhishek of Shankaracharya of Puri Shankaracharya of Dwarka Swaroopanand at Jyotishpeeth, and below enthroned Jyotishpeeth Swaroopanand and Shankaracharya of Jagannath Puri
 

 
349C/12 348 Vol.3 1680 283. 
 
Pattabhishek (investiture/coronation/ installation) of Swaroopanand by Shankaracharyas of Puri and Dwarika
 
a scene of aforesaid Abhishek. 349C/13 349 Vol.3 1681 284. 
 
Govindacharya and National Convener of Ram Janam Bhoomi Punruddhar Samiti and all its staff, attending a Programmeme with Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj and performing Paduka-poojan. Peethadheeshwar Vishwevra Teerth Ji felicitating Nepal Naresh Ji Gyanendra, Queen and Swami Swaroopanand Ji. Swami Swaroopanand Ji 
 

 
349C/14 350 Vol.3 1682 285. 
 
Mandal Mishra, Kulpati Sampoornanand garlanding Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj, Parmeshwar Nath Mishra handing treatise to Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj
 

 
349C/15 351 Vol.3 1683 286. 
 
Abhinav Sachichidanand Teerth Ji attending the chatuspeeth Sammelan held at Shrigeripeeth along with Shankaracharya of Shrigeripeeth and the then Shankaracharya of Jyotispeeth.
 

 
349C/16 352 Vol.3 1684 287. 
 
Swami Bharti Teerth and Swami Swaroopanand Ji on the same podium
 

 
349C/17 353 Vol.3 1685 288. 
 
One more photo showing Govindacharya and Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Ji with the present Shankaracharya of Shringeri. Punya Shobhayatra in Prayag Mela and the Prashasak of Shringeripeeth Shri V.R. Gaurishankar, receiving orders from Jyotishpeethadheeshwar at Dwarika Math. 
 

 
349C/18 354 Vol.3 1686 289. 
 
Acharyas of Juna Akhara Mandaleshwar Swami Awadheshanand Ji Maharaj with Ja. Sha. Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj. Garlanding of Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Ji by the aforesaid Swami Awadheshanand Ji Maharaj, and a Minister from Chhatisgarh State Shri Ravindra Chaubey, welcoming Ja. Sha. Swami Swaroopanand Ji
 

 
349C/19 355 Vol.3 1687 290. 
 
In a Programmeme, Puri Shankaracharya, Agni Peethadheeshwar, President of Bharat Sadhu Samaj and Kashi Peethedheeshwar and others with Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj
 
The then Shankaracharya of Shringeri, Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj
 

 
349C/20 356 Vol.3 1688 291. 
 
The then Shringeri Peethadheeshwar Jagadguru Swami Abhinav Vidya Teerth Ji performing Abhishek of Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Ja. Sha. Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj as Shankaracharya at Dwarika Peeth.
 

 
349C/21 357 Vol.3 1689 292. 
 
In one Programmeme, Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swaroopanand Ji with the Shankaracharya of Shringeri; glimpse of temple and informal discussion with the Shankaracharya of Shringeri Swami Bharti Ji, renowned Vedanta scholar and with members and the Vice Chancellor of S.S.V.; Swaroop Mishra receiving blessings from Jyotishpeethadheeshwar; famous Bhajan Singer Manoj Tiwari in service of Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj
 

 
349C/22 358 Vol.3 1690 293. 
 
Madhwacharya Swami Vishweshar Teerth Ji Maharaj sitting in close proximity to Shringeri Shankaracharya, Central Minister Shri Vidyadhar Shukla and Kamalnath felicitating Ja. Sha. Swami Swaroopanand.
 

 
349C/23 359 Vol.3 1691 294. 
 
Acharaya Abhinandan of Jyotishpeethadheeshwar and Shringeri Peethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Ji Maharaj (Swaroopanand Ji) by Shri Ramanandacharya
 

 
349C/24 360 Vol.3 1692 295. 
 
Another scene of the aforesaid, Kashi Peethadheeshwar, present Shankaracharya Ji of Puri Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj and Jagad Guru Ramanandacharya Maharaj.
 

 
349C/25 361 Vol.3 1693 296. 
 
Shankaracharya Ji of Puri and Jyotishpeeth, in a massive saints' conference, Jyotishpeethadheeshwar and other devotees. Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Ja. Sha. Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj in discussion with the present Shankaracharya of Puri.
 

 
349C/26 362 Vol.3 1694 297. 
 
In one Programmeme, present Shankaracharya of Puri sharing podium with Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Ji Maharaj and Ja. Sha. Madhwacharya Swami Vishwesh Teerth, president of the council with Mahant Gyandas Maaharaj Ji, welcome of Maharaj Ji by freedom fighters.
 

 
349C/27 363 Vol.3 1695 298. 
 
President Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma with Maharaj Ji, 
 

 
349C/28 364 Vol.3 1696 299. 
 
Sonia Gandhi with Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj
 

 
349C/29 365 Vol.3 1697 300. 
 
Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj with Shankaracharya of Puri
 

 
349C/30 366 Vol.3 1698 301. 
 
Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj with Nepal Nath
 

 
349C/31 367 Vol.3 1699 302. 
 
Mothi Lal Ghera worshipping Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj 
 

 
349C/32 368 Vol.3 1700 303. 
 
Sri Suresh Ram, Kendriya Mantri, Sri Ram Janam Bhumi. 349C/33 369 Vol.3 1701 304. 
 
Prime Minister and Central Government Minister, Vice President Shankar Dayal Sharma with Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj 
 

 
349C/34 370 Vol.3 1702 305. 
 
Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj with Sri Mandan Mishra
 

 
349C/35
 
349C/36
 
349C/37 371 372 373 Vol.3 1703 306. 
 
Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj with Sri Ratnakar Pandey
 

 
349C/38
 
349C/39 374 375 Vol.3 1704 307. 
 
Swami Swaroopa Nand Ji Maharaj with Vice Chancellor Smapoornanand Sanskrit Vishwavidlaya 
 

 
349C/40 376 Vol.3
 
1705-1709 308. 
 
Welcome in Smapoornanand Vishwavidyalaya
 

 
349C/41 377 Vol.3 1710 309. 
 
Welcome of Maharaj Ji with Freedom Fighters
 

 
349C/42 378 Vol.3 1711 310. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar being welcomed by the Mandaladhyaksh of Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Sewa Mandal Shri Ram Kishore Sharma
 

 
349C/43 379 Vol.3 1712 311. 
 
In both the photos above and below, Hon'ble Prime Minister P.V. Narsimha Rao with Maharaj Ji
 

 
349C/44 380 Vol.3 1713 312. 
 
Panchagni Akhara Mahant Gopalanand with Maharaj Ji, President of Dharam Sangh Shankar Dev Ji with Maharaj Ji.
 

 
349C/45 381 Vol.3 1714 313. 
 
Photo with Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Digvijay Singh
 

 
349C/46 382 Vol.3 1715 314. 
 
Photo with Gorakhpur University's Vice Chancellor R.K. Mishra and Ambwani Ji of Reliance Group 
 

 
349C/47 383 Vol.3 1716 315. 
 
Maharaj Ji on the occasion of Sampoornanand Foundation Day, Ajeet Jogi with Maharaj Ji, 
 

 
349C/48 384 Vol.3 1717 316. 
 
Photo with Kashi Naresh and Shringeri Peeth's Mudra Adhikari Pawan Shastri
 

 
349C/49 385 Vol.3 1718 317. 
 
Photo with the saints from Ayodhya in a massive saints' mega conference
 

 
349C/50 386 Vol.3 1719 318. 
 
Photo with Shri Vedanti Ji, Asht Siddhi Hanuman Mandir, Awadh Praant Udasin
 

 
349C/51 387 Vol.3 1720 319. 
 
Shri Vishram Singh and Ashok Bhadoria with Uttaranchal University
 

 
349C/52 388 Vol.3 1721 320. 
 
Photo with Kashi scholars, and artists
 

 
349C/53 389 Vol.3 1722 321. 
 
Teejan Bai with Radheyshyam Khemka
 

 
349C/54 390 Vol.3 1723 322. 
 
Maharaj Ji with with Prof. Shiv Ji Upahdhyay of Kashi Vidwat Parishad with learned persons of Kashi. 
 

 
349C/55 391 Vol.3 1724 323. 
 
 Mahant Virbhadra of Sankat Mochan with the members of the Vidwat Parishad on the occasion of Janmotsava,
 

 
349C/56 392 Vol.3 1725 324. 
 
Welcome of the governor of Chhatisgarh by Rajendra Mishra. 349C/57 393 Vol.3 1726 325. 
 
Maharaj Ji along with Agni Peethadhishwar Krishnanand Swami Yogendra Sarswati and Madhwacharya.
 

 
349C/58 394 Vol.3 1727 326. 
 
Photo with Pandit Jasraj, Kathawachak Kankeshwari and Narendra Sarswati. 349C/59 395 Vol.3 1728 327. 
 
Photo with Gopalanand, Ramesh Chandra Ojha along with Keshu Bhai Patel. 349C/60 396 Vol.3 1729 328. 
 
The scene of Shobhayatra (grand procession), two photographs
 

 
349C/61 397 Vol.3 1730 329. 
 
Shankarcharya of Shrigneri Jyotishpeethadhishwar Ja.Sha. Swami Swaroopanand Ji Maharaj along with Shringeri Peethadhishwar Ja. Sha. Swami Bharati Teerth Ji and Ramanandacharya Swami Ram Nareshacharya, Dharm Samrat Swami Karpatri Ji Maharaj, Swami Krishna Bodhashram Ji and renowned signer Anoop Jalota with Ja. Sha. Swaroppnanad Ji. 
 

 
349C/62 398 Vol.3 1731 330. 
 
Along with Shankaracharya. 349C/63 399 Vol.3 1732 331. 
 
Maharaj Ji along with Lokpati Tripathi. 349C/64 400 Vol.3 1733 332. 
 
Along-with members of the Kashi Vidwat Parishad during recitation of the national anthem. 
 

 
349C/65 401 Vol.3 1734 333. 
 
Congregation of learned persons in Vedic scriptures Along with Mahant of Ayodhya. 
 

 
349C/66 402 Vol.3 1735 334. 
 
Along with Kedarnath, Justice Giridhar Malviya. 349C/67 403 Vol.3 1736 335. 
 
Along-with Kashi Naresh
 

 
349C/68 404 Vol.3 1737 336. 
 
Conference of Hindu-Muslim, two photographs
 

 
349C/69 405 Vol.3 1738 337. 
 
Along-with Muslim religious persons
 

 
349C/70 406 Vol.3 1739 338. 
 
Four photographs during the Shobhayatra (grand procession) in Prayag. 349C/72 407 Vol.3 1741 339. 
 
Along with Mahants of Naranjani, Phool and Awahan Akharas. 349C/73 408 Vol.3 1742 340. 
 
Three photographs along-with many saints Jagatguru Madhavacharya of Ayodhya, along with Pancha Anant Annapurna partinidhi (five representatives) of Shringeri, along with with Shankaracharya Ramanandacharya of Puri.
 

 
349C/74 409 Vol.3 1743 341. 
 
Along with Ramanandacharya, Haridharacharya, Murari Chaitanya Ji of Agni Akara, Mahant Parmanand Sarswati of Akhara and Avadheshnannd Parmanand. 
 

 
349C/75 410 Vol.3 1744 342. 
 
Along with Agni Peethadhishwar, Juna Peethadheeshwar Awadheshanand. 349C/76 411 Vol.3 1745 343. 
 
Along with Gopalanand Bapu, Mahant Vishwanath Das Sarwati and Secretary of Juna Akhara. 
 

 
349C/77 412 Vol.3 1746 344. 
 
With president of Badrinath Kedarnath Samiti,Shankar Dayal Sharma, scholars and renowned persons, on the occasion of Janmotswa Mahraj Ji 
 

 
349C/78 413 Vol.3 1747 345. 
 
Along with Shri Prakash Jaiswal and Secretary of the Shringeripeeth. 349C/79 414 Vol.3 1748 346. 
 
Along-with Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Digvijay Singh. 349C/80 415 Vol.3 1749 347. 
 
Letter of Shri Ramjanam Bhumi Ramalaya Trust Nyas, Chief Trusty Sarpanch Bhagwan Das 
 
15.09.96 
 
351A/1 416 348. 
 
Letter of Sh. Badrinath Kedarnath Mandir Committee 
 
12.04.05
 
351A/2 417 349. 
 
Letter of Sh. R.K. Niglani, Environment and Forest Minister 
 
31.05.95
 
351 A/1/E-3 418 Vol.3
 

 
Plff./ Rspdt
 
PB 1752 350. 
 
Letter from President House, Government of India 
 
04.02.73
 
351 A/1/ E-4 419 Vol.3 1753 351. 
 
Letter from Ministry of Commerce, India 
 
16.09.74 
 
351 A/1/ E-5 420 Vol.3 1754 352. 
 
Letter of P.G. Makalankar, Member of Parliament 
 
23.11.73
 
351 A/1/ E-6 421 Vol.3 1755 353. 
 
Letter of D.K. Rawal King Jain Saheb, Jam Nagar 
 
27.11.73 
 
351 A/1/ E-7 422 Vol.3 1756 354. 
 
Letter of Minister of State for Shipping, Transportation and Parliamentary Affairs dated 
 
24.12.73 
 
351 A/1/ E-8 423 Vol.3 1757 355. 
 
Letter of Mahamandleshwar Swami Bhajnanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj 
 
28.11.73. 351 A/1/ E-9 424 Vol.3 1758 356. 
 
Letter of Deputy Minister for Irrigation and Energy 
 
 23.11.73. 351 A/1/ E-10 425 Vol.3 1759 357. 
 
Letter of Governor, Tamilnadu. 16.09.74
 
351 A/1/ E-11 426 Vol.3 1760 358. 
 
Letter of Jagannath Prasad Jalan. 28.11.73
 
351 A/1/ E-12 427 Vol.3 1761 359. 
 
Letter of Ajit r/o Palace Dhrangadhara. 27.11.73. 351 A/1/ E-13 428 Vol.3 1762 360. 
 
Letter of Chaturamyan Jagatguru Shankaracharya, Representative, Committee 
 
03.10.81 
 
351 A/1/ E-14 429 Vol.3 1763 361. 
 
Letter of Mahabalak Shri, Mantri 
 
08.01.79. 351 A/1/ E-15 430 Vol.3 1764 362. 
 
Letter of Shri Sanatan Dharm Sabha 
 
15.05.96. 351 A/1/ E-16 & 17 431 Vol.3 1765 363. 
 
Letter of Shri Ram Janam Bhumi Punruddhar Samiti 
 
28.01.95 
 
351 A/1/ E-18-20 432 Vol.3
 
1766-1769 364. 
 
Letter of Ujjain Mahakaal Mandir. Astami Samvat 2055. 351 A/1/ E-21 433 Vol.3 1770 365. 
 
Letter of General Administration Department, MP. 23.01.86. 351 A/1/ E-22 434 Vol.3 1771 366. 
 
Letter of Income Tax Department 
 
28.01.01. 351 A/1/ E-23 435 Vol.3 1772 367. 
 
Letter of Transport Department, MP 
 
25.05.98. 351 A/1/ E-24 436 Vol.3 1773 368. 
 
Letter of Sh. Dwarika Sharda Peeth 
 
Ashwin Shukla Purnima 2030 
 
351 A/1/ E-25 437 Vol.3 1774 369. 
 
Letter of Bhagwan Das Sarpanch Akhara, Executive Committee Parishad 
 
 19.02.95 
 
351 A/1/ E-26 438 Vol.3 1775 370. 
 
Letter of Shri Jairam Ashram Haridwar. 02.03.95. 351 A/1/ E-27 439 Vol.3 1776 371. 
 
Letter of the Ministry of Law, Justice & Company Affairs 
 
14.09.74. 351 A/1/ E-28 440 Vol.3 1777 372. 
 
Letter of Minister for Communication 
 
13.09.74. 351 A/1/ E-29 441 Vol.3 1778 373. 
 
Letter of Triloki Das Khandelwal 
 
30.08.94. 351 A/1/ E-30 442 Vol.3 1779 374. 
 
Letter of Shri Ram Chandra Ji Dongre Foundation Trust, Ayodhya 
 
15.9.96. 351 A/1/ E-31 443 Vol.3 1780 375. 
 
Letter of Shri Vibhushit Jagatguru Ramanujacharya Swami Madhwacharya Ji Maharaj, Asharfi Bhawan, Ayodhya. 
 
14.09.96. 351 A/1/ E-32 444 Vol.3 1781 376. 
 
Letter of Ganga Nath Jha Kendriya Sanskrit Vidyapeeth. 19.01.96. 351 A/1/ E-33 445 Vol.3 1782 377. 
 
Letter of Swami Virendranand Giri. 351 A/1/ E-34 446 Vol.3 1783 378. 
 
Letter of Akhil Bhartiya Dharamvir Dal Samiti. 15.9.04. 351 A/1/ E-35 447 Vol.3 1784 379. 
 
Letters Shri Mansha Mata Mandir Sewa Trust. 19.12.95. 351 A/1/ E-36 to 37 448 Vol.3
 
1765-1786 380. 
 
Letter of Bhagwan Parshuram Jayanti Samaroh Samiti 
 
27.05.92. 351 A/1/ E-38 449 Vol.3 1787 381. 
 
Letter of U.P. Swantantra Sangram Senani Sangthan 
 
14.06.94. 351 A/1/ E-39 450 Vol.3 1788 382. 
 
Letter of Rajendra Prasad Shukla, Minister for Water Resources, Parliamentary Affairs, Law and Legal Affairs, M.P. 
 
23.11.94. 351 A/1/ E-40 451 Vol.3 1789 383. 
 
Letter of Akhil Bhartiya Gyanwapi Mukti Maha Parishad. 25.03.99. 351 A/1/ E-41 452 Vol.3 1790 384. 
 
Letters of Shri Shyam Mitra Mandal 
 
09.11.94. 351 A/1/ E-42 & 43 453 Vol.3
 
1792-1793 385. 
 
Letter of Swami Sitaram Saran Laxman Kiladheesh 
 
14.09.96. 351 A/1/ E-44 454 Vol.3 1794 386. 
 
Letter of Madhya Pradesh Yuva Congress-I 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-45 455 Vol.3 1795 387. 
 
Letter of British High Commission 
 
17.09.74. 351 A/1/ E-46 456 Vol.3 1796 388. 
 
Letter from Newspapers containing impressive regional news, Dainik Udyog Aas Pass
 
16.09.94. 351 A/1/ E-47 457 Vol.3 1797 389. 
 
Letter of Shri Hanuman Jayanti Utsav Samiti 
 
18.11.80. 351 A/1/ E-48 458 Vol.3 1798 390. 
 
Letter of Prayas Prakashan 
 
26.09.96. 351 A/1/ E-49 459 Vol.3 1799 391. 
 
Letter of Mahant Lakshman Das Shashtri, President, Sadhu Sant Samaj Sangthan, M.P. 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-50 460 Vol.3 1800 392. 
 
Letter of Triloki Das Khandelwal 
 
26.12.92 
 
351 A/1/ E-51 461 Vol.3 1801 393. 
 
Letter of Pandit Radhey Sharma, President - Shri Ram Charit Manas Sammelan. 351 A/1/ E-52 462 Vol.3 1802 394. 
 
Letter of Pandit Gunanand Shankar Dutt Nautiyal. 25.11.87 
 
351 A/1/ E-53 463 Vol.3 1803 395. 
 
Letter of Bhawana Gaur, Vice President- Shahar Congress Committee, Meerut 
 
17.11.92. 351 A/1/ E-54 464 Vol.3 1804 396. 
 
Letter of Prime Minister, Government of India. 29.05.95
 
351 A/1/ E-55 465 Vol.3 1805 397. 
 
Letter of Ved Shrottejak Sabha, Pune 
 
06.11.87. 351 A/1/ E-56 466 Vol.3 1806 398. 
 
Letter of Hiran Mahotsava 
 
12.12.83. 351 A/1/ E-57 467 Vol.3 1807 399. 
 
Letter of Dr. S.P. Mishra, Lecturer, Harishchandra Degree College, Varanasi 
 
7.2.2000 
 
351 A/1/ E-58 468 Vol.3 1808 400. 
 
Letter of Pandit Raj Kishore Gandwal Rajabhai Ganpati Garment, Upper Bazaar, Joshi Math. 
 
11.06.05. 351 A/1/ E-59 469 Vol.3 1809 401. 
 
Letter of Shri Shri Vidya Dham. 26.05.01. 351 A/1/ E-60-61 470 Vol.3 1810 402. 
 
Letter of Dr. Gajanand Sharma through District Magistrate, Varanasi . 28.07.90
 
351 A/1/ E-62 471 Vol.3 1811 403. 
 
Letter of Akhil Bhartiya Gram Pradhan Sangthan, U.P. 
 
31.01.95. 351 A/1/ E-63 472 Vol.3 1812 404. 
 
Letter of Prime Minister Narshingha Rao 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-64 473 Vol.3 1813 405. 
 
Letter of Shashi Dhar Pujari Joteshwar Mandir. 13.03.78. 351 A/1/ E-65 474 Vol.3 1814 406. 
 
Letter of Shri Bharat Dharm Mahamandal 
 
30.11.71. 351 A/1/ E-66 475 Vol.3 1815 407. 
 
Telegram 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-67 476 Vol.3 1816 408. 
 
Letter of Maharaja Bhanu Pratap Singh Narsingh Garh. 21.07.03. 351 A/1/ E-68-69 477 Vol.3
 
1817-1818 409. 
 
Letter of Keshavaraj Agrawal Kalyan Kalptaru Geeta Press. 351 A/1/ E-70 478 Vol.3 1819 410. 
 
Telegram 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-71 479 Vol.3 1820 411. 
 
Telegram 
 

 
351 A/1/ E-72 480 Vol.3 1821 412. 
 
Letter of Madhav Rao Sindhia, Civil Aviation and Tourism 
 
04.09.91
 
 
 
351 A/1/ E-73 481 Vol.3 1822 413. 
 
Letter of President House 
 
04.12.73. 351 A/1/ E-74 482 Vol.3 1823 414. 
 
Copy of Trust Deed. 23.05.1941
 
351 A/1/ E-75-78 483 Vol.3
 
1824-1825 415. 
 
Letter of S. Gupta 
 
14.07.95. 351 A/1/ E-79 484 Vol.3 1826 416. 
 
Letter of Shri Jairam Ashram 
 
01.12.73. 351 A/1/ E-80 485 Vol.3 1827 417. 
 
Letter by Secretary Incharge Shri Bharat Dharam Mahamandal to Pandit Bal Krishan Mishra
 
Attested on 27.5.1975. 11.05.1941
 

 

 
27.07.75
 
353A/1F to 10 486 Vol.3
 
1830-1840 418. 
 
Letter of Swami Shantanand Saraswati
 
16.11.62
 
353A/11 487 Vol.3
 
1811-1845 419. 
 
Letter from Muslim Sammelan
 
05.10.03
 
353A/12 488 Vol.3 1846 420. 
 
Letter from Acharya Sabha
 
Samvat 2056
 
353A/13 489 Vol.3 1847 421. 
 
Certificate with signatures of Acharyas of Kashi Vidwat Parishad in Kashi Vishwanath Mandir
 

 
353A/14 490 Vol.3 1848 422. 
 
Letter of Pandit Ramesh Chandra Sadashiv Vaishya
 
07.09.05
 
353A/15 491 Vol.3 1849 423. 
 
Letter of Jai Pal Singh, Former Minister of Home, Madhya Pradesh
 
02.01.93
 
353A/16 to 353A/19 492 Vol.3 1850 424. 
 
Letter from Bharat Dharam Mahamandal
 
07.04.01
 
353A/20 493 Vol.3 1850 425. 
 
Copy of Writ No. 29072/2006 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Vs. Civil Judge, Senior Division, Allahabad and one other.
 

 
358C/1 to 358C/18 494 Vol.4
 
1881-1898 426. 
 
Copy of Amendment Application in Writ No. 29072/2006 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Vs. Civil Judge, Senior Division, Allahabad and one other.
 

 
359C/1 to 359C/4 495 Vol.4
 
1899-1902 427. 
 
Copy of affidavit Writ No. 29072/2006 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Vs. Civil Judge, Senior Division, Allahabad and one other.
 

 
360C/1 to 360C/3 496 Vol.4
 
1903-1905 428. 
 
Copy of order in Writ No. 29072/2006 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Vs. Civil Judge, Senior Division, Allahabad and one other.
 
03.07.2006
 
362C/1 & 362C/2
 

 
(361C/4) 497 Vol.4
 
1906-1907 429. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/2 88 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 430. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/3 89 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 431. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/4 90 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 432. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/5 91 538 278 to 300 433. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/6 92 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 434. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/7 93 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 435. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/8 94 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 436. 
 
Negative, (Statement of Nijanand Brahamchari PW 23)
 

 
500A/9 95 Vol.1
 
278 to 300 437. 
 
Copy of the judgement of Civil Judge-IV, Varanasi in Case No. 93/80, Swami Dwarkeshanand Vs Swami Vishnuedevanand and Shantanand Sarswati. 
 
25.10.1980
 
538C/7 to 538C/9 138 Vol.4
 
1986 to 1989 438. 
 
Copy of the orders in Case no. 93/80 Dwarkeshanand Vs Vishnudevanand. 27.01.1994 to 19.02.2008
 
538C/10 to 538C/16 139 Vol.4
 
1986 to 1989 439. 
 
Copy of the plaint in case no. 955/1989 titled as Dwarkeshanand Vs Vasudevanand. 538C/17 to 538C/24 140 440. 
 
Copy of the application by tenants of Shri Krishnanand Sarswati Trust for depositing rent in the name of Swami Swaroopanand 
 

 
538C/25 -34 141 441. 
 
True copy of Case No. 6 of 2005 u/s 107 / 116 IPC
 

 
538C/35-39 142 442. 
 
Copy of judgement passed by Civil Judge, Junior Division, Chamoli in original suit no. 7/98, titled as 'Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Vs Indu Prasad Upadhyay' and in another matter, the said respondents were restrained. 
 
24.02.2003
 
538C/41 to 538C/43 143 443. 
 
Copy of judgement in case no. 13A/2003, Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Vs Proprietor, Asia Scientific Gayatri Pathshala . 
 
07.01.2003
 
538C/44 to 538C/48 144 444. 
 
CA 1148/08 True copy, order dated 8.4.2006 
 
08.04.2006
 
538C/44-50 144 445. 
 
Copy of decree in the aforesaid case. 538C/49 to 538C/50 498 446. 
 
Copy of the judgement in the case titled as 'Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Vs Proprietor Katiya Toppers', case No. 40A/03.
 
12.09.2006
 
538C/51 to 538C/54 145 447. 
 
Copy of the decree in the aforesaid case. 538C/55 499 448. 
 
Copy of the judgement in case no. 44A/03, Swami Swaroopanand Vs Kalam Scooter . 12.09.2006
 
538C/57 to 538C/62 146 449. 
 
CA 1151/08, True copy, order dated 8.4.2006 
 
12.9.2006
 
538C/63-68 147 450. 
 
CA 1154/08, True copy, order dated 12.9.2006 
 
12.9.2006
 
538C/63-68 148 451. 
 
CA 1157/08 True copy, order dated 7.4.2006 
 

 
538C/75-79 149 452. 
 
True copy of judgment in C.A.1151 of 2008
 

 
538C/63-68 147 453. 
 
CA 1158/08 True copy, order dated 7.4.2006 
 

 
538C/80-84 150 454. 
 
CA 1156/08 True copy, order dated 7.4.2006 
 

 
538C/85-89 151 455. 
 
CA 1155/08 True copy, order dated 7.4.2006 
 

 
538C/90-94 152 456. 
 
Copy of the judgement passed by the Jabalpur Court against the tenants in favour of Swami Swaroopanand. 
 

 
538C/63 to 538C/94
 
147 to 152 457. 
 
Copy of the judgement in the appeal no. 11/07, Gulati Enterprises Vs Swami Swaroopanand .
 
04.07.07
 
538C/95 to 538C/99 153 458. 
 
Copy of First Appeal no. ..of 2007 and copy of order 
 
13.04.2007
 
538C/100-104 154 459. 
 
Copy of the 5-year Khasara of Jaardguru Shankaracharya Jyotishpeeth Mandir Shri Laxmi Narayan, Khasara of Mauja Saraud, Khasara of Patan, Khasara of Gayatri Sanskrit Pathshala and Khasara of Math Taal. 
 
Form 
 
02.01.2008
 
538C/105 155 Vol.4 2080 460. 
 
Copy of 5- year Khasra
 
02.01.2008
 
538C/106 156 Vol.4 2080 461. 
 
Copy of 5- year Khasra
 
20.12.2007
 
538C/107 157 Vol.4 2083 462. 
 
True copy of application
 
20.12.2007
 
538C/108 158 Vol.4 2081 463. 
 
True copy of application
 
02.01.2008
 
538C/109 159 464. 
 
Original mukhtarnama by Rajendra Prasad Mihsra. 538C/110 to 538C/114 160 465. 
 
The statement of Chandrashekhar Shastri in the case No. 3/54; who had proved that abhishek (investiture) of Krishna Bodhashram was performed at Joshi Math. 
 

 
538C/115 to 538C/121 161 466. 
 
Certified copy of employees' address register number 1, Geeta Press Gorakhpur Shri Ram Ji Tripathi S/o Lal Bihari 
 

 
538C/122 162 467. 
 
Copy of certificate issued by Manager, certifying that Sri Ram Ji Tripathi had been Kar Binder at Geeta Press Gorakhpur. 
 

 
538C/123 163 468. 
 
Copy of information dated 19.04.2008 given through certified photocopy dated 5.10.1989, by the Inspector, Sanskrit Pathsaalayein, Allahabad, U.P. to Shri Ajai Tiwari Advocate under Right to Information Act, 2005 in respect of substantive appointment of Somnath Dwivedi in pay-scale of Rs. 650-1989 on 10.08.1979.
 
19.04.2008
 
538C/124 500 Vol.4 2087 469. 
 
Copy of information given under the Right to Information Act, 2005 , through certified copy dated 05.10.1989 regarding fixation of seniority of Manager and Assistant Teachers of Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit,thereby fixing seniority of Shri Raj Narayan Tripathi, Head of Department in Sahitya (Literature) at number 1 and that of Shri Somnath Dwivedi, Head of Department in Vedant at number 3. 
 
5.10.1989
 
538C/125 131 Vol.4 2088 470. 
 
Report under Right to Information Act 11.09.1991
 
538C/126 132 Vol.4 2089 471. 
 
Report under Right to Information Act 11.09.1991
 
538C/127 133 Vol.4 2090 472. 
 
Report under Right to Information Act 16.10.1991
 
538C/128 134 Vol.4
 
2091 to 2096 473. 
 
Report under Right to Information Act 16.10.1991
 
538C/134 135 Vol.4
 
2091 to 2096 474. 
 
Copy of show cause notice u/s 314 of the Siksha Samhita (Education Code) pertaining to irregularities committed by two teachers in the school, thereby charging Shri Somnath Dwivedi, Head of Department (Vedant), of misappropriating Government Money to the tune of Rs. 6,915/- availed towards foreign journeys, for two weeks from 10.12.1982 and further from 5.2.1983 to 4.4.1983 (total 73 days) and similarly, charging Sri Shivarchan Upadhyay of misusing Government Money to the tune of Rs. 3,389/-, as stated in paragraph 5 at page number 2.
 
10.12.1982
 
&
 
05.02.1983 to 04.04.1983
 
538C/126 to 538C/127
 
132 to 133
 
Vol.4 2089 475. 
 
The clarification given by Shri Baburam Tripathi, Prabandhak (Manager) Shri Jyotishpeeth Mahavidyalaya Alopi Bagh, Aallahabad to Director of Education, Samanya-2, Vistar Anubhag, Allahabad, with respect to details of salary paid to Somnath Dwivedi and Shivarchan Prasad Upadhyay while being on leave for foreign journey for 73 days as stated in paragraph no.2, page no.5. 
 
16.10.1991
 
538C/128 to 538C/134
 
134 to 135
 
Vol.4
 
2091 to 2097 476. 
 
Receipt of required amount deposited for copy. 23.04.2008
 
538C/135 501 Vol.4 2099 477. 
 
Copy of the order given to Swami Vasudevanand by Registrar, Societies & Chits, Allahabad informing that he had been restrained from declaring himself as 'Shankaracharya'.
 
12.01.2005
 
538C/136 to 538C/137
 

 
Vol.4
 
2101 to 2102 478. 
 
A letter given to Assistant Registrar, Chit Fund. 538C/138 to 538C/140 502 Vol.4 2103 479. 
 
Photocopy of the details of budget (income and expenditure) for the year 1988-1989 sent by Managers of Sanskrit Pathshalas of Uttar Pradesh financially aided by Education Department of Uttar Pradesh, details furnished by Manager, Jyotishpeeth Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Alopibagh, contained in total 9 pages; showing payment of the salary made despite being on foreign tour and forged signatures, as mentioned at page no.3 and tendering resignation by Shri Somnath Dwivedi from his post on 13.11.1989 and thus being relieved from duty from the said date, as stated in column 4 of page no.5 
 
03.03.1990
 

 

 

 
13.11.1989
 
538C/141 136 Vol.4 2104 480. 
 
Account of income and expenditure for the year 1988-1989. 538C/142 to 538C/149 503 Vol.4
 
2105 to 2106 481. 
 
Certified copy of photocopy of permission letter no. 4-2 Vistar 92-93 for appointment of Manager of Jyotishpeeth, Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Prayag, Allahabad, granted by Director of Education, U.P., Shi.-2 Vistar/Anubhag, Allahabad, stating the said vacancy caused on account of resignation by Somnath Dwivedi.
 
04.08.1992
 

 
13.11.1989
 
538C/150 137 482. 
 
Certified copy of the mutation on the basis of order in Appeal no. 56/1997, Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Vs Vasudevanand Sarswati 
 

 
538C/151 to 538C/157 164 483. 
 
Letter of Jagatguru Shankaracharya Mahasansthanam Dakshinamnyay Shri Sharda Peetham Shringeri Peeth, sent by B.R. Gauri Shankar on behalf of Jagatguru to Swami Avikteshwaranand Saraswati informing that declarations of May 1979 and 1993 are sent along with photographs 
 
28.08.2006
 
540 C/16 504 Vol.7, 
 

 
Plff/
 
Respt
 
PB. 3123-3124 484. 
 
Declarations signed by Bharti Tirth Shringeri Mathadheesh, Swaroopanand Saraswati Dwarkia Mathadheesh, again Swaroopanand Saraswati JtotirMathadheesh, Nichhalanand Saraswati Puri Mathadheesh, Jayant Saraswati, Kanchi Peethadheeshwar. 
 
27.06.1993
 
540C/17 
 
&
 
540C/18 505 Vol.7
 
3125-3126 485. 
 
Photographs and negatives
 

 
540C/23 to 52
 
169-197
 
Vol.7
 
3127-3178 486. 
 
Message signed by Shringeri Peethadheeshwar Vidyateerth, Jyotispeethadheeshwar Swaroopanand Saraswati, Govardhan Peethadheeshwar and Abhinav Sachhidanand Teerth Dwarika Peethadheeshwar. 
 

 
540C/19 506 Vol.7 3126 487. 
 
Photographs of all the aforesaid Shankaracharyas worshipping together 
 

 
540 C/20 181 Vol.7 3127 488. 
 
Photograph of the plaintiff with the Shankaracharyas. 540 C/21 182 Vol.7 3127 489. 
 
Photograph of Krishna Bodhashram with other Shankaracharyas 
 

 
540 C/22 183 Vol.7 3127 490. 
 
Bill/ Cash memo of photographer Tiwari
 

 
540 C/23 184 Vol.7 3129 491. 
 
Photograph along with negative of Banglamukhi, Jabalpur. 540 C/24 to 24/1 185 Vol.7 3131 492. 
 
Photographs with negative of the Banglamukhi Temple. 540 C/25 to 
 
540 C/27
 
186 to 188
 
Vol.7 3132 493. 
 
Photograph with negative of the compound of Banglamukhi Temple Ashram 
 

 
540 C/28 189 494. 
 
Photograph of the building of Banglamukhi Ashram, being place for stay of plaintiff Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, Jyotispeethadheeshwar and Dwarika Sharda Peethadeeshwar. 
 

 
540 C/29 190 495. 
 
Photograph with negative of Shankaracharya Math Banglamukhi Temple. 540 C/30 191 496. 
 
Photo with negative of Banglamukhi Temple 
 

 
540 C/31 192 497. 
 
Photo with negative of Yagyashala constructed by the plaintiff in the Banglamukhi Ashram. 
 

 
540 C/32 193 498. 
 
Photograph with negative of Banglamukhi Ashram, Jabalpur. 540 C/33 194 499. 
 
Photograph with negative of Shankaracharya Ashram, Banglamukhi, Jabalpur. 540 C/34 195 500. 
 
Photograph with negative of Banglamukhi Ashram 
 

 
540 C/35 196 501. 
 
Photograph with negative of new building in Banglamukhi Ashram constructed by the plaintiff 
 

 
540 C/36 197 502. 
 
File no.2/2 Invitation Letter. 92-143 198 503. 
 
File no.2/3 Photograph digital
 

 
44-181 199 504. 
 
File no.2/4 Photograph digital
 

 
182-251/ 3 200 505. 
 
Photograph with negative of Banglamukhi Gate 
 

 
540 C/37 507 506. 
 
Photograph with negative of temple situated at Banglamukhi Ashram 
 

 
540 C/38 508 507. 
 
Photograph with negative of Banglamukhi Ashram/ Temple
 

 
540 C/39 509 508. 
 
Photograph with negative of Shankaracharya Math. 540 C/40 510 Vol.7 3137 509. 
 
Photograph with negative of Shankaracharya Math Lakshmi Narayan Temple, Ramnagara. 
 

 
540 C/41 511 510. 
 
Photographs with negative of Lakshmi Narayan Temple Ramnagra. 540 C/42 to 
 
540 C/45 512 511. 
 
Photograph with negative of Garbha Grih of Lakshmi Narayan Temple 
 

 
540 C/46 513 Vol.7 3143 512. 
 
Photograph with negative of Pakka Ghat Ramnagra. 540 C/46 to 
 
540 C/49 513 Vol.7
 
3144 to 3146 513. 
 
Photograph with negative of Shri Shankaracharya Agricultural Farm Ramnagra, Tilwaraghat, Jabalpur 
 

 
540 C/50 to 
 
540 C/52 514 Vol.7
 
3147 to 3149 514. 
 
Photograph of plaintiff Jyotishpeethadheeshwar with Shankaracharyas of the other Peeths . 
 

 
540 C/53 to
 
540 C/54. 515 Vol.7
 
3150 to 3153 515. 
 
Photograph of the plaintiff with Shringeri Peethadheeshwar 
 

 
540 C/55 to
 
540 C/57 516 Vol.7
 
3150 to 3153 516. 
 
Photograph of the plaintiff sitting with Dwarika Peethadheeshwar at the time of his Abhishek ceremony as Jyotishpeethadheeshwar at Delhi
 

 
540 C/58 to
 
540 C/61 517 Vol.7
 
3150 to 3153 517. 
 
Photograph of Rajju Bhaiya, Sanchalak, Rastriya Swayam Sewak Sangh discussing with Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Mahraj
 

 
540 C/62 518 Vol.7 3154 518. 
 
Photograph of Sh. Sunder Lal Bahuguna and R.S.S. Chief Sh. Rajju Bhaiya sitting beside Singhasaseen Jyotispeeth-adheeshwar Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj at Haridwar camp conducted by the Ganga Mahasabha
 

 
540 C/63 519 Vol.7 3154 519. 
 
Photographs of Sh. Ashok Singhal, President, Vishwa Hindu Parishad discussing with the plaintiff
 

 
540 C/64 to 540/66 520 Vol.7 3155 520. 
 
Photograph no. 51 of Ashok Singhal, President, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, taking blessings from the plaintiff
 

 
540 C/67 521 Vol.7 3156 521. 
 
Photograph No. 52 Jagatguru Ramanandacharya with Nischalanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj and Ramnareshacharya sitting on the podium on the occasion of Shatabdi Mahatsav 
 

 
540 C/68 522 Vol.7 3157 522. 
 
Photograph No. 53 of Swami Avimukteshwaranand, representative and disciple of plaintiff Jyotispeedheeshwar and Puri Peethadheeshwar with Yogi Adityanath, MP, BJP
 

 
540 C/69 523 Vol.7 3157 523. 
 
Photograph of the Chatuspeeth Sammelan held at Shrengeri Peeth in relation to "Ramsetu Bachao" 524. 
 
Photograph of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi performing Charan Poojan of plaintiff 
 

 
540C/71 525 Vol.7 3158 525. 
 
Photographs 56 to 66 of the plaintiff with Shringeri Peethadheeshwar. 540C/72
 
to
 
540C/82 526 Vol.7
 
3159 to 3162 526. 
 
Paper of Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Suraksha Samiti
 

 
540C/79 201 527. 
 
Paper of Akhil Bhartiya Ved Prachar Parishad
 

 
540C/80 202 528. 
 
The envelope of letter sent to plaintiff's disciple Avimukteshwaranand by Dayanand Saraswati Karvinar H.D.A.S. 
 

 
540C/83 527 Vol.7 3163 529. 
 
Signed Declaration given by the Swami Dayanand Saraswati, Convener of Hindu Dharm Acharya Sabha 
 

 
540C/84 528 Vol.7 3163 530. 
 
Letter written on behalf of Swami Dayanand Saraswati to Swami Sutridanand Saraswati. 
 
09.04.08
 
540C/85 529 Vol.7 3164 531. 
 
Letter declaring Krishbodhashram as Sankaracharya of the Jyotirmath 
 
10.01.65. 540C/86 530 Vol.7 3165 532. 
 
Letter expressing happiness on installation of 4 feet high divine idol of Adi Guru Shankaracharya and granting recognition to plaintiff as Peethadheeshwar of Dwarika Peeth and Jyotispeeth. 
 

 
540C/87 531 Vol.7 3166 533. 
 
Envelope 
 

 
540C/88 532 534. 
 
Letter of Yogi Adityanath, addressing the plaintiff as Jyotispeethadheeshwar. 
 

 
540C/89 533 Vol.7 3167 535. 
 
Letter sent by Karat Kesar Singh to Swami Swaroopanand 
 

 
540C/90 534 Vol.7 3168 536. 
 
Letter sent by Akhil Bhartiya Peeth Parishad 
 

 
540C/91 535 Vol.7 3169 537. 
 
Declaration of Setu Bandhu Rameshwaram Raksha Samiti signed by Nishchalanand Saraswati, Jyotispeethadheeshwar Swaroopanand, Kashi Peethadheeshwar Chinmayanand Saraswati and Kalika Peethadheeshwar Mahant Surendra Nath 
 
09.03.2007 
 
540C/92 536 Vol.7 3170 538. 
 
Letter of Shivji S. Navteke 
 
16.02.2007 
 
540C/93 537 Vol.7 3171 539. 
 
Letter of good wishes from the Chief Minister, Rajasthan 
 
13.08.2002. 540C/94 538 Vol.7 3172 540. 
 
Letter of Swami Harinarayananand, Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Suraksha Samiti and Akhil Bhartiya Ved Prachar Samiti 
 
27.01.2007 
 
540C/95 539 Vol.7 3175 541. 
 
Letter of Rastriya Mantri, Bharat Sindhu Samaj. 540C/96 540 Vol.7 3176 542. 
 
Letters from various Hindu Societies addressing Swami Swaroopanand as Jyotispeethadheeshwar 
 

 
540C/97
 
to 540C/101 541 543. 
 
Hindi translation of Shlokas of Mathamnay & Mahanushashnam by Kashi Vidwat Pashishad explaining meaning of Nigrah. 
 

 
540C/102 542 544. 
 
Shankhnad (declaration) by all four Sankaracharyas on the occasion of 2500th Sanyas Diwas of Aadi Shankaracharya congregation held from 26.1.2001 to 28.11.2001 from a common stage wherein plaintiff participated as Jyotispeethadheshwar and Sharda Peethadheeshwar 
 

 
540C/103 543 Vol.7 3190 545. 
 
Programme of Akhil Bhartiya Sanskrit Patra Karit Darshane Sanskrit Patrakar Sangoshthi. 
 

 
540C/104 544 Vol.7 3193 546. 
 
Pamphlet of Conference organized by Virat Ramsetu Raksha Sabha, Ramleela Ground. 
 

 
540C/105 545 Vol.7 3194 547. 
 
Letter of Kamal Kishor Agrawal, Ramleela Society, Parade, Meston Road, Kanpur at 
 

 
540C/106 546 Vol.7 3195 548. 
 
Photograph no. 152 showing Sankaracharyas of all four Peeths in which plaintiff had participated as Jyotispeethadheeshwar and Sharda Peethadheeshwar.
 

 
540C/169 549. 
 
File no 2/3 Various photographs 
 

 
540C/161 to 540C/198 199 550. 
 
File no. 2/4 Total 64 photographs 
 

 
540C/199 to 540C/201 200 551. 
 
Photograph Nos 223, 223/1, 227/1, 228, 228/1 showing the Shankaracharyas of all four Peeths 547 Vol.7
 
3426, 3429 & 3430 552. 
 
Photograph no 240/1, 241/1 to 241/3, 242/1 and 242/2, 243/1, 244/1, 245 and 245/1, 246 to 246/3 and 249 showing Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati present with the Shankaracharyas of other Peeths. 548 Vol.7
 
3441 to 3445, 
 
3447 & 3450 553. 
 
Paper no 343/1 contains papers A1 to A78 which are the original documents whereby Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati has been recognized as Jyotispeethadheeshwar and Dwarika Peethadheeshwar.
 

 
A1 to A78
 
49 to 82 554. 
 
Will of Abhinav Sachhidanand Teerth by whereby Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati was nominated as Shankaracharya of the Dwarika Peeth. 
 
11.01.1980
 
A-8 
 
to 
 
A-11 47 555. 
 
Envelopes got printed by Vedant Bharti for inviting people in the Chatushpeetha Sammelan held at Bangalore from 12.05.07 to 20.05.07
 
12.05.07 
 
to 
 
20.05.07 92 198 Vol. 8
 

 
Plff/ 
 
Respt
 
PB
 
3580-4363 556. 
 
Pamphlet for publicity of Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 2 198 Vol. 8
 
3581 & 3582 557. 
 
Letter of Director, Vedant Bharti
 
28.04.2008 3 132 Vol. 8 3583 558. 
 
Invitation card in Hindi for Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 4 549 Vol. 8 3585 3586 559. 
 
Invitation card in Kannada for Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan,2007 5 550 Vol. 8
 
3587 3588 560. 
 
Invitation card in English for Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 6 551 Vol. 8
 
4589 3590 561. 
 
Extract of newspaper regarding convening of Vedanta Goshthi in Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 7 552 Vol. 8 3591 562. 
 
Extract of news item published in the newspaper 'Sanmarg' in connection with Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 8 553 Vol. 8 3593 563. 
 
Extract of news item published in a Kannada daily in connection with Karnatak-Bangalore Chatushpeetha Sammelan, 2007 with the photographs of Shankaracharyas of all the four peethas lightning the lamp.
 
20.05.07 9 554 Vol. 8
 
3594 to 3596 564. 
 
Times of India newspaper, Bangalore edition
 
21.05.2007
 
10 & 11 555 Vol. 8 3598 565. 
 
Deccan Herald newspaper
 
21.05.2007 12 556 Vol. 8 3599 566. 
 
A Kannada newspaper
 

 
13 to 14 557 Vol. 8
 
3600 3601 567. 
 
Bangalore Monday newspaper
 
21.05.2007 15 558 568. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtra Times 16 559 Vol. 8 3602 569. 
 
An envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma, President Jyotishpeetha Sewa Mandal 17 560 Vol. 8 3603 570. 
 
A Letter addressed to OSD to the President by K.K. Sharma 18 561 Vol. 8 3603 571. 
 
Envelope 18/1 562 Vol. 8 3604 572. 
 
A Letter of Harish Rawat 18/2 562 Vol. 8 3604 573. 
 
An envelope 19 566 Vol. 8 3606 574. 
 
A Letter of Tapan Rai 18/3 564 Vol. 8 3605 575. 
 
An envelope 18/4 565 Vol. 8 3605 576. 
 
A letter from Shivraj Patil addressed to K.K. Sharma
 
2.11.1995 20 567 Vol. 8 3606 577. 
 
An envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma 21 568 Vol. 8 3607 578. 
 
A letter from Sunil Shastri addressed to K.K. Sharma
 
2.11.1995 22 569 Vol. 8 3607 579. 
 
A envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma and sent by Shantan Das 23 570 Vol. 8 3608 580. 
 
A letter from Shantanu Das, Joint Secretary to the Governor of Tripura addressed to K.K. Sharma 24 571 Vol. 8 3608 581. 
 
An envelope 25 572 Vol. 8 3609 582. 
 
A letter from S.C. Jain, Additional Private Secretary to the Minister of Home, Government of India addressed to K.K. Sharma
 
24.11.1995 26 573 Vol. 8 3609 583. 
 
An envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma 27 574 Vol. 8 3610 584. 
 
A letter from Daawa Sherya, Raj Bhawan, Lucknow addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma 28 575 Vol. 8 3611 585. 
 
An envelope letter addressed to the Leader of Opposition Atal Bihari Vajpai by K.K. Sharama 29 576 Vol. 8 3612 586. 
 
A letter by Atal Bihari Vajpai, Leader of Opposition addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma
 
27.11.1995 30 577 Vol. 8 3612 587. 
 
An envelope 31 578 Vol. 8 3613 588. 
 
A letter by Kamal Nath addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma
 
30.11.1995 32 579 Vol. 8 3619 589. 
 
A letter by Karan Singh addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma 33 580 Vol. 8 3614 590. 
 
An envelope 34 581 Vol. 8 3615 591. 
 
A letter by N. Bal Chandran, OSD to the Vice President addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma 35 582 Vol. 8 3615 592. 
 
An envelope 35/1 583 Vol. 8 3616 593. 
 
A letter from Inder Bahadur Pandey 35/2 584 Vol. 8 3616 594. 
 
A letter from George Fernandes 35/3 585 Vol. 8 3617 595. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtra Times 36 586 Vol. 8 3618 596. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
01.12.96 37 587 Vol. 8 3619 597. 
 
An envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma 38 588 Vol. 8 3620 598. 
 
A letter by Mahabir Prasad, Governer of Haryana addressed to K.K. Sharma
 
02.12.96 39 589 Vol. 8 3620 599. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
02.12.96 40 590 Vol. 8 3621 600. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik
 
03.12.96 40/1 591 Vol. 8 3622 601. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Jansatta
 
03.12.96 40/2 592 Vol. 8 3623 602. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
03.12.96 41 593 Vol. 8 3624 603. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Prahari
 
04.12.96 42 594 Vol. 8 3625 604. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
06.12.96 43 595 Vol. 8 3626 605. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat
 
06.12.96 44 596 606. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
06.12.96 45 597 Vol. 8 3627 607. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
08.12.96 46 598 Vol. 8 3628 608. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
08.12.96 47 599 Vol. 8 3629 609. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtriya Sahara
 
08.12.96 48 600 Vol. 8 3630 610. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Jansatta
 
09.12.96 49 601 Vol. 8 3631 611. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
09.12.96 50 602 Vol. 8 3632 612. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
09.12.96 51 603 613. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
09.12.96 52 604 Vol. 8 3633 614. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
09.12.96 53 605 615. 
 
Extract of the newspaper JBC Times
 
09.12.96 54 606 616. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Veer Arjun
 
10.12.96 55 607 Vol. 8 3635 617. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Arpan
 
10.12.96 56 608 618. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
12.12.96 57 609 619. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Amar Ujala
 
13.12.96 58 610 620. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
13.12.96 59 611 621. 
 
Letter of Satya Narayan Reddy, Former Governor addressed to Kaushal Kishore Sharma 60 612 Vol. 8 3637 622. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
23.11.97 61 613 Vol. 8 3638 623. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Jansatta
 
25.11.97 62 614 Vol. 8 3639 624. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
19.11.97 63 615 Vol. 8 3640 625. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
19.11.97 64 616 Vol. 8 3641 626. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
19.11.97 65 617 Vol. 8 3641 627. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
19.11.97 66 618 Vol. 8 3642 628. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
05.12.97 67 619 Vol. 8 3643 629. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
05.12.97 68 620 Vol. 8 3644 630. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
06.12.97 69 621 Vol. 8 3645 631. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan Times
 
06.12.97 70 622 Vol. 8 3646 632. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
06.12.97 71 623 Vol. 8 3647 633. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
06.12.97 72 624 Vol. 8 3648 634. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
06.12.97 73 625 635. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtra Times
 
06.12.97 74 626 Vol. 8 3649 636. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
08.12.97 75 627 Vol. 8 3650 637. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Mahalaxmi
 
08.12.97 76 628 Vol. 8 3651 638. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
08.12.97 77 629 639. 
 
Extract of the newspaper The Hind
 
08.12.97 77/1 630 Vol. 8 3652 640. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
08.12.97 77/2 631 Vol. 8 3653 641. 
 
Extract of the newspaper JBC Times
 
08.12.97 78 632 Vol. 8 3654 642. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
08.12.97 79 633 Vol. 8 3655 643. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
09.12.97 80 81 634 635 Vol. 8
 
3656 3657 644. 
 
An envelope addressed to K.K. Sharma 82 636 Vol. 8 3658 645. 
 
A letter by A.N. Khanna/P.L. of R. Venkatraman 83 637 Vol. 8 3658 646. 
 
Narayan Dutt Tiwari addressed to K.K. Sharma 84 638 Vol. 8 3659 647. 
 
Letter of Narendra Nath, Minister of Industrial Education addressed to K.K. Sharma 85 639 Vol. 8 3660 648. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Laxmi
 
05.12.1998 86 640 Vol. 8 3661 649. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Laxmi
 
06.12.1998 87 641 Vol. 8 3661 650. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
08.12.1998 88 642 Vol. 8 3662 651. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Laxmi
 
08.12.1998 89 643 652. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
08.12.1998 90 644 Vol. 8 3663 653. 
 
Letter of Vidya Charan Shukla addressed to K.K. Sharma 91 645 Vol. 8 3664 654. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Punjab Kesari
 
10.12.1999 92 646 Vol. 8 3665 655. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
04.12.1999 93 647 Vol. 8 3666 656. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
07.12.1999 94 648 Vol. 8 3669 657. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
07.12.1999 95 649 Vol. 8 3669 658. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
08.12.1999 96 650 659. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
09.12.1999 97 651 Vol. 8 3670 660. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
11.12.1999 98 652 Vol. 8 3671 661. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Times of India
 
04.12.2000 99 653 Vol. 8 3672 662. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtriya Sahara
 
04.12.2000 100 654 Vol. 8 3673 663. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Jansatta
 
04.12.2000 101 655 Vol. 8 3674 664. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
04.12.2000 102 656 Vol. 8 3675 665. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
04.12.2000 103 657 Vol. 8 3676 666. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
04.12.2000 104 658 Vol. 8 3677 667. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Sandhya Times
 
07.12.2000 105 659 Vol. 8 3678 668. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Hindustan
 
08.12.2001 106 660 Vol. 8 3679 669. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Amar Ujala
 
08.12.2001 107 661 Vol. 8 3680 670. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
08.12.2001 108 662 Vol. 8 3681 671. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Rashtriya Sahara
 
01.12.2002 109 663 Vol. 8 3684 672. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Navbharat Times
 
01.12.2002 110 664 Vol. 8 3685 673. 
 
Extract of the newspaper Dainik Jagran
 
01.12.2002 111 665 Vol. 8 3686 674. 
 
Paper cuttings of several newspapers
 

 
112 to 389 666 Vol. 8
 
3687 to 3966 675. 
 
Paper cuttings of several newspapers
 
11.05.1941
 
390 to 709 667 Vol. 8
 
3967 to 4289 676. 
 
Letter of trust/Declaration of Trust
 

 
552A/8-17 129 677. 
 
Copy of application, Swami Shantanand etc.
 

 
556C 668 Vol.4
 

 
1971-1973 678. 
 
Certified copy of minutes of meeting of Bharat Dharam Mahamandal
 

 
568C/1-289 203 679. 
 
Copy of amendment application in Execution Case No.22 of 1977
 

 
585C 669 Vol.4
 
1979-80 680. 
 
Paper cuttings of several newspapers
 

 
710 to 789 670 681. 
 
Extract from magazine relating to installation of idol of Aadi Guru Shankaracharya at Dakor containing photographs of photos of the then Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Swami Krishan Bodhashram, the then Puri Peethadheeshwar Swami Niranjan Dev Teerth Ji Maharaj and the then Dwarka Sharda Peethadheeshwar Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth Ji Maharaj. 790 671 682. 
 
Magazine "The Apex Hindu Body Its Vision and The Mission" published by Hindu Dharmacharya Sabha 791 672 683. 
 
Book Brahmasiddhi written by Acharya Shri Mandal Mishra, the then Vice Chancellor Sampoornanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya 792 672 684. 
 
Special edition of 42nd Akhil Bhartiya Prachay Vidya Sammelan of Sampoornanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi 793 672 685. 
 
Handwriting and Fingerprint Expert Sri MM Kackar's report. 15.01.2011
 
839A 124 Vol.4
 
1933-1943 686. 
 
Admitted signatures of Sri Vishnudevanand Saraswati
 
Photographs
 

 
840A 124 Vol.4 1944 687. 
 
CD kept in small box for safety purpose
 

 
841A/CD 207 688. 
 
Handwriting and Finger Print Expert's Examination report
 
23.4.2011
 
842A/1-8 204 Vol.4
 
1945-1952 689. 
 
Report of Sri MM Kackar, Handwriting and Fingerprint Expert
 
28.04.2011
 
842A/1-8 205 Vol.4
 
1945 to 1952 690. 
 
Admitted Signature of Vishnudevanand Saraswati, photo 
 

 
843A/2
 

 
A1 to A6 205 Vol.4 1953 691. 
 
Admitted Signature of Vishnudevanand Saraswati, photo 
 

 
843A/3
 

 
A12-13 205 1955 692. 
 
Disputed signature of Vishnudevanand Saraswati, photo B-1 to B-4
 

 
844 Ka/1 206 Vol.4 1956 693. 
 
Disputed signature of Vishnudevanand Saraswati, photo B-5
 

 
844 Ka/2 206 Vol.4 1957 694. 
 
Report of Handwriting and Fingerprint Expert
 
15.01.2011
 
844A/708/1-5 206 695. 
 
Copy of Izara No 22/77 Swami Shantanand Saraswati against Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 
 

 
 875C 673 Vol.4
 
1959-1960 696. 
 
Copy of objections on behalf of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati filed in Execution Suit No. 22/77 
 
09.07.1977 
 
876C 674 Vol.4
 
1961-1962 697. 
 
Copy of Amendment Application on behalf of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 25.07.1977 filed in the suit. 
 
25.07.1977 
 
877C/2 675 Vol.4
 
1963-1964 698. 
 
Copy of objections on behalf of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 
 
05.04.1977 
 
878C 676 Vol.4
 
1965-1968 699. 
 
Copy of affidavit of Narayan Swaroop Brahmchari 
 

 
879C 677 Vol.4
 
1969-1977 700. 
 
Copy of application on behalf of Swami Shantanand Saraswati 
 

 
880C 678 701. 
 
Copy of affidavit of Bhagwati Prasad 
 

 
881C 679 702. 
 
General Attorney of Swami Shantanand Saraswati in favour of Bhagwati Prasad 
 

 
882C/1
 
882C/2 680 Vol.4
 
1977 & 1978 703. 
 
Copy of order passed in Execution suit no. 22/77 Swami Shantanand Saraswati versus Swami Swaroopanand 06.04.1985 
 
883C 681 Vol.4
 
1979 & 1980 704. 
 
Copy of Amendment Application in Execution Suit no 2/77 Swami Shantanand Saraswati versus Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 
 

 
884C 682 Vol.4 1981 to 1982 705. 
 
Copy of Amendment Application in Execution Suit no. 2/77 Swami Shantanand Saraswati versus Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 
 

 
885C 683 706. 
 
Affidavit of Rajendra Prasad Mishra, General Attorney of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati 
 

 
886C 684 Vol.4 1983 707. 
 
Booklet with respect to plot allotment, Kumbh Mela, Hardwar, Uttarakhand, Sector 12 verified by Officer On Special Duty, Kumbh Mela. 
 

 
927C/1 685 Vol.4
 

 
Plff/ Rspdt
 
PB 
 
1852-1853 708. 
 
Khatauni
 

 
927C/2 685 Vol.4
 
1854-1855 709. 
 
Khasra/Khatauni
 

 
927C/3 685 Vol.4
 
1855A 710. 
 
Copy of Khasra, village JoshiMath, Chamoli. 927C/4 685 Vol.4
 
1855-B 711. 
 
Communication letter (Soochna Patra) by Shri Badrinath Kedarnath Mandir Samiti. 
 
31.07.2012 
 
927C/5 685 Vol.4 1856 712. 
 
List of the members of Badrinath Kedarnath Mandir Samiti year 2009-10. 927C/6 685 Vol.4 1857 713. 
 
Certified copy of land allotment by the office of Meladhikari, Kumbha Mela 2010, Mela Niyantran Bhawan, Haridwar. 
 
08.02.2010. 927C/7 685 Vol.4 1858 714. 
 
Certified copy of land allotment by the office of Meladhikari Kumbha Mela 2010, Mela Niyantran Bhawan (Mela Control Office), Haridwar. 
 
08.02.2010. 927C/8 685 Vol.4 1859 715. 
 
Certified copy of the office-order, office of Meladhikari, Kumbha Mela, Haridwar.
 
08.03.2010
 
927C/9 685 Vol.4 1860 716. 
 
Certified copy of the list of police personnel deputed during the Shobha Yatra (grand procession) of Jagatrguru Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Sarswati Ji Maharaj. 
 

 
927C/10 to 927C/15 685 Vol.4
 
1861-1866 717. 
 
Copy of the amendment application in Civil Suit No. 09/10, Swami Swaroopanand Vs Nagar Palika, JoshiMath. 
 

 
927C/16 and 927C/17 685 Vol.4
 
1867-1869 718. 
 
Copy of the plaint in Civil Suit No. 9/10, Swami Swaroopanand Vs Nagar Palika, JoshiMath.
 

 
927C/18 to 927C/21 685 Vol.4
 
1870-1874 719. 
 
Copy of the order in Civil Suit No. 09/10, Swami Swaroopanand Vs Nagar Palika, JoshiMath. 
 
10.03.2010 
 
927C/22 to 927C/24 685 Vol.4
 
1875-1879 720. 
 
Copy of the khatauni of JoshiMath for the fasali year 1408-1423. 927C/25 685 Vol.4 1855 721. 
 
Copy of the khasara of JoshiMath for the fasali year 1417. 927C/26 685 Vol.4
 
1855 B 722. 
 
Copy of the Khewat. 927C/27 to 927C/28 685 723. 
 
Copy of the electoral name-list, Machhalishahar Jaunpur, wherein previous name of Vasudevanand is registered as Shobhnath and his wife's name is registered as Savitri Devi and names of his brothers are registered as Yadvendra, Raghvendra and Kaushlendra 
 

 
927C/29 685 724. 
 
Extract from newspaper 'Dainik Jagran' in which Vasudevanand and Narendranand are shown sitting on a tractor during procession passing through the Allahabad city. 
 

 
928C/39 686 725. 
 
Copy of the plaint in Civil Suit No. 93/94 Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Swami . 1044C/1
 
(1045C) 687 Vol.5
 
2131-2138 726. 
 
Copy of the written statement in Civil Suit No. 93/94, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Swami Shambhawanand .
 

 
1044C/2
 

 
(1046C) 688 Vol.5 plff./Respt. 2139-2146 727. 
 
Copy of the memo of Misc. Appeal No. 286/95, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati Vs. Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1044C/3
 

 
(1047C) 689 Vol.5
 
2147-2150 728. 
 
Copy of the affidavit, Misc. Appeal No. 286/95, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati Vs. Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1044C/4
 

 
(1048C) 690 Vol.5
 
2151-2157 729. 
 
Copy of the plaint in Misc. Case No. 321/98, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs. Swami Shambhwanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1049C 691 730. 
 
Copy of the written statement in Suit No. 321/98, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs. Swami Shambhwanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1050C 692 731. 
 
Copy of the plaint in Suit No. 122/96 Balyogi Narendra Chaitanya Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 

 
1044C/7
 

 
(1051C) 693 Vol.5
 
2158-2164 732. 
 
Copy of the written statement in Suit No. 122/96 Balyogi Narendra Chaitanya Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 

 
1044C/8
 

 
(1052C) 694 Vol.5
 
2165-2176 733. 
 
Copy of the order in Suit No. 122/96 Balyogi Narendra Chaitanya Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 
09.11.2000 
 
1044C/9
 

 
(1053C) 695 Vol.5
 
2177-2180 734. 
 
Copy of the plaint in the Suit No. 321/98 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Vs Swami Shambhvanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1054C 696 735. 
 
Copy of application in Suit No. 321/98 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Vs Swami Shambhvanand Sarswati . 
 

 
1044C/11
 

 
(1055C) 697 Vol.5 2181 736. 
 
Press release of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad. 01.02.2013
 
1044C/12
 

 
(1056C) 698 Vol.5 2182 737. 
 
Copy of the letter of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad. 01.02.2013
 
1057C 699 738. 
 
Copy of the Order of Hon'ble High Court Allahabad, Lucknow Bench in writ petition 4976/2012
 
30.01.2013
 
1044C/14
 

 
(1058C) 700 Vol.5
 
Plff./Rspdt
 
2183-2184 739. 
 
Copy of the Nyas Patra (trust-letter) Urdhwamnyay Shri Kashi Sumeru Peeth Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/15
 

 
(1059C) 701 Vol.5
 
2185-2188 740. 
 
Questionnaire Suit No. 321/98, Civil Judge, Varanasi. 1044C/16
 

 
(1060C) 702 Vol.5 2189 741. 
 
Copy of the Revision No. 54/04 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs. So called Jagatguru Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati, Urdhwanyay Shri Kashi Sumeru Peeth Nyas. 
 

 

 

 
(1061C) 703 Vol.5
 
2190-2194 742. 
 
Copy of the judgement in Civil Revision No. 54/04 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Urdhwanyay Vs So called Jagatguru Shankaracharya Chinmyanand Sarswati. 
 
31.01.2008
 
1044C/19
 

 
(1062C) 704 Vol.5
 
2195-2199 743. 
 
Application for obtaining information. 1044C/20
 
(1063C) 705 Vol.5 2200 744. 
 
Copy of the order in the original Suit No. 1171/1992 Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati, in the Court of Civil Judge (Junior Division), Varanasi. 
 
06.04.1995 
 
1044C/21
 

 
(1064C) 706 Vol.5
 
2201-2205 745. 
 
Copy of the application of original Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati, in the Munsif Court, Varanasi. 
 
31.07.1992
 
1044C/22
 

 
(1065C) 707 Vol.5
 
2206-2213 746. 
 
Copy of the application of the original Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati, in the Munsif Court, Varanasi. 
 
01.09.1992
 
1044C/23
 

 
(1066C) 708 Vol.5
 
2214-2220 747. 
 
Copy of the order sheet in the original Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 
From 31.7.1992 to 29.8.1995
 
1044C/24
 

 
(1067C) 709 Vol.5
 
2221-2231 748. 
 
Copy of the application 19C in the original Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 

 
1068C 710 749. 
 
Original Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand Sarswati. 
 

 
(1069C) 711 Plff./Rspdt
 

 
Vol.5
 
2232-2238 750. 
 
Copy of the order in the original Suit No. 321/1998, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Vs Narendranand Sarswati. 
 
21.09.2011
 
1044C/27
 

 
(1070C) 712 Vol.5
 
2239-2240 751. 
 
Copy of the application in the original Suit No. 321/1998, Jagatguru Shankaracharya Vs Narendranand Sarswati. 
 

 
1071C 713 752. 
 
Copy of the order in the Miscellaneous Appeal No. 286/95, Swami Shambhawanand Vs Swami Chinmayanand. 
 
From 28.10.1996 to 09.01.1997 
 
1044C/29
 

 
(1072C) 714 Vol.5
 
2241-2244 753. 
 
Copy of the Vakaalatnama in the Miscellaneous Appeal No. 286/95, Swami Shambhawanand Vs Swami Chinmayanand. 
 

 
1044C/30
 

 
(1073C/1 and 1073C/2) 715 Vol.5 2245 754. 
 
Copy of the plaint in the original Suit No. 141A/1966 Swami Vasudevanand Sarswati Vs Swami Vishwanath Tripathi. 
 

 
1044C/32
 
1073C/3 and 1073C/10 715 Vol.5
 
2246-2254 755. 
 
Statement of witness Dayashanker Pandey in the original Suit No. 7A/93, Swami Vasudevanand Sarswati Vs Smt. Sharda Devi and others. 
 

 
1074C/1 and 1074C/10 716 756. 
 
Copy of the claim in Suit No. 1171/1992 Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand. 
 

 
1044C/35
 

 
(1075C) 717 Vol.5
 
2255-2262 757. 
 
Copy of the written statement in Suit No. 1171/1992, Swami Chinmayanand Vs Swami Shambhawanand. 
 

 

 
1076C 718 758. 
 
Copy of the order-sheet in Case No. 3999/11, case crime no. 26/05, u/s 120B, 394 IPC PS Jhunsi, Allahabad, State Vs Swami Vasudevanand and others in the Court of ACJM, Court No. 7, Allahabad. 
 
From 31.08.2005 to 01.10.2013
 
1044C/36
 

 
(1077C) 719 Vol.5
 
2263-2271 759. 
 
Copy of the order-sheet in Suit No. MJC 91/03 Swami Swaroopanand Vs Swami Vasudevanand in the Court of District Judge, Jabalpur.
 
3.5.2000 to 26.10.2013
 
1044C/38
 

 
1078C 720 Vol.5
 
2272-2336 760. 
 
Copy of the objection under Rule 97 Order 21 CPC in Suit No. MJC 91/03, Swami Swaroopanand Vs Swami Vasudevanand in the Court of District Judge, Jabalpur.
 

 
1044C/39
 

 
(1079C) 721 Plff./Rspdt
 

 
Vol.5
 
2337-2345 761. 
 
Copy of the affidavit in Suit No. MJC 91/03 Swami Swaroopanand Vs Swami Vasudevanand in the Court of District Judge, Jabalpur. 
 

 
1044C/40
 

 
1080C 722 Vol.5
 
2346-2350 762. 
 
Copy of the application, Suit No. MJC 91/03 Swami Swaroopanand Vs Swami Vasudevanand in the Court of District Judge, Jabalpur.
 
03.05.2010
 
1081C 723 763. 
 
Copy of the order in Suit No. 321/98, Swami Narendranand Vs Swami Shambhawanand in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi. 
 
03.04.1998 to 17.10.2013 
 
1082C 724 764. 
 
Copy of the order in the Civil Revision No. 54/04 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Vs So called Jagatguru Shankaracharya, in the Court of Additional District Judge/ Special Judge (Essential Commodity Act) Varanasi. 
 
31.01.2008
 
1044C/44
 

 
1083C 725 Vol.5
 
2351-2354 765. 
 
Copy of paper no. 4C, Nagar Nigam Appeal No. 58/2000, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/45
 

 
(1084C) 726 Vol.5
 
2355-2361 766. 
 
Copy of the judgment in Nagar Nigam Appeal No. 58/2000, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi. 
 
15.09.2008 
 
1045C/46
 

 
1085C 727 Vol.5
 
2362-2366 767. 
 
Copy of the vakalatnama in Nagar Nigam Appeal No. 58/2000, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/47
 

 
(1085C) 727 Vol.5
 
2367-2369 768. 
 
Copy of memo of appeal in Nagar Nigam Second Appeal No. 157/2008, Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/48
 

 
1086C 728 Vol.5
 
2370-2385 769. 
 
Copy of the complete order-sheet in Nagar Nigam Second Appeal No. 157/2008, Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi.
 

 
1044C/49
 

 
(1087C) 729 Plff./Rspdt
 

 
Vol.5 2386 770. 
 
Copy of the vakalatnama in Nagar Nigam Second Appeal No. 157/2008, Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs Nagar Nigam Varanasi, in the Court of First Additional District Judge, Varanasi.
 

 
1044C/50
 

 
(1088C) 730 Vol.5
 
2387-2398 771. 
 
Copy of the order-sheet in Suit No. 122/96 Balyogi Narendra Chaitanya Vs Swami Shambhwanand in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) II, Varanasi.
 

 
1044C/51
 

 
1089C 731 Vol.5 2399 772. 
 
Copy of the plaint in the Suit No. 122/96 Balyogi Narendra Chaitanya Vs Swami Shambhwanand in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) II, Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/52
 

 
1090C 732 Vol.5
 
2400-2407 773. 
 
Copy of the plaint in Suit No. 321/98 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs Swami Shmbhawanand Sarswati , in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) I, Varanasi.
 

 

 

 
1091C 733 774. 
 
Copy of the written statement in Suit No. 321/98 Jagatguru Shankaracharya Swami Narendranand Sarswati Vs Swami Shmbhawanand Sarswati , in the Court of Civil Judge (Senior Division) I, Varanasi.
 

 
1044C/54
 

 
1092C 734 Vol.5
 
2408-2412 775. 
 
Copy of judgment 
 
8.10.1999
 
1044C/55
 

 
1093C 735 Vol.5
 
2413-2418 776. 
 
Copy of plaint in Suit No. 13/94, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Swami Shmbhawanand Sarswati , in the Munsif Court, city Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/56
 

 
1094C 736 Vol.5
 
2419-2426 777. 
 
Copy of application 6C and disposal thereof, in the Suit No. 93/94, Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati Vs Swami Shmbhawanand Sarswati , in the Court of Civil Judge (Junior Division), Varanasi.
 
6.9.1995
 
1044C/57
 

 
1095C 737 Vol.5
 
2427-2428 778. 
 
Copy of memo appeal 4A, in Misc. Appeal No. 286/95, Swami Shmbhawanand Sarswati Vs Swami Chinmayanand Sarswati in the Court of District Judge, Varanasi. 
 

 
1044C/58
 

 
1096C 738 Plff./Rspdt
 

 
Vol.5 2429 779. 
 
Certified photocopy of application in O.A. No. 30 of 2005 : Uco Bank Vs. M/s Maya Cosmetics and Others in the DRT, Allahabad
 
27.10.2007
 
1154C/1 
 
to 
 
1154C/3 739 780. 
 
Certified copy of affidavit sworn by Ram Chandra Mishra in O.A. No. 30 of 2005, Uco Bank Vs. M/s Maya Cosmetics and Others in the DRT, Allahabad
 
27.10.2007
 
1155C/1 
 
to 
 
1155C/3 740 781. 
 
Certified copy of application for specimen signature in O.A. No. 30 of 2005 : Uco Bank Vs. M/s Maya Cosmetics and Others in the DRT, Allahabad
 
28.08.2007
 
1156C/1
 
to
 
1156C/12 741 782. 
 
Certified copy of order sheet in O.A. No. 30 of 2005, Uco Bank Vs. M/s Maya Cosmetics and Others in the DRT, Allahabad
 
27.05.2013
 
1157C/1
 
to
 
1157C/2 742 783. 
 
Certified copy of order sheet in O.A. No. 30 of 2005, Uco Bank Vs. M/s Maya Cosmetics and Others in the DRT, Allahabad
 
02.07.2007
 
1158C/1
 
to
 
1158C/2 743 784. 
 
Certified photocopies of order sheets in Original Suit No. 513/89, Swami Swaroopanand Vs. Swami Vasudevanand
 
10.11.1989
 
to
 
2.12.2006
 
(14.2.2007)
 
1160C/2
 
to
 
1160C/77 744 785. 
 
Two photographs at the time of nomination of Jyotishpeeth-adheeshwar, Jal Abhishek (anoinment) of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, being performed by Vedic Brahmins. In the photo, Swami Maheshwaranand (sitting below beside Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati), who announced his nomination
 

 
D-1 337 Vol.3 1670 786. 
 
In the middle of photo, Swami Nishchalanand Saraswati, Shankar- -acharya of Puri, welcomes Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati
 

 
D-2 338 Vol.3 1671 787. 
 
Challa Laxman Shastri, representative of Shringeri Peetha, performing Pattabhishek (investiture) of Swami Saraswati in the photograph below
 

 
D-3 339 Vol.3 1672 788. 
 
In first photograph, Karpatri Ji Maharaj and Swami Maheshwaranand Saraswati Ji announcing nomination of Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati as Shankaracharya of the Jyotishpeetha.
 
Jal Abhishek (anointment) of plaintif at Jyotishpeetha with water collected from all Teerthas (pilgrimage sites) in the midst of vedic hymns, in the photograph below.
 

 
D-4 340 Vol.3 1673 789. 
 
In both the photographs, photo of the plaintiff chairing the Kashi Vidwat Sabha and photo of the scholars of the Vidwat Parishad leaving the Sabha
 

 
D-5 341 Vol.3 1674 790. 
 
Photograph of the Chatushpeetha Sammelan of all the four Peethas at Shringeripeeth in which Jyotishpeeth was represented by Swami Swaroopanand, Shringeripeeth was represented by Swami Abhinav Vidya Teerth, Puri Peeth was represented by Niranjan Dev Teerth and Sharda Peeth was represented by Swami Abhinav Sachchidanand Teerth. In the photo below, plaintiff sitting with Sachchidanand Teerth.
 

 
D-16 352 Vol.3 1685 791. 
 
In the photographs, above and below, Swami Swaroopanand sitting with Shringeripeethadheesh-war Swami Bharti Teerth
 

 
D-17, D18 353 354 Vol.3 1686 792. 
 
Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Awadh-eshanand Ji Maharaj of Joona Akhara with Swami Swaroopanand and in the middle of photograph he is garlanding.
 

 
D-19 355 Vol.3 1688 793. 
 
Swami Swaroopanand sitting with Shankaracharya of Puri Peeth, and Agnipeethadheeshwar Ji and Kashi Peethadheeshwar and other Sadhu-Sants are also sitting. In the photograph below, plaintiff is sitting with Swami Abhinav Vidya Teerth, Shankaracharya of Shringeri Peetha
 

 
D-20 356 Vol.3 1689 794. 
 
The photograph when Abhishek of plaintiff was done as Dwarika Peethadheeshwar, the then Shringeripeethadheesh-war performing Abhishek of Abhinav Vidya Teerth
 

 
D-21 357 Vol.3 1690 795. 
 
Having conversation with Abhinav Vidya Teerth
 

 
D-22 358 Vol.3 1691 796. 
 
Present Peethadheeshwar of Shringeripeeth sitting and conversing with the plaintiff
 

 
D-23 359 Vol.3 1692 797. 
 
Photographs of the plaintiff with Puri Peethadheeshwar and Shringeri -peethadheeshwar in various Programmemes. In second photograph, Swami Karpatri Ji applying tilak on Krishanbodhashram
 

 
D-24, 25, 26 & 27 360 361 362 363 Vol.3
 
1693 to 1696 798. 
 
Photograph with Central Minister Vidya Charan Shukla. In second photograph, plaintiff with Prime Minister P.V. Narsimha Rao and in the third photograph with Vice President Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma
 

 
D-34 370 Vol.3 1703 799. 
 
Photograph with Mandan Mishra, Vice chancellor of Sampoornanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya.In photograph below, Charan Poojan (feet worship) of the plaintiff by Ram Jeth Malani
 

 
D-35 371 Vol.3 1704 800. 
 
Charan Poojan (feet worship) of the plaintiff by senior leader Pandit Lokpati Tripathi In the photo below, with members of the Kashi Vidwat Parishad
 

 
D-39 375 Vol.3 1708 801. 
 
In the photo below, President of Kashi Vidwat Parishad Pandit Kedarnath Tripathi getting blessings (Ashirvad) from plaintiff
 

 
D-41 377 Vol.3 1710 802. 
 
In the first photo, President of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad Shri Mahant Gyan Das Ji receiving blessings from plaintiff
 

 
D-42 378 Vol.3 1711 803. 
 
In first photo, plaintiff with the Chief Minister Digvijay Singh and in the second photo, with the Vice Chancellor Rajendra Mishra
 

 
D-46 382 Vol.3 1715 804. 
 
Gorakhpur's Vice chancellor Dr. R.K. Mishra Ji
 

 
D-47 383 Vol.3 1716 805. 
 
In second photograph, Chief Minister Shri Ajeet Jogi receiving Ashirvaad (blessings) from the plaintiff. In the photo below, Rajendra Mishra, Legal Advisor to plaintiff offering banana to Ajeet Jogi. 
 

 
D-48 384 Vol.3 1717 806. 
 
Kashi Naresh receiving blessings from plaintiff
 

 
D-49 385 Vol.3 1718 807. 
 
In the first photograph, President of Kashi Vidwat Parishad receiving blessings from plaintiff and in the second photograph, Justice Girdhar Malviya receiving blessings from him
 

 
D-67 403 Vol.3 1736 808. 
 
In both the photographs, Kashi Naresh greeting the plaintiff
 

 
D-68 404 Vol.3 1737 809. 
 
Distinguished Muslim persons obtaining instructions from the plaintiff in Ganga Safai Abhiyaan
 

 
D-69 405 Vol.3 1738 810. 
 
In second photograph, Jai Prakash Sitlani, Minister of Minority Affairs, Pakistan, receiving blessings 
 

 
D-70 406 Vol.3 1739 811. 
 
In its third photograph, the plaintiff with Puri Peethadheshwar at Kumbh in Ujjain
 

 
D-73 408 Vol.3 1742 812. 
 
Jagad Guru Ramanandacharya garlanding the plaintiff. In second photograph, garlanding by Mahamandaleshwar of Agni Akhara.
 
In third photograph, garlanding by President of Joona Akhara, Parmanand Saraswati and Shri Awadheshanand Giri Ji is beside him
 

 
D-75 410 Vol.3 1744 813. 
 
In its third photograph, with Awadheshanand Giri, Mathadheesh of Joona Akhara
 

 
D-76 411 Vol.3 1745 814. 
 
Charan Poojan (feet worship) of the plaintiff by the President, Agni Akhara In second photograph, Dr. Vishwanath Shastri welcomes the plaintiff. In third photograph, Mantri of Joona Akhara Hari Giri welcomes the plaintiff
 

 
D-77 412 Vol.3 1746 815. 
 
Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Ajeet Jogi welcomes the plaintiff
 

 
D-80 415 Vol.3 1749 Appendix-"D" Defendant-appellant's Documentary Evidence 
 
	
 
Sl. No.
 
Details of documents 
 
Paper No.
 

 

 
Deft/appellant paper book 
 

 
Vol. & Part 
 

 
S. No.
 
Details of document
 
Date
 
Paper No. 
 
Ext. Copy of plaint in OS no.36 of 1965 
 
30.1.1965
 
871C
 
(43/C)
 
126 ka
 
III(I)
 
deft/ appellant. 16-21 1. 
 
Copy of judgment in Original Suit No.36 of 1965 (Munsif West Allahabad), Swami Shantanand Ji Mahraj Vs. Swami Krishna Bodhashram and two others, decided by Court of Vth Civil and Sessions Judge, Allahabad 
 
 and 
 

 
copy of abatement order in Civil Appeal 59/1970
 

 
15.01.1970
 
45-C/2 to 45-Ga/52
 
127 ka
 
III(I)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
III(I)
 
33-114
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
115-122 2. 
 
Certified copy of plaint of Original Suit No. 1A/1974 Jagat Guru Shankaracharya vs. Ram Ji Tripathi, Court of District and Sessions Judge/JSCC, Allahabad
 
28.06.1974
 
69C/1 to 69C/25
 
128 ka
 
III(I)
 
123-134 3. 
 
Certified copy of written statement in aforesaid original suit in 1A of 1974
 
30.10.1979
 
70C/1 to 70C/31
 
129 ka
 
III(I)
 
135-155 4. 
 
Certified copy of order passed by Hon'ble High Court, Allahabad in FAFO No. 20/56 Swami Swaroopananad Saraswati vs. Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati
 
31.07.1959 
 
164C
 
130 ka 5. 
 
Certified copy of Bank statement of November 1998 in favour of Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, Jyotispeethadheeshwar
 

 
165C
 
131 ka 6. 
 
Copy of extract of news paper Aaj 
 
29.11.1998
 
166C
 
132 ka 7. 
 
Certified copy of judgement passed by Additional District Judge, Varanasi in Original Suit No. 3 of 1954 Swami Parmatanand Saraswati and others Vs. Sri Ramji Tripathi 20.10.1962 
 
158C/172
 
11 ka
 
III(I)
 
186-338 8. 
 
Copy of Khasra, Nagar Maha Palika, Allahabad in respect of house no.15/56, Alopi Bagh, Allahabad
 
09.11.1990
 
292C
 
1-Ka 9. 
 
Copy of Khasra, Nagar Maha Palika, Allahabad in respect of house no.169/107, Bahadurganj, Allahabad
 

 
293C
 
2-Ka 10. 
 
Copy of Khasra, Nagar Maha Palika, Allahabad in respect of house no.228/174, Bahadurganj, Allahabad
 

 
294C
 
3-Ka 11. 
 
Copy of Khasra, Nagar Maha Palika, Allahabad in respect of house no.13/55, Alopi Bagh, Allahabad
 

 
295C
 
4-Ka 12. 
 
Typed copy of will deed by Swami Shantanand
 
17.04.1989
 
296C/1 to 296C/5
 
5-Ka
 
III(I)
 
339-352 13. 
 
Photocopy of signatures of Prayag Vidvat Parishad, saints and followers present at the time of Abhishek 
 

 
297C/1 to 297C/6
 
133 ka 14. 
 
Photocopy of signatures of Prayag Vidvat Parishad, saints and followers present at the time of Abhishek 
 

 
298C/1 to 298C/7
 
134 ka 15. 
 
Photocopy of signatures of Jyotirmath Vidvat Parishad, saints and followers present at the time of Abhishek 
 

 
299C/1 and 299C/2
 
135 ka 16. 
 
Photo at the time of Abhishek Tilak of the office of Jyotispeeth- adheeshwar 
 

 
300C/1 to 300C/24
 
136 ka 17. 
 
Paper Jyotispeethadheeshwar
 
Mahotsav 
 

 
301C
 
136 ka 18. 
 
Copy of writ petition no. 24085 of 2000, Jagat Guru Shankaracharya 
 
Vs. Additional District Judge, Allahabad and others 
 

 
302C
 
137 ka
 
Vol.III
 
(Part II)
 

 
Deft/ applnt. PB
 
433-773 19. 
 
Copy of judgment and order in petition no. 24085 of 2000
 
23.1.2004
 

 
137 ka
 
Vol. III
 
Part II
 
774-811 20. 
 
Copy of will by Swami Brahmanand Saraswati
 
18.12.1952
 
378C
 
138 ka
 
III(I)
 
156-185 21. 
 
Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati sitting on Main Seat (Gaddi)
 

 
508C/14
 
139 ka 22. 
 
Krishna Kant Chaturvedi delivering speech in Pra. Sammelan, Jabalpur in the presence of Jyotispeethadheeshwar 
 

 
508C/15
 
140 ka 23. 
 
Popatacharya Sri Ram Sajeewan Manager in Pra. Sammelan, Jabalpur with Jyotispeeth-adheeshwar 
 

 
508C/16
 
6 ka 24. 
 
Digital photo dated 14.11.1989
 

 
508C/A-16-I
 
6-Ka 25. 
 
Enthroned Abhinav Shankaracharya Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati
 

 
508C/16/A-16-II
 
69-Ka 26. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati being honoured by Rajendra Trivedi
 

 
508C/17
 
7 ka 27. 
 
Taking Sankalp at the time of installation
 

 
508C/A-17-II
 
70-Ka 28. 
 
Digital Photo at the time of installation 
 
14.11.1989
 
508C/A-17-I
 
7-Ka 29. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati preaching in Sanskrit Sammelan
 

 
508C/18
 
8 ka 30. 
 
Photo digital at the time of installation 
 
14.11.1989
 
508C/A-18-I 31. 
 
Photo digital at the time of installation 
 
14.11.1989
 
508C/A-18-II
 
71-Ka 32. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya in the midst of counselors, speaking to Br. Somnath, Ramendra Tiwari regarding arrangement
 

 
508C/19 33. 
 
Photo digital at the time of installation 
 

 
508C/A-19-I
 
9-Ka 34. 
 
Photo digital garlanding new Shankaracharya
 

 

 
508C/A-20-II
 
10 ka 35. 
 
Photo digital, on the occasion of Installation, garlanding. 508C/A 21-I
 
11-Ka 36. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vishnudevanand Saraswati, speaking in Pr. Vidvat Parishad 
 

 
508C/22 37. 
 
Photo digital Installation (Pattabhishek), Garlanding
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-22-II
 
12-Ka 38. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-23-I
 
13-Ka 39. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-23-II
 
75-Ka 40. 
 
Sri Motilal Shastri getting honour and blessings from Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya in Sanskrit Sammelan
 

 
508C/24
 
141-ka 41. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-24-I
 
14-Ka 42. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-24-II
 
76-Ka 43. 
 
Sri Krishna Kant Chaturvedi speaking in Pr. Sanskrit Sammelan
 

 
508C/25
 
142-ka 44. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-25-I
 
15-Ka 45. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-25-II
 
77-Ka 46. 
 
Digital photo 
 

 
508C/A-26
 
16-Ka 47. 
 
Digital photo at the time of installation of Jagatguru
 
21.11.1989
 
508C/A-27
 
17-Ka 48. 
 
Maharshi Mahesh Yogi worshiping Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya 
 

 
508C/28 49. 
 
Digital photo 
 
21.11.1989
 
508C/A-28
 
18-Ka 50. 
 
Digital photo 
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-29
 
19-Ka 51. 
 
Digital photo 
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/A-30
 
20-Ka 52. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya sitting on main Seat (throne) 
 

 
508C/31 53. 
 
Digital photo 
 
12.11.1989
 
508C/A-31
 
21-Ka 54. 
 
Jyotispeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya sitting on main Seat (throne) alongwith local scholars 
 

 
508C/32 55. 
 
Digital photo 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-32
 
22-Ka 56. 
 
Digital photo 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-33
 
23-Ka 57. 
 
Digital photo 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-34
 
24-Ka 58. 
 
Digital photo 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-35
 
25-Ka 59. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-36
 
26-Ka 60. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-37
 
27-Ka 61. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-38
 
28-Ka 62. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-39
 
29-Ka 63. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-40
 
30-Ka 64. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-41
 
31-Ka 65. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-42
 
32-Ka 66. 
 
Photo digital
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-43-I
 
33-Ka 67. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-44
 
34-Ka 68. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-45
 
35-Ka 69. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-46
 
36-Ka 70. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek of New Shankaracharya
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-47-I
 
78-Ka 71. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek of New Jyotishpeethadheeshwar 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-47-I
 
78-Ka 72. 
 
Photo digital, Pattabhishek of New Jyotishpeethadheeshwar 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-47-II
 
79-Ka 73. 
 
Photo digital, New Jyotishpeethadheeshwar 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-48-I
 
80-Ka 74. 
 
Photo digital, New Jyotishpeethadheeshwar 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-48-II
 
81-Ka 75. 
 
Photo digital, New Jyotishpeethadheeshwar 
 
22.11.1989
 
508C/A-49-I
 
82-Ka 76. 
 
Photo digital
 
28.11.1989
 
508C/A-49-II
 
62-Ka 77. 
 
Photo digital
 

 
508C/A-50-I
 
63-Ka 78. 
 
Digital photo 
 
23.11.1989
 
508C/A-51
 
122-Ka 79. 
 
Eminent scholar of Prayag, Pandit Krishna Dev Pathak and Natthu Lal Dixit applying Tilak and garlanding new Peethadishwar on the occasion of Pattabhishek (coronation/installation) 
 

 
508C/52 80. 
 
Jyotirmath Nagar Shobha Yatra, Photo digital, 
 
28.11.1989
 
508C/A-52-I
 
95-Ka 81. 
 
Photo digital, main seat of Jyotirmath
 

 
508C/A-53-I
 
64-Ka 82. 
 
Photo digital, sitting on main seat, Peethadheeshwar
 

 
508C/A-53-II
 
65-Ka 83. 
 
Digital photo, Jyotirmath, JoshiMath, Nrisingh Mandir 
 

 
508C/A-54
 
123-Ka 84. 
 
Dandi Sanyasi Samaj, scholars and journalists etc., present on the occasion of Pattabhishek (coronation/installation) of new Shankaracharya 
 

 
508C/55
 
143-ka 85. 
 
Sri Mahant Manohar Puri Ji of Joona Akhara welcoming new Shankaracharya and Dr. Shivarchan Prasad conversing, on the occasion of Pattabhishek (coronation/installation)
 

 
508C/56
 
144-ka 86. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya Sri Swami Shantanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj; performing Pattabhishek (coronation/installation) ceremony of new Jyotispeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati. 
 

 
508C/57
 
145-ka 87. 
 
Representative of Mahanirvani Akhara, Mahants of Alopi Devi and Niranjani Akhara, performing Pattabhishek (coronation/ installation) ceremony of new Jyotispeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati.
 

 
508C/58
 
146-ka 88. 
 
Shobha Yatra in Sanganer, Jaipur
 

 
508C/A-58-II
 
120-Ka 89. 
 
Devotees and citizen present in Arvind Vidya Mandir Jaipur Temple, worshiiping Jagatguru
 

 
508C/A-59-I
 
121-Ka 90. 
 
Scene of Nagar Shobha Yatra in Varanasi on the occasion of Abhishek of Jyotispeeth- adheeshwar 
 

 
508C/60
 
147-ka 91. 
 
Representatives of Vaishnav Akhara performing Pattabhishek of Shankaracharya 
 
15.11.1989
 
508C/61
 
148-ka 92. 
 
Engineer Sri Rang Nath Dubey offering Patta to Shankaracharya 
 

 
508C/62
 
149-ka 93. 
 
Sri Vigyan Ji, Mahant of Ramajuj Sect, garlanding and performing Pattabhishek of Jyotispeeth- -adheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya 
 

 
508C/63 94. 
 
Photo digital 1998 508C/A-63-I
 
96-Ka 95. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998 1998 508C/A-63-II
 
97-Ka 96. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998, on the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh, Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, 
 

 
508C/A-64-I
 
98-Ka 97. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998 on the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-64-II
 
99-Ka 98. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998, on the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-65-I
 
100-Ka 99. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998, on the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-65-II
 
101-Ka 100. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998, on the occasion of Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-66-I
 
102-Ka 101. 
 
Photo digital, year 1998, on the occasion of Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-66-II
 
103-Ka 102. 
 
Jyotishpeethadhiswar Jagatguru whiole entering in the camp of Shobha Yatra, Photo 
 

 
508C/A-67-I
 
104-Ka 103. 
 
Peshwai in Haridwar Kumbh, Photo digital
 

 
508C/A-67-II
 
105-Ka 104. 
 
Peshwai in Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-68-I
 
106-Ka 105. 
 
Peshwai Shobha Yatra in Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-68-II
 
107-Ka 106. 
 
On the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-69-I
 
108-Ka 107. 
 
On the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/A-69-II
 
109-Ka 108. 
 
On the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh in 1998
 

 
508C/A-70-I
 
110-Ka 109. 
 
On the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh in 1998
 

 
508C/A-70-II
 
111-Ka 110. 
 
On the occasion of Haridwar Kumbh in 1998
 

 
508C/A-71
 
112-Ka 111. 
 
Dr. Shivarchan Upadhyay with Maharaj Shree sitting on throne along with counselors in Shobha Yatra (procession) in Varanasi after Abhishek (coronation/installation) of New Shankaracharya
 

 
508C/72
 
150-ka 112. 
 
Maharaj Shree alongwith counselors entering the Ashram after returning from Nagar Shobha Yatra pursuant to Abhishek (coronation/installation) of New Shankaracharya
 

 
508C/73
 
151-ka 113. 
 
Enthroned New Shankarcharaya alongwith counselors addressing Vidvat Sabha, Varanasi after Abhishek (coronation/installation) 
 

 
508C/74
 
152-ka 114. 
 
Maharaj Shree addressing congregation of Vidvat Sabha and on his left side is sitting Senior Shankarachaya.
 

 
508C/75
 
153-ka 115. 
 
Pt. Karuna Pati Tripathi, eminent scholar and chancellor, Sanskrit Vishvavidyalaya Varanasi, Pt. Ram Prasad Tripathi, Pt. Dev Swaroop Misra and other scholars, present in Vidvat Sabha Kashi 
 

 
508C/76
 
154-ka 116. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya in Varanasi consulting Pt. Bhupendra Pati Tripathi, renowned scholar of Kashi and residents of Ashram after Abhishek 
 

 
508C/77
 
155-ka 117. 
 
Pt. Ram Preet Tripathi Head of Department of S. Sanskrit University and President of Kashi Vidvat Parishad, Karuna Pati Tripathi and other Learned persons addressing on the occasion of Varanasi Vidvat Sabha 
 

 
508C/78
 
156-ka 118. 
 
Dr. Paras Nath Dwivedi and Karuna Pati Tripathi delivering Welcome speech on the occasion of Kashi Vidvat Sabha 
 

 
508C/79
 
157-ka 119. 
 
Pt. Ram Prasad Tripathi and Pt. Dev Swaroop famous scholar of Kashi addressing congregation on the occasion of Vidvat Sabha
 

 
508C/80
 
158-ka 120. 
 
Pt. Dev Swaroop Misra, Pt. Karuna Pati Tripathi, Pt. Ram Prasad Tripathi and Pt. Raj Narain Tripathi addressing congregation and delivering speech in Kashi on the occasion of Vidvat Sabha
 

 
508C/81
 
159-ka 121. 
 
Brahmchari Mauni Ji, a learned scholar of Kashi reading out welcome speech on the occasion of Vidvat Sabha
 

 
508C/82
 
160-ka 122. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya present in Kashi Vidvat Sabha and Karuna Pati Tripathi, Pt. Ram Prasad Tripathi and Pt. Dev Swaroop Misra addressing the congregation
 

 
508C/83
 
161-ka 123. 
 
Bharti Mata hailing from Landon welcoming Maharaj Shree on the occasion of Vidvat Sabha
 

 
508C/84
 
162-ka 124. 
 
Former Secretary of Vidvat Parishad conferring blessings to son of Pt. Raj Narain Shukla 
 

 
508C/85
 
163-ka 125. 
 
Pt. Vayunandan Misra garlanding enthroned Maharaj Shree 
 

 
508C/86
 
164-ka 126. 
 
Scholar's of Kashi saluting enthroned Maharaj Shree 
 

 
508C/87
 
165-ka 127. 
 
Maharaj Shree speaking in Kashi Vidvat Sabha in Sanskrit Language 
 

 
508C/88
 
166-ka 128. 
 
Maharaj Shree enthroned on permanent Seat of Jyotishpeeth Shankaracharya in Kashi 
 

 
508C/89
 
167-ka 129. 
 
Brahmchari Mauni Ji performing Aarti of Peethadheeshwar Maharaj Shree in Siddh Giribagh Ashram, Kashi 
 

 
508C/90
 
168-ka 130. 
 
Maharaj Shree surrounded by followers after Abhishek (installation) and worship in Kashi
 

 
508C/91
 
169-ka 131. 
 
Senior citizen of Lucknow Pt. Dayashankar Pandey garlanding after worshiping on the occasion of Abhishek (installation) 
 

 
508C/92
 
170-ka 132. 
 
Scholars of Kashi presenting book authored by them on the occasion of Abhishek (installation)
 

 
508C/93
 
171-ka 133. 
 
Pt. Karuna Pati Tripathi, eminent scholar of Kashi, garlanding Maharaj Shree after worship, on the occasion of Abhishek (installation)
 

 
508C/94
 
172-ka 134. 
 
Mauni Ji Brahmchari performing Aarti and Poojan after after Abhishek (installation) and Mahanth Shree Govindanand Brahmchari, Secretary Panch Agni Akhara and others, performing Poojan and welcome
 

 
508C/95
 
173-ka 135. 
 
Shree Dayashankar Pandey greeting new Jyotispeethadheeshwar by applying Tilak on the occasion of Abhishek 
 

 
508C/96
 
174-ka 136. 
 
Pt. Raj Narain Tripathi and Mahant of Panch Agni Akhara, Br. Govindanand and others, offering greetings and paying tribute after Abhishek in Kashi 
 

 
508C/97
 
175-ka 137. 
 
Maharaj Shree inspecting Bhandara after Abhishek (installation), Mahants of Akharas, saints and Dandi Sanyasis taking Prasad in Bhandara in Kashi
 

 
508C/98
 
176-ka 138. 
 
Maharaj Shree making survey of Dandi Sanyasis taking Prasad in Bhandara after Abhishek (installation), Senior Shankaracharya Swami Shantanand Saraswati sitting beside him. 
 

 
508C/99
 
177-ka 139. 
 
Dandi Sanyasis taking aforesaid Prasad. 508C/100
 
178-ka 140. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya and Mauni Ji Brahmchari surveying Bhandara. 508C/101
 
179-ka 141. 
 
Dandi Swami Sect departing from Bhandara after taking Prasad from (A feast for all who come even without invitation)
 

 
508C/102
 
179-ka 142. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya supervising Bhandara arrangement in Kashi alongwith Secretary of Panch Agni Akhara, namely, Mahant Sri Govindanand, Swami Bhadranand, 
 
and Radhey Shyam Mishra
 

 
508C/103
 
180-ka 143. 
 
Abhinav Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati at the time of Pattabhishek (coronation/ enthronement)
 

 
508C/104
 
181-ka 144. 
 
A devotee greeting at the time of Pattabhishek
 

 
508C/105
 
182-ka 145. 
 
Mahant Sri proceeding for Jyotirmath Nagar Shobha Yatra (city procession) alongwith Parshads (counselors) 
 

 
508C/106
 
183-ka 146. 
 
Mahant Sri sitting on chariot-throne alongwith Parshads (counsellors) at the time of Jyotirmath Nagar Shobha Yatra (city procession)
 

 
508C/107
 
184-ka 147. 
 
Senior Shankaracharya giving instructions for Nagar Shobha Yatra. 508C/108
 
185-ka 148. 
 
Sri Shankaracharya Ji Mahraj, having Darshan of Lord Nrisingh, at the time of Jyotirmath Nagar Shobha Yatra (city procession)
 
 
 
508C/109
 
186-ka 149. 
 
Maharaj Ji alongwith his followers entering the temple for Darshan of Narsingh Bhagwan
 

 
508C/110
 
186-ka 150. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Ji Mahraj sitting on main seat alongwith Parshads (counsellors) 
 

 
508C/111
 
187-ka 151. 
 
Br. Mauni Ji and devotees worshipping Maharajji seated on main seat (gaddi)
 

 
508C/112
 
188-ka 152. 
 
Maharajsri sitting near idol of Shankaracharya in Nrisingh Temple 
 

 
508C/113
 
189-ka 153. 
 
Yatis and devotees sitting near Maharaj Sri in Nrisingh Temple 
 

 
508C/114
 
190-ka 154. 
 
Shankaracharya Ji Maharaj, sitting right alongwith all Acharyas (Teachers) participating in Swarn Patotswa Jayanti Dharm Sammelan organized by Nimbarkacharya Sri Radha Sarveshwar Sharav Ji Maharaj
 

 
508C/115
 
191-ka 155. 
 
Sri Mahraj Ji, presiding over 6th Dharma Sansad Adhiveshan, Kashi, 
 

 
508C/116
 
192-ka 156. 
 
Sri Mahraraj Ji sitting alongwith Parshads on the stage of Jaipur Chaturmas Gomata Dharm Sammelan and Panchkhand Peethadheeshwar Acharya Dharmendra Ji sitting beside him.
 

 
508C/117
 
193-ka 157. 
 
Acharya Dharmendra presenting photograph of Lord Krishna to Sri Mahraraj Ji while sitting on Seat (Singhasan).
 

 
508C/118
 
194-ka 158. 
 
Sri Mahraraj Ji sitting before devotees in Training Camp of Swami Balendu Giri in Arvind Vidya Mandir, Jaipur
 

 
508C/119
 
195-ka 159. 
 
Sri Shankaracharya Ji Mahraraj sitting on chariot in Shobha Yatra, organized by Swami Balendu Giri Yog Prashikshan Shivir, Sanganer, Jaipur. 
 

 
508C/120
 
196-ka 160. 
 
Mahraraj Sri sitting on chariot in Poorvottar Shobha Yatra, in Maharaj Sri Arvind Vidya Mandir Jaipur and devotees of Forces and residents, performing Aarti of Jagat Guru Shankaracharya, a scene of Sanganer, Jaipur's Nagar Shobha Yatra.
 

 
508C/121
 
197-ka 161. 
 
Emotionally overwhelmed Senior Jyotishpeethadheeshwar seated on throne and Sri Ashok Singhal, paying tribute in Tribute Ceremony. 
 

 
508C/122
 
198-ka 162. 
 
Swami Gopal Ji, Ashram Naini, sitting beside Maharaj Ji, paying tribute in Tribute Ceremony. 
 

 
508C/123
 
199-ka 163. 
 
Sri Rang Nath Dubey, sitting beside Maharaj Ji, paying tribute in Tribute Ceremony. 
 

 
508C/124
 
200-ka 164. 
 
Mahraj Sri seated on throne and scholars of Prayag in Tribute Ceremony. 508C/125
 
201-ka 165. 
 
Maharaj Sri alongwith his followers, observing Mahants of Akharas and distinguished saints who were taking Prasad in Tribute Ceremony, Prayag.
 

 
508C/126
 
202-ka 166. 
 
Maharaj Ji seated on throne in Peshwai Shobha Yatra, organized by Panch Dasnaam Joona Akhara in Haridwar Kumbh in the year 1998
 

 
508C/127
 
203-ka 167. 
 
Surging crowd for Darshan of Maharaj Ji in Shobha Yatra (procession) in Haridwar Kumbh.
 

 
508C/128
 
204-ka 168. 
 
Maharaj Ji seated on throne in Shobha Yatra organized by Panch Dasnaam Joona Akhara in Haridwar Kumbh in the year 1998
 

 
508C/129
 
205-ka 169. 
 
Maharaj Ji seated on throne along with followers in Peshwai Shobha Yatra, organized by Panch Dasnaam Joona Akhara and Kotwal Naga Sanyasi, in Haridwar Kumbh
 

 
508C/130
 
206-ka 170. 
 
Mahant Parmanand Ji, Former Secretary and Karvati and Br. Atmanand leading Peshwai Shobha Yatra in Hardwar Ardh Kumbh
 

 
508C/131
 
207-ka 171. 
 
Mahant Brahmswaroop Ji welcoming Maharaj Sri in Peshwai Shobha Yatra of Haridwar Kumbh Mela, in front of his Ashram
 

 
508C/132
 
208-ka 172. 
 
Secretary of Joona Akhara Umashankar Bharti and Brahmchari Atmanand Ji on the main gate of the camp of Peshwai Shobha Yatra of Haridwar Kumbh 
 

 
508C/133
 
209-ka 173. 
 
Main gate of Jyotirmath Shankaracharya constructed on aforesaid occasion. 508C/134
 
210-ka 174. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj and Naga Sanyasi, entering the camp after Shobha Yatra
 

 
508C/135
 
211-ka 175. 
 
Naga and Sanyasi Sects leading Peshwai Shobha Yatra in Hardwar Kumbh and surging crowd for Darshan, Enthroned Maharaj Sri moving with stick along with Naga Sanyasi of Joona Agni Avahan and devotees following them. 
 

 
508C/136
 
212-ka 176. 
 
Surging crowd for darshan of enthroned Maharaj Sri in Peshwai Shobha Yatra. 508C/137
 
213-ka 177. 
 
Enthroned Maharaj Ji alongwith counsellors, preaching in Jyotirhpeeth Shankaracharya Camp, in Haridwar Kumbh Fair 1998
 

 
508C/138
 
214-ka 178. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj, preaching in Jyotirhpeeth Shankaracharya Camp, in Haridwar Kumbh Fair 1998
 

 
508C/139
 
215-ka 179. 
 
Maharaj Sri enthroned, alongwith his counsellors, surrounded by Chharidars, saints and Nagas in his camp.
 

 
508C/140
 
216-ka 180. 
 
Group of Naga Sanyasis, saints and Mahants offering worship and prayers to enthroned Maharaj Sri on stage after completion of Peshwai Shobha Yatra in 1998 Kumbh Fair, Haridwar
 

 
508C/141
 
217-ka 181. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Brahmanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj seated on main seat (throne) of Jyotishpeeth Shankaracharya (Jyotirmath)
 

 
508C/142
 
218-ka 182. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Shantananad Saraswati Ji Maharaj seated on main seat (throne) of Jyotishpeeth Shankaracharya (Jyotirmath)
 

 
508C/143
 
219-ka 183. 
 
Jyotishpeethadheeshwar Jagat Guru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj seated on main seat (throne) of Yotishpeeth Shankaracharya (Jyotirmath)
 

 
508C/144
 
220-ka 184. 
 
Letter of gratitude from Gyanodaya Pareek Sarvajanik Samiti, Bikaner
 
19.10.2000
 
509C/1
 
83-Ka 185. 
 
Felicitation Letter
 

 
509C/2
 
84-Ka 186. 
 
Felicitation Letter
 

 
509C/3
 
85-Ka 187. 
 
Felicitation Letter
 

 
509C/4
 
86-Ka 188. 
 
Telegram of Shankaracharya of Sringeripeeth Chandra Shekher Bhartiya Teerth, 
 

 
05.06.1953
 
 509C/6 
 
221-ka 189. 
 
Felicitation Letter
 

 
509C/5
 
87-Ka 190. 
 
Felicitation Letter
 

 
509C/6
 
88-Ka 191. 
 
Telegram of Shankaracharya of Sringeripeeth Chandra Shekher Bhartiya Teerth, 
 
07.06.1953
 
509C/7
 
222-ka 192. 
 
Letter of Sri Sri Sringeri Jagat Guru Mahasansthanam, Shardapeetham 
 
02.09.1978
 
509C/8
 
223-ka 193. 
 
Letter of Badrinath Kedarnath Samiti
 
18.04.1948
 
509C/9
 
224-ka 194. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) of Second Prantiya Vidvat Sammalen 
 
04.09.1982 and 05.09.1982
 
509C/10
 

 
225-ka 195. 
 
Letter of Sri Badrinath Kedarnath Mandir Samiti
 
22.05.2001
 
509C/11
 
226-ka 196. 
 
Letter of Shankaracharya Swami Nishchalanand Saraswati Ji Maharaj to Parampujya Jagatguru Shankaracharya Sri Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati
 

 
509C/12
 
227-ka 197. 
 
Letter of Vedavyas Sabha Trust 
 
26-08-1999
 
509C/13
 
228-ka 198. 
 
Letter to Sri Pujyapad Swami 1008 Sri Jagatguru Shankaracharya Ji Maharaj
 
29-07-1998
 
509C/14
 
229-ka 199. 
 
Letter of Tirumal Tirupati Devasthanam Dharm Pracharak Parishad
 
23-12-1995
 
509C/15
 
230-ka 200. 
 
Letter of Sri Bharat Dharma Mahamandal 
 
10-04-1993
 
509C/16
 
231-ka 201. 
 
Swarn Jayanti Samahora Sabha Sri Nimbarka Peeth, Salemabad(Raj)
 

 
509C/17
 
232-ka 202. 
 
Jaipur Mahanagar Times
 
15-01-2001
 
509C/18
 
233-ka 203. 
 
Letter of Sub Divisional Magistrate, JoshiMath
 

 
509C/19
 
234-ka 204. 
 
True copy of letter of District Judge, Jabalpur, M.P. 
 

 
509C/20
 
235-ka 205. 
 
Invitation of Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh, Nepal
 
27.05.2000
 
509C/21
 
236-ka 206. 
 
Letter of Sanatan Dharma Sewa Samiti
 
19.01.1995
 
509C/22
 
237-ka 207. 
 
Letter of Vishwa Guru Ji Maharaj Yog Samrat Mahamandleshwar on the occasion of laying down foundation stone of historical Vishwaguru Ghat
 
21.10.1996
 
509C/23
 
238-ka 208. 
 
Programme in Central Jail Jaipur, organized under "Bandi Kalyan Karyakram" 209. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Hindu Chetana Samiti, Unnao
 
07.02.1999
 
509C/25
 
240-ka 210. 
 
Invitation to Sri Shankaracharya Maharaj in Programme of Swami Ram Bharti Ji Maharaj 
 
09.12.1997
 
509C/26
 
241-ka 211. 
 
Letter of Vishwa Hindu Mahasangh
 

 
509C/27
 
242-ka 212. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Durgadutt Sharma 
 
30.06.2001
 
509C/28
 
243-ka 213. 
 
Pamphlet programme
 

 
509C/B-28
 
113-Ka 214. 
 
Ramayan Mela Samiti
 

 
509C/B-30
 
114-Ka 215. 
 
Pamphlet 
 

 
509C/B-31
 
115-Ka 216. 
 
Invitation letter
 

 
509C/B-32
 
116-Ka 217. 
 
Booklet of Bharatmata Poojan Samaroh. 509C/33
 
245-ka 218. 
 
All India Sanskrit Sammelan
 
14.02.2008
 
509C/34
 
246-ka 219. 
 
Registered Letter of Akhil Bhartiya Ramayan Mela Samiti Prayag
 
03.02.2007
 
509C/35
 
246-ka 220. 
 
Letter of Allahabad Kali Bari
 
20.11.1989
 
509C/36
 
247-ka 221. 
 
Patrika Yatra Agman
 

 
509C/B-36
 
117-Ka 222. 
 
Invitation 
 
08.02.2008
 
509C/37
 
248-ka 223. 
 
Patrika 
 

 
509C/B-37
 
37-Ka 224. 
 
Book Hindu Chetana 
 

 
509C/38
 
38-Ka 225. 
 
Extract of newspaper Gandeevam
 
20.11.1989
 
509C/39
 
249-ka 226. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter)
 

 
509C/40
 
250-ka 227. 
 
Invitation Ganga Sanskrit Pravah Yatra
 
20.02.2008
 
509C/41
 
251-ka 228. 
 
Hindu Chetna magazine
 

 
509C/42
 
39-Ka 229. 
 
Bharti magazine, Guru Purnima Vishesank July 2001
 

 
509C/43
 
40-Ka 230. 
 
Panthey Kan Patrika
 

 
509C/45
 
41-Ka 231. 
 
Sri Tulsi Peeth Saurabh
 
01.03.1996
 
509C/46
 
42-ka 232. 
 
Hindu Chetna Patrika 
 
15.09.2003
 
509C/46
 
42-Ka 233. 
 
Hindu Chetna Patrika 
 
16.02.1995
 
509C/47
 
252-ka 234. 
 
Hindu Chetna Patrika 
 
01.10.1997
 
509C/48
 
253-ka 235. 
 
Bhartiya Guru Purnima, Visheshank
 
July 2001
 
509C/49
 
254-ka 236. 
 
Smarika
 

 
509C/50
 
43-Ka 237. 
 
Hindu Chetna Pakshik Patrika
 
01.09.2003
 
509C/51
 
44-ka 238. 
 
Jorata Hai Setu 
 

 
509C/52
 
45-Ka 239. 
 
Ram Setu Sanatanam 
 

 
509C/53
 
46-Ka 240. 
 
6th Dharma Sansad Kashi Smarika
 
16.03.1994
 
509C/54
 
255-ka 241. 
 
Dhrama Pravah Masik Patrika 
 
01.01.2008
 
509C/55
 
256-ka 242. 
 
Jodta Hai Setu Sri Ram Raksh Sammelan
 
30.12.2007
 
509C/56
 
257-ka 243. 
 
Ram Setu Satya Sanatanam Patrika 
 
27.05.2007
 
509C/57
 
258-ka 244. 
 
Sadhna Mandir Pran Pratistha Samaroh Smarika
 
18.05.1997
 
509C/58
 
259-ka 245. 
 
Patrika "Nai Sadi" 246. 
 
Magazine Kisan Features 
 
01.08.2003
 
509C/59
 
260-ka 247. 
 
Devarshi Shikhar Samadar Samaroh
 
22.01.2007
 
509C/60
 
261-ka 248. 
 
Sringerpuram Smarika 
 
01.11.1995
 
509C/61
 
262-ka 249. 
 
Rajim Kumbh Chhattisgarh Sarkar 2006
 

 
509C/62
 
48-Ka 250. 
 
Jyotirgamay, Jaipur 
 
14.01.1995
 
509C/63
 
263-ka 251. 
 
Shiv Sankalp
 

 
509C/64
 
49-Ka 252. 
 
Patrika "Antim Vikalp" 253. 
 
Amrit Ghat Devasur Sangram 
 
01.01.2002
 
509C/66
 
51-Ka 254. 
 
Hindu Vishwa Patrika 
 
01.03.2007
 
509C/67
 
264-ka 255. 
 
Shiv Sankalp Patrika 
 

 
509C/68
 
265-ka 256. 
 
Antim Vikalp Patrika 
 
01.07.2007
 
509C/69
 
266-ka 257. 
 
Amrit Ghat Devasur Sangram 
 
01.01.2002
 
509C/70
 
267-ka 258. 
 
Akhil Bhartiya Daddhichi (Dayama) Brahmin Mahasabha Smarika, Salasar, Rajasthan 
 
13-04-1996
 
509C/71
 
268-ka 259. 
 
Sarvabrahman Sammelan, Jabalpur Smarika,
 
20-05-1994
 
509C/72
 
269-ka 260. 
 
Lok Jagran, Nagar Nigam, Allahabad
 
1998-99
 
509C/73
 
270-ka 261. 
 
Chhadma Veshdhari Sanyasi
 

 
509C/B-73
 
118-Ka 262. 
 
Seema Sapoot Paschimi Rajasthan Ka Sahasi Saptahik Patrika
 
26-01-1995
 
509C/74
 
271-ka 263. 
 
Sri Ram Leela Smarika Daraganj, Ramleela Committee, Annual-1993
 

 
509C/75
 
272-ka 264. 
 
Letter of Thanks,Sri Gyanodaya Parikh Sarvajanik Sampati Trust, Bikaner 
 
19-10-2000
 
510 C/2 and
 
 510 C/3 
 
273-ka 265. 
 
Abhinandan (Welcome) Kashi Vidvatgan 
 
27-12-1997
 
510 C/4
 
274-ka 266. 
 
108 Kundalatmak Sri Laxmi Mahayagya, Chhatarpur, Welcome Letter by Agarwal Samaj 
 
29-10-2004
 
510 C/5
 
85-Ka 267. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) by Palanpur Sadhvi Chandraprabha Jan Kalyan Trust, Gujarat
 

 
510 C/6
 
86-Ka 268. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter), Mahant Rajendra Giri Surajgaon, Gujarat
 
13.11.2002
 
510 C/7
 
87-Ka 269. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) Brahman Sanskar Sammelan, Dharma Prachar Samiti, Mahasi Bazar, Bahraich, 
 
09.03.2007
 
510 C/8
 
88-Ka 270. 
 
Dharma Prachar Samiti, Nainital, Haldwani
 
Chaitra Krishna Chaturthi, Samvat 2062 Vikrami
 
510 C/9
 
89-Ka 271. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) 
 

 
510C/10
 
275-ka 272. 
 
Shubhabhisansan Patram (letter of appreciation) Vedic Sanskrit Pracharak Samghasya Adhikari, Sadasya evam Jaipur Rajasthan 
 
10-09-1994
 
510C/12
 
276-ka 273. 
 
Ganga Bachao Sandesh Yatra
 
29.03.2006
 
510C/13
 
277-ka 274. 
 
Abhinandan Patra (Felicitation Letter) , Dharma Prasar Samiti, Haldwani
 
Kartik Shukla Chaturthi Samvat 2061
 
510C/14
 
278-ka 275. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Varanasi
 
17.09.1990
 
511C/5 
 
279-ka 276. 
 
Indian Express, Dew Delhi
 
11.11.1990
 
511C/6
 
280-ka 277. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
24.07.1991
 
511C/7
 
281-ka 278. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Viswamitra, Kolkata and Mumbai
 
31.10.1991
 
511C/8
 
282-ka 279. 
 
Swatantra Bharat, Lucknow 
 
21.07.1991
 
511C/9
 
283-ka 280. 
 
Oswal Jyoti, Jaipur
 
May 1993
 
511C/10
 
284-ka 281. 
 
Dainik Jajran, Allahabad
 
20.10.1993
 
511C/11
 
285-ka 282. 
 
Navin Duniya, Jabalpur
 
16.02.1993
 
511C/12
 
286-ka 283. 
 
Aaj, Varanasi
 
26.03.1993
 
511C/13
 
287-ka 284. 
 
Patrika, Jaipur 
 
22.09.1994
 
511C/14
 
288-ka 285. 
 
Navbharat Times, Jaipur
 
22.09.1994
 
511C/15
 
289-ka 286. 
 
Sandhya Jyoti Darpan, Jaipur
 
04.08.1994
 
511C/16
 
290-ka 287. 
 
Vande Matram 
 
12.07.1994 to 18.07.1994
 
511C/17
 
291-ka 288. 
 
Patrika Jaipur
 
22.09.1994
 
511C/18
 
292-ka 289. 
 
Sandhya Jyoti, Jaipur
 
26.08.1994
 
511C/19
 
293-ka 290. 
 
Jabalpur Express
 
12.02.1995
 
511C/20
 
294-ka 291. 
 
Panchjanya
 
03.04.1994
 
511C/21
 
295-ka 292. 
 
Swadesh, Jabalpur
 
18.10.1995
 
511C/22
 
296-ka 293. 
 
Dainik Bhaskar, Jabalpur
 
13.12.1995
 
511C/23
 
297-ka 294. 
 
Swadesh, Jabalpur
 
12.12.1995
 
511C/24
 
298-ka 295. 
 
Dainik Bhaskar, Jabalpur
 
12.12.1995
 
511C/25
 
299-ka 296. 
 
Dainik Madhya Pradesh
 
15.12.1995
 
511C/26
 
300-ka 297. 
 
Deshbandhu, Jabalpur
 
12.12.1995
 
511C/27
 
301-ka 298. 
 
Nav Bharat, Jabalpur
 
12.12.1995
 
511C/28
 
302-ka 299. 
 
Nai Duniya
 
12.12.1995
 
511C/29
 
303-ka 300. 
 
Jansatta, Mumbai
 
28.06.1996
 
511C/30
 
304-ka 301. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
26.12.2000
 
511C/31
 
305-ka 302. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
09.12.2000
 
511C/32
 
306-ka 303. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
10.12.2000
 
511C/33
 
307-ka 304. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
22.11.2000
 
511C/34
 
308-ka 305. 
 
Hindustan, Lucknow
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/35
 
309-ka 306. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
13.01.2001
 
511C/36
 
310-ka 307. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
02.02.2001
 
511C/37
 
311-ka 308. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Kanpur
 
01.02.2001
 
511C/38
 
312-ka 309. 
 
Northern India Patrika, Allahabad
 
29.04.2001
 
511C/39
 
313-ka 310. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/40
 
314-ka 311. 
 
Rashtriya Swaroop, Lucknow
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/41
 
315-ka 312. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
12.01.2001
 
511C/42
 
316-ka 313. 
 
Amar Ujala Allahabad
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/43
 
317-ka 314. 
 
Dainik Jagran Allahabad
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/44
 
318-ka 315. 
 
Rashtriya Sahara, Lucknow
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/45
 
319-ka 316. 
 
Dainik Jagran Allahabad
 
25.01.2001
 
511C/46
 
320-ka 317. 
 
Dainik Jagran Allahabad
 
04.01.2001
 
511C/47
 
321-ka 318. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
04.01.2001
 
511C/48
 
322-ka 319. 
 
Amar Ujala Allahabad
 
04.01.2001
 
511C/49
 
323-ka 320. 
 
Amrit Prabhat, Allahabad
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/50
 
324-ka 321. 
 
Amar Ujala, Allahabad
 
09.01.2001
 
511C/51
 
325-ka 322. 
 
Dainik Bhaskar, Allahabad
 
24.02.2001
 
511C/52
 
326-ka 323. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
15.01.2001
 
511C/53
 
327-ka 324. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
25.01.2001
 
511C/54
 
328-ka 325. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad 
 
11.01.2001
 
511C/55
 
329-ka 326. 
 
Amar Ujala, Dehradun
 
08.06.2007
 
511C/56
 
330-ka 327. 
 
Dainik Bhaskar, Jaipur
 
11.06.2007
 
511C/57
 
331-ka 328. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Dehradun
 
08.06.2008
 
511C/58
 
332-ka 329. 
 
Amar Ujala, Allahabad
 
06.02.2008
 
511C/59
 
333-ka 330. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
16.12.2007
 
511C/60
 
334-ka 331. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
10.02.2008
 
511C/61
 
335-ka 332. 
 
Dainik Jagran, Allahabad
 
04.02.2008
 
511C/62
 
336-ka 333. 
 
Hindustan, Varanasi
 
12.02.2008
 
511C/63
 
337-ka 334. 
 
City Allahabad
 
10.02.2008
 
511C/64
 
338-ka 335. 
 
Aaj, Allahabad
 
17.03.1994
 
511C/65
 
339-ka 336. 
 
Swatantra Bharat, Lucknow 
 
18.03.1994900
 
511C/66
 
340-ka 337. 
 
Amrit Prabhat, Allahabad
 
12-09-2007
 
511C/67
 
341-ka 338. 
 
Jagran, Jamshedpur 
 
17-10-2007
 
511C/68
 
342-ka 339. 
 
Hindustan, Jamshedpur
 
17.10.2007
 
511C/69
 
343-ka 340. 
 
Hindustan, Allahabad 
 
10-02-2008
 
511C/70
 
344-ka 341. 
 
Will (Vasudevanand)
 

 
708A/1 to 708A/5
 
94-Ka 342. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/9
 
53-Ka 343. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/10
 
54-Ka 344. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/11
 
55-Ka 345. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/14
 
56-Ka 346. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/20
 
57-Ka 347. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/21
 
58-Ka 348. 
 
Photo digital (statement of Sri Balkrishna DW 17)
 

 
812A/26
 
59-Ka 349. 
 
Rashtriya Ramayan Mela Shringverpur Dham Prayag, Card 
 

 
812A/29
 
60-Ka 350. 
 
Photo digital 
 

 
812A/30
 
61-Ka 351. 
 
Expert Sri MM Kackar's report
 

 
839A/1 
 
124-Ka 352. 
 
Enclosures, Jyotirmath Ka Nirnay, Court of Garhwal Commissioner
 

 
889A
 
66-Ka 353. 
 
Poster Jyotirmath Sri Badrikashram 
 

 
892A/6 Enclosure 1
 
67-Ka 354. 
 
Chaturmas Vrat Mahotsava 
 
Ramayan Mahayagya
 

 
892A/7 Enclosure -2
 
68-Ka 355. 
 
Annexure-4, digital photo
 

 
900A/11
 
89-Ka 356. 
 
Annexure-5, digital photo
 

 
900A/12
 
90-Ka 357. 
 
Annexure-6, digital photo
 

 
900A/13
 
91-Ka 358. 
 
Annexure-7, digital photo
 

 
900A/14
 
92-Ka 359. 
 
Annexure-1, letter, office of Public Information Officer, Haridwar
 
18.08.2011
 
900A/6
 
93-Ka 360. 
 
Report of Sri R.K. Gupta expert. 1131C/1- -9
 
125-Ka 361. 
 
Typed copy of trust deed of BDM of year 1941
 
11/05/41
 

 

 
Vol III (I)
 
390 to 412
 

 
Alphabetical Index of Citations 
 

 
S.N.
 
Citation
 
Para no. Pages no. 1 A.G. of Bengal Vs. Prem Lal Mullick (1895) ILR 22 Cal. 788 ( PC) 436 433 2 A.S. Narayana Deekshitulu Vs. State of A.P. and others , 1996(9) SCC 548 295 241 3 Abdul Ghani VS Musammat Babni, I.L.R. 25 All. 256 687 622 4 Acharya Jagdishwaranand Avadhuta and others Vs. Commissioner of Police, Calcutta and another 1983 ( 4) SCC 522 313 250 5 Aligarh Muslim University vs. Vinay Engg. Enterprises (P) Ltd. ( 1994) 4 SCC 710 675 607 6 Alimiya Vs. Sayed Mohd. AIR 1968 Guj. 257 496 467 7 Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. Vs. Janapada Sabha Chhindwara , AIR 1964 SC 1013 528 489 8 Amba Bai and others Vs. Gopal and others ( 2001) 5 SCC 570
 
421, 422
 
425, 427 9 Anil Basudev Salgaonkar Vs. Naresh Kushali Shigaonkar ( 2009) 9 SCC 310 
 
666, 679, 680
 
596, 613, 614 10 Arjun Singh Vs. Mohindra Kumar , AIR 1964 SC 993
 
533, 534
 
493, 494 11 Asrar Ahmed Vs. Durgah Committee AIR 1947 PC 1 498 469 12 Babajirao Vs. Laxmandas 1904 ILR 28 Bom. 215 at 223 275 224 13 Bachhaj Nahar Vs Nilima Mandal and another , ( 2008) 17 SCC 491
 
695, 698
 
626, 628 14 Baiju Lal Vs. Bulak Lal , ( 1897) 24 Cal 385 510 475 15 Bal Mukandji Maharaj vs. Gokaran Singh and another , AIR 1956 All 124 144 112 16 Balmakund Vs Dalu, I.L.R. 25 All. 498 687 622 17 Bhagawati Prasad Vs Chandramaul , AIR 1966 SC 735
 
684, 686
 
617, 620 18 Bhanu Kumar Jain Vs. Archana Kumar , 2005( 1) SCC 787
 
527, 541
 
489, 502 19 Bibi Rahmani Khatoon and others Vs. Harkoo Gope and others ( 1981) 3 SCC 173
 
417, 421, 422, 424
 
422, 426, 427, 428 20 Bihar State Board of Religious Trust Vs. Mahant Sri Biseshwar Das , AIR 1971 SC 2057 267 220 21 Bijoe Emmanuel and others Vs. State of Kerala and others , 1986(3) SCC 615 317 252 22 Blair Vs. Churran ( 1939) 62 CLR 464 490 463 23 Bramchari Sidheswar Shai and others Vs. State of West Bengal AIR 1995 SC 2089
 
303, 314
 
244, 250 24 Brij Narain Singh Vs. Adya Prasad, JT 2008 (3) SC 1 460 450 25 Byathaiah (Kum) and others Vs. Pentaiah (Kum) and others, 2000 (9) SCC 191) 504 472 26 Cassomally Vs. Carrimbhoy (1911) 36 Bom. 214 478 459 27 Chand Kaur vs. Partab Singh ( 1987-88) 15 Indian Appeals, 156 674 607 28 Chandu Lal Vs. Khalilur Rahman , AIR 1950 P.C. 17 472 455 29 Chattar Singh Vs. Thakur Prasad Singh AIR 1975 SC 1499
 
420, 424
 
424, 428 30 Commissioner of Central Excise Vs. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. JT 2009 (6) SC 29)
 
448, 464
 
446, 452 31 Commissioner of Endowments and others Vs. Vittal Rao and others ( 2005) 4 SCC 120 514 480 32 Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras Vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt AIR 1954 SC 282
 
290, 303, 309, 313, 321, 522
 
238, 244, 248, 249, 255, 486 33 Dadu Dayal Mahasabha, Jaipur (Trust) Vs. Mahant Ram Niwas and another , 2008(11) SCC 753
 
537, 539
 
495, 497 34 Daryao Vs. State of U.P, AIR 1961 SC 1457 527 489 35 Dhan Singh Vs. Jt. Director of Consolidation, U.P. Lucknow and others, AIR 1973 All. 283
 
471, 472
 
454, 454 36 Dhanajishaw Vs. Fforde (1887) ILR 11 Bom 649 566 519 37 Dill Vs. Watson, (1836) 2 Jones Rep. (Ir Ex) 48) 319 254 38 Dr. Subramanian Swamy vs. State of Tamil Nadu and others, 2014( 5) SCC 75
 
520, 524
 
484, 487 39 Erach Boman Khavar Vs. Tukaram Shridhar Bhat and another , 2013(15) SCC 655
 
531, 535
 
491, 495 40 Feroze Din and Ors. vs. Nawab Khan and others, AIR 1928 Lahore 432 141 111 41 Free Church of Scotland Vs. Overtoun; 1904 AC 515 319 254 42 Giyana Sambandha Pandara Sannadhi Vs. Kandasami Thambira I.L.R. 10 Mad 375
 
213, 262, 264
 
173, 216, 219 43 Gorie Gouri Naidu (Minor) and another Vs. Thandrothu Bodemma and others , AIR 1997 SC 808 473 455 44 Government of Province of Bombay Vs. Peston Ji Ardeshir Wadia AIR 1949 PC 143 501 471 45 Greater Cochin Development Authority Vs. Leelamma Valson , 2002( 2) SCC 573 527 489 46 Greedharee Doss Vs. Nandokissore Doss , Mohunt (1867) M.I.A. 405 213 174 47 Guda Vijayalakshmi Vs. Guda Ramchandra Sekhara Sastry, AIR 1981 SC 1143 479 459 48 Gulabchhand Chhotalal Parikh vs. State of Gujarat , AIR 1965 SC 1153 530 490 49 Gulam Abbas Vs. State of U.P., AIR 1981 SC 2199 452 447 50 H. Venkatachala Iyengar vs. B. N. Thimmajamma & others AIR 1959 SC 443 716 642 51 H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt and others Vs. Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and others 1979 (4) SCC 642 276 224 52 Hansraj Gupta and others Vs. Dehradun Mussorie Electric Tramway Company Ltd., AIR 1933 PC 63 484 461 53 Hari Singh vs. Firm Karam Chand-Kanshi Ram, AIR 1927 Lahore 115 140 111 54 Harkirat Singh v. Amrinder Singh (2005) 13 SCC 511 677 610 55 Hook Vs. Administrator General of Bengal 1921 (ILR) 48 (Cal.) 499 (P.C.) 450 446 56 Hope Plantations Ltd. Vs. Taluk Land Board, Peermade, JT 1998 ( 7) SC 404 
 
458, 477, 529
 
449, 458, 490 57 Iftikhar Ahmed Vs. Syed Meharban Ali 1974 (2) SCC 151 449 446 58 Imam-ud-Din and Anr. vs. Sri Ram Perbhu Dial, AIR 1928 Lahore 142 140 111 59 Jagdeo Misir Vs. Mahabir Tewari , AIR 1927 All. 803 470 454 60 Jagdish Chandra Sharma Vs. Narain Singh Saini , ( 2015) 8 SCC 615 716 642 61 Jamna Vs. Jhalli AIR 1920 All 111 412 417 62 Jamshed Ji Vs. Soonabai, ( 1909) 22 Bom 122 316 252 63 Jaswant Singh Vs. Custodian of Evacuee Property 1985 (3) SCC 648 474 455 64 Jenkins Vs. Robertson, ( 1867) LRIHL 117 454 448 65 Jitu Patnaik Vs. Sanatan Mohakud and others , ( 2012) 4 SCC 194
 
666, 681
 
596, 615 66 Jujjuvarapu Vs. Pappala , AIR 1969 A.P. 76 503 472 67 K. Ethirajan Vs. Lakshmi and others , AIR 2003 SC 4295 458 449 68 Kailasam Pillai Vs. Nataraja Thambiran and Ors. 1910 I.L.R. 33 Madras 265 264 219 69 Kalipada De Vs. Dwijapada Das , AIR 1930 PC 22 451 447 70 Kanhiya Lal Vs. Ashraf Khan AIR 1924 Alld. 355 502 471 71 Kewal Singh Vs. Smt. Lajwanti 1980 ( 1) SCC 290 501 471 72 Kidar Lall Seal and another Vs Hari Lall Seal , AIR 1952 SC 47 691 624 73 Krishna Behary Ray Vs. Bunwari Lal Ray, (1875) 1 Cal. 144 ( 146) 441 439 74 Kumaravelu Chettiar and others Vs. T.P. Ramaswami Ayyar and others , AIR 1933 PC 183 509 474 75 Kunju Kasavan Vs M.M. Philip, I.C.S. and others , AIR 1964 SC 164 694 625 76 Kusum Ingots and Alloys Ltd. Vs. Union of India and another ( 2004) 6 SCC 254
 
666, 673, 675
 
596, 606, 607 77 Lal Chand Vs. Radha Kishan , AIR 1977 SC 789=1977( 2) SCC 88 457 449 78 Lalji Sahib Vs. Munshi Lal , AIR 1943 All 340 471 454 79 Laxmi Raj Shetty and another vs. State of Tamil Nadu , 1988(3) SCC 319
 
154, 158
 
116, 119 80 M/s Radhasoami Satsang, Saomi Bagh, Agra Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax 1992 (1) SCC 659 311 249 81 Ma Fatima and others vs. Momin Bibi and others, AIR 1929 Rangoon 211 143 112 82 Madhavan Vs. Chathu AIR (38) 1951 Madras 285 502 471 83 Madhukar D. Shende Vs. Tarabai Aba Shedage , 2002( 2) SCC 85 517 481 84 Mahadeorao Sukaji Shivankar Vs. Ramaratan Bapu and others ( 2004) 7 SCC 181
 
666, 676
 
596, 608 85 Mahant Girjanand Bhagat Vs. Bhagwan Bhagat and others AIR 1967 (Patna) 101 75 68 86 Mahant Harnam Singh Vs. Gurdial Singh and another , AIR 1967 SC 1415 512 477 87 Mahendra Saree Emporium (II) VS. G.V. Srinivasa Murthy (2005) 1 SCC 481 424 428 88 Marimuthu Dikshitar v. The State of Madras and Anr., 1952( 1) MLJ 557
 
520, 522
 
485, 487 89 Mathura Prasad Sarjoo Jaiswal and others Vs. Dossibai AIR 1971 SC 2355
 
462, 463
 
450, 451 90 Matuka Mistry Vs. Kamakhaya Prasad , AIR 1958 (Patna) 264 (FB) 485 461 91 Midnapur Zamindari Company Limited Vs. Naresh Narayan Roy AIR 1922 PC 241 406 413 92 Midnapur Zamindary Co. Ltd. Vs. Kumar Naresh Narayan Roy and others , AIR 1924 P.C. 144 468 453 93 Mohammad Sher Khan Vs. Bharat Indu AIR 1928 All 59 412 417 94 Mohan Lal Vs Anandibai and others , 1971 ( 1) SCC 313 688 623 95 Mohanlal Goenka v. Benoy Kishna Mukherjee and Ors. AIR 1953 SC 65 524 488 96 Most Rev. P.M.A. Metropolitan and others Vs. Moran Mar Marthoma and another , 1995 (Supple) (4) SCC 286
 
294, 298
 
241, 243 97 Ms. Aruna Roy and others Vs. Union of India and others, JT 2002 (7) SC 103 297 242 98 Musa Vs. Manilal (1905) ILR 29 Bom 368 566 519 99 Mussammat Lachhmi Vs. Mussammat Bhulli, 1927 ILR (VIII) 384 437 434 100 Nagubai Ammal and others Vs B. Shama Rao and others, AIR 1964 SC 164 692 624 101 Nallor Marthandam Vellalar and others Vs. Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and others 2003 (10) SCC 712 312 249 102 Nana Tukaram Jaikar Vs. Sonabai Mahadav and others AIR 1982 Bom. 437 405 412 103 Nandkishore Lalbhai Mehta vs. New Era Fabrics Pvt. Ltd. and others , 2015 SCC (9) 755 148 114 104 Narayana Dutt and another Vs. Smt. Molini Devi , AIR 1964 (Rajasthan) 269 485 461 105 Nathaniel Uraon Vs. Mahadeo Uraon and others AIR 1957 Patna 511 412 416 106 Nibovet Vs. Nibovet ( 1878) P.D. (CA) 1 218 177 107 Nundo Lall Bhuttacharjee and others Vs. Bidhoo Mookhy Debee 1886 ILR 13 Cal. 17 406 413 108 Pandurang Dhondi Chougule Vs. Maruti Hari Jadhav AIR 1966 SC 153 447 446 109 Paras Nath Rai and others Vs. State of Bihar and others ( 2012 ) 12 SCC 642 423 427 110 Parthasaradi Ayyangar and others Vs. Chinnakrishna Ayyangar and others Vol. V ILR Madras Series (1882) 304 443 440 111 Pragdasji Guru Bhagwandasji Vs. Ishwarlalbhai Narsibhai 1952 SCR 513 498 469 112 Prem Narain Vs. Ram Charan and others, AIR 1932 P.C. 51 469 454 113 Priddle Vs. Napper 6 Coke IA 1777 448 446 114 Quamarul Islam vs. S.K. Kanta and others , 1994 Supp. ( 3) SCC 5
 
154, 161
 
116, 122 115 R. Venugopala Naidu and others Vs. Venkatarayulu Naidu Charities and others , AIR 1990 SC 444 512 479 116 R.V.E. Venkatachala Gounder vs. Arulmigu Viswesaraswami and V.P. Temple and another , 2003( 8) SCC 752
 
145, 147, 149, 163
 
112, 114, 114, 124 117 Radharani Vs. Binodamoyee AIR 1942 Cal. 92 478 459 118 Radhika Devi v. Bajrangi Singh and Others , AIR 1996 SC 2358: 1996 ( 7) SCC 486 665 596 119 Ragho Prasad Gupta Vs. Krishna Poddar AIR 1969 SC 316 495 465 120 Raghoonath Vs. Gobindnarain (1895) ILR 22 Cal. 451 566 519 121 Raghu Nath Vs. Shib Charan Lal (1895) ILR 17 All 174 406 413 122 Raj Narain Vs. Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi and another (1972) 3 SCC 850
 
666, 669
 
596, 600 123 Raja Gopa Chettiar Vs. Hindu Religion Endowment Board, Madras, AIR 1934 Madras 103 484 461 124 Rajah of Venkatgiri Vs. Provinces of Madras AIR (34) 1947 Madras 5 478 459 125 Rajendra Prasad Vs. Khirodhar Mahto 1994 Supp (3) SCC 314 421 426 126 Ram Adhar Singh Vs. Ramroop Singh AIR 1968 SC 714 
 
420, 424
 
424, 428 127 Ram Gobinda Daw Vs. Smt. H. Bhakta Bala Dassi, AIR 1971 SC 664 505 473 128 Ram Kirpal Vs. Rup Kuari (1883) ILR 6 (Alld.) 269 (P.C.) 444 443 129 Ram Nandan Sahay Vs. Jai Gobind Pandey AIR 1919 Pat 445 412 417 130 Ram Parkash Das Vs. Anand Das and Ors. AIR 1916 Privy Council 256 265 219 131 Ram Sarup Gupta Vs Bishun Narain Inter College, AIR 1987 SC 1242
 
699, 700
 
629, 630 132 Ramalingam Pillai Vs. Vythialingam Pillai (1893) 20 I.A. 150 213 174 133 Ramalingam Pillai Vs. Vythialingam Pillai I.L.R. 16 Mad 490 213 174 134 Ramaswami Reddi Vs. Talaivasal Marudai Reddi and others AIR 1924 Mad 469 406 413 135 Rameshwar Prasad and others Vs. Shyam Beharilal Jagannath and others AIR 1963 SC 1901 415 421 136 Rani Purnima Devi And Another vs Kumar Khagendra Narayan Dev And another , AIR 1962, 567 716 642 137 Ratilal Panachand Gandhi Vs. The State of Bombay and others , AIR 1954 SC 388
 
291, 317
 
238, 252 138 Roman Catholic Mission v. The State of Madras and another 1966( 3) SCR 283 148 114 139 Run Bahadur Singh Vs. Lucho Koer ILR ( 1885) 11 Cal 301 498 469 140 S. R. Bommai and others Vs. Union of India and others AIR 1994 SC 1918 311 249 141 S.P. Mittal Vs. Union of India AIR 1983 SC 1
 
292, 310
 
239, 248 142 S.P.A. Annamalay Chetty vs. B.A. Thornhill AIR 1931 PC 263 406 413 143 Sadik Husain Khan vs Hashim Ali Khan and others , 1916 ILR (38) All 627 139 111 144 Sait Tarajee Khimchand and others vs Yelamarti Satyam alias Satteyya and others, AIR 1971 SC 1865 142 111 145 Saiyad Jaffar El Edroos Vs. Saiyad Mahomed El Edroos AIR 1937 Bom. 217 496 465 146 Sajjadanashin Sayed Md. B.E. Edr. (D) By LRS. Vs. Musa Dadabhai Ummer and others 2000 (3) SCC 350
 
496, 497, 499
 
465, 468, 469 147 Salvesan Vs. Administrator of Austrian Property ( 1927) A.C. 641 217 176 148 Samant N. Balkrishna and another vs. George Fernandez and others , 1969(3) SCC 238 154 116 149 Sammantha Pandara v. Sellappa Chetti I.L.R, 2 Mad. 175
 
69, 261, 263
 
65, 214, 218 150 Sangram Singh vs. Election Tribunal, Kotah and another , 1955(2) SCR 1 135 109 151 Sardar Sarup Singh and others Vs. State of Punjab and others, AIR 1959 SC 860 321 255 152 Sardar Syedna Tahel Saifuddin Saheb Vs. State of Bombay , AIR 1962 SC 853 318 253 153 Sat Narayan Singh Vs. Anant Prosad AIR 1919 Pat 549 412 417 154 Satya Charan Sarkar Vs. Mohanta Rudrananda Giri AIR 1953 Cal. 716 272 223 155 Satyadhyan Ghosal Vs. Deorajin Debi , AIR 1960 SC 941
 
526, 532, 542
 
489, 493, 502 156 Sayed Abdula Edrus Vs. Sayad Zain Sayad Hasan Edrus ILR (1889) 13 Bom. 555 496 465 157 Sayed Mohd. Vs. Alimiya (1972) 13 Guj.LR 285 496 467 158 Secretary of State vs. (Shrimati) Sarla Devi Chaudhrani, AIR 1924 Lahore 548 140 111 159 Shah Shivraj Gopalji v. Edappakath Ayissa Bi and Ors., AIR 1949 PC 302 524 488 160 Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd. vs. Surendra Oil and Dal Mills (Refineries) and others , 2010( 8) SCC 423
 
146, 163
 
114, 124 161 Shantha Nand Gir Chela Vs. Basudevanand AIR 1930 Alld. 225 436 433 162 Sharadchandra Ganesh Muley Vs. State of Maharashtra and others AIR 1996 SC 61 500 470 163 Sheodhar Rai and others Vs Suraj Prasad Singh and others, AIR 1954 SC 758 685 619 164 Sheoparsan Singh and others Vs. Ramnandan Prasad 43 IA 91(PC)= 20 C.W.N. 738 (P.C.) 448 446 165 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Vs. Mahant Harnam Singh and others , AIR 2003 SC 3349 512 476 166 Shri Krishna Singh Vs. Mathura Ahir and others 1981 (3) SCC 689=AIR 1980 SC 707
 
268, 269, 273, 275, 279
 
220, 221, 223, 224, 225 167 Shri Udhav Singh Vs. Madhav Rao Scindia ( 1977) 1 SCC 511
 
666, 671, 672
 
596, 601, 603 168 Shripati Quer Vs. Malti Devi , AIR 1967 (Patna) 320) 485 462 169 Sitaram Vs. Amir Begum (1886) ILR 8 Alld. 324 478 459 170 Sitaram vs. Ram Charan and Ors. AIR 1995 MP 134 142 112 171 Smt. Raj Lakshmi Dasi and others Vs. Banamali Sen and others AIR 1953 SC 33
 
456, 505, 525
 
448, 472, 488 172 Soorjomonee Dayee Vs. Suddanund Mahapatter (1873) 12 BLR 304, 315 (P.C.) 440 439 173 Sri Adi Visheshwara of Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Varanasi and others Vs. State of U.P. and others , 1997(4) SCC 606 304 245 174 Sri Gopal Vs. Pirthi Singh (1902) ILR 24 Alld. 429 ( PC) 501 471 175 Sri Mahalinga Thambiran Swamigal Vs. His Holiness Sri La Sri Kasivasi Arulnandi Thambiran Swamiga ( 1974) 1 SCC 150
 
213, 214, 219, 221
 
171, 174, 177, 178 176 Sri Ramjee and others Vs. Bishwanath Pd. Sah and others AIR 1978 Patna 129 507 473 177 Sri Vidya Varuthi Thirth Swamigal Vs. Baluswami Ayyar and Ors. AIR 1922 P.C. 123
 
266, 278
 
220, 225 178 Srikanti Vs. Indupuram ( 1866) 3 M.H.C.R. 226 509 474 179 State of Karnataka and another Vs. All India Manufacturers Organization and others , 2006( 4) SCC 683 461 450 180 State of Punjab Vs. Nathu Ram AIR 1962 SC 89 413 418 181 State of U.P. Vs. Nawab Hussain AIR 1977 SC 1680
 
501, 540
 
471, 500 182 Sulochana Amma Vs. Narayanan Nair , AIR 1994 SC 152
 
459, 498
 
449, 469 183 Sundar Pande and others Vs. Musammat Kumari 1919 (50) Indian Cases 935 (Alld.) 411 415 184 Swami Parmatmanand Saraswati and another Vs. Ramji Tripathi , 1974 ( 2) SCC 695
 
62, 391
 
58, 373 185 Syed Mohd. Salie Labbai Vs. Mohd. Hanifa AIR 1976 SC 1569 466 453 186 T.B. Ramachandra Rao and another Vs. A.N.S. Ramchandra Rao and others , AIR 1922 PC 80 450 447 187 T.K. Gopal alias Gopi Vs. State of Karnataka , 2000 ( 6) SCC 168
 
296, 242 188 Talluri Venkata Seshayya and others Vs. Thadikonda Kotiswara Rao and others , AIR 1937 P.C. page 1 475 455 189 Tarak Chandra Das and another Vs. Anukul Chandra Mukherjee A.I.R. 1946 Cal 118 220 178 190 Thamba Vs. Arundel I.L.R. 6 Mad. 287 271 222 191 Trojan and Company Ltd. Vs Rm.N.N. Nagappa Chettiar , AIR 1953 SC 235 684 618 192 U.P. State road Transport Corporation Vs. State of U.P. and another , 2005( 1) SCC 444 542 502 193 Union Territory of Chandigarh Vs. Sardara Singh and others , AIR 1981 (Punjab and Haryana) 354 484 461 194 Vanagiri Sri Selliamman Ayyanar Uthirasomasundar-eswarar Temple Vs. Rajanga Asari Air 1965 Mad. 355 498 469 195 Venkata Chandrayya Vs. Venkata Rama Reddy, (1899) 22 Madras 256 484 461 196 Venkataramana Devaru Vs. State of Mysore, AIR 1958 SC 255 321 255 197 Vidyapurna Tirtha Swami Vs. Vidyanidhi Tirtha Swami 1904 ILR Vol. XXVII Madras 435 263 218 198 Virender Nath Gautam vs. Satpal Singh ( 2007)3 SCC 617 678 612 199 Vithal Yeshwant Jathar Vs. Shikandarkhan Makhtumkhan Sardesai AIR 1963 SC 385 515 480 200 Waqf Khudawand Taala Banam Masjid Mauza Chaul Shahabudinpur vs. Seth Mohan Lal 1956 ALJ 225 511 475 201 Waris Khan and Others Vs. Ahmadullakhan and others AIR 1952 Nag 238 406 413 Index-Subjectwise in First Appeal No. 309 of 2015
 

 
S.No.
 
Particulars 
 
Date
 
Paras
 
Pages 1 Parties and Counsels' name 1 2 Plaint of Suit 513 of 1989
 
10.11.1989
 
3-17
 
2-11 3 Amendment of plaint after appellant's installation
 
22.12.2006 18 11 4 Appellant's defence in written statement
 
12.05.1992
 
19-21
 
12-18 5 Replication
 
19.04.1995
 
22-23
 
18-22 6 Amendment application 
 
01.09.2005 24 22-24 7 Additional written statement
 
03.01.2007 25 24-26 8 Issues
 

 
26-27
 
26-31 9 Evidence: 31-33
 

 
(II)	To prove authenticity and mandatory character of Rules for installation, qualification, eligibility and procedure for installation to the office of Shankaracharya with reference to Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan. 29 33 III. Experts in religious matters 29 34 IV. Handwriting expert 34 V. Photographer 34 Other witnesses on specific aspects 30 34-35 12 I. Defendants witnesses to prove appellant as Shankaracharya 31 35-38
 

 
II. Experts in religious matters 31 37 III. About qualification of plaintiff 31 37 IV. Handwriting expert 31 38 V. Photographer 31 38 13 Findings of Trial Court
 

 
32-34 38 14 Amendment in Memo of Appeal 35 38 15 Misc. Proceeding during trial of Suit
 

 
36-41
 
39-40 16 Previous litigation
 

 
42-96
 
41-92 17 Misc. case no. 44 of 1953
 

 
45-50
 
42-47 18 Suit 3 of 1954
 

 
51-62
 
47-57 19 Suit 47 of 1954 63 57-58 20 Suit 3 of 1963 (abated) - 58 21 Suit 36 of 1965
 

 
64-81
 
58-73 22 Civil Suit 1-A of 1974
 

 
82-96
 
73-92 23 Marking of documents as exhibits
 

 
97-164
 
93-125 24 Points for Determination and Adjudication
 
First Point: Shankaracharya, his antiquity, his philosophy, work carried out by him for propagating Sanatan Dharma, his influence over followers of Sanatan Dharma and position and status of Shankaracharya and his Peethas vis a vis the persons occupying those Peethas in the eyes of Hindu followers of Adi Shankaracharya's philosophy. 
 
Second point: Whether for installation of any person to head the Peethas established by Adi Guru Shankaracharya, are there any set of discipline, Rules and Regulations? 
 
Third Point: Whether Mathamnaya and Mahanushasan are written work containing and prescribing Regulations laying down mode, manner, eligibility and other instructions for selection and installation of an appropriate person to Head the said Peethas. 
 

 
169-172
 
129-130 25 About Adi Shankaracharya 173 130 26 About Four Peethas: The Concept of Mutt: 224 179 27