Furniture and electronics rental startup Rentomojo was hit by a cyberattack that has led to a breach of customers’ personal data, the company said in an email sent to customers on April 20.

“It appears that the attackers were able to get unauthorised access to our customer data, including in some cases personally identifiable information by exploiting the cloud misconfiguration through extremely sophisticated attacks, thus breaching one of our databases. We assure you that this has no impact on any financial information like Credit cards, Debit cards or UPI as we never store them in our database.” — Geetansh Bamania, CEO and Co-founder, Rentomojo

Some Rentomojo users have taken to Twitter to allege that the hackers, going by the name Shiny Hunters, have emailed them threatening to make the breached data public. Contrary to Rentomojo’s statement, the hackers also claim to have access to certain financial data of users.

This is how this email ends. After paragraphs of my personal contact details and email IDs of many of my friends! @rentomojo #databreach pic.twitter.com/rVFl50XtDk

— Ankita (@OddGoanOut) April 19, 2023

Disturbing news! @rentomojo data breach has led to the exposure of my confidential information. Hackers are now blackmailing to release my personal data. This is a serious breach of privacy and security. #RentomojoDataBreach #PrivacyViolation

— Raj Kumar (@rajkstats) April 19, 2023

@Cyberdost @rentomojo I have received any email from ShinyHunters that there is data breach on rentomojo and my data has been breached and now available with hackers. Please consider this complaint and any type of loss will be borne by Rentomojo brand.

— Ronak Pandya (@ronakhappiness) April 19, 2023

We have emailed Rentomojo asking for more details on how many users are affected by the breach and what types of personal data have been compromised.

Why does this matter: Data breaches give the attackers valuable information that they can either sell in the black market or use themselves to carry out sophisticated scams against users. When sold in the black market, the breached data can further be combined with other leaked data to create comprehensive user profiles.

What measures has Rentomojo taken following the breach: “Upon becoming aware of the breach, we immediately initiated an investigation and engaged leading cybersecurity and legal experts to assist us,” the startup noted. The company has also informed the concerned authorities and taken measures to protect its systems including securing and encrypting its database, implementing multi-factor authentication, implementing advanced security practices, rotating access tokens and updating passwords, perform security audits and vulnerability assessments, among others, Rentomojo explained in its email it sent to customers.

If you are a Rentomojo customer and want more details about the data breach , you can reach out to [email protected] , the company informed.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event