SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How to report against fake or suspicious job offers in India?
DATE: 2022-05-24
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/uwsmx0/how_to_report_against_fake_or_suspicious_job/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi I recently gave an interview for a gaming company called BooBoo Games and got selected. But in the offer letter I have condition that I have a two year bond and have to give an undated cheque as such. Initially I didnt notice that term "undated cheque" and was subsconsciously thinking it is cancelled cheque as I had done for my previous company.

But what got me off the grid was yesterday. That guy messages me and askes for my scan copy of passport, aadhar and a copy of undated cheque. This time I saw the contact email and it was [hr.booboogames@gmail.com](mailto:hr.booboogames@gmail.com) . I was compeletely sure that this is a scam as email address should have their company as domain name and gmail as their domain name.

I went to the RT Nagar Police Station today. But the inspector didn't even care to take a complain. He said since I have not lost anything , there is nothing to lodge a complain against. I said that this guy sits in Hyderabad and he said 15-20 members are joining the team and he might be cheating a hell lot of people , at least note down the god damm number and try to invistigate. He said I can't do anything rather to register a complain in elate or something.He said merely based on a suspect he can't investigate but I told him atleast make an interrogation and he didn't agree to that either

I searched for that "elate" but I couldn't find anything like that. So here is my question on how to register against such fake job offers online?

I must say if people lose money in this scam , it is something pathetic. It is like a time bomb which is about to be exploded there , but our police says let the time bomb explode and people die, then they will take action . Really disappointed with these guys.

Also that guy has my scanned copy of PAN, Aadhar , Passport. Really scared as to whether he can misuse it.

Red flags in this job offer:

1)Hr domain name is gmail and not the company name

2)HR told minimum 20% hike for all employees at the end of the year( So even if I dont perform I am really getting 20% hike)

3)The interview was very brief it hardly took 7 minutes. No technical questions were asked and only my previous experience.

4)Most of all an Undated cheque which is as a security in case I break the bond. But bonded labour is a crime right?