“Facebook has effectively ended all this work,” said one researcher referring to her team’s work of identifying political disinformation and vaccine misinformation on the platform.

In the month of August alone, it was revealed that Facebook banned the accounts of a group of NYU researchers, threatened legal action against another group of AlgorithmWatch researchers, and imposed rigid data access restrictions on Princeton University researchers.

These researchers play an important role in holding social platforms accountable by studying fake news and disinformation patterns, algorithmic bias, ad targetting practices, the spread of hate speech, etc. But Facebook has restricted such research in the name of protecting privacy, which many privacy advocates have called a bogus claim. Here’s a round-up of what went down.

What happened? On August 3, Facebook banned the personal accounts of researchers who are part of NYU Ad Observatory as well as suspended the team’s access to Facebook’s Ad Library and Crowdtangle, two platforms that provide data on how often particular posts are viewed, liked, and shared.

What is NYU Ad Observatory? It is a project studying ad transparency and the spread of misinformation on social media platforms. To carry out their work, the researchers developed a browser plug-in called Ad Observer, which collects data from users on what political ads are shown to them and why were they targeted. The plug-in’s website states that it does not collect any personally identifying information and has published the code for anyone to audit.

Why does this research project matter?

“Online ads are usually seen only by the audience the advertiser wants to target, and then they disappear. This makes it difficult for the public to monitor them and hold advertisers accountable. While platforms have developed some transparency libraries for political ads, these libraries are missing many ads featuring political content and often don’t include vital information such as ad targeting. This isn’t a partisan issue. We think it’s important to democracy to be able to check who is trying to influence the public and how.” – NYU Ad Observatory

Why did Facebook ban the accounts? In a blog post explaining the reasons for its decision to ban the researchers, Facebook said:

Reactions to Facebook’s decision:

What happened? On August 13, researchers at Berlin-based AlgorithmWatch said in a blog post that they had to terminate their research project monitoring the Instagram algorithm after legal threats from Facebook. “Ultimately, an organization the size of AlgorithmWatch cannot risk going to court against a company valued at one trillion dollars,” the organization stated.

What work was AlgorithmWatch doing? In March, AlgorithmWatch launched a project to monitor Instagram’s newsfeed algorithm by allowing users to install a browser add-on that scraped their Instagram feeds. The organisation studied this data to find how Instagram prioritises pictures and videos in a user’s timeline.

Why does what they do matter? The research allowed AlgorithmWatch “to show that Instagram likely encouraged content creators to post pictures that fit specific representations of their body and that politicians were likely to reach a larger audience if they abstained from using text in their publications (Facebook denied both claims). Although we could not conduct a precise audit of Instagram’s algorithm, this research is among the most advanced studies ever conducted on the platform,” the organization stated.

What did Facebook say?

Reactions to the incident:

What happened? Princeton University researchers who applied to Facebook for access to its political ad data through the FORT program pulled the plug on the would-be project because of the social media platform’s “rigid contractual requirements,” Digiday reported.

Why did the researchers abandon their plans for the project? “For Princeton researchers including Orestis Papakyriakopoulos, a Ph.D. at the University’s Center for Information Technology Policy, the key sticking point was a contract Facebook requires research institutions to sign before accessing its data. In particular, he and others on his digital tech policy research team were concerned that agreeing to the contract would give Facebook the right to remove information from their research findings had they actually went through with the project,” the Digiday report stated. “It doesn’t make sense for us to do research for six months and then not be able to publish it,” Papakyriakopoulos told Digiday.

What did Facebook’s “rigid contract” stipulate? The contract that researchers had to sign “states that research findings resulting from analysis ‘may not disclose any Confidential Information or any Personal Data’ and gives Facebook the opportunity to review publication drafts ‘to identify any Confidential Information or any Personal Data that may be included or revealed in those materials and which need to be removed prior to publication or disclosure.’ According to the contract, Confidential Information includes information relating to Facebook’s products and technology, its data processing systems, policies and platforms, in addition to personal information pertaining to its users or business partners,” Digiday reported.

What has Facebook said? A Facebook spokesperson told Digiday: “The questions these researchers ask and conclusions they draw are not restricted by Facebook. […] As of now, we have not rejected any research papers as a part of our standard review process to ensure no personal data or confidential information is included.”

Also Read

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event