SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ICICI Bank fucking sucks and I hope it dies in a fire.
DATE: 2020-06-06
SCORE: 157
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gxm9fr/icici_bank_fucking_sucks_and_i_hope_it_dies_in_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

I have a credit card with ICICI and I bought flight tickets with it in January.

Because of COVID-19, of course the flights got cancelled and the airline refunded my money to my credit card.

So until mid-May I was using my card and its excess balance to pay for most of my lockdown purchases.

However, the dumb motherfuckers at the bank blocked my card mid-May and since then I have been unable to make any transactions on it. I have over 30k in excess funds stuck in the card.

Normally, it should just be as simple as calling the bank and asking them to unblock it. The even bank sent me a message saying that the transaction was blocked because of security measures and to contact their customer care for further assistance.

However, the IVR has been designed in a manner which makes it impossible to reach a human. Why is that so?

1. Call the helpline number in the card. The recorded audio informs you that they are understaffed because of COVID-19, so they are only providing limited services. Fine.
2. They ask you to press zero to report card loss or fraud.
3. For other services, they ask you to enter your CC number and proceed from there. Because my card is not lost and no fraud has occurred, I do this.
4. They ask you to press 9 to connect to a human. I do exactly that.
5. Then they hit you with a gem: "Dear customer, we are unable to assist you. We apologize for the inconvenience." WTF?
6. So I try again, and instead do step 2 instead of step 3, choosing fraud.
7. They ask for my card number again. I enter it.
8. Go to step 5...

All in all, they've basically held my money to ransom.

After some searching, I found their customer care email address. I sent them a message asking for my card to be unblocked around 20 May, threatening to complain to the RBI Ombudsman. They did not reply.

A couple of days ago, I gave them a deadline of the end of this week to reply. If they don't reply by tomorrow, I'm filing a complaint with RBI.