And Another Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Chetan Kumar Date: 2022.05.10 16:12:14 IST Reason: 1 JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

This judgment has been divided into sections to facilitate analysis. They are: 4 Between October 2010 and 3 January 2011, the second respondent allegedly

paid the appellant a sum of Rs 93 lakhs in twelve instalments. A cheque for the

remaining sum of Rs 67 lakhs was handed over to the appellant by the second

respondent on 20 June 2011. The appellant has stated that she did not encash this

cheque upon realising that a fraud had been committed upon her. On the same

date, a sale deed was purported to have been executed by the appellant in favour of

the second respondent based upon the agreement to sell and upon the payment of

the remaining sale consideration. The execution and registration of this sale deed

forms the bedrock of the dispute in the present appeal. 5 On 5 December 2011, the second respondent filed an application seeking

permission to execute the sale deed. Thereafter, on 15 December 2011, they

presented the sale deed for registration before the Sub-Registrar-I, Bareilly. In 4 PART A

response to a notice from the Sub-Registrar, the appellant appeared before the Sub-

Registrar on 17 February 2012 and submitted an objection in writing, with a request

not to execute the incomplete and forged sale deed in favour of the second

respondent. The appellant stated that she was 78 years of age, ―a chronic patient of

depression, heart ailment and hypertension‖ under medical treatment and that her

son was an alcoholic who was incapable of taking any decision on his own. The

appellant stated that the second respondent had been harassing her into forcibly

signing the sale deed in respect of her property. The appellant further stated that the

second respondent furnished her with misleading and false information in order to

ger her to sign the papers, all the while even forcing her to hide the transaction from

the members of her own family. Specifically in relation to the two transactions in

regards the front and rear portion of the land, the appellant alleged as follows: PART A (ii) The sale deed itself was incomplete, but the second respondent forcibly made

 her sign it on the pretext of a rush to file the sale deed within time for

 registration; and (iii) The second respondent himself was aware that there was no partition

 between the co-sharers of the land, yet went ahead with the sale deed.

Hence, based on her above contentions, the appellant requested the Sub-Registrar

to take action for the forgery which had been committed by the second respondent

and prevent the second respondent from getting the incomplete sale deed registered

for an area admeasuring 1839.48 square meters. 6 By an order dated 17 February 2012, the Sub-Registrar declined to register

the sale deed after recording the following statement of the appellant: 7 The Sub-Registrar having refused to order the registration of the sale deed,

the second respondent instituted an appeal2 under Section 72 of the Registration Act

19083 on 2 March 2012. The appellant objected to the maintainability of the appeal

under Section 72 , besides supporting the order of the Sub-Registrar on the ground

that the sale deed in dispute had not been executed by her. 8 By an order dated 31 March 2012, the District Registrar, while entertaining the

appeal, proceeded to follow the procedure prescribed by Section 74 of the

Registration Act to determine whether the sale deed had been executed by the

appellant. The District Registrar subsequently held that the appellant had admitted

her signature on the document and that the second respondent was entitled to get

the sale deed registered. In arriving at the conclusion, the District Registrar relied on

the statements made on solemn affirmation by the scribe of the sale deed and by

the witnesses to the sale deed, to the effect that the document had been executed

by the appellant in their presence without any pressure. The District Registrar also

noted that prior to the sale deed, an agreement to sell had been registered on 22

October 2010 in terms of which the appellant received an amount of Rs 93 lakhs by

cash and cheque, as token money towards the sale consideration of Rs 1.6 crores.

The receipt of the consideration by cheque in pursuance of the agreement to sell

was stated to not be in dispute. Further, the District Registrar noted that during the

period of about one year and two months, between the registration of the agreement 2 Appeal No 01 of 2012 3 ― Registration Act ‖ 8 PART A

to sell and the presentation of the sale deed on 15 December 2011, the appellant

had not lodged any complaint alleging fraud. The District Registrar also observed

that the signatures and thumb impressions/fingerprints of the appellant on the

agreement to sell and sale deed had been examined by a handwriting expert, and

were found to be identical. Based on these findings, the District Registrar set aside

the Sub-Registrar‘s decision and ordered the registration of the sale deed presented

on 15 December 2011. Consequently, the sale deed was registered on 16 April

2012. 9 Crucially, the appellant has adverted to certain developments which took

place after the order of the District Registrar. According to the appellant, the

Assistant Inspector General, Registration, Bareilly ordered a spot inspection by the

Sub-Registrar of the land covered by the sale deed. In his report dated 30 April

2012, the Sub-Registrar concluded that the actual area covered by the deed was

1341.73 square meters, out of which 740.73 square meters was the area of the

appellant‘s house. Further, the Sub-Registrar noted that while the northern and

western boundaries were present as according to the sale deed, the southern and

eastern boundaries at the spot did not match with the boundaries mentioned in the

sale deed. Later, pursuant to the recommendation of the Sub-Registrar, a further

spot verification was also carried out by the Naib Tahsildar. In a report dated 26 May

2012, the Naib Tahsildar stated that the boundaries mentioned in the sale deed

were completely incorrect. Further, it was stated that the actual area on the spot was

849.12 square meters, as opposed to the area of 1839.48 square meters shown in 9 PART A

the sale deed. The report noted that if the area of 1839.48 square meters was taken

as the area of the sale deed, it would partly cover the residential house of the

appellant, garden area situated in front of the house and three properties which had

been previously sold by the deceased husband of the appellant. Therefore, the Naib

Tahsildar concluded that the registered sale deed was completely incorrect.

10 At this stage, it would also be material to note that a first information report4

was filed by the appellant on 4 May 2012 at PS Kotwali, Sub-District Sadar, Bareilly

against the proprietors of the second respondent for offences punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code 1860. Subsequently,

a final report was filed in the FIR by the Investigating Officer. A protest petition filed

by the appellant against the final report has since been dismissed by the Magistrate

by an order dated 20 September 20135, against which the appellant‘s revision

remains pending. 11 Along with these developments, the appellant challenged the order dated 31

March 2012 of the District Registrar before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad

in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. In adjudicating the appellant‘s

writ petition by the impugned judgment dated 31 May 2018, a Single Judge of the

High Court framed the following questions for consideration: judicial power to conduct an enquiry regarding the validity of the title or

 legality of the transaction in a sale deed, but only has to ascertain whether the

 provisions of the Registration Act have been complied with. Questions

 regarding the validity of the title or legality of the transaction can only be

 decided by a competent civil court; and (ii) The Sub-Registrar, in the present case, had denied the registration of the sale

 deed under Section 35(3)(a) of the Registration Act since the appellant had,

 while admitting that she had placed her thumb impressions/fingerprints and

 signatures on the sale deed, objected to the registration on the ground that

 her signatures had been taken in a fraudulent manner by representing to her

 that she was selling only 839 square meters of land whereas the area shown 6 (2016) 10 SCC 767 (―Satya Pal Anand‖) 11 PART A

 in the sale deed was 1839 square meters. However, it was held that the Sub-

 Registrar under Section 35 did not have the power to conduct an inquiry

 regarding the execution of the sale deed, and could have only recorded the

 denial of execution by the appellant. On the other hand, it was noted that a

 wider power is entrusted to the Registrar under Section 74(a) of the

 Registration Act to determine whether the document has been executed. On

 these premises, the Single Judge held: 12 The Single Judge also observed that the writ petition had been instituted after

the registration of the FIR by the appellant, prior to which the order of the District

Registrar dated 31 March 2012 had already been complied with by the registration

of the sale deed on 16 April 2012. The Single Judge noted that initially, the appellant

had pleaded before the High Court that her signatures and thumb

impressions/fingerprints had not been placed on the sale deed, but had been forged

by the second respondent. However, the Single Judge noted that this was an 12 PART B

improvement from the appellant‘s story as detailed in the FIR dated 4 May 2012,

where it was stated that the appellant willingly put her signatures and thumb

impressions/fingerprints on the sale deed and only later did her granddaughter

realise the incorrect figure of the area in the sale deed. In any case, the High Court

observed that whether the signatures and thumb impressions/fingerprints of the

appellant had been forged by the second respondent raised a disputed question of

fact which could only be resolved on the basis of evidence before a competent civil

court. Holding that the High Court in the exercise of its writ jurisdiction could not

render a finding either way, the writ petition was dismissed by the Single Judge

while leaving it open to the appellant to move the civil court for a declaration that the

sale deed had been obtained by fraud and was a nullity. behalf of the appellant and Mr V K Shukla, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

behalf of the second respondent. 14 Mr Pradeep Kant, learned Senior Counsel submitted that: registration of a document, of which execution is denied by any person by

 whom it purports to have been executed, may apply to the Registrar to

 establish his right to have the document registered. In the present case, the

 second respondent having filed an appeal under Section 72 , the provisions of Sections 73 and 74 could not have been attracted; (iii) The appellant does not deny having signed the sale deed and having placed

 her thumb impressions/fingerprints on the documents. However, the

 execution of a document cannot be conflated with its mere signing. The

 appellant admitted her signatures but objected to registration on the ground of

 fraud and undue influence. Hence, the question of proving her signature on

 the sale deed was never an issue. Pertinently, neither the Registrar nor the

 High Court has recorded a finding that the appellant understood the contents

 of the sale deed or she was made to understand the obligations which were

 being assumed by her with respect to the subject matter of the sale, including

 the boundaries and area of the land, at the time when she placed her

 signatures and thumb impressions/fingerprints on the documents. Therefore, 14 PART B

 the mere fact that the witnesses proved the signatures of the appellant on the

 sale deed cannot lead to the conclusion that the appellant had duly ‗executed‘

 the sale deed or that there could not have been any denial of execution; (iv) The specific objection of the appellant is that the sale deed is fraudulent and

 contrary to the agreed terms since: (b) The appellant does not deny her signatures or thumb

 impressions/fingerprints on the sale deed. Hence, the Registrar‘s reliance

 on the statements of the two witnesses and handwriting experts to prove

 the appellant‘s signature on the sale deed, while concluding that it was

 thus duly ‗executed‘ by appellant, is misplaced; (c) There has been no finding in regards to the due execution of the sale deed

 by the appellant, which is the matter in dispute; and (d) There could have been no ‗execution‘ by the appellant when there is a

 serious dispute between the parties over the area reflected in the sale

 deed and what had been agreed earlier. 15 PART B

15 On the other hand, Mr V K Shukla, learned Senior Counsel appearing on

behalf of the second respondent submitted that: If an instrument is signed by both the parties, it is presumptive of the fact that

 both of them have executed it, though the presumption is rebuttable. In the

 present case, the sale deed having been signed by the parties and attested

 by the two witnesses, it has to be regarded as having been validly ‗executed‘; (ii) Under the Registration Act , the Registrar is vested with a duality of powers: Since the Registrar has an independent power under Section 73 and Section

 74 , the mere mentioning of a wrong provision ( Section 72 ) by the second

 respondent and the Registrar will not invalidate the proceedings; (iii) A document, once it is registered, can be cancelled or set aside only by a

 civil court of competent jurisdiction. Upon the registration of the sale deed on

 16 April 2012, the registration authorities are rendered infructuous and would

 have no power to cancel registration even on the ground of fraud or other

 irregularities; (iv) The following conduct of the appellant has disentitled her to relief: 16 16 The rival submissions would now fall for analysis. (i) Whether the recourse by the second respondent to Section 72 of the

 Registration Act, against the order of the Sub-Registrar refusing registration

 on the basis of the appellant‘s denial of execution, would deprive them of any

 remedy whatsoever; and (ii) Whether the appellant‘s admission of her signatures and thumb

 impressions/fingerprints on the sale deed also amounts to an admission of its

 ―execution‖. However, before proceeding with a discussion of these issues, it is important to

understand the statutory framework of the Registration Act . compulsorily registrable. Among them, in clause (b), are non-testamentary

instruments which purport or operate to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish a

right, title or interest to or in immoveable property of a value higher than Rs 100. Section 23 , which deals with the time for presenting documents, stipulates that

subject to Sections 24 , 25 and 26 , no documents other than a will shall be accepted 18 PART C

for registration unless presented to the proper officer within four months from the

date of its execution. 19 Section 32 then entails that every document, to be registered, shall be

presented at the registration office by: (a) person executing or claiming under the

document; or (b) a representative or assign of such a person; or (c) the agent of

such a person, or their representative or assign, duly authorized by a power of

attorney executed and authenticated in the manner provided.

20 Section 348 stipulates that, subject to the provisions referred to in it, no

document shall be registered unless the person executing such a document or their

representative, assign or agent authorized, appear before the registering officer

within the time allowed for presentation. The provision also outlines the duties of 8 ―34. Enquiry before registration by registering officer.—(1) Subject to the provisions contained in this Part and
in Sections 41 , 43 , 45 , 69 , 75 , 77 , 88 and 89 , no document shall be registered under this Act, unless the persons
executing such document, or their representatives, assigns or agents authorized as aforesaid, appear before the
registering officer within the time allowed for presentation under Sections 23 , 24 , 25 and 26 : 21 Section 35 entails that the registering officer shall register the document if: On the other hand, sub-Section (3)(a) of Section 35 stipulates, inter alia, that if a

person by whom the document purports to be executed denies its execution, the

registering officer will refuse to register the document. Section 35 is extracted below: 22 The above provisions indicate that the registration of a document by the Sub-

Registrar must be preceded by: 23 Section 58 provides for the particulars to be endorsed on the documents

admitted to registration. Section 58(2) provides that ―[i]f any person admitting the 21 PART C

execution of a document refuses to endorse the same, the registering officer shall

nevertheless register it, but shall at the same time endorse a note of such refusal‖. Section 59 stipulates that the endorsements are to be dated and signed by the

registering officer. Section 60 provides that once the requirements of Sections 34 , 35 , 58 and 59 have been complied with, the registering officer shall endorse the

document with a certificate of registration. 24 Section 719 requires the Sub-Registrar who refuses to register a document,

except on the ground that the property to which it relates is not situated within his

sub-district, to make an order of refusal and record his reasons, and endorse the

refusal of registration on the document. Further, the Sub-Registrar is required to

furnish a copy of the reasons recorded, to any person executing or claiming under

the document. 25 Section 72 provides for an appeal to the Registrar from an order of the Sub-

Registrar refusing registration on a ground other than the denial of execution. Section 72 is in the following terms: Registrar is subordinate, if presented to such Registrar within
 thirty days from the date of the order; and the Registrar may
 reverse or alter such order. (2) If the order of the Registrar directs the document to be
 registered and the document is duly presented for registration
 within thirty days after the making of such order, the Sub-
 Registrar shall obey the same, and thereupon shall, so far as
 may be practicable, follow the procedure prescribed in Sections 58 , 59 and 60 ; and such registration shall take effect
 as if the document had been registered when it was first duly
 presented for registration.‖

In terms of sub-Section (1) of Section 72 , an appeal lies to the Registrar against an

order of the Sub-Registrar refusing to admit a document to registration, except

where the refusal is made on the ground of a denial of execution.

26 Section 73 provides for an application to the Registrar where the Sub-

Registrar has refused to register a document on the ground of a denial of execution. Section 73 provides thus: 27 On such an application being preferred, the Registrar has to follow the

procedure which is spelt out in Section 74 . Section 74 stipulates as follows: 28 Section 7510 provides that if the Registrar finds that the document has been

executed and the requirements under the law have been complied with, the

Registrar shall order the document be registered. Thereafter, if the document is duly

presented for registration within thirty days of the order of the Registrar, the

registering officer has to obey the order and, as far as may be practicable, must

follow the procedure in Sections 58 , 59 and 60 . The registration then takes effect as

if the document has been registered when it was first presented for registration.

Pertinently, under sub-Section (4) of Section 75 , the Registrar may, for the purpose

of an enquiry under Section 74 , summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses,

and compel them to give evidence, as if the Registrar were a civil court under the

Code of Civil Procedure 190811. 10 ―75. Order by Registrar to register and procedure thereon.—(1) If the Registrar finds that the document has
been executed and that the said requirements have been complied with, he shall order the document to be
registered. (2) If the document is duly presented for registration within thirty days after the making of such order, the registering
officer shall obey the same and thereupon shall, so far as may be practicable, follow the procedure prescribed in Sections 58 , 59 and 60 . (3) Such registration shall take effect as if the document had been registered when it was first duly presented for
registration. (4) The Registrar may, for the purpose of any enquiry under Section 74 , summon and enforce the attendance of
witnesses, and compel them to give evidence, as if he were a Civil Court, and he may also direct by whom the whole
or any part of the costs of any such enquiry shall be paid, and such costs shall be recoverable as if they had been
awarded in a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908).‖ 11 ― CPC ‖ 25 PART C

29 Section 7612 provides for that the order of refusal by the Registrar under Sections 72 or 75 has to be reasoned, and the Registrar is required to furnish a copy

of the reasons recorded to any person executing or claiming under the document. It

further provides that no appeal shall lie against such an order of refusal.

30 In the event of a refusal by the Registrar, a suit can be filed by a party in

terms of the provisions of Section 7713 before a civil court, praying for a decree

directing the document to be registered. On the other hand, an order of the Registrar

directing the registration of a document is amenable to a challenge under Article 226 of the Constitution. While seeking a writ of certiorari, the person moving the petition

before the High Court would be entitled to establish whether the registration has

been ordered in breach of the statutory provisions and is contrary to law. The mere

existence of the remedy available before a civil court, under Section 9 of the CPC to

avoid the document or to seek a declaration in regard to its invalidity, will not divest

a person, who complains that the order passed by Registrar for the registration of 12 ―76. Order of refusal by Registrar.—(1) Every Registrar refusing— (a) to register a document except on the ground that the property to which it relates is not situate within his district or
that the document ought to be registered in the office of a Sub-Registrar, or (b) to direct the registration of a document under Section 72 or Section 75 ,

shall make an order of refusal and record the reasons for such order in his Book No. 2, and, on application made by
any person executing or claiming under the document, shall, without unnecessary delay, give him a copy of the
reasons so recorded. (2) No appeal lies from any order by a Registrar under this Section or Section 72 .‖ 13 ―77. Suit in case of order of refusal by Registrar.—(1) Where the Registrar refuses to order the document to be
registered, under Section 72 or Section 76 , any person claiming under such document, or his representative, assign
or agent, may, within thirty days after the making of the order of refusal, institute in the Civil Court, within the local
limits of whose original jurisdiction is situate the office in which the document is sought to be registered, a suit for a
decree directing the document to be registered in such office if it be duly presented for registration within thirty days
after the passing of such decree. (2) The provisions contained in sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 75 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to all documents
presented for registration in accordance with any such decree, and, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
the document shall be receivable in evidence in such suit.‖ 26 PART C

the document was contrary to statutory provisions, of the remedy which is available

in the exercise of a court‘s writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.

Undoubtedly, whether a writ should be entertained lies at the discretion of the court

and in a given case, the High Court may decline to do so on the ground that

disputed questions of fact arise. However, it needs to be emphasized that in the

exercise of the writ jurisdiction, it would be open to the High Court to determine as to

whether the statutory provisions which guide the power of the Sub-Registrar or, as

the case may be, the Registrar to order the registration of the document have been

duly fulfilled. Even where a decree is passed by the civil court for the cancellation of

any instrument, sub-Section (2) of Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act 1963

provides that: 31 The Sub-Registrar before whom the sale deed was submitted for registration

declined to order the registration of the sale deed by an order dated 17 February

2012. The order of the Sub-Registrar was prefaced by the statement of the

appellant, which stated that her signatures on the sale deed had been taken forcibly. 27 PART C

Before the Sub-Registrar, the appellant had filed an objection when the sale deed

was presented for registration. The appellant, in the course of her objections before

the Sub-Registrar specifically adverted to following grievances, namely that: (i) the

second respondent had furnished false and misleading information to her; (ii) the

market value of the land admeasuring 1839.48 square metres was not less than Rs

7 crores and the sale consideration of Rs 1.6 crore was meagre; (iii) the time

stipulated in the sale deed had expired; (iv) the signatures of the appellant had been

obtained on an incomplete sale deed; (v) the signatures of the appellant were taken

without furnishing to her a chance to read or peruse the papers, and when she was

surrounded by five persons; (vi) the land area having been manipulated under the

sale deed, her residential house would also been taken away by fraud; (vii) the

boundaries mentioned in the sale deed were incorrect and did not clearly reflect the

land which was agreed to be sold; (viii) the sale deed was incomplete and all the co-

sharers had never entered into any partition; (ix) the sale deed would attract a

capital gains tax which would be in excess of the sale consideration; and (x) an

active forgery had been committed by the second respondent.

32 As is evident from the objections filed before the Sub-Registrar by the

appellant, it is clear that she did not deny having signed the sale deed. The essence

of her grievance was that her signatures were taken forcibly; the sale deed did not

reflect the intent of the parties in terms of the area which was intended to be sold;

the sale consideration was undervalued; the consequence of the sale deed was that

even the residential house of the appellant would be sold, contrary to her 28 PART C

understanding; and the sale deed had been procured by fraud. The order of the

Sub-Registrar makes it abundantly clear that the appellant was not ready to register

the sale deed, which was claimed to have been executed in a fraudulent manner

and whose execution was thus being denied. Registration was, therefore, refused by

the Sub-Registrar in terms of Section 35(3)(a) of the Registration Act.

33 If a person by whom the document is purported to be executed denies its

execution and registration is refused on those grounds, an appeal against the order

of the Sub-Registrar denying execution would not be maintainable under Section 72 of the Registration Act. Section 72 clearly stipulates that an appeal will lie against an

order of Sub-Registrar refusing to admit a document to registration ―except where

the refusal is made on the ground of denial of execution‖. 34 In the present case, the Sub-Registrar having specifically denied registration

in terms of Section 35(3)(a) , the order was not amenable to an appeal under Section 72. However, the Registrar, in the course of entertaining the appeal, instead took

recourse to the powers entrusted under Section 73 . As noted earlier in this

judgment, Section 73 empowers the Registrar where the Sub-Registrar has refused

to register a document on denial of its execution by a person purporting to have

executed it. Subsequently, the Registrar appears to have followed the procedure

which is emphasized in Section 74 . Section 74 provides for a procedure where the

Registrar has a two-fold function of determining: firstly, whether the document has

been executed; and secondly, whether the requirements of the law for the time

being in force have been complied with by the applicant or the person presenting 29 PART C

document for registration, so as to entitle them to have the document registered.

Upon such an enquiry under Section 74 , Section 75 enables the Registrar to order

the document to be registered if it is found that: (i) the document has been executed;

and (ii) the requirements of the law have been complied with. Section 75(4) also

allows the Registrar to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses to properly

conduct the enquiry under Section 74 . 35 Undoubtedly, the power of the Registrar while dealing with an application

under Section 73 are wider that the powers which are entrusted to the Sub-Registrar

under Section 35 . Under Section 35(1)(a) , the registering officer shall register the

document if all the persons executing the document appear in person before the

officer and admit the execution of the document. Section 35(2) empowers the

registering officer to examine anyone present in the office, for the purpose of

satisfying himself that the persons appearing before him are the persons they

represent themselves to be. In contrast to sub-Section (1) of Section 35 , sub-Section

(3) stipulates that once execution is denied by the person who purports to have

executed the document, the registering officer shall refuse to register it. On the other

hand, under Sections 73 and 74 , the Registrar is entrusted with the duty to enquire

whether the document has been executed and whether all the requirements of the

law for the time being have been complied with. For the purposes of this enquiry, Section 75(4) provides the Registrar with the power to summon and enforce the

attendance of witnesses. Thus, while the Sub-Registrar under Section 35(3)(a) has

to mandatorily refuse registration when the execution of a document is denied by the 30 PART C

person purported to have executed the document, the Registrar is entrusted with the

power to conduct an enquiry on an application under Section 73 by following the

procedure under Section 74 . 36 In the present case, the appeal before the Registrar was not maintainable

under Section 72 . Indeed, the appellant, in response to the memo of appeal filed by

the second respondent, specifically pleaded in her objections that ―hearing the

appeal under Section 72 of the Indian Registration Act or to deliver any judgement

will be against law‖. At the same time, however, the appellant also pleaded that she

―had full right for argument under Section 75(4) of the Indian Registration Act and

under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 from the witnesses and the appellant‖. The

Registrar is empowered to summon witnesses under Section 75(4) for the purpose

of an enquiry under Sections 73 and 74 . It thus emerges that the parties proceeded

on the basis that the proceedings would be decided on the basis of an enquiry under Section 73 , and the enquiry was conducted with reference to the provisions of Section 74 . The appellant herself understood this to be the position in her objections

filed to the appeal filed by the second respondent, since she invoked her rights

under Section 75(4) , which applies to enquiry proceedings under Section 74 . The

appeal against the Sub-Registrar‘s order was not maintainable under Section 72 .

The remedy of the second respondent, where the Sub-Registrar refused registration

on the ground that the appellant denied execution of the document, was under 37 Mulla’s commentary on The Registration Act analyses a situation where an

application under Section 73 is wrongly labelled as an appeal under Section 72 , in

the following extract14: 38 Thus, it is clear that the mis-labelling of an application under Section 73 as an

appeal under Section 72 would by itself not vitiate the proceedings before the

Registrar. This becomes especially true when proceedings before the Registrar, in

substance, were proceedings under Section 73 itself and both the parties

acknowledged them to be so, explicitly or by their conduct. This is clearly what has 14 Justice K Kannan, Mulla’s The Registration Act (LexisNexis, 2012) pg 416 ("Mulla‟s The Registration Act ‖) 15 S P Sen Gupta, Commentaries on the Registration Act, 1908 (Kamal Law House, 2017) pgs 617-618 (―S P Sen
Gupta Commentary‖) 32 PART C

happened in the present case as well, as is evident from the appellant‘s reference to Section 75(4) and her participation in the enquiry proceedings before the District

Registrar. Therefore, we hold that the second respondent‘s mis-labelling of their

application as an appeal under Section 72 will not vitiate the proceedings which led

to the District Registrar‘s order dated 31 March 2012. Hence, for the purpose of

these proceedings, we will now proceed to analyse as to whether the District

Registrar validly passed the order directing the registration of the sale deed. execution of the document‖, while Section 35(3)(a) uses the expression ―denies its

execution‖. Similarly, Section 72(1) has adopted the expression ―denial of

execution‖, while Section 73(1) uses the expression ―denies its execution‖. However,

the word ―execution‖ itself is not defined by the Registration Act . Before us, two

possible interpretations have been urged by the parties: Hence, even if a person‘s signature on the document admitted, they can still 33 PART C

 deny its execution if they did not agree to or understand the contents of the

 document while signing it. We must now decide which of these two interpretations should be adopted by this

Court. 40 The first interpretation of ―execution‖ is supported by the definition provided in

the Stamp Act 189916. Section 2(12) defines ―executed‖ and ―execution‖ in the

following terms: 41 Black’s Law Dictionary defines the expression ―execute‖ and ―executed‖

thus17: Further, by executed contract is frequently meant one that
 has been fully performed by both parties." William R. Anson,
 Principles of the Law of Contract 26 n.* (Arthur l. Corbin ed.,
 3d Am. ed. 1919).‖

The expression ―execute‖ has been further defined in Words and Phrases in the

following terms18: 42 Mulla‟s The Registration Act (supra) notes the following in relation to the

meaning of ―execution‖19: 43 This understanding of the phrase ―execution‖ is also adopted by textbooks in

relation to the law of evidence. Section 6821 of the Indian Evidence Act 187222

prescribes the requirement for proving that a document has been executed. The

proviso to Section 68 stipulates that it shall not be necessary to call an attesting

witness to prove the execution of a document if it has been registered under the Registration Act , provided that its execution is not specifically denied by the person

who is purported to have executed it. In relation to this provision, Sarkar’s Law of

Evidence notes23: 44 If we are to now look at the relevant precedent on the subject, in Rajendra

Pratap Singh v. Rameshwar Prasad25 , the validity of a decree of the eviction under

the Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act 1982 was in question

before a two-judge Bench of this Court. This Court, while considering the provisions

of the third paragraph to Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882, noted that

it required that a registered instrument for the lease of an immovable property had to

be executed both by the lessor and lessee. While elaborating on the meaning of

―executing‖, this Court held: 45 In N.M. Ramachandraiah v. State of Karnataka26 , a Single Judge of the

Karnataka High Court, while construing power of the Registrar under Section 74 of

the Registration Act, observed: 26 46 A Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Banasettappa Laljichikkanna

v. District Registrar27 held: 47 In Sayyapparaju Surayya v. Ramchandar Prasad Singh and others28, a

Division Bench of the Madras High Court, while construing the provisions of Section

35(1)(a) and (b) of the Registration Act , observed: 48 In Jogesh Prasad Singh & others v. Ramchandar Prasad Singh and

others29, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court noted that the meaning of the

phrase ―execution‖ of a document had been well settled by another Division Bench 28 1949 SCC OnLine Mad 227 29 1950 SCC OnLine Pat 31 (―Jogesh Prasad Singh‖) 41 PART C

of the High Court in Ebadut Ali v. Muhammad Fareed30 . The decision of the

Division Bench in Ebadut Ali (supra), which was cited with approval in Jogesh

Prasad Singh (supra), held: 49 Adverting to the above decisions and to the views of the Calcutta31, Orissa32

and Assam High Court33, the Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court in N.M.

Ramachandraiah (supra) emphasized that the execution of the document does not

mean merely signing it, but signing it after having understood its contents in their

entirety: 50 The understanding of the Karnataka High Court in N.M. Ramachandraiah (supra) is consistent with precedents emanating from the Privy Council and various

High Courts in India. In Privy Council‘s decision in Puran Chand Nahatta v.

Monmotho Nath Mukherji and Others34, Viscount Sumner , while construing the

provisions of Section 35 of the Registration Act, observed: 51 In Ghasita Ram Bajaj v. Raj Kamal Radio Electronic35 , a Single Judge of

the Delhi High Court, while differentiating between signatures on ordinary

documents and documents stamped in accordance with the law relating to

negotiation of instruments, observed that in the case of ordinary documents: 52 In Kamlabai v. Shantirai36, a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, in

the context of Section 68 of the Evidence Act, held: 53 In S. Ramamurthy v. Jayalakshmi Ammal37 , a Single Judge of the Madras

High Court, while interpreting Section 35 of the Registration Act, observed: 54 In Union Bank of India v. Dhian Pati38, a Single Judge of the Himachal

Pradesh High Court had to determine whether a deed of mortgage had been validly

executed. Since the Indian Contract Act 1872 and the Registration Act did not define

―execution‖, the Single Judge deduced the meaning of the phrase in dictionaries,

legal lexicons and precedent. Thereafter, the Single Judge concluded: 55 While interpreting the provisions of the Evidence Act , In Re Kuttadan

Velayudhan39, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court determined whether the

admission of signature on a document was tantamount to admission of its execution.

After perusing the decisions of the Kerala High Court and other High Court across

India, the Division Bench held: 56 In Bank of Baroda v. Shree Moti Industries40, a Single Judge of the

Bombay High Court, in the context of proving a document under the Evidence Act ,

noted: 57 The ―execution‖ of a document does not stand admitted merely because a

person admits to having signed the document. Such an interpretation accounts for

circumstances where an individual signs a blank paper and it is later converted into

a different document, or when an individual is made to sign a document without fully

understanding its contents. Adopting a contrary interpretation would unfairly put the

burden upon the person denying execution to challenge the registration before a civil

court or a writ court, since registration will have to be allowed once the signature has

been admitted. 58 In giving meaning to the expression ―execute‖ in the provisions of the Registration Act , it is necessary to adopt a purposive construction to protect,

facilitate and achieve the object of registration. In Suraj Lamps and Industries

Private Limited v. State of Haryana & Another41, Justice R V Raveendran,

speaking for a two-judge Bench of this Court, highlighted the purpose of registration: 59 In Bharat Indu and ors v. Hakim Mohammad Hamid Ali Khan42, Lord

Philimore , speaking for the Privy Council, emphasized the purpose of the provisions

of the Registration Act in the following terms: 60 The Registration Act exists so that information about documents can be put

into the public domain, where it can be accessed by anyone in order to prevent

forgeries and fraud, and so that individuals can be aware of the status of properties.

If the interpretation conflating signing with execution is adopted, it would ensure that

the Sub-Registrars/Registrars will continuously end up registering documents whose

validity will inevitably be then disputed in a civil suit or a writ petition. While the suit

or writ proceedings continue, the document would remain on the public records as a

registered instrument, which has the potential to cause more disruption. Hence,

such an interpretation should not be adopted by this Court.

61 However, while adopting the current interpretation – that the admission of

one‘s signature on a document is not equivalent to admission of its execution – it is

important to consider the power of the Sub-Registrar/Registrar and their procedures

under the Registration Act . 62 In Smt. Raisa Begam v. District Registrar, Saharanpur and Anr.43 , a

Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court observed: Hence, when the document was not presented by the proper person before the Sub-

Registrar and the executant denied its execution, it was held that the remedy lay in

filing a civil suit for declaration and specific performance, and not in the summary

proceedings under Sections 72 and 73 of the Registration Act.

63 Section 73 of the Registration Act envisages that an application may be

submitted to the Registrar by a person in order to establish their rights to have a

document registered, in a situation where the Sub-Registrar has refused to register

the document on the ground that the person by whom it purports to have been

executed has denied its execution. Section 74 then lays down the procedure which

is to be followed by the Registrar, which contemplates an enquiry by the Registrar 51 PART C

into whether the document has been executed and whether requirements of law for

the time being in force have been complied with on the part of the applicant or the

person presenting the document for registration. When the twin requirements of

clauses (a) and (b) of Section 74 are found by the Registrar to have been fulfilled,

sub-Section (1) of Section 75 provides that the Registrar shall order the document

be registered. Sub-Section (4) of Section 75 stipulates that for the purpose of the

enquiry under Section 74 , the Registrar may summon and enforce the attendance of

witnesses and compel them to give evidence as if he is a civil court. The Registrar is

also empowered to impose the obligation of paying the costs of the enquiry on a

party, and such costs are to be recovered as if they have been charged in a suit

under the CPC . Thus, sub-Section (4) of Section 75 incorporates a deeming fiction

from two perspectives – first, in empowering the Registrar to summon and enforce

the attendance of witnesses and for compelling them to give evidence ―as if he were

a civil court‖; and second, in awarding costs which become recoverable ―as if they

have been awarded in a suit‖ under the CPC . The process which is conducted by

the Registrar for the purpose of an enquiry under Section 74 cannot be equated to

the powers of the civil court, though certain powers which are entrusted to a civil

court are vested with the Registrar by the provisions of Section 75(4) . A quasi-

judicial function is entrusted to the Registrar for the purpose of conducting an

enquiry under Section 74 . Where the Registrar refuses to register a document under Sections 72 or 76, no appeal lies against such an order. Section 77 , however,

provides that when the Registrar refuses to order the document to be registered, any

person claiming under such document or its representative, assign or agents may 52 PART C

institute a suit before the civil court within the stipulated time for a decree directing

that the document shall be registered. It is thus clear that the Registrar, when he

conducts an enquiry under Section 74 , does not stand constituted as a civil court.

The enquiry before the Registrar is summary in nature. The decision of the Registrar

in ordering document to be registered, or for that matter in refusing to register a

document, is not conclusive and is amenable to judicial review.

64 Therefore, in a situation where an individual admits their signature on a

document but denies its execution, the Sub-Registrar is bound to refuse registration

in accordance with Sections 35(3)(a) of the Registration Act. Subsequently, if an

application if filed under Section 73 , the Registrar is entrusted with the power of

conducting an enquiry of a quasi-judicial nature under Section 74 . If the Registrar

passes an order refusing registration under Section 76 , the party presenting the

document for registration has the remedy of filing a civil suit under Section 77 of the

Registration Act, where a competent civil court will be able to adjudicate upon the

question of fact conclusively. 65 Finally, our attention has been drawn to Section 58(2) of the Registration Act,

which stipulates as follows: 66 At this stage, it would be material to refer to a judgment of this Court in Satya

Pal Anand (supra), where the three-judge Bench was constituted following a

difference of opinion between two Judges. In that case, the mother of the appellant

had been allotted a plot of land by a registered deed by a cooperative society. After

her death, the cooperative society executed a deed of extinguishment unilaterally

cancelling the allotment of the plot and executed a registered deed in favour of the

fifth respondent. The appellant objected to the transaction, following which a

tripartite deed of compromise was reached with the society and the fifth respondent.

Notwithstanding this, the appellant moved the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative

Societies. During the pendency of the dispute, the society permitted the transfer of

the plot to the sixth and seventh respondents. The appellant then moved an

application before the Sub-Registrar for cancelling the registration of the deed of

extinguishment and the two subsequent deeds, but this application was rejected by

the Sub-Registrar, inter alia, on the ground that he had no jurisdiction to cancel the

registration of a registered document. The appellant then moved the Inspector

General of Registration under Section 69 of the Registration Act, who rejected the

application. The writ petition filed by the appellant before the High Court under Article 226 , seeking a declaration of the nullity of the deed of extinguishment and the

two subsequent deeds, was also dismissed by the High Court. In this backdrop, 55 PART C

Justice A M Khanwilkar, speaking for the three-judge Bench, observed that the

appellant had entered into a deed of compromise and accepted valuable

consideration, in spite of which he had instituted a dispute under the Madhya

Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act 1960. Further, pending the dispute, an

application was filed by the appellant before the Sub-Registrar seeking the same

relief of cancellation of the registration of the deed of extinguishment and the

subsequent deeds in favour of the third party. In view of these circumstances, this

Court held that the High Court was justified in declining to entertain a writ petition at

the instance of the appellant: 67 The aforesaid decision does not deal with a situation such as the present

case, where Sub-Registrar had in the first instance declined to order the registration

of the document and the order of the Sub-Registrar was questioned in an appeal

under Section 72 filed by the second respondent. The Registrar, in the course of the

appellate proceedings, purported to hold an enquiry of the nature contemplated

under Section 74 of the Registration Act and concluded that the execution of the

sale deed had been established and it was liable to be registered. The Registrar was

evidently seized of a case where the Sub-Registrar had declined to order

registration on the ground that the execution of the document was denied by the

appellant under Section 35(3)(a) . While exercising the jurisdiction pursuant to the

invocation of the remedy under Section 72 , the Registrar relied on the statements of

the scribe of the sale deed and the attesting witnesses to the effect that the sale

deed had been signed by the appellant and that the appellant had also affixed her

fingerprints on it. However, as rightly pointed out by the appellant, the signing of the

sale deed by her and the affixation of her fingerprints is not in dispute. The real issue

is whether there was due execution of the sale deed by the appellant. The appellant

in the course of her objections specifically pleaded fraud, submitting that: PART C (iii) The sale consideration was seriously undervalued; (iv) The purported sale deed was resulting not only in the transfer of excessive

 land but also the residential house which was in occupation of the appellant

 after the death of her husband; and (v) The full consideration payable under the terms of the transaction had not

 been received by the appellant. The plea of the appellant, that the purported sale deed though signed by her was

procured by fraud and undue influence, was a matter which raised a serious

substantive dispute. In support of her contentions, the appellant has also adduced

before us the inspection report by the Sub-Registrar and the Naib Tahsildar.

However, we are inclined to hold that we cannot decide on the merits of the dispute

at this stage, since the Registrar clearly exceeded his jurisdiction by adjudicating on

the issue of fraud and undue influence. 68 The Registrar purported to exercise the powers conferred under Section 74 and arrived at a finding that the sale deed had been duly signed by the appellant

and was therefore liable to be registered. However, the objections of the appellant

raised serious issues of a triable nature which could only have been addressed

before and adjudicated upon by a court of competent civil jurisdiction. As a matter of

fact, during the course of the hearing, this Court has been apprised of the fact that in

respect of the remaining area of 1000 square meters in the front portion of the land,

a suit for specific performance44 has been instituted by the second respondent, 44 Original Suit No 568 of 2014 59 PART C

resulting in a decree for specific performance dated 16 November 2018. As regards

the subject matter of the sale deed, the second respondent has instituted a suit for

possession before the Civil Judge, Senior Division Fast Track Court 45, where certain

proceedings are pending. In this view of the matter, we are clearly of the opinion that

the Registrar in the present case acted contrary to law by directing the sale deed to

be registered. 69 In the impugned judgment, the Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court has

observed that registration does not depend upon the consent of the executant but on

the Registrar‘s finding that the executant had actually signed the document. The

High Court held that having found in the course of the enquiry that the sale deed

was duly prepared by a scribe, that the attesting witness had stated that the sale

deed was signed by the appellant and she also placed her fingerprints in their

presence, it was open to the Registrar to direct registration in spite of a denial of its

execution by the appellant. In doing so, the Single Judge of the High Court has, with

respect, conflated the mere signing of the sale deed with its execution. For the

reasons mentioned earlier in this judgment, such an approach is completely

erroneous and cannot be upheld. judgment and order of the Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad

dated 31 May 2018 in the appellant‘s writ petition. The order passed by the District

Registrar on 31 March 2012 shall, in the circumstances, stand set aside. However, it

is clarified that the present judgment shall not affect any of the civil/criminal

proceedings that are pending in respect of the subject matter of the transaction. In

the circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.

71 Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. ..…………...…...….......………………........J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …..…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [A S Bopanna]

 …..…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [Bela M Trivedi]

New Delhi; May 10, 2022 61