SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Items went missing from shipment with Agarwal Packers and Movers, learn from my mistake.
DATE: 2019-02-12
SCORE: 133
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/apps8m/np_items_went_missing_from_shipment_with_agarwal/

--- POST TEXT ---

Edit: there is a possibility this is not the 'original' Agarwal. I used www.agarwalpackers.in 
Honestly, this is really confusing. And shocking. Do your research before you do anything, people.

Edit 2: Upon further research, I found out that the one I used is also original. Two brothers started the 'original' Agarwal Packers and then they split and one of them started the packers I used with the same name. I am somewhat thankful it's not a fraud.

Edit 3: maybe the brothers​ story is not real? Just be careful. And learn from my mistake.

I'm only putting it here so that when you use their service, you're not duped like I was.

So I chose Agarwal Packers and movers because they were a brand name. I was moving from Gurgaon to Bangalore, and two guys came to pack my things. They were putting things in randomly into boxes without much regard for where things were going. They were doing it so fast, and were in a hurry.

Note: When they put things into the boxes, make a comprehensive list and get them to note it down on their checklist sheet. These guys made very vague comments on their checklist sheet (box#1- clothes, box#2- kitchen etc) and now Agarwal claims that there is no proof for the items that are missing (i.e., there's no mention of an induction on the checklist.) It is important that THEY note it down.

Fast forward to when the shipment reaches Bangalore, and 7 boxes arrive. So my brother signed off the sheet as there were no missing boxes. A week later I arrived in Bangalore. And when I began unpacking I noticed some expensive items were missing, like my induction and mixie, among other things. I immediately call the toll free number.

From then, it's been a roller coaster ride of going back and forth through so many people and departments. And today they told me that since I signed off on getting all the boxes, they can't do anything. I understand, it's a valid thing. But my question is, how can they, a brand that is supposed to be reputed, not have any rules as to how to fill out the checklist or have a system in place that will prevent things like this from happening? I mean, from the time it left my house to go to the Gurgaon warehouse, it remains unaccounted for. And from the time it leaves Gurgaon warehouse till it reaches Bangalore warehouse, it remains unaccounted for. And from the time it leaves Bangalore warehouse till it reaches my home here, it remains unaccounted for. 

It is easy for all parties involved to say that "Hum toh aise nahi karte madam" (we don't do things like this, madam)

Just, if you use this service, make sure that every single expensive item is accounted for in their official checklist sheet including detais like which box contains which item. 

I lost a lot of money because I was stupid and I hope that the next person will learn from my mistakes.