SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: New to India. Need help figuring out the right way to visit the North(Himachal Pradesh).
DATE: 2016-03-07
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/49bp8z/new_to_india_need_help_figuring_out_the_right_way/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello guys, I am an expat from the US here in India for a couple of months. Work stuff related to IT. For starters, I am based out of Pune. And before you ask, yes, I really love India except for a couple of hiccups which is expected. I would like to visit a couple of places in Himachal Pradesh. I have Dharamsala/Kulu/Kasol in mind. I have no clue if there are much better places there which I am missing. Or if these places are tourist shitholes. These were places mentioned by a coworker. 

Let me put this out right away, no, I am not like your typical pajama wearing western hippie you see in Goa. I am a normal guy who wears your typical work wear to work and goes out shopping wearing flip flops and a tank top. I have no experience as a traveler at all. And I don't get chauffeured around in a BMW haha. Saying this because I have noticed a lot of the guys in the place I am working in think western working professionals visiting India are money banks. Which is plain funny to us and we joke about it. No offense to anyone but I guess it's just the way the economy runs here.

With that out of the way, I hope you get the idea what guy you are dealing with haha. 

An Indian coworker pointed me to some touring packages on the web which I can buy and everything would be taken care of. Fine by me. But I am really skeptical to buy them as my experience says these are kind of scam-mish? At least in the States they are. Sorry, if I am misinterpreting anything here. But to be honest they scream scam right from the word go. 

I have no clue how much budget I should keep for two of us for a week long trip up there. Yes, I would also be accompanied by a female friend who is also an expat. 

We plan on taking the fastest train till New Delhi and no clue after that. Heard lot of good things about the Indian Railways so we train now.

Need you guys to point me towards a right path as to how to plan out this trip. I don't want to be scammed. I want to make sure if I am buying a package online its trusted. I don't want to list out the packages or whatever these sites are promoting but I would like to know if there are other ways to explore Himachal Pradesh. Also, how much should I keep aside as a budget? We are not thiking of flashy hotels. We are okay with typical small town hotels too. 

My instinct says, I should just travel there and figure things out as we travel from one city to another. But you guys would know better than me. 

Any pointers guys?

EDIT: Just so we don't miss out on important stuff, we are gonna have to do this around early June before we head out of the country.