SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Readymade PSA message for Family groups.
DATE: 2024-10-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1gd2pvr/readymade_psa_message_for_family_groups/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone. I know we have some seniors in our families and friends groups and they are the most vulnerable to online scams. So, am putting this out as a PSA that may be copy-pasted on your WhatsApp or Telegram or Signal to be sent to your groups. It is readymade to cover most situations. I wrote it for my family group last night, and thought it'd help everyone (Image: India Today):

Hello family &amp; friends,

This is a PSA from your younger relative/friend. Please read carefully.

1. If you are called about how the TRAI is going to disconnect your phone, do not respond. It is a scam.
2. If you are called by FedEx about a package and asked to press 1 or whatever, do not respond. It is a scam.
3. If a police officer calls you and talks to you about your Aadhaar, do not respond. It is a scam.
4. If they tell you that you are under 'digital arrest', do not respond. It is a scam.
5. It they tell you that drugs have been discovered in some package meant for you or sent by you, do not respond. It is a scam.
6. If they say you can't tell anyone, do not listen to them. Tell me.
7. If they contact you using WhatsApp or SMS, do not respond. It is a scam.
8. If anyone calls you and tells you they have sent money to your UPI id by mistake and that they just want their money back, do not respond. It is a scam.
9. If someone says they want to buy your car or your washing machine or your sofa and say they are from the army or CRPF and show you their id card, do not respond. It is a scam.
10. If someone says they are calling from Swiggy or Zomato and need you to confirm your address by pressing 1 or anything else, do not respond. It is a scam.
11. If they ask you to share OTP just to cancel the order or ride or whatever, do not respond. It is a scam. In any case, do not share your OTP with anyone over phone.
12. If you are offered a deal that seems too good to be true, whether on Facebook, OLX, WhatsApp, or wherever else, there's a 99% possibility your gut feeling is right and it is a scam. Do not proceed. Ideally, call me and I'll help you figure out if it's a good deal or a scam.

As a matter of digital hygiene, do NOT share your address, location, phone, Aadahar, PAN, DoB, or ANY personal detail with ANYONE over phone or messages. In fact, refuse even to acknowledge your own name on a call. Tell them that since they called you, they are supposed to know your name, number, and whatever detail they wish you to 'confirm'. Even if they have your details, do not confirm or deny or get caught up in any conversation. Simply disconnect and block. And then call me. I am serious.

In every one of these cases, and similar ones, the procedure to safeguard yourself is simple: cut the call, note the number, and *CALL ME*. I beg you not to be scared, not to press any numbers, not to listen to them. Simply cut the call, block the number, call me. If it is a message you've received, send it to me asking for authentication. I will help you navigate this. You are not alone. Do not be scared. If it is a genuine call, it will be easy to find out and respond. Remember, if they are putting pressure on you, intimidating you, or forcing you to act or respond immediately, it is a scam.

I want you to be very very careful, and have a safe time online. Thank you.