SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Cryptocurrencies PSA
DATE: 2018-01-27
SCORE: 83
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7tbt47/cryptocurrencies_psa/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello randians,

I don't know why I'm putting effort to write a post on cryptocurrency but here it is. I see a lot of people here longing for financial independence and I thought I'd write about the path I think is the most viable and futuristic right now.

15% interest rates aren't going to change your world. I'm not even gonna say that cryptocurrencies are not risky. They're risky af. They might go down 50% tomorrow and still have the have disruptive aspects but it's speculation which makes money. If you are one of those people who have a steadfast view that crypto is a scam and scheme for 'money-laundering and terrorism' and has no 'real value' behind it, you're free to stop reading. If you have an open mind, go ahead.

Our ancestors speculated on land and made shit ton of money and no-one calls land a bubble because they aren’t ready to sell at a low price even if it is. And because it's a ‘tangible' asset. But tell me, what tangible assets does facebook or uber or google have? The value of an asset is not just determined by what you see physically, it's also the value of the network which in facebook's case is worth a lot because it provides a platform for effective advertising.

Now if I say I make a facebook like network where besides facebook's transfer of information, you could also transfer value over the internet without a third-party institution, that network has a huge worth. Like Bitcoin shows us. And crypto goes up so much so fast because if 'being a part of one network' goes viral, a lot of people join it and very few are ready to exit. And they get paid a lot to allow new people to enter by holding the tokens which power these network.

https://twitter.com/naval/status/877467629308395521

I love the summary of political/economic/psychological/financial aspects of blockchain from the above tweets. Follow this guy and set notifications for his tweet and you’re in for great wisdom everyday. He’s one of the greatest thinkers of our times.

So okay, there are a lot of strategies to make money in crypto.

1. *Existing big-cap currencies (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Monero, Stellar, Dash, Zcash etc.)* - These aren’t great speculative investments and won’t give you 10x-20x but they surely are a good hedgeagainstb risk when you go for the low-cap coins in the rabbit hole. These should comprise probably half the value of your portfolio.
2. *Existing small-cap tokens (Origin Trail, Simple Token, Oddysey, Trinity, TheKey etc)* - These are the ones that have higher speculative value because of low market cap and can go very high if the fundamental analysis (team, plan, execution, use-cases, markets, competitors, etc). Once you’re in the ecosystem, you’ll start hearing about these when they’re at a 100-200 million valuation and the good ones typically go to &gt;500, so 5x return is the average I’ve got.
3. *ICOs* - This is where is gets interesting. I keep hearing ICOs are a bubble, but let me tell you how many people in the ‘whole world’ invest in ICOs. 6 months back they were 5000 and now they’re 30000. Still an insanely low number given it’s such a ‘big bubble’. You can use this website to check out the stats for returns from various ICOs on https://icostats.com/. In my 1 year with crypto, I didn’t see even one ICO giving less than 5x till now. Not that past performance can predict future, this is still a great way to make money. The best way to research ICOs is to get in the rabbit hole and spend some time to find the ones with good specs and hype and go into it. And if the FA is good, 5x is really easy in a month.

Now after hearing all this, you’d be thinking this looks too insane to be true and I wholeheartedly supported your hypothesis till last year but when I entered the scene and saw how much work was being done and how many great products were being made, my views changed.

And this is a risky place to put your money in. My only point is, don’t miss out on a revolution or gold rush, whatever you want to call it, because governments or people around you say it’s a bubble without understanding any of it. I have gone into the rabbit hole and researched ICOs and currencies for day-in and day-out and the whole ecosystem is nothing short of a revolution.

If you are a student and don’t have money to invest, invest in a skill. Learn blockchain development. It is the hottest profession on Earth right now. Google/facebook/uber attrition rate went on record high because people kept leaving to be a part of the cryptocurrencies development. If you have some money you ‘can afford to lose and not care about it’, put it in a few currencies and ICOs. Buy a little more if it goes down and keep lowering the dollar cost average. Forget about this money and it could be like a home your grandad bought in pennies which most of the people can’t afford now.

The post is cringey and different from how I wanted to structure it but there is so much info that it’s difficult to put in in one post.

Now for the research, we in this community ask everyone to DYOR (do your own research, but I’d leave a few links as starters)

https://www.icodrops.com - A place to find upcoming ICOs and details on them.

https://twitter.com/naval/lists/crypto - A great twitter list by my favorite twitter person.

https://np.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/ - Take coins mentioned here with a grain of salt, because they come here after everyone in the slack/telegram community have already accumulated at lower prices. But it’s a good source of info.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2zH-T_hmLs - Absolutely love Andreas Antonopoulos.

http://lopp.net/bitcoin.html - Technical resources for someone who wants to go into the technology. This is a great source of a holistic info.

https://www.upfolio.com/100-coins-explained - Info on usefulness of these tokens. Pick up the ons you find interesting and start researching.

I think I’ve given you guys a lot of do and think about over the weekend. Do your research, follow the market and observe how it moves. Then enter with a strategy when you feel comfortable. Just don’t completely miss out on it. PM me for anymore details and I’d probably respond if I feel like.

Rules I follow:

1. Don’t panic sell. Don’t sell low and don’t try to time the market. HODL. I’ve seen &gt;50% crashes more than 5 times and I just buy the dip each time and make profit.

2. ICOs ICOs ICOs. They’ve just got started and the best way to make money.

3. Don’t invest anymore than what you can afford to lose.

4. Please don’t buy vaporware coins like Cardano, Ripple, Tron, Verge which have no real use-case and just run on hype.

5. And last but not the least, have fun. This is a parallel universe with moon and lambo memes and billions of dollars. There’s so much drama everyday that once you enter, you won’t be able to live without it.

I hope to have sparked the curiosity of a few people here. Don’t believe anything I say. Do your research. Sit through the weekend and read about it and I can assure you, it will be life-changing. I have got a lot of people into crypto and it changed everyone’s life. I even acknowledge it can take a downturn anytime, but why not enjoy the ride till it lasts. At least you wouldn’t have missed out on a revolution bigger than the internet imho.

The whole thing sounds cringey af but I'll post it anyway. Feel free to DM for anything more you'd want to know.