% 22.08.2024

 CRL.M.A. 25012/2024 (exemption from filing certified copies of
 annexures) 1. Exemptions allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition is filed seeking quashing of FIR No.
 14/2019 dated 13.05.2019, registered at Police Station Raja
 Garden (Metro), for offences under Sections 354C / 506 / 509 of the
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '), including all consequential
 proceedings arising therefrom. The said FIR was registered on a CRL.M.C. 6544/2024 Page 1 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:36
 complaint filed by Respondent No. 2. The chargesheet has been
 filed in the present case under Sections 354C / 354D / 506 / 509 of
 the IPC. 4. It is alleged by Respondent No.2/complainant that the
 petitioner passed indecent remarks, misbehaved with her and
 made inappropriate gestures towards her when she objected to
 the same, he threatened her which led to the registration of the
 present FIR. 5. The present petition is filed on the ground that the parties
 have amicably settled all their disputes and have entered into a
 Memorandum of Understanding/Settlement Deed dated
 16.07.2024, on their own free will, without any fear, pressure,
 coercion, or undue influence. In terms of the settlement, the
 parties have agreed that they will approach and appear before this
 Court seeking quashing of the present FIR. 6. The petitioner has since unconditionally apologized for his
 misbehaviour and the parties have amicably resolved the matter. 7. The parties are present in person and have been duly
 identified by the Investigating Officer. 8. On being asked, Respondent No. 2, states that she is
 satisfied with the unconditional apology tendered by the
 petitioner and she does not wish to pursue the proceedings arising
 out of the present FIR and has no objection if the present
 proceedings are quashed. 9. Offences under Sections 506 and 509 of the IPC is
 compoundable whereas offences under Sections 354C / 354D of
 the IPC is non-compoundable. 10. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha
 Sanhita (BNSS) can compound offences which are non- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:36
 compoundable under the Code on the ground that there is a
 compromise between the accused and the complainant. The
 Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and guidelines for
 High Court while accepting settlement and quashing the
 proceedings. In the case of Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of
 Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 had observed as under :- While exercising the power the High Court is
 to form an opinion on either of the aforesaid
 two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in
 those prosecutions which involve heinous and CRL.M.C. 6544/2024 Page 3 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:37
 serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such
 offences are not private in nature and have a
 serious impact on society. Similarly, for the
 offences alleged to have been committed
 under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity
 are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly civil
 character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among
 themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High
 Court is to examine as to whether the
 possibility of conviction is remote and bleak
 and continuation of criminal cases would put
 the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him
 by not quashing the criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 11. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:37
 or a criminal proceeding on the ground that a
 settlement has been arrived at between the
 offender and the victim is not the same as the
 invocation of jurisdiction for the purpose of
 compounding an offence. While compounding
 an offence, the power of the court is governed
 by the provisions of Section 320 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973. The power to quash
 under Section 482 is attracted even if the
 offence is non-compoundable. 16.3. In forming an opinion whether a criminal
 proceeding or complaint should be quashed in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482,
 the High Court must evaluate whether the ends
 of justice would justify the exercise of the
 inherent power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High
 Court has a wide ambit and plenitude it has to
 be exercised (i) to secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of the process of any
 court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on
 the ground that the offender and victim have
 settled the dispute, revolves ultimately on the
 facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the
 dispute has been settled, the High Court must
 have due regard to the nature and gravity of
 the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot
 appropriately be quashed though the victim or
 the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact
 upon society. The decision to continue with
 the trial in such cases is founded on the
 overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:37
 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences,
 there may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to
 quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which
 arise from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash
 the criminal proceeding if in view of the
 compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would
 cause oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle
 set out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have
 implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The
 High Court would be justified in declining to
 quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to a financial or economic fraud
 or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied) 12. In the present case, Respondent No.2 has stated that she
 has no remaining grievance against the petitioner and that she is
 satisfied with the petitioner's unconditional apology. In the
 peculiar circumstances of this case, it is unlikely that the present
 FIR will result in a conviction when Respondent No.2 does not
 wish to pursue the case and in such circumstances, continuation
 of the proceedings would only cause undue harassment and
 heartburn to Respondent No.2. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:37 13. Keeping in view the nature of dispute and that the parties
 have amicably entered into a settlement, this Court feels that no
 useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute alive and
 continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse of the
 process of Court. I am of the opinion that this is a fit case to
 exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 528 of the
 BNSS. 14. However, keeping in mind the fact that the charge sheet
 has already been filed in the case arising out of the present FIR,
 and the State machinery has been put to motion, ends of justice
 would be served if the petitioner is put to cost. 15. In view of the above, FIR No. 86/2021 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to payment of cost of ₹5,000/- by the petitioner, to be deposited
 with the Delhi Police Welfare Society within a period of six
 weeks. 16. The proof of deposit of cost be submitted with the
 concerned Investigating Officer. 17. The present petition is allowed in aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 AUGUST 22, 2024
 'Aman' CRL.M.C. 6544/2024 Page 7 of 7 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 06/09/2024 at 22:16:37