SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Today I'll tell you people how my dad gave away ₹28k to an stranger over a call
DATE: 2021-04-09
SCORE: 1846
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/mng0rj/today_ill_tell_you_people_how_my_dad_gave_away/

--- POST TEXT ---

I didn't find a relevant subreddit to post this, so here I am.

Long read.

We put a house for rent, on Magic Bricks. It was not being occupied for over 3 months since we put it there. 

Today morning we received a call from a man, speaking in Hindi, and that he wanted the house. He said he was a government employee. He said that he was being transferred from Guwahati to Hyderabad, and that his work starts here on 15th. He said he was coming with his family. He didn't care how the house looked and wanted to shift right away. He was ready for payment. Shifting right away should've been the first hint for my dad to stop this thing.

We were happy he talked with my dad. We asked for a two month advance on the property. He accepted. We sent the contract and he agreed. My dad's generally a stickler for details. The contract was 7 pages long. My dad's the kind of guy who when we bought a different house, he sent 160 cracks in the tiles of the house and got them all repaired. He once made Godrej replace an entire refrigerator, as it was making noise. It was OUT of warranty, he did that over freaking written post letters.

My dad asked him for his aadhar, PAN and ID card. He sent all of them, over WhatsApp. He sent a CRPF ID Card. It is either stolen or fake. The name on them was Ram Vilas Yadav Singh.

His scheme works like this, he requests money from you. A classic. To gain trust, he first requests for ₹1 over PayTM. He tried to convince us that accepting the request, that is clicking the "pay" option over PayTM will credit money. My dad trying to disprove him, he clicks on pay, since it was only ₹1. He sent back ₹2, which my dad didn't see. He told us to check the balance, and the balance increased by ₹1. 

Then he eventually requests ₹28,000, in various installments. ₹4,999*3+ ₹10,000+₹3,000. Can't belive my Dad fell for this 5 times in this same call. 

Our language is not natively Hindi, so there was that, but my dad could speak decently. Caller was also telling to it fast, as his boss was pushing him. Under these conditions my dad succumbed to give the money. Goddammit. It was gone.

My dad had checked his bank statement. Deducted. With names like CcAvenue. And Ram Vilas and some other stuff.

We tried to talk to him again, he lifted. We asked for your money. He said he was sending it, he again tries the same thing. Luckily now my dad didn't fall again

Afterwards like 5 minutes later, we call him, he says he was in a bank, and would transfer it. We asked which bank he cut the call. 

I am sure we won't get the money back. My dad called out bank and is explaining the situation as if we didn't accept the transactions. It was suggested by my dad's friend who was well settled in a high position in the same bank.

I told the whole situation to my dad, he understood how he was scammed. My dad will probably register a police complaint. The person deleted all the IDs he sent over WhatsApp. 

Lol it was my dad's fault all along. This post is to raise awareness for future potential buyers, sellers, agents, tenants and renters. 

Put the flair as Non-Political and didn't find a relevant one. Maybe in the future we could have an "awareness" flair.

Edit:

Guess what my dad's a software engineer lmao

Edit 2:

Apparently the CCAvenue he used wasn't the real one. He used "CCAvenues" (with the s) are merchant name. You can keep anything as merchant name. According to a few sources, these people buy used offline accounts from newly graduated etc people. They use a procedure to make it online, and keep such names. So therefore I can't complain to the real CCAvenue.