Advocates who appeared in this case: The Aircraft, which is owned by respondent no. 2, i.e., Peel Aviation Ltd (in
short PAL), was leased to an Indian company by the name of Golden Wings
Pvt. Ltd. (in short GWPL). 1.1 Under a financing arrangement, a loan was extended by the petitioner
to PAL which was secured by creating a mortgage on the said aircraft.
1.2 The instrument of mortgage, inter alia confers on the petitioner the
right to seek de-registration of the Aircraft, from the jurisdiction of the
concerned State Registry. The State Registry, is defined in the instrument WP(C) 792/2012 Page 1 of 22 of mortgage, as the national jurisdiction; in which the aircraft is registered;
which presently would be India. 2 The petitioner seeks to exercise, its right of de-registration, which is
resisted by respondent no. 1, i.e., the Director General of Civil Aviation (in
short DGCA) at the behest of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (in
short DRI), i.e., respondent no. 3. An intimation in this behalf was issued by
DRI to DGCA on 10.12.2010. The upshot of this communication is that,
even though GWPL had imported the Aircraft in issue, into India under a
Non-Scheduled Operator Permit (NSOP) no. 13/208 dated 08.05.2008 at
"nil" rate of duty, since it was apparently not used for the said purpose, a
case of duty evasion was being investigated by DRI. It is on account of this
fact that DRI advised DGCA, not to de-register the Aircraft. Furthermore,
in the very same communication DRI acknowledged the fact that, the
Aircraft was located at London, and that the lessor of the Aircraft was PAL.
3 The petitioner is, essentially, aggrieved by the refusal of DGCA to de-
register the Aircraft based on the aforementioned communication dated
10.12.2010 issued by DRI. DGCA by itself, as is emerged, during the
course of arguments advanced before me, has no objection to the de-
registration of the said Aircraft. 4. Briefly, the aforementioned grievance of the petitioner arises in the
background of the following broad, but relevant facts: Apparently, on 15.07.2008, the very same entities entered into yet another WP(C) 792/2012 Page 2 of 22 lease agreement (in short the `July lease‟), whereby it was agreed to
terminate the „May lease‟. 4.2 The petitioner, however, avers that it is unaware as to whether the
July lease was filed with DGCA. Apparently, in the interregnum, on
16.04.2008, DGCA granted a No-Objection Certificate (in short NOC) to
GWPL, to import the said Aircraft to India. 4.3 With the NOC in place, the said Aircraft was flown into India on
17.04.2008; whereupon, it is claimed by the petitioner, the Aircraft was
received in India and custom duty amounting to Rs.28,880/- was paid by
GWPL. Pertinently, as noticed above, the stand of DRI is that the Aircraft
was imported into India at nil rate of duty. 4.4 Evidently, on 25.04.2008, DGCA issued a certificate of registration
which carried an endorsement that the mortgagee of the Aircraft was the
petitioner. To be noted, the certificate of registration, as indicated therein,
is otherwise valid till 14.04.2015. 4.5 On 07.05.2008, the petitioner apparently entered into a loan
agreement with PAL. It is averred by the petitioner that, pursuant to the said
loan agreement, credit facility in the sum of USD 15,885,915/- was agreed
to be extended to PAL to enable it to: firstly, finance in-part, the acquisition
of the Aircraft. Secondly, to refinance the existing credit facility availed by
PAL, from Midland National Life Insurance Company. 4.6 In order to secure the repayment of loan, PAL executed an aircraft
security agreement and mortgage with the petitioner on 05.05.2008
(collectively referred to as mortgage documents). In addition, a supplement
mortgage was executed by PAL on the same date. By virtue of the said
mortgage documents, a first priority mortgage was created by PAL in favour
of the petitioner qua the Aircraft, which included the identified airframes WP(C) 792/2012 Page 3 of 22 and engine etc. What is important to note, is that, by virtue of the
mortgaged document, the petitioner acquired the right to seek de-registration
of the aircraft from the jurisdiction of the State, in which, it was registered.
4.7 It is because the mortgage document required PAL to enter into a
fresh lease agreement, that the `July lease‟ was executed, which resulted in
termination of the `May lease‟. 4.8 Pertinently, India had ratified the convention known as: The Cape
Town Convention on International Interest in Mobile Equipment (in short
the Cape Town Convention); a fact which is reflected in the `July lease‟, as
well. From the point of view of the petitioner, there were two important
documents, which GWPL, i.e., the lessee, executed in favour of the
petitioner. The first document being an irrevocable power of attorney (in
short POA), which empowered the petitioner to seek deregistration of the
aircraft. The second document being: an "irrevocable deregistration and
export request authorization" (in short IDERA). This document was
executed pursuant to the provisions of Article XIII of the Protocol to the
Convention on International Interest in Mobile Equipment on Matters
Specific to Aircraft Equipment (in short the Protocol). Importantly, both
the POA and the IDERA were executed by PAL in favour of the petitioner
on the same date, i.e., 23.04.2008. 4.9 Evidently, the Aircraft was flown out of India on 25.04.2010.
Presently, the Aircraft appears to be parked at the Biggin Hill Airport, in
Kent, United Kingdom (U.K.) , since 23.07.2010. 5. Apparently, the `May lease‟ agreement, executed between PAL and
GWPL, was terminated on 30.09.2010; a notification with respect to which
was issued to GWPL, on 15.10.2010. This fact was confirmed by GWPL WP(C) 792/2012 Page 4 of 22 by its communication dated 21.12.2010. It is not in dispute that for some
odd reason there has been no termination of the `July lease‟ by PAL.
5.1 In the interregnum, by a letter dated 04.11.2010 issued by PAL to
DGCA, PAL while informing DGCA that its dry lease agreement with
GWPL had been terminated on 30.09.2010, also sought, as indicated above,
an export certificate of airworthiness, to be followed by deregistration of the
Aircraft, in order to enable it to register the Aircraft in the U.K.. PAL also
intimated DGCA by this very letter that they had appointed one, Jet
Aviation; an entity based in U.K. for maintaining the Aircraft. DGCA vide
its letter dated 14.12.2010, apparently, sought explanation from GWPL with
regard to the aforesaid aspects as also the circumstances in which the
Aircraft was grounded at a foreign station. 5.2 Evidently, on 10.12.2010, DRI, as indicated above, advised DGCA
not to deregister the Aircraft. 5.3 On the part of GWPL, a response to DGCA‟s communication dated
14.12.2010, was issued vide letter dated 21.12.2010. GWPL informed
DGCA that the Aircraft was flown out of India as GWPL was under scrutiny
since August, 2010 by various statutory authorities including the Income
Tax Department, DRI, Customs, Enforcement Directorate etc., as the
Aircraft has been used by one Sh. Lalit K. Modi. This apart, GWPL also
stated in this very communication that the lease had been terminated on
30.09.2010, as also the fact that PAL had applied for deregistration and
issuance of an export certificate of airworthiness vide its letter dated
04.11.2010, to which it had no objection. 5.4 In response to the same, on 27.12.2010 DGCA informed GWPL that,
its request for deregistration of the Aircraft could not be acceded to, without
obtaining necessary clearance from DRI and the petitioner, i.e., the WP(C) 792/2012 Page 5 of 22 mortgagee. A reference was also made to the fact that no explanation has
been offered by GWPL as to the circumstances in which the Aircraft was
grounded at a foreign station. A copy of the said communication was also
sent inter alia to the petitioner, PAL and DRI. 5.5 In response to the aforementioned communication GWPL, vide
communication dated 04.03.2011, offered the following explanation: 5.6 DGCA, once again, by a letter dated 08.11.2011 informed GWPL
that, its request for deregistration could not be acceded to for two reasons.
Firstly, DRI was investigating the issue of evasion of custom duty and no
clearance had been received for deregistration from the said agency.
Secondly, a NOC /consent of the petitioner for deregistration had not been
received. A copy of this letter was sent inter alia to the petitioner, PAL and
DRI. 5.7 In view of the above, the petitioner vide letter dated 20.04.2011,
furnished their NOC for deregistration of the Aircraft. This communication WP(C) 792/2012 Page 6 of 22 was apparently sent by the solicitors of PAL alongwith their communication
dated 25.04.2011. 5.8 Since no response was received from DGCA, the petitioner through
its solicitors reiterated its request vide communication dated 18.05.2011. It
appears since PAL had defaulted under the loan agreement, by a
communication dated 08.07.2011, the petitioner terminated the loan
agreement and also simultaneously called upon a company by the name of
London Executive Aviation Limited, which was, managing and maintaining
the Aircraft, to transfer the possession of the said Aircraft to the petitioner.
Pursuant to the aforesaid communication, the petitioner, in its capacity as a
mortgagee, took possession of the Aircraft. The above was followed by a
communication dated 21.07.2011 addressed to DGCA which, sought to
convey to DGCA, in no uncertain terms that, since the lease agreement had
been terminated it was desirous of deregistering the Aircraft from the Indian
Aircraft register in consonance with its power and capacity, conferred upon
it, under as the POA of GWPL, as also in its capacity as the mortgagee of
the Aircraft. 5.9 Apparently, meetings in this behalf were held between the officials of
DGCA as well as the solicitors of the petitioner on 02.09.2011, which is
reflected in the email of its solicitor dated 14.09.2011. The aforesaid
meeting was followed up by a communication dated 07.10.2011, issued by
the solicitor of the petitioner, seeking deregistration of the aircraft.
6 DGCA on its part, by letter dated 08.11.2011 informed the
petitioner‟s solicitor that since DRI was investigating the issue of evasion of
custom duty, it could not deregister the Aircraft till completion of
investigation, as conveyed by DRI vide its letter dated 10.12.2010. In sum WP(C) 792/2012 Page 7 of 22 and substance, DGCA conveyed that till it receives the necessary clearance,
it could not deregister the Aircraft. 7 Aggrieved by the above, the petitioner filed the present writ petition
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, whereupon notice was issued
in the petition on 08.02.2012. On the said date, a direction was issued to the
petitioner, to implead DRI, since the DGCA‟s resistance to deregistration of
the Aircraft was based on the communication issued by DRI in that behalf.
7.1 Upon issuance of notice, returns have been filed by both DGCA and
the DRI. Based on the aforesaid, the following submissions have been
made on behalf of the parties before me. SUBMISSIONS OF COUNSELS
8 The petitioner was represented by Mr Amit Sethi, Advocate, while
DGCA was represented by Ms Anjana Gosain, Advocate. The submissions
on behalf of DRI was represented by Mr S.K. Dubey, Advocate.
8.1 Mr Sethi submitted that the decision of the DGCA, not to deregister
the Aircraft at the behest of DRI was illegal for the following reasons: 9. On the other hand Mr Dubey and Ms Gosain submitted that the writ
petition ought to be dismissed on the ground that there was a prima facie
case of evasion of customs duty in the import of the Aircraft in question;
investigation in respect of which was ensuing. Both counsels submitted
that DGCA was well within its powers, both under the provisions of clause (vii) of Sub-rule 6 of Rule 30 of the Aircraft Rules to act in the manner in
which it did, i.e., refuse deregistration of the aircraft.
9.1 It was submitted by the counsels that the petitioner could not exercise
the power under the irrevocable POA or the IDERA in view of the fact that
the lease already stood terminated. 9.2 It was the submissions of the counsels that the charge of evasion of
customs duty was being investigated for the reason that at the point in time
when the Aircraft was imported, exemption was sought from payment of
duty on the specific undertaking that it would be used to provide NSOP
services, whereas it is now found that, since the date of import, the Aircraft
was being used exclusively by one Sh. Lalit K. Modi, for his exclusive
personal travel. 9.3 It was further submitted, investigations had revealed that GWPL, i.e.,
the lessee had not paid any lease rental to the lessor, i.e., PAL. The
counsels submitted that, since the Aircraft had been imported at nil rate of
duty under an exemption notification, whereby, it was required to be used in
a particular manner, as indicated above - the breach of the exemption
conditions had triggered a right to recover duties which were exempted only
if the aircraft was used for the purpose indicated in the notification. In this
behalf reliance was placed on condition no. 104 of notification no. 21/2002-
Cus-s.no. 347B. 10 Mr Dubey, in particular, submitted that, in view of the fact the
conditions of the exemption notification had been violated by GWPL, the
aircraft was liable to be seized/confiscated under the provisions of Section
110 / 111(o) of the Customs Act. 10.1 Mr Dubey relied upon his counter affidavit to contend that no sooner
was an investigation ordered against Sh. Lalit K. Modi in the IPL scam, the
Aircraft was flown out of the country, and, therefore, in order to seek
recovery of the duty evaded, the communication dated 10.12.2010, was
issued by DRI to DGCA advising it, not to deregister the Aircraft.
According to Mr Dubey, the duty evaded in respect of Aircraft in issue, was
to the tune of Rs. 19 crores (approximately), which was, exclusive of
interest and other charges applicable under the Customs Act .
10.2 Mr Dubey further submitted that, the respondents‟ action were in
consonance with provisions of Form No. 4, lodged by the Government of
India (GOI) under the Cape Town Convention at the time of deposit of its
instrument of accession which, empowered GOI to arrest or distrain an
aircraft for payment of amounts owed to it. 10.3 Mr Dubey, when asked, as to the source of DRI‟s power to make the
kind of request which it did vide its communication of 10.12.2010,
addressed to DGCA, relied upon the proviso to Section 110 of the Customs
Act. REASONS
11 Having perused the record and heard the counsels for the parties,
following facts emerge in respect of which there is no perceptible dispute. (i) The petitioner had executed three (3) successive lease agreements
with PAL, i.e., the owner of the Aircraft, in March, May and July of 2002.
These lease agreements have been referred to as the `March lease‟, the `May
lease‟ and the `July lease‟. (ii) The petitioner also executed mortgage documents with PAL, on
05.05.2008. The said mortgage documents, create a first priority mortgage
in favour of the petitioner with regard to identified airframes and engines. (iii) The petitioner has, in its favour, an irrevocable POA and IDERA.
Both documents empower the petitioner to seek deregistration of the
Aircraft. (iv) The DGCA, made an endorsement on the certificate of registration
dated 25.04.2008, recognizing the petitioner as the mortgagee of the
Aircraft. (v) The Aircraft was imported into the country on 16.04.2008, after a
NOC was issued by DGCA. (vi) At the time of import, recourse was taken to the exemption
notification, which, according to DGCA and DRI required the use of the
Aircraft only for NSOP services and not charter services, which were
purportedly availed of by one Sh. Lalit K. Modi. This aspect is also borne
out, on a perusal of the NOC dated 16.04.2008 issued by the DGCA. The WP(C) 792/2012 Page 12 of 22 petitioner claims that, at the time of import of the Aircraft a sum of Rs.
28,882/- was paid as duty by PAL, while DRI says that no duty was paid.
Since the sum is insignificant, nothing much turns on it. Though the perusal
of the bill of entry would show that the rate of basic custom duty is shown as
nil and the total amount of duty in the bill of entry is shown as Rs.28,882/-. (vii) The import of aircraft was subject to the compliance of applicable
provisions of CAR and all other mandatory requirements laid down in that
behalf by DGCA. This was specifically indicated to GWPL, by DGCA,
vide its communication dated 16.04.2008. (viii) The Aircraft was flown out of the country on 25.04.2010 and,
apparently, it is parked at Biggin Hill Airport in Kent, U.K., since
23.07.2010. (ix) On 30.09.2010, the May lease agreement was terminated; a fact which
PAL conveyed to DGCA, vide communication dated 15.10.2010. (x) The DRI, vide its communication dated 10.12.2010, advised DGCA
not to permit deregistration of the Aircraft. (xi) Initially, DGCA had two substantial objections to the deregistration of
the Aircraft. These were: that there was no NOC issued by the petitioner for
deregistration; and secondly, the factum of pendency of investigation by
DRI. This aspect comes to fore in the DGCA‟s letters of 27.12.2010 and
31.03.2011, issued to GWPL. (xii) Since, the NOC issued by the petitioner, was submitted to DGCA by
the solicitor of PAL, alongwith communication dated 25.04.2011, this
objection does not survive. The fact that only, the objection qua the
pendency of investigation by DRI survives, is quite evident upon a perusal
of letter dated 25.05.2011 issued by DGCA to the solicitor of PAL and the
letter dated 08.11.2011 issued to the solicitors of the petitioner. 12 In this background the first question which arises for consideration is: Article XIII: De-registration and export request
 authorisation 1. This Article applies only where a Contracting State
 has made a declaration pursuant to Article XXX (I). 2. Where the debtor has issued an irrevocable de- registration and export request authorisation substantially
 in the form annexed to this Protocol and has submitted
 such authorisation for recordation to the registry
 authority, that authorisation shall be so recorded. 3. The person in whose favour the authorisation has been
 issued (the "authorized party") or its certified designee
 shall be the sole person entitled to exercise the remedies
 specified in Article IX(1) and may do so only in
 accordance with the authorisation and applicable aviation
 safety laws and regulations. Such authorisation may not WP(C) 792/2012 Page 15 of 22 be revoked by the debtor without the consent in writing
 of the authorised party. The registry authority shall
 remove an authorisation from the registry at the request
 of the authorised party. The registry authority and other administrative
 authorities in Contracting States shall expeditiously co-
 operate with and assist the authorised party in exercise of
 the remedies specified in Article IX. (emphasis supplied)

12.3 In view of the provisions of Article IX and XIII, DGCA would, of
necessity, be obliged to render assistance to the petitioner in obtaining
deregistration. The only caveat to the aforesaid obligation appears to be
that which is contained in Form No. 4 of the instrument of accession lodged
by India under the Cape Town Convention. The said lodgement empowers
detention or arrest of an aircraft with the object of recovering amounts owed
to the GOI or any inter-governmental organization or private provider of
public services in India under the extant laws in respect of services provided
to the aircraft. For the sake of convenience the relevant part of Form no. 4
is extracted hereinbelow: 12.4 A bare perusal of the said provision would show that the power
conferred therein is with regard to arrest and detention of the aircraft and not
to prevent its deregistration. Admittedly, the Aircraft is no longer available WP(C) 792/2012 Page 16 of 22 in India, having flown out of India on 25.04.2010. Therefore, the DGCA
cannot now, in my opinion, do indirectly what it cannot achieve directly.
The argument advanced on behalf of the DRI that, since there is reason to
believe that the aircraft,(being "goods", within the meaning of Customs
Act ), is liable to be confiscated on account of the fact that the conditions of
exemption notification were violated cannot be accepted as the Aircraft, i.e.,
the goods in issue, are no longer available within the territorial jurisdiction
of India. The power under Section 110 of the Customs Act cannot extend
beyond the territorial jurisdiction of India. 12.5 The submission of Mr Dubey that since the goods in issue, i.e., the
Aircraft was not available in India, power could be exercised under the
proviso to Section 110 is completely misconceived. A bare reading of Sub-
Section (1) of Section 110 , would show that power contained thereunder is
exercisable where it is not practicable to seize goods in respect of which the
proper officer has reason to believe that the goods in issue, are liable for
confiscation. In such circumstances, the proper officer is empowered to
serve on the owner of the goods in issue, an order that he shall not remove,
part with or otherwise deal with the goods in issue except with his prior
permission. This power is conferred in respect of goods which are
otherwise available within the territorial jurisdiction of India and cannot be
seized, either because of their perishable nature, or their size or such other
circumstances which make it impractical to secure physical custody of the
goods. The word practicable in the proviso cannot be given a meaning
which would extend jurisdiction of the proper officer beyond the territory of
India. 13 A Single Judge of this court in the case of GPA Finance Ltd. (supra)
had an occasion to deal with this issue. In that case, the 1stpetitioner before WP(C) 792/2012 Page 17 of 22 this court was owner of two aircrafts, while the 2ndpetitioner was the lessee
of the aircrafts in issue. The 2ndpetitioner had sub-leased the aircrafts to a
carrier by the name of East-West Airlines. Upon defaults being committed,
the lease with East-West airline, was terminated. In a suit filed in the
Bombay High Court by 2nd petitioner against East-West airline, repossession
of the aircrafts was granted to it subject to certain conditions. Consequently,
the aircrafts were flown out of the country and were thus no longer available
in India. A second round of litigation commenced in this court when, the
petitioners proposed to let out the aircrafts on hire to third parties outside
India. At that stage, deregistration was refused on the ground that the
carrier, i.e., East-West airline had not cleared dues towards in-land travel
tax. 13.1 It is in this context that the court considered: as to whether the power
to arrest and distrain the aircraft could be exercised, when the aircrafts were
no longer available in the country. The relevant observations of this court,
made in that behalf, are as follows: 14. That apart, there is no averment made in the counter affidavit of the
DRI that any such order was served on the owner of the goods in issue (i.e.,
the aircraft) which in this case is PAL. There is another difficulty which is
that the investigation by DRI in the case has commenced, if not earlier, since
10.12.2010 when, it wrote to DGCA requesting it not to release the Aircraft.
The customs authorities, who are required under Sub-Section (2) of Section
110 to return the goods in issue, if notice, as prescribed under Section 124 clause (a) of the customs Act, is not issued within six (6) months of the
seizure of goods. The period of six months, under the proviso, can be
extended, on a sufficient cause being shown by the Commissioner of
Customs, for a period, not exceeding six (6) months. Admittedly, no notice
has been issued under Section 124(a) of the Customs Act, therefore, even if
one were to assume that a seizure was effected within the meaning of the
proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 110 , the non-fulfilment of the
mandatory condition of sub-section (2), would then result in the seizure
dissolving. See J.K. Bardolia Mills vs M.L. Khunger, Dy. Collector & Ors. 1994 ( 5) SCC 332 and Jatin Ahuja vs UOI & Ors. 193(2012) DLT 156
This situation would of course occur only if it is assumed for the sake of
argument that a seizure can be effected qua the goods in issue which, are
located outside the territory of India. For the sake of convenience the WP(C) 792/2012 Page 20 of 22 relevant provisions of Section 110(1) alongwith the proviso and sub-section
(2) of 110 including the proviso is extracted hereinbelow: RAJIV SHAKDHER, J
MARCH 14, 2013
kk WP(C) 792/2012 Page 22 of 22