1. The Petitioner seeks to challenge the Order dated 20.03.2023 passed
 by the Central Information Commission (CIC) to the extent that it has
 denied the access to the copy of agreements entered into by Unique
 Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) with the external organization for
 handling grievance redressal on its behalf. 2. The Petitioner filed an application under Right to Information Act,
 2005 (hereinafter referred to as ' RTI, Act ') seeking the following
 information: 3. The information sought for and the reply given to the Petitioner by the
 Public Information Officer reads as under: 3. If the UIDAI is handling 3. Information pertaining to the
 grievance redressal internally,
 handling grievance redressal
 please state the number of internally cannot be provided
 personnel who have been under section8 (1)(d) of the RTI
 assigned to the job, along with
 Act, 2005. Further, for more
 their ranks. information you may visit UIDAI
 website www.uidai.gov.in. 4. Please state the number of 4. It is intimated that queries in
 complaints handled by the your RTI application does not
 grievance redressal mechanism fall under the purview of
 over since January 1, 2016." information as defined in Section
 2(f) of the RTI Act, 2005. 4. A perusal of the above table reveals that the Public information
 Officer denied information to query Nos.2, 3 and 4. Aggrieved by the denial
 of information, the Petitioner filed an appeal under Section 19 of the RTI
 Act before the First Appellate Authority. The First Appellate Authority
 rejected the appeal filed by the Petitioner vide Order dated 29.04.2022. The
 Petitioner, thereafter, filed a second appeal before the Central Information
 Commission (CIC) under Section 19(3) of the RTI Act. Vide the Order
 impugned herein in the present writ petition, the CIC had directed as under: Therefore, the Commission advised the appellant‟s
 legal counsel to seek specific information duly
 conforming to section 2(f) of the RTI Act, 2005, in the
 future. Apropos, the query no. 1, the legal counsel of the
 appellant sought for the specific web link of the
 relevant regulations/policies, therefore, the CPIO was
 directed to provide the same. Regarding query no. 2, the Commission noted that the
 CPIO ought to have provided the name of the external
 organizations handling its grievance redressal work as
 per the official records. It was further noted that the
 copy of contract entered into by the public authority
 with a private firm can only be provided once the
 contract is completed. If the contract is subsisting and
 has not been discharged, the bar of Section-8(1)(d) of
 the RTI Act, 2005 is attracted. Reliance in this regard
 was placed on the observations of the Division Bench
 of the Hon‟ble Jharkhand High Court in State of
 Jharkhand v. Navin Kumar Sinha and Anr. , AIR
 2008 Jhar 19. The appellant has not specified the
 period for which this information was sought for in his
 main RTI application, therefore, it is deemed that the
 information is being sought for the current
 organization handling the grievance redressal work of
 UIDAI. Since the contract with the current external
 organization is subsisting and has not been
 discharged, the copy of the same cannot be provided to
 the appellant in view of the bar of Section-8(1)(d) of
 the RTI Act, 2005. Therefore, the CPIO is directed to
 provide only the name of the external organization
 handling the grievance redressal work. The Commission also opined that giving the figures of
 the staff handling the grievance redressal and no. of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 4 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 complaints disposed of, as sought for in points no. 3
 and 4 respectively is disclosable as per the RTI Act,
 2005 . The application of exemption clause Section-
 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act, 2005 to deny these figures has
 no merit and basis. Therefore, the CPIO is directed to
 give a revised reply on these points. The CPIO has
 indicated during the hearing that the data was retained
 only for a period of three years, therefore, the
 Commission directed him to provide the information as
 available in the records for the three year period and
 the total number of complaints as per the record. Decision: 5. The CIC held that the query No.1 stood answered as the website link
 of UIDAI i.e., www.uidai.gov.in had been duly provided to the Petitioner. In
 so far as query No.2 was concerned, the CIC held that the CPIO ought to
 have provided the name of the external organisation handling its grievance
 redressal work as per the official records. However, the CPIO denied
 provision of a copy of the contract entered into by UIDAI with a private
 firm to the Petitioner on the ground that the contract was subsisting. The
 CIC was of the opinion that since the contract was subsisting and had not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 5 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 been discharged, the bar of Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act was attracted. The
 CIC placed reliance on a Judgment of the Division Bench of High Court of
 Jharkhand in the case of State of Jharkhand v. Navin Kumar Sinha and Anr. ,
 AIR 2008 Jhar 19. The CIC also observed that the Petitioner has not
 specified the period for which the information was sought in his main RTI
 application, therefore, it has to be presumed that the information is being
 sought by the Petitioner for the current organization handling the grievance
 redressal work of UIDAI. The CIC, therefore, held that since the contract
 with the current external organization is subsisting and has not been
 discharged, the copy of the contract cannot be provided to the Petitioner in
 view of the bar of Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act, 2005. 6. As far as query Nos.3 and 4 are concerned, the CIC set aside the
 opinion of the CPIO and the directed the CPIO to furnish a revised reply on
 these points. The CPIO was directed to disclose the figures of the staff
 handling the grievance redressal work and the number of complaints that
 had been disposed of. The CPIO was directed to ensure that personal
 information of employees and sensitive information must be redacted, and
 redacted appropriately as per Section 10 of the RTI Act, 2005. 7. The portion of the Impugned Order dated 20.03.2023 passed by the
 Central Information Commission (CIC) refusing to disclose the copy of the
 contract entered into by the UIDAI with an external organization for
 handling grievance redressal on behalf of UIDAI is under challenge in the
 present writ petition. 8. Learned Counsel for the Petitioner contends that Section 23(2)(s) of
 the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits
 and Services) Act, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as 'Aadhaar Act') provides Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 6 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 for setting up facilitation centres and a grievance redressal mechanism for
 redressal of grievances of individuals, Registrars, enrolling agencies and
 other service providers. He states that these mechanisms are in the nature of
 public-private partnership agreements and these agreements fall within the
 definition of "information" under Section 2(f) of the RTI Act. He further
 contends that the copy of the agreement cannot come under exemption as
 per Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act because it does not include any
 commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property, the disclosure
 of which would harm the competitive position of a third party. 9. Reliance has been placed by the Petitioner on a decision of a Bench of
 three members of Central Information Commission (CIC) dated 03.09.2009
 passed in Appeal No. CIC/AT/A/2009/000964 in the case of Shri Navroz
 Mody vs. Mumbai Port Trust wherein the private-partnership agreement
 entered into between the Mumbai Port Trust and an external agency was
 directed to be disclosed. 10. Per contra, Learned Counsel for the Respondent contends that
 Section 23(2)(m) of the Aadhaar Act provides that the authority can specify
 by regulations, various processes relating to data management, security
 protocols and other technology safeguards under this Act. He places reliance
 on Section 54(2)(p) which gives power to the authority to make regulations
 regarding various processes relating to data management, security protocol
 and other technology safeguards under clause (m) of sub-section (2) of section 23 . 11. Learned Counsel for the Respondent further draws attention of this
 Court to the Aadhaar (Data Security) Regulations, 2016 (hereinafter
 referred to as ('Regulations, 2016') and more particularly to Regulations Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 7 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 3(1), 3(2)(m) and 3(2)(q) and contends that the authority may specify an
 information security policy setting out the technical and organizational
 measures to be adopted by the Authority and its personnel, as well as
 security measures to be adopted by the agencies, advisors, consultants and
 other service providers engaged by the Authority, Registrar, enrolling
 agency, requesting entities and authentication service agencies and the
 security policy may provide for measures for fraud prevention and effective
 remedies in case of fraud. He, therefore, states that the contract entered into
 by UIDAI with an external agency provides for such clauses which cannot
 be revealed. He also draws attention of this Court to Regulation 5(e) of the
 2016 Regulations to contend that the agency and other service providers
 have to ensure that confidentiality obligations are maintained during the
 terms and on termination of the agreement. He, therefore, states that the
 information will come within the purview of Section 8(d) of the RTI Act,
 2005 and the contract would come under the exemption clause. 12. Heard learned Counsel appearing for the Parties and perused the
 material on record. 13. Sections 2(f) , 8(1)(d) and 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act, 2005, Sections
 23(1) , 23(2)(m) , 23(2)(s) and 54(2)(p) of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of
 Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 and
 Regulations 3(1), 3(2)(m), 3(2)(q) and 5(e) of the Aadhaar (Data Security)
 Regulations, 2016 read as under: 14. A perusal of the abovementioned Section 2(f) of the RTI Act provides
 that "information" means any material in any form, including contracts
 relating to any private body which can be accessed by a public authority
 under any other law for the time being in force. It is not in dispute that the
 UIDAI is a public authority from whom the information is sought and,
 therefore, UIDAI evidently comes within the ambit of the RTI Act . 15. The contract entered into by the UIDAI with an external organization
 shall also, therefore, be considered as "information" which will come within
 the ambit of RTI Act . The contract which has been entered into by the
 UIDAI with an external organization for the purpose of handling grievance Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 10 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 redressal on its behalf is, therefore, information which can be, and should
 be, provided under the RTI Act , as long as this information does not fall
 under any of the exceptions given in Section 8 of the RTI Act. 16. Section 8(1)(d) of the RTI Act provides that information including
 commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property, the disclosure
 of which would harm the competitive position of a third party is exempted
 from the purview of the definition of information given under Section 2(f) of
 the RTI Act. If the competent authority is satisfied that larger public interest
 warrants the disclosure of such information, then such information can be
 disclosed, provided that it does not include trade secrets or intellectual
 property which can have the impact of harming the competitive position of a
 third party. 17. Section 23 of the Aadhaar Act stipulates that the UIDAI, which is the
 authority under the Aadhaar Act, shall develop the policy, procedure and
 systems for issuing Aadhaar numbers to individuals and perform
 authentication thereof under this Act and, for this purpose, it can specify, by
 way of regulations, various processes relating to data management, security
 protocols and other technology safeguards. It has also to set up facilitation
 centres and grievance redressal mechanism for redressal of grievances of
 individuals, Registrars, enrolling agencies and other service providers. The
 power to make regulations for the abovementioned purposes is given under
 Section 54 of the Aadhaar Act. 18. The 2016 Regulations mandate that UIDAI must specify an
 information security policy setting out the technical and organizational
 measures to be adopted by the Authority and its personnel, as well as the
 security measures to be adopted by the agencies, advisors, consultants and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 11 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52 other service providers engaged by the UIDAI. Regulation 3(2)(m) provides
 that security policy should provide for measures for fraud prevention and
 effective remedies in case of fraud. 19. Having laid down the above, the short issue which arises for
 consideration before this Court is whether directing the UIDAI to disclose
 the contract will lead to revelation of certain information which may harm
 commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property and the
 competitive position of a third party. 20. The Central Information Commission has directed UIDAI to provide
 the name of the external organization handling the grievance redressal work
 for UIDAI. This Court does not see any reason as to why the contracts
 entered into between the Respondent and the third party cannot be given
 under the Right to Information Act, 2005 . The contracts have been entered
 into pursuant to the tenders and, therefore, it is necessary that there is a
 complete transparency regarding the way these contracts are awarded. The
 Petitioner has not sought for the details of the individuals which the external
 organization would be handling. However, a reading of Regulation 3(2)(m) mandates that the security policy may provide for the requirement for
 entering into information disclosure agreements with the personnel. 21. This Court is of the opinion that all the agreements entered into
 between the UIDAI and the external organisations which were engaged in
 handling grievance redressal mechanism of the UIDAI can be provided
 excepting the non-disclosure agreements entered into with the personnel and
 also the details of individuals who will be covered under the agreement. The
 confidentiality is to be maintained by the agencies only for the purpose of
 ensuring that the details of the individuals are not revealed to a third party. 22. The entire contract need not be kept a secret and there is nothing
 inappropriate in disclosing of the agreements more so when the recent trend
 is to encourage public participation in such ventures. Further, transparency
 forms the core of good governance, and promotes efficiency and
 effectiveness in the functioning of the government. The abovesaid details
 can be redacted from the agreement and the copies of the agreement, after
 redacting such portions, can be provided to the Petitioner. 23. In view of the above, the Impugned Order stands modified
 accordingly. 24. The writ petition is disposed of, along with pending application(s), if
 any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 OCTOBER 05, 2023
 S. Zakir Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM SINGH KIRMOLIYA W.P.(C) 7865/2023 Page 13 of 13 Signing Date:05.10.2023 19:02:52