20.2 million health records were breached in the first half of 2022 in the US, an analysis by HIPAA Journal reveals . The number of breaches has reduced from 27.6 million in H1-2021, and 22.2 million in H2-2021. Despite this reduction, the number of breaches continues to remain very high. A simple calculation would reveal that over 70 million health records have been breached in the last 18 months.

More about HIPAA journal: HIPAA Journal is a website covering issues related to HIPAA compliance. HIPAA or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 is a federal US law which aims to protect “sensitive patient health information from being disclosed without patients’ consent”, among other things.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

Why it matters: Initiatives like Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM), which aims to digitise health records, also puts the data of Indians at risk of being hacked or leaked, especially in the absence of a strong data protection law. Hospitals and medical websites face a similar risk since they collect and store a lot of health data about patients. This analysis indicates the risks that come digitisation of health records.

Major points to note from HIPAA Journal’s analysis of healthcare data breaches in H1, 2022:

Why India should be worried:

In August 2019, healthcare records of 6.8 million individuals were hacked in India. A Surfshark report states that India was the country with the third highest data breaches in the world in 2021, after the US and Iran. 86 million data breaches occurred in India whereas the number was 212 million in the US. Policymakers can take a cue from the US’s system of making the information about healthcare data breaches publicly available to put accountability on stakeholders. Moreover, India should only proceed towards its digitisation plan with caution and a plan for strong cyber-security.

Limitations to the analysis: The HIPAA Journal website mentions that the total number of breaches reported may change throughout the process of analysing how the data was compromised. They also state that “many HIPAA-regulated entities report data breaches using a placeholder of 500 records, and then submit an amendment, so the final totals may not be reflected in this report.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event