The Senate of the Philippines had announced the introduction of the ‘Anti-False Content Act’ on 1 st July 2019. The proposed anti-fake news bill, as filed by the Senator President Vicente Sotto III, aims to prohibit “the publication and proliferation of false content on the Philippine internet, providing measures to counteract its effects and prescribing penalties therefor.” The Senator, in the explanatory note to the Bill, said that “In the Philippines, widespread are headlines that are mere click-baits; made up quotes attributed to prominent figures; and digitally altered photos. Philipinos have fallen prey to believing that most of them are credible news…. In this regard, this bill seeks to protect the public from the deleterious effects of false and deceiving content online.”

On 25 th July 2019, the international group Human Rights Watch (HRW) opposing the proposed law cited that the Bill is “sweepingly broad and threatens to stifle discussion on websites worldwide” and “would excessively restrict online freedom of speech”, in a news release . Linda Lakhdir, Asia Legal Adviser at HRW, further said that:

“The Philippines ‘false content’ bill, if passed, would make a government department the arbiter of permissible online material,” and that it poses “real risks for activists, journalists, academics, and ordinary people expressing their views on the internet.” She added that “A ‘fake news’ law would open the door for the government to wantonly clamp down on critical opinions or information not only in the Philippines, but around the globe. The bill should immediately be withdrawn and revised to meet international free expression standards.”

The proposed Act declares that the policy of the State is “to protect people from any misleading or false information that is being published and has become prevalent on the internet”. In this regard, the State shall commit to:

It refers to “a provider of service which displays an index of search results that leads the internet users to a specific online location”, giving them access to “contents originating from third parties”, and “allows them to upload and download content”. It includes but not limited to social-networking sites, search engine services, internet-based messaging services, and video-sharing sites.

It refers to the “act of uploading content on an online intermediary with an intent to circulate particular information to the public”.

It refers to those accounts and websites “that has an anonymous author or uses an assumed name in pursuing activities” in order to avoid punishment or legal consequences of such activities.

According to the Section 5 of the proposed Act, the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Cybercrime shall have the authority to issue a rectification order, a takedown order and/or a block access order to restrain the creation and/or publication of the content online that contains false information or that tend to mislead the public.

These orders can be issued by the DOJ Office of Cybercrime in two following cases:

“Public interest shall refer to anything that affects national security, public health, public safety, public order, public confidence in the Government, and international relations of the Philippines.”

According to Section 6 of the Bill, the online publisher or online intermediary who has been issued with Orders under Section 5 of the Bill, can appeal against such Order to the Office of the Secretary of the DOJ.

According to Section 4 of the Bill, the following acts shall be a punishable offense:

Section 8 of the Bill proposes following stringent penalties for the afore-mentioned punishable offenses such that:

Section 9 provides that the regional trial courts will have jurisdiction over Philippine nationals who commit the acts punishable under the proposed law, whether or not they were in the Philippines when the offense was committed.

The Cybercrime Division of the Philippine National Police (PNP) and the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) will be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of the Act.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event