Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said that the U.S. government (Biden administration) pressured Facebook and Instagram to censor content on COVID-19 in 2021, including humour and satire. The revelation came as part of a letter to the United States House of Representatives Judiciary Committee. Zuckerberg said he believed that the pressure was “wrong” and he regretted that Meta was not more outspoken about it.

Further, Zuckerberg stated that in the run-up to the 2020 presidential elections, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) warned Meta about a potential Russian disinformation operation. The operation involved allegations that then-Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s family had accepted funds from Ukrainian energy company Burisma. The Facebook CEO said that Meta demoted a New York Post story reporting on the same, based on this information. However, since it was found that the reporting was not Russian disinformation, he admitted that Meta should not have demoted the story. “We’ve changed our policies and processes to make sure this doesn’t happen again — for instance, we no longer temporarily demote things in the U.S. while waiting for fact-checkers,” he said, adding, “I feel strongly that we should not compromise our content standards due to pressure from any Administration in either direction — and we’re ready to push back if something like this happens again.”

He also stated that he would no longer donate to voting programmes through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative as he did in the previous presidential election cycle. The donations, he said, were intended to be non-partisan and spread across urban, rural, and suburban communities to support electoral infrastructure during a global pandemic.

This letter was addressed to House Judiciary Chairman Jim Jordan who subpoenaed the chief executive officers of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta, and Microsoft for documents and communications relating to the federal government’s reported collusion with Big Tech to suppress free speech in February 2023.

In July 2023, the Committee almost held Zuckerberg in contempt of Congress for Meta’s delay in sharing internal documents pertaining to the investigation. However, this was recalled after Meta cooperated and provided the necessary documents. Jordan shared some of these documents on X, demonstrating the pressure from the White House towards Facebook to take down misinformation on the COVID-19 vaccine.

The White House responded to the letter in a statement to USA TODAY stating, “When confronted with a deadly pandemic, this Administration encouraged responsible actions to protect public health and safety. Our position has been clear and consistent: we believe tech companies and other private actors should take into account the effects their actions have on the American people, while making independent choices about the information they present.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event