SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of phising scam
DATE: 2023-10-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1790cfs/beware_of_phising_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

My mom almost fell for a new phising scam. She was trying to track her passport which is delivered through speed post. She got the tracking number in her email id from the official passport mail and then proceeded to enter that number on this site that she found on Google search 

https://tracknowcourier.online/?gclid=Cj0KCQjwm66pBhDQARIsALIR2zCntnzrafPoHSGzHzRrb0XmiZv2k3xGnNm_erAlzCG0CX3Bv2RIsXoaAvIrEALw_wcB

Ofcourse to the tech savvy people we can differentiate between a phising site and an authentic site, but mom could not. We were not aware that she had done this. 

Later she informs us that she got a msg that some address verification needed to be done and someone will contact her.

Now keep in mind, no official communication was made for the same through passport seva Kendra on mail or sms, this MSG had just popped up on the tracking site, that the address is wrong and will need verification.

Today morning she recieved a call saying she needs to send the address and pincode on this WhatsApp number 7029258238 and also shared another phising site like that was literally made on a wix website! This site was a basic wirefram site with 3 input fields
1. Mobile number
2. Bank name
3. UPI pin

And she proceeded ahead with adding all of these...everytime she hit send it said incorrect input and the guys, apparently who was "guiding her on the phone on what to do" kept asking what other banks you have account in, try them.

I was in a meeting and had just gotten free when I heard her doing this. I immediately asked her to cut the call and took over her phone. 

This guy then proceeded to send another apk link and asked her to download it for the verification. 

In the meantime, she also kept recieving "hi" on sms from another number 9641236829 at least some 10 times in a span of 5 mins. Whenever I tried calling back to that number it went unanswered.

When calling these two numbers we heard an Assamese/ Bangla msg not sure of the language

By this point I stopped responding and changed all her passwords and informed my brother to raise a complaint in cyber cell.

If she had downloaded the apk it could have been much worse. Thankfully no money was lost and a lesson was learnt. 

Screen shots attached

Note-not blurring out the numbers since this is a scam account