Petitioner in all these 3 cases is common. What is called in

question is different crimes registered against the petitioner. Criminal Petition 1375 of 2022 relates to Crime No.13 of 2022

registered for offences punishable under Sections 406 , 420 , 447 , 467 , 468 and 417 of the IPC. Criminal Petition 1330 of 20222

relates to a challenge to crime No.14 of 2022 for the very same

offences. Criminal Petition 1041 of 2022 arises out of Crime No.49

of 2021 registered for offences punishable under Sections 13(1)(a) and 13(2) and Section 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988

('Act' for short). Since the facts that arose for registering the

aforesaid crimes are similar and the petitioner being common,

these matters are taken up together and disposed by this common

order. For the sake of convenience, facts obtaining in Criminal

Petition 1375 of 2022 are considered. 2. Heard Sri Amar Correa, learned counsel appearing for

petitioner, Sri.Mahesh Shetty, learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for respondent No.1 in Crl.P.No.1375 of 2022

and 1330 of 2022 and Sri.B.B.Patil, learned Special Public

Prosecutor appearing for respondent No.1 in Crl.P.No.1041 of 2022

and Smt.B.N.Gauri, learned counsel along with Sri. Vinudeep R.,

learned counsel appearing for respondent No.2, in all the petitions. 3. The genesis of the problem is a Joint Development

Agreement entered into between the petitioner/Company and the

complainant's family. The complainant is the 2nd respondent. The

petitioner is one of the Directors of M/s.KSM Niketan Pvt. Ltd., a

Company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act,

1956 . As observed hereinabove, the Company enters into a

registered Joint Development Agreement of a property in Sy.No.152

measuring 4 acres and 20 guntas situated in K.R.Puram Hobli,

Bengaluru. The agreement is executed by all the children of one

Muninarasamma, who was the owner of the said property. The step

children are said to have been the confirming parties to the said

agreement, which included the complainant. 4. The Company after entering into the agreement, developed

the property into a residential villa project by name Olympia

Enchante. The villa complex comprised of several residential villas. In all, 31 residential villas are constructed and developed by the

Company. It is said that it is developed out of huge expenditure. After the project getting completed, the developer Company applied

for occupancy certificate along with relevant documents. Occupancy certificate was sought to be granted by the Bruhath

Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ('BBMP' for short) pending payment

of a few lakhs as betterment charges. The developer Company sold

their portion of the villas in terms of the sharing agreement that

had been entered into in the year 2012 itself between the family of

the complainant and the petitioner-Company. The purchasers who

have occupied the villas are said to be in peaceful possession of

those villas. 5. The complainant appears to have applied for occupancy

certificate on a particular inter se understanding between the

petitioner and the Company and not the Joint Development

Agreement. One villa, villa No.21 comes to be sold in the year

2016. After about 6 years of the said sale, a crime comes to be

registered on 14-01-2022 alleging the offences as afore-quoted. The contents of the complaint are that the Joint Development

Agreement or the sharing agreement has been breached and the

villa project is not completed within time. The complaint becomes a

crime in Crime No.13 of 2022. Investigation is carried on. On the

same set of facts, comes a second complaint by the very same 9 complainant for the very same offences. This becomes a crime in

Crime No.14 of 2022. Crime No.49 of 2021 is slightly different. It

has public servants involved in the said crime. It is therefore the

offence punishable under Sections 13(1)(a) r/w 13(2) and Section

12 of the PC Act is alleged against the petitioner. Petitioner is

accused No.3 in the said case. The allegation in Crime No.49 of

2021 is that petitioner has attempted to bribe the officers of the

BBMP in securing a occupancy certificate. The moment

investigation commences, the petitioner accused in Criminal

Petitions 1375 of 2022 and 1330 of 2022 has knocked at the doors

of this Court. He is the sole accused in those petitions and accused

No.3 along with officers of BBMP in Criminal Petition No.1041 of

2022. 6. The learned counsel Sri. Amar Correa appearing for the

petitioner would vehemently contend that breach of a Joint

Development Agreement is projected to be an act of crime on the

part of the petitioner and the complainant who is a signatory to the

said Joint Development Agreement and a sharing agreement has

set the criminal law into motion to arm-twist the petitioner to fall in 10 line of the demands of the complainant. He would further contend

that the agreement also contemplates arbitration proceedings as a

dispute resolution mechanism and arbitration notice is also sent by

the 2nd respondent and family, which has been replied too by the

petitioner. He would submit that the petitioner had handed over

the possession of villas in terms of the sharing agreement on

09-10-2017 itself that is acknowledged by the mother of the

complainant on 31-10-2017 and therefore, a breach of agreement

is sought to be projected a crime. He would seek to place reliance

upon plethora of judgments of the Apex Court, which would all bear

consideration qua their relevance in the course of the order. 7. On the other hand, the learned counsel representing the

2nd respondent/complainant would seek to contend that villas that

belonged to the complainant are clandestinely sold by the petitioner

and the Company and have therefore caused huge loss to the

complainant and his family. This clandestine act does become an

act of cheating. It is the allegation that petitioner has connived

with the officials of the BBMP which results in forging signatures of

the complainant and family and securing occupancy certificates 11 from the hands of the BBMP. He would therefore contend that

these are matters which are to be thrashed out in evidence and

seeks dismissal of the petition. Insofar as criminal petition 1041 of

2022 is concerned, it is his submission that Section 12 of the Act

gets completely attracted. He seeks dismissal of the petition. 8. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 9. As observed hereinabove, all these arise out of a common

cause and the genesis of the cause lies in the Joint Development

Agreement entered into between the parties. The parties would be

the petitioner and the family of the complainant. The Joint

Development Agreement is between one Smt. Muninarasamma and

the petitioner representing the Company. The confirming witnesses

to the agreement were many members of the family including the

complainant. This is not in dispute, as they are gathered from the

documents itself. The agreement is entered into on 14-06-2012. Two months thereafter comes about a sharing agreement between 12 the parties on 08-08-2012. The villa project gets completed. Approvals are taken from the statutory authorities. Applications for

occupancy certificate is also made on 02-05-2017. On 09-10-2017,

the petitioner addresses a communication to the complainant's

mother for handing over possession of villas to their share as they

were ready for occupation, in terms of the sharing agreement

between the parties. Dispute arose between the two with regard to

the interpretation of the sharing agreement. 10. In the interregnum, the project is registered before RERA,

occupancy certificate is issued by the BBMP. The dispute subsisted. An arbitration notice is issued by the family of the complainant on

31-07-2020. The petitioner replies to it on 02-09-2020. On 19-10-2020, the petitioner informs the BBMP that the

complainant is undertaking illegal construction in the portion that

was allotted to them. When all these disputes subsisted, the

complaint comes to be registered by the signatory to the Joint

Development Agreement Smt. Muninarasamma to the Anti- corruption Bureau. The complaint was regarding issuance of

occupancy certificate in respect of the villa project. The allegation 13 was, the officers have issued the occupancy certificate in the name

of Smt. Muninarasamma without inspecting the building to confirm

themselves whether the villas are suitable for occupation. This

becomes a crime in Crime No.49 of 2021 for offences punishable

under Sections 13(1)(a) and 13(2) of the Act against the officials of

the BBMP and Section 12 of the Act against the petitioner. During

the investigation of the said crime comes two complaints, both

dated 14-01-2022 which becomes crimes in crime No.13 of 2022

and 14 of 2022. The complainant is the same, the accused is the

petitioner. Since the criminal law is set into motion on the

registration of the complaint, I deem it appropriate to notice the

complaint. The complaint reads as follows: Sir, 1. We, the landowners of residentially converted property
 measuring 4 acres and 20 guntas in Sy. No. 152 situated
 at Hagadur Village, K.R. Puram Hobli, Bangalore East
 Taluk, Bangalore ("Schedule Property") write to you
 complaining against the criminal actions of Mr. Aditya
 Kankaria of M/s KSM Niketan Pvt. Ltd. (the "Accused")
 with whom we had entered into a Joint Development
 Agreement on 14 June 2012 ("JDA") for the
 development of the Schedule Property. 2. The accused has engaged in a criminal conspiracy against
 us and has committed several criminal acts against us,
 including and not limited to negligent act likely to spread
 infection of disease dangerous to life, criminal breach of
 trust, cheating, criminal trespass and criminal
 intimidation. 3. With regard to the above, we set out below the brief
 background of the matter, and our grievances/complaints
 against us: 4. In light of the above, we request your respectable offices
 to take cognizance of the offences committed by Mr.
 Aditya Kankaria of M/s KSM Niketan Pvt. Ltd., and
 register a First Information Report and initiate an
 immediate investigation to take necessary, stringent and
 adequate action against accused under the various
 provisions of the Indian Penal Code as mentioned above,
 and in addition under any other provisions of law existing
 in the country for the time being in force, as your
 respectable offices may deem fit in the interest of justice.
 We deem that our complaint has set out in great detail
 the nature and mode of offences committed by the
 Accused against us and we reiterate our commitment to
 cooperate with you and the department throughout the
 course of this investigation for any clarifications that may
 be needed. 5. We look forward to a positive consideration of our
 complaint and we further request an acknowledgement of
 the complaint for our records." A perusal at the afore-quoted complaint would clearly indicate that

it is cleverly drafted, but the crux of the complaint is, breach of the

agreement which could be gathered from the background narrated

in the complaint. It is clearly a case which is registered on breach

of agreement. Sections 405 and 406 of the IPC are projected in the

complaint on the score that the petitioner has dishonestly

misappropriated and converted villa No.21 to their own use and

have breached the agreement. 11. The entire cheating revolves around villa No.21. Villa

No.21 is said to have been sold in the year 2016. The complaint

is registered on 14-01-2022. There is no explanation worth the

name as to why the complainant sat quiet for 6 long years, when

villa No.21 is allegedly illegally sold in the year 2016. Therefore,

two illegalities spring from the aforesaid complaint, one it is marred

by delay and it alleges breach of agreement. If it is breach of

agreement, the criminal law being set into motion cannot be

permitted to be continued, even if it is at the stage of investigation. 12. The allegations are, the offences punishable under Sections 406 , 420 , 447 , 467 , 468 and 417 of the IPC. Section 406 of the IPC has its ingredients in Section 405 of the IPC which would

require dishonest misappropriation of the property entrusted from

the hands of the victim to the accused. The case arises out of a

Joint Development Agreement. If it is a Joint Development

Agreement and the allegations are breach of the said agreement,

wherefrom the allegation of criminal breach of trust can emerge, it

can never. The other allegation is, cheating as obtaining under Section 420 of the IPC, which has its ingredients in Section 415 of

the IPC. Section 415 of the IPC mandates that the victim should be

lured by the accused for entering into any transaction with a

dishonest intention right from the inception of the transaction. The

complainant cannot be said to be lured into the subject transaction,

as it is a Joint Development Agreement between the parties. The

signatory to the Joint Development Agreement is the mother of the

complainant. Therefore, there can be no dishonest intention right

from the inception of the transaction. Therefore, the offences

under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC can hardly be laid against

the petitioner. 13. The other allegation is forgery, as obtaining under Section

468 of the IPC. Forgery is alleged to have happened in the year

2016 concerning villa No.21. The complaint is registered in 2022. The parties have also initiated arbitration proceeding by issuing

notices invoking the provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act . It is also averred that commercial O.S. is also pending between the

parties. In the teeth of the aforesaid facts, if any indulgence is

shown it would run foul of the judgment of the Apex Court rendered

in the case of MITESH KUMAR J. SHA V. STATE OF KARNATAKA

AND OTHERS1 wherein the Apex Court has held as follows: [Explanation [1].--A person, being an employer [of
 an establishment whether exempted under section 17 of
 the Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous 1 2021 SCC OnLine SC 976 23 Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), or not] who deducts
the employee's contribution from the wages payable to
the employee for credit to a Provident Fund or Family
Pension Fund established by any law for the time being in
force, shall be deemed to have been entrusted with the
amount of the contribution so deducted by him and if he
makes default in the payment of such contribution to the
said Fund in violation of the said law, shall be deemed to
have dishonestly used the amount of the said contribution
in violation of a direction of law as aforesaid.]
[Explanation 2.--A person, being an employer, who
deducts the employees' contribution from the wages
payable to the employee for credit to the Employees'
State Insurance Fund held and administered by the
Employees' State Insurance Corporation established
under the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of
1948), shall be deemed to have been entrusted with the
amount of the contribution so deducted by him and if he
makes default in the payment of such contribution to the
said Fund in violation of the said Act, shall be deemed to
have dishonestly used the amount of the said contribution
in violation of a direction of law as aforesaid.] 406. Punishment for criminal breach of trust--
Whoever commits criminal breach of trust shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or
with both. 419. Punishment for cheating by personation--
Whoever cheats by personation shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. 420. Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of
property-- Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly
induces the person deceived to deliver any property to
any person, or to make, alter or destroy the whole or any
part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or
sealed, and which is capable of being converted into a
valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine." 28. In the instant case, the complaint levelled
against the Appellants herein is one which involves 24 commission of offences of criminal breach of trust
and cheating. While a criminal breach of trust as
postulated under section 405 of the Penal Code,
1860, entails misappropriation or conversion of
another's property for one's own use, with a
dishonest intention, cheating too on the other hand
as an offence defined under section 415 of the
Penal Code, 1860, involves an ingredient of having
a dishonest or fraudulent intention which is aimed
at inducing the other party to deliver any property
to a specific person. Both the sections clearly
prescribed 'dishonest intention', as a pre-condition
for even prima facie establishing the commission of
said offences. Thus, in order to assess the relevant
contentions made by the parties herein, the
question whether actions of the Appellants were
committed in furtherance of a dishonest or
fraudulent scheme is one which requires scrutiny. 29. Coming to the facts of the case at hands,
the contested contention between the parties is
that the builder company had sold four excess flats
beyond its share, in terms of the JDA and
supplementary agreement entered into between the
parties. Respondent No. 2 contends that builder
company which was entitled to sell only 9 flats in
its favour, has instead executed sale deed for 13
flats in total. Thus, the company simply could not
have sold the flats beyond 9 flats for which it was
authorized and resultantly cannot evade criminal
liability on a mere premise that a civil dispute is
already pending between the parties. 30. The Appellants on the other hand contend that
in terms of a subsequent MoU dated 19.02.15, it was
mutually agreed between the parties, that partial
payment for a loan amount borrowed by Respondent No.
2 from Religare Finvest Ltd., would be paid out from the
sale proceeds of the said development project undertaken
by both the parties. Pursuant to this MoU, the Appellants
had agreed to get an NOC for 15 flats by making payment
of Rs. 40,00,000/- for each flat. 31. The key contention, and also the central point
of dispute, made by the Appellants is that, it was
specifically agreed between the parties that the
Appellants would be entitled to sell additional flats beyond
their share, as adjustments for payment made to Religare
Finvest Ltd. on behalf of Respondent No. 2. It is further
contended that Respondent No. 2 had also agreed to
execute a ratification deed to the JDA and GPA
eventually, which would have formally authorised the
Appellants to sell additional apartments. 32. Nonetheless, the ratification deed was never
made and Respondent No. 2 subsequently even revoked
the GPA unilaterally, contending that the terms of JDA
were not followed. 33. It was only after revocation of GPA that
the company filed an application for arbitration
seeking interim orders to restrain the Respondent
No. 2 from alienating the disputed property.
Simultaneously, while this dispute was pending
adjudication before the arbitrator Respondent No. 2
filed a criminal complaint against the Appellants. 34. At this juncture, it further becomes pertinent to
mention that eventually though both the parties partly
succeeded before the arbitrator, in terms of their
respective claims, the arbitrator observed that GPA
indeed could not have been revoked unilaterally at the
instance of Respondent No. 2. Aggrieved, Respondent No.
2 thereafter even preferred a challenge to the award
passed by the arbitrator. Moreover, pending arbitration
proceedings issue regarding selling of excess flats at the
instance of Appellants, was also withdrawn by
Respondent No. 2 seeking liberty to pursue his claim with
regard to selling of four excess flats in pending civil
proceedings. 35. Upon a careful assessment of such facts, by no
stretch can it be concluded that the Appellants herein
have deceptively or intentionally tried to sell excess flats
if any, as contended by Respondent No. 2. Here, it must
also be borne in mind that subsequent to the revocation 26 of GPA, it was the Appellants herein who had first
resorted to arbitration proceedings on 02.03.16 for
redressal of dispute between the parties, to which
Respondent No 2 had accordingly filed his statement of
objections dated 09.03.16. It was only on 29.03.16 that
Respondent No. 2 had filed the FIR in question bearing
Crime No. 185/2016 against the Appellants. Moreover, it
was Respondent No. 2 who had withdrawn his prayer with
respect to selling of four excess flats by the Appellants,
only to pursue the same in civil proceedings. 36. At this stage, by placing reliance on the
judgment of this Court in Priti Saraf v. State of NCT of
Delhi (Supra ) and Sri Krishna Agencies v. State of Andhra
Pradesh (Supra), it has been further submitted by
Respondent No. 2 that Appellants cannot evade a criminal
case by merely contending that the person whose
property has been sold has filed a civil suit for recovery of
the property, or that the dispute had been referred to
arbitration. 37. Although, there is perhaps not even an
iota of doubt that a singular factual premise can
give rise to a dispute which is both, of a civil as well
as criminal nature, each of which could be pursued
regardless of the other. In the instant case, the
actual question which requires consideration is not
whether a criminal case could be pursued in the
presence of a civil suit, but whether the relevant
ingredients for a criminal case are even prima facie
made out. Relying on the facts as discussed in
previous paragraphs, clearly no cogent case
regarding a criminal breach of trust or cheating is
made out. 38. The dispute between the parties, could at
best be termed as one involving a mere breach of
contract. Now, whether and what, is the difference
between a mere breach of contract and an offence
of cheating has been discussed in the ensuing
paragraphs. Whether sale of excess flats even if made
amounts to a mere breach of contract? .... .... .... 45. Applying this dictum to the instant factual
matrix, it can be safely concluded that the present
case clearly falls within the ambit of first, third and
fifth category of the seven categories enlisted in the
above said judgment. The case therefore warrants
intervention by this Court, and the High Court has
erred in dismissing the petition filed by the
Appellants under section 482 CrPC. We find that
there has been attempt to stretch the contours of a
civil dispute and thereby essentially impart a
criminal color to it. 46. Recently, this Court in case of Randheer
Singh v. The State of U.P.10 , has again reiterated
the long standing principle that criminal
proceedings must not be used as instruments of
harassment. The court observed as under:-- 47. Moreover, this Court has at innumerable
instances expressed its disapproval for imparting
criminal color to a civil dispute, made merely to
take advantage of a relatively quick relief granted
in a criminal case in contrast to a civil dispute. Such
an exercise is nothing but an abuse of the process
of law which must be discouraged in its entirety." (Emphasis supplied) 28 The said judgment in the case of MITESH KUMAR J. SHA V.

STATE OF KARNATAKA AND OTHERS supra is again reiterated in

the case of VIJAY KUMAR GHAI AND OTHERS v. STATE OF

WEST BENGAL AND OTHERS2 . Both these judgments of the Apex

Court deal with the issue of breach of the Joint Development

Agreement between the parties qua the criminal offences alleged

therein. The Apex Court clearly holds that the sharing pattern

between the parties in a Joint Development Development at best,

can give rise to a civil dispute and not trigger setting the criminal

law in motion. 14. The Apex Court in the case of DEEPAK GABA v. STATE

OF UTTAR PRADESH3 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 11. The private complaint filed by Respondent 2
 complainant had invoked Sections 405, 420, 471 and 120-
 B IPC . However, by the order dated 19-7-2018, summons
 were directed to be issued only under Section 406IPC, and
 not under Sections 420, 471 or 120-B IPC . We have quoted
 the operative and reasoning portion of the summoning order,
 that records in brief the assertions in the complaint, to hold
 that Respondent 2 complainant had shown that "a forged
 demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p had been raised by JIPL, which
 demand is not due in terms of the statements made by 2 2022 SCC OnLine SC 344 3 (2023) 3 SCC 423 29 Shubhankar P. Tomar and Sakshi Tilak Chand". The order
states that Respondent 2 complainant had filed photocopy of
"one" email as per Documents 1 to 34, but the narration and
the contents of the email is not adverted to and elucidated. .... .... .... 15. For Section 405IPC to be attracted, the following
have to be established: misappropriated or converted to their own use
 that property, or dishonestly used or disposed of
 that property or wilfully suffer any other person
 to do so; and (c) such misappropriation, conversion, use
 or disposal should be in violation of any direction
 of law prescribing the mode in which such trust
 is to be discharged, or of any legal contract
 which the person has made, touching the
 discharge of such trust. 16. Thus, criminal breach of trust would, inter alia,
mean using or disposing of the property by a person who is
entrusted with or otherwise has dominion. Such an act must
not only be done dishonestly, but also in violation of any
direction of law or any contract express or implied relating to
carrying out the trust. [ Sudhir Shantilal Mehta v. CBI , (2009)
8 SCC 1 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 646] 17. However, in the instant case, materials on record
fail to satisfy the ingredients of Section 405IPC. The
complaint does not directly refer to the ingredients of Section
405IPC and does not state how and in what manner, on
facts, the requirements are satisfied. Pre-summoning
evidence is also lacking and suffers on this account. On these
aspects, the summoning order is equally quiet, albeit, it
states that "a forged demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p had been
raised by JIPL, which demand is not due in terms of 30 statements by Shubhankar P. Tomar and Sakshi Tilak
Chand". A mere wrong demand or claim would not meet the
conditions specified by Section 405IPC in the absence of
evidence to establish entrustment, dishonest
misappropriation, conversion, use or disposal, which action
should be in violation of any direction of law, or legal
contract touching the discharge of trust. Hence, even if
Respondent 2 complainant is of the opinion that the
monetary demand or claim is incorrect and not payable,
given the failure to prove the requirements of Section
405IPC, an offence under the same section is not
constituted. In the absence of factual allegations which
satisfy the ingredients of the offence under Section 405IPC, a
mere dispute on monetary demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p, does
not attract criminal prosecution under Section 406IPC. 18. In order to apply Section 420IPC, namely,
cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property, the
ingredients of Section 415IPC have to be satisfied. To
constitute an offence of cheating under Section 415IPC, a
person should be induced, either fraudulently or dishonestly,
to deliver any property to any person, or consent that any
person shall retain any property. The second class of acts set
forth in the section is the intentional inducement of doing or
omitting to do anything which the person deceived would not
do or omit to do, if she were not so deceived. Thus, the sine
qua non of Section 415IPC is "fraudulence", "dishonesty", or
"intentional inducement", and the absence of these elements
would debase the offence of cheating. [ Iridium India Telecom
Ltd. v. Motorola Inc. , (2011) 1 SCC 74 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri)
1201] 19. Explaining the contours, this Court in Mohd.
Ibrahim v. State of Bihar [Mohd. Ibrahim v. State of Bihar,
(2009) 8 SCC 751 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 929. This Court, in
this case, has cautioned that the ratio should not be
misunderstood, to record the clarification, which in the
present case, in our opinion, is not of any avail and help to
Respondent 2 complainant. We respectfully concur with the
clarification as well as the ratio explaining Sections 415, 464,
etc. IPC .] , observed that for the offence of cheating, there
should not only be cheating, but as a consequence of such
cheating, the accused should also have dishonestly adduced 31 the person deceived to deliver any property to a person; or
to make, alter, or destroy, wholly or in part, a valuable
security, or anything signed or sealed and which is capable of
being converted into a valuable security. 20. In the present case, the ingredients to constitute
an offence under Section 420 read with Section 415IPC are
absent. The pre-summoning evidence does not disclose and
establish the essential ingredients of Section 415IPC. There
is no assertion, much less legal evidence, to submit that JIPL
had engaged in dishonesty, fraud, or intentional inducement
to deliver a property. It is not the case of Respondent 2
complainant that JIPL had tried to deceive them, either by
making a false or misleading representation, or by any other
action or omission; nor is it their case that JIPL had offered
any fraudulent or dishonest inducement to deliver a
property. As such, given that the ingredients of Section
415IPC are not satisfied, the offence under Section 420IPC is
not made out. 21. Section 471IPC ["471. Using as genuine a
forged document or electronic record.--Whoever
fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or
electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to
be a forged document or electronic record, shall be punished
in the same manner as if he had forged such document or
electronic record."] is also not attracted. This Section is
applicable when a person fraudulently or dishonestly uses as
genuine any document or electronic record, which he knows
or has reasons to believe to be a forged document or
electronic record. This Court in Mohd. Ibrahim [Mohd.
Ibrahim v. State of Bihar , (2009) 8 SCC 751: (2009) 3 SCC
(Cri) 929. This Court, in this case, has cautioned that the
ratio should not be misunderstood, to record the clarification,
which in the present case, in our opinion, is not of any avail
and help to Respondent 2 complainant. We respectfully
concur with the clarification as well as the ratio explaining
Sections 415, 464, etc. IPC .] , has elucidated that the
condition precedent of an offence under Section 471IPC is
forgery by making a false document or false electronic record
or part thereof. Further, to constitute the offence under
Section 471IPC, it has to be proven that the document was
"forged" in terms of Section 470 ["470. Forged 32 document.--A false document [or electronic record] made
wholly or in part by forgery is designated "a forged document
or electronic record"."] , and "false" in terms of Section
464IPC [ "464. Making a false document.--A person is
said to make a false document or false electronic record--
First.--Who dishonestly or fraudulently--(a) makes, signs,
seals or executes a document or part of a document;(b)
makes or transmits any electronic record or part of any
electronic record;(c) affixes any electronic signature on any
electronic record;(d) makes any mark denoting the execution
of a document or the authenticity of the electronic
signature,with the intention of causing it to be believed that
such document or part of a document, electronic record
or *[electronic signature] was made, signed, sealed,
executed, transmitted or affixed by or by the authority of a
person by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was
not made, signed, sealed, executed or affixed; or*
Substituted for "digital signature" by Act 10 of 2009, Section
51(e) (w.e.f. 27-10-2009)Secondly.--Who without lawful
authority, dishonestly or fraudulently, by cancellation or
otherwise, alters a document or an electronic record in any
material part thereof, after it has been made, executed or
affixed with electronic signature either by himself or by any
other person, whether such person be living or dead at the
time of such alteration; orThirdly.--Who dishonestly or
fraudulently causes any person to sign, seal, execute or alter
a document or an electronic record or to affix his electronic
signature on any electronic record knowing that such person
by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication cannot, or
that by reason of deception practised upon him, he does not
know the contents of the document or electronic record or
the nature of the alteration."] . 22. Section 470 lays down that a document is "forged"
if there is: Section 470 defines a "forged document" as a false
document made by forgery. 23. As per Section 464IPC, a person is said to have
made a "false document": 24. Unless the document is false and forged in terms
of Sections 464 and 470IPC respectively, the requirement of
Section 471IPC would not be met. 25. In the counter-affidavit filed by Respondent 2
complainant, it is submitted that a few bills were
faked/forged, as the goods were not ordered. Reference is
made to balance of Rs 79,752 shown on 30-3-2013, which
was objected to and thereupon as per the complaint itself the
demand/bill was withdrawn. This would not make the bill a
forged document or false document, in terms of Sections 470
and 464IPC. The complaint was made in the year 2017, four
years after the bill/claim had been withdrawn, reflecting no
criminal intent. The bill was not fake or forged, and at best it
could be stated that it was wrongly raised. Moreover, the
pre-summoning evidence is silent with regard to this bill and
mens rea on the part of the accused is not shown and
established. Same would be the position with regard to the
bill/invoice of Rs 53,215 which was as per the complaint,
sent directly to Manav Rachna International at Faridabad.
The bill/invoice is not doubted as "forged" or "false" within
the meaning of Sections 470 and 464IPC. No doubt, Adhunik
Colour Solutions is mentioned as the buyer, and Manav
Rachna International as the consignee, albeit the invoice was
issued by JIPL. Pre-summoning evidence does not help and
make out a case predicated on this bill/invoice. In the
counter-affidavit filed before us, it is alleged that since this
bill was sent to Faridabad, JIPL had added the GST in the
invoice. It is argued that had Respondent 2 complainant
supplied the goods, instead of GST, VAT as applicable in
Delhi would have been levied, as Respondent 2 complainant 34 was based in Delhi. This argument is rather fanciful and does
not impress us to justify summoning for the offence under
Section 471IPC. Besides, the assertion is not to be found in
the complaint, and cannot be predicated on the pre-
summoning evidence. 26. For completeness, we must record that the
appellants have placed on record the dealership agreement
dated 11-4-2012, which, inter alia states that JIPL has a
discretion to establish direct contractual relationship with
specific customers, if JIPL feels they can be served better.
Further, in such a situation, the dealer, if JIPL agrees, can
act as an intermediary. Assuming the bill/invoice had
wrongly recorded Respondent 2 complainant as the buyer, it
is not doubted that Manav Rachna International was the
consignee. At best, Respondent 2 complainant would not be
liable, had Manav Rachna International failed to pay. Non-
payment is also not alleged in the complaint or the pre-
summoning evidence. Reliance on objections vide emails
dated 4-7-2014 and 21-7-2014 are of no avail, as they are
for the period prior to 31-7-2014, when the bill/invoice was
raised. 27. It is evident from the pre-summoning evidence led
and the assertions made in the criminal complaint that the
dispute raised by Respondent 2 complainant primarily
pertains to settlement of accounts. The allegations are: These assertions, even if assumed to be correct, would
not fulfil the requirements of Section 405IPC, or for that
matter Sections 420 or 471. The material on record does not
reflect and indicate that JIPL indeed had the
dishonest/culpable intention for the commission of the
alleged offences under the IPC . Unless the ingredients of 35 aforesaid Sections of the IPC are fulfilled, the offence under
Section 120-BIPC, for criminal conspiracy, would not be
made. In fact, a combined reading of the complaint and the
pre-summoning evidence does not disclose any element of
criminal conspiracy as per Section 120-AIPC. The complaint
discloses a civil dispute and grievance relating to the claim
made by JIPL. What is challenged by Respondent 2
complainant is the demand of Rs 6,37,252.16p raised by JIPL
as the amount payable till the year ending 2016. This
assertion made by JIPL is questioned as incorrect. The
demand, even if assumed to be wrong, would not satisfy the
ingredients of Section 405, or Sections 420 or 471 IPC , so as
to justify the summoning order. As noted above, JIPL had
filed a criminal case under Section 138 of the NI Act as two
cheques for Rs 1,93,776 and Rs 4,99,610 issued by them, on
presentation, were dishonoured on account of "insufficient
funds". 28. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the
assertions made in the complaint and the pre-summoning
evidence led by Respondent 2 complainant fail to establish
the conditions and incidence of the penal liability set out
under Sections 405, 420 and 471IPC, as the allegations
pertain to alleged breach of contractual obligations.
Pertinently, this Court, in a number of cases, has noticed
attempts made by parties to invoke jurisdiction of criminal
courts, by filing vexatious criminal complaints by
camouflaging allegations which were ex facie outrageous or
pure civil claims. These attempts are not to be entertained
and should be dismissed at the threshold. To avoid prolixity,
we would only like to refer to the judgment of this Court
in Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny [Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny,
(2011) 13 SCC 412 : (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 650] , as it refers to
earlier case laws in copious detail. 29. In Thermax [Thermax Ltd. v. K.M. Johny , (2011)
13 SCC 412: (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 650] , it was pointed out 36 that the court should be watchful of the difference between
 civil and criminal wrongs, though there can be situations
 where the allegations may constitute both civil and criminal
 wrongs. The court must cautiously examine the facts to
 ascertain whether they only constitute a civil wrong, as the
 ingredients of criminal wrong are missing. A conscious
 application of the said aspects is required by the Magistrate,
 as a summoning order has grave consequences of setting
 criminal proceedings in motion." (Emphasis supplied)

The Apex Court, in the subsequent judgment of USHA

CHAKRABORTY v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL4 , while considering

the entire spectrum of law on civil cases being dressed with a colour

of crime, has held as follows: ".... .... .... 5. Before adverting to the rival contentions with
 reference to application under Section 156(3), Cr. P.C. within
 the parameters, we think it only appropriate to refer to the
 following decisions of this Court in respect to the scope of
 exercise of power under Section 482, Cr. P.C. 6. In Paramjeet Batra v. State of Uttarakhand1 , this
 Court held:-- 7. In Vesa Holdings Private Limited v. State of Kerala2 ,
it was held that:-- 8. In Kapil Aggarwal v. Sanjay Sharma3 , this Court
held that Section 482 is designed to achieve the purpose of
ensuring that criminal proceedings are not permitted to
generate into weapons of harassment. .... .... .... 12. The basic requirements/ingredients to bring home
the accusations under the alleged offences are hereunder:-- Offence of criminal breach of trust punishable
under Section 406 , IPC. (i) Entrustment of the property or any dominion
 over property with accusation; (ii) The person
 entrusted dishonestly misappropriating or
 converting to his own use that property; or
 dishonestly using or disposing that property in
 violation of any direction of law prescribing the
 mode in which such trust is to be discharged or
 of any legal contract, express or implied, which
 he has made touching the discharge of such
 trust or willfully causing sufferance to any other
 person so to do. Offence punishable under Section 423 , IPC. The essential ingredients to constitute an
offence under Section 423 , IPC is that the sale
deed or deed subjecting an immovable property
to a charge was contained a false statement
relating to the consideration or relating to the
persons or whose use or benefit, it was intended
to operate. Thus, it is evident that Section 423 , IPC deals with twin specific frauds
in the matter of execution of deeds or
instruments of transfer or charge, idest, (i) false
recital as to consideration or false recital as to
the name of beneficiary. Offence punishable under Section 467 , IPC. Virtually, the offence under Section 467 is
an aggravated form of the offence under Section 466 , IPC. The essential ingredients to
constitute the offence punishable under this
Section are (i) commission of forgery; (ii) that
such commission of forgery must be in relation
to a document purporting to be (a) a valuable
property; or (b) a will; or (c) an authority to
adopt a son; or (d) which purports to give
authority to any person to make or transfer any
valuable security; or (e) the receive the
principle, interest or dividends thereon; or (f) to
receive or deliver any money, movable property
or valuable security, or any document purporting
to be an acquittance or receipt acknowledging
the payment of money, or (g) an acquittance or
receipt for the delivery of any movable property
or valuable security. Offence punishable under Section 468 , IPC. (i) Commission of forgery, (ii) that he did so
 intending that the document or electronic record
 forged shall be used for the purpose of
 cheating. Offence punishable under Section 420 , IPC. To constitute the said offence there must be
deception i.e., the accused must have deceived
someone; that by such deception the accused must
induce a person (i) to deliver any property; or (ii) to
make, alter, destroy a whole or part of the valuable
security or anything which is signed or sealed and
which is capable of being converted into a valuable
property; or (iii) that the accused must have done so
dishonestly. The offence punishable under Section
120B , IPC, to constitute criminal conspiracy, there
must be agreement between two or more persons.
The agreement should be to do or cause to be done
some illegal act, or some act which is not illegal, by
illegal means, provided that where the agreement is
other than one to commit an offence, the prosecution 40 must further prove; or (iv) that some act besides the
 agreement was done by or more of the parties in
 pursuance of it. 13. Now, the question is whether the allegations in
the aforesaid application are sufficient to constitute the
alleged offences. 14. We have already extracted the said
application filed by the respondent against the
appellants in its entirety. At the outset, it is to be
noted that in the affidavit accompanying the
application, the respondent has stated thus : - "I have
not placed this incident before any Court heretofore".
In the application, obviously, it is stated that he is one
of the trustees of Bagla Sundari Memorial Trust at
Basunagar Madhyagram and under the said trust there
is a high school by name of Rose Bank Educare and he
is the Secretary of the said school. The recital in
paragraph 2 of the application filed by the respondent
would reveal his case that the accused persons kept
him in dark and without giving any information by
strengthening the said trust deed illegally got the
same registered on 12.07.2016 and removed him from
the said post. It is in this context that the aforesaid
statement in the aforesaid affidavit assumes
relevance. It is the case of the appellants that in
regard to his removal from the post of Secretary of the
school, the respondent had instituted title suit No. 363
of 2015, praying therein for a declaration that he is the
Secretary of the school and the said suit is still
pending. Despite the institution of the said suit and its
pendency before the First Court of Civil Judge, Junior
Division, Barasat the respondent made such a
statement in the affidavit. That apart, what is stated in
the application is that he is the Secretary of the
school, run by the trust. 15. The materials on record pertaining to the
said pleadings instituted in the Civil Suit, produced in
this proceeding would reveal that the respondent was
in fact ousted from the membership of the trust. In the
counter affidavit filed in this proceeding, the 41 respondent has virtually admitted the pendency of the
suit filed against his removal from the post of
Secretary and the trusteeship and its pendency. The
factum of passing of adverse orders in the
interlocutory applications in the said Civil Suit as also
the prima facie finding and conclusion arrived at by
the Civil Court that the respondent stands removed
from the post of Secretary and also from the
trusteeship are also not disputed therein. Then, the
question is why would the respondent conceal those
relevant aspects? The indisputable and undisputed
facts (admitted in the counter-affidavit by the
respondent) would reveal the existence of the civil
dispute on removal of the respondent from the post of
Secretary of the school as also from the trusteeship.
Obviously, it can only be taken that since the removal
from the office of the Secretary and the trusteeship
was the causative incident, he concealed the pendency
of the civil suit to cover up the civil nature of the
dispute. 16. By non-disclosure the respondent has, in troth,
concealed the existence of a pending civil suit between him
and the appellants herein before a competent civil court
which obviously is the causative incident for the respondent's
allegation of perpetration of the aforesaid offences against
the appellants. We will deal with it further and also its impact
a little later. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the
position that in order to cause registration of an F.I.R. and
consequential investigation based on the same the petition
filed under Section 156(3) , Cr.P.C., must satisfy the
essential ingredients to attract the alleged offences. In other
words, if such allegations in the petition are vague and are
not specific with respect to the alleged offences it cannot
lead to an order for registration of an F.I.R. and investigation
on the accusation of commission of the offences alleged. As
noticed hereinbefore, the respondent alleged commission of
offences under Sections 323 , 384 , 406 , 423 , 467 , 468 , 420 and 120B , IPC against the appellants. A bare perusal of
the said allegation and the ingredients to attract them, as
adverted to hereinbefore would reveal that the allegations
are vague and they did not carry the essential ingredients to
constitute the alleged offences. There is absolutely no 42 allegation in the complaint that the appellants herein had
caused hurt on the respondent so also, they did not reveal a
case that the appellants had intentionally put the respondent
in fear of injury either to himself or another or by putting
him under such fear or injury, dishonestly induced him to
deliver any property or valuable security. The same is the
position with respect to the alleged offences punishable
under Sections 406, 423, 467, 468, 420 and 120 B, IPC .
The ingredients to attract the alleged offence referred to
hereinbefore and the nature of the allegations contained in
the application filed by the respondent would undoubtedly
make it clear that the respondent had failed to make specific
allegation against the appellants herein in respect of the
aforesaid offences. The factual position thus would reveal
that the genesis as also the purpose of criminal proceedings
are nothing but the aforesaid incident and further that the
dispute involved is essentially of civil nature. The appellants
and the respondents have given a cloak of criminal offence in
the issue. In such circumstance when the respondent had
already resorted to the available civil remedy and it is
pending, going by the decision in Paramjit Batra (supra), the
High Court would have quashed the criminal proceedings to
prevent the abuse of the process of the Court but for the
concealment. 17. In the aforesaid circumstances, coupled with
the fact that in respect of the issue involved, which is
of civil nature, the respondent had already approached
the jurisdictional civil court by instituting a civil suit
and it is pending, there can be no doubt with respect
to the fact that the attempt on the part of the
respondent is to use the criminal proceedings as
weapon of harassment against the appellants. The
indisputable facts that the respondent has filed the
pending title suit in the year 2015, he got no case that
he obtained an interim relief against his removal from
the office of Secretary of the School Managing
Committee as also the trusteeship, that he filed the
stated application for an order for investigation only in
April, 2017 together with absence of a case that
despite such removal he got a right to get informed of
the affairs of the school and also the trust, would only
support the said conclusion. For all these reasons, we 43 are of the considered view that this case invites
 invocation of the power under Section 482 Cr. P.C. to
 quash the FIR registered based on the direction of the
 Magistrate Court in the afore-stated application and all
 further proceeding in pursuance thereof. Also, we have
 no hesitation to hold that permitting continuance of
 the criminal proceedings against the appellants in the
 aforesaid circumstances would result in abuse of the
 process of Court and also in miscarriage of justice." (Emphasis supplied)

On a coalesce of the judgments rendered by the Apex Court supra

what would unmistakably emerge is, that crime should not be

permitted to be continued, as it arises out of the breach of a Joint

Development Agreement. The facts in MITESH KUMAR J SHA and

VIJAY KUMAR GHAI were similar to the one in the case at hand. The judgments in the case of DEEPAK GABA and USHA

CHAKRABORTY have obliterated the crimes registered on

transactions which are purely civil in nature or arising out of a

breach of a contract. 15. Following the law laid down in all the aforesaid cases, the

Apex Court in the case of NARESH KUMAR v. STATE OF

KARNATAKA5 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 5. Under these circumstances, we are of the
 considered view that this is a case where the inherent
 powers should have been exercised by the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code as the powers
 are there to stop the abuse of the process and to secure the
 ends of justice. 6. In the case of Paramjeet Batra v. State of
 Uttarakhand , (2013) 11 SCC 673, this Court recognized that
 although the inherent powers of a High Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be
 exercised sparingly, yet the High Court must not hesitate in
 quashing such criminal proceedings which are essentially of a
 civil nature. This is what was held: (emphasis supplied) 5 2024 SCC OnLine SC 268 45 7. Relying upon the decision in Paramjeet
Batra (supra), this Court in Randheer Singh v. State of
U.P. , (2021) 14 SCC 626, observed that criminal proceedings
cannot be taken recourse to as a weapon of harassment. In Usha Chakraborty v. State of West Bengal , 2023 SCC
OnLine SC 90, relying upon Paramjeet Batra (supra) it was
again held that where a dispute which is essentially of a civil
nature, is given a cloak of a criminal offence, then such
disputes can be quashed, by exercising the inherent powers
under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 8. Essentially, the present dispute between the
parties relates to a breach of contract. A mere breach
of contract, by one of the parties, would not attract
prosecution for criminal offence in every case, as held
by this Court in Sarabjit Kaur v. State of
Punjab , (2023) 5 SCC 360. Similarly, dealing with the
distinction between the offence of cheating and a mere
breach of contractual obligations, this Court, in Vesa
Holdings (P) Ltd. v. State of Kerala , (2015) 8 SCC 293,
has held that every breach of contract would not give
rise to the offence of cheating, and it is required to be
shown that the accused had fraudulent or dishonest
intention at the time of making the promise. 9. In the case at hand, the dispute between the
parties was not only essentially of a civil nature but in
this case the dispute itself stood settled later as we
have already discussed above. We see no criminal
element here and consequently the case here is
nothing but an abuse of the process. We therefore
allow the appeal and set aside the order of the High
Court dated 02.12.2020. The criminal proceedings
arising out of FIR No. 113 of 2017 will hereby stand
quashed." (Emphasis supplied) 46 16. In the light of the judgments rendered by the Apex Court

and the facts being unequivocal, permitting further proceedings

would result in miscarriage of justice and becomes an abuse of the

process of the law qua crime Nos.13 and 14 of 2022. 17. Crime No.49 of 2021 is also called in question wherein the

petitioner is accused No.3 and the allegation against the petitioner

is Section 12 of the Act. Section 12 of the Act reads as follows: Section 12 mandates that whoever abets an offence under the Act,

becomes open to punishment under Section 12 of the Act. Since

the investigation against the officers are pending and the petitioner

is alleged of Section 12 of the Act, obliterating Crime No.49 of

2021, at this juncture, would not arise. Petitioner is at liberty to

seek discharge before the competent Court in the event charge

sheet is filed against the officers and the petitioner. 18. For all the aforesaid reasons, the following: Consequently, pending applications if any, also stand

disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ