1. The above cases have been posted to today for completion of pleadings,

 objections (if any) to the report and also for consideration of further report. 2. The O.A. No.131/2020 (SZ) was filed by a private individual alleging that

 environment damage being caused on account of the activity of the 9th

 respondent, which ultimately affects the rivers Palaar and Ponnaiyaar. The O.A. No.186 of 2020 (SZ) was Suo Motu registered by this Tribunal on

 the basis of the newspaper report published in The New Sunday Express

 Edition dated 20.09.2020 under the caption "Ranipet residents health at

 risk due to pollution; Chromium waste killing agriculture in Ranipet,

 poses long term health risks". After considering the allegations made in

 the newspaper report, this Tribunal had appointed a Joint Committee to

 go into the question and directed them to submit a report. 3. When the matter came up for hearing today through Video Conference,

 Mr. S. Sai Sathya Jith represented the applicant in O.A. No.131/2020. Mr.

 Meyyappan represented Mrs. Me. Saraswathy for 1st respondent in O.A.

 No.131/2020, Dr. D. Shanmuganathan represented respondents 2 to 4 & 7

 in O.A. No.131/2020 and respondents 3 to 7, 9 & 10 in O.A. No.186/2020,

 Mr. R. Thirunavukarasu represented 2nd respondent in O.A. No.186/2020

 and Mr. Sathish Parasaran along with M/s. Tanushree represented 8th

 respondent in O.A. No.131/2020 and there is no representation for the

 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, as the service of the counsel

 appearing for the Board has been terminated and no new counsel has been

 appointed by the Board so far. 4. It is high time for the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to appoint their

 standing counsel or otherwise, the serious issue regarding pollution where

 the assistance of the Pollution Control Board is required will not be

 available for this Tribunal. They should not delay the appointment of

 standing counsel for the Pollution Control Board or they will have to make

 an alternate arrangement for the representation before this Tribunal in

 cases where the Pollution Control Board is made a party. 5. The Joint Committee has filed a compliance report of the

 recommendations by the 8th respondent in O.A. No.131 of 2020 dated

 16.04.2021, e-filed on the same day and received on 28.05.2021 which reads

 as follows:- The Joint Committee submitted its report dated 11.02.2021 to the
NGT. Upon hearing the Joint Committee report, the NGT vide order
dated 15-3-2021 observed that

 "4. It is seen from the report that there is another case pending
 before this Tribunal in O.A. No. 186 of 2020 which is dealing with
 the larger issue of Chromium deposit in this area and the remedial
 measures to be taken for that purpose and some of the committee
 members are members in the other case also and they have
 submitted that some report has been filed in that case". "5. Under such circumstances, we feel that it is better that both
 these cases can go together, so that conflicting orders can be
 avoided. In the meantime the parties are also directed to complete
 their pleadings and objections to the joint committee report, so that
 all these issues can be taken together". "6. In the meantime the committee is also directed to ascertain as
 to whether the recommendations made by them, as regards the 8th
 respondent company has been complied with by them and what is
 the present status of compliance including the directions issued by
 the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) when they issued
 notice under Section 33A Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
 Act, 1974 and under Section 31A of Air (Prevention and Control of
 pollution) Act, 1981 and submit independent reports to this Tribunal
 regarding the same". "7. Parties are directed to submit the respective pleadings and
 objections and the report as directed on or before 19.04.2021". 2. Joint Committee's inspection to review the compliance of the
Committee's recommendations and TNPCB's directions by 8th
Respondent company. In order to review the compliance status of the Committee's
recommendations and TNPCB's directions by 8th Respondent company
(TCL), the Committee conducted a meeting in the District Collector
Office at Ranipet and visited the industry unit on 12-4-2021. Based on
the site inspection and information provided by the industry unit, the
compliance status of the industry is given in Table-1 & 2 below: discharge consistently till the
 commencement & effective The industry informed that
 functioning of newly constructed they have ordered a 150
 Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) KLD conventional MEE
 components. which will be a standby to
 As the unit is in the process of WHE. establishing ZLD system and
 started trial runs for validation of The industry claimed that
 the equipment to achieve Zero liquid at current running
 discharge with respect to treating capacity, the newly
 effluents, the unit shall be allowed installed ETP components
 to operate in full load only after with the old ETP are
 ensuring the complete/full-fledged capable of achieving Zero 3 operation of upgraded ETP by liquid discharge with
 TNPCB. The full-fledged operation respect to consent
 of ZLD system should be quantities. commenced within four months- Table 2. Directions of the TNPCB pertaining to 8th Respondent
company and their compliance status

S.N Directions issued by Compliance status
. TNPCB
 TNPCB's directions issued on 09-12-2020
1 The unit shall construct and Being complied. commence the new ZLD
 components for effective During the Joint Committee's
 functioning so as to achieve inspection held on 12-4-2021 it
 Zero liquid discharge was observed that the industry has
 not commenced the full-fledged
 operation of ZLD system. However,
 the following progress has been
 noted. Organic effluent: During inspection the industry has
 recovered and stored salts of 2.9
 Tonnes within the unit premises. As per the TNPCB direction issued
 on 09-12-2020, the industry has to
 restrict the production capacity to
 50%. In response to this, the
 industry has restricted the effluent
 quantity to below 50 % by scaling
 down high effluent generation
 plants and production
 adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of
 the TNPCB. The company 6 produces almost 100% of
 consented quantity of Pthalic
 Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB
 regarding amendment in the
 orders as 50% reduction in effluent
 generation has not been accepted
 by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water
 which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant,
 and untreated/partially treated
 effluent had been stored in Raw
 water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million
 Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage
 tank inside the industry premises
 should be treated and disposed off
 immediately. The industry's existing ETP
 capacity is 560 KLD. Data for the
 month of March 2021 from Water
 Quality Watch Center (WQWC)
 shows 179.47 KLD on 26.03.2021. Now the unit has restricted the
 effluent generation to 50% of
 consented quantity. 3 The operation of the unit Agreed to comply.
 shall not attract any public
 complaints. General complaint petitions were
 received often (during the year
 2019 and 2020) from nearby
 Public through District
 Administration against the
 discharge of trade effluent from
 ETP into nearby water sources. The industry has been advised to
 comply with all environmental
 norms stipulated under 7 Environment Protection Act / Air
 Act / Water Act . 4 The unit shall comply with Complied. recommendations of the
 Hydro-geological study Complied with recommendations
 report. of the report of Dr Ganapathy of
 VIT. As suggested, a sub-surface
 storm water drain was construed
 in the western side of M/s. TCL
 and was in operation. Photographs
 are shown in Annexure. 5 The unit shall provide Being Complied
 garland drains around the
 unit premises to ensure that The industry has constructed the
 there is no seepage of water sub-surface storm water drain
 from outside premises into outside the industry premises on
 the unit and vice-Versa. western side in between M/s.Tamil
 Nadu Chromates Chemicals Ltd
 dump side and M/s.Thirumalai
 Chemiclas Ltd. In northern side,
 the industry has assured to
 construct a retainer wall to ensure
 that there is no seepage of water
 from outside premises into the unit
 and vice-Versa. The length of
 retainer wall is 500 metres and
 with a depth ranging from 1.5
 metres to 5.0 metres. The width of
 the retainer wall is 250 mm. The
 Joint Committee, while inspecting
 the retainer wall construction,
 suggested to increase the wall
 height to 2-3 feet to prevent excess
 water to flow inside the industry. Photographs of retainer wall
 construction are shown in
 Annexure
6 The unit shall provide Complied. suitable no. of Peizometric
 wells at the upstream and Eight nos. of Peizometric wells
 downstream side of the unit have been provided. 4 nos at the 8 premises, so as to assess the upstream and 4 nos., at the
 ground water quality. downstream. 7 The unit shall provide proper Complied.
 rain water harvesting system
 in the unit premises to tap The unit has made arrangement to
 the rain water, treat and collect the rain water from 1.85
 reuse for beneficial purpose,lakh sq. ft. of roof area in the Six
 so as to avoid the rain waterzones of the unit premises and
 runoff outside the premises same was reused as raw water for
 of the unit. process. Photos of roof water collection
 system are shown in Annexure
8 The unit shall revamp the Complied. storm water drain within the
 unit premises after detailed The unit has revamped the existing
 study on the carrying storm water drains and provided
 capacity with respect to subsurface collection tank of
 surface runoff. holding capacity 300,000 Liters at
 final runoff point at the South
 western side and there is a
 rainwater outlet point in the
 eastern side near Ponnai Road. Pumps were installed to take back
 the collected rain water. Photos of revamped storm water
 drains are shown in Annexure. 9 The unit has to replace the Being Complied.
 existing anaerobic contact
 filter with suitable advanced The industry claimed that through
 anaerobic treatment system some study conducted for
 so as to improve the quality anaerobic system improvement, it
 of influent into aerobic was found that effluent is highly
 treatment system. biodegradable and the
 biodegradability is 85%. Further, it
 was reported that Anaerobic Filter
 Compartment was replenished and
 revived by the addition of Bio
 cultures supplemented with
 suitable doses of nutrients and
 jaggery (food for culture during
 inoculation). The industry claimed that the
 continuous addition of cultures 9 and improvements like recycling of
 sludge back to the system, the
 present efficiency of the Anaerobic
 Filter Compartment has been
 increased to 65-70% which is the
 normal COD removal capacity of
 any Anaerobic Filter or Anaerobic
 digesters. In addition to above,
 additions of cultures and nutrients
 were done in the aeration systems
 like SAFF (Submerged Aerated
 Fixed Film Reactor) a Secondary
 Aeration System followed by RAs
 (Return of the Activated Sludge)
 which has also increased the
 efficiency of the aeration system. 10 The unit shall comply with Compliance status on Water Act ,
 conditions mentioned in the HWA and Air Act are given below: analyse the treated sewage
 through Board's lab and The treated sewage samples
 furnish ROA of the same. collected from the STP by the TNPC
 Board. The ROA of the treated
 sewage reveals that the parameters
 mostly satisfy the standards
 prescribed by the Board. 3.The unit shall operate and Partially Complied.
 maintain the ETP along with
 RO plant and MEE efficiently As per the TNPCB direction issued
 and continuously and ensure on 09-12-2020, the industry has to 10 that the RO permeate and restrict the production capacity to
Multiple Effect Evaporator 50%. In response to this, the
(MEE) condensate shall be industry has restricted the effluent
recycling for process after quantity to below 50 % by scaling
satisfying the standards down high effluent generation
prescribed by the Board. plants and production
 adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of
 the TNPCB. The company
 produces almost 100% of
 consented quantity of Pthalic
 Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB
 regarding amendment in the
 orders as 50% reduction in effluent
 generation has not been accepted
 by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water
 which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant,
 and untreated/partially treated
 effluent had been stored in Raw
 water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million
 Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage
 tank inside the industry premises
 should be treated and disposed off
 immediately

 All the components of ETP, RO,
 MEE and ATFD are under
 operations. 4. The unit shall ensure that Partially Complied
RO reject shall be sent to
MEE for further treatment. RO reject is sent to MEE followed
 by ATFD to recover salt. No bye- pass of effluent from the treatment
 system noticed. During inspection
 the industry has recovered and
 stored salts of 2.9 Tonnes within
 the unit premises. As per the TNPCB direction issued
 on 09-12-2020, the industry has to
 restrict the production capacity to
 50%. In response to this, the
 industry has restricted the effluent
 quantity to below 50 % by scaling
 down high effluent generation
 plants and production
 adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of
 the TNPCB. The company
 produces almost 100% of
 consented quantity of Pthalic
 Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB
 regarding amendment in the
 orders as 50% reduction in effluent
 generation has not been accepted
 by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water
 which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant,
 and untreated/partially treated
 effluent had been stored in Raw
 water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million
 Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage
 tank inside the industry premises
 should be treated and disposed off
 immediately. 5.The unit shall achieve zero Partially Complied
discharge at all times and
shall not discharge any As per the TNPCB direction issued
treated/untreated effluent on 09-12-2020, the industry has to
outside the premises of the restrict the production capacity to
unit. 50%. In response to this, the
 industry has restricted the effluent
 quantity to below 50 % by scaling
 down high effluent generation
 plants and production
 adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of 12 the TNPCB. The company
 produces almost 100% of
 consented quantity of Pthalic
 Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB
 regarding amendment in the
 orders as 50% reduction in effluent
 generation has not been accepted
 by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water
 which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant,
 and untreated/partially treated
 effluent had been stored in Raw
 water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million
 Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage
 tank inside the industry premises
 should be treated and disposed off
 immediately. All the components of
 ETP,RO,MEE and ATFD are under
 operations. No bye-pass of effluent
 from the treatment system noticed. 6.The unit shall regularly Complied. analyse the treated trade
effluent through Board's lab Samples collected and analyzed
and furnish RoA of the same. through the TNPC Board. 7.The unit shall ensure the Complied. connectivity of EMFM
provided at the inlet and out EMFMs connected to TNPCB &
let of ETP, MEE inlet, MEE CPC B portals. distillate, MEE concentrate,
MEE centrifuged mother
liquor and MEE steam inlet
with Care Air Centre of
TNPCB / CPC B portals and
provide proper data at all
times. 8.The unit shall operate and Complied. and maintain the log book for all the sources connected to
the same. Effluent and also maintained the
 log book for the same. 10.The unit shall operate and Complied. maintain the ATFD for
concentrating the mother ATFD is under operation
liquor generated from the
crystallizer efficiently and
continuously. 11.The unit shall collect the Complied. ground water from
Piezometric wells provided Eight nos. of Peizometric wells
around the ETP and Vermi have been provided. 4 nos at the
composting unit and analyse upstream and 4 nos., at the
the same so as to ascertain downstream. The industry claimed
the ground water quality and that they furnish the report to the
furnish report to Board. Board on the ground water quality
 from Piezometric wells. 12.The Hazardous waste Complied. generated shall be properly
disposed as per the The industry has been generally
Authorization obtained complied the conditions stipulated
under Hazardous waste in the HW Authorization
(MH&TM) Rules, 2008 and
shall comply with the 1. The industry has stored the
provisions of Hazardous and hazardous waste in an
Other Wastes (Management impervious yard covered with
and Transboundary roof shed in an area
Movement) Rules, 2016. earmarked place within the
 premises. 2. The industry has marked
 each container holding the 14 hazardous wastes with
 marking "Hazardous Wastes" 3. The storage area has fenced
 and a sign of danger should
 be placed at the storage site. 4. The containers holding the
 hazardous wastes kept in
 good condition. 5. The industry has installed
 hazardous waste display
 board at the entrance of the
 factory and updated the
 same regularly. 6. The industry is maintaining
 the Form-3 and submitted
 Form-IV 13.The unit shall ensure that Complied
the non- Hazardous solid
waste is disposed No Accumulation of solid waste
scientifically for further found within the premises.
beneficial purposes without
any accumulation. 14. The unit shall comply with the conditions imposed in
Hazardous and other Wastes (Management Handling & Trans
Boundary Movement) Rules, 2016. Compliance of Conditions stipulated in the latest HWA
issued dated 11.02.2020
(1) The unit shall dispose the Complied. Used/Spent Oil to the units
having valid authorization of The industry is disposing the
the Board and registration Used/Spent Oil to the units having
certificate as recyclers and valid authorization of the Board
necessary endorsement shall and registration certificate as
be made in respect of the recyclers. quantity transacted in the
original letter of registration
issued to the recycling unit
lifting used oil. (2) The unit shall dispose Complied. hazardous waste category
(1.2) Tarry residues and still
bottoms from distillation to
M/s. Gujarat Enviro
Protection and Infrastructure
Limited, Ranipet as reported. (3) The unit shall dispose Complied. hazardous waste categories
5.2 (Wastes or residues
containing oil), (35.3)
Chemical sludge from waste
water treatment and (B2)
Total Petroleum
Hydrocarbons (TPH) (C5-
C36) equal to (or) more than
5000 mg/kg to M/s. TNWML,
Gummidipoondi as reported. (4) The unit shall dispose Complied. hazardous waste category
(5.1) used/spent oil to the The industry is disposing the
authorized recyclers as
 Used/Spent Oil to the units
reported. having valid authorization of the
 Board and registration certificate
 as recyclers. (5) The hazardous wastes Complied. shall be stored in a closed
designated area, without The industry has stored the
exposure to rain, sunlight hazardous waste in an impervious
etc. yard covered with roof shed in a
 area earmarked place within the
 premises. compatible container on an 1. The unit has marked each
impervious platform in container holding the
closed shed which shall be hazardous wastes with
provided with requisite fire marking "Hazardous Wastes" shall comply with all the
conditions stipulated in the
authorization and other
conditions of the Hazardous
and Other Wastes
(Management and
Transboundary Movement)
Rules, 2016. (12) The unit shall maintain Complied. Form 3 and submit Form 4
prescribed under the The industry is maintaining the
Hazardous and Other Wastes Form-3 at the site and submitted
(Management and form-IV to TNPCB
Transboundary Movement)
Rules, 2016. (13) The Hazardous wastes Complied. shall be disposed only with
manifest that shall be The industry has followed
maintained in Form-10 of the manifest system to transport the
Hazardous and Other Wastes HOW and submitted Form 10
(Management and 17 Transboundary Movement)
Rules, 2016. such as plastic sheets used The industry has not used the
for food wrapping, spreading 'use and throwaway plastics' and
on dining table etc., plastic the same was displayed in the
plates, plastic coated tea employees assemble areas. MoEF Notification 2009 and Noise Level/ Stack Emission
submit the report to the through TNPC Board Lab yearly
Board without fail. twice. The unit has carried out
 survey through TNPCB lab, Vellore
 on Ambient Air Quality/ Noise
 Level/ Stack Emission on
 09.03.2021, report awaited. 3.The unit shall ensure the Complied. connectivity of online
monitoring system for the OCEMS for the parameters PM,
emission parameter PM, SOx, NOx & CO connected to
SOx, CO and NOx attached TNPCB and CPC B portals were
to Thermic Fluid Heaters and found in operation. with conditions mentioned in Action taken by the unit are
11 the renewal of consent order detailed below: In northern side, the industry has
 assured to construct a retainer
 wall to ensure that there is no
 seepage of water from outside
 premises into the unit and vice- Versa. The length of retainer wall is
 500 metres and with a depth
 ranging from 1.5 metres to 5.0
 metres. The width of the retainer
 wall is 250 mm. The Joint
 Committee, while inspecting the
 retainer wall construction,
 suggested to increase the wall
 height to 2-3 feet to prevent excess
 water to flow inside the industry. effluent at source itself based Organic effluent: existing anaerobic contact
filter with suitable advanced The industry claimed that through
anaerobic treatment system some study conducted for
so as to improve the quality anaerobic system improvement, it
of influent into aerobic was found that effluent is highly
treatment system. biodegradable and the
 biodegradability is 85%. Further, it
 was reported that Anaerobic Filter
 Compartment was replenished and
 revived by the addition of Bio
 cultures supplemented with
 suitable doses of nutrients and
 jaggery (food for culture during
 inoculation). The industry claimed that the
 continuous addition of cultures
 and improvements like recycling of
 sludge back to the system, the
 present efficiency of the Anaerobic
 Filter Compartment has been
 increased to 65-70% which is the
 normal COD removal capacity of
 any Anaerobic Filter or Anaerobic
 digesters. In addition to above,
 additions of cultures and nutrients
 were done in the aeration systems
 like SAFF (Submerged Aerated 24 Fixed Film Reactor) a Secondary
 Aeration System followed by RAs
 (Return of the Activated Sludge)
 which has also increased the
 efficiency of the aeration system. 8) The unit shall operate the Being complied. ETP continuously and
efficiently so as to achieve All the components of ETP, RO,
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) MEE and ATFD are under
system at all times. operations. No bye-pass of effluent
 from the treatment system noticed. During inspection the industry has
 recovered and stored salts of 2.9
 Tonnes within the unit premises. As per the TNPCB direction issued
 on 09-12-2020, the industry has to
 restrict the production capacity to
 50%. In response to this, the
 industry has restricted the effluent
 quantity to below 50 % by scaling
 down high effluent generation
 plants and production
 adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of
 the TNPCB. The company
 produces almost 100% of
 consented quantity of Pthalic
 Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB
 regarding amendment in the
 orders as 50% reduction in effluent
 generation has not been accepted
 by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water
 which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant,
 and untreated/partially treated
 effluent had been stored in Raw
 water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million
 Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage 25 tank inside the industry premises
 should be treated and disposed off
 immediately. The industry's existing ETP
 capacity is 560 KLD. Data for the
 month of March 2021 from Water
 Quality Watch Center (WQWC)
 shows 179.47 KLD on 26.03.2021. Now the unit has restricted the
 effluent generation to 50% of
 consented quantity. 9) The operation of the unit Agreed to comply.
shall not attract any public
complaints. General complaint petitions were
 received often (during the year
 2019 and 2020) from nearby
 Public through District
 Administration against the
 discharge of trade effluent from
 ETP into nearby water sources. The industry has been advised to
 comply with all environmental
 norms stipulated under Environment Protection Act / Air
 Act / Water Act . 10) The unit has to pay Complied. environmental compensation
of Rs.18.6 lakhs for the The industry has paid the
violations caused by the unit Environmental Compensation
within one month. amount of Rs.18.6 lakhs vide
 C.R.No.82750 dated 13.12.2019. 3. Conclusion
 As per the TNPCB direction issued on 09-12-2020, the industry has
 to restrict the production capacity to 50%. In response to this, the industry
 has restricted the effluent quantity to below 50 % by scaling down high
 effluent generation plants and production adjustments in other plants. This
 is misinterpretation of the orders of the TNPCB. The company produces
 almost 100% of consented quantity of Pthalic Anhydride chemical. The
 company's appeal to TBPCB regarding amendment in the orders as 50%
 reduction in effluent generation has not been accepted by TNPCB. 2.4 Million Litres of waste water which contains RO reject water,
 Regeneration water from DM plant, and untreated/partially treated effluent
 had been stored in Raw water tanks. It was suggested by the Joint
 Committee that around 2.4 Million Litres of waste water that has been
 stored for long time in the storage tank inside the industry premises should
 be treated and disposed off immediately. The industry has assured that full-fledged ZLD will be
 commissioned by 30th June 2021 and also once the upgraded ETP is
 commissioned, certification of its adequacy will be carried by IIT Madras by
 30th June 2021 under the supervision of TNPCB. By considering the above facts and observation of the Joint
 Committee, the Hon'ble Tribunal may pass appropriate Order (s)/Direction (s) as deemed fit." 6. It is mentioned in the conclusion portion of the report that full-fledged

 ZLD will be commissioned by 30th June, 2021 and once the upgraded ETP

 is commissioned, certification of its adequacy will be carried out by the IIT

 Madras by 30th June, 2021 under the supervision of Tamil Nadu Pollution

 Control Board. Without considering the efficacy, this Tribunal can't pass

 an order in respect of the same. 7. The 8th respondent has filed their objection to the joint committee report

 dated 01.06.2021, but it was not e-filed. The 8th respondent filed counter

 affidavit to the allegations made in the application which was also not e- filed. 8. When this was pointed out, the learned Senior counsel appearing for the

 8th respondent submitted that he will verify with the office and rectify the

 same. So, the 8th respondent is directed to take steps to rectify and e-file

 the same before the next hearing date. 9. In O.A. No.186 of 2020, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has filed

 a status report dated 18.03.2021, e-filed on 23.03.2021 and received on the

 same day which reads as follows:- 10. The Joint Committee has also filed a report signed by some of the

 members with date 15.04.2021, e-filed on 16.04.2021 and received on

 23.04.2021 which reads as follows:- Chromium waste killing agriculture in Ranipet, poses long-term health risks". In the matter of
OA no. 186 of 2020 constituted a committee and directed that; 10. The committee is directed to go into the question regarding the source of pollution and
the ground water quality in that area and what are all the remedial measures already taken
in view of the directions given by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens Case ( Welfare
Forum Vs Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) disposal of hazardous substance
generated by the industries and its violation the nature of violation taken by the regulating
authorities against the person who are committing such repeated violations, action plan that
has been prepared and its stage of implementation and its result and whether any alternate
provision has been made for providing clean potable water to the locality of the people, if it
is infected Chromium and Lead and submit a report including assessment of environmental
 Page No: 2

compensation for the damage caused and the remedial measures to be taken to rectify the
same and restore the water bodies from pollution. 11. The committee is also directed to conduct the water analysis test of the nearby water
bodies and also ground water that is being supplied to the people in the locality. They can
also assess the hazard quotient of that area and prepare an action plan with longer and
shorter measures with lesser timelines, so as to remedy the situation. 12. They are also directed to inspect the individual industries in the industrial estate to
ascertain as to whether all environmental laws mechanism are being strictly adhere to by
them and if there is any violation found then, they are directed to take action against those
violators including issuing necessary direction for closure until remedial measures are taken
which will improve the situation apart from environmental compensation against those
violating industries. ' 13. The Central Pollution Control Board, Regional Office, Chennai will be the nodal agency
for co-ordination and for providing all necessary logistics for this purpose. 14. The committee is directed to submit the report to this Tribunal on or before
25.11.2020..." As per the scope of the direction given by Hon'ble Tribunal, Central Pollution Control Board
has already taken up the study for preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for
remediation of contaminated areas in the country under National Clean Energy Fund (NCEF)
project. The chromium contaminated area at Ranipet, Tamil Nadu has been identified as one
of the priority area requiring remediation. In this regard, a status report was filed by CPC B on
24th November 2020 and requested six-month time for carrying out inspection of the
industries located in the S IPC OT, Ranipet. Further, Hon'ble Tribunal in its order dt. 03.02.2021 stated and directed as follows; They wanted six months time for filing the status report. But three months have already
lapsed after appointing the committee, but not even an interim report has been filed for this
purpose. So under such circumstances we feel that three more months' time can be given to
the committee to proceed with the work and file a report. If they are not able to file the final
report, at least, they have to file an interim report regarding the nature of work done by them
and the nature of studies conducted by them etc..." The committee is directed to submit the report on or before 19.04.2021. Page No: 4 2. Constitution of Committee

In compliance of the Hon'ble Tribunal the committee constituted with the following
members; 1. Sub-Collector, Ranipet (Rep. District Collector) 2. Scientist D, MoEF&CC, RO, Chennai 3. Scientist D, CPC B, RD, Chennai 4. Joint Chief Environmental Engineer, O/o JCEE (M), TNPCB, Vellore 5. Superintending Engineer, WRD, Pennaiyar Basin Circle, Tiruvanamalai 6. Executive Engineer, Ground Water Department, Vellore 7. Project Officer, S IPC OT, Ranipet 8. Deputy Director, DISH, Vellore 3. Committee Meeting

Upon the constitution of the committee, a meeting was conducted on 16.12.2020 at
Collectorate Office headed by the District Collector, Ranipet. Discussion about Chromium dumpsite: To identify the sources of oxalic acid, inlet effluent samples of Common Effluent
 Page No: 6

 Treatment Plant (CETP) were collected and same is found, which shows the
 oxalic acid pollution may be due to Tanneries/CETPs earlier/past discharge. 2) Presence of Hexavalent Chromium were also identified in the water bodies,
 which is due to the continuous seepage water flowing from openly stored sludge
 present in the closed unit of M/s Tamilnadu Chromate and Chemical Ltd.,
 (TCCL). 3) Untreated sewage flow from nearby residential areas is also polluting the water
 bodies. 4) The drains/ channels connecting to the water bodies belongs to S IPC OT
 industrial area as well as the other local bodies found grown with bushes/plants,
 which results industries taking chances for illegal discharge. 5) The surface water bodies namely Puliyankannu lake, Karai lake, Sitheri lake and
 their drains were not properly maintained. Due to improper maintenance of
 drains, the water flow is affected, which leads to formation of wetland. 4. About M/s Tamilnadu Chromate & Chemical Ltd., (M/s TCCL), Ranipet

A brief history obtained from S IPC OT, Ranipet about the M/s TCCL ownership. M/s TCCL,
is a TIDCO joint venture company promoted during 1972 in association with Sh. K. K.
Mohiadeen for implanting the project for the manufacture of Basic Chromium Sulphate. The
promoters agreement was terminated due to equity contribution failure. Thereafter, the
company was managed by TIDCO through its nominee directors till Jan 1989 except for
initial two years period of operation. During 1988, TIDCO disinvested its shareholding in
favour of Sh. C. V. Sridhar, who was appointed as CMD of TCC to Sh. Ashok
Balasubramanian. The plant was not operated after 1995-96 as TNPCB issued notice to stop
production until the solid waste is disposed off. TNPCB in its letter to Industries Department stated that 1.52 lakhs tonnes (out of 2.27 lakhs
tonnes of chrome sludge) was generated during 1975 to 1988 when the management was with
TIDCO and the balance 0.75 lakhs tonnes was generated during management of Sh. C. V.
Sridhar and Sh. Ashok Balasubramaniam. Major 67% of waste generated during TIDCO
tenure. Further details of progress on criminal prosecution & steps for remediation initiated by
TNPCB against TCC & promotors is enclosed as Annexure III. Page No: 7 5. Present Status of Remediation of Chromium Dumpsite

During the committee visit, it is observed that the seepage from the dumpsite is flowing
through the drains and meeting to the surface water bodies (Karai Lake and its over flow
finally meets River Palar). Remediation process is not carried out so for. It is submitted that in compliance to the direction of Hon'ble NGT, Principal Bench, New
Delhi order dt. 29.02.2021 in the matter OA No. 804/2017 in the matter of Rajiv Narayan &
Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors. with respect to contaminated sites in India, CPC B has
convened a meeting with SPCBs/PCCs on 16.03.2021 to discuss Action Plan with roadmap
and specific timelines for carrying out preliminary/detailed site investigation, preparation of
DPRs, execution of remediation works, lifting of hazardous waste. Issues discussed w.r.t to
State of Tamil Nadu is given below

Tamil Nadu: There is 01 contaminated site for which DPR has been prepared and
forwarded the same to Government of Tamil Nadu and TNPCB for execution of
Remediation works. a) TNPCB informed that since the cost of actual remediation as per the DPR is very high,
it is proposed to lift and disposal of hazardous waste through TSDF. CPC B conveyed that Interim measures also proposed in DPR as per the request of
TNPCB/Govt. of TN for capping of waste and contaminated soil along with storm water
drainage system with a cost of about Rs. 12 crores. Afterwards, groundwater remediation
by applying Pump & Treat method may be implemented initially for 5 years. It was also
explained that cost of remediation will appear high due to inclusion of GW remediation
cost over a period of 15 years. However, actual cost may be much lower. Initial cost of
remediation may focus up 1-2 years O&M cost of GW remediation. While preparing DPR
cost of transferring to TSDF was discussed however, it was deferred due to cost
consideration. CPC B has suggested TNPCB that once DPR is accepted by Project Steering Committee
(PSC) headed by Chairman, CPC B remediation work needs to be executed within the
timelines stipulated in DPR. A copy of Minutes of Meeting held on 16.03.2021 is enclosed as Annexure-I
 Page No: 8

Upon the communication of aforesaid Minutes of Meeting, TNPCB has furnished following
action plan to CPC B vide letter dated 10.04.2021. A copy of TNPCB letter dated 10.04.2021
is enclosed as Annexure-II.  The option of shifting accumulated waste at M/s TCCL site, Ranipet to TSDF secure
 landfill disposal is dropped. The implementation of "Interim Remedial Measures of
 Soil & Waste Remediation" at TCCL, Ranipet as per DPR prepared by consultant of
 CPC B is under consideration.  Consultant has been asked to present on the methodology as per DPR & to involve in
 the preparation of Technical & Cost Bid documents. Time requirement is one month
 (before 31st May 2021).  The proposal along with required documents to get approval of the Board including
 budget to meet from Environmental Compensation Fund. Time requirement is three
 months (before 31st August 2021). 6. Summary of the Site Investigation & Findings as per DPR

Detailed site investigation was carried out by taking samples form 63 soil boreholes, 30
monitoring wells, 12 sediment boreholes, existing open wells, hand pumps, 11 bore water
and 14 surface water samples. Key findings of detailed site investigation is given below: Page No: 11

 Summary of Remedial Technology for the Site

 Matrix Location Selected Option
 INTERIM
 Soil and Waste On-site Capping of existing waste dump with
 provision for storm water collection
 FULL SCALE
 Waste and Soil On-site Excavation, Treatment, and Backfilling in on- site engineered secured landfill (SLF)
 Groundwater On-site and Off-site Pump and Treat with Source Removal and
 Hydraulic Containment System

An interim remedial plan for limiting the surface run-off and limiting leaching of hexavalent
chromium into groundwater is also presented in sections below. The interim plan consists of
capping the existing waste on-site by grading and engineering a cap to limit any
contamination from leaching into groundwater during monsoons. Along with the cap, a storm
water drainage network is also proposed prevent any surface water run-off from the site. A copy of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for remediation of chromium contaminated sites at
Ranipet, Tamil Nadu is enclosed as Annexure-IV. 7. Inspection of Industries by joint Committee

Out of 349 industries, 47 no. of industries are water polluting including CETPs, RED &
Orange categories. There are two CETP's are in operation for treating Tannery Effluents
generates from 99-member tannery units. The industries inspected by the committee during
December 22 to 24, 2020 are listed below and individual industries observation are as
follows; Operational during inspection:  The unit has obtained consents under Water & Air Act with validity till March 31,
 2021 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 19.06.2022 obtained for
 used oil and spent carbon only.  The unit has installed ETP of capacity 300 KLD. The treatment plant consists of
 Bioreactor, RO plant, Multi effect evaporator (MEE). Triple effect evaporator (TEE),
 Fluidised immobilised carbon cell oxidation (FICCO) & Clarifier.
  The concentrate from TEE is sent for co-processing to cement industry.
  The condensate water from MEE & TEE is further treated in FICCO treatment system
 to reduce the COD. The treated effluent from FICCO is consented to reuse in process,
 cooling tower & gardening.  The unit is claiming that presently, the treated effluent is completely reused in
 process, cooling tower, boiler not used for gardening purpose and achieving ZLD.
  The unit has installed pH, COD, BOD & TSS online analyser in the outlet of treated
 effluent.  Earlier, the unit is carrying out the bio composting of the concentrated effluent. It is
 informed that bio composting was stopped before September 2020. Presently, the
 concentrate is being sent for co-processing to cement industry. Page No: 13

 The yeast sludge generated was used along with press mud for bio composting. Since
 composting is stopped, presently the yeast sludge is being disposed along with
 concentrate for co-processing, whereas no approval has been obtained so for this
 disposal method.  The sludge generated in the FICCO treatment is removed through clarifier. This
 sludge is being presently sent to TSDF, whereas the characteristics of the sludge is not
 carried out.  The unit has not obtained HW Authorisation for the generation, storage& disposal of
 spent solvent residue generated from the process, off specification product and
 chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. It is informed that spent solvent residue is
 being sent to co-processing through M/s Raj Pharma Transporter, whereas the
 quantity and name of the co-processing unit is not provided by the industry. The
 solvents used in the process are Toluene, Methanol & Acetone.
 The unit has installed three boilers of capacities 4 TPH, 3.5 TPH & 6 TPH using fuel
 Biogas/furnace oil (4 TPH) & wood respectively. It is informed that 3.5 TPH boiler is
 regularly used for operation and remaining two are stand by. So OCEMS is installed
 to the 3.5 TPH boiler stack & connected to CPC B/TNPCB server. Whereas on
 verification of records of boiler operation, 6 TPH boiler is also operated regularly and
 no OCEMS system is installed.  Individual wet scrubber is installed as APCD to boilers 3.5 TPH & 6 TPH. During
 inspection, both the boilers operated and scrubbers are not in operation.
 The unit has installed & connected flow meters of Bio reactor feed, RO permeate &
 MEE-TEES condensate to CPC B. Whereas in TNPCB server additional flow meters
 connected are RO feed, MEES feed & TEES feed.
 The spent solvent residue & re-processing materials are kept stored in the open yard.
 Even though, the unit stopped bio composting process before September 2020, the bio
 compost is still kept in the open yard without any covering, which lead to the
 carryover of compost during the rainy season. This carry over is collected in the
 lagoon and same is witnessed by the presence of sludge deposit in the lagoon. Page No: 14

7.2 M/s. Malladi Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (Unit-III)

  The unit is consented for the production following products

 Pseudo Ephedrine Hydrochloride 12 TPM
 Alprazolam 0.012 TPM
 Propranolol Hydro Chloride 24 TPM
 Albendazole 0.180 TPM
 Theophyline 3 TPM
 Dapsone 1.8 TPM
 Atenolol 48 TPM

  The unit has obtained consents under Water & Air Act with validity till March 31,
 2021 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 19.06.2022 obtained for
 used oil and spent carbon only.  The unit has installed ETP of capacity 194 KLD. The industry is segregating the low
 & high TDS effluent. The low TDS effluent is treated in ETP consisting of collection
 tank, equalisation tank, aeration tank, settling tank, activated carbon filter, multi effect
 evaporator & Agitated thin film dryer. High TDS stream is consisting of
 neutralisation multi effect evaporator & Agitated thin film dryer.
  The low TDS treated effluent after treatment is taken directly to MEE without RO
 system, where huge amount of energy is required to concentrate.
  Acetic acid is generated as by-product from the process, which is not incorporated in
 the consent obtained from TNPCB
  The unit has not obtained HW Authorisation for the generation, storage& disposal of
 spent solvent residue generated from the process, off specification product and
 chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. It is informed that spent solvent residue is
 being sent to co-processing through M/s Raj Pharma Transporter, whereas the
 quantity and name of the co-processing unit is not provided by the industry. The
 solvents used in the process are Toluene, iso propyl alcohol, Methanol & Acetone.
  The spent solvent residue & re-processing materials are kept stored in the open yard.
  The unit was not in operation during the committee visit due to closure direction
 issued by District Coordination Committee (DCC) & TNPCB. The closure issued
 because the industry was sending concentrate FCE wastewater through tanker lorry
 without any permission/ consent. It was informed that concentrate is also given to M/s
 Page No: 15

 Raj Pharma Transporter. Industry claims that this waste water (concentrate FCE) is
 used as raw material by M/s Maha Tripurasundari industries pvt. Ltd., Telangana.
  In view of violation, TNPCB has imposed environmental compensation for Rs.
 47,10,000/- and same is paid by the industry. 7.3 M/s SVISS LABSS PVT LIMITED
  The unit is consented for the production of seven products. The details are as follows;  As per the information submitted by the unit, the products & by products produced
 last three financial years are tabulated below

 Product & By Product manufactured Product Manufactured in TPA

 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20
 Ibuprofen Stage -I Iso Butyl Acetophenone 185.21 211.94 215.79
 Aluminium Chloride Liquid 8350 9205 9540
 HCl 137.5 159 161.8

  The unit has not obtained consents for by product Aluminium Chloride Liquid & HCl.
  The unit has obtained consents under water & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2021.
  The unit has not obtained authorisation under hazardous waste rules for generation,
 storage & disposal of off specification/ contaminated product.
  The total fresh water consumption is 72.79 KLD, which is met through SPICOT
 supply. At present the unit is producing one product and generating 1.2 KLD of waste
 water (0.6 KLD from lab & floor washing and 0.6 KLD from softener, cooling tower
 & blow down).  The unit has submitted that the installed capacity of ETP is 1.2 KLD. The unit has
 provided separate treatment system for low TDS stream & high TDS stream.
 Whereas, the unit claims lab & floor washing as high TDS stream, which
 Page No: 16

 scientifically not correct. This effluent can be treated in ETP rather than taking
 directly to evaporator. Treating this effluent in present evaporator system provided in
 the plant is not technically & economically viable.
 The unit has installed own designed evaporator, where design inlet concentration of
 TDS is not known and it is informed that the unit is achieving TDS around 1 lac
 concentration. The observed TDS of the sample which is fed to evaporator is 3982
 mg/l and to achieve the said TDS concentration I lac mg/l huge amount of energy is
 required.  The unit has installed single stage RO system, where the reject concentration observed
 is 2700 mg/l.  The effluent generated from the process is High TDS stream, which can't be treated in
 ETP due to high strength of effluent.  The unit claims that no process effluent is generated, whereas the process wash water
 is being recycled. As per the information submitted by the unit, the fresh water is used
 for washing of organic layer, in such case additional water is being getting
 accumulated along with recycle water and moreover continuous recycling may also
 lead to contamination in the product. So in any case of time chances are there for
 disposal of wash water to ETP, this quantity generation is not mentioned.
 As per the consent, the trade effluent generation for the consented seven products is
 24 KLD, whereas the unit has provided only 1.2 KLD ETP capacity against the
 consented quantity.  The unit has provided collection, neutralisation & evaporator for high TDS effluent
 treatment.  Low TDS effluent is directly taken to RO system and the reject is sent to Evaporator
 along with high TDS effluent for concentration. Then the concentrate is sent to
 elevated solar evaporation pond. The unit has not provided any treatment system for
 the low TDS effluent generated from softener, cooling tower & blow down before
 treating in RO, which may affect the working performance of the RO system.
 Before installation of evaporator system, ZLD is achieved through ground level solar
 evaporation pond. TNPCB directed to remove this SEP after installation of
 evaporator, whereas the unit still having the system and effluent is present.
 The unit has installed flow meter at outlet of ETP only. Page No: 17

7.4 M/s Ultramarine & Pigments Ltd.  The unit is consented for the production of following products with installed capacity
 and its present production;  The total water consumption including process and other activities like washing,
 boiler, domestic is 106.9 KLD, which is met through S IPC OT water supply and
 wastewater generation from process is 9.1 KLD and domestic is 4.5 KLD.
  The unit has obtained consents under water Act & Air Act with validity till
 31.03.2021 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 31.03.25
  The unit is achieving ZLD. The treatment system consisting of settling tank, RO (3
 stages), MEE & ATFD.  During the inspection, it is observed that settling tank is not properly maintained and
 found with algae growth.  TDS is measured in RO water to know the working performance, it is observed that
 TDS in feed, permeate & reject is 3000 mg/l, 580 mg/l and 4500 mg/l respectively,
 which shows poor performance of RO due to improper maintenance.
  Fugitive emission of SO2 was observed in the kiln area due to leakages.
  During inspection, upgradation of kiln was observed and the waste generated is found
 stored in open yard. 7.5 M/s Arjun Chemicals Pvt Ltd.,

  The unit is consented for production of Dynasize - 500 MTM, Dynasol - 300 MTM
 & AKD/ Composize - 580 MTM. During the committee inspection, unit was not in
 operation.  The unit has obtained consent under water & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2021.
  The source of fresh water is met through SPICOT supply. The unit has installed RO
 system for the fresh water supplied by S IPC OT. The total fresh water consumption is
 about 52 KLD, in which 10 KLD of RO reject is used for gardening. Page No: 18

  As per the consented condition, the unit has installed electromagnetic flow meter for
 discharge of RO reject whereas online TDS meters is not provided at discharge point.
  The unit claims that no wastewater is generated from the process. The vessels/
 reactors are being washed with solvent at time of changeover of other batch product
 production and the washed solvent is stored and again used in the process.
  The unit has provided wet scrubber to rosin crusher & melter.
  TNPCB has imposed environmental compensation for Rs. 5,00,000/- based on the
 inspection carried out under CEPI action plan and same is paid by the industry. 7.6 M/s P A FOOTWEAR P LTD. Unit-II

  The unit is involved in production of Semi-Finished to finished leather with consented
 quantity of 37.50 T/M.
  The total water consumption is 27 KLD, which is met through S IPC OT water supply
 and reuse of RO permeate.  The consented quantity of waste water generation is 25 KLD, whereas the unit
 presently generating 19 KLD.  The unit was member of CETP till 2016 and thereafter, the effluent generated in the
 plant is treated in their own ETP.  The unit is achieving ZLD, the treatment system installed are neutralisation, primary
 clarifier, Aeration, secondary & tertiary clarifier, filter, RO system (3 stage), salzberg
 mechanical dryer.  Salzberg mechanical dryer will not effectively work to concentrate the effluent & salt
 out.  The unit has obtained consents under water Act & Air Act with validity till March 31,
 2022 and Hazardous waste authorisation with validity till 14.04.2024.
  During the inspection, wet sludge & salt (semi solid) is found stored in open drums.
  The unit has installed seven flow meters and connected to TNPCB server. Page No: 19

7.7 M/s Thirumalai Chemicals Ltd

  In the matter of OA no. 131/2020, the committee constituted by Hon'ble NGT
 inspected the unit and given the following recommendations;
  As the unit was observed for non-compliance of consent order conditions, discharges
 noticed in violation of consent conditions, internal discharge to the environment -land,
 water and air resulting into acute injury or damage to the environment and injection of
 treated /partially treated /untreated effluents to the ground water and based on
 repeated violations, the unit was directed by TNPCB to restrict the production of 50
 % of its consented quantity so as to achieve zero liquid discharge consistently till the
 commencement & effective functioning of newly constructed ZLD components. As
 the unit is in the process of establishing ZLD system and started trial runs for
 validation of the equipment to achieve Zero liquid discharge with respect to treating
 effluents, the unit shall be allowed to operate in full load only after ensuring the
 complete/full-fledged operation of upgraded ETP by TNPCB. The full-fledged
 operation of ZLD system should be commenced within four months-time by the TCL.
 Further, the conditions issued by TNPCB are to be complied within three-months
 times.  After commissioning of upgraded ETP, adequacy test needs to be carried out by an
 independent govt academic/research institution like IIT Madras and to certify that the
 unit has achieved 100% ZLD capacity.  TCL shall, in consultation with reputed institute such as IIT, Madras, prepare a DPR
 within three months-time, for the remediation of the land where the untreated effluent
 was discharged within the industry site and execute the task of remediation of
 contaminated site, under the supervision of TNPCB. The entire cost for the study and
 remediation shall be borne by the industry as per polluter pays principle.
  In view of the non-compliance by M/s TCL, TNPCB imposed environmental
 compensation twice of Rs. 18,60,000 vide order dated 13-11-2019 and Rs. 17,40,000
 vide order on 9-12-2020. Both the compensations were paid by TCL on 13-12-2019 &
 22-1-2021 respectively. Page No: 20

7.8 M/s. Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leather Effluent Treatment Company Limited (Phase 1)

  The CETP is established for treatment of tannery effluent. The member units are
 involved in processing Semi finished to finish leather. Totally 88 tanneries are
 member of this CETP, in which 79 units are in operation.
  The CETP is designed for treatment of 2.5 MLD wastewater, TNPCB has restricted
 the effluent generation to 75 % i.e 1875 KLD. Presently CETP receives wastewater
 around 1 to 1.5 MLD within the restricted quantity.
  The treatment unit comprises of Receiving Sump, Equalization tank, flash mixture,
 Primary Clarifier, Aeration tank I & II, Secondary Clarifier, Reactor Clarifier, Multi
 Grade filters, Ultra filters, 3 stage R.O system, Multi Effect Evaporator (MEE),
 Centrifuge and filter press.  The CETP generates approximately around 12 TPD sludge and disposed to TWML
 Gummidipoondi & Arunachala Enterprises (for Co - Processing), Karur. At
 accumulated sludge stored is around 1300 Tons.
  At present no prescribed standards for CETP inlet effluent, however all the member
 units are discharging the effluent after pre settling. The sludge removed by the
 member units is being disposed through CETP.
  As per the record of CETP, as on 30th November 2020 total salt Accumulated is
 around 12403.28 MT.  CETP has installed 18 flow meters which are connected to TNPCB server & CPC B
 server.  Construction activities is being carried out by the CETP for upgradation of treatment
 units, during the inspection coloured seepage was noticed below the ground
 level/foundation area and samples were collected to know the characteristics of
 seepage. The observed values are TDS - 31030 mg/l, Chloride - 9050 mg/l and
 sulphate 1960 mg/l, COD - 4872 mg/l & BOD - 768 mg/l. As per the analysis report,
 it clearly indicates the contamination is due to tannery effluent.
  During the inspection, the committee instructed TNPCB & CETP to stop the
 construction activities until identifying the sources of pollution and take necessary
 action after identification of sources.
  CETP has obtained consents under Water & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2022,
 whereas HW Authorisation expired on 31.03.2020. Page No: 21

  CETP has not obtained HW Authorisation for Storage & disposal of chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. 7.9 M/s. S IPC OT & SIDCO Phase 2 Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent Company (P) Ltd

  The CETP is established for treatment of tannery effluent. The member units are
 involved in processing Semi finished to finish leather. Totally 20 operational tanneries
 are member of this CETP and proposed member tanneries are 20 units.
  The CETP is designed for treatment of 2.5 MLD wastewater, presently it receives
 wastewater around 1 to 1.5 MLD. The treatment unit comprises of Receiving Sump,
 Equalization tank, flash mixture, flocculator, Primary Clarifier, Aeration tanks,
 Secondary Clarifier, flash mixture, flocculator, Pressure sand Filter, Reactor Clarifier,
 Neutralization tank, Ultra filters, Organic scavengers, R.O (2 stage) systems, Multi
 Effect Evaporator (MEE), Centrifuge and filter press.
  CETP is upgrading the treatment system such as oxidation pond, 3rd stage RO and
 MEE with ATFD.  All the member units are discharging the effluent to CETP without pre-treatment and
 inlet norms for CETP is also not prescribed by TNPCB.
  CETP has installed 18 flow meters which are connected to TNPCB server & only two
 flow meters (inlet & OHT) to CPC B server.  The CETP generates approximately around 0.8 - 1 TPD sludge and disposed to
 TWML Gummidipoondi. Sludge is disposed as on December, 2020 is 1557 tons.
  As per the record of CETP, as on December 2020, the total salt accumulated is around
 679 MT.  The sludge stored in the SLF facility (old & new) is 4979 Tons. This SLF facility
 found in damage condition.  CETP has obtained consents under Water Act & Air Act with validity till 31.03.2022,
 whereas the HW Authorisation expired on June 2020.
  CETP has not obtained HW Authorisation for Storage & disposal of chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Page No: 22

8.0 Environmental Compensation Calculation: Case I: If authorisation has been taken at any point of time, in such cases, Q may be
taken as below: (ii) All facility other than at Sl. No. (1) and 2(i) above

S = Scale of Operation factor of the facility and may be taken from below Table: C = Category of Facility factor and be taken from below Table; ECF = Environmental Compensation Factor, which is summation of one or more ECF,
as applicable, as given in below Table: Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R

 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 18.2
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (18.2 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs. 40,95,000

EC calculated for M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit I) is Rs 40,95,000/-
(Rupees fortylakhs ninety-fivethousand)
 Page No: 26

8.2 M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit 3)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained & applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of spent solvent residue generated in the process, off specification products, chemical
 drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 41.6
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (41.6 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs. 93,60,000

EC calculated for M/s. Malladi Drugs &Pharmaceuticals Limited (Unit 3) is Rs 93,60,000/-
(Rupees Ninety-three lakhs sixty thousand)

8.3 M/s Sviss Labss Private Limited (i) Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained for generation, storage & disposal of
 off specification products. EC (in Rupees) = T x S x C x ECF x Y

 T = Type of facility factor = 1
 S = Scale of Operation factor = 1
 C = Category of Facility factor = 1
 ECF = Environmental Compensation Factor = 45,00,000
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5

 EC = 1 x 1 x 1 x 45,00,000 x 5 = Rs. 2,25,00,000 (ii) Violation Noticed:Not obtained Consent for By products till date. Environmental compensation is calculated using Pollution Index Formula
 EC = PI * N * R * S * LF

 PI = Pollution Index, RED category industry (PI = 80)
 Page No: 27

 R = Rupees Factor (R = 250)
 S = Scale of Operation, Medium Scale (S = 1)
 LF = Location Factor, CEPI Area (LF = 2)
 N= Number of days for which violation took place is the period between the day of
 violation observed/ due date of compliance of directions and the day of compliance
 verified by CPC B/ SPCB/ PCC. for interim compensation calculation no. of days taken
 from date of committee visit 22.12.2020 to 31.03.2021.(N = 100 days)

 EC = 80 * 100 * 250 * 1 * 2 = Rs. 40,00,000 = Rs 40 lakhs. Total EC = Rs. 2,25,00,000 + Rs. 40,00,000 = 2,65,00,000/- Total EC calculated for M/s. Sviss Labs Pvt. Ltd., is Rs 2,65,00,000/- (Rupees Two Crores
Sixty-five Lakhs)

8.4 M/s Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leathers Effluent Treatment Company (P) Ltd (CETP)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained& applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 1
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (1 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs.2, 25,000

EC calculated for /s Ranipet SIDCO Finished Leathers Effluent Treatment Company (P)
Ltd is Rs 2,25,000/- (Rupees two lakhs twenty-five thousand)
 Page No: 28

8.5M/s S IPC OT-SIDCO Phase-II Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent Treatment Co.
(P) Ltd. (CETP)

 Violation Noticed: HW Authorisation not obtained& applied for generation, storage &
 disposal of chemical drums/barrels/containers/ bags. Environmental Compensation (EC) = Q x ERF x R
 Q =Quantity in terms of tone/per year, as specified in authorisation x Y
 Quantity in terms of tone/per year = 0.75
 Y = Number of years of operation = 5
 ERF = Environmental Risk Factor = 1.5
 R= Environmental Compensation factor, which may be taken as Rs. 30,000. EC = (0.75 x 5) x 1.5 x 30000 = Rs.1,68,750

EC calculated for M/s. S IPC OT-SIDCO Phase-II Entrepreneur Finished Leather Effluent
Treatment Co. (P) Ltd., is Rs 1,68,750/- (Rupees one lakh sixty-eight thousand seven
hundred fifty only)

8.6 Environmental Compensation imposed on other industries by TNPCB: 9. Recommendations for industries: 10. Conclusions on Remediation of Chromium Contaminated Site at Ranipet, Tamil
Nadu: 11. It is seen from the report that there was no progress made on

 implementation of the remediation work, even after finalization of DPR

 and the committee wanted this Tribunal to direct the Government of

 Tamil Nadu to implement the following:- 12. In O.A. No.186/2020, we feel it appropriate to direct the State of Tamil

 Nadu to come with a concrete action plan for implementation of the

 project, for which, DPR has been prepared by the Central Pollution

 Control Board, for remediation of Chromium deposits in that area, which

 posses danger to the people of Ranipet. When the companies which are

 responsible to undertake remediation measures are not available and

 certain action will have to be taken to remedy the situation, the State

 Government has to take the responsibility of proceeding with the

 remediation process and recover the cost from those who are responsible

 for causing such pollution. The State Government cannot wait for a longer

 period, as the issue regarding the pollution caused on account of the

 tanneries and other industries which are the main produces of Chromium

 has been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court even during 1996 and

 directions have been issued in Vellore Citizen's Welfare Forum Vs. Union

 of India1 and directions have been issued by the Hon'ble Apex Court to

 take remedial measures by the regulators including the State Government. Since no effective steps have been taken by the regulators as well as the

 State Government, on the basis of the newspaper report this Tribunal had

 taken Suo Motu action for remedying the situation and that is how, O.A.

 No.186 of 2020 was registered by this Tribunal. As regards O.A.

 No.131/2020 is concerned, it is only a portion of issue that has been 1 (1996) 5 SCC 647
 projected against one of the industry and certain remedial measures have

 been suggested by the regulators and also by the Joint Committee and it is

 only on the question of satisfaction of compliance of the recommendations

 made and whether that will remedy the situation as far as 8th respondent is

 concerned, without going into the larger issue which has been projected in

 O.A. No.181/2020 and if ultimately the 8th respondent is responsible for

 the same, that will have to be considered in that case separately. However, even as per the compliance report, certain things will have to be

 done by the 8th respondent which even according to them, were planned

 to be completed by June 30, 2021 and that will have to be further certified

 by the IIT Madras regarding the adequacy of the remediation measures

 taken by the 8th respondent, but such reports are not now before this

 Tribunal. 13. So under such circumstances, we direct the Joint Committee as well as the

 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to go into the issue on the basis of the

 objection filed by the 8th respondent to the Joint Committee report and the

 status report submitted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and

 submit a further status report regarding the present status, after

 remediation work has been undertaken by the 8th respondent and whether

 that is sufficient to meet the situation as well. 14. They are directed to submit the report to this Tribunal on or before

 30.09.2021 by e-filing in the form of Searchable PDF/OCR Supportable
 PDF and not in the form of Image PDF along with necessary hardcopies to

 be produced as per Rules. 15. The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the members of the

 committee as well as to the Chairman, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control

 Board and also to the Chief Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu, Principal

 Secretary for Environment, Principal Secretary for Industries by e-mail

 immediately to consider the recommendations made by the Joint

 Committee and come with a proper action plan for implementation of the

 project, for which, DPR has been prepared by the CPC B in this regard, so

 as to remedy the situation permanently in tune with the directions issued

 by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizen 's case cited supra. 16. For consideration of further status report and action plan to be filed by the

 State of Tamil Nadu in this regard, post on 30.09.2021. Sd/- ....................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 Sd/- ...............................E.M.
 (Dr. K. Satyagopal)

O.A. No.131/2020 &
O.A. No.186/2020,
16th August, 2021. Mn.