GANGULY, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The judgment and order dated 19th February, 2010 of

 the Division Bench of the High Court of Andhra

 Pradesh in Civil Revision No.5712/2009 has been

 impugned in this appeal. 1 3. The material facts which are required to be

 considered to resolve the controversy in this

 appeal, are as follows. 4. The appellant, Venture Global Engineering, having

 its principal office in Michigan, USA, entered into

 a Shareholders Agreement and a Joint Venture

 Agreement on 20th October, 1999 with the first

 respondent, for establishing a company called Satyam

 Venture Engineering Services (hereinafter, "the

 second respondent"). As per the terms of the

 agreement, the appellant and the first respondent

 each held 50 per cent shareholding in the second

 respondent. 5. Article VIII of the Shareholders Agreement

 contemplates certain `events of default', and in the

 event of default, non-defaulting shareholder has the

 option to purchase the defaulter's shares at book

 value or cause immediate dissolution and liquidation

 of the second respondent. 6. In the year 2000, the second respondent entered into

 an agreement with TRW, a manufacturer and supplier 2 of automotive equipments, to provide engineering and

 IT services. They agreed to sub-contract the

 automotive engineering works to the second

 respondent. The first respondent levied US $3 an

 hour towards administrative charges. According to

 first respondent, they retained US $859,899 from the

 TRW receipts. The appellant disputed the same and

 alleged that Satyam retained a total of US

 $2,188,000, and also alleged concealment and

 dereliction of duty as a joint venture partner.

 Thus, disputes cropped-up and were referred to

 arbitration. 7. The sole arbitrator gave his award on 3rd April, 2006

 whereby the appellant is to transfer its entire

 shareholding in the second respondent to the first

 respondent. The first respondent filed a petition

 for the recognition and enforcement of the award

 before the U.S. District Court, Eastern District

 Court of Michigan. 8. On 28th April, 2006, the appellant filed a suit (O.S.

 No. 80/2006) seeking a declaration to set aside the

 award and also prayed for a permanent injunction 3 against the transfer of shares under the arbitral

 award, in the Court of Ist Additional Chief Judge,

 City Civil Court, Secundrabad. The Trial Court

 dismissed the suit of the appellant on the ground

 that a foreign award could not be challenged under Section 34 of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act,

 1996 (herein after, ABC, 1996). 9. The appellant appealed against the order of the

 Trial Court before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh

 at Hyderabad, and the said appeal was also dismissed

 on 27th February, 2007. 10. Thereafter, the appellant filed a special leave

 petition before this Court and this Court, vide its

 order dated 15th May, 2007, issued notice to the

 respondents and passed an interim order restraining

 the transfer of shares pending the disposal of the

 special leave petition. 11. This Court then finally heard the matter and allowed

 the special leave petition vide its Judgment and

 Order in Venture Global Engineering vs. Satyam

 Computer Services Ltd. and another (2008) 4 SCC 190 4 and held that a foreign award could be challenged

 under Section 34 of ABC, 1996. In the light of this

 finding, this Court remanded the case to the trial

 court and directed that the parties were to maintain

 status quo with respect to transfer of shares. Thus,

 the case of the appellant was transferred to the

 IInd Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court,

 Hyderabad. 12. Meanwhile, on 7th January, 2009, Mr. Ramalinga Raju,

 Chairman and founder of the first respondent

 confessed that the balance sheets of the first

 respondent had been fraudulently inflated to the

 tune of Rs.7,080/- crores. As a result, Price

 Waterhouse Cooper (PWC), auditors of the first

 respondent, declared that the financial statements

 could no longer be considered accurate or reliable. 13. In the light of these developments regarding the

 first respondent, the appellant filed an interim

 application before the Trial Court (I.A. No.

 1331/2009 dated 12th June, 2009) to bring certain

 facts on record and also filed additional pleadings 5 in respect of the same under Order VIII Rule 9 of

 the Civil Procedure Code, 1908. 14. The Trial Court, vide its Order dated 3rd November,

 2009, allowed the application of the appellant. The

 first respondent challenged the said order of the

 Trial Court by filing a civil revision before the

 High Court. 15. The High Court, vide its order dated 19th February,

 2010, allowed the revision petition of the first

 respondent. The High Court, inter alia, held that a

 reading of Section 34(1) and (3) of the ABC, 1996

 indicates that a party could only set aside the

 arbitral award if an application for the same is

 made within a period of 3 months (extendable by

 another 30 days) from the date of making the award;

 whereas in the present case the new grounds of

 challenge are sought to be brought after the

 limitation period. 16. Further, the High Court also held that an

 application under Order VIII Rule 9 of the Civil

 Procedure Code, 1908 for bringing additional

 pleadings on record would not lie. The High Court 6 held, relying on Rule 12(1) of the Andhra Pradesh

 Arbitration Rules, 2000, that Rule VIII of Civil

 Procedure Code is not applicable, so a petition for

 additional pleading is not maintainable under Order

 VIII of Civil Procedure Code. Therefore, the High

 Court did not allow the appellant to file additional

 pleadings on record. 17. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment and order of the

 High Court, the appellant has approached this Court

 by way of filing a special leave petition. 18. In the course of argument before this Court, Mr.

 Harish N. Salve, learned senior counsel appearing

 for the respondents did not make any attempt to

 defend the order of the High Court on the question

 of limitation as the learned counsel was obviously

 conscious of the decision of this Court in the State

 of Maharashtra Vs. M/s Hindustan Construction

 Company Ltd. - AIR 2010 SC 1299. 19. This Court In M/s. Hindustan Construction (supra)

 made it clear that it cannot be the intention of the

 Legislature to shut out amendments, as a result of 7 which incorporation of relevant materials in a

 pending setting aside proceeding is prevented. 20. In M/s. Hindustan Construction (supra) this Court

 considered the provision in Section 34(2)(b) of ABC,

 1996 and while considering the ambit of the

 expression "the Court finds that" in Section

 34(2)(b) , this Court opined that where application

 under Section 34 has been made within the prescribed

 time, leave to amend grounds, in such an

 application, if the peculiar circumstances of the

 case and the interest of justice so warrant, can be

 granted. 21. In saying so, this Court in paragraph 25 of the

 report, relied on the decisions of this Court in the

 case of L.J. Leach and Company Ltd. and another Vs.

 Jardine Skinner and Co. - AIR 1957 SC 357 and

 Pirgonda Hongonda Patil Vs. Kalgonda Shidgonda Patil and ors. - AIR 1957 SC 363 and held where it is

 required in the interest of justice, the Court

 always has the power to grant leave to amend and

 this power to grant an amendment is not affected

 under Section 34 . 8 22. We are of the opinion that in dealing with a prayer

 for amendment, Courts normally prefer substance to

 form and techniques and the interest of justice is

 one of most relevant considerations. Therefore, if a

 party is entitled to amend its pleadings, having

 regard to the justice of the case, the right of the

 party to amend cannot be defeated just because a

 wrong Section or a wrong provision has been quoted

 in the amendment petition. The approach of the High

 Court in this case, in rejecting the appellant's

 prayer for amendment, inter alia, on the ground that

 a wrong provision has been quoted in the amendment

 petition, is obviously a very hyper technical one.

 Mr. Salve rightly did not even try to defend the

 impugned order on the aforesaid technical ground

 adopted by the High Court. 23. Mr. Salve, learned senior counsel argued on a

 different line. The learned counsel submitted that

 the grounds which are sought to be incorporated by

 way of amendment are not relevant and do not come

 within the concept of public policy which has been

 explained in the Explanation to Section 34 of ABC, 9 1996. The learned counsel took us through the award

 and tried to demonstrate that the facts which are

 sought to be brought on record, even if they are

 accepted to be true, have no bearing on the material

 facts on which the award is based. The learned

 counsel urged that the Explanation under Section 34 of ABC, 1996 has to be strictly construed and the

 expression "in the making of the award" must be

 confined to mean any fraud committed before the

 arbitrator in the course of the arbitral

 proceedings. According to the learned counsel that

 expression will not take within its sweep anything

 which happened after the making of the award. In

 other words the learned counsel repeatedly urged

 that the expression "making of the award" must be

 confined to facts anterior to the delivery of the

 award and not anything which happened subsequent to

 that. 24. Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing

 for the appellant and contradicting the aforesaid

 contentions submitted that facts which are sought to

 be incorporated by amendment are only those which

 have been disclosed by the first respondent on its 10 own. Prior to such disclosure, they were not in

 public domain and naturally could not be included in

 the original petition to set aside the award.

 Without disclosure of those facts by the first

 respondent, the appellant could not have known them.

 It is submitted that in any event those facts are

 relevant for the purpose of being put on record by

 amendment. 25. Learned counsel further submitted that the award has

 been obtained by the first respondent by suppressing

 those facts, which on disclosure show a clear

 connection with the facts in issue, in the award.

 In such a case fraud as is understood in civil law,

 has been committed in the making of the award. It

 was further submitted that the interest of justice

 in such a case would demand that amendment should be

 allowed. 26. These are basically the rival contentions of the

 parties. 27. Now let us consider the facts which the appellant

 wanted to incorporate by way of amendment in the 11 petition for additional pleading filed in the Court

 of Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court at

 Hyderabad (I.A. No. 1331/2009). Those facts are: 28. Relying on the aforesaid materials which were sought

 to be incorporated by way of amendment, it was urged

 by the appellant that the aforesaid materials go to

 show that the very basis of the fiduciary duties of

 the first respondent to the appellant was breached,

 even prior to the Shareholders Agreement between the

 parties. The first respondent on concealment of

 these facts induced the appellant to enter into an

 agreement with it. 29. It appears that the first respondent did not make

 available to the appellant verified financial

 statements to show the amount of TRW revenue which

 was diverted, and the appellant was thus left to 16 assess such amount based on various representations

 of the financial statements made by the first

 respondent to the appellant. But the facts which the

 appellant wanted to bring on record by way of

 amendment would show that the representations made

 by the first respondent about its financial position

 were prima facie unreliable. 30. It was also urged that the valuation of the shares

 of the second respondent is fundamentally important

 in the decision-making process relating to the

 award. Such valuation is based on unreliable

 financial statements. 31. Under these circumstances, a prayer was made in the

 amendment petition to bring the aforesaid facts on

 record in the pending proceeding for setting aside

 the award. 32. Learned counsel for the appellants also urged that

 in the statement of claim filed by the first

 respondent, it has been stated that the first

 respondent is a "solvent shareholder" as defined in

 the agreement, and on that statement, the first 17 respondent claimed that they have either: (a) the

 right of purchasing the shares held by the

 appellants, or (b) causing immediate liquidation of

 the second respondent. 33. Learned counsel contended that the aforesaid claim

 of the first respondent that it is a solvent

 shareholder is based on concealment of the facts

 stated above. He further submitted that any person,

 on a bonafide consideration of the facts stated

 above would prima facie form an opinion that the

 claim of the respondents as a solvent shareholder is

 fraudulent. The award has been obtained by the first

 respondent on the basis of such fraudulent claim.

 Therefore, in the interest of justice and having

 regard to the public policy of India, the High Court

 should have allowed the appellant to bring those

 facts on record by way of amendment, in the pending

 proceeding for setting aside the award. 34. In the context of the aforesaid issues involved in

 this appeal, the provision of Section 34 of ABC,

 1996, especially explanation to Section 18 34(2)(b)(ii) , calls for interpretation by this

 court. 35. Section 34 of ABC, 1996, has four sub-sections. In this case we are not concerned with sub-sections

 (3) and (4). 36. Sub-section (1) provides for an application for

 setting aside arbitral award. Sub-section (2)(a)

 provides for the grounds for setting aside an

 arbitral award as grounds (i) to (v). 37. Section 34(2)(b) , with which we are concerned here,

 provides as follows: Explanation.-Without prejudice to the
 generality of sub-clause (ii) it is
 hereby declared, for the avoidance of any
 doubt, that an award is in conflict with 19 the public policy of India if the making
 of the award was induced or affected by
 fraud or corruption or was in violation
 of section 75 or section 81 ." 38. The explanation is very crucial in the context of

 the present case. 39. The concept of public policy, in view of century old

 decision of Lord Justice Burrough in Richardson vs.

 Mellish (1824-34) All E.R. 258, conjures up to our

 mind an equine image of a high and unruly horse. The

 consensus of opinion amongst judges is that concept

 of public policy is incapable of precise definition. 40. In Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. and another vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly and another reported in AIR 1986 SC 1571 at 1612, this Court

 discussed the concept of public policy elaborately

 in the context of Section 23 of the Contract Act.

 The discussion, however, was not confined to Section

 23 of Contract Act alone but was on a general

 jurisprudential concept of public policy, and it

 referred to the opinion of Lord Denning, where the

 Master of Rolls said with characteristic clarity- (See Enderby Town Football Club Ltd. vs. Football

 Association Ltd. - 1971 Chancery Division 591 at 606). 41. A three judge Bench in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. vs.

 General Electric Co. reported in AIR 1994 SC 860,

 after referring to Brojo Nath (supra), dealt with

 the concept of public policy while construing the

 provisions of Foreign Awards (Recognition and

 Enforcement) Act, 1961 . 42. It may be mentioned in this connection that the

 present ABC, 1996 is a consolidating statute and it

 has also repealed the aforesaid 1961 Act (Section 85

 of ABC, 1996). Therefore, the discussion on public

 policy in Renusagar (supra) is of some relevance in

 the present context. 43. In Renusagar (supra), after a fairly elaborate

 consideration of concept of public policy in various

 jurisdictions, this Court came to hold that an award

 is considered contrary to public policy if it is

 opposed to: (a) fundamental policy of India law, (b) 21 interests of India and (c) justice or morality (See

 paragraph 86 on page 888). 44. This concept of public policy, in the realm of

 arbitration law, is a rather vexed concept, in the

 sense that different countries have different

 concepts of public policy. Say for instance, some

 countries which do not countenance gambling, an

 award arising out of a gambling dispute may be set

 aside on the ground that it offends public policy of

 the State. But in a country where gambling is

 legalized in some form, the award will not offend

 public policy. Similarly, a dispute between a

 producer of wine and its distributor is arbitrable

 in countries which are not governed by a strict

 Islamic Code. But a country with such a Code may

 hold the award contrary to public policy. 45. In view of such varying standards of public policy

 in different countries, an attempt is made to arrive

 at a somewhat acceptable standard by construing that

 something is opposed to public policy where there is

 an excess of jurisdiction and a lack of due process.

 (See Redfern and Hunter on International

 Arbitration, 5th Edition, paragraphs 10-80 to 10-86). 22 46. The concept of public policy in ABC, 1996 as given

 in the explanation has virtually adopted the

 aforesaid international standard, namely if anything

 is found in excess of jurisdiction and depicts a

 lack of due process, it will be opposed to public

 policy of India. When an award is induced or

 affected by fraud or corruption, the same will fall

 within the aforesaid grounds of excess of

 jurisdiction and a lack of due process. Therefore,

 if we may say so, the explanation to Section 34 of

 ABC is like `a stable man in the saddle' on the

 unruly horse of public policy. 47. It is well known that fraud cannot be put in a

 strait jacket and it has a very wide connotation in

 legal parlance. 48. In the decision of the House of Lords in Frank

 Reddaway and Co. Ltd. vs. George Banham, 1896 Appeal

 Cases 199, Lord Macnaghten explained the

 multifarious aspects of fraud very lucidly, and

 which we quote: "But fraud is infinite in variety;

 sometimes it is audacious and unblushing; sometimes 23 it pays a sort of homage to virtue, and then it is

 modest and retiring; it would be honesty itself if

 it could only afford it. But fraud is fraud all the

 same; and it is the fraud, not the manner of it,

 which calls for the interposition of the Court."

 (Page 221 of the report). 49. The aforesaid elucidation by the learned Law Lord

 has also been accepted in celebrated treaties on

 fraud (see Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 7th Edition,

 pg. 1). Kerr has also referred to Story's Equity

 Jurisprudence and defined fraud as: "Fraud, in the

 contemplation of a civil court of justice, may be

 said to include properly all acts, omissions, and

 concealments which involve a breach of legal or

 equitable duty, trust or confidence, justly reposed,

 and are injurious to another, or by which an undue

 or unconscientious advantage is taken of another." 50. In Indian law, namely the Indian Contract Act , the

 said common law doctrine of fraud has been

 assimilated in Section 17 of the said Act. A very

 wide definition of fraud has been given, which is as

 under: 24 Explanation.-Mere silence as to
 facts likely to affect the willingness of
 a person to enter into a contract is not
 fraud, unless the circumstances of the
 case are such that, regard being had to
 them, it is the duty of the person
 keeping silence to speak, or unless his
 silence, is, in itself, equivalent to
 speech. 51. Therefore, this Court is unable to accept the

 contention of the learned counsel for the respondent

 that the expression `fraud in the making of the

 award' has to be narrowly construed. This Court

 cannot do so primarily because fraud being of

 `infinite variety' may take many forms, and

 secondly, the expression `the making of the award' 25 will have to be read in conjunction with whether the

 award `was induced or affected by fraud'. 52. On such conjoint reading, this Court is unable to

 accept the contentions of the learned counsel for

 the respondents that facts which surfaced subsequent

 to the making of the award, but have a nexus with

 the facts constituting the award, are not relevant

 to demonstrate that there has been fraud in the

 making of the award. Concealment of relevant and

 material facts, which should have been disclosed

 before the arbitrator, is an act of fraud. If the

 argument advanced by the learned counsel for the

 respondents is accepted, then a party, who has

 suffered an award against another party who has

 concealed facts and obtained an award, cannot rely

 on facts which have surfaced subsequently even if

 those facts have a bearing on the facts constituting

 the award. Concealed facts in the very nature of

 things surface subsequently. Such a construction

 would defeat the principle of due process and would

 be opposed to the concept of public policy

 incorporated in the explanation. 26 53. In English Arbitration Law, a somewhat similar

 provision for challenging an award is contained in Section 68(2)(g) of the 1996 Arbitration Act , which

 reads as follows: 54. Commenting on the said provision, Russell (Russell

 on Arbitration, 23rd Edition) stated that an "award

 will be obtained by fraud if the consequence of

 deliberate concealment is an award in favour of the

 concealing party." (P. 497, Para 8-100) 55. In Elektrim S.A. vs. Vivendi Universal S.A. and Ors. (2007) EWHC 11 (Comm), Mr. Justice Aikens held that

 the words `obtained by fraud' must refer to an award

 being obtained by the fraud of the party to the

 arbitration or by the fraud of another to which the

 party to the arbitration was a privy. The learned

 Judge at page 82 of the report held that "an award

 will only be obtained by fraud if the party which

 has deliberately concealed the document has, as a

 consequence of that concealment, obtained an award 27 in its favour. The party relying on Section 68(2)(g) must therefore also prove a causative link between

 the deliberate concealment of the document and a

 decision in the award in favour of the other

 successful party." 56. In Profilati Italia S.R.L. vs. Painewebber Inc. and

 Anr. [(2001) 1 Lloyd's Law Reports 715], while

 construing Section 68(2)(g) of the English

 Arbitration Act, it has been held that where an

 important document which should have been disclosed

 has been deliberately withheld resulting in the

 party withholding obtaining the award, the Court may

 consider that the award was `procured' in a manner

 contrary to public policy and such conduct is not

 far removed from fraud. (para 19, pg. 720) 57. This Court also holds that the facts concealed must

 have a causative link. And if the concealed facts,

 disclosed after the passing of the award, have a

 causative link with the facts constituting or

 inducing the award, such facts are relevant in a

 setting aside proceeding and award may be set aside

 as affected or induced by fraud. 28 58. The question in this case, is therefore one of

 relevance of the materials which the appellant wants

 to bring on record by way of amendment in its plea

 for setting aside the award. 59. Whether the award will be set aside or not is a

 different question and that has to be decided by the

 appropriate Court. In this appeal, this Court is

 concerned only with the question whether by allowing

 the amendment, as prayed for by the appellant, the

 Court will allow material facts to be brought on

 record in the pending setting aside proceeding. 60. Judging the case from this angle, this Court is of

 the opinion that in the interest of justice and

 considering the fairness of procedure, the Court

 should allow the appellant to bring those materials

 on record as those materials are not wholly

 irrelevant or they may have a bearing on the

 appellant's plea for setting aside the award. 61. Nothing said in this judgment will be construed as

 even remotely expressing any opinion on the legality 29 of the award. That question will be decided by the

 Court where setting aside proceeding is pending.

 The proceeding for setting aside the award may be

 disposed of as early as possible, preferably within

 4 months. 62. For the reasons aforesaid, this appeal succeeds. The

 order of the High Court is set aside and that of the

 court below is restored. No order as to costs. .....................J.
 (P. SATHASIVAM)

 .....................J.
 (ASOK KUMAR GANGULY)

New Delhi
August 11, 2010 30