Judicial Magistrates may face contempt and departmental enquiry upon failure to abide by certain instructions while remanding accused in cases of social media comments or posts, warned the Andhra Pradesh High Court (HC). In a circular issued on July 5, 2025, the Court directed that magistrates should adhere to the Supreme Court’s (SC) observations made in the cases of Imran Pratap Gandhi and Arnesh Kumar.

As stipulated in the Imran Pratap Gadhi vs State of Gujarat case, the police authorities should conduct a preliminary enquiry within 14 days after receiving approval from the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) under Section 173(3) of the Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS), 2023. The investigating officer should follow this regulation before registering an FIR in cases concerning speech, writing, or artistic expression, where the offences carry a penalty of imprisonment of three to seven years.

For context , in this case, the SC quashed an FIR against Congress MP Imran Pratapgarhi over a poem he posted on social media, emphasising that free speech is a “fundamental aspect of human dignity”.

Additionally, in the Arnesh Kumar case, the apex court stipulated guidelines for the arrest of the accused in non-cognisable offences punishable with a maximum of seven years imprisonment. The police should furnish the reasons necessitating an accused’s arrest before the magistrate while seeking detention, and should communicate any decision withholding arrest to the magistrate within two weeks of the case’s commencement, among other directions.

Accordingly, the circular prescribed that Judicial Magistrates should ensure that the authorities comply with the norms above before ordering a remand. For context , a remand is an order transferring the accused back to the competent authority’s custody to await trial. Before ordering remand, magistrates should convince themselves that the accused had committed repeated and multiple offences and that, without such an order, they might influence witnesses or tamper with evidence required during a custodial investigation.

The notification comes against the backdrop of a police complaint filed by members of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) over derogatory social media posts by activists and members of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and its National Democratic Alliance (NDA) against the YSRCP President, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Notably, this action followed leaders of the ruling NDA filing complaints against social media activists favouring the Reddy-led party. In a press conference, Reddy alleged a smear campaign against YSRCP’s social media supporters by NDA members who reportedly filed over 86 false cases within three days in November 2024, as per South First.

In a different vein, the authorities have registered multiple FIRs against individuals for social media comments and/or posts in the backdrop of the Pahalgam terrorist attack. For instance, a complaint was filed against Lucknow University Professor Dr. Madri Kakoti (Dr. Medusa) for posting a video alleging that the terrorists involved in the attack were taking advantage of the divide between Indian Hindus and Muslims. Later, the Pune Police arrested a university student for uploading an Instagram post about Operation Sindoor. Notably, the two accused were arrested for violating several sections of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), 2023, including Section 353 which deals with the inducement of public mischief. Similarly, authorities took action against an Ashoka University Professor over a social media post about Operation Sindoor that allegedly disparaged women officers in the Indian Armed Forces.

Overall, the Andhra Pradesh HC’s directive underscores the judicial oversight in politically sensitive cases involving social media speech. Further, while it prevents authorities from registering slews of FIRs, its impact on curbing misuse of law to target dissent is not certain yet.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event