The Indian government doesn’t want to ban flash sales, but is against predatory pricing and violation of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) norms by e-commerce platforms, both of which the government will address with the upcoming e-commerce policy, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal hinted at the Enabling Bharat 2.0 event held on April 25.

“That was a mistaken understanding. Why should I complain if somebody wants to give a discount? The word flash sales, and I acknowledge it was a mistake of my department, was never intended to be against discount sales or against any of these Diwali dhamakas or any of that. Consumers are getting a good deal, we have no problem.” — Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal

Goyal’s comments appear to be in relation to the proposed amendments to the e-commerce rules that were announced first in September 2021 and called for a prohibition of flash sales, which were defined as sales “organized by an e-commerce entity at significantly reduced prices, high discounts or any other such promotions or attractive offers for a predetermined period of time on selective goods and services or otherwise with an intent to draw a large number of consumers.”

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with the top stories of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Why does this matter: As pointed out by many at the time, the proposed ban on flash sales was too ambiguous , unreasonable , and not in the interest of consumers . The clarification by the Consumer Affairs Minister should offer some relief to platforms, consumers, and sellers, as platforms and sellers can continue to use flash sales like Amazon’s Great Indian Festival and Flipkart’s Big Billion Days to attract customers to shop online, and consumers can benefit from steep discounts.

What the government is against: Goyal explained that the government is going after:

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event