SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: NFT/Crypto Scam
DATE: 2023-08-14
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15qdvoi/nftcrypto_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys,
I wanted to share an experience I had recently. My wife is an amateur photographer and does it as a hobby (travel, food, the usual). So one day she was approached by one of her followers on Insta. She offered to purchase her photography at 1.5 ETH each. 
Seemed too good to be true as that’s a lot of money. But we thought maybe they see value in what we don’t. 
The catch was, we gotta sell the art as NFT. So I started reading up, spent some time reading and understanding about it. 

Finally setup an account on Metamask for Ethereum wallet. To upload art, there are multiple marketplaces. So she asks she wants us to upload on a different marketplace than I decided on. The site looked legit at first. So I uploaded it there as asked.
Now to make it NFT and to make it available to sell, you need to pay a “gas fees” (look it up). So I started the process and bought INR 32k worth of Ethereum (0.0018 ETH) to pay gas fees for multiple art that I wanted to sell. Gotta pay each separately.

Once I added the balance to wallet, I went to marketplace to sign the NFT and pay. The gas fee calculator got stuck and keep loading. I thought it will eventually work and so I left it at that. The woman reached out and said, the wallet address where you would be paying for it has been changed so transfer the Ethereum to the wallet I am sending.
I said I’ll wait for an official mail from the site if the address has changed. Then she started pressing and tried to create a fake urgency to make us panic pay the amount. 
Then in 1 hour, she sends a mail from gmail with a wallet address saying we are from this marketplace and send the fees via this wallet address. 
She was trying to make us pay fast to make us avoid looking at the red flags. It suddenly caught my eye that it’s from a gmail account, not official. 
So we denies paying her the Ethereum and she threw all kinds of tantrums at us why she avoids dealing with Indian people as we always create problems. 

Anyway now I am stuck with 32k worth of ETH in my wallet and not sure how to send it back to bank account. 
Just wanted to share and wanted everyone to be aware and careful.
There is a saying, if something is too good to be true, it is. Or there is a catch.

Edit: I got my money back today via Onramp. But they also charge some gas fees and tds etc. But at least got it back. 

Peace ✌🏻