- 1) Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally. 2) By this Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of

India, the Petitioner takes exception to the judgment and order

dated 29th June, 2020, passed by the learned Presiding Officer,

School Tribunal, Mumbai, in Appeal No. 27 of 2019, whereby and

whereunder the Appeal preferred by the respondent No. 1 came 1/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

to be allowed by setting aside the order of dismissal from service

dated 14th September, 2019 with direction to reinstate the

respondent No. 1 and pay backwages to the extent of 60%. 3) Shorn of superfluities, background facts necessary for the

determination of this Petition can be stated as under:- Attention of the Court was invited to an affidavit filed on behalf of

the respondent No. 1 seeking an amendment in the Appeal Memo

so as to incorporate the prayer of reinstatement in service. In the

said affidavit, a categorical statement was made that, after

passing of the impugned order, the respondent No. 1 had not

been serving elsewhere and earning therefrom. In the affidavit-

in-reply to the said application, it was denied by the petitioner

that the respondent No. 1 was not serving elsewhere. Therefore,

the petitioner can not be permitted to take advantage of a stray

observation in the impugned judgment that there was no

affidavit of respondent No. 1 not being gainfully employed, which

is not factually correct. 10) In view of the aforesaid submissions, whether a case to

interfere with the impugned judgment and order in exercise of

extraordinary writ jurisdiction is made out is required to be

considered in two parts. First, the grievance of the petitioner that

having found the inquiry to be vitiated the School Tribunal ought

to have either provided an opportunity to the petitioner to hold a

fresh inquiry or itself conducted the inquiry. 6/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC 11) In order to appreciate the aforesaid contention in a proper

perspective, it may be apposite to extract the observations of the

learned Presiding Officer, which bear upon the nature of the

inquiry and the infirmities therein. 12) In fairness to Mr. Patel, it must be observed that Mr. Patel

did not make a serious endeavor to assail the aforesaid findings

of the learned Presiding Officer. The infirmities and infractions

which the learned Presiding Officer has highlighted in the

observations, extracted above, speak for themselves. It would be

difficult to urge that the learned Presiding Officer was not

justified in recording a scathing observation that the inquiry was

vitiated at every stage since inception till conclusion. Having

recorded such a finding, the learned Presiding Officer came to

the conclusion that there was no good cause to remand the

inquiry to the management and give a second chance. 8/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC 13) Whether the aforesaid approach of the learned Presiding

Officer is justifiable? Mr. Patel urged that it is well neigh settled

that where the inquiry is vitiated on account of the breach of

governing rules or principles of natural justice, a direction to

hold de novo inquiry ought to be given. The learned Presiding

Officer, in the case at hand, did not adhere to the said discipline. 14) It is trite that ordinarily when a Court or Tribunal records a

finding that inquiry was vitiated on account of breach of the

procedure prescribed for holding the inquiry or principles of

natural justice were infringed, an opportunity is given to the

employer to hold a fresh inquiry from the stage at which there

was breach of the rules or principles of natural justice. This,

however, does not seem to be an immutable rule of law to be

applied in every case, even where the Court or Tribunal finds

that the employee has been treated unfairly and the entire

proceeding betrays an intent to get rid of the employee at any

cost. 15) A useful reference in this context can be made to a

judgment of this Court in the case of Bhagwanrao s/o

Vishwanath Vyawhare and Another Vs. Sau. Sunita w/o

Gopinath Palve and Another1. In the said case, in the context of

1 2008 (1) Mh. L.J. 417 9/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

allegations that there was violation of Rules 36, 37 and 38, while

upholding the order of the School Tribunal, this Court observed

that after subjecting the respondent No. 1 (employee) to the

rigmarole of a full fledged inquiry for a period of 10 months, it

would not be just and proper to relegate the matter to

management for holding a fresh inquiry. The manner in which

the petitioners had proceeded against the respondent No. 1 did

not inspire confidence and, therefore, the contention on behalf of

the respondent No. 1 that the petitioners were bent upon to

remove the respondent No. 1 by hook or crook appeared to be

well founded. In paragraph No. 10 of the said judgment, the

Court concluded as under:- 16) The aforesaid pronouncement was followed by another

Single Judge of this Court in the case of Rajashri Shahu 10/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

Chhatrapati Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur and Another Vs.

Mangala w/o Rajesh Mankar and Others 2. Observations in

Paragraph Nos. 21 and 22 are material and thus extracted

below:- 2 2019 SCC Online Bom 1196 11/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

 the respondent No.1, but giving a premium to such
 malicious and biased actions of the petitioner No.1-
 Management. Therefore, it cannot lie in the mouth of the
 petitioner No.1-Management that permission for holding
 de novo enquiry was required to be given in the present
 case...." (emphasis supplied) 17) It the facts of the case at hand are appraised on the

touchstone of the aforesaid principles, especially in the context of

the findings of the learned Presiding Officer, School Tribunal,

that there was infringement of the MEPS Rules and principles of

natural justice at every stage of the inquiry, an inference

becomes inescapable that the inquiry stood vitiated in all facets,

right from the service of the chargesheet to composition of

Inquiry Committee, to the cross examination of the respondent

No. 1 merely on the strength of defence statement without the

respondent No. 1 having entered into the witness box and placing

reliance on the admissions allegedly elicited in such cross-

examination, to the denial of the opportunity to the nominee of

the appellant to record his findings. 18) In the aforesaid view of the matter, I am persuaded to hold

that the School Tribunal was justified in foreclosing the option to

conduct a fresh inquiry in conformity with the Rules. Element of

objectivity was completely lost in the disciplinary proceedings

and an animus to get rid of the respondent No. 1 was borne out 12/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

by the manner in which the said proceedings was conducted,

especially in the context of the gravamen of indictment which is

essentially the perceived insubordination. 19) On the issue of grant of 60% backwages, Mr. Patel would

urge that the School Tribunal after having noted the party on

whom onus lay and absence of evidence to show that the

respondent No. 1 was not gainfully employed, could not have

awarded backwages. A very strong reliance was placed by Mr.

Patel on the pronouncement of Supreme Court in the case of Deepali Gundu Surwase Vs. Kranti Junior Adhyapak

Mahavidyalaya (D.ED .) And Others3. 20) In the case of Deepali (supra) a two Judge Bench of the

Supreme Court had, after reviewing the earlier precedents

including the judgments of the Supreme Court in the cases of Hindustan Tin Works (P) Ltd. Vs. Employees 4, and Surendra

Kumar Verma Vs. Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour

Court5 , the three Judge Bench judgments, had laid down the

following principles:- 3 (2013) 10 SCC 324
4 (1979) 2 SCC 80
5 (1980) 4 SCC 443 13/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

 in the same position in which he would have been but for
 the illegal action taken by the employer. The injury suffered
 by a person, who is dismissed or removed or is otherwise
 terminated from service cannot easily be measured in terms
 of money. With the passing of an order which has the effect
 of severing the employer employee relationship, the latter's
 source of income gets dried up. Not only the concerned
 employee, but his entire family suffers grave adversities.
 They are deprived of the source of sustenance. The children
 are deprived of nutritious food and all opportunities of
 education and advancement in life. At times, the family has
 to borrow from the relatives and other acquaintance to avoid
 starvation. These sufferings continue till the competent
 adjudicatory forum decides on the legality of the action
 taken by the employer. The reinstatement of such an
 employee, which is preceded by a finding of the competent
 judicial/quasi judicial body or Court that the action taken
 by the employer is ultra vires the relevant statutory
 provisions or the principles of natural justice, entitles the
 employee to claim full backwages. If the employer wants to
 deny back wages to the employee or contest his entitlement
 to get consequential benefits, then it is for him/her to
 specifically plead and prove that during the intervening
 period the employee was gainfully employed and was getting
 the same emoluments. Denial of back wages to an employee,
 who has suffered due to an illegal act of the employer would
 amount to indirectly punishing the concerned employee and
 rewarding the employer by relieving him of the obligation to
 pay back wages including the emoluments. ............... 38. The propositions which can be culled out from the
 aforementioned judgments are: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

 38.3 Ordinarily, an employee or workman whose services
 are terminated and who is desirous of getting back wages is
 required to either plead or at least make a statement before
 the adjudicating authority or the Court of first instance that
 he/she was not gainfully employed or was employed on
 lesser wages. If the employer wants to avoid payment of full
 back wages, then it has to plead and also lead cogent
 evidence to prove that the employee/workman was gainfully
 employed and was getting wages equal to the wages he/she
 was drawing prior to the termination of service. This is so
 because it is settled law that the burden of proof of the
 existence of a particular fact lies on the person who makes a
 positive averments about its existence. It is always easier to
 prove a positive fact than to prove a negative fact. Therefore,
 once the employee shows that he was not employed, the
 onus lies on the employer to specifically plead and prove
 that the employee was gainfully employed and was getting
 the same or substantially similar emoluments.
 38.4 The cases in which the Labour Court/Industrial
 Tribunal exercises power under Section 11-A of the
 Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and finds that even though
 the enquiry held against the employee/workman is
 consistent with the rules of natural justice and / or certified
 standing orders, if any, but holds that the punishment was
 disproportionate to the misconduct found proved, then it
 will have the discretion not to award full back wages.
 However, if the Labour Court/Industrial Tribunal finds that
 the employee or workman is not at all guilty of any
 misconduct or that the employer had foisted a false charge,
 then there will be ample justification for award of full back
 wages. 38.5 The cases in which the competent Court or Tribunal
 finds that the employer has acted in gross violation of the
 statutory provisions and/or the principles of natural justice
 or is guilty of victimizing the employee or workman, then the
 concerned Court or Tribunal will be fully justified in
 directing payment of full back wages. In such cases, the
 superior Courts should not exercise power under Article 226 or 136 of the Constitution and interfere with the award
 passed by the Labour Court, etc., merely because there is a
 possibility of forming a different opinion on the entitlement
 of the employee/workman to get full back wages or the
 employer's obligation to pay the same. The Courts must 15/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

 always be kept in view that in the cases of wrongful / illegal
 termination of service, the wrongdoer is the employer and
 sufferer is the employee/workman and there is no
 justification to give premium to the employer of his
 wrongdoings by relieving him of the burden to pay to the
 employee/workman his dues in the form of full back wages.
 38.6 In a number of cases, the superior Courts have
 interfered with the award of the primary adjudicatory
 authority on the premise that finalization of litigation has
 taken long time ignoring that in majority of cases the
 parties are not responsible for such delays. Lack of
 infrastructure and manpower is the principal cause for
 delay in the disposal of cases. For this the litigants cannot
 be blamed or penalised. It would amount to grave injustice
 to an employee or workman if he is denied back wages
 simply because there is long lapse of time between the
 termination of his service and finality given to the order of
 reinstatement. The Courts should bear in mind that in most
 of these cases, the employer is in an advantageous position
 vis-à-vis the employee or workman. He can avail the services
 of best legal brain for prolonging the agony of the sufferer,
 i.e., the employee or workman, who can ill afford the luxury
 of spending money on a lawyer with certain amount of fame.
 Therefore, in such cases it would be prudent to adopt the
 course suggested in Hindustan Tin Works (P) Ltd. Vs.
 Employees of Hindustan Tin Works Private Limited (supra). 38.7 The observation made in J.K. Synthetics Ltd V. K.P.
 Agrawal (supra) that on reinstatement the
 employee/workman cannot claim continuity of service as of
 right is contrary to the ratio of the judgments of three Judge
 Benches referred to hereinabove and cannot be treated as
 good law. This part of the judgment is also against the very
 concept of reinstatement of an employee/workman...." (emphasis supplied) 21) The aforesaid principles have been followed as laying down

the correct criteria for determination of the issue of grant of

backwages where termination has been held to be illegal. It 16/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

would be superfluous to note the judgments which have followed

the line in the case of Deepali (supra). It would be suffice to make

a profitable reference to a recent pronouncement of the Supreme

Court in the case of Pradeep s/o Rajkumar Jain Vs. Manganese

Ore (India) Limited and Others6 , wherein the Supreme Court

considered two lines of the decisions. The first, which follows the

Three Judge Bench judgment in the case of Hindustan Tin Works (supra) and, the second, represented by the view adopted by the

Supreme Court in the case of Talwara Coop. Credit and Service

Society Ltd Vs. Sushil Kumar7 , wherein reference was made to

the provisions contained in Section 106 of the Evidence Act to

cast burden on the workman to show that she was neither

gainfully employed nor generated income. After analyzing the

aforesaid two lines of decisions, the Supreme Court in the case of

Pradeep (supra) expounded the legal position as under:- (emphasis supplied) 22) The aforesaid pronouncement indicates that the nature of

the action which visited the employee with the consequence of

termination must enter the arena of determination as to

entitlement of backwages. If the Court comes to a conclusion

that the action of termination, which was found to be illegal, was

actuated by malice or ill-will, as distinguished from a bona fide

persuit of disciplining an employee, it would be unfair to deny the

employee fruits of employment which he would have enjoyed but

for the illegal/malafide termination. In such a case, the nature

of the charges, the reason for the termination as well as the

aspect as to whether the employee was gainfully employed would

be the factors influencing the decision. 23) Applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the case at

hand, first and foremost, it is pertinent to note that the premise

of the petitioner that there was no assertion by employee that

post termination order she was not serving elsewhere and did not

generate any income is not factually correct. Not only the 18/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

application to amend the Appeal Memo clearly records the said

fact but the petitioner, in its reply, had also controverted the

same. 24) Secondly, in the light of the propositions enunciated in the

case of Deepali (supra), the onus on the employee, which is in a

sense negative one, would stand discharged once a positive

assertion is made by the employee that she was not gainfully

employed or was employed on a lesser wages. Then if the

employer wants to avoid the backwages, it is incumbent on the

employer to plead and also lead cogent evidence to the contrary.

In the case at hand, the petitioner does not profess to have led

such evidence to the contrary. 25) Thirdly, the nature of the employment also assumes

significance. An Assistant Teacher after having rendered more

than 15 years of service, would not be in a position to get an

alternate employment easily. Mr. Patel, attempted to salvage the

position by canvassing a submission that the respondent No. 1

could have rendered tutions. This submission does not fully

comprehend the practicability and realities of life. 26) In any event, the learned Presiding Officer, School Tribunal

has taken into account the then prevailing circumstances, 19/20 ::: Uploaded on - 17/03/2023 ::: Downloaded on - 18/03/2023 01:49:11 ::: 22-WPL-2392-22.DOC

including the situation brought about by COVID-19 Pandemic,

and scaled down the backwages to 60%. I do not find any reason

to interfere with the exercise of judicious discretion by the School

Tribunal. 27) Resultantly, the Petition fails on both the counts.