( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. Appeal No. 304 of 2015. . Reserved on: 23.07.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge. The present appeal is directed against the judgment

 of conviction dated 29.05.2015 and order of sentence dated

 03.07.2015, passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge III,

 Kangra, at Dharamshala, Camp at Baijnath, District Kangra,

 Himachal Pradesh (learned Trial Court) (Parties shall hereinafter

 be referred to in the same manner as they were arrayed before the

 learned Trial Court for convenience.) 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. ( 2025:HHC:25967 ) 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

 appeal are that the police presented a challan against the

 . accused for the commission of offences punishable under

 Sections 498A and 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal

 Code ( IPC ). It was asserted that Lachman Dass (PW1) had one

 daughter, Rama Devi (since deceased), and one son, Rakesh

 Kumar (PW2). The marriage of Rama Devi was solemnised with

 accused Gurcharan Singh as per Hindu Rites and Customs on

 30.11.2007. One child was born to Rama Devi and the accused

 Gurcharan Singh. The accused Gurcharan and his mother, Ishro

 Devi, treated her properly for about two years, but they started

 harassing her subsequently. Rama Devi visited her parental

 home 15 days before her death and disclosed that her husband

 and her mother-in-law were harassing her and not permitting

 her to call her parents. She left her parental home after 2-3 days. Sakeena Devi (PW3) told the informant, Lachman Das (PW1), on

 14.04.2010 at about 12:30 pm, that Rama Devi had expired. The

 informant and other relatives went to the matrimonial home of

 Rama Devi, where they were told that Rama Devi had committed

 suicide by hanging herself. An intimation was given to the

 police, and an entry No.26(A) (Ex-PA) was recorded in the Police ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 3 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 Station. SI Inder Singh (PW12), HHC Amarjeet Singh (PW7), LC

 Prita Devi, HHC Ranjit Singh and HHC Desh Raj went to the spot

 . for verification. Lachman Dass (PW1) made a statement (Ex- PW1/A) to the police, which was sent to the Police Station where

 FIR (Ex-PW1/B) was registered. The photographs of the spot

 (Ex-P1 to P7) were taken. SI Inder Singh (PW12) conducted the

 investigation. He prepared the spot map (Ex-PW12/B). He

 conducted the inquest on the dead body and prepared the report

 (Ex-PW12/C). He filed an application(Ex-PW9/A) for conducting

 the postmortem examination of deceased Rama Devi. Dr. Mohit

 Sharma (PW9) conducted the postmortem examination and

 found that the cause of death was asphyxia by antemortem

 hanging. SI Inder Singh (PW12) found a suicide note written on

 the left arm of the deceased. A plastic rope (Ex-P8) was found,

 which was taken into possession vide memo (Ex-PW2/A). The

 rope was put in a cloth parcel, and the parcel was sealed with 06

 seals of seal "T". Its seal impression (Ex-PW2/B) was taken on a

 separate piece of cloth, and the seal was handed over to Ajay

 Sharma after use. Rakesh Kumar (PW2) produced the admitted

 handwriting of the deceased (Ex-PW2/C), which was seized vide

 seizure memo (Ex-PW2/D). The questioned handwriting ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 4 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 contained in the photographs (Ex-P1 to P7) was sent to RFSL,

 Dharamshala, for comparison. A report (Ex-PB) was issued

 . stating that the disputed handwriting matched the admitted

 handwriting of the deceased. No poison/alcohol was found in the

 viscera sent to RFSL, Dharamshala, and a report (Ex-PW9/C)

 was issued to this effect. As per report (Ex-PW9/D), the plastic

 rope could easily bear the weight of an average adult human

 being. The statements of witnesses were recorded as per their

 version, and after the completion of the investigation, the

 challan was prepared and presented before the Court of learned

 Judicial Magistrate First Class -I, Palampur, District Kangra,

 H.P., who committed it to the learned Sessions Judge, Kangra, at

 Dharamshala. Learned Sessions Judge, Kangra, at Dharamshala

 assigned the matter to learned Additional Sessions Judge - 3,

 Kangra, at Dharamshala (learned Trial Court) for trial. 3. The learned Trial Court charged the accused with the

 commission of offences punishable under Sections 498A and 306 read with Section 34 of the IPC, to which the accused

 pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. ( 2025:HHC:25967 ) 4. The prosecution examined 12 witnesses to prove its

 case. Lachhman Dass (PW1) is the father, Rakesh Kumar (PW2)

 . is the brother, and Sakeena (PW3) is the sister-in-law of

 deceased Rama Devi. Udho Ram (PW4) is the witness of the

 recovery of the admitted handwriting. Ajay Sharma (PW5) is the

 witness to the recovery of the rope. Constable Suresh Kumar

 (PW6) carried samples to RFSL, Dharamshala vide RC No.69/21. HHC Amarjeet Singh (PW7) carried the sample to RFSL, Mandi

 vide RC No. 65/21. Puni Chand No.133 (PW8) was working as

 MHC with whom the case property was deposited. Dr. Mohit

 Sharma (PW9) conducted the postmortem examination of

 deceased Rama Devi. Inspector Joginder Singh (PW10) prepared

 the challan. Ajay Kumar (PW11) took the photographs. SI Inder

 Singh, SHO (PW12), conducted the investigation. 5. The accused, in their statements recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., admitted the relationship between them

 and Rama Devi. They stated that they were innocent and were

 falsely implicated. No evidence was produced by the accused. 6. The learned Trial Court held that the testimony of the

 informant, his son and his daughter-in-law established that the ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 6 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 deceased was being subjected to harassment in her matrimonial

 home. This was also corroborated by the suicide note written by

 . her on her left hand. The handwriting on the suicide note

 matched the admitted handwriting. Rama Devi committed

 suicide within 2½ years of her marriage, and the presumption

 under Section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act would arise. No

 evidence was led by the accused to rebut this presumption; therefore, the learned Trial Court convicted the accused, Ishro

 Devi, for the commission of offences punishable under Sections

 498A and 306 of the IPC and sentenced her as under:- 7. Being aggrieved by the judgment and order passed by

 the learned Trial Court, the accused has filed the present appeal,

 . asserting that the learned Trial Court failed to appreciate that

 Rama Devi and her husband Ashwani Kumar (sic) were residing

 happily. She never made any complaint to any person regarding

 the harassment. No dowry was demanded by the accused at the

 time of her marriage. No reason for maltreatment was assigned

 by the prosecution witnesses. The neighbours and Pradhan did

 not state about any complaint made by Rama Devi during her

 lifetime. The statements made by the witnesses were vague, and

 they did not mention any time, date or specific demand. Therefore, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and

 the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court be set

 aside. 8. I have heard M/s. Dushyant Dadwal & Shashwat

 Dadwal, learned counsel for the appellant, and Mr Jitender

 Sharma, learned Additional Advocate General, for the

 respondent-State. 9. Mr. Dushyant Dadwal, learned counsel for the

 appellant, submitted that the learned Trial Court erred in ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 8 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 convicting and sentencing the accused. The statements made by

 the witnesses were general in nature. No reason for the

 . harassment was given. It is highly unlikely that the deceased

 would have been sent to her matrimonial home after she had

 complained about the harassment to her family members. Learned Trial Court heavily relied upon the suicide note, but the

 same was not proved by examining the Handwriting Expert. Therefore, he prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the

 judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court be set

 aside. 10. Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

 General, for the respondent-State, submitted that the report

 submitted by the Handwriting Expert is per se admissible under Section 293 of Cr.PC, and there was no requirement to examine

 the Handwriting Expert. The witnesses consistently stated about

 the harassment. Even Ajay Sharma (PW5) who is Pradhan at the

 relevant time specifically stated that a complaint of harassment

 was made to him by complainant Lachhman Dass (PW1) during

 the lifetime of Rama Devi. The evidence on the record showed

 that the accused had treated the deceased with cruelty, and the ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 9 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 deceased had no other option but to commit suicide; hence, he

 prayed that the present appeal be dismissed. . 11. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 12. Learned Trial Court heavily relied upon the suicide

 note stated to have been written by the deceased on her left

 hand, to hold that the accused Ishro Devi was responsible for her

 death. This suicide note was sent to RFSL, Dharamshala, for

 comparison with the admitted handwriting of the deceased. The

 report (Ex-PB) was issued. However, the Handwriting Expert

 was not examined to prove the report. It was submitted on

 behalf of the State that the report is per se admissible under Section 293 of the Cr.PC. This submission is not correct. It was

 laid down by this Court in State of Himachal Pradesh versus Anoop

 Kumar 2008 (1) ShimLC 71 that the opinion of a handwriting

 expert is required to be proved in accordance with the law. It

 was observed:- 13. Thus, no reliance can be placed upon the report of the

 Handwriting Analyst without his examination, and the learned

 Trial Court erred in relying upon the report to record the

 conviction. 14. The statement (Ex-PW1/A) reads that the deceased

 visited her parental home 15 days before her death and revealed

 that her mother-in-law and husband did not permit her to call

 her parental home, and she was being threatened. She left her

 matrimonial home after 2-3 days. Subsequently, she committed

 suicide. 15. It is apparent from these allegations that they are

 highly vague. They do not mention as to when the deceased was

 threatened and by whom. A general statement was made that

 her mother-in-law and husband did not permit her to call her ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 11 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 parental home. Even the police did not collect any call detail

 records to substantiate this version. It was laid down by the

 . Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC

 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 2009 SCC OnLine SC 1693 that the

 Court has to see that particulars of the offences committed by

 every accused and the role played by the accused in committing

 the offence are given in the complaint made to the police. It was

 observed: - r
 "9. To lodge a proper complaint, the mere mention of the

 sections and the language of those sections is not the be-all
 and end-all of the matter. What is required to be brought to
 the notice of the court is the particulars of the offence
 committed by each and every accused and the role played by

 each and every accused in committing that offence. 10. When we see the complaint, the complaint is sadly

 vague. It does not show as to which accused has
 committed what offence, and what is the exact role

 played by these appellants is in the commission of the
 offence. There could be said that something is against
 Rajesh, as the allegations are made against him more

 precisely, but he is no more and has already expired.
 Under such circumstances, it would be an abuse of the
 process of law to allow the prosecution to continue
 against the aged parents of Rajesh, the present appellants
 herein, on the basis of a vague and general complaint
 which is silent about the precise acts of the appellants."
 (Emphasis supplied) 16. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

 SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 12 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

 unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

 . was observed: 17. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024

 SCC OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face

 criminal allegations without any specific instance of criminal

 misconduct amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It

 was observed: "18. The plain reading of the FIR and the chargesheet
 papers indicates that the allegations levelled by the First
 Informant are quite vague, general and sweeping,
 specifying no instances of criminal conduct. It is also
 pertinent to note that in the FIR, no specific date or time
 of the alleged offence/offences has been disclosed. Even
 the police thought it fit to drop the proceedings against
 the other members of the Appellants' family. Thus, we are
 of the view that the FIR lodged by Respondent No. 2 was ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 14 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 nothing but a counterblast to the divorce petition & also
 the domestic violence case. 25. If a person is made to face a criminal trial on some

 . general and sweeping allegations without bringing on record

 any specific instances of criminal conduct, it is nothing but an
 abuse of the process of the court. The court owes a duty to
 subject the allegations levelled in the complaint to thorough

 scrutiny to find out, prima facie, whether there is any grain of
 truth in the allegations or whether they are made only with
 the sole object of involving certain individuals in a criminal
 charge, more particularly when a prosecution arises from a

 matrimonial dispute." (Emphasis supplied) 18. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

 parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

 molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

 does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 19. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P., 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 16 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 phenomenon of false implication by a general omnibus

 allegation in the case of a matrimonial dispute is not unknown

 . to the Court. When the allegations are general and omnibus, the

 prosecution should not be continued. It was observed: - 20. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

 OnLine SC 2621, that general and vague allegations of cruelty

 made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

 constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where
 the complainant's brother accompanied her to the
 matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are

 alleged to have refused to take her back, but on
 persuasion by her brother, she was allowed to stay. There
 is also a vague allegation that, when the complainant
 gave birth to a second child, appellants 1 and 2 came
 and "quarrelled" with the complainant, her brother, and
 her parents and threatened them. This Court had occasion
 to examine the phenomenon of general and omnibus
 allegations in the cases of matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: general and omnibus in nature; even if they are

 taken in their entirety, they do not prima facie
 make out a case against the Appellants. The
 material on record neither discloses any particulars

 of the offences alleged nor discloses the specific
 role/allegations assigned to any of the Appellants in
 the commission of the offences. 15. The phenomenon of false implication by way of

 general omnibus allegations in the course of
 matrimonial disputes is not unknown to this Court. In Kahkashan Kausar alias Sonam v. State of
 Bihar , this Court dealt with a similar case wherein

 the allegations made by the complainant-wife

 against her in-laws u/s. 498A and others were
 vague and general, lacking any specific role and
 particulars. The court proceeded to quash the FIR
 against the accused persons and noted that such a

 situation, if left unchecked, would result in the
 abuse of the process of law." xxxx
 13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,

 this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
 parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
 based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant

 portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants

 herein, i.e. none of the appellants has been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the
 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain

 the role played by each accused in furtherance of
 the offence. The allegations are, therefore, general
 and omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been
 made out on account of small skirmishes... However, as far as the appellants are concerned, the

 allegations made against them, being general and
 omnibus, do not warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced
 to go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general

 and omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a
 situation where the relatives of the complainant's
 husband are forced to undergo trial. It has been

 highlighted by this Court in varied instances that a
 criminal trial leading to an eventual acquittal also

 inflicts severe scars upon the accused, and such an
 exercise must, therefore, be discouraged." 21. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

 Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682,

 wherein it was observed: concrete and precise allegations. 22. This position was reiterated in Geddam Jhansi v. State

 of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263, wherein it was observed: ( 2025:HHC:25967 ) 23. Therefore, the allegations in the statements were

 insufficient to even summon the accused. . 24. The statements of the witnesses on oath are also

 vague. Lachhman Das (PW1) stated that his daughter told him

 many times about ill-treatment and torture by both the accused. He consoled her and sent her to her matrimonial home. Rakesh

 Kumar (PW2) stated that Rama Devi told him so many times

 regarding the ill-treatment and torture given by the accused. He

 consoled her and sent her to her matrimonial home. Sakeena

 (PW3) stated that Rama Devi was being tortured by the accused

 Gurcharan Singh and his mother. Rama Devi has told so many

 times about the ill-treatment and torture given by the accused

 persons. 25. Thus, it is apparent that no person has given the

 details of the harassment, and no conviction could have been

 recorded based on such vague and general statements. 26. Lachhman Dass (PW1) admitted that no dowry was

 demanded by the accused persons at the time of the marriage. Marriage was simple. Rakesh Kumar (PW2) also stated that no

 dowry or money was demanded by the accused. No condition ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 25 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 was imposed by the accused at the time of the marriage. It was a

 simple marriage. Sakeena (PW3) also admitted that no dowry or

 . any money was demanded by the accused. No condition was

 imposed, and marriage was simple. 27. No reason has been assigned by any of the witnesses

 as to why the accused would suddenly start demanding the

 dowry, when they had not demanded anything at the time of the

 marriage. Therefore, their statements regarding the harassment

 of the deceased could not have been relied upon. 28. Udho Ram (PW4) is the neighbour. He did not state

 anything about the harassment of the deceased. Ajay Sharma

 (PW5) stated that the informant came to him and told him that

 the accused were torturing and maltreating his daughter. He

 stated that he would go to the matrimonial home of the

 deceased. He admitted in his cross-examination that no

 complaint was made in writing. He did not go to the

 matrimonial home to verify the allegations. His statement

 shows that the same is hearsay and insufficient to convict the

 accused. ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 29 It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh Kumar versus the State of Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573 that

 . the prosecution is required to prove that the accused had created

 such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other

 option but to commit suicide. It was observed: Supreme Court is clear that to convict a

 person under Section 306 IPC, there has to be
 a clear mens rea to commit the offence. It also
 requires an active act or direct act which led

 the deceased to commit suicide, seeing no
 option, and that act must have been intended
 to push the deceased into such a position that
 he committed suicide." 18. This Court in M. Arjunan v. State [M. Arjunan v. State,
 (2019) 3 SCC 315: (2019) 2 SCC (Cri) 219], while explaining
 the necessary ingredients of Section 306 IPC in detail,
 observed as under : (SCC p. 317, para 7)

 "7. The essential ingredients of the offence under Section 306 IPC are (i) the abetment and (ii) the
 intention of the accused to aid or instigate or abet
 the deceased to commit suicide. The act of the

 accused, however, insulting the deceased by using
 abusive language, will not, by itself, constitute the
 abetment of suicide. There should be evidence

 capable of suggesting that the accused intended by
 such an act to instigate the deceased to commit

 suicide. Unless the ingredients of
 instigation/abetment to commit suicide are
 satisfied, the accused cannot be convicted under Section 306 IPC." 19. This Court in Ude Singh v. State of Haryana [Ude
 Singh v. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301: (2020) 3 SCC
 (Cri) 306], held that to convict an accused under Section
 306IPC, the state of mind to commit a particular crime
 must be visible with regard to determining the
 culpability. It was observed as under: (SCC pp. 321-22,
 para 16)
 "16. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there
 must be proof of direct or indirect acts (s) of ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 28 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 incitement to the commission of suicide. It could
 hardly be disputed that the question of the cause of
 suicide, particularly in the context of an offence of

 . abetment of suicide, remains a vexed one involving

 multifaceted and complex attributes of human
 behaviour and responses/reactions. In the case of
 an accusation of abetment of suicide, the court

 would be looking for cogent and convincing proof
 of the act(s) of incitement to the commission of
 suicide. In the case of suicide, a mere allegation of
 harassment of the deceased by another person

 would not suffice unless there be such action on the
 part of the accused which compels the person to
 commit suicide, and such an offending action ought
 to be proximate to the time of occurrence. Whether

 a person has abetted in the commission of suicide

 by another or not could only be gathered from the
 facts and circumstances of each case. 16.1. For the purpose of finding out if a person has
 abetted the commission of suicide by another, the

 consideration would be if the accused is guilty of
 the act of instigation of the act of suicide. As
 explained and reiterated by this Court in the

 decisions above referred, instigation means to
 goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to

 do an act. If the persons who committed suicide had
 been hypersensitive and the action of the accused is

 otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a
 similarly circumstanced person to commit suicide,
 it may not be safe to hold the accused guilty of
 abetment of suicide. But, on the other hand, if the
 accused, by his acts and by his continuous course of
 conduct, creates a situation which leads the
 deceased to perceive no other option except to
 commit suicide, the case may fall within the four
 corners of Section 306 IPC. If the accused plays an
 active role in tarnishing the self-esteem and self-
 respect of the victim, which eventually draws the ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 29 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 victim to commit suicide, the accused may be held
 guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of mens
 rea on the part of the accused in such cases would

 . be examined with reference to the actual acts and

 deeds of the accused and if the acts and deeds are
 only of such nature where the accused intended
 nothing more than harassment or snap show of

 anger, a particular case may fall short of the offence
 of abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept
 on irritating or annoying the deceased by words or
 deeds until the deceased reacted or was provoked, a

 particular case may be that of abetment of suicide.
 Such being the matter of delicate analysis of human
 behaviour, each case is required to be examined on
 its own facts while taking note of all the

 surrounding factors having bearing on the actions

 and psyche of the accused and the deceased." 20. This Court in Mariano Anto Bruno v. State [Mariano
 Anto Bruno v. State, (2023) 15 SCC 560: 2022 SCC OnLine SC
 1387], after referring to the above-referred decisions

 rendered in the context of culpability under Section 306 IPC, observed as under: (SCC para 45)

 "45. ... It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of
 alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof of

 direct or indirect acts of incitement to the
 commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of
 harassment without there being any positive action

 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of
 the accused which led or compelled the person to
 commit suicide, a conviction in terms of Section
 306 IPC is not sustainable." 21. This Court in Gurcharan Singh v. State of
 Punjab [Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2020) 10 SCC
 200: (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 417], observed that whenever a
 person instigates or intentionally aids by any act or illegal
 omission, the doing of a thing, a person can be said to
 have abetted in doing that thing. To prove the offence of
 abetment, as specified under Section 107IPC, the state of ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 30 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 mind to commit a particular crime must be visible to
 determine the culpability. 22. This Court in Kashibai v. State of Karnataka [Kashibai v. . State of Karnataka, (2023) 15 SCC 751: 2023 SCC OnLine SC

 575], observed that to bring the case within the purview of
 "abetment" under Section 107IPC, there has to be an
 evidence with regard to the instigation, conspiracy or

 intentional aid on the part of the accused and for the
 purpose proving the charge under Section 306IPC, also
 there has to be an evidence with regard to the positive act
 on the part of the accused to instigate or aid to drive a

 person to commit suicide. 23. Had there been any clinching evidence of incessant
 harassment on account of which the wife was left with no

 other option but to put an end to her life, it could have
 been said that the accused intended the consequences of

 his act, namely, suicide. A person intends a consequence
 when he (1) foresees that it will happen if the given series
 of acts or omissions continues and (2) desires it to happen. The most serious level of culpability, justifying the most
 serious levels of punishment, is achieved when both these
 components are actually present in the accused's mind (a

 "subjective" test). 24. For intention in English law, Section 8 of the Criminal

 Justice Act, 1967, provides the frame in which the mens
 rea is assessed. It states: ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 Under Section 8(b) , therefore, the jury is allowed wide
 latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intent or
 foresight on the basis of all the evidence. . 25. It is now well settled that in order to convict a person

 under Section 306 IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea to
 commit the offence. Mere harassment is not sufficient to
 hold an accused guilty of abetting the commission of

 suicide. It also requires an active act or direct act which
 led the deceased to commit suicide. The ingredient of
 mens rea cannot be assumed to be ostensibly present but
 has to be visible and conspicuous. 30. This position was reiterated in Patel Babubhai

 Manohardas and others vs State of Gujarat 2025 INSC 322, wherein

 it was observed: tion 309 IPC says that whoever attempts to commit sui- cide and does any act towards such an act shall be pun-
 ished with simple imprisonment for a term which may
 extend to one year or with a fine or with both. However,

 once suicide is carried out, the offence is complete. Con-
 sidering the nature of the offence, obviously, such a per- son would be beyond the reach of the law. Therefore, the
 question of penalising him would not arise, but whoever
 abets the commission of such suicide would be penalised

 under Section 306 IPC. The punishment prescribed under Section 306 IPC is imprisonment of either description for
 a term which may extend to 10 years, and shall also be li-
 able to a fine. What Section 306 IPC says is that if any per-
 son commits suicide, then whoever abets the commission
 of such suicide shall be punished as above. 16. Therefore, the crucial word in Section 306 IPC is
 'abets'. 'Abetment' is defined in Section 107 of the IPC. As
 per Section 107 IPC, a person would be abetting the doing
 of a thing if he instigates any person to do that thing, if he
 encourages one or more person or persons in any con- ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 spiracy for doing that thing or if he intentionally aids by
 any act or illegal omission in doing that thing. There are
 two explanations for Section 107 . As per Explanation 1,

 . even if a person, by way of wilful misrepresentation or

 concealment of a material fact which he is otherwise
 bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures or at-
 tempts to cause or procure a thing to be done, is said to

 instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2 clarifies
 that whoever does anything in order to facilitate the com-
 mission of an act, either prior to or at the time of the
 commission of the act, is said to aid in the doing of that

 act. 17. Section 114 IPC is an explanation or clarification of Section 107 IPC. What Section 114 IPC says is that when-
 ever any person is absent but was present when the act or

 offence for which he would be punishable in consequence

 of the abetment is committed, he shall be deemed to have
 committed such an act or offence and would be liable to
 be punished as an abettor. 18. In Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh (2001) 9 SCC

 618, this Court held that to 'instigate' means to goad,
 urge, provoke, incite or encourage to do 'an act'. To sat-
 isfy the requirement of 'instigation', it is not necessary

 that actual words must be used to that effect or that the
 words or act should necessarily and specifically be sug- gestive of the consequence. Where the accused, by his act
 or omission or by his continued course of conduct, creates
 a situation that the deceased is left with no other option

 except to commit suicide, then 'instigation' may be in-
 ferred. A word uttered in a fit of anger or emotion without
 intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be
 said to be 'instigation' 19. Elaborating further, this Court in Chitresh Kumar
 Chopra versus State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (2009) 16 SCC
 605 observed that to constitute 'instigation', a person
 who instigates another has to provoke, incite, urge or en-
 courage the doing of an act by the other by 'goading' or
 'urging forward'. This Court summed up the constituents
 of 'abetment' as under: deceased reacted or pushed or forced the deceased

 by his deeds, words or wilful omission or conduct to
 make the deceased move forward more quickly in a
 forward direction; and (ii) that the accused had the intention to provoke,
 urge or encourage the deceased to commit suicide
 while acting in the manner noted above. Undoubtedly, the presence of mens rea is the

 necessary concomitant of instigation. 20. Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu versus State of West Bengal (2010) 1 SCC 707 is a case where this Court held that in a
 case of alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof

 of direct or indirect act(s) of incitement to the

 commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of
 harassment without there being any positive action
 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of the
 accused which led or compelled the deceased to commit

 suicide, conviction in terms of Section 306 IPC would not
 be sustainable. A similar view has been expressed by this
 Court in the case of Ude Singh versus State of Haryana (2019) 17 SCC 301 21. After considering the provisions of Sections 306 and 107 of IPC, this Court in Rajesh versus State of Haryana (2020) 15 SCC 359 held that conviction under Section 306 IPC is not sustainable on the allegation of harassment

 without there being any positive action proximate to the
 time of occurrence on the part of the accused which led or
 compelled the person to commit suicide. 22. Abetment to commit suicide involves a mental process
 of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in
 the doing of a thing. Without a positive proximate act on
 the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing
 suicide, a conviction cannot be sustained. Besides, in
 order to convict a person under Section 306 IPC, there has
 to be a clear mens rea to commit the offence. ( 2025:HHC:25967 ) 23. This Court in Amudha versus State 2024 INSC 244 held
 that there has to be an act of incitement on the part of the
 accused proximate to the date on which the deceased

 . committed suicide. The act attributed should not only be

 proximate to the time of suicide but should also be of
 such a nature that the deceased was left with no alterna-
 tive but to take the drastic step of committing suicide. 24. Again, in the case of Kamaruddin Dastagir Sanadi
 versus State of Karnataka (2024) SCC Online SC 3541, this
 Court observed that discord and differences in domestic
 life are quite common in society. The commission of

 suicide largely depends upon the mental state of the
 victim. Until and unless some guilty intention on the part
 of the accused is established, it is ordinarily not possible
 to convict the accused for an offence under Section 306 IPC. 25. Prakash versus State of Maharashtra . 2024 INSC 1020 is
 a case where this Court, after analysing various decisions
 on the point, summed up the legal position in the follow-
 ing manner: ( 2025:HHC:25967 ) 31. In the present case, the evidence on record is

 insufficient to conclude that the accused had created such

 . circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option

 but to commit suicide. 32. Learned Trial Court relied upon Section 113-A of the

 Indian Evidence Act; however, this Section can only be applied

 when there is evidence of cruelty. It was laid down by the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh Kumar versus the State of

 Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573 that the presumption under Section

 113 A of the Indian Evidence Act will only apply when there is

 proof of the cruelty. It was observed: - 31. In this appeal, we are concerned with Section 113-A of
 the Evidence Act. The mere fact that the deceased
 committed suicide within a period of seven years of her
 marriage, the presumption under Section 113-A of the
 Evidence Act, would not automatically apply. The
 legislative mandate is that where a woman commits ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 36 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 suicide within seven years of her marriage, and it is
 shown that her husband or any relative of her husband
 had subjected her to cruelty, the presumption under

 . Section 113-A of the Evidence Act may be raised, having

 regard to all other circumstances of the case, that such
 suicide had been abetted by her husband or by such
 relative of her husband. 32. What is important to note is that the term "the court
 may presume, having regard to all other circumstances of
 the case that such suicide had been abetted by her
 husband" would indicate that the presumption is

 discretionary, unlike the presumption under Section 113-
 B of the Evidence Act, which is mandatory. Therefore,
 before the presumption under Section 113-A is raised, the
 prosecution must show evidence of cruelty or incessant

 harassment in that regard. 33. The court should be extremely careful in assessing
 evidence under Section 113-A to finding out if cruelty was
 meted out. If it transpires that a victim committing

 suicide was hypersensitive to ordinary petulance, discord
 and differences in domestic life quite common to the
 society to which the victim belonged and such petulance,

 discord and differences were not expected to induce a
 similarly circumstanced individual in a given society to

 commit suicide, the conscience of the court would not be
 satisfied for holding that the accused charged of abetting
 the offence of suicide was guilty. 34. Section 113-A has been interpreted by this Court
 in Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab [Lakhjit Singh v. State of
 Punjab, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 173: 1994 SCC (Cri) 235], Pawan
 Kumar v. State of Haryana [Pawan Kumar v. State of
 Haryana, (1998) 3 SCC 309: 1998 SCC (Cri) 740]
 and Shanti v. State of Haryana [Shanti v. State of Haryana,
 (1991) 1 SCC 371: 1991 SCC (Cri) 191]. 35. This Court has held that from the mere fact of suicide
 within seven years of marriage, one should not jump to
 the conclusion of abetment unless cruelty was proved. ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 The court has the discretion to raise or not to raise the
 presumption because of the words "may presume". It
 must take into account all the circumstances of the case,

 . which is an additional safeguard. 36. In the absence of any cogent evidence of harassment
 or cruelty, an accused cannot be held guilty of the offence
 under Section 306 IPC by raising a presumption under

 Section 113-A." 33. In the present case, the evidence regarding the

 cruelty is not satisfactory, and no reliance can be placed upon 34. r to Section 113-A of the Indian Evidence Act. Learned Trial Court was influenced by the suicide

 note, which was inadmissible without the examination of the

 handwriting expert, and the judgment passed by the learned

 Trial Court cannot be sustained. 35. In view of the above, the present appeal is allowed

 and the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court

 are ordered to be set aside. The accused is acquitted of the

 commission of the charged offences. The fine amount, if

 deposited, be refunded to the accused after the expiry of period

 of limitation and in case of appeal, the same be dealt with as per

 the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 36. In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure (Section 481 of Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS 38 ( 2025:HHC:25967 )

 Sanhita, 2023), the appellant is directed to furnish bail bonds in

 the sum of ₹50,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the

 . satisfaction of the learned Trial Court which shall be effective for

 six months with a stipulation that in an event of a Special Leave

 Petition being filed against this judgment or on grant of the

 leave, the appellant on receipt of notice thereof shall appear

 before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 37. The present appeal stands disposed of, so also the

 pending miscellaneous application(s), if any. 38. A copy of the judgment, along with records of the

 learned Trial Court, be sent back forthwith. (Rakesh Kainthla)

 Judge
 04th August, 2025

 (Shamsh Tabrez) ::: Downloaded on - 04/08/2025 21:22:49 :::CIS