Is the practice of content moderation by an online platform valid under India’s safe harbor laws, asked a participant during a roundtable discussion organised by The Internet Society (ISOC) and The Centre for Communication Governance (CCG) at National Law University Delhi on September 23. This roundtable focused on intermediary liability and safe harbor protections which are prescribed under the Information Technology (IT Act), 2000. “Is content moderation kosher in India, if platforms want to earn and retain safe harbor?” the participant questioned.

Under Section 79 of the IT Act, also known as the safe harbor provision, intermediaries or online platforms are exempt from liability for content posted by its users, provided that they did not initiate the transaction of information, select the person who received the post/content, and did not select or modify the content. The participant was trying to question that since safe harbor protections only apply in case a platform does not select or modify content, would content moderation still be covered within its scope?

Other participants also added while platforms originally scrutinize the content users posted, they have started pushing certain types of content and users which could qualify as moderation. One person suggested that the government should consider protecting intermediary functions of curating and moderating user-generated content.

The discussion was conducted under the Chatham House Rule . Thus, the identity of those participating in the discussion cannot be disclosed.

In certain cases, platforms rely on volunteers to moderate content. This is the case with the free online encyclopedia Wikipedia. A participant brought up the example of Wikipedia and mentioned that in the recent past, the platform has dealt with two different cases where Indian courts asked it to take down content or reveal an editor’s identity. One involved ANI, where the Delhi HC court ordered Wikipedia to disclose who made a defamatory edit on the company’s Wikipedia page. The other case involved the Supreme Court instructing Wikipedia to remove the name of the Kolkata Rape case victim from the case’s page.

The participant explained that in the Kolkata case, Wikipedia engaged in user discussion asking their volunteer editors to respect local laws. “Now, you don’t see that kind of conflict resolution led by the community envisaged anywhere in the intermediate liability legislation come up in the last few years,” he mentioned, adding that the government’s approach is very takedown-heavy. He supported the argument that the government should protect internet platforms’ curation and moderation functions.

One of the participants suggested that instead of taking away safe harbor, the government can consider expanding the transparency and disclosure requirements under the IT Act and its rules. “For instance [under the IT Act and Rules], platforms have an obligation to release compliance reports but these reports have very surface-level aggregated sort of data,” she said. Comparing this with the case in the EU, she mentioned that under the EU’s Digital Services Act (DSA), platforms have to submit a more detailed breakdown which includes whether a content moderation decision was automated or had human involvement. The DSA also requires platforms to submit the grounds on which they removed a piece of content, and also requires them to inform users if they reduce the visibility of a certain post.

Another participant added that users also need more information about how platforms and the government collude to make certain content visible on the internet. “We need to ask more questions of the government,” he added.

A participant argued that most of the larger intermediaries are global businesses and not based out of India. She said that platforms will not necessarily change their basic business policies based on a country-specific law. “And we don’t want these companies to go away. We don’t want them to take [away] employment and harm the economy,” she explained. As such, the government should focus on solving more fundamental problems, like cyberbullying, hate speech or counterfeiting, instead of taking away the platform’s safe harbour as a way to tackle the situation.

Another participant pushed back against the idea that platforms will not change their policies based on country-specific regulations. He brought up the example of X (formerly Twitter) in Brazil, explaining that while the platform initially shut down its offices in the country after the court threatened to arrest its legal representative, it eventually complied with the court’s demands because Brazil was a huge source of revenue for the company.

A participant pointed out that globally, lawmakers are raising questions about platform design “in terms of platforms promoting certain content, promoting certain harmful content, and what product liability that brings in.” He gave the example of the US lawsuit where a parent took TikTok to court over an internet challenge that ended up leading to her child’s death.

According to TechPolicy Press , while the court originally ruled in TikTok’s favor exempting it from liability under Section 230 (US’s clause for safe harbor), the federal appeals court later reversed the decision. The appeals court argued that Section 230 does not cover the platform’s actions as curators (via recommendation algorithms) from liability.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event