SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Vacancy of reserved category teaching posts in Central Universities.
DATE: 2022-07-21
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/w49vuu/vacancy_of_reserved_category_teaching_posts_in/

--- POST TEXT ---

In a response to a question by A A Rahim MP in the Rajya Sabha on vacancy of reserved category teaching posts in central universities the Ministry of Education has given the data on number of vacant posts and number of posts where interviews were conducted but the post remains vacant as it was declared none found suitable. 

The data given exposes the union government's dilution of the constitutional mandated reservation and of its identity politics of appointing a tribal woman as president as mere hollow appeasement. It is shocking that 988 posts of SC category, 576 ST, 1761 OBC and 344 PWD teaching positions are lying vacant. 

Further in a University like JNU which has just now been ranked 2nd by the NIRF, 22 SC, 10 ST and 33 OBC positions have had recruitment processes and did not make appointments as they were declared “none found suitable.” In University of Hyderabad, Rohith Vemula’s university, 74 SC, 66 ST and 14 OBC vacancies were similarly declared “none found suitable.” In Modi’s constituency of Varanasi in the prestigious Banaras Hindu University, 16 SC, 11 ST and 6 OBC vacancies had “none found suitable.” The Prime Minister has been incapable of preventing such a practice in a premier central university in his own constituency. The practice of declaring “none found suitable” for reserved category posts is casteist. It is also a ridiculous assertion that in the present situation where there is massive unemployment the top central universities are unable to find suitable. 

What this data shows is the anti-dalit, anti-adivasi and anti-OBC outlook of the union government. The BJP union government is brazenly breaching the right to reservation guaranteed by the constitution. The government must immediately correct this violation of reservation rights and fill all the vacancies in teaching posts in the central universities.