These are the first bail applications under Section 439 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 filed on behalf of both the applicants for grant of bail.
 The applicant Harun is in custody since 01.11.2022 and Jeeshan is in custody
 since 02.11.2022 in connection with Crime No.837/2022 registered at Police
 Station Rajendra Nagar, District Indore (M.P.) for commission of offence
 punishable under sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code of 1860. As per prosecution story, on 10.09.2022 one Vilas committed suicide

 upon which the concerned police station registered merg and during the
 investigation the brother-in-law of the deceased gave statements that co-accused
 Kusum Thakur used to blackmail the deceased with regard to his nude video
 that she will circulate it on social media. in furtherance of such threat he
 committed suicide. Upon such incident the offence under Section 306 of IPC
 was registered and on investigation, it is found that in the mobile of deceased
 some unknown numbers were traced and they were found to be located at
 Bharatpur, Rajasthan, which were related to the present applicant. Accordingly,
 offence has been registered. Learned counsel for the applicants submits that both the applicants are
 innocent persons and they have been falsely implicated in this offence.
 Applicant Harun is in custody since 01.11.2022 and applicant Jeeshan is in
 custody since 02.11.2022. There is no legal admissible evidence available on
 record to connect both the applicants with the aforesaid offence. They have
 been implicated in this offence only on the basis of the memorandum under Section 27 of the Evidence Act given by co-accused. Investigation is over and Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 1/25/2023 12:57:23 PM 3 charge-sheet has been filed. Both the applicants are permanent resident of
 Bharatpur, Rajasthan. Final conclusion of the trial is likely to take sufficient long
 time. Hence, he prays that both the applicants be enlarged on bail. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent / State opposes the bail
 application and prays for its rejection. Perused the impugned order of the trial Court as well as the case diary.
 After considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, nature and
 gravity of offence, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for both the
 applicants and also taking note of the fact that during the investigation call
 details have been obtained by the police, mobile phone has been recovered
 from the possession of the applicant Harun, other co-accused persons are still
 absconding and final conclusion of the trial will take sufficient long time. In view of the above, without commenting on the merits of the case, this
 Court is not inclined to grant bail to both the applicants. Accordingly, these present applications preferred under Section 439 of
 Cr.P.C. is hereby dismissed. Certified copy as per rules. (ANIL VERMA)
 JUDGE
 Anushree Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 1/25/2023 12:57:23 PM