Date : 15-05-2019

Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned counsel for the State. As the case diary has been received, considering the nature of the grievance raised in the
petition, the matter is taken up for disposal at the admission stage.
By way of this application under Section 482 and 401 Cr.P.C., the petitioner herein namely,
Manuwara Begum and Saibur Rahman, who has been arrayed as an accused in Murajhar PS
Case No.232/2016 under Section 468 / 406 / 294 / 506 IPC has sought for quashing of the
aforesaid proceeding. The FIR was lodged by one of the beneficiary, namely Md.Shahjahan Fakir stating that the
present petitioners being the President of Nilbagan GP and other accused is her husband in
connivance has opened several bank accounts in the name of the informant and other
beneficiaries and after opening the account, fraudulently have misappropriated the amount
that was deposited in the said account against the job card. According to the informant they
never received any amount against such job card although their name has been shown
against certain account opened against the job card. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that they are in no way connected
with the allegations and the complainant being the son of the ex-MLA of the area has himself
fraudulently collected one job card from the Secretary of the said GP. While the petitioner
No.2, being the President of the GP raised objection against such allotment of job card to
such parson, who is a resourceful person, then out of conspiracy the FIR has been lodged
against the petitioners. Further, it is submitted that it is one, Firdousi Rahman Chowdhury,
who is an agent under the bank is involved in such misappropriation of government fund by
adopting illegal means. Accordingly, prayer is made to quash the proceeding under the
provision of Section 482 Cr.P.C. I have heard the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner and also perused the
case diary which reveals that the informant as well as certain other beneficiary were
examined along with the agent of the bank (CSP Point), Firdousi Rahman Chowdhury. From
the statement of those witnesses it reveals that the present accused petitioners herein
collected necessary documents from the fraud persons and opens account through agent of
 Page No.# 3/3

the Bank vide CSP code No.1350. They have even manipulated the biometric signature by
putting their own biometric signature in the name of the account holder while opening the
bank account and also at the time of withdrawal of money. Case diary also reveals that the
investigation is going on in full swing for further revealment of the matter regarding FSL
examination of thumb impression in the biometric and for collection of relevant documents
from other beneficiaries etc. The Investigating Officer also proceed to seize certain relevant
bank document to get the picture of opening and withdrawal of the account in the name of
the beneficiary. The nature of the alleged offence is serious and the complicity of the accused
person is very much suggested by the incriminating material in the case diary.
I have found no substance in the contention that has been raised in the present petition that
there is no complicity of the present petitioners. In such backdrop it can be held that it is not
a fit case to invoke the provision of Section 482 Cr.P.C. Accordingly, this Court is not inclined
to accept the prayer of the petitioner and the same is rejected. Petition stands dismissed.
Return the case record. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant