SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Did I get scammed? Please help me understand.
DATE: 2025-05-05
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1kfe9u5/did_i_get_scammed_please_help_me_understand/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello doston, please help because no one I know personally has been able to figure this out. 

I got a call in the afternoon today, dude saying my parecl from so and so company is to be delivered and he wants to confirm my address. He repeats my correct address and I say, yes, this is it. 

I do have a parcel from said company on the way; I had placed the order two days ago so a delivery this early was really surprising and I did end up saying, "arrey aa bhi gaya" to the guy. 

Anyway, he then asks me to confirm my name, and keeps asking "aap Old Friend for Dinner hi bol rahi hain na". Multiple times. 

Asks me if my order is prepaid or COD; I tell him how does it matter to him, and that he can call me once he is outside my door. He repeats to confirm if my name is my name, and if I belong to the state I presently am in. Says the "phone company" is showing Karnataka (I bought this sim like 10 years ago, when I was working in B'lore) and back to the same questions again: Aap Old Friend for Dinner hi bol rahe ho na. Aap isi state ke ho na. Prepaid order hai na. 

Sensing irritation in my voice, he says okay madam, I am currently in this locality (again, a very real locality about half an hour from my home) and will be there in half an hour. 

After he hangs up, I go track my order and the tracker shows my order is in NCR; will take about three to four days (as I had expected). I call back. No one answers. Ask friend to use his number to call the number. No one answers. 

What happened? What do I do now? Have I already passed on whatever information they needed, in case they were trying to run a scam? I am kind of scared about this whole thing. How does someone have my name, number, address, and knowledge of the fact that I am expecting a delivery from so and so company in the near future? 

Please share your thoughts. Thank you.