The present appeal has been filed by the assessee against
the order dated 29.12.2015 passed by the AO u/s 144C r.w.s.
143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 . 2. Following grounds have been raised by the assessee: Hon'ble DRP erred in determining the adjustment of
 Rs.1,63,08,413/- to the value of international
 transactions pertaining to Software Development
 Services Segment. 2. That on facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and Ld.
 TPO/AO failed to appreciate the business model and 2 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. business realities of the Appellant and its Associated
Enterprises ("AEs") while conducting the transfer
pricing analysis and adopted an entirely flawed
approach to reach a conclusion that the Appellant is
not compensated at arm's length for its Software
Development Services Segment. 3. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO erred in not
discharging his statutory onus to establish that any of
the conditions specified in clause (a) to (d) of section
92C(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("Act") have been
satisfied before disregarding the arm's length price
determined by the Appellant and proceeding to
determine the arm's length price himself. 4. On the facts and in law, the Hon'ble DRP and Ld.
TPO/AO have erred in rejecting the economic analysis
undertaken by the Appellant without proper
justification and conducting a fresh search using
arbitrary filters for identifying companies comparable
to the Appellant. 5. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO / AO and
Hon'ble DRP grossly erred in not accepting the
comparable companies proposed by the Appellant, as
the said comparable companies met the FAR (functions
performed, assets employed and risk assumed) test
stated under Rule 10B(2) of the Income Tax Rules,
1962 ("the Rules"). 6. On facts and in law, the Ld. AO/ TPO erred in
violating the provisions of Rule 10B(2) of the
Rules by introducing new comparables without
considering the differences in the functions performed,
assets employed and risks assumed by such companies
vis-a-vis the Appellant, thereby resorting to cherry
picking of comparables. 7. On facts and in law, the Ld. AO/ TPO erred in
incorrectly computing the operating margins of the
comparable companies by treating certain items as
operating / non-operating. Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. 8. On facts and in law, the Ld. AO/ TPO and Hon'ble
DRP erred in not providing the benefit envisaged under section 92C(2) of the Act. 9. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO and Ld. AO
erred in not allowing a risk adjustment to the
Appellant thereby contravening the provisions of Rule
10B(1)(e)(iii) and Rule 10B(3) of the Rules. 10. On facts and in law the Ld. TPO, Ld. AO and the
Hon'ble DRP erred in using the data for the current
year (i.e. financial year 2010-11) which was not
contemporaneous and which was not available in the
public domain at the time of preparing the TP
documentation by the Appellant, thereby grossly
misinterpreting the requirement of 'contemporaneous'
data in the Rules to necessarily imply current year
data, thereby breaching the principles of natural
justice and 'impossibility of performance'. Corporate Tax Grounds

A. Disallowance u/s 40(a)(i) [Rs. 20,83,040] 11. On the facts and in law, the Ld. DRP/AO have
erred in disallowing Rs. 20,83,040 for non-deduction of
tax at source under section 40(a)(i) of the Act by
concluding that the reimbursement of expenses by the
assessee to its overseas group companies was liable to
withholding tax provisions u/s 195(1) of the Act. 12. On the facts and in law, the Ld. DRP/AO grossly
erred in holding that the reimbursement of expenses
were payments in the nature of Fee for Technical
Services (FTS) / Fees for Included Service (FIS) and
were thus sums chargeable to tax in the hands of the
recipients. 13. On the facts and in law, the Ld. DRP/AO grossly
erred in passing a non-speaking order, without
granting sufficient opportunity of hearing. 14. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the
Hon'ble DRP erred in concluding that the payment of
training expenses amounting to Rs. 4,28,377 out of 4 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. the total reimbursement of Rs. 20,83,040 is liable to
 withholding tax provisions of S. 195(1) of the Act and
 failing to appreciate that payment of training expenses
 does not fall within the meaning of FIS under Article
 12 of the India-Singapore tax treaty. B. Other Grounds 15. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case,
 the Ld. AO erred in levying interest under section 234B and 234D of the Act. 16. On the facts and in law, the Ld. AO and the
 Hon'ble DRP erred on facts and in law in initiating
 penalty under section 271(1)(c) and 271AA of the Act. 3. G&D India was incorporated in 2001 as 100 percent subsidiary of
G&D GmbH, with its corporate office located in Gurgaon. The company
initially specialized in currency automation systems, later adding its
business in the fields of telecommunications, electronic payment,
transportation, health care and identification. G&D has enjoyed business
relations with India since, the 1990s and sold the first banknote
processing systems to India on 1997. G&D India holds significant market
share in the currency automation equipment segment, the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) being one of its major customers. The company is also a
provider of SIM cards for mobile communications, credit and debit cards
for banks as well as cards for various government projects such as driving
licenses, vehicle registration and identification. The company provides the
following products and services to its customers: Analysis of the assessee's transfer pricing approach 4. The international transactions that have been entered into by the
assessee have been tabulated above. The international transaction of the
assessee in relation to providing Software Development Services and
assembly of Sim cards are examined in TP study. The functions of the
assessee and its AE and the functions of the assessee as submitted in the
TP report are found to be in order. Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT CHARGES: 5. The assessee has used TNMM as the method and Net Operating
profit Margin based on Costs (NCP Margin) as the PLl. The assessee has
arrived at a set of 12 companies with an average margin of 10.55%. The
assessee has used multiple year data. The assessee's own margin is
worked out to be 11.61% for Software Development Services. Based on
the analysis, the assessee has concluded that its international transactions
are at arm's length. SIM CARD DISTRIBUTION: 6. The assessee has used TNMM as the method and Net Operating
Profit Margin based on Costs (NCP Margin) as the PLI. The assessee has
arrived at a set of 04 companies with an average margin of 0.14%. The
assessee has used multiple year data. The assessee's own margin is
worked out to be (6.78%) for Sim Card Distribution Segment. Based on
the analysis, the assessee has concluded that its international transactions
are at arm's length. Transfer pricing analysis by the TPO: 7. As per the audit report, the assessee operates in the following
primary business segments: 8. In the software development services segment, the TPO has used
current year data and selected the following comparables. He has
computed the PLI (OP/OC) at 22.92% and made an adjustment of
Rs.1,79,43,149/-. In the sim card assembly segment, the TPO has 7 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. computed the PLI (NPM) at 0.03% and made an adjustment of
Rs.7,53,88,809/-. 9. Before us the assessee has taken objection of selection of the
following comparables: Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. 8 Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. 9 Wipro Technologies Services Limited
 10 Zylog Systems Ltd. 10. Further, the assessee sought to include the following two
comparables namely, 1. R. Systems Ltd. 2. Vama Industries Ltd. Acropetal Technologies Limited: E-infochips Limited: The TPO held that this is an appropriate filter as this is the stage which
determine the correct comparability. In respect of enterprises whose main
source of income is from service segment, the companies whose income
from software development services come to more than 75% of the
operating revenues have only to be considered for the ALP study as other
segment may not materially affect the financial results of the company.
While disputing the contention of the assessee that filter should be 50%
instead of 75%, the TPO reiterated his stand holding that the search
criterion is basically to search for companies which are mainly engaged in
IT industry or whose significant activities or functions relate to IT industry.
Hence, it is appropriate to apply the filter that the comparable company
should have at least 75% of its revenue from IT industry. He further held
that even the OECD guidelines says that functional analysis is to identify
and to compare economically significant activities undertaken by the 10 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. independent enterprises. Thus the filter of 75% revenues from IT industry
is applied as this threshold would given independent companies whose
economically significant activities pertain to IT industry and the revenues
from other sources would not impact materially the profitability of the
company at the enterprise level. The threshold applied by the taxpayer at
50% does not bring in comparables with IT industry as its significant
activities. 15. We have gone through the financials of this comparable, the
operating revenues gross are to the tune of Rs.26,03,84,251/- whereas
the revenue from software development is Rs.19,21,09,661/- which is less
than 75% hence, do not qualify for the comparable as per the TPO's own
filter. Hence, it is directed that this comparable may be obliterated from
the list of comparable. Zylog Systems Ltd.: 16. Similarly in the case of this comparable, the revenues from the
software solutions and products in the current year is 45.2% and in the
earlier year 39.5% which is less than 75% hence, do not qualify for the
comparable as per the TPO's own filter. Hence, it is directed that this
comparable may be obliterated from the list of comparable. e-Zest Solutions Limited: 17. It was argued for exclusion of E-Zest from the final list of
comparables on the ground that the said company is functionally dissimilar
to assessee, as it is engaged in providing e-Business Consulting services
including product development services and technical services which they
themselves characterize as Knowledge Process Outsourcing ('KPO')
services. Whilst placing heavy reliance on the company's website handout
along with the Annual Report, he submitted that the assessee being a 11 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. captive software development company cannot be compared with a KPO.
Additionally, he took us through the annual report to evidence that no
segmental data vis-à-vis the services and products was available. We find
that cloud computing has been the major source of revenue of this
company, hence, functionally not comparable. In the assessee's own case
for the assessment year 2008-09, this comparable has been excluded by
the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal relying on the decision of Sunguard
Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 1487/Bang./2012. Hence, keeping in
view the decision of the earlier year, we direct that this comparable may
be excluded from the list of comparables. Infosys Ltd.: 18. It was argued by the ld. AR that this comparable is functionally
different as it is providing end to end solutions, technical consultancy,
design development, re-engineering along with software products. He also
argued that owing to the scale of operation and risk undertaken and owing
to lack of segmental data this cannot be taken as a comparable. In the
assessee's own case for the assessment year 2008-09, this comparable
has been excluded by the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal relying on the
decision of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT in ITA No.
333/Del/2013. Hence, keeping in view the decision of the earlier year, we
direct that this comparable may be excluded from the list of comparables. Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd. 19. It was argued by the ld. AR that this comparable is functionally
different as it is engaged in software development and software products
also. He also argued that owing to lack of segmental data, owing to
insufficient segmental information and being earned more than 50% of the
revenue from onsite operations, this cannot be taken as a comparable. He 12 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. also relied on the decision of the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the
case of Alcatel Lucent India Ltd. Vs DCIT in ITA N. 6856/Del/2015 and
Parexel International India Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT in ITA No.1918/Hyd/2014.
We find in the case of Alcatel Lucent India Ltd., the Co-ordinate Bench has
held that L&T is functionally dissimilar to the functions of Alcatel Lucent. In
the case of Parexel International India Pvt. Ltd., the Co-ordinate Bench
held as under: 20. We find that the submissions of the ld. AR cannot be accepted as the
assessee and the comparable, and the study of the TPO involves 13 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. determination of ALP on software development services. In the software
development services, the overseas revenues do involve the similar
functions. The assessee is also in the software development segment so as
the comparable. Increase in turnover cannot entitle to exclude the
comparable. The revenues have shown to be from the IT services. The
case laws supported by the assessee are not applicable to the facts of this
case. 93.56% of revenue is coming from the export of software
development only. Functionally Infosys is on a different format whereas
L&T is similar. Keeping in view, the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of Morgan Stanley and Company Inc. [292 ITR 416] regarding
the functions and comparability thereof, we hold that this can be included
an appropriate comparable. Persistent Systems and Solutions Ltd.: 21. It was argued by the ld. AR that this comparable is functionally
different as it is engaged in software development and software products
also. He also argued that owing to lack of segmental data, owing to
insufficient segmental information, this cannot be taken as a comparable.
Placed reliance on the judgment of Alcatel Lucent India Ltd. (supra) and
Broadcom India Research Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 348/Bang/2015. We find as
per the audited account, the company provides support in software
development, consultancy and systems integration. Regarding the
description of products of services, they are into information technology
software services. In the assessee's own case for the assessment year
2008-09, this comparable has been excluded by the Co-ordinate Bench of
the Tribunal. Hence, keeping in view the decision of the earlier year, we
direct that this comparable may be excluded from the list of comparables 14 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. Persistent Systems Ltd.: 22. It was argued by the ld. AR that this comparable is functionally
different as it is engaged in diversified services including intellectual
property led software solutions and software products focusing on cloud
computing, business intelligence and analytics etc. and is hence
functionally dissimilar. The company also owns significant intangibles. A
perusal of the profit and loss account of the company that the company
had revenue streams from software services and products. It is seen that
the revenues and expenses have been shown in a consolidated manner
and no segmented disclosure has been made. In the assessee's own case
for the assessment year 2008-09, this comparable has been excluded by
the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal. Hence, keeping in view the decision
of the earlier year, we direct that this comparable may be excluded from
the list of comparables

Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd.: 23. It was argued by the ld. AR that this comparable is functionally
different as it is engaged in diversified services software products. It was
argued that in the absence of sufficient segmental data and acquisition
taken up during the year, it cannot be taken as a comparable. It was also
argued that the comparable spent extensive expenditure on R&D too. We
hold that a comparable having a merger and acquisition would cease to be
comparable only if it is shown that this has resulted in material
dissimilarity and has affected its margins. This is particularly true in the
ITES/software filed where mergers and acquisitions are the norm rather
than an exception. Such mergers and acquisitions do not often result in a
substantial change in the company's functional profile. We rely on the
decision of the Co-ordinate Bench of ITAT in Willis Processing Services (I) 15 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Vs DCIT 2013-TII-47-ITAT-Mum-TP wherein it was observed as
under: 24. The comparable is a provider of Tele-communication Software
Services to Mobile Terminal Vendors, and Solutions to Network equipment
manufactures. The restructuring reserve account and the diminution value
of investment do not necessarily adversely affect this to be a comparable.
The profits, EBITDA margins, software services, network engineering
services do not change perceptibly. The company has enquired R&D
charges on account of R&D centre at IIT Madras and incurred expense of
Rs.8.94 lacs do not impact the profitability. Hence, we hold that this
comparable may be included in the TP study. Wipro Technologies Services Limited: 25. It was argued that this cannot be a comparable owing to dissimilar
functionality and significant RPT, lack of segmental data. In addition, it is
holding software intangibles of Rs.2.31 crores. The accumulated
depreciation and amortization remained constant as at 1st April 2010 and
as at 31st March 2011. Regarding the segmental information, the company
reports that it is engaged in providing services which are considered as
one segment. Since, there are no separate reportable segments, no
segmental reporting was done in the audit report. The comparable was 16 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. rejected by the Tribunal in the case of Orange Business Service India
Solution Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 869/Del/2016 on the ground that this
company is a subsidiary of Wipro Ltd, which has a considerable brand
name, and further that the entire revenue during the year in this company
is covered by a master service agreement entered into by breakthrough
with CITI group services. The coordinate bench of this Tribunal has
rejected this comparable by holding as under: 26. Hence, we hereby direct that this may be excluded from the TP
study. R Systems Ltd.: 27. The assessee sought to include this company arguing that audited
quarterly results are available in the public domain and different year
financial data can be used for comparison. We hold that Rule 10B(4)
requires that the data to be used in analyzing the comparability of an
uncontrolled transaction with an international transaction shall be the data
relating to the financial year in which the international transaction had
been entered into. The comparability of an uncontrolled transaction can be 17 ITA No. 1431/Del/2016 Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. analyzed only with the "data relating to the financial year" in which the
international transaction has been entered into. As the assessee follows
the accounting year ending 31st March, the comparables must also have
the data relating to the financial year ending 31st March. Since, this data is
not available, such companies cannot be accepted as comparables. Vama Industries Ltd.: 28. It was argued that this comparable may be included owing to
availability of segmental data. The TPO rejected as the comparable fails
the service income filter. Since, we have already held that the filter of less
than 75% is to be excluded, this company does not pass the test of filter
of service income laid down by the TPO. Hence, we hold that it is not an
appropriate comparable for TP study. 29. Regarding the allowance on account of risk adjustment, the
Assessing Officer did not accept the claim of the assessee. The DRP held
that the assessee failed to substantiate the claim of risk. In the case of
Ciena India (P) Ltd. 59 taxmann.com 92, the Co-ordinate Bench held that
risk adjustment can be allowed provided the assessee places on record
some appropriate material to demonstrate that risk undertaken by the
comparable company were relatively more than it, warranting downward
adjustment in their profit rates. It was held in the case of EXL Servie.com
India Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT 2014-TII-313-ITAT-DeL-TP risk adjustment is
allowed only when the differences have pointed out and the authorities
can proceed to calculate the effect of such differences on the operating
profits margins of the comparables. Hence, keeping in view, the provisions
of Section 10B(2)(b) , we direct the assessee to provide the detailed
working of the risk assumed to the TPO so that they can verify the
correctness of the working as given by the assessee and allow the same in
accordance with the provisions of the Rules enforce. Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. Corporate Issues: 30. Brief facts of the case are that the Assessing Officer disallowed
Rs.20,83,040/- as the assessee failed to deduct TDS on these payments.
Before us it was brought to the notice that these amounts are paid on
account of purchase of machinery, reimbursement of pension,
reimbursement of travel expenses and training expenses. Other than this,
it was argued that TDS was not applicable as reimbursement is on actual
cost to cost basis on the expenses incurred. The DRP held that they are
disallowable as the above payments are in the nature of FTS. On going to
the expenses, we find that training expenses, purchase of materials,
reimbursement of travel expenses and pension are not liable to the
provisions of TDS. Regarding the other reimbursement, we have gone
through the Circulars issued by the CBDT No. 3/2015 and 2/2014. We hold
that amounts paid by way of reimbursement of expenses do not constitute
income in the hands of the recipient. Consequently, the payer is under no
obligation to deduct TDS u/s 194C and no disallowance of the expenditure
can be made u/s 40(a)(ia) . Since, it is the Assessing Officer who would be
in a position to determine whether the payments are reimbursement are
not, we hereby direct the assessee to produce the relevant details
pertaining to reimbursements other than training expenses, purchase of
materials, reimbursement of travel expenses and reimbursement pension.
The Assessing Officer may take a decision after the examination of the
details of the reimbursement. 31. Ground Nos. 15 & 16 are consequential in nature. Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd. 32. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.
 Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 30/10/2019.