Video sharing platform YouTube has alerted users about an artificial intelligence (AI)-generated video of the company’s CEO, Neal Mohan, in which he is purportedly seen announcing changes in monetisation policy.

YouTube stated that this was likely a phishing attempt, and that following instructions shared in the video could lead to phishing sites, which could install malware into users’ devices or steal their credentials, as per a blog post .

“ YouTube and its employees will never attempt to contact you or share information through a private video. If a video is shared privately with you claiming to be from YouTube, the video is a phishing scam”, the company said.

Further explaining, the platform said that many phishers actively target creators by using in-platform features to link to malicious content. The company suggested users to avoid opening files or links they do not trust.

AI-generated deepfakes are plaguing personal reputation , leading to financial misinformation , harming electoral discourse , and even spreading sexually explicit imagery across social media platforms. It is something that has been reported previously, with the Indian Government even mulling a separate legislation to tackle the dissemination of such questionable use of AI.

Although there has since been no movement from the Indian government with regard to the same, what several public figures like actor Jackie Shroff have done in recent years is access the benefits of securing their personality rights , thereby disallowing any unpermitted use of their name, voice, image, likeness of other unique aspects of their identities. MediaNama has discussed earlier if the eventual rise in AI use as well as personality rights protection, during the years to come, could result in legal battles in India .

While definitive answers are scarce in terms of which way disruptions in the field of AI are headed, regulating AI development could be an effective way to regulate AI responses when it comes to frontier AI development. Herein, however, instances such as the United States and European Union refusing to sign the recent Paris AI Action Summit joint statement on “Safe” AI brings in questions of unilateral efforts as opposed to a globally agreed-upon standpoint on the issue.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event