SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: WTF am I doing with my life?
DATE: 2022-04-21
SCORE: 96
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/u8cf2r/wtf_am_i_doing_with_my_life/

--- POST TEXT ---

My family is toxic, overbearing mother, elusive father, irresponsible brother.

Mother - needs me to pick her call whenever she calls despite telling her sometimes i can't. She'll call all of my colleagues if i don't. I fear her behaviour everyday. Always worrying, doesn't have a social life, doesn't have a life outside house, fixated on me what I do everyday. She maybe bipolar, denies to go to a psychiatrist. She is a retired lecturer from a reputed college in a city, wow.

Father - doesn't bother if you are alive or not. I talked to him more than 3 months ago, that was when i was home. Workaholic, his life revolves around a certain set of people he has met years ago. Forgets everything when it comes to anything related to house, talks like an intellectual when it's about politics or work. Typical Indian man - doesn't know how to light a stove. Idk how he can be a called a human being and 'head of the family '. He retired from a top position in government. 

Brother - genius while growing up. Stays at home since 8 years, jobless, watching movies, random YouTube videos. No goal in life. Always trying to find fault. Anger issues. Has hit mom multiple times in the past. Mom is ko less, she is sarcastic and doesn't know when to stop. Miser doesn't earn a single penny, doesn't spend a single penny. I had to buy him clothes telling it was for my happiness because I couldn't see him going out of the house like a beggar. Car is unwashed, not maintained, doesn't bother about it. Has no goals for future. Has no friends. Ones he has are opportunists. Mother interfered in his friendships and broke a few of them. Controlling mother. He's 33 and he has an engineering degree. Teachers in school hoped he would become a scientist one day. 

I moved away from my toxic family 1.5 years ago. Mother was dependent on me for every dam emotion, treats me like a kid (I'm 31), should not go out, should dress a certain way, can't spend my money on things I like. I hate how she makes me feel - insecure, self doubting, almost like a doormat. It has seeped in into my other relationships. I hate when I grow closer to people.

I'm missing my city. I stay at a tier2 city. I have no social life. I have become lonelier. I don't meet people. I work and go home, cook, read, mindlessly use SM, apply for other jobs if I'm in the mood for it, take care of the house. Weekends are spent questioning my existence. I maybe depressed idk. Or more. Indifferent maybe. I swing between extreme sadness to making up for all chances and opportunities missed. 

Have not met a guy who i can take seriously. Dad and brother being the male influences, I don't want to be with someone who remotely resembles them. High standards or trying to protect myself, depends on how you see it. The ones I genuinely like, which is very rare, don't express it/not interested. Can't compromise on my value system and go for casual dating. 

I want to move back to my city. I want to become a normal 31 yo woman. I hate to stay with my family. I won't be allowed to stay alone if i go back. Can't draw boundaries with family. Emotional blackmail. 

Is there no end this daily meaningless existence?

Edit: for those of you trying to reach me via DM, I'm emotionally exhausted to make one on one conversation with random internet strangers