DINESH KUMAR SHARMA,J : 3. The petitioner has alleged that the suspected persons are a group of
 land grabbers, property dealers and fraudulent litigators in the local
 area of the petitioner and are targeting the Petitioner since last 15 years
 in greed of her property. It has also been alleged that between the
 suspected persons and the petitioner there are more than 10 cases
 pending in District Courts and the High Court. It has further been
 submitted that besides the same, there are more than 10 Police
 Complaints filed before the local Police Stations, against the suspected W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 2 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 persons for harassment, stalking, following, annoying, abusing, and
 threatening the petitioner. It has been submitted that their motive is to
 pressurize and threaten the petitioner so that she ultimately surrenders
 and sells her property to the suspected persons at throw away prices. 4. The petitioner submitted that in absence of any other efficacious
 remedy, the present petition has been filed seeking registration of FIR
 under Section 302 / 120B / 34 IPC against the suspected persons for
 hatching such conspiracy and murdering the petitioner's son. The
 petitioner stated that the local Police is well aware of the entire dispute
 but have not taken any action till date. It has been submitted that the
 investigation by CBI is necessary in the present case on account of, the
 complexity involved in this case. It has been submitted that the case is
 totally based on circumstantial evidences that need to be cracked based
 on the evidences related to telephonic CDR, Whatsapp communication,
 banking transactional links, Geo Location mapping of each and every
 suspect etc. 5. The petitioner has alleged that her son Kartik Gandhi has been
 murdered under a conspiracy by the suspected persons in order to
 pressurize the petitioner to surrender her property to Ashwani Malik
 and Subhashani Malik. The petitioner has given a list of 22 suspected
 persons in the writ petition. The petitioner has alleged that on
 27.12.2023, the petitioner's son went to Leh, Ladakh with one of the
 suspects Aditya Singh. On 01.01.2024, the petitioner received a
 whatsapp call from an unknown person namely Aditya Singh who
 informed that her son Kartik Gandhi has met with an accident. The
 petitioner was asked to reach Ladakh immediately; however, the W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 3 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 Petitioner could not go as she was alone and suffering from high fever.
 It is alleged that Aditya Singh also sent some pictures of Kartik Gandhi
 to the petitioner but the petitioner failed to recognize her son. Aditya
 Singh informed that he also accompanied Kartik Gandhi to Leh,
 however, the same was suspected by the petitioner as Aditya Singh did
 not suffer even a single injury out of such a major accident. 6. The petitioner believed it to be a hoax/ threat call and did not take it
 seriously because she used to receive such calls on regular basis from
 the suspected persons. The petitioner stated that the above said
 suspected persons use "D-944, New Friends Colony, New Delhi" as
 their "Adda" for all their unlawful activities and said place is the hub
 and epicenter of cyber fraud, drug peddling and anti-national activities
 under the control of Ashwani Malik. The petitioner states that on
 intervening night of 02.01.2024 and 03.01.2024 at around 2:50 AM
 Kartik Gandhi was brought to the trauma center, AIIMS Hospital in
 Delhi, by one of the suspects Aditya Singh. The petitioner states that
 when Kartik Gandhi gained consciousness, the petitioner met him. 7. Allegedly, after gaining consciousness, Kartik Gandhi told the
 petitioner that "he was trapped by Ashwani Malik and his gang, he was
 blackmailed and forcefully taken him to Leh, he did not want to go. In
 Leh there were 4-5 people including Aditya Singh. His phone was
 snatched and forcefully kept by Aditya Singh, so he could not inform
 his mother anything. He also told that, Ashwani Malik and Vinay Malik
 were in regular touch with Aditya Singh. Upon Malik's instructions,
 Aditya Singh wanted him (Kartik Gandhi) to call his mother and tell
 her to dispose of his mother's share in the property in the name of W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 4 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 Maliks and Aryas which he refused to do. This is the reason when he
 was forced to sit inside the car and the car was then eventually pushed
 from the cliff into the valley by Aditya Singh and others". 8. The petitioner states that she preferred to dial 112 from her own
 number (8826622932). The petitioner also informed the same to her
 lawyer, who suggested the Petitioner to dial 112 from the AIIMS
 landline number. The petitioner then informed everything to the police.
 The police officer reached on the spot after 1.5 hrs. and called Aditya
 Singh to the AIIMS check post. However, no action or inquiry was
 taken/conducted in furtherance against Aditya Singh or any other
 suspects. Mr. Kartik Gandhi succumbed to the injuries on 15.01.2024.
 The petitioner states that she is very much convinced with the foul play
 and larger conspiracy behind the death of her son and her apprehension
 got aggravated when she saw the staff and other associates of Malik's
 roaming in the hospital and following her as they used to do in courts.
 The petitioner has alleged that her son Kartik Gandhi was cold
 bloodedly murdered and designed by the suspected persons to make it
 look like a case of accident. 9. The petitioner submitted that she is a co-owner (50%) of the 2nd floor
 at C-63, Friends Colony (East), New Delhi along with entire roof rights
 up to the highest level. Sh. Kartik Gandhi was also a co-owner (50%)
 of the said property; by virtue of will dated 12.07.2005 of his father
 Late Sh. Sushil Kumar Gandhi. The First floor and the Ground floor
 were purchased by the Maliks in the year 1996 and 2009 respectively. 10. The petitioner alleged that since that day, Vinay Malik, Ashwani
 Malik, Subhashani Malik, and Bimal Arya were eying on petitioner's W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 5 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 property and they started picking up fights on day to day basis with the
 petitioner and her husband. The petitioner stated that she came to know
 about the fact that they are a group of people who belong to criminal
 background and are involved in the land grabbing in collaboration with
 other suspected persons. 11. The petitioner has given details of around 10 litigations in the petition
 which are pending before the High Court and District Courts. The
 petitioner alleged that she had filed suits, FIRs and criminal cases
 against the said Maliks and Aryas for the property and in view to harass
 the petitioner they have also filed false and frivolous cases against the
 petitioner. The petitioner has given details of such cases in the petition.
 The petitioner stated that she has filed several complaints with the
 police. However, no action has been taken. 12. The petitioner alleged that the suspects even tried to lure the control of
 petitioner's son's life and administered him drugs and alcohol and
 trapped him by befriending him with several girls. In the same line of
 conspiracy a girl namely Akshita Sekhri was planted who later on
 lodged an FIR No. 261/2021, PS Hauz Khas, u/s 354D (2)/354A/506 of IPC and FIR No. 2/2021 u/s 354D / 509 of IPC. The petitioner alleged
 that Kartik Gandhi was falsely implicated and remained in judicial
 custody for around 03 months. The petitioner states that she was
 informed by her deceased son that the suspects forcefully got some
 blank papers signed from him. 13. The petitioner alleged that her son was controlled by the suspected
 persons to detach her from the petitioner. It has also been alleged that
 the petitioner was put on surveillance. The petitioner stated that after W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 6 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 the death of her son the petitioner visited the deceased's residence-
 cum-studio at A-84, Prakash Mohalla, East of Kailash, New Delhi to
 collect her son's belongings and found several cheque books of several
 banks under the name of Kartik Gandhi and also several Life
 Insurances were found to have been made in the name of Kartik
 Gandhi in which Akshita Sekhri (one of the suspects) was a nominee.
 The petitioner states that she has lost faith on the local police and
 submits that the investigation be conducted by the CBI.
 B. STATUS REPORT OF DELHI POLICE 14. Inspector Rajendra Kumar Jain, Station House Officer, PS New Friends
 Colony filed a status report wherein it was inter alia stated as under: 15. Inspector Rajendra Kumar Jain, Station House Officer, PS New Friends
 Colony also filed second status report dated 21.05.2024 wherein it was
 inter alia stated as under: (C ) STATUS REPORT OF CBI 16. Respondent No.1/CBI also filed the reply and inter alia stated that the
 matter does not involve interstate or international ramifications and can
 be easily investigated by the State Police in a proper manner. It was
 further stated that CBI has limited manpower and resources and is
 already overburdened, inter alia, with the investigation of cases W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 9 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 entrusted to it by this Hon'ble Court & other Hon'ble High Courts and
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, as well as investigation of
 sensitive cases accepted on the request of respective State
 Governments. (D) SUBMISSIONS OF LEARNED SENIOR COUNSEL FOR
 PETITIONER 17. Mr. P.K. Dey, learned senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that
 pursuant to the deep-rooted conspiracy, Aditya Singh and other
 suspected persons took the deceased Kartik Gandhi to Leh where he
 and his car were pushed in a deep pit. He was brought to AIIMS Delhi
 where both his legs were amputated and he succumbed to his injuries
 on 15.01.24. The object of the conspiracy germinated in Delhi and its
 object was achieved in Delhi, and therefore, this Court has jurisdiction
 to decide the matter. Reliance has been placed upon Sunita Kumari
 Kashyap V. State Of Bihar (2011) 11 SCC 301 para 8 and Lee Kun
 Hee, President, Samsung Corporation, South Korea and Ors. V. State
 of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. (2012) 3 SCC 132. 18. Learned senior counsel further submitted that the conspiracy is a
 continuing offence. Reliance has been placed upon Yakub Abdul
 Razak Memon V. State Of Maharashtra (2013) 13 SCC 1. Learned
 senior counsel submitted that this Court has the jurisdiction to examine
 the entire case and do justice to the petitioner. It has also been
 submitted that this Court can also summon the report of the local
 police's investigation, if any and Aditya Singh's Injury Report to
 substantiate the case of the petitioner. Reliance has also been placed
 upon Navinchandra N. Majithia v. State of Maharashtra (2000) 7 W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 10 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 SCC 640. 19. Learned senior counsel submitted that one Ms. Akshita Sekhri, who
 was close to the suspected persons and her involvement, is also
 established. Initially, she was made to befriend the deceased and after
 the deceased objected, 2 FIRs were registered against the deceased, and
 he remained in custody for 3 months and the cases were hotly
 contested. In spite of this, the deceased made Akshita the nominee in 3
 insurance which raises grave suspicion. Surprisingly, in two Policies,
 she was shown as his sister and in one, as his wife. One policy was
 made in West Bengal and the other in Rajasthan. Apart from this,
 Akshita was also made the nominee in 14 bank accounts. She is also
 the nominee in debit cards made from one of these accounts where
 there was Personal Accident Insurance of Rs. 25 lakhs. She was made
 the nominee in the short span before the deceased's death. After the
 death of the deceased, where the money went needs to be thoroughly
 investigated as the policies were taken from West Bengal and
 Rajasthan. The deceased was taken from Delhi to Leh crossing several
 states and UTs. The details of their stay during the long journey also
 needs to be investigated. The CBI is competent to investigate from
 different states and the local police will be lacking in that regard. 20. Learned senior counsel further submitted that the petitioner sought the
 CBI's investigation to unearth the deep-rooted conspiracy. Learned
 senior counsel submitted that the deceased was taken from Delhi to Leh
 crossing 5-6 states and UTs and the local police cannot do its duty as
 per the procedure, which establishes that the police from an outside
 jurisdiction has to report to the local police, enter in the Daily Diary W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 11 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 of the local police and seek assistance. This embargo is not applicable
 to the CBI which can do its duty without the assistance of the local
 police in view of Section 5(4) of the DSPE Act, 1946. 21. Learned senior counsel further submitted that the call details, geo- location and the link between Aditya Singh and other suspected
 persons needs to be investigated as to who all were in touch among
 themselves to give the final shape to the murder. The CBI is competent
 and has well established labs for brain mapping, narco test, polygraph
 test etc. in which the local police is lacking and it may not be available
 to the state police to unearth the deep-rooted conspiracy. The case also
 requires forensic audit of various bank accounts and transactions apart
 from other digital evidences such as the multiple call record details,
 location details, emails, geo-locations and other digital
 correspondences to unearth the conspiracy. 22. Learned senior counsel submitted that the motive for the crime is well
 established as there are several criminal and civil cases pending since
 2009 in the district courts and this court between the petitioner and
 suspected persons. It has been submitted that the purpose of the
 conspiracy was two-fold; firstly, to break the petitioner physically and
 mentally so that she may sell her property to the suspected persons at
 throwaway prices and secondly, the financial fraud which includes
 several bank accounts, insurance policies, debit and credit cards and the
 honey trap of the son of the petitioner after the death. 23. Learned senior counsel submitted that the deceased Kartik Gandhi
 disclosed the true facts to the petitioner on 03.01.2024 and
 immediately, the petitioner made multiple calls to the police. Learned W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 12 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 senior counsel submitted that no police officials visited, while the
 deceased was in a conscious state and his statement was not recorded.
 Learned counsel submitted that Kartik Gandhi succumbed to the
 injuries on 15.01.2024 and the petitioner remained under shock for
 some time and therefore on 14.02.2024, the petitioner made a
 complaint to the CBI. Learned counsel submitted that that the statement
 made by the deceased to the petitioner is a dying declaration and
 probative value of the same can be ascertained only during the trial. 24. Learned counsel submits that the delay in the present case cannot be
 attributed to the petitioner. It has been submitted that the insurance
 policies were made from West Bengal and Rajasthan and 14 bank
 accounts were opened in Delhi. Learned senior counsel submitted that
 there would be no purpose of filing the complaint before the learned
 MM as learned MM has no power to direct the CBI to investigate the
 matter. (E) FINDINGS AND ANALYSIS 25. The petitioner has invoked the jurisdiction of this court under Article
 226 of Constitution of India. Perusal of Article 226 confers jurisdiction
 on the High Court to issue writ for the enforcement of any of the rights
 conferred by Part-III of the Constitution of India and to exercise power
 of judicial review to correct administrative decisions. The jurisdiction
 under Article 226 can be exercised to prevent the cases of abuse of
 power and neglect of duty by public authorities. The court while
 exercising the jurisdiction under Article 226 is expected to give to the
 parties, complete and substantial justice keeping in mind the principles
 of equity to promote honesty and fair play. 26. The petitioner in the present case has alleged that the death of her son
 Kartik Gandhi at Leh is a result of pre-planned conspiracy being
 hatched in Delhi and has its wings in various states and therefore the
 matter is required to be investigated by the CBI. There is no doubt to
 the proposition that the Constitutional Court has the power to direct the
 investigation by the CBI. It is relevant to note that the fair investigation
 is also a part of the Constitutional right guaranteed under Article 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India. The law requires that the
 investigation must be fair, transparent and judicious. 27. During the course of investigation, the voice of the victim or the next
 of kin of the victim has to be heard. It is also necessary that the
 confidence of the victim or the kin of the victim must be restored. It is
 no longer res integra that the Court can direct investigation or transfer
 investigation to an alternative agency. However, such orders are not
 matter of routine and are to be made considering the nature of
 allegations and with an aim to obtain justice. The Court can always
 direct investigation or transfer of investigation if it is satisfied on the
 basis of the available material that such a course will promote the cause
 of justice in a given case. If the direction of investigation by a
 particular agency brings complete justice, the Court may not hesitate in
 passing such an order. 28. In Central Bureau of Investigation vs. State of Rajasthan and
 Another (2001) 3 SCC 333, the Apex Court inter alia held that High
 Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India can invoke its
 jurisdiction though sparingly for giving direction to CBI to investigate
 in certain cases. 29. In State of West Bengal And Others vs. Committee for Protection of
 Democratic Rights, West Bengal And Others (2010) 3 SCC 571, the
 Apex Court inter alia held that the High Court in exercise of its
 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India direct the
 CBI to investigate the cognizable offence without the consent of the
 state. However, the Apex Court emphasized that while passing such an
 order, the Court must bear in mind certain self-imposed limitations for
 the exercise of these constitutional powers. It was further inter alia
 held that the very plenitude of the power under the said article requires
 great caution in its exercise. Further, the Apex Court inter alia held as
 under:- 30. If the facts of the present case are checked on the touch stone of the
 rule of caution laid by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of West W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 15 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 Bengal And Others (supra) this Court is of the considered view that
 the present case is not fit for making the reference to the CBI. The
 petitioner has alleged that the death of her son Kartik Gandhi is the
 result of a pre-planned conspiracy of certain suspected persons. The
 reason given is that the local police will not be able to do proper
 scientific investigation and investigation in other states where the facets
 of conspiracy exist. This Court finds it difficult to agree with this
 proposition of the complainant. The Delhi Police cannot be branded
 incapable of conducting the investigation in the present case. Delhi
 Police has conducted investigation in numerous serious and sensitive
 cases of national importance which had its facets not only within the
 country but in the foreign countries also. Thus, the request of the
 petitioner to direct the registration of FIR by the CBI merely on this
 ground cannot be accepted. However, in order to do complete justice, it
 is necessary that the allegations of the complainant should be
 thoroughly investigated. 31. The Constitutional Courts while exercising its power under Article 226 can always mould the prayer. It is a matter of record that in respect of
 the accident in which unfortunately, the son of the petitioner lost his
 life, a case FIR No. 01/2024 dated 01.01.2024 under Section 279 / 337 IPC was registered at PS Nubra, Leh. The status report filed by
 Inspector Rajendra Kumar Jain, Station House Officer, PS New Friends
 Colony indicates that the investigation in this case is still continuing.
 The question is whether the investigation of this case can be transferred
 to Delhi for further investigation in view of the fact that the
 complainant alleged that the conspiracy was hatched in Delhi. 32. In Navinchandra N. Majithia (Supra), a petition was filed before the
 High Court of Bombay inter alia praying to quash the complaint
 lodged by the respondent in Shillong or in alternative to issue a writ of
 mandamus to direct the State of Meghalaya to transfer the investigation
 being conducted by the officers of CID at Shillong to the Economic
 Offence Wing, General Branch of CID at Mumbai or any other
 investigating agency of the Mumbai Police. This order was challenged
 before the Apex Court. The Apex Court while answering this discussed
 in detail the jurisdictional aspect of the High Court in view of Article
 226(2) and inter alia held as under: 33. The bare perusal of the above said observations makes it clear that the
 Apex Court in the facts and circumstances transferred the investigation
 from Shillong to Mumbai and avoided remitting the case to the High
 Court so as to avoid further delay. This Court considers that in view of
 the observation of the Apex Court in Navinchandra N. Majithia (Supra), this Court has jurisdiction to transfer the investigation of case
 FIR No. 01/2024 dated 01.01.2024 under Section 279 / 337 IPC
 registered at PS Nubra, Leh to Delhi. 34. Hence, in view of the discussion made herein above, FIR No. 01/2024 W.P.(CRL) 710/2024 Page 18 of 19 Signature Not Verified Signed By:PALLAVI VERMA Signing Date:26.09.2024 19:52:41 dated 01.01.2024 under Section 279 / 337 IPC registered at PS Nubra,
 Leh is transferred for further investigation to Delhi. The Commissioner
 of Police is requested to assign this case for further investigation / re-
 investigation to Crime Branch, Delhi. The Crime Branch may take up
 the investigation de-novo and shall take into account the allegations of
 the complainant regarding the conspiracy and shall proceed in
 accordance with law. The police shall be at liberty to add any other
 provisions of the law, if the same has been made out on the basis of the
 investigation conducted. With these observations, the petition along
 with pending applications, if any, stands disposed of. DINESH KUMAR SHARMA, J
 SEPTEMBER 26, 2024/AR/KR..