Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi highlighted the issue of increased financial fraud in India while citing the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) Annual Report 2023-24 during the zero hour in Parliament on July 22, 2024. Chaturvedi asked for the Minister of Electronics and Information Technology’s attention on the matter, considering the issue’s impact on India’s population and the dearth of financial literacy in the country.

Digital frauds constitute the bulk of financial frauds: The RBI recorded financial frauds predominantly in the category of digital payments (card/internet) in terms of number and loan portfolio in terms of value.

“This issue is important because these frauds affect people who have access to technology but do not possess the technological know-how. There isn’t enough focus on financial literacy,” said Priyanka Chaturvedi, giving examples of incidents like phishing and impersonating calls.

MP urges MeitY to address state-sponsored hacking attacks: Chaturvedi also talked about state-sponsored hacking of journalists and politicians. She cited the Pegasus incident and Apple’s recent threat notification regarding an alleged hacking.

“I wrote to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology [MeitY] about this issue but have not yet received a response,” said Chaturvedi to the Speaker of the House.

On Apple’s hacking alert: In October 2023, multiple Opposition MPs, including Chaturvedi, shared an Apple alert on social media regarding a potential state-sponsored attack on their devices. Journalists, including Sriram Karri (Resident Editor, Deccan Chronicle) and Siddharth Varadarajan (founding editor, The Wire), also reported receipt of such an alert. Following the incident, Nikhil Pahwa, MediaNama Founder, spoke about why such notifications spark a debate on surveillance activities and how India’s Supreme Court could step in and reopen the pending Pegasus spyware case. To know more about his views, click here .

Have something to add to the story? Is there a story you would like us to cover? Leave an anonymous tip here , or ask us to file an RTI here .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event