SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Landlord has cut our water supply and sent us a legal notice. We are a poor family of a divorced mother and 2 kids. Please read, it would mean a lot.
DATE: 2020-08-14
SCORE: 2253
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/i9egm5/landlord_has_cut_our_water_supply_and_sent_us_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

We live in Delhi and are currently living on rent. Our landlord is a lady who brought us into their home as she considered my mother to be an elder sister to her. They lived upstairs, we lived in ground floor.

The rent was decided to be 14,000 INR per month. We happily paid each month on time. Then lockdown hit us and our source of income was lost to us. We couldn't make rent for April after which the landlord and us had a verbal agreement that we will pay around 10,000 per month due to this pandemic situation. 

They kept haggling us on a day to day basis for rent, even before date of payment. We did give them money regularly even by selling our things such as refrigerator and all. Rent was regularly made by us each month..

Then month of July came and we paid around 5,000 on 10th July and promised another 5,000 on 25th. They agreed but still kept haggling us everyday and soon, arguments and fights started to happen. They would come to our place and sit for hours, and would also call us at midnight. . On the 23rd, they shut down our water supply (under the pretext that the motor was faulty and they needed 800 rupees for repairs) and demanded us to vacate their premises. 

We said that we have nowhere to go, and paid them another 1,000 for repairs of the motor after borrowing from a good Samaritan.. However, they did not restore our water supply and started fighting us. 

Their maid would call us names, would assassinate our character, disrespect us and whatnot. Same for the landlady.. 

We stopped payments to them as they refused to reinstate our water supply and on the 12th of August, they brought a big man to our doorstep who demanded to know the date that we will give them the possession. My mother said that we are looking for a place but again, the landlady started fighting and so did her brother as well as their maid.. 

And yesterday they pasted a legal notice on our door that we had to pay them 70,000 in arrears for rent and 5,500 for the cost of the notice. If we stay in the premises after midnight of 12th of August (this notice itself was served at midnight of 13th August) , it would be deemed illegal trespassing and would attract a fine of 1,000 per day.

We have paid for rent with sweat and blood and now they are claiming that we never paid at all and we don't have water in our house. What sort of legal recourse do we have? We can't afford expensive lawyer fees.. Advise will be very appreciated..🙏

Update : Thank you very much for your kind responses people of r/India. You all will be glad to know that we have talked with our landlord this morning and after a lot of request have got some time to vacate the place. By 25th of August in all probability. 

We are looking for a cheap place, my sisters have helped me with some money and my son (who is a 12th class topper currently studying BA Hons in Hindu college. Yes, I'm a proud boastful mother 😊) has even been offered a very good job by one of the kind patrons on this site. This means a lot and I wish the best to you wonderful people. 

Some people are expressing skepticism because we do not have a bank account and that our post is fake. If you need proof, please DM me your email and I will send you pictures of the legal notice in question pasted on our door and the rent agreement as well as the picture of the empty space where our water motor used to be. About account, We do have a subsidy account (for gas subsidy) that is almost useless because my ex husband deals with us in cash. It used to be around a comfortable 24,000-28,000 per month before lockdown when his business was still going forward.. (guzaara bhatta/child support as one would say). There is no need to make joke with people online with sob stories. This can be verified by a Delhi moderator, as one person said. 

One person had also said that crowdfunding posts like mine should be banned and that begging shouldn't be allowed.. This was not very kind but I would kindly request you to please read my original post again and tag the line where I've mentioned that I need monetary help from anyone. I only asked for some advise on how to approach this and I have already refused money from a lot of kind people and will continue to do so, as there are needier people out there. Sookhi roti and bread was all my son ate yesterday but we choose not to seek crowdfunding. 

I would once again like to thank you so much for your kind words and support this means a lot to our family and your support is something I will remember my entire life. I am also glad that the landlord were kind enough to give us some time to leave without any legal action. I have updated this in my original post as well. 

Satyamev Jayate