Zomato has filed a case against fraudsters who duped a Bengaluru woman in the guise of being part of Zomato’s customer support, reports the Economic Times. The woman had done a Google search for Zomato’s customer service number since she wanted a refund, but instead, landed on a website, from where she got a number for a fake customer care center. The perpetrators assured her that she would receive a full refund via Google Pay and had to download an app called Any Desk for the same. After following some steps directed by the fraudster, all the money in her bank account got debited. The case was initially filed on July 25, and after preliminary investigation by the police, was registered on August 13.

A Zomato spokesperson told MediaNama that customer redressal is done only via its in-app chat or email . Zomato will also display this information on its mobile app soon. Here’s the complete statement:

“We never ever request users to share their personal/bank account details. For all their queries, they can reach out to us via email ( [email protected] ) or the chat support on the app. We are also sharing similar messages with our all users via our different channels of communication and are soon going to display it on our app as well.” – Zomato spokesperson

In May, an elderly woman in Pune was cheated of Rs 45,000 on the pretext of exchanging a product that she had purchased from an e-commerce website. The woman had received an incorrect order and made a call to the customer service centre, who then asked her for her bank account details and an OTP. The woman’s husband found out the next day that money from the account had been transferred to accounts in West Bengal and Gujarat.

The same month, an elderly man  from Pune was duped of Rs 1 lakh by a person posing as a financial accounting consultant. The man had booked round-trip tickets for his wife, but received a call from the fraudster saying that he didn’t mention the baggage weight. The caller then asked the man to send him his booking details and bank name along with an SMS code that he’d receive for verification. He also asked the man to download an application for “work purposes”. Six transactions worth Rs 9,994 were made from the man’s bank account some time later.

In April, a Jodhpur-based doctor was duped of Rs 2.62 lakhs on the pretext of claiming free gifts, after purchasing a laundry bag that cost just Rs 399. The doctor received a call from a woman, who convinced him to make the purchase through his credit card. Following that, he got a call from a person asking him to pay GST of Rs 5,580 as he had won a laptop worth Rs 72,000 as part of a ‘deal of the day scheme’ on the website.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event