The petitioner was not a party to the arbitration suit originally

initiated by the bank. He was impleaded during the pendency of the

suit. The bank initiated proceedings against the defendants, who were

originally arrayed in the party array on the premise that the

defendants colluded together and misappropriated the bank fund.

There was no allegation as set out against the petitioner in the suit.

Pending suit, an enquiry report under section 65 of the Kerala

Socieities Act, 1969 (hereinafter referred to as 'KCS Act' for short)

was concluded. In the report, the name of the petitioner along with

other committee members were referred. Accordingly in the suit, the

petitioner was impleaded as the 11th defendant. It is to be noted that

while impleading the petitioner, there was no specific allegations as

against the involvement of the petitioner for claiming loss on the side

of the bank. The petitioner was a Cashier in the bank. The bank

instituted the suit alleging that the Director of the bank, who was

worked as honarary Secretary, namely Sreedharan Nambiar granted

gold loan to certain persons showing inflated value of gold and

misappropriated the amount from the bank. It appears that

Sreedharan Nambiar committed suicide. The bank thereafter, filed a W.P.(C)No.38503 of 2010 -:2:- suit. It is appropriate to refer paragraph 4 of the plaint. 2. Thereafter, based on enquiry report under section 65 of

the KCS Act, the petitioner was impleaded. Though there was no

allegation against the petitioner in the plaint, taking note of the

enquiry report, the only allegation that could have been possible

against the petitioner is regarding dereliction of duties. The enquiry

report in fact is not conclusive as against the petitioner. It is only a

report for taking any action and before taking action, the petitioner

should be given an opportunity. However, in spite of such report, the

bank has not chosen to amend the pleadings to raise any claim against

the petitioner in the suit, except simply impleading the petitioner in

the party array with the pleadings referred as above. The petitioner

appeared and contested the suit. Thereafter, the Arbitrator passed

Ext.P1 award. The finding against the petitioner in arbitration award W.P.(C)No.38503 of 2010 -:3:- is as follows: This would shows that the petitioner has misappropriated the money

along with others. 4. The question is whether the petitioner had caused loss to

the society and misappropriated any amount. The main challenge in

this writ petition raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner is

that, no amount of evidence can be looked into without there being

any pleading. It is submitted that principles of natural justice have

been violated in the proceedings. The petitioner also relied upon the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra v.

Hindustan Construction Company [2010 ( 4) SC 518], Trojan &

Co. v. R.M.N.N.Nagappa Chettiar [AIR 1953 SC 235], State of

Orissa and another v. Mamata Mohanty [2011 3 SC 436] and the

petitioner also refers to mandate of Rule 67 of the KCS Rules and

submits that this was not followed assuming that the report was filed

along with impleading petition befofre the Arbitrator. It is to be noted

that the loss sustained by the bank never quantified in the pleadings.

The loss now calculated by the Arbitrator is without giving an

opportunity to the petitioner to contradict components, which relied

for calculating loss caused by the petitioner. In what manner the loss

was caused is not known to the petitioner until the award was passed.

It is seen from the award as referred above, the liability has been W.P.(C)No.38503 of 2010 -:6:- fastened taking note of the loan amount disbursed by the petitioner as

a Cashier without obtaining signature on those vouchers or against

forged signatures. Absolutely there is no such case in the pleadings

raised against the petitioner nor was it found out in the documents

produced. The primary aspect of giving an opportunity to the

petitioner to contradict the calculation was not followed at in the

adjudicatory process followed by the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator cannot

bypass such procedure and practice. It appears that a Joint Registrar

has approached the dispute as though he was conducting an enquiry

under the KCS Act. It is to be noted that enquiry is different from an

adjudication that contemplated under section 69 of the KCS Act. For

any adjudication, there must be pre-existing facts being alleged and

denied for adjudication. Without giving an opportunity to the parties

to raise pleadings and to defend, no award can be passed against a

party. In this case, there is a total violation of the principles of natural

justice as the petitioner was never put to notice regarding

quantification nor regarding the manner in which liability has to be

fastened on him. In the absence of raising any pleadings, as against

the petitioner, calling upon to defend. this court is of the view that any

quantification of liability is without any basis. In such circumstances, this court is of the view that the W.P.(C)No.38503 of 2010 -:7:- writ petition has to be allowed as authorities below committed

jurisdictional error in exercising its power by fastening liability on the

petitioner in a suit. Therefore, the writ petition is allowed as against

the liability on the petitioner. It is made clear that this court has not

interfered with the award passed against others. The writ petition is

disposed of as above. No costs. Sd/

 A.MUHAMED MUSTAQUE
 JUDGE

jm/