1. The lower Court made an order transmitting the decree for execution as against defendants 4 and 5. This appeal has been filed by defendant 5 who impeaches that order. The following pedigree may be found useful: 4. He admits that the fraud alleged by him is that of defendant 1, but says that it enables him to treat the decree as being alive even as against defendant 4. The first question that this appeal raises is, whether this contention is correct. He next urges that defendant 4 is prevented on the ground of res judicata from pleading that the decree is barred by the 12 year rule. The facts that need be referred to in this connexion are the following. The respondent filed on 1st November 1927, E.A. No. 1509 of 1927. Defendant 4 did not appear to contest it and an order was made on 18th April 1928, transmitting the decree for execution. It will be seen that this application of November 1927, was itself filed after the lapse of 12 years from the date of the decree. What the respondent urges is, that the order then made, involves the decision that the decree was nevertheless in force and that defendant 4 is precluded from now raising the plea that it is barred by the twelve year rule. I may observe that the question of res judicata is a new point raised by the respondent for the first time in appeal. He next contends that if defendant 4 is barred by res judicata, defendant 5 is equally barred on the principle of representation. The latter, besides controverting each of these positions, further asserts that the application as against him is in any event barred as it was filed more than three years-after his father's death. 5. The facts which are said to constitute fraud on the part of defendant 1 are these. I have said that the plaintiff, Sreenivasa assigned his decree to the respondent on 24th July 1914. Two petitions were subsequently filed, one by the respondent and the other by Lakshmana, defendant 1. The former applied that the transfer to him should be recognized; Lakshmana prayed that satisfaction of the decree should be recorded. His case was shortly this. He executed a mortgage in favour of one Ramanatha, allowing a part of the consideration to remain in his hands, with that part, Ramanatha discharged the decree but he fraudulently obtained its transfer in favour of the respondent. This was his. case and the first Court believing it, refused to recognize the transfer in favour of the respondent and dismissed his application, but somewhat strangely rejected also the application of Lakshmana. Both Lakshmana and the respondent being dissatisfied with these orders, filed appeals to the High Court. It found that defendant 1 did not make out his case and rejected his application and as a necessary consequence, recognized the transfer in favour of the respondent. The application for recording, satisfaction was made on 31st July 1914, and the judgment of the High Court was pronounced on 23rd January 1917. The respondent contends that the fraud of defendant 1 having been only then discovered, the time began to run under Section 48, Clause 2 (a), from that date. 6. I think I have stated the material facts and shall now proceed to consider the legal contentions raised. 7. Numerous cases have held that the word ."fraud" in this provision should be liberally interpreted. In Visalakshi Ammal v. Sivasankara Taker [1882] 4 Mad. 292, a fictitious transfer of his property made by a judgment-debtor, was held to amount to " fraud". In Annamalai Goundan v. Rangaswami Chetti [1883] 6 Mad. 365, eluding service of warrant and making applications which had the effect of staying execution, was held to be "fraud." In Venkayya v. Raghavacharlu [1899] 22 Mad. 320 locking up the house so as to prevent attachment of moveable property was similarly held to be "fraud." In Ramanathan Chettiar v. Mohideen Sahib A.I.R. 1924 Mad. 836 it was again held that the evasion of arrest was "fraud" within the meaning of Section 48. Having regard to these and other similar rulings, the appellant's learned Counsel did not contest the position that defendant 1's conduct in pleading a payment, found not to have been made, amounts to "fraud" under this section. 8. The question then is, does the fraud of defendant 1 extend the time even as against defendant 4? Section 48 cannot, in my opinion, mean that the fraud on the part of one judgment-debtor, gives a new starting point as against his co-debtors. The construction suggested for the respondent leads to manifest injustice. It is enacted by way of exception, that the judgment-debtor guilty of fraud cannot avail himself of the rule which says, that a decree shall not be executed after the lapse of the 12 years. Why should an innocent judgment-debtor suffer for the fraud of his co-debtor? The view of Sundara Iyer, J., in Abdul Khadir v. Ahammad Shaiwa Rowther [1912] 35 Mad. 670 which differed from that of Phillips, J., was upheld in the Letters Patent appeal by a Bench of three Judges : Abdul Khadir v.' Ahammad Shaiwa Rowther [1915] 33 Mad. 419. The following sentence embodies the opinion of Sundara Aiyar, J.: 9. Sir Arnold White, C. J., says in his judgment at p. 423 in the Letters Patent appeal, in which the other two Judges concurred: 10. It is argued for the respondent that the fraud here being of a different kind, 'the present case is distinguishable from the case cited. Defendant 1 in that case evaded arrest and it was held that his fraud did not give a fresh starting point as against defendant 2. The fraudulent act there could benefit only the party who committed it. But in the present case, it was falsely asserted that the decree became satisfied and that plea would enure to the benefit of not only the party who put it forward but also his co-judgment-debtors. This is the contention advanced, but the distinction adverted to does not affect the principle, namely, that it would be unjust that one party should suffer for the wrongdoing of another. 11. I may cite a Privy Council case John v. Dodwell & Co. [1918] A.C. 563 which though not a decision on the Limitation Act , is yet very instructive by analogy. 12. The respondents authorized the manager of their business at Colombo to draw cheques in their names upon their banking account for the purpose of the business. In 1909 and 1910 the manager bought shares on his own behalf through the appellants as brokers, and in payment of the price fraudulently gave them cheques drawn by him upon the respondent's account. The appellants received the amount of the cheques without fraud but with knowledge that the manager without apparent authority, was drawing for his own purposes upon the respondents' funds. The appellants paid over the proceeds of the cheques (except a small part) to the sellers of the shares. The respondents did not discover the fraud of their manager until October 1911; In January 1913, they sued the appellants in Ceylon to recover the amount of the cheques. 13. It was held that the claim fell within Section 11 of the Prescription Ordinance of Ceylon which allows a three year period in cases not expressly provided for, and that whether under English law or Roman - Dutch law as administered in Ceylon no new cause of action arose when the fraud was discovered, since the fraud was not that of the appellants nor of any person for whom the they were responsible. Viscount Haldane observes in his judgment thus: 14. The Supreme Court thought that it was sufficient to show that the appellants had obtained the cheques from a person who had committed a fraud and concealed it, although they themselves had not been guilty of fraud. In coming to that conclusion, they were influenced by the decisions of the English Courts of Chancery such as that of Lord Eldon in Huguenin v. Baseley [1806] 15 Ves. 180 who said, in his judgment: 15. Their Lordships of the Committee then point out that the doctrine of restitution of property by third persons deriving a benefit does not apply to a new cause of action arising from a concealed fraud. The law is tersely stated in the following passage: 16. I shall not cite any English cases recognizing this principle beyond merely referring to the judgment of Lord Alverston, C. J., in McCallum In Re: McCallum v. MoCallum [1901] 1 Ch. 143. The respondent's contention that the fraud of defendant 1 gives rise to a new cause of action even as against defendant 4 by reason of his having derived a supposed benefit, is thus clearly untenable and must be rejected. 17. For the respondent it is next argued, that defendant 1 must be deemed to have been the agent of defendant 2-3 and that the fraud of the agent gives a fresh starting point as against the principal. The facts relied on for this argument are these: The decree was passed in 1913 on a promissory note executed by defendant 1 in 1910. The suit itself was filed in 1912. There was a partition in 1911 between Lakshmanan Chetty and Ramaswami Chetty. It contains no reference to the debt in question, but there is a general clause that each party is to be liable for his own debts. It is now argued that this deed makes defendant 1 liable for the debt in question and that by implication he must be deemed to have been constituted defendant 3's agent for paying, it off. It is next asserted that the debt became merged in the decree of 1913, and that when defendant 1 falsely pleaded that it had been discharged, it must be deemed that he was acting not only on his own behalf but also on behalf of his principal defendant 3. We must point out that this contention has been for the first time raised in this Court. There is not a scrap of evidence to show that defendant 1 was the agent of defendant 3. The partition dead does not in the least avail the respondent. It merely accounts for defendant 3 not having taken any steps in regard to this decree. It-did no more than provide that each of the executants was to be liable for his own debts and this debt was not even specified. When subsequently the decree' was passed against both, defendant 3 as between themselves was in a position to say: 18. I fail to see how any agency can be implied from these facts. If the respondent wished to rely upon any such ground, he ought to have made below a. specific allegation and proved it by evidence. This contention therefore must be rejected. 19. I shall now proceed to deal with the contention of res judicata raised. As I have pointed out in an earlier paragraph, the assignee decree-holder contends that defendant 4, by reason of a certain previous order, is now precluded from pleading, that the execution is barred under the 12 year rule. If this contention fails, the further question does not arise, whether defendant 5 is also barred by res judicata on the theory of constructive representation. The respondent's argument on the point of res judicata I have already sat forth. The order which is said to operate as res judicata is the one made on Execution Petition 1509 of 1927. It was filed on 1st November 1927, that is, more than 14 years after the date of the decree. On 4th January 1928, the Judge endorsed upon this the word "notice" and on 18th April 1928 ha made the final order "send." This means that the Judge directed the decree to be transmitted. The respondent's argument is that the order then made decides by implication, that the decree was in force on the date of the previous petition. His argument is so far sound, but how does it follow, from this that the present application is not barred? Now let us look at the previous petition to find out what was decided on the former occasion. The application presented was in the prescribed tabular form. In the column headed " Date of decree" the respondent gave two dates : (1) 19th February 1913, (2) 23rd January 1917. This is obviously misleading. How can the decree have two dates? It may be stated (with the information we now possess) that the second date happens to be that, when the High Court recognized the assignment in his favour. Under no other column in this petition does he again refer to this date. Nor does his application contain any hint that it was on; that date that his right was recognized. The Judge, as is usual in such cases, trusted to his clerks. They endorsed on the docket of the petition : . D. D, 23rd January 1917; D. L. P., 28th November 1924; More than one year. 20. The Judge, without further, scrutiny, ordered "notice." I may explain that D. D. means "date of decree" and D. L. P. stands for "date of last petition." The respondent having raised the point of res judicata for the first time in this Court no formal evidence is forthcoming as to what these symbols mean. What then happened is however quite manifest. As the Judge had no reason to suspect that the decree was not one of 1917 the only point that mattered was, what was the interval of time between the petition before him and the previous one? That being more than a year, the Judge, in the usual course, ordered notice, and defendant 4 having failed to appear on the due date and contest the petition, the Court ordered execution. Eight or wrong this order involves the decision that the decree was then executable and defendant 4 is estopped in any proceeding from asserting the contrary. 21. But is there any implied finding either that there was fraud or that it was discovered on 23rd January 1917? There was not a word said about fraud; in deed, not the remotest suggestion of it. On the contrary, the decree-holder, misled the Court (wilfully or not, it; matters little) into believing that the decree was passed in 1917. Are we now to assume that the previous order had the effect of holding that, contrary to patent facts, the proper date of the decree is 23rd January 1917? Fortunately, we are not asked to proceed on any such absurd hypothesis. It is not in regard to the date of the decree that the ground of res judicata is urged. But what the respondent contends is, that we must hold that in the previous order is involved the finding, that owing to fraud, the time was extended. This contention is utterly untenable. I may in this connexion refer to a circumstance which, in my opinion, is most significant. E.A. No. 831 of 1924 is one of the previous execution applications filed by the respondent. It was filed on 1st August 1921, that is before the expiry of 12 years from the date of the decree. In that petition, as in those that followed, he mentions the date of the decree as being 10th February 1913 as well as 23rd January 1917. The 12 year period not having then expired, it was inconceivable that the decree-holder was then relying upon any fraud. This shows how utterly futile the argument is, that by referring to the date, 23rd January 1917, in the latter petition, (that is E.A. No. 1509 of 1927 filed on 1st November 1927) the decree-holder intended to rely upon the ground of fraud. 22. Having made this observation I shall now approach the question from a some-what different standpoint. The previous application defendant 4 could have resisted by pleading limitation. Had he appeared in Court and said that the execution was barred, the matter would have been enquired into. That being then a defence open to him, the former order must be held to involve the decision. that the application was not barred. He cannot now assert that the previous application was in fact barred by limitation. He is debarred from showing that and nothing more. Can the former order be said to involve any adjudication as to the starting point? The date of the previous petition is, as I have said, 1st November 1927. The order, for aught we know, might have proceeded upon the footing that the starting point was in 1915; even in which case the former petition of 1927 would be in time, but the present one of 1928 would not. Conversely, the previous order might similarly be said to involve that the starting point was somewhere in 1926, in which case it would be open to the plaintiff to contend that the decree would not be barred till 1938. In other words, the previous order is not inconsistent with there being an implied decision, that the starting point was any one of the numerous (365 by 12) days, that intervened between 1st November 1915 and 1st November 1927. The argument is clearly unsound and must be rejected. Certainty is essential for the application of the rule of res judicata and the Court would not prevent the re-agitation of a matter whore it is not certain that the previous decision proceeded on a particular ground: B. Bayyan Naidu v. B. Suryanarayana [1913] 37 Mad. 70: 23. This principle of res judicata is applied also in In Re: Alsop and Joy's Contract [1889] 61 L.T. 213. 24. I may also extract the following passage from the judgment of Mellish, L. J., in In Re: Bank of Hindustan, China & Japan (Alison's case) (15): 25. Mr. T.M. Krishnaswami Aiyar for the respondent contends that any matter which might and ought to have been made a ground of defence on the former occasion should be deemed to have been directly and substantially in issue : see Section 11 , Expl. 4, Civil P.C. I fail to see how this rule can help him. How could defendant 4 be expected to answer a charge of fraud not made? The rule refers to a ground of defence which might and ought to have been raised, but any such defence can relate only to a matter either expressly or impliedly alleged. Let me take an example.: A sues B for the first instalment due under a bond, and though the claim on the face of it is barred, succeeds in obtaining an ex parte decree. Let us suppose that he could have relied on an acknowledgment in writing signed by B, but that it was not referred to for some reason in the plaint. He then 'brings a second suit for a subsequent instalment. Can he assert that the previous ex parte decision has impliedly decided that the writing produced then for the first time amounts to a valid acknowledgment? Can he contend that it was decided by implication in the former suit, that the writing furnishes the starting point from which limitation is to be computed? The answer is plainly in the negative. The present case does not differ in substance from this illustration. 26. The rule referred to, means this and nothing more, that defendant 4 was bound to resist the previous petition, on all the grounds possible for him to urge according to his knowledge at that time, at the risk of being debarred from relying on them in any subsequent proceeding. The application of the rule may be thus illustrated. A, a Hindu, dies leaving a widow and a brother, B. The widow sues B for recovery of certain property alleging that it was the self-acquired property of her husband. B alleges that the property was joint family property and that on the death of A he became entitled to it by right of survivorship. The Court finds that the property was the self-acquired property of A and decrees the widow's claim. Subsequently B sues the widow to recover the same property from her, claiming the same as a devisee under A's will. The suit is barred as res judicata, for B might and ought to have set up the claim under the will as a ground of defence in the former suit. When a plaintiff claims an estate, and that defendant, being in possession, resists that claim, ha is bound to resist upon all the grounds that it is possible for him according to his knowledge then to bring forward. Srimutt Rajah Moottoo Vijaya v. Katama Natchiar [1866] 11 M.I.A. 50. 27. Similarly, the present defendant 4 cannot be permitted on any ground to show that the decree was not in full force on the date of the former petition. But what the respondent contends is something very different; he says that defandant 4 is debarred from showing that the decree is not alive when the present application was filed. 28. Let me go back to the example given. The first suit decided that the property belongs to A's widow and not to B. That is the decision in the suit and the relief granted is based on that decision. B cannot urge on any ground in a subsequent proceeding, that the property is his. Apart from the relief granted, there is an adjudication of the issue, express or implied, that A and B became divided. That question again is barred as res judicata. But to bring out the respondent's point, I shall vary the facts of this example. Suppose that A's widow was in a position to, but did not, rely upon a writing that evidences the separation she had alleged. She now brings a second suit to enforce a covenant in it by B, to pay a stated sum to A's husband. B disputes the genuineness of that writing. Can it be maintained that the previous decision contains an implied finding in favour of this document? Such an argument is fanciful, but this is on all fours with what the respondent urges. The point does not admit of serious doubt, but I have dwelt upon it at this length, as the opposite of what I am holding has been very strongly contended for. 29. The respondent's contention fails on yet another ground. When the judgment-debtor has no sufficient notice of the right claimed against him, the order passed in execution proceedings cannot operate as res judicata. In Narayana Pattar v. Gopalakrishna Pattar [1905] 28 Mad. 355 the notice to B on A's execution application did not specify that interest was claimed; held: that the order granting interest ex parte had not the force of res judicata, so as to estop B from disputing the claim in subsequent proceedings. To the same effect is the ruling in Ramasami Naik v. Ramasami Chetty [1907] 30 Mad. 255. In Sheik Sudan v. Ramchandra Bhunjgaya [1887] 11 Bom. 537 the application went beyond the terms of the decree and West, J., observes: 30. The cases relied on by the respondent do not really help him. What they decide is, that the judgment-debtor is bound by the order previously made. He is precluded from showing that it is wrong. The cases generally deal with the three year rule of limitation. The starting point being the previous application, if that was by the former order held to be in time, the judgment-debtor cannot show that it was in fact barred. He is bound by the former decision right or wrong, and if the previous petition was in time, that furnishing the starting point, the second one filed within three years of it is necessarily not barred. This is all that the rulings relied upon by the respondent decide. In the present case we are concerned with the twelve year rule of limitation. The point to note is that previous petition, unlike in the other case, does not furnish the starting point. To maintain that the present application is out of time the judgment-debtor has no need to show that the former order is wrong. Ho can accept it as right and still contend that the present petition is barred. This fundamental difference the argument of the respondent ignores. Mungul Persahd Dichit v. Grija Kant Lahiri [1882] 8 Cal. 51 and Rajah of Ramnad v. Velusami Thevar A.I.R. 1921 P.C. 23 do not therefore support the respondents' contention. The same remark applies to Rajit Giripathi v. Bhavani Shanker A.I.R. 1924 Mad. 673. I fail to see what bearing any of the three following eases cited has on the point to be decided: 31. The only decided case on the point is Dakshinamurthi Pillai v. Vedarnurthy Mudaliar A.I.R. 1927 Mad. 842 to which ray learned brother was a party. In that a contention similar to the one now alleged for the respondent was raised and was summarily rejected. 32. For the various reasons I have given, the ground of res judicata taken by the respondent fails. 33. If defendant 4 himself is not precluded from raising the plea, the question whether defendant 5 is so precluded on the principle of representation does not arise. Nor is it necessary, in the view I take, to deal with the point raised by the appellant that the application as against him is, in any event, barred by time as it was filed more than three years after his father's death. 34. In the result, the appeal of defendant 5 is allowed with costs throughout. Madhavan Nair, J. 35. This appeal arises out of application E.P. No. 1028 of 1928 made by the assignee decree-holder in O.S. No. 10 of 1912 on the file of the Subordinate Judge's Court, Tuticorin, for the transmission of the decree for concurrent execution to the sub-Courts at Ramnad, Madura, Devakotta, Sivaganga and Dindigul as the properties of the defendants are situate within the jurisdiction of those Courts. 36. The decree was passed on 10th February 1913 and the application for transmission was presented on 1st October 1928, i. e., more than 12 years after the decree. The judgment-debtor objected that the execution of the decree was barred by Section 48 (1), Civil P. C, as more than 12 years had elapsed since the date of the decree and the decree-holder had made prior application for execution. The assignee decree-holder claimed exemption from the bar of limitation under sub Clause 2 (a) of the section. The relevant portions of Clauses 1 and. 2, Section 48, Civil P.C., are as follows: 37. The contention of the assignee decree-holder in the lower Court was that his application was not barred by time as the execution of the decree was prevented by the fraud of defendant 1 definitely established on 23rd January 1917, i. e., "at some time within 12 years immediately before the date of his application," that is 1st October 1928, as required by Clause 2, Section 48, Civil P.C. This contention was upheld by the lower Court and the transmission of the decree as prayed for was ordered. 38. This appeal has been filed by defendant 5 against that order. It may be stated here that in this Court the respondent, i. e. the assignee decree-holder, has not only relied on the contention urged in the lower Court, but has also sought to support the lower Court's order by raising another contention, namely that the appellant is precluded from raising the present contention by a previous order dated 4th January 1928, passed by the Subordinate Judge on E.A. No. 1509 of 1927, dated 1st November 1927, for transmitting the decree for execution to the Madura Sub-Court. 39. To appreciate the arguments of the parties in all their fulness it is necessary to state a few facts. The plaintiff in O.S. No. 10 of 1912, one Srinivas Naick, obtained a decree for Rs. 28,283-12-0 due on a promissory note dated 15th September 1910, and executed by defendant 1 in favour of the plaintiff for Rs. 21,000. The decree was against defendant 1 and the family properties of all the defendants. There were four defendants to the suit. Defendant 5 was not a party to it. The relationship of the defendants to each other appears from the following table: 23rd January 1917. 52. To this application defendant 4 was a party not only on his own behalf, but also as the legal representative of his deceased brother, defendant 3, but defendant 5, the present appellant was not a party at he had not been brought on record as the legal representative of defendant 3 at that date. The following endorsements made by the Court appear on the back of the application: 53. There was some discussion at the Bar as to what D D and D L P meant. D D refers obviously to the date of the decree (sea Col, 3 of the application) and D L P means the date of the last application which was, B.A. No. 1378 of 1921, dated 28th November 1921. The copy of the notice sent to the judgment-debtors has not been produced; but it may be taken to be the usual notice under Order 21, Rule 22, Civil P.C., as required by Rule 138, Civil Rules of Practice which states that in an application for transmission notice of the application shall be given in all cases in which under Order 21, Rule 22 notice of application for execution is required. Under Order 21, Rule 22, the Court executing the decree is directed to issue a notice to the person against whom execution is applied for requiring him to show cause, on a date to be fixed, why the decree should not be executed against him. We may take it therefore that the notice sent to defendant 4 in this case simply asked him to show cause on a specified date why the decree should not be executed against him. On the day fixed for hearing, the judgment-debtors on whom the notice had been served did not appear, and the Court passed an order Send' as appears from the endorsement on the back of the application. Afterwards nothing further was done on this application. It is on this application and the order passed on it that the argument of constructive res judicata is based by the respondent. 54. The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code having a bearing on the question are Section 11 and Expl. 4 to that section which run as follows: 55. Section 11 : 56. Explanation 4: 57. Having regard to those provisions the respondent puts his argument in this way: on the receipt of the notice issued to him to show cause why the decree should not be executed, defendant 4 had an opportunity of appearing before the Court and pleading that the execution of the decree was barrel at that date under Section 48, Civil P. C, as the application for execution was presented 12 years after the decree and that the assignee decree-holder could not rely on the fraud of defendant 1 to claim exemption from the bar of limitation against the other judgment-debtors; and since he failed to raise this plea which he ought to have raised as a ground of defence, it should be presumed that the Court when it passed the order 'send' finally decided the question of limitation against the judgment-debtors thereby holding impliedly that fraud within the meaning of Clause 2, Section 48, was found to have been committed by defendant 1 on 23rd January 1917 and that by his fraud the execution of the decree was prevented against all the judgment-debtors and that the. assignee-decree-holder has a period of 12 years to execute the decree commencing from 23rd January 1917. It is argued that since all these matters should be deemed to have been decided by the Court when it passed its order 'send' in E.P. No. 1509 of 1927, it is not open to defendant 4 to raise those very contentions in the present application having regard to Expl. 4, Section 11 , Civil P.C. It is further urged that since defendant 4 who represents the estate of the deceased defendant 3 is precluded from raising the above contentions, defendant 5 the present appellant is also bound though he was not a party to E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 since he also is a representative of the deceased defendant 3 and the estate which he represents should be deemed to have been sufficiently represented by defendant 4 when the Court passed its order so as to make that order binding on the estate, i. e., on all its representatives. This means that the previous order becomes binding on the present appellant through defendant 4. The appellant meets these contentions with the argument that the rule of constructive res judicata as explained in Clause 4, Section 11 , Civil P. C, does not apply to execution proceedings, that the order on E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 has not impliedly decided that the starting point of limitation is 23rd January 1917, and that even if defendant 4 is bound by the order, the appellant, defendant 5 is not in any way bound by it. I shall deal with both those arguments separately. 58. On the question whether the principle of constructive res judicata as contained in Clause 4, Section 11 , Civil P. C, applies to execution proceedings, the following decisions of the various High Courts were brought to our notice : Lahshmanan Chetty v. Kuttayan Chetty [1901] 24 Mad. 669, Narayana Pattar v. Gopalakrishna Pattar , Ramasami Naik v. Ramasami Chetty , Allupati Kopila Patro v. Allupati Kasinadha Patro [1907] 17 M.L.J. 310, Somasundaram Pillai v. Chokkalingam Pillai [1917] 40 Mad. 780, Subramania Aiyar v. Raja Rajeswara Dorai [1917] 40 Mad. 1016, Chidambaram Chetti v. Kandasami Goundan , Nachiappa Chettiar v. Subbier A.I.R. 1923 Mad. 505, Kandaswami Chettiar v. Maruda Pillai A.I.R. 1924 Mad. 145, Govinda Menon v. Krishna Mannadiar , Rajit Giripathi v. Bhavani Shankar, Kaliya Perumal Naidu v. Subramanian Chettiar A.I.R. 1928 Mad 203, Lakshmanan Chetty v. Palaniappa Chetty A.I.R. 1928 Mad. 1052, Subramanian Chettiar v. Ramanathan Chettiar A.I.R. 1929 Mad. 199, Sheik Budan v. Ramchandra Bhunjgaya, Mahadeo v. Trimbakbhat [1919] 50 I.C. 972, Ramchandra Venkatesh v. Shrinivas Krishna A.I.R. 1922 Bom. 238, Gadigappa Chanbasappa v. Shidappa Gurushidappa A.I.R. 1924 Bom. 495, Kishan Sahai v. Aladad Khan [1891] 14 All. 64, Behari Lal v. Majid Ali [1897] 24 All. 138, Kalian Singh v. Jagan Prasad [1915] 27 I.C. 950, Kalian Singh v. Jagan Prasad [1915] 37 All. 589, Phul Chand v. Kandhyalal A.I.R. 1922 All. 247, Sheo Mangal v. Hulsa A.I.R. 1922 All. 413, Dwarka Das v. Muhammad Ashfaqullah A.I.R. 1925 All. 117, Dip Prakash v. Dwarka Prasad A.I.R. 1926 All. 71 and Prithi Mahton v. Jamshed Khan A.I.R. 1922 Pat. 289. 59. There is no question that the general principles of law underlying the doctrine of res judicara apply to execution proceedings. This has been decided in a series of cases by the Privy Council: see Delhi and London Bank Limited v. Orchard [1877] 3 Cal. 47, Rama Kirpal v. Rup Kuari and Beni Ram v. Nanhumal in the loading case of which Rama Kirpal v. Rup Kuari the following observations occur in the judgment delivered by Sir Barnes Peacock: 60. In England the principle of res judicata. has been applied to proceedings in the same suit: see Pearth v. Marriott [1883] 22 Ch. D. 182.. In that case in the Court of Appeal Jessol, M.R., observed thus: 61. And whether the adjudication operates as a bar in proceedings had in continuation of the same suit or in a separate and distinct suit, the effect is the same: the matter passes in rem judicatum. 62. The decisions of the Privy Council show that, though Section 11 , Civil P.C., does not in terms apply to an execution proceeding because the question arises in the same suit and not in a second suit-; the general principles of law on which the section is based should be held to apply' to execution as otherwise there would be no end to litigation. I think for the same reason the principle underlying Expl. 4 to the section should also he held applicable to execution proceedings. It is hardly necessary to mention this specially, as Expl. 4 is only an amplification of Section 11 and both the section and the explanation are based on the same general principles of law that a matter once decided by a competent Court should not be agitated again between the same parties; but I am drawing special attention to it because it was very strenuously argued before us that the principle underlying the doctrine of res judicata, when applied to execution proceedings, should strictly be confined to cases where the question at issue was expressly decided in the prior application as in the Privy Council cases just; noticed and should not be extended to cover cases where the question at issue may be said to have been impliedly or constructively decided in the course of the prior application. In other words, the argument the principle underlying Expl. 4, Section 11 , Civil P.C., should not be applied to execution proceedings at all. It is clear to me that though there may be found statements in support of this position in some of the judgments of our High Courts, the decisions of the Privy Council do not lend any support to this contention. In my opinion this contention is clearly untenable in view of the decisions of the Privy Council in Mungul Pershad Dichit v. Grija Kant Lahiri and Rajah of Ramnad v. Velusami Thevar which directly bear on this question. 63. In Mungal Pershad Dichit v. Grija Kant Lahiri the loading case on this point, the Judicial Committee held that: 64. It is clear from the judgment that the question whether the petition was barred by limitation, was not raised and expressly decided when the prior order was passed, but their Lordships held that since there was an order passed against the judgment-debtor the point must necessarily be taken to have been decided against him by implication. 65. In Rajah of Ramnad v. Velusami Thevar when an assignee of a decree applied to be brought on the record and to have the decree executed, execution was allowed though the judgment-debtors resisted the application on the ground that it was barred by limitation. In the order granting execution the plea of limitation was not expressly dealt with-it was held by their Lordships that in a. subsequent application the plea of limitation could not be raised, for it must be taken to have been decided in the order on the prior application. In that case no doubt the plea of limitation was taken but their Lordships remark: 66. As remarked by Fawcett, J., in Gadigappa Chanbasappa v. Shidappa Gurushidappa : 67. I think this case demolishes completely the argument of the appellant that the principle of Expl. 4, Section 11 , should not be applied to execution proceedings. 68. In Madras, Expl. 4 has always been applied to execution proceedings. In the latest decision, in Rajit Giripathi v. Bhavani Sankar, full effect is given to the Privy Council decision in Rajah of Ramnad v. Velusami Thevar . The Bombay High Court also has in its latest decision in Gadigappa Chanbasappa v. Shidappa Gurushidappa , applied' Expl. 4 to execution proceedings, though in some of its prior decisions [sea Mahadeo v. Trimbakbkat and Ramchandra Venkatesh Sholapur v. Srinivas Krishna, Kulkarni ], it showed an inclination to hold that the principle of res judicata applied to execution proceedings does not necessarily involve the result that the point which is not heard and, decided but which might and ought to have been raised, must be treated as necessarily decided as under Rule 11 of 'the Code. The Allahabad High Court also has held [sea its latest decision Dip Prakash v. Dwaraka Prasad ], that the principle of Expln. 4, Section 11 would apply to execution proceedings, though in some of its earlier decisions, such as Kalyan Singh v. Jagan Prasad , Letters Patent appeal against Kalian Singh v. Jagan Prasad and Sheo Mangal v. Hulsa , it expressed opinions to the contrary. The observation in Prithi Mahton v. Jamshed Khan that the special rules laid down in Expl. 4, Section 11 , which goes beyond the doctrine of res judicata, ought not to be applied generally to execution cases, is obiter. 69. It follows from the above decisions that, though neither Section 11 , Civil P.C., nor any of its explanations, can in terms apply to an execution proceeding be-cause the question arises in a proceeding which is a continuation of the same suit, and not in a second suit, yet where a 'point has bean decided in execution by a competent Court after notice to the counter-petitioner either expressly or by necessary implication, that decision is binding upon the parties in subsequent execution proceedings. - We in this case are concerned only with the latter part of this rule which has special reference to what is generally, though inaccurately, called the doctrine of constructive res judicata. Where a point has been decided expressly in a prior proceeding, obviously there cannot be much difficulty in applying the principle of res judicata; but the difficulty arises where the point has not been directly decided but is to be deemed to have been by implication decided when the order was passed, as he who ought to have raised the point in defence failed to do so when he had an opportunity of doing it. This is the reason why in various cases learned Judges have observed that the principle of constructive res judicata should be applied with great caution in execution proceedings and, this is also the reason why decisions of the same Court on similar points sometimes appear to be (inconsistent. Pitfalls in the application of the rule of constructive res judicata in (execution proceedings may be avoided if, as pointed out in Subraminia Ayyar v. Raja Rajeswara Dorai , we keep steadily in view the principle that the party who is sought to be affected by the bar of res judicata should have notice of the point likely to be decided against him and should have an opportunity of putting forward his contentions against such a decision. The following decisions of our Court will serve as illustration to this rule. In Narayana Pattar v. Gopalakrishna Pattar an application was made for restitution, claiming interest thereon at 12 per cent. The notice served on the respondent in the proceedings did not contain any intimation of the claim for interest. Execution was ordered by way of arrest, but as process was not paid no further action was taken. When the applicant again moved the Court the respondents who did not appear on the first occasion appeared and objected to the grant of interest. It was held that the notice issued to, them, such as it was, was insufficient to fix them with the knowledge of the claim for interest and thereby bar them raising any controversy in the matter on their failing to appear on the day fixed. Following this decision, it was pointed out in Ramasami Naick v. Ramasami Chetti that where application is not for the execution of something which has been directed to be done by any decree or order so as ipso facto to carry information as to what the claim made and the relief prayed for are, notice to the judgment-debtor without inserting the specific prayers will not render the order made upon such application res judicata : see also Chidambaram Chetti v. Kandasami Goundan . 70. I shall now consider how far the appellant in the present case is precluded from raising his present contentions by the order "send" passed in E.P. No. 1509 of 1927. It is said that he ought to have resisted the passing of that order when he received the notice of the application, and because he failed to do so he should not be allowed to raise his present contentions. I have already drawn attention to the notice served upon defendant 4. There is no reference in it to Section 48, Civil P.C., nor is there any indication in it that the assignee decree-holder her intended to rely on the fraud committed by defendant 1 to claim against him and all the others exemption from the 12 years' rule of limitation. That petition was filed within three years of the prior application. No one could have known at that time what use the assignee decree-holder was going to make of the date 23rd January 1927, mentioned in it as one of the dates of the decree in column 3. Did he really intend to treat it as the data of the decree, or did he intend then, as ha now argues, to indicate by it that he was going to rely on the fraud of defendant 1 under Clause 2, Section 48, Civil P.C., or did he intend to trait it as the starting point of limitation in some other way? There was not a suggestion of fraud on the part of defendant 1 in the notice sent to defendant 4. 71. In what light is the insertion of the date 23rd January 1917, in that application to be understood? It is clearly not the date of the decree, for we know, and column. 3 also states it, that the date of the decree is 10th February 1913. There could have been therefore no mistake about the date of the decree nor do I think it is possible to hold that the decree-holder should have necessarily intended, by inserting that date, to show that he was referring to the fraud of defendant 1 which would entitle him to claim exemption from the bar of limitation as against' the other defendants. This becomes quite obvious from the fact that E.P. No. 831 of 1924, also a prior execution application which was filed within 11 years after the decree - the 23rd January 1917-is referred to in Col. 3 along with the other two dates, the only difference being that on this occasion these are described as "decree numbers" instead of the "date of the decree" as in E.P. No. 1509 of 1927. The importance of this application lies in the fact that at that time there was no need for the assignee decree-holder to draw any attention to the fraud of defendant 1 or to Section 48, Civil P.C., as the application, being within 11 years after the date of the decree, was not barred by the 12 years' rule of limitation. The mention of this specific date was in no way of any use to the assignee-decree-holder at that time; and yet he referred to it then and repeated it again in E.P. No. 1509 of 1927. But it is clear to my mind that he did not till this moment intend to use it for the specific purpose to support which he use it now. Why should we be asked to assume that 23rd January 1917, should necessarily be repeated as the data of the fraud? As pointed out by the appellant it was open to the assignee decree-holder, if he intended then, to make use of Clause 2 in his favour to assign the fraud to any date during the period of the 12 years immediately prior to the date of E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 commencing from 1915. The appellant is not expected to imagine a possible case that might be put forward on behalf of the assignee decree-holder and to answer it in response to the notice which gave no indication whatever as to what the decree-holder was going to argue in respect of this point. In these circumstances it is impossible to hold that the order on the prior execution application impliedly decided that owing to the fraud of defendant 1 the assignee decree-holder obtained an extension of 12 years to execute the decree from 23rd January 1917. The notice simply stated why the decree should not be executed against him; there was absolutely nothing in the notice to show that the assignee decree-holder was contemplating to invoke the aid of Section 48, Clause 2, Civil P. C, in his favour. If the notice served by the respondent had alleged fraud as a ground for claiming exemption from the bar of limitation, then his argument, that the appellant should have raised his present contention in E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 should certainly prevail. It is obvious that the ground of defence that a party ought to raise in the application of the rule of constructive res judicata can have reference only to the matter alleged against him as a ground of attack. With respect to that all the grounds of defence that he has should be pleaded. As fraud was not referred to in the prior proceedings it cannot be said that the appellants ought to have then raised with respect to it all his present defences within the meaning of the rule in Expl. 4 Section 11 . 72. As he failed to oppose the application on the receipt of the notice it is not open to defendant 4 now to plead that the application, E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 is barred by the 12 years' rule; the order then passed impliedly decided that the decree was then executable and defendant 4 cannot be allowed to urge that that order was wrong in any subsequent proceeding. To that extent the bar of res judicata will operate against him; but. that does not mean that he is precluded from contending that the present execution application is affected by the 12 years' rule. For the reasons already mentioned, the order then passed cannot be interpreted as involving any decision as regards the starting point of limitation. It is not necessary for maintaining the present application that the appellant should prove that the order on the prior application was wrong. This feature distinguishes the present case from Mungul Pershad Dichit v. Girja Kant Lahiri where the only point for decision whether the decree was barred by the three years' rule of limitation was held to have been impliedly decided in the order on the prior application. In this connexion attention may be drawn to the decision of this Court in Dakshinamurthy Pillai v. Vedamurthy Mudaliar . In that case the decree of the High Court, which was sought to be executed, was dated 23rd February 1911. One of the questions was whether E.P. No. 150 of 1924, dated 4th April 1924, was within time. It was argued that since in a prior E.P. No. 130 of 1923, dated 18th July 1923, which was also put in more than 12 years from the date of the decree, no objection on the ground of limitation had been taken by the appellant, he was barred by res judicata from pleading that bar to any subsequent execution petitions but the argument was not accepted and the Court made the following observation in the judgment which may well be applied to the present case also: 73. It follows therefore that defendant 4 is not barred by the plea of constructive res judicata from raising his present contentions. 74. The law is well settled that a prior decision to have the force of res judicata must not be wanting: 75. As pointed out in Bommidi Bayyan Naidu v. Bommidi Suryanarayana certainty is essential for the application of the rule of res judicata and the Court would not prevent the re-agitation of a matter where it is not certain that the previous decision proceeded on a particular ground: see also In Re: Bank of Hindustan, China and Japan (Alison's case). 76. Sir J. Mellish, L.J., observed: 77. In this case it is clear from what I have said that it is impossible to state, with any precision, the ground or grounds on which the decision as regards limitation implied in the order 'send' passed on the prior application is based, i. e., whether it is based on the ground that the date of the decree is 23rd January 1917, which it is not or whether defendant 1 committed fraud on that date or at some other time daring the 12 years prior to that application or on the ground that the date 23rd January 1917, marks the starting point of limitation for some other reasons. As the particular ground on which the prior decision proceeded is not certain, that decision cannot have the force of res judicata on this additional ground also. 78. As defendant 4 is not barred by res judicata from raising the present contentions, the question whether defendant 5 though not a party to E.P. No. 1509 of 1927 is also affected by the rule of res judicata from raising the present contentions by virtue of the representation by defendant 4 of the estate of defendant 3 in the prior proceedings does not arise for consideration. 79. It follows from what has been said above that the present appellant, i. e., defendant 5 is free to raise the contention that the decree sought to be executed is barred by the 12 years' rule of limitation contained in Section 48, Civil P.C. Accepting his contention for the reasons given in the earlier part of the judgment I hold that the assignee decree-holder cannot avail himself of the fraud of defendant 1 to keep the decree alive as against the other defendants. 80. In the result, this appeal by defendant 5 is allowed with costs throughout.