The Allahabad High Court’s (HC) recent ruling about “unsaid words” inciting public disorder is a serious blow to online free speech and freedom of expression. As the scope of the undefined “unsaid words” is very broad, expressions of irony, satire, euphemism or even political dog-whistling are at risk of falling under this infinite, undefined criterion.

This ruling also undermines the reasoning behind the 2015 landmark Shreya Singhal case , in which the Supreme Court (SC) struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act (IT Act), which criminalised offensive speech. The court ruled that terms in that section, such as ‘grossly offensive’, ‘menacing’, ‘annoy’, ‘inconvenience’, and ‘insult’ are “open-ended and undefined”.

Moreover, the fact that the accused sent the alleged messages via private WhatsApp chat, as mentioned in the FIR reviewed by MediaNama, raises growing concerns over online free speech, especially when considered alongside the recent observations from Indian courts following the Ranveer Allahabadia-Samay Raina controversy , which suggested the need for specific laws to regulate “offensive” online speech.

While the online free speech and expression is already a murky space in India, over-reaching governmental measures to curb online content without any transparent reasons and explanation led to the blocking of over 5,000 URLs in just 10 months of 2022 under Section 69A of IT Act. Similarly, over 22,447 websites, URLs, applications, and social media posts were taken down under this section between January 2015 and September 2022.

For context, Section 69A empowers the Indian Government to block content online from public access if it poses a risk to the sovereignty, integrity, and defence of India. It can also order a blocking in cases of state security, relations with other countries, public order, and to prevent crimes as well.

In addition to enforcing opaque online censorship through the Sahyog portal—which authorities used to remove 8,000 X accounts after the Pahalgam terrorist attack and issue more than 130 content takedown notices to online platforms—the government recently amended the IT Rules, 2021, to grant authorised officers and courts the power to order intermediaries to remove content within 36 hours of receiving such an order.

As India currenlty witnesses vague legal and administrative actions against dissenters and non-dissenters– like Prof. Ali Khan Mahummad and Dr. Madri Kakoti (Dr. Medusa) – and satirists broadly charged with public mischief , promoting enmity and arbitrary content takedown orders , the Allahabad HC’s ruling that “unsaid words” can potentially “promote feelings of enmity, hatred, and ill-will between religious communities” sets a dangerous precedent for online free speech, even in private encrypted chats.

The Allahabad HC observed that “subtle messages” and “unsaid words” can invoke enmity among different religious groups, even if there is no direct mention of the religion in the “inflammatory message”, while dismissing a petition filed by one Afaq Ahmad.

For context, he had requested the court to quash an FIR filed against him for a WhatsApp message he had sent to a “multitude of persons”.

The Allahabad HC stated that the WhatsApp message’s “unsaid words” were also ” likely to create or promote feelings of enmity, hatred and ill-will between religious communities”. The court further added that members of one community might believe they are being targeted by another community through the abuse of the legal process.

Speaking to MediaNama over a phone call, Afaq’s advocate Syed Shahnawaz Shah said that it is unlikely that they will approach the Supreme Court (SC) challenging the HC order. He added that the trial against Afaq may begin after the police files the chargesheet.

MediaNama reviewed the FIR, which charged Ahmad under Sections 299 and 353(3) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS). These sections penalise deliberate acts or statements that insult religious beliefs, or incite public mischief , fear, or enmity between groups. Interestingly, the court noted that, “The act may not be within the mischief of Section 353(3), but prima facie would attract Section 353(2) BNS.”

This complaint follows an earlier case filed against Afaq’s brother, Arif Ahmad, under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2021: an anti-conversion law brought to penalise inter-faith relationships and marriages by conservative UP CM Yogi Adityanath to “ honour sisters and daughters “.

The UP police arrested Arif, who remains in jail, according to an Indian Express report . Police acted on a complaint from RSS worker Sandeep Kaushik, who alleged that Arif, now married to someone else, had “links with anti-national and anti-social elements” and was involved in “love jihad”: luring Hindu women into relationships, obtaining passports for them under false names, and taking them abroad to sell them.

Notably, the police later expanded the FIR to include charges of rape, administering poison, cheating, forgery, and unlawful religious conversion through misrepresentation or inducement.

To explain, “love jihad” is a derogatory political term often used by right-wing politicians to accuse Muslim men of luring Hindu women into relationships to forcibly convert them to Islam.

Addressing this issue, Afaq sent a WhatsApp message to two people. Later, the police filed another FIR against him based on screenshots of those messages, which claimed that Arif was “framed in a false case by putting political pressure on the police”.

However, according to the Indian Express report , Afaq also expressed trust in India’s judiciary, saying “the court will expose the lie”. The Allahabad HC is currently hearing this case.

Despite Afaq expressing his trust in the legal system, the court dismissed his petition to quash the FIR, ruling that even “unsaid words” can amount to incitement of communal violence.

In its 2015 landmark ruling, known as the Shreya Singhal case , the SC struck down Section 66A of the IT Act after authorities repeatedly misused it to arrest individuals for exercising free speech on social media.

The court held that Section 66A violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and did not qualify for protection under the reasonable restrictions allowed by Article 19(2). The court ruled that Section 66A was unconstitutional because it penalised vague, harmless speech with no direct or proximate link to public disorder or any real threat to the community.

Referring to the now-struck-down section, the SC said the law created an offence against people who used the internet to annoy or inconvenience others, which clearly restricted Indians’ freedom of speech and expression by directly curbing such expression.

For context, according to a 2015 BBC report , then-law student Singhal filed the petition in the SC in 2012, challenging Section 66A of the IT Act, which empowered the police to arrest individuals for comments made on social media and other online platforms.

She approached the court after authorities arrested several people for online posts, citing cases in which police detained a West Bengal professor for sharing a cartoon of the chief minister, arrested two women in Mumbai for a Facebook post questioning a city shutdown, and held a businessman in Puducherry for an innocuous comment about a politician.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event