YASHWANT VARMA, J. 1. These writ petitions impugn notices issued under Section 148 of
 the Income Tax Act, 19611 by the first respondent. The details of the
 individual writ petitions are set out hereinbelow:- 2. The first respondent has assumed authority to initiate
 reassessment proceedings upon finding that the production unit of the
 wholly owned subsidiary of the petitioner constitutes a Fixed Place
 Permanent Establishment2, in the alternative a Service PE as well as a
 Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment3. The aforesaid
 conclusions are based on the provisions of the India-USA Double
 Taxation Avoidance Agreement4. 3. The petitioner is stated to be a foreign company registered under
 the laws of Delaware, in the United States of America and is a part of
 the Caterpillar Group. It is stated to be one of the largest integrated and
 diversified manufacturers of rolling stock, infrastructure solutions and
 engaged in providing solutions and technologies to rail customers
 across the globe. According to the writ petitioner, it is also engaged in
 supplying equipment directly to the Indian Railways including to the
 Diesel Locomotive Works5, Varanasi. These supplies are effected by
 way of imports which are made directly to the Indian Railways against
 Bills of Entries which are duly filed. The petitioner describes itself as 2 PE 3 DAPE 4 DTAA 5 DLW

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 6 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 being one of the largest global suppliers of new and reconditioned
 components for Class-1 railroads, short-lines, freight cars, freight car
 manufacturers and private freight car owners. 4. As per the petitioner, it has no income which can be said to
 accrue or arise in India under the provisions of the Act and although it
 has a registered office in Delhi, and has been allotted a Permanent
 Account Number6 falling under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner
 of Income Tax, International Taxation-1, Delhi - the fifth respondent
 herein, it has not filed any Income Tax Returns since no income
 accrued or arose and nor could that income be said to have deemed to
 have accrued or arisen in India. 5. The petitioner, however, has a wholly owned Indian subsidiary -
 Progress Rail Innovations Private Limited7, which was incorporated
 in 1996 and had a manufacturing unit at Noida and an office at
 Varanasi during the relevant Assessment Years'8, namely AYs' 2012-
 13 up to 2018-19. It is the case of the petitioner that in Financial Year9
 2021-22, the Noida plant was shut down and the manufacturing facility
 was shifted to Hubli in Karnataka. The Indian subsidiary, we were
 apprised, is assessed to tax in New Delhi where its registered office is
 situate and has also been subjected to transfer pricing studies by virtue
 of being an Associated Enterprise10 of the petitioner. The petitioner
 has relied upon one such order dated 18 October 2016 pertaining to AY
 2013-14 and which holds that the subsidiary provides only back office 6 PAN 7 PRIPL 8 AYs' 9 FY 10 AE

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 7 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 and technical support services to the petitioner. 6. The petitioner asserts that neither the said Transfer Pricing Order
 nor any other order made by the authorities under the Act have ever
 found the Indian subsidiary to constitute a PE of the petitioner despite
 the said entity having been duly assessed for the past 25 years. It is also
 the case of the petitioner that the products manufactured by the Indian
 subsidiary are clearly distinct from those manufactured and supplied by
 it, and consequently it would be found that the core business activities
 of the petitioner and the Indian subsidiary are completely different.
 They have in this regard disclosed the following distinct production
 activities pursued by the two entities:- Petitioner Subsidiary Company

 i. EMD OEM components available for Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets
 locomotive, marine and power and other bases for a voltage exceeding
 generation applications. 1,000V.‖
 ii. Freight and Tank Car Parts, Shortline
 and Industrials, Kershaw Parts, Marine
 and Stationary Engines. We are informed that prior to 01 September 2016, the petitioner was
 known as Electro Motive Diesel Inc., and whereafter its corporate name
 was changed to Progress Rail Locomotive Inc.

 B. FACTUAL NARRATIVE 7. On the basis of a survey conducted on 06 March 2019 under
 Section 133A of the Act, a survey report dated 11 March 2019 came to
 be prepared, in which it was alleged that the petitioner has an office in

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 8 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Noida and which was liable to be viewed as a Fixed Place PE/Service
 PE/ DAPE. On the basis of the aforesaid report, action was proposed to
 be initiated under Sections 147/148 of the Act. It is this report which
 led to the issuance of the impugned notices dated 28 March 2019
 [W.P.(C) 12408/2019], 29 April 2019 [W.P.(C) 12405/2019, W.P.(C)
 12406/2019] and 31 May 2019 [W.P.(C) 12407/2019, W.P.(C)
 12409/2019, W.P.(C) 12410/2019 and W.P.(C) 12411/2019] under
 Section 148 of the Act. 8. For the purposes of considering the validity of the action
 undertaken by the first respondent, we deem it apposite to consider the
 broad factual matrix as obtaining in the lead petition, namely W.P.(C)
 12408/2019. 9. Upon receipt of the impugned Section 148 notice dated 28 March
 2019, the petitioner submitted a response dated 26 April 2019 asserting
 that it had not earned any income chargeable to tax and that
 consequently the notice was liable to be withdrawn. On 17 May 2019,
 the first respondent provided the reasons underlying the initiation of
 action under Sections 147/148 to the petitioner. As would be evident
 from a reading of those reasons, the first respondent principally relied
 upon the statements of Mr. Jeetendra Pratap Singh, Sales Executive of
 PRIPL's Varanasi branch, Mr. Shivanshu Narendra Kaushik, DGM,
 PRIPL, Noida and Mr. Phaneendra Kumar Potnuru, Director- Finance,
 PRIPL, Noida. Basis the aforenoted statements, the first respondent
 came to form the opinion that the petitioner had a ―virtual projection‖
 and presence in India in the form of its subsidiary - PRIPL. It was
 consequently held that since a PE existed, income attributable to that

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 9 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 entity was liable to be taxed under the Act. The petitioner questioned
 the assumption of jurisdiction as well as the reasons so noted as would
 be evident from its response dated 28 May 2019. It also sought further
 documentation including the statements taken from the employees of
 PRIPL as well as a copy of all the documents/information collected by
 the petitioner during the course of those survey proceedings in terms of
 its letter dated 06 June 2019. 10. On 24 June 2019, the petitioner addressed a letter to the first
 respondent asserting that its duly allotted PAN was linked to the office
 of the fourth respondent and consequently questioned the issuance of
 notices by the first respondent additionally on this score. It was thus
 contended that the first respondent had wrongly assumed jurisdiction
 and the notices were thus liable to be withdrawn on this ground alone.
 On 26 June 2019, and faced with the fact that the petitioner had failed
 to submit its Return of Income11 in compliance with the notices
 issued, the first respondent initiated penalty proceedings referable to
 Section 271F read with Section 274 of the Act. In response to the said
 notice, the petitioner reiterated its stance that its PAN fell within the
 jurisdiction of the fourth respondent, and that consequently, both the
 Section 148 notice as well as the penalty notice issued by the first
 respondent were without jurisdiction. While responding to the penalty
 notice, the petitioner further asserted that it had not filed its returns
 proceeding on the assumption that its request for grant of four months
 to furnish the same stood granted. 11. By way of a letter dated 12 August 2019, the petitioner apprised 11 ROI

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 10 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 the first respondent that the Income Tax Business Application12 did
 not appear to facilitate uploading of the proposed ROIs' which were
 being sought to be submitted. In view of the above, the petitioner
 proceeded to forward physical copies of those returns to the said
 respondent under protest. The authority of the first respondent to
 undertake reassessment was again questioned by way of a letter dated
 25 September 2019. It was further alleged that the fourth respondent
 purportedly acting pursuant to its powers under Section 120 of the Act
 had passed an order transferring the jurisdiction of the PAN of the
 petitioner from the fourth respondent to respondent no.1 vide its order
 dated 05 November 2019, and which was alleged to have been
 approved by the fifth respondent on 06 November 2019. Subsequently
 and on 13 November 2019, the petitioner discovered that its jurisdiction
 had been transferred from the fourth respondent to respondent no.1. It
 is thereafter that the instant writ petitions came to be filed. 12. While entertaining the present writ petitions, we had extended
 interim protection to the writ petitioner by way of an order dated 26
 November 2019, and in terms of which it was provided that while it
 would be open for the first respondent to proceed with the assessment
 proceedings and conclude the same, it would be subject to further
 orders being passed on the writ petitions. Subsequently, on 09
 September 2021, the interim relief granted to the writ petitioner was
 modified and the Court provided for a stay of further proceedings
 pursuant to Section 148 of the Act by the first respondent until the
 disposal of the writ petitions. 13. Appearing for the writ petitioner, Mr. Datar, learned senior
 counsel, has on facts addressed the following submissions. Mr. Datar
 submitted that PRIPL, the wholly owned subsidiary of the petitioner
 was incorporated way back in 1996 and had a manufacturing unit at
 Noida and an office at Varanasi during the relevant AYs', namely,
 AYs' 2012-13 to 2018-19. Mr. Datar submitted that the said subsidiary
 had been regularly assessed to tax in Delhi by virtue of the location of
 its registered office which was situate in that jurisdiction and had also
 been subjected to transfer pricing assessments. 14. Mr. Datar took us through the following conclusions and findings
 which appear in a Transfer Pricing Order dated 18 October 2016:- W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 12 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 S.No Type of Method Selected Total Value
 . International of
 Transaction transaction
 (Rs.)
 MAM PLI

 i. Provision of Transactional Operating 110,850,531
 Technical Support Net Margin profit/Operating
 Services Menthod Cost (OP/OC)
 (TNMM)

 ii. Provision of TNMM OP/OC 111,464,189
 Marketing Support
 Services

 iii. Purchase of Goods TNMM Operating 434,372,844
 profit/Operating
 Sales (OP/OI)

 iv. Payment of repair TNMM OP/OI 389,463
 and maintenace
 charges

 v Issue of Equity Other Method NA 70,391,000
 Shares

 vi. Security Premium Other Method NA 413,899,080
 on Equity Shares
 alloted 4. Analysis of the Assessee's approach
 The international transactions that have been entered into by the
 assessee have been tabulated above. The main international
 transaction of the assessee in question is the provision of technical
 support services. The TP report has described the functions of the
 assessee and its AE and the functions of the assessee as submitted in
 the TP report are found to be in order. The business of the assessee is described below: Our attention was firstly drawn to Serial No. 1 of that Notification and
 which sets out the areas over which the fifth respondent could exercise
 the powers otherwise conferred upon it under the Act. Mr. Datar then
 drew our attention to Serial No. 3 of that Notification, and which spelt
 out the areas over which the second respondent was empowered to
 exercise authority and which extended to areas falling within the
 territorial limits of the States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. 18. It is relevant to note that in terms of the arrangement made for
 entities falling within the ambit of Serial No. 3, the Notification further
 provided that the said authority would also have the right to assess
 persons who may be non-residents, including foreign companies having
 a PE in the territories noted above. In terms of the aforesaid
 Notification, the Commissioner of Income Tax (International Taxation- 3), Delhi, the second respondent herein, issued an order on 15
 November 2014 vesting jurisdiction upon the Additional 14 CBDT

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 16 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Commissioner of Income Tax15/Joint Commissioner of Income
 Tax16 (Range Noida) over all foreign companies having a PE in the
 State of Uttar Pradesh. The said authority - ACIT (International
 Taxation), Range, Noida, in turn issued an order on the same date and
 proceeded to confer power upon the first respondent in respect of
 foreign companies having a PE within the territorial limits of the Chief
 Commissioner of Income Tax17, Ghaziabad falling in the State of
 Uttar Pradesh. It is on the basis of the aforesaid distribution of the
 power to assess that the first respondent appears to have issued the
 impugned notices. 19. It becomes pertinent to note that initially the petitioner had
 questioned the assumption of jurisdiction by the first respondent based
 upon the provisions contained in the aforenoted Notifications.
 However, and although we had heard parties on the aforesaid aspect
 alone and reserved judgment, on a careful scrutiny of those
 Notifications, we found that it would be expedient, in the interest of
 justice, if the petitioner was apprised of some of the issues which
 emanate therefrom. It was this which led us to reopen the hearing on
 the writ petitions vide order dated 25 January 2024. 20. We find from a perusal of the Notifications in question that the
 construction which was sought to be advocated at the behest of the writ
 petitioner would not sustain. It becomes pertinent to note that the
 Notification of 03 November 2014 broadly distributes the territorial
 areas amongst the Commissioners' of Income Tax. That distribution is 15 ACIT 16 JCIT 17 CCIT

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 17 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 made on an area/regional basis. However, the very same Notification
 proceeds to empower the Commissioners, ACITs and JCITs to further
 delegate their powers of assessment to officers' subordinate to them. It
 is on the basis of the aforesaid authorization made by the CBDT that
 the Commissioner of Income Tax (International Taxation-3), Delhi, the
 second respondent herein, proceeded to confer authority upon the
 ACIT/JCIT (Range Noida) on 15 November 2014, and who in turn and
 on the very same date, vested all powers relating to assessment upon
 respondent No. 1. 21. We thus find that the challenge as raised based upon the
 distribution of powers would not sustain. However, and it is necessary
 to so observe, undisputedly insofar as the first respondent is concerned,
 it could have derived authority to assess the petitioner or to subject it to
 proceedings under the Act, only if it had come to conclude that it had a
 PE within the territorial area assigned to it. It is this foundational link
 which joins the assumption of jurisdiction by the first respondent and
 the issue of PE of the petitioner in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The
 decision of the first respondent on the issue of PE thus emerges as
 being not only the central point of contestation, but also of significant
 import since the very foundation of the impugned reassessment action
 rests on the correctness of the view as taken by the said respondent in
 that respect. E. THE PE ISSUE- A BRIEF BACKGROUND 22. Since learned counsels for respective sides have addressed
 elaborate submissions on the concept of Fixed Place PE, Service PE
 and DAPE, we do not find any justification to go into the issue of PAN

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 18 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 migration and the challenge in that respect which was addressed. This,
 since we would have to necessarily answer the fundamental question of
 whether a PE could be said to have come into existence within the
 territorial area over which the first respondent stood empowered to
 exercise powers conferred by the Act and thus examine whether the
 Section 148 power was justifiably invoked. 23. The question of a PE existing in the State of Uttar Pradesh would
 have to be answered on the basis of Article 5 of the India-USA DTAA
 which is extracted hereinbelow:- W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 19 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 (k) a building site or construction, installation or assembly
 project or supervisory activities in connection therewith,
 where such site, project or activities (together with other
 such sites, projects or activities, if any) continue for a
 period of more than 120 days in any twelve-month period ; (l) the furnishing of services, other than included services as
 defined in Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included
 Services), within a Contracting State by an enterprise
 through employees or other personnel, but only if: 3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the
 term ―permanent establishment‖ shall be deemed not to include any
 one or more of the following: 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a
 person--other than an agent of an independent status to whom
 paragraph 5 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of
 an enterprise of the other Contracting State, that enterprise shall be
 deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned
 State, if : mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which he
 regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise,
 and some additional activities conducted in the State on behalf of
 the enterprise have contributed to the sale of the goods or
 merchandise ; or (c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly
 or almost wholly for the enterprise. 5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have
 a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely
 because it carries on business in that other State through a broker,
 general commission agent, or any other agent of an independent
 status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course
 of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent are
 devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise and
 the transactions between the agent and the enterprise are not made
 under arm's length conditions, he shall not be considered an agent
 of independent status within the meaning of this paragraph. 6. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting
 State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of
 the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that
 other State (whether through a permanent establishment or
 otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a
 permanent establishment of the other.‖ 24. As would be manifest from a reading of Article 5 , clauses (a) to (k) of Article 5(2) spell out establishments which would be liable to be
 acknowledged as constituting a Fixed Place PE. While Article 5(2)(l) is
 concerned with a Service PE, Article 5(4) stipulates the conditions
 when a DAPE would have to be accepted as existing. 25. The issue of PE has been answered by the first respondent
 against the petitioner and is based on the following conclusions which

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 21 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 are set out in detail in an email dated 17 May 2019 addressed to the
 petitioner. We deem it apposite to firstly extract the following parts of
 that communication and which contain the statement as made by Mr.
 Jeetendra Pratap Singh: 26. As would be evident from the above, the first respondent appears
 to have borne in consideration the statement made by this individual to
 the effect that PRIPL was a subsidiary of the petitioner and the various
 purchase orders and Bills of Lading collected pertaining to the Indian
 subsidiary as well as the petitioner herein. These documents were
 explained by Mr. Jeetendra Pratap Singh, who is asserted to have
 stated, that purchase orders which carry details of payments in US
 Dollars18 relate to the petitioner while those where payments were 18 USD

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 23 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 expressed in INR concern the Indian subsidiary - PRIPL. The first
 respondent also relied upon the response of the said employee with
 respect to emails which were addressed to various individuals and
 details whereof are found in Question 15. While responding to that
 query, the employee is asserted to have stated that those emails were
 concerned with directions for procurement, modification of purchase
 orders, delivery of goods, refunds, sale and purchase of goods as
 received by the Indian subsidiary from the petitioner. The employee is
 also asserted to have stated that the emails so received are also reported
 to the petitioner from time to time through proper channels. 27. In the course of the survey operations, the first respondent also
 recorded the statements of Mr. Shivanshu Narendra Kaushik and Mr.
 Phaneendra Kumar Potnuru. The relevant extracts of the statement
 made by Mr. Shivanshu Kaushik is reproduced hereinbelow:- 28. The statement made by Mr. Potnuru is extracted
 hereunder: 29. On the basis of the aforesaid, the first respondent proceeded to
 hold that it was evident that the petitioner had a ―virtual projection‖ in
 India in the form of the wholly owned subsidiary and whose activities
 could neither be viewed as being ―preparatory‖ nor ―auxiliary‖. It was
 on the aforesaid basis that the first respondent proceeded to hold that

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 27 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 the petitioner had a Fixed Place PE/Service PE/ DAPE. Ultimately and
 upon taking into consideration the statements as well as the material
 which was gathered prior to and post the survey which was conducted,
 the first respondent came to the following basic conclusions:- 30. On a consideration of the above, the first respondent held as
 follows:- Resident Company's business in India especially with Indian
 Railways. b) The conclusion at 'a' above is in line with ratio decidendi of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment dated 24-04-2017 in the case of Formula One World Championship Vs. CIT (IT )-3, Delhi [reported
 in 394 ITR 80/295 CTR 12/248 Taxman 192 (SC)) and Hon'ble
 Andhra Pradesh High Court's judgment dated 17-06-1983 in the case
 of CIT Vs. Vishakhapatnam Port Trust [reported in 114 ITR 146/38
 CTR 1/15 Taxman 72 (AP)] c) Therefore, the Non-Resident Company M/s Electro Motive
 Diesel Inc. USA (now known as M/s Progress Rail Locomotive
 Inc. USA) has a PE in India (Fixed Place PE/Service

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 30 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 PE/Dependent Agent PE) in terms of Article 5 of India-USA
 DTAA and income attributable to this PE based on the said Non-
 Resident Co.'s sales in India is taxable in the hands of such PE. d) Reason to believe that income has escaped assessment
 necessitating initiation of action u/s. 147 / 148 of the I.T. Act, 1961
 As sales of the said Non-Resident Co. in India for the years 2011 &
 2012 is Rs. 832.10 Crores & Rs. 1028.50 Crores, Sales of the said
 Co. for the period 1-4-2011 to 31-3-2012 relevant for A.Y. 2012-13
 will be part of sales of the years 2011 (1-4-2011 to 31-12-2011) &
 2012 (1-1-2012 to 31-3-2012) and considering the existence of PE of
 the said Non-Resident Co. in India, I have concrete reasons to
 believe that income exceeding Rs. 1 Lakh have escaped assessment
 for the A.Y. 2012-13 in the hands of the said Non- Resident Co. viz.
 M/s Electro Motive Diesel Inc. (now known as Progress Rail
 Locomotive Inc.), USA, especially as no Return of Income has
 ever been filed by the said Non-Resident Co. in India.
 Hence, for initiating proceedings u/s 147 / 148 sanction of the
 Commissioner of Income Tax is hereby sought in terms of Section
 151 of the I.T. Act, 1961.‖

 F. THE CHALLENGE OF PROGRESS RAIL
 LOCOMOTIVE INC. CONTD. 31. Assailing the assumption of jurisdiction by the first respondent,
 Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel submitted that the first respondent
 had clearly erred in proceeding on the basis that the Noida factory
 constituted a Fixed Place PE of the petitioner. According to learned
 senior counsel, the Noida premises could have by no stretch of
 imagination be considered to be a ―virtual projection‖ of the holding
 company. According to Mr. Datar, a Fixed Place PE in terms of Article
 5(1) of the India-USA DTAA would come into existence either where
 an entity has ―a factory‖, ―a branch‖ or other place in India through
 which its core activities are carried out. Mr. Datar submitted that the
 impugned notices and the reasons for initiating action under Sections
 147 / 148 nowhere hold that any particular part of the Noida or the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 31 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Varanasi establishment had been placed at the exclusive ―disposal‖ of
 the petitioner and which, according to him has been consistently
 recognised as being the key element insofar as a Fixed Place PE is
 concerned. 32. It was his submission that even if the material which is relied
 upon and the various assumptions derived therefrom are accepted to be
 correct, they would clearly not constitute evidence of the core business
 activity of the petitioner being carried on at Noida or Varanasi. Mr.
 Datar laid emphasis on the fact that all supplies to Indian Railways are
 made by the petitioner directly. Learned senior counsel in this regard
 drew our attention to the various emails which form part of Annexure 8
 of a compilation which was tendered in Court during oral submissions
 and in terms of which quantity and price issues were approved by the
 petitioner, and thereby establishing that the Indian subsidiary played no
 role whatsoever in relation to those activities. It was also highlighted by
 learned senior counsel that the core activities or business of the
 petitioner are not even carried out in the factory at Noida or in the
 office at Varanasi, and this, more so, since the products manufactured
 and supplied by the petitioner and the subsidiary are different. In view
 of the above, it was Mr. Datar's submission that the view taken by the
 first respondent on Fixed Place PE is wholly erroneous and untenable. 33. It was Mr. Datar's contention that the argument based on Article
 5(2)(l)(ii) of the DTAA is equally misconceived since it was not even
 the first respondent's case that the petitioner was discharging a service
 within India for a ―related enterprise‖. It was asserted that the first
 respondent has not based the impugned action on any material which

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 32 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 may have established or indicated any principal function that the Indian
 subsidiary may have performed or discharged in relation to the
 execution of contracts with the Indian Railways. Mr. Datar reiterated
 the undisputed fact of all products having been directly supplied to the
 Indian Railways by the petitioner in the relevant AYs', namely, AYs'
 2012-13 till 2018-19. 34. Mr. Datar then questioned the opinion formed by the first
 respondent on the aspect of DAPE. It was contended that the factories
 of the Indian subsidiary, PRIPL, manufacture a completely different
 range of products and that the petitioner has no control or oversight
 over those factories or offices. It was then contended that a subsidiary
 which merely renders back office or technical support would not be
 liable to be viewed as a PE, bearing in mind the provisions contained in Article 5(3)(e) of the India-USA DTAA. Mr. Datar submitted that the
 aforesaid position stands settled in light of the decision of the Supreme
 Court in Director of Income Tax (International Taxation), Mumbai
 vs. Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc.19 . Learned senior counsel contended
 that in Morgan Stanley, the Supreme Court had clearly enunciated the
 legal position with respect to ―preparatory‖ or ―auxiliary‖ services and
 consequently those principles are clearly attracted to the facts of the
 present case. It was also highlighted by Mr. Datar that the petitioner
 exercises no lien on the employees of the Indian subsidiary - PRIPL.
 All of the aforesaid factors, according to learned senior counsel, when
 considered cumulatively would lead one to the irresistible conclusion
 that no DAPE could be said to exist in India. (2007) 7 SCC 1

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 33 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 35. Proceeding further along these lines, Mr. Datar drew our
 attention to the judgments rendered by the Supreme Court in Director
 of Income Tax-II (International Taxation) New Delhi & Anr. vs.
 Samsung Heavy Industries Company Limited20 and Assistant
 Director of Income Tax - I, New Delhi vs. E-Funds IT Solution
 Inc.21 It was his submission that Samsung Heavy Industries was a
 binding verdict for the proposition that a liaison company would not
 amount to a Fixed Place PE. As per Mr. Datar, Samsung Heavy
 Industries had also clearly identified the fundamental premise
 pertaining to the PE question being the existence of an establishment
 ―through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly‖
 carried out. Similarly, in E-Funds IT Solutions Inc., Mr. Datar
 submitted, the Supreme Court had clearly held that the mere existence
 of a wholly owned subsidiary in one of the Contracting States would
 not ipso facto amount to an assumption of a PE having come into
 existence and which is also evident from a plain reding of Article 5(6) of the India-USA DTAA. As in E-Funds IT Solutions Inc., Mr. Datar
 submitted that here too, the various services and functions performed
 by the Indian subsidiary could have by no stretch of imagination been
 construed as extending beyond the performance of back office services. 36. Mr. Datar submitted that insofar as interrelated transactions were
 concerned, those were conducted at arm's length and had also been
 independently assessed and examined in transfer pricing studies. The
 petitioner had in this regard also placed reliance upon the observations
 as appearing in the TPO's report dated 18 October 2016 and relevant 20 (2020) 7 SCC 347 21 (2018) 13 SCC 294

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 34 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 parts whereof have been extracted hereinabove. It was Mr. Datar's
 submission that the services performed by the Indian subsidiary were
 identical to those which were noticed by the Supreme Court in E-Funds
 IT Solutions Inc., and thus the first respondent has illegally assumed
 jurisdiction by invoking Sections 147 / 148 of the Act. 37. Mr. Datar then questioned the impugned notices on the ground
 that a reading thereof would establish that no prima facie view was
 either formed or reasons recorded in support of the charge of income
 having escaped assessment. It was his contention that the entire action
 was based solely on a survey carried out in the factory and office
 premises of the Indian subsidiary located at Noida and Varanasi
 respectively. As per Mr. Datar, the first respondent has not even
 expressed a prima facie view with respect to the petitioner having a PE
 in India and consequently a Section 148 action could have at best only
 been issued by the jurisdictional AO, namely, the fourth respondent. 38. Mr. Datar then questioned the fairness of the action impugned on
 the ground that the statements have been selectively extracted and taken
 into consideration in order to initiate reassessment proceedings against
 the petitioner. It was his submission that none of the complete
 statements have been noticed or holistically examined prior to the
 formation of opinion. It was also submitted that the partial statements
 which have been extracted in the ―reasons to believe‖ for initiating
 action under Sections 147 / 148 of the Act would also not sustain the
 reassessment action as initiated. He had in this regard referred to the
 following material which had been tendered separately in Court during
 the course of his oral submissions:- 39. Without prejudice to the aforesaid submissions, Mr. Datar, on
 instructions, stated that even if it were to be assumed for the sake of
 argument that the Indian subsidiary is a PE of the petitioner, since its
 registered office is in New Delhi, it would be the appropriate Assessing
 Officer22 in the Delhi jurisdiction who alone would have the
 jurisdiction to initiate reassessment proceedings under Section 148 of
 the Act. 40. Mr. Datar then drew our attention to an opinion rendered by the
 Authority for Advanced Ruling in In re., Speciality Magazines P.
 Ltd23, and more particularly to the following passages of that decision: 41. The said decision was cited by Mr. Datar in the context of the
 phrase ―wholly or almost wholly for the enterprise‖ as occurring in Article 5(4)(c) of the India-USA DTAA and to therefore contend that
 the activities of the Indian subsidiary could not be said to fall within the
 ambit of that provision. In this backdrop, our attention was also drawn
 to the following chart which sets out details of the income derived by
 the Indian subsidiary from transactions with the petitioner between
 FYs' 2011-12 to 2017-18 and which is extracted hereinbelow:- 42. According to Mr. Datar, the aforesaid chart would establish the
 minuscule percentage of income which the Indian subsidiary earned
 from transactions entered into with the petitioner when compared to its
 total income, and all of which would establish that it was less than 75%,
 a threshold which was recognized in the decision in Speciality
 Magazines. For this reason also, according to Mr. Datar, the opinion as
 formed by the first respondent is clearly rendered unsustainable and the
 action for reassessment liable to be quashed. 43. While closing submissions, Mr. Datar also relied upon the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Union of India vs. UAE Exchange
 Centre24 and had also placed for our consideration a comparative chart
 in support of his submission that the said judgment along with the
 decision in Morgan Stanley & Co. came to be rendered in similar
 factual scenarios. The commonality of the factual features in the
 context of which those judgments were rendered was highlighted by
 way of the following comparative table: Main business Providing remittance services Providing Providers of
 activities of the for transfer of monies from financial advisory rolling stock
 respective the UAE to various places in services, and
 Assessee India. corporate lending infrastructure
 company and underwriting. solutions and
 technologies
 for global rail
 securities
 customers. Back office support services, liaison office - held to be activities which have
 'preparatory or auxiliary character' - thus, the Indian Subsidiary/Office providing
 these activities cannot be treated as a "PE" of the foreign company [ Article 5(3)(e)] Ancillary Indian company operated a The Indian The Indian
 Services liaison of the UAE Exchange Subsidiary was Subsidiary
 provided by the Centre in India - carried out providing support provides back
 Indian activities like - dispensing services like - office support
 Office/Subsidiary the remittances to supporting the services in the
 of the respective beneficiaries in India, front office nature of
 Assessee downloading of information functions of marketing and
 company to the from the main server of the parent company technical
 Assessee parent company in respect of in fixed income support
 Company. transfer of monies and and equity services to the
 printing and preparing research, EMD Group at
 cheques/drafts and sending providing IT a cost-plus
 the same to the beneficiaries enabled services basis. (para 4
 in India. such as data at page 2 and
 processing 3 of the
 support centre Transfer

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 39 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 and technical Pricing Order
 services, dated
 reconciliation of 18/10/2016)
 accounts. Held by Supreme Activities of liaison offices The back-office Therefore, the
 Court were of preparatory or functions same principle
 auxiliary character, same performed by should be
 would fall within excepted Indian Subsidiary followed in
 category under Article falls under Article the case of
 5(3)(e) of India-UAE DTAA. 5(3) (e) of the Petitioner
 (Para 11) India-USA since the
 DTAA. (Para 12) Indian
 Subsidiary,
 like in the case
 of Morgan
 Stanley and
 UAE, provides
 back office
 support
 services which
 are activities
 of 'preparatory
 or auxiliary
 character'.‖ 44. Mr. Datar then drew our attention to the following pertinent
 observations as rendered by the Supreme Court in UAE Exchange
 Centre:- 45. Mr. Datar then submitted that the first respondent appears to have
 proceeded on a wholly incorrect presumption that the existence of a
 wholly owned subsidiary in one of the Contracting States would
 invariably result in the creation of a PE. It was submitted that a wholly
 owned subsidiary, would by virtue of the investments in its capital and
 in the larger business interest of a group as a whole, always be subject
 to policy interventions and broad oversight by the holding entity. It was
 contended that the premise on which the impugned reassessment
 proceeds is in the teeth of the clarification in this respect which stands
 enshrined in Article 5(6) of the India-USA DTAA. 46. It would be pertinent to recall that Article 5(6) proclaims that
 merely because a company which controls or is controlled by one
 which is a resident of the other Contracting State shall not of itself
 constitute a PE. Insofar as the issue of subsidiary PE is concerned and
 in order to enable us to have the benefit of a broad conceptualization of
 principles pertaining thereto, Mr. Datar firstly drew our attention to
 certain passages as appearing in Permanent Establishment, Erosion
 of a Tax Treaty Principle25 authored by Arvid Aage Skaar. By way of 25 Permanent Establishment, Erosion of a Tax Treaty Principle, Wolters Kluwer, 2 nd edition (1991)

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 41 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 a historical background, Skaar's work contains the following
 illuminating passages:- During the 1930s the principle of protecting related companies
 from PE taxation through the activity of each other prevailed in
 several bilateral treaties and was also briefly mentioned in the
 1933 Report of the Fiscal Committee of the League of Nations.
 The uncertainty within this field led the US negotiators to ask for
 a specific provision on the issue in the first general US double
 taxation treaty, concluded with France in 1932. It was not until
 the Mexico model of 1943 that this issue became subject to a
 more comprehensive treatment in the model treaties. Today
 practically all tax treaties include specific protection against PE
 taxation based solely on related companies. Although older German Supreme Court practice concerning
 domestic laws allowed a basic-rule PE to be constituted." this
 position was later given up by the tax authorities." Since the 1934
 tax legislation," German domestic laws have not explicitly
 allowed subsidiary-PE taxation. In tax-treaty regulations, it was
 established in 1941 that a subsidiary was not to be considered a
 PE under the tax treaties, unless this was explicitly stated in the
 treaty. ―A basic-rule PE could not be constituted by a subsidiary
 for a parent company under German domestic laws." Hence, the
 provision in the former German treaty with Italy, which allowed
 PE taxation of subsidiaries, was without significance in
 Germany." 36.2.3 Policy Considerations
 A neutral tax system would allow a subsidiary PE to be
 constituted in all cases where the same conclusion would be
 reached for unrelated companies. This solution is expressly stated
 for a subsidiary PE under the agency clause. Consequently, the
 position of some older pre-OECD authors that a subsidiary can
 never constitute a PE for the parent has not been sustained. The
 conventional position of the OECD-based tax-treaty doctrine used
 to be that a subsidiary PE can only be based on the agency clause. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 42 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 However, the tax treaties aim at allowing the source state to tax
 business profits with a certain economic allegiance to the country,
 expressed through the enterprise's PE. This intention must also
 apply when the parent company's business income is earned by
 the intermediation of a subsidiary. Thus, from a de lege ferenda
 point of view, PE taxation of the parent company is justified in
 cases where residence- state taxation of the subsidiary does not
 under domestic laws adequately attribute taxing jurisdiction to the
 source state. Today, the commentaries to the OECD model
 treaty's give conclusive reasons for the conventional wisdom with
 regard to this question.‖ 47. Proceeding further to deal with the agency clause that appears in
 various tax treaties and how the same has been examined in the
 commentaries pertaining to Organization for Economic Cooperation
 and Development26 model treaties, Skaar observes as follows:- In the OECD 2017 model treaty, the "closely related test" was
 introduced in the agency clause, stating that "person" working
 "exclusively or almost exclusively" for a closely related enterprise
 shall not be considered independent in this respect. This rule appears
 to admit that the intra group-relationship is significant for the 26 OECD

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 43 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 independence of the "person" acting on behalf of somebody else;
 however, this is not exactly true. A "person" working "exclusively or
 almost exclusively" for an unrelated "enterprise" will normally be
 economically dependent upon the "enterprise." An agency PE would
 therefore normally be created also under the pre-2017 OECD model
 treaties, anyway. The significance of the "closely related test" for the
 creation of an agency PE should therefore not be overestimated.‖ 48. Explaining the importance of the functionality test regulating a
 subsidiary PE, Skaar makes the following pertinent observations:- However, what if a member of the Board of Directors performs
 activities for the company that go beyond the activities the directors
 are supposed to do in their capacity as members of the Board of
 Directors, such as taking over functions of the managing director,
 engage in sales activities, management of production and hiring
 personnel (except hiring of managing director)? These activities are
 the business of the subsidiary and not the business of the parent, if a
 "person" representing another company is engaged in the
 performance of the business of the "enterprise," this may indicate
 that the "person" and the "enterprise" is conducting a joint business
 activity, which may qualify for a PE. The main problem pertaining to the subsidiary PE is whether the
 parent company performs the business activity of the subsidiary or
 vice versa. With one exception, the general basic-rule provisions also
 apply to the subsidiary PE. It is expressly stated in the commentaries
 that the parent company cannot be the subsidiary's "place of
 management," even if extensive management and supervision
 services are provided.‖

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 44 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 49. As would be evident from the aforesaid passage, the author
 suggests that the functionality test is met where it is found that the
 asserted PE is engaged in the carrying on of the business activities of
 the taxpayer. After noticing the various precedents handed down with
 respect to a subsidiary PE, including some rendered by Tribunals in
 India, Skaar enunciates the legal position by way of the following
 conclusions:- also shows examples of departure from the task to interpret the tax
 treaties and the tax laws in good faith, and instead attempt to change
 the law as a response to fundamental changes in business structures."
 The possibilities created by the combination of electronic commerce
 (e.g., the website in Dell Spain), contract manufacturing (as in
 Borax.") and commissionnaire agreements (DSM Nutritional
 Products and Dell Spain) lead to reactions that reflect discontent
 with the threshold, which the OECD model treaty and the
 commentaries have established. As much as the present writer
 sympathizes with this view de lege ferenda, such a reaction should

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 45 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 come from the treaty negotiators and the lawmakers, and not from
 the courts.‖ 50. According to the learned author, the existence of a subsidiary
 alone would not validate an assumption of a PE coming into existence.
 Bearing in mind the fact that a subsidiary would have a separate legal
 entity, according to the author, treaties proceed on the basis that
 subsidiaries are essentially set up to carry out their own business
 activities. According to Skaar, a subsidiary PE may come into existence
 where it is found that both entities are in fact "alter egos" and
 undertake a "joint business activity". It further significantly holds that
 performance of shareholder activities, including having a say in the
 operational top management would not in itself be dispositive of the
 question. It ultimately refers to the ―principal purposes‖ test as
 propounded in the commentary relating to OECD tax treaties. The
 aforesaid position is explained in greater detail in Para 36.6 which is
 extracted hereinbelow:- Moreover, related enterprises, which cooperate in a joint venture-like
 manner, may constitute a subsidiary PE for each other. And clearly,
 an agency PE will be the result if one of the companies concludes
 contracts on behalf of the other, or is playing the principal role in the
 conclusion of contracts on behalf of the other company.
 Neutrality and equity considerations justify de lege ferenda PE
 taxation in cases where "empty" companies are used to conclude and
 later pass on contracts to a related foreign enterprise if a PE would
 otherwise have been constituted. The practical result of a subsidiary
 PE will be that the company, which takes over the obligations under
 the contract and performs the work, is subject to PE taxation. The
 cases discussed in this chapter show de lege lata that a subsidiary PE
 is only created when the parent company itself would have met the
 conditions for PE if the transactions had not been performed through
 a subsidiary. Thus, a completely empty subsidiary with no material
 significance for the performance of the work does not constitute a
 subsidiary PE. For example, a parent company's transportation
 business does not create a PE simply because the contracts are
 concluded by a subsidiary with an office and passed on to the parent,
 provided that the parent would not have a PE in the absence of the
 subsidiary (i.e., the contracts were concluded by the parent directly).
 Moreover, international practice seems to suggest that a subsidiary
 PE is not constituted for an enterprise which subcontracts an
 assignment, if the enterprise does not take part in the physical work
 itself, even though it contributes the equipment necessary for the
 work. Moreover, a "slender" subsidiary may perform a true business
 activity, although insufficient to comply with the obligations under
 the contract. In these cases, a joint venture-like cooperation may be
 the result. When a basic-rule PE would have been constituted
 between unrelated companies, a subsidiary PE must be the result
 among related entities. Thus, a subsidiary PE between related
 companies will be constituted under circumstances where an
 unrelated company would also have been a PE under the basic rule.
 To counteract tax planning through related companies, tax
 authorities in some countries have adopted special versions of the
 unitary allocation method. In other cases, the authorities have
 claimed taxing jurisdiction over the foreign headquarters of the
 group, under the assumption that it has a PE in the country through
 the domestic subsidiary there. This has been done even if the
 subsidiary has only performed auxiliary functions, or no functions at
 all, for a related foreign construction enterprise. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 47 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 The impression left from the discussion of the subsidiary PE is that
 the conditions for subsidiary PE may be subject to creative
 interpretation in the future, as a method of counteracting tax
 planning through use of captive companies. Instead of dealing with
 the imperfections of the arm's-length principle through
 implementation of a unitary taxation system, tax authorities may aim
 at imposing PE taxation based on related companies. The unitary
 allocation method, through which a disproportionate amount of
 income is allocated to the domestic entity regardless of the accounts
 of the enterprise, is clearly a violation of the tax treaties, as well as
 an inadequate method of securing source-state taxation. Subsidiary
 PE taxation, however, is accepted in the treaties, and consistent with
 the aim of securing source-state taxation. Thus, subsidiary-PE
 taxation may become an instrument to combat tax avoidance in cases
 where the application of the arm's-length principle is difficult.
 It seems to be undisputable under OECD-based treaties that control,
 supervision, and subordination cannot de lege lata justify a
 subsidiary PE. However, a possible reason for PE taxation is that a
 PE is constituted through extensive, joint venture-like cooperation
 between two related (alter ego) companies. Such cooperation may
 justify PE taxation between unrelated companies under the basic rule
 and the fact that the companies are related cannot protect then
 against PE taxation.‖ 51. Mr. Datar then drew our attention to a work titled New Trends in
 the Definition of Permanent Establishment27, edited by Professor
 Guglielmo Maisto and which examines the subsidiary PE question with
 reference to the position as found in various international jurisdictions.
 Dealing firstly with the position as understood by authorities in
 Australia, Mr. Datar drew our attention to Para 10.2.6 which is
 reproduced hereinbelow:- 52. The subject of subsidiary PEs and group of companies, and as
 that subject is treated by authorities in Belgium was explained in Paras
 11.2.6 and 11.2.7 of that work and which are reproduced hereunder:- The above is also applicable to a BE. If a parent company is given
 the possibility to dispose of the premises that belong to a subsidiary
 and it carries on its business through that place, the parent company
 will in principle dispose of a basic rule PE. The Belgian tax
 authorities clarified that, a subsidiary could constitute an agency PE
 of the parent company if it acts as an agent for the latter and it
 concludes contracts in the name of the parent company. We believe,
 however, that it is not required that a subsidiary concludes contract
 in the name of the parent company. The mere fact that a parent
 company holds shares in the subsidiary is not sufficient to qualify it
 as a dependent agent. If a subsidiary is recognized as a PE of its parent company or vice
 versa, the general consequences in relation to the recognition of a PE
 are applicable, i.e. part of the profit realized by the head office
 should be attributed to the PE and will be taxed in the source state.
 Moreover, this will also have an impact on the taxation of certain
 specific types of income that are attributable to the PE, such as

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 49 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 passive income (i.e. dividends, interest and royalties) capital gains
 and other income in the meaning of article 21 of the OECD Model.
 The taxation of income stemming from employment can also be
 impacted by the presence of a PE. In case a PE is recognized, it will have to fulfil certain Belgian
 compliance requirements, such as the annual filing of a non-resident
 tax return, the with-holding of professional withholding tax on
 remuneration paid to employees provided that the remuneration is
 taxable in Belgium and the sincere cooperation with the tax
 authorities in case of a request for information. 11.2.7. Group of companies and closely related enterprises
 The DTCs concluded by Belgium typically contain a provision
 identical to article 5(7) of the OECD Model according to which
 closely related companies (eg, subsidiaries) are not automatically
 deemed a PE of the other In other words, a PE is not recognized
 solely by the fact that one company controls the other or vice versa.
 It should be examined for every single entity whether a PE should be
 recognized. Some DTCs concluded by Belgium have broadened the scope of this
 provision to enterprises that do not qualify as a company. In such
 case, the provisions are applicable, for example, to an individual that
 carries on a business and holds in that capacity the shares in a
 company located in another state: W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 50 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Although the IR asserts the existence of a PE through a subsidiary
 wherever it comes across any evidence of close interaction between
 the principal and the subsidiary, whether through presence of
 employees or transactions with other group companies, courts in
 India have not always sided with the IR. It has to be noted that India
 also has a service PE provision and therefore the risk is created of
 exposure to a fixed place PE, agency PE or service PE. In case of
 EPC contracts, there may also be a risk of construction PE exposure.
 Generally speaking, the following areas seem to create PE exposure: 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services). Under the
 subparagraph, the furnishing of services gives rise to a permanent
 establishment if either the activity continues for an aggregate of
 more than 90 days in a twelve month period, or the services are
 performed for a person related to the enterprise providing the
 services. In the latter case, no time threshold test must be met for a
 permanent establishment to exist. The determination of whether
 persons are related for purposes of this test is made in accordance
 with the rules of Article 9 (Associated Enterprises). Under the U.S.
 Model such activities would constitute a permanent establishment
 only if they are exercised through a fixed place of business or by a
 dependent agent. (See explanation below of Ad Article 5 of the
 Protocol for a description of the rule applicable when the 90 day
 time period extends over two taxable years.)‖ 61. Relying upon the aforesaid explanation, Mr. Agarwal contended
 that even a single visit by employees of the petitioner to oversee
 PRIPL's India operations would constitute a Service PE, especially
 when there is no requirement of a specific time period for the
 furnishing of service by the parent enterprise for its ―related
 enterprise‖. 62. Mr. Agarwal then contended that PRIPL constitutes a DAPE of
 the petitioner in terms of Article 5(4) of the India-USA DTAA. Learned
 counsel in this regard placed reliance upon the statement of Mr.

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 59 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Phaneendra Kumar Potnuru, and more specifically to his response to
 Question No. 7, whereby Mr. Potnuru stated that PRIPL communicates
 on behalf of the petitioner with DLW, Varanasi and Indian Railways.
 Therefore, and in this backdrop, Mr. Agarwal contended that PRIPL
 acts as a DAPE for the petitioner and that it falls within the contours of Article 5(4)(a) of the India-USA DTAA, since it had the ―authority to
 conclude contracts‖ on behalf of the petitioner. 63. Mr. Agarwal also contended that the activities of PRIPL do not
 fall within the negative list as specified in Article 5(3) of the India-USA
 DTAA and that by no stretch could the activities of PRIPL be
 considered to be of an ―auxiliary‖ or a ―preparatory‖ character. Mr.
 Agarwal also sought to distinguish the decisions of the Supreme Court
 in E-Funds IT Solutions Inc. and Samsung Heavy Industries Limited,
 which were cited by Mr. Datar in support of his argument that the
 activities of PRIPL constituted an ―auxiliary‖ or ―preparatory‖
 function. As per Mr. Agarwal, E-Funds IT Solutions Inc. was a case
 where the Indian subsidiary was performing only back office or support
 service functions in order to enable the foreign company to render
 services to its clients abroad. That, according to learned counsel is
 clearly distinct from the facts which have been found by the AO in the
 present case. 64. Likewise, Mr. Agarwal submitted that the decision in Samsung
 Heavy Industries Limited was also a case where the Indian subsidiary's
 project office was functioning merely as a liaison office performing
 back office functions as opposed to the core business of the foreign
 enterprise. As per Mr. Agarwal , the said decision would not apply to

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 60 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 the facts of the present case, since PRIPL was assisting in the core
 services performed by the petitioner and therefore, it cannot be said that
 PRIPL was performing ―auxiliary‖ or ―preparatory‖ functions. 65. Finally, Mr. Agarwal submitted that the survey report, which
 forms the basis for the issuance of the impugned Section 148 notice had
 found that PRIPL was functioning as a Fixed Place PE/Service
 PE/DAPE and that this Court, in the exercise of its writ jurisdiction
 ought not to interfere with the impugned notices at this stage. Mr.
 Agarwal submitted that at the stage of issuance of a notice for
 reassessment, the AO has to merely come to a prima facie conclusion
 whether in the facts as gathered or obtained, a further and more detailed
 exercise of reassessment is warranted. According to learned counsel,
 the reasons which have been recorded by the AO in support of the
 initiation of action cannot be said to be either patently erroneous or
 perverse so as to warrant the exercise of our powers conferred by Article 226 of the Constitution. H. PE- A BROAD OVERVIEW 66. While we are conscious of the limited scope of judicial scrutiny
 which should be brought to bear with respect to a Section 148 notice
 and a challenge being liable to be countenanced, only if it were to raise
 a serious jurisdictional question with respect to assumption of
 jurisdiction, we are confronted with a case, where admittedly, the first
 respondent would have no authority to initiate a reassessment action
 unless a PE were found to exist within its jurisdiction. The issue of
 existence of a PE and the Noida premises constituting an establishment
 which would fall within the ambit of Article 5 are thus aspects which

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 61 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 form the very basis and foundation for the invocation of the Section
 148 power by the first respondent. Our task thus is limited to examining
 whether the view as taken by the said respondent and the conclusions
 drawn on the basis of the material that existed is legally sustainable and
 one which could have been plausibly rendered. We thus proceed to
 examine the challenge that stands raised, cognizant and mindful of the
 narrow expanse over which which our power of review must extend. 67. Mr. Datar had with his characteristic erudition and clarity not
 only sketched out the well-recognised principles governing the question
 of a PE, he had also placed for our consideration various academic texts
 and treatises to enable us to obtain a broader perspective on the concept
 of a PE. We, however, deem it apposite to additionally notice some of
 the principles which stand enunciated in Klaus Vogel's seminal work
 on Double Taxation Conventions30. While explaining the ―control‖
 test which would be determinative for the purposes of acknowledging
 the existence of a place of business under the sufficient command of an
 entity situate in one of the Contracting States, the learned author
 observes as under:- 68. Klaus Vogel, while seeking to amplify the importance of the
 expression ―through‖ when used in the context of the business of the
 holding company being carried on by the subsidiary, makes the
 following pertinent observations:- W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 63 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 137. Likewise, the 'carrying-on' requirement does not imply an
 activity in the sense of an active and visible work. It includes even
 stand-by services and omissions. This gains significant relevance
 where the omission is profitable (e.g., in the case of a POB earning
 money in the source State simply by fulfilling, for whichever period
 of time, a non-competition agreement relating to the territory of that
 State). 138. However, a diffuse passivity which equals a (temporal or
 lasting) suspension of the activities which the POB has been
 designed for may indicate that the POB is not ‗permanent'. For
 details, see supra m.no.87 et seq. 139. Thirdly, the phrase ‗through which' indicates that the taxpayer
 makes use of the POB in that he employs it is an instrument
 (equalling or resembling an operating asset) for his entrepreneurial
 activities. This third aspect of the functional integration is by far the
 most disputed one. 140. Historically, the instrumental character of the POB for the
 carrying-on of the enterprise could not be taken for granted. Between
 1963 and 1977, the OEEC/OECD did not employ this term. Rather,
 it was sufficient that the taxpayer carried on his business ‗in' the
 POB (see supra m.no.45). Based on the old Model, some older
 DTCs use the words' in which' still today. While some authors have
 denied any divergence in substance, the 1977 amendment is a strong
 reason to assume a semantic shift indeed. 141. In a different context (viz., in Article 5(4.1) of the OECD and
 UN MC, as amended in 2017), the OECD and UN have returned, in
 one specific regard, to this old line by stating that an enterprise
 should carry on business 'at the same place'. However, the
 simultaneous use of this language on the one hand and the terms
 'used or maintained by an enterprise' on the other, in one and the
 same sentence in the initial phrase of Article 5(4.1) OECD and UN
 MC, proves how careful and attentive the 2017 Models have been
 drafted. This dualism is another good reason to stipulate a different
 meaning of 'through', as opposed to 'in' or 'at'. For all of these
 reasons, we do see a substantial difference between both terms. 142. It follows that on the one hand, the activities mentioned in Article 5(1) OECD and UN MC need no longer be carried on 'in' or
 'at' the POB. In this respect, the 1977 change of Article 5(1) OECD
 MC has enlarged the scope of the PE definition. Especially if one
 thinks of an activity as a human behaviour, one can now (unlike
 before 1977) easily subsume unmanned facilities under the PE
 definition (see supra m.no. 45 and see, e.g., no. 127 OECD MC
 Comm. on Article 5 ). W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 64 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 143. On the other hand, the requirement of an instrumental
 character of the POB has become irrefutable. Even stronger than
 the English amendment ('through which' instead of 'in which'), the
 corresponding modification of the French text ('par l'intermédiaire de
 laquelle' instead of 'où') has stressed the functional integration of the
 POB in the business. 144. The OECD MC Comm. has weakened the meaning of
 'through' since 2003. The Commentary holds the view that the
 requirement of a functional integration is met as soon as the taxpayer
 exercises the business in a fixed POB which is at his disposal (no.
 20 OECD MC Comm. on Article 5 (added on 28 January 2003) ).
 This is the reason for the characterization of the famous painter
 example (i.e., the fictitious case of a painter who, for two years,
 spends three days a week in the large office building of its main
 client) as a service PE. In substance, the view of the OECD MC
 Comm. limits the meaning of ‗through' to the first two instead of all
 three semantic aspects required by Article 5(1) OECD MC (supra
 m.no. 135 et seq. and 139 et seq.).‖ 69. Proceeding further to deal with the concepts of ―preparatory‖
 and ―auxiliary‖ services and which are intended to remove a place of
 business which may otherwise fall within the meaning of a PE, and
 which phraseology is mirrored in Article 5(3)(e) of the India-USA
 DTAA, Klaus Vogel's work has the following instructive passages:- fledged bureaucratic and administrative facilities of their own, just
 seem to be small, preparatory or auxiliary from the perspective of the
 company's headquarters. If they are still the biggest employer in a
 given municipality, it is hardly justified from the viewpoint of fiscal

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 67 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 equivalence to exempt such POBs under Article 5(4) OECD and
 UN MC. 308. It follows that a combined approach is most appropriate. While
 relative standards apply at the outset (supra m.no. 304), absolute
 standards require a second filter: 93. The OECD MC Comm. suggests that each period of time during
 which the place is used should be considered in combination with
 the number of times during which that place is used, even if these
 periods extend over a number of years (no. 29 OECD MC Comm. on Article 5 ). Where each period is of the same numbers of days, a
 multiplication of the duration of the single periods with the number
 of periods is plausible. In contrast, where the single periods vary in

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 69 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 length, all periods should be added on the basis of full days (see
 supra m.no.78 et seq.). Typically, the shorter each single period is,
 the more regular and the more often the activity should recur (cf. no.
 32 OECD MC Comm. on Article 5 ). This hypothesis cannot be used
 in a strictly mathematical sense, however. 94. Whether or not such comprehensive project or ongoing
 homogeneous business can be acknowledged should be decided
 under the same criteria as the concept of one single project or
 venture (supra m.no. 64 et seq.). 95. Based on the above-mentioned standards, a PE has convincingly
 been acknowledged in the case of a market pitch which a taxpayer
 used on a regular basis year in, year out. Likewise, a PE has been
 acknowledged in the case of a US resident salesman who sold wares
 at an exhibition in Canada from a trailer and portable sales booth
 two weeks each year for fifteen years. However, twice he left the
 trailer and stand in Canada between exhibitions, allegedly for
 repairs. It seems to your author that this decision is not beyond
 doubt, however. Similarly, the Swedish Kammarrätteni Göteborg
 ruled that the activities of a recurrent nature of a German company
 constituted a PE in Sweden despite the fact that the activities lasted
 only for a short period of time every year. In the case at hand a
 German company tested a special software for cars during the winter
 in northern Sweden. The activities in Sweden lasted only for three or
 four month search year with alternating employees. The
 Kammarrätten ruled that the company had fixed POB in Sweden
 although it was not present in Sweden for more than six months,
 given that the company was testing its software in Sweden for
 several years at the same place. Quite far-fetched, yet again not
 unjustifiable is the Formula One (F1) judgement of the Indian High
 Court of 30 November 2016 where the Court acknowledged an
 Indian PE of a UK resident company that had access to an Indian
 company's premises for up to six weeks during the F1
 Championship season each year for a five year period. The UK
 Company entered into two contracts giving the Indian Company
 rights to host, stage and promote the F1 Grand Prix of India. 96. Not every recurring activity qualifies as a permanent activity.
 The longer it takes for the enterprise to fulfil the 183-day
 requirement, the less convincing is the acknowledgment of such
 recurring activities as ‗permanent'. 97. Examples where a PE has correctly been denied include: The second strand of that definition is the expression ―through which‖
 and which underlines the primary purpose for which the place of
 business is to be utilised. The last of the determinative indicators of a
 PE is concerned with the aforesaid business activity being ―wholly or
 partly carried on‖ therefrom. Some of the categories of establishments
 which stand specifically included are thereafter set out in clauses (a) to (k) of Article 5(2) and which include a ―place of management‖, ―a
 branch‖, ―an office‖, ―a factory‖ and ―workshop‖ amongst others. 79. Article 5(2)(l) of the India-USA DTAA enumerates the
 conditions which if found to exist would lead to the creation of a
 Service PE. In terms of that Article, where it is found that the entity of
 a Contracting State is engaged in providing services through employees
 or other personnel in another Contracting State, and where those
 services are rendered for a ―related enterprise‖, it would result in a
 Service PE coming into existence. Article 5(3) constitutes the negative
 list, and in terms of which activities of the nature specified therein
 would result in a presumption of a PE being dispelled. 80. Article 5(4) then proceeds to deal with what is commonly known
 in the context of tax treaties as DAPE. An establishment existing in

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 73 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 one of the Contracting States which stands empowered to ―habitually‖
 exercise ―an authority to conclude‖ contracts is one of the first
 categories which the treaty would recognize as constituting a DAPE. A
 similar conclusion would be liable to be drawn if it were found that the
 establishment ―habitually‖ maintains a ―stock of goods or merchandise‖
 for supply on behalf of an enterprise situated outside that Contracting
 State. The last of the categories which stand culled out in terms of Article 5(4) are those enterprises who while situated in one of the
 Contracting States are engaged in ―habitually‖ securing orders ―wholly
 or almost wholly‖ for the foreign enterprise. K. THE COURT'S ANALYSIS 81. Having broadly set out the construct of Article 5 and the three
 categories of PEs' which are envisaged therein, this would be an
 appropriate juncture to commence the evaluation of the conclusions
 recorded by the first respondent. As we read the reasons recorded for
 initiating action under Sections 147 / 148 of the Act, it becomes manifest
 that the first respondent has sought to place the petitioner in all three
 conceivable silos of PEs', namely, a Fixed Place PE, Service PE and
 DAPE. K.1. THE SERVICE PE 82. However, and insofar as the asserted stand of the first respondent
 of the Indian establishment constituting a Service PE is concerned,
 suffice it to state that the same is thoroughly misconceived and
 untenable as is manifestly evident from a plain reading of Article 5(2)(l) of the India-USA DTAA. As we had noticed hereinabove, the same is
 concerned with situations where a foreign enterprise performs or
 provides services to a ―related enterprise‖ in the other State. The

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 74 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 respondent nowhere asserts or places reliance upon any material which
 may have even remotely established or indicated that the petitioner is
 rendering services in favour of the wholly owned Indian subsidiary. As
 we peruse the reasons that have been assigned, it becomes apparent that
 this conclusion is based solely on the visit of employees of the
 petitioner and their travel itineraries having been discovered. That
 cannot possibly be countenanced as being sufficient to render a finding
 with respect to Service PE. 83. In order to fall within the ambit of Article 5(2)(l)(ii) , it was
 incumbent upon the respondents to have established that the employees
 of the petitioner were in fact discharging functions in connection with
 the business of the Indian entity. In fact, the Article envisages the
 rendering of service ―for a related enterprise‖. A finding on Service PE
 could not have been rendered unless the respondents had found that the
 petitioner had deployed personnel who were posted in the Indian
 establishment, and were concerned with performing services for the
 Indian subsidiary. In fact, and as would be evident from a reading of the
 reasons set out for initiating action under Sections 147 / 148 , the same
 were principally concerned with the Indian subsidiary performing
 functions and services for the petitioner. These reasons form the
 foundation for the respondent holding that the Indian subsidiary
 constituted a DAPE. Both are thus clearly self-contradictory. In any
 case, the principal agreements which were taken into consideration
 related to services that the Indian entity was to discharge and that too
 on the basis of remuneration, which was asserted to be at arm's length. 84. All that need be additionally stated in this regard is that the mere
 fact that if the petitioner standing in the shoes of the parent company

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 75 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 deemed it appropriate and expedient to exercise a degree of managerial
 oversight, the same would not result in a Service PE coming into
 existence. The visit of employees of the parent company, their
 interaction with employees of the Indian subsidiary, discussion on
 subjects of mutual concern or interest is not the rendering of a service.
 Such forays are principally concerned with sharing of best practices,
 experiences and problem solving. It cannot possibly be understood to
 constitute the rendering of a service. Similarly, the periodic visits of
 employees of the petitioner to India were at best liable to be recognised
 as an extension of the right of the holding company to oversee India
 operations and exercise broad managerial oversight. These are, as some
 authors have chosen to describe, "normal management contribution".
 Therefore, and in light of the aforesaid discussion, we find that the
 argument addressed on Article 5(2)(l) of the DTAA is wholly
 misconceived and untenable. K.2. THE FIXED PLACE PE 85. That leads us to examine the correctness of the opinion as formed
 with respect to the Noida factory and the Varanasi office constituting a
 Fixed Place PE. Decades before global commerce attained the degree
 of complexity which attaches to it today, the Andhra Pradesh High
 Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Andhra Pradesh vs.
 Vishakapatnam Port Trust32 , and which decision constitutes the locus
 classicus on the subject, explained the concept of a ―permanent
 establishment‖ as postulating a substantial element of presence of a
 foreign enterprise in another country. The presence, as Jagannadha
 Rao, J. explained, had to additionally meet the test of an enduring and 32 1983 SCC Online AP 287

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 76 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 permanent nature. It was this seminal decision which propounded the
 concept of ―virtual projection‖. 86. The principles pertaining to Fixed Place PE were more lucidly
 explained by the Supreme Court in Formula One World Championship
 Limited in the following terms: - W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 77 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 xxxx xxxx xxxx 38.Taking cue from the word ―through‖ in the article, Vogel has also
 emphasised that the place of business qualifies only if the place is ―at
 the disposal‖ of the enterprise. According to him, the enterprise will
 not be able to use the place of business as an instrument for carrying
 on its business unless it controls the place of business to a
 considerable extent. He hastens to add that there are no absolute
 standards for the modalities and intensity of control. Rather, the
 standards depend on the type of business activity at issue. According
 to him, ―disposal‖ is the power (or a certain fraction thereof) to use
 the place of business directly.... 39. OECD commentary on Model Tax Convention mentions that a
 general definition of the term ―PE‖ brings out its essential
 characteristics i.e. a distinct ―situs‖, a ―fixed place of business‖. This
 definition, therefore, contains the following conditions: 40. The term ―place of business‖ is explained as covering any
 premises, facilities or installations used for carrying on the business
 of the enterprise whether or not they are used exclusively for that
 purpose. It is clarified that a place of business may also exist where
 no premises are available or required for carrying on the business of
 the enterprise and it simply has a certain amount of space at its
 disposal. Further, it is immaterial whether the premises, facilities or
 installations are owned or rented by or are otherwise at the disposal
 of the enterprise. A certain amount of space at the disposal of the
 enterprise which is used for business activities is sufficient to
 constitute a place of business. No formal legal right to use that place
 is required. Thus, where an enterprise illegally occupies a certain
 location where it carries on its business, that would also constitute a
 PE. Some of the examples where premises are treated at the disposal
 of the enterprise and, therefore, constitute PE are: a place of business
 may thus be constituted by a pitch in a market place, or by a certain
 permanently used area in a customs depot (e.g. for the storage of
 dutiable goods). Again the place of business may be situated in the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 78 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 business facilities of another enterprise. This may be the case for
 instance where the foreign enterprise has at its constant disposal
 certain premises or a part thereof owned by the other enterprise. At
 the same time, it is also clarified that the mere presence of an
 enterprise at a particular location does not necessarily mean that the
 location is at the disposal of that enterprise. xxxx xxxx xxxx 74. As per Article 5 of the DTAA, the PE has to be a fixed place of
 business ―through‖ which business of an enterprise is wholly or
 partly carried on. Some examples of fixed place are given in Article
 5(2) , by way of an inclusion. Article 5(3) , on the other hand,
 excludes certain places which would not be treated as PE i.e. what is
 mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) as the ―negative list‖. A combined
 reading of sub-articles (1), (2) and (3) of Article 5 would clearly
 show that only certain forms of establishment are excluded as
 mentioned in Article 5(3) , which would not be PEs. Otherwise, sub- article (2) uses the word ―include‖ which means that not only the
 places specified therein are to be treated as PEs, the list of such PEs
 is not exhaustive. In order to bring any other establishment which is
 not specifically mentioned, the requirements laid down in sub-article
 (1) are to be satisfied. Twin conditions which need to be satisfied
 are: (a) existence of a fixed place of business; and (b) through that
 place business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried out. xxxx xxxx xxxx 85. We are of the opinion that the test laid down by the Andhra
 Pradesh High Court in Visakhapatnam Port Trust case [ CIT v.
 Visakhapatnam Port Trust , 1983 SCC OnLine AP 287 : (1983) 144
 ITR 146] fully stands satisfied. Not only the Buddh International
 Circuit is a fixed place where the commercial/economic activity of
 conducting F-1 Championship was carried out, one could clearly
 discern that it was a virtual projection of the foreign enterprise,
 namely, Formula-1 (i.e. FOWC) on the soil of this country. It is
 already noted above that as per Philip Baker [ A Manual on the
 OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital] , a PE
 must have three characteristics: stability, productivity and
 dependence. All characteristics are present in this case. Fixed place
 of business in the form of physical location i.e. Buddh International
 Circuit, was at the disposal of FOWC through which it conducted
 business. Aesthetics of law and taxation jurisprudence leave no
 doubt in our mind that taxable event has taken place in India and
 non-resident FOWC is liable to pay tax in India on the income it has
 earned on this soil.‖

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 79 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 87. As per the Manual on the OECD Model Tax Convention, and the
 precedents rendered on the subject, there are two basic conditions
 which are spelt out and which must be fulfilled for acknowledging a PE
 being existent and constituting a fixed place of business. They are: 88. The expression ―disposal‖ was explained to mean a right to use a
 place and exercise ―control‖ thereupon. ―Control‖ was explained
 further to mean the place of business being at the ―disposal‖ of an
 enterprise and which may have use of the same to a considerable extent.
 It was further observed that the test of place of business being under the
 ―control‖ of a foreign enterprise would be met even though the said
 premises may not be directly owned or taken by way of lease or on
 rental basis. In Formula One World Championship Limited, the
 Supreme Court observed that even a certain amount of space which
 may be placed at the ―disposal‖ of an enterprise for the purposes of the
 use of its business activities would be sufficient. The Supreme Court
 significantly observed that for the purposes of recognizing the existence
 of a Fixed Place PE, no formal legal right to use need be discerned or
 proven. It was thus held that as long as it is space in an establishment
 or premises placed at the constant ―disposal‖ of the enterprise, it would
 satisfy the test of a Fixed Place PE as contemplated under Articles 5 (1) and 5(2)(a)-(k) of the DTAA. 89. The principles governing Fixed Place PE were again spelt out
 and enunciated by the Supreme Court in Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc and

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 80 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Samsung Heavy Industries Company Limited. In Morgan Stanley & Co.
 Inc, and where the following pertinent observations came to be
 rendered: 90. Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc. was followed by the Supreme Court
 in Samsung Heavy Industries Company Limited and where and in the
 context of a Fixed Place PE, the Supreme Court held: Also, it is only so much of the profits of the enterprise that may be
 taxed in the other State as is attributable to that permanent
 establishment.‖

 xxxx xxxx xxxx 31.Though it was pointed out to ITAT that there were only two
 persons working in the Mumbai office, neither of whom was
 qualified to perform any core activity of the assessee, ITAT chose to
 ignore the same. This being the case, it is clear, therefore, that no
 permanent establishment has been set up within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the DTAA, as the Mumbai project office cannot be
 said to be a fixed place of business through which the core business
 of the assessee was wholly or partly carried on. Also, as correctly
 argued by Shri Ganesh, the Mumbai project office, on the facts of
 the present case, would fall within Article 5(4)(e) of the DTAA,
 inasmuch as the office is solely an auxiliary office, meant to act as a
 liaison office between the assessee and ONGC. This being the case,
 it is not necessary to go into any of the other questions that have
 been argued before us.‖ 91. When we test the stand taken by the respondents, bearing in mind
 the aforesaid precepts as culled out from the various judgments noticed
 hereinabove, we find ourselves unable to sustain even the prima facie
 formation of opinion by the first respondent in this respect. It is
 pertinent to note that the impugned notices and the reasons set out for
 initiating action under Sections 147 / 148 nowhere allude to a particular
 space or a part of the premises situated in Noida or Varanasi having
 been placed under the exclusive or significant ―control‖ or "disposal"
 of the petitioner. The first respondent fails to rest its prima facie opinion

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 83 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 with respect to Fixed Place PE on any part of the Noida or Varanasi
 premises which may have been set apart or exclusively placed in and
 under the ―control‖ of the petitioner for use of its business activities and
 which may have tended to indicate that the space was made available
 for the use of the petitioner and from where it was conducting its
 business activities. It would have had to be shown that the ―control‖ of
 that space answered the test of considerable extent. We recall Vogel
 describing this particular genre of a PE as being akin to an "instrument
 (equalling or resembling an operating asset) for his entrepreneurial
 activity". The concept of ―virtual projection‖ is concerned with a
 functional integration between the two units and which would mean an
 establishment which has been virtually used for all purposes to carry
 out the paramount business activity of the petitioner. None of these
 factors are either alluded to or appear to have been borne in
 consideration before arriving at the conclusion that the Indian
 establishment constituted a Fixed Place PE. 92. While it is true that at the stage of initiating an action of
 reassessment, the first respondent was obliged to merely arrive at a
 preliminary satisfaction, as we view the ultimate reasons assigned, they
 clearly fall short of being reflective of the question of a Fixed Place PE
 having been answered in accordance with the principles consistently
 recognized to govern that particular aspect. 93. As had been eloquently observed by the Andhra Pradesh High
 Court in Vishakapatnam Port Trust, the Noida and/or the Varanasi
 premises would have had to be found to amount to a ―virtual
 projection‖, and thus essentially a complete takeover of the premises,
 either in its entirety or even in part, for the purposes of conducting the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 84 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 core business activities of the petitioner. None of the material which has
 been relied upon for the formation of opinion to initiate action under Section 148 answers the aforesaid test. 94. We also take note of the judgment in Formula One World
 Championship Limited, and where it was significantly observed that a
 PE must qualify and meet the tests of stability, productivity and
 dependence. Of equal significance were the observations which
 explained the phrases ―at the disposal of‖ and ―through‖. Tested on the
 aforesaid precepts also, the impugned notices and the reasons set out
 for initiating action under Sections 147 / 148 woefully fail to rest on any
 evidence which could have possibly compelled us in acknowledging
 that a Fixed Place PE had come into being. 95. Undisputedly, the Noida factory premises and the Varanasi office
 would clearly not fall under any of the categories which stand
 specifically enumerated in Article 5(2) and sub-clauses (a) to (k) of the
 India-USA DTAA. We also bear in mind the distinct and divergent
 categories of products, and in the manufacture of which, the petitioner
 and the Indian subsidiary were engaged. Of equal significance was the
 Noida outfit undertaking manufacturing activity in its own right and
 supplying products to various arms of the Indian Railways. All of the
 above, in our considered opinion, when viewed cumulatively, would
 have been sufficient to dispel any presumption of the petitioner
 conducting its business activity from a permanent premises situate in
 India. We are consequently of the firm opinion that the assumption of a
 Fixed Place PE is misconceived and untenable. 96. We then proceed to test the correctness of the prima facie
 conclusions arrived at by the first respondent on the anvil of Article
 5(3) of the India-USA DTAA. As was noticed hereinabove, Article 5(3) excludes PEs' which may otherwise fall within the ambit of Article 5(1) or Article 5(2) , if it were found that the said PE were engaged in the
 discharge of functions enumerated therein. While and undisputedly sub-
 clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Article 5(3) are not even invoked, even if we
 were to examine the correctness of the view taken by the first
 respondent based on sub-clauses (d) and (e), we find ourselves unable
 to sustain the impugned notices and the reasons set out for initiating
 action under Sections 147 / 148 , basis which the impugned notices were
 issued. 97. In terms of Article 5(3)(d) , if a PE were to be engaged solely for
 the purposes of purchase of goods or merchandise, or for that matter for
 ―collecting information‖ for a foreign enterprise, the same would stand
 excluded from the ambit of sub-clauses (1) & (2) of Article 5. The first
 respondent appears to have been heavily influenced by the Indian
 subsidiary - PRIPL routing communications between the petitioner and
 DLW and other arms of the Indian Railways. The first respondent also
 alludes to certain supportive functions such as gathering of information
 and other allied activities allegedly undertaken by PRIPL for and on
 behalf of the petitioner. It becomes pertinent to note that be it collecting
 information or for that matter studying market trends or future business
 prospects, the same would clearly fall not only within the ken of sub-
 clause (d), but also partly within the scope of sub-clause (e) of Article
 5(3). This, since both sub-clauses (d) & (e) are concerned with
 collection or supply of information. We also bear in consideration the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 86 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Supreme Court in Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc having held that market
 research or analysis, data processing support or for that matter, account
 reconciliation are essentially back office functions and support services
 and which would not be sufficient to acknowledge a Fixed Place PE
 existing. 98. That takes us then to further test the stand as struck by the
 respondents and to examine the correctness of their conclusion that the
 activities undertaken by the Indian subsidiary could not be said to be of
 a ―preparatory‖ or ―auxiliary‖ character. The decision of the Supreme
 Court in Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc., while explaining the meaning to
 be ascribed to support services and activities of a ―preparatory‖ or an
 ―auxiliary‖ nature enunciates the legal position in the following terms: Therefore, in our view in the present case MSAS would not constitute
 a fixed place PE under Article 5(1) of DTAA as regards its back office
 operations.‖ 99. Dealing with the very same issue, the Supreme Court in E-Funds
 IT Solutions Inc. made the following pertinent observations: Most of the ATMs were owned by the appellant and its associate
 companies. All these ATMs were installed outside India and
 mainly in United States. Services provided by e-Funds India: The only involvement of e-
 Funds India was responding to queries raised by the customers,
 if they faced any difficulty in operation of their transaction
 which was part of Activity (d ) referred above . (b) Electronic Payment Management

 e-Funds US's Electronic Payment Management segment
 provides products and services in two broad categories: Payment
 Processing Software and Electronic Payment Processing
 Services. The business involves processing transactions for
 regional automated teller machine or ATM networks in the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 88 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 United States and also transaction processing for retail point-of-
 sale terminals that accept payments from debit cards and paper
 cheques that have been converted into electronic transactions. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 Services provided by e-Funds US: e-Funds US was responsible
 for customer interface and customization of products and
 services as per the dictates of the customer. Agreement/Contracts with the customer were entered into by e-
 Funds US. All risks and responsibilities for performance of the
 contract at all times were of e-Funds US only. All
 software's/solutions are developed by e-Funds US. Software
 writing and conceptualisation of ideas were done by e-Funds
 US. All networks and infrastructure for this category of services
 is owned by e-Funds US only. Connex was developed by a
 company acquired by e-Funds US. e-Funds US's associate
 company in United Kingdom has developed and owns the
 Architect software which is middleware used primarily by
 financial institutions in Europe (there is one customer in
 Chicago). This software runs on IBM and Tandem computing
 platforms. All of them were located outside India. In accordance with the terms of the contract with government
 agencies, e-Funds US is responsible for management, support
 and control of the electronic payment band distribution of cash
 benefits to program participants through its ATM and point of
 sale network. Services provided by e-Funds India: e-Funds India provided
 testing, bug fixing and other related software development
 support services to e-Funds US for various software/software
 based solutions developed by e-Funds US. Such services are
 required by e-Funds US in the course of development of
 software/software based solutions and their use in providing
 services to customers. The process of development of
 software/solutions involves testing the same with sample data to
 determine the workability of the software. Further, certain errors
 or bugs may be found in the software/solutions at such e-Funds
 US which avails the services of e-Funds India for bug fixing. The work performed by e-Funds India for e-Funds Government
 Services Business (EBT Processing) was limited to responding
 to the inbound calls made to its call centre for enquiry on non-
 acceptance of cheques and opening of accounts. (c) Decision Support & Risk Management

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 89 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 xxxx xxxx xxxx

 Services provided by e-Funds US: e-Funds US was responsible
 for customer interface and agreement/contracts with the
 customers were entered into by e-Funds US. All risks and
 responsibilities for performance of contracts at all times were of
 e-Funds US only. All e-Funds risk management services are
 based on, or enhanced by e-Funds' proprietary Debit Bureau
 database, which is located in data centres of the group situated in
 USA. Debit Bureau contains over three billion records and
 includes data form e-Funds Chex Systems SM and Scansm
 databases and other sources. The data in Debit Bureau is used to
 screen for potentially incorrect, inconsistent, or fraudulent social
 security numbers, home addresses, telephone numbers, driver
 licence information, and other indicators of possible identity
 manipulation. Using this data, e-Funds US can perform various
 tests to validate a consumer's identity and assess and rank the
 risk of fraud associated with opening an account for or accepting
 a payment from that consumer. e-Funds US software
 development centres in the United States, as well as in the US
 data centres and remotely at the customers' sites develop and
 maintain software for these service offerings. Services provided by e-Funds India: The work performed by e-
 Funds India involved responding to the inbound calls made by
 the customers located outside India to customer support centre
 of e-Funds US. These calls were routed to e-Funds India for
 enquiry on non-acceptance of cheques and opening of accounts. e-Funds India also provided software support services for SCAN
 and Chex process. e-Funds India was only involved in bug
 fixing and software maintenance. (d) Global Outsourcing Services & Professional Services

 xxxx xxxx xxxx

 Services provided by e-Funds US: e-Funds US was responsible
 for Customer Interface and customisation of products and
 services as per the dictates of the customer. Agreement/Contracts with the customers were entered into by e-
 Funds US. All risks and responsibilities for performance of the
 contracts at all times were of e-Funds US only. Services provided by e-Funds India: e-Funds US subcontracted
 part of its responsibilities under professional services contract
 with some of its customers to e-Funds India which involve the
 following: 100. A more elaborate discussion on this aspect is found in its
 decision in UAE Exchange Centre. The Supreme Court while dealing
 with this issue held: 9-1996. From Para 2 of the stated permission, it is evident that RBI
 had agreed for establishing a liaison office of the respondent at
 Cochin, initially for a period of three years to enable the respondent
 to: These are the limited activities which the respondent has been
 permitted to carry on within India. This permission does not allow
 the respondent assessee to enter into a contract with anyone in India,

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 92 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 but only to provide service of delivery of cheques/drafts drawn on
 the banks in India. 32. Notably, the permitted activities are required to be carried out by
 the respondent subject to conditions specified in Clause 3 of the
 permission, which includes not to render any consultancy or any
 other service, directly or indirectly, with or without any
 consideration and further that the liaison office in India shall not
 borrow or lend any money from or to any person in India without
 prior permission of RBI. The conditions make it amply clear that the
 office in India will not undertake any other activity of trading,
 commercial or industrial, nor shall it enter into any business
 contracts in its own name without prior permission of RBI. The
 liaison office of the respondent in India cannot even charge
 commission/fee or receive any remuneration or income in respect of
 the activities undertaken by the liaison office in India. 33. From the onerous stipulations specified by RBI, it could be
 safely concluded, as opined by the High Court, that the activities in
 question of the liaison office(s) of the respondent in India are
 circumscribed by the permission given by RBI and are in the nature
 of preparatory or auxiliary character. That finding reached by the
 High Court is unexceptionable. xxxx xxxx xxxx 36. Having said thus, it must follow that the respondent was not
 carrying on any business activity in India as such, but only
 dispensing with the remittances by downloading information from
 the main server of the respondent in UAE and printing
 cheques/drafts drawn on the banks in India as per the instructions
 given by the NRI remitters in UAE. The transaction(s) had
 completed with the remitters in UAE, and no charges towards
 fee/commission could be collected by the liaison office in India in
 that regard. To put it differently, no income as specified in Section
 2(24) of the 1961 Act is earned by the liaison office in India and
 more so because, the liaison office is not a PE in terms of Article 5 of DTAA (as it is only carrying on activity of a preparatory or
 auxiliary character). The concomitant is -- no tax can be levied or
 collected from the liaison office of the respondent in India in respect
 of the primary business activities consummated by the respondent in
 UAE. The activities carried on by the liaison office of the respondent
 in India as permitted by RBI, clearly demonstrate that the respondent
 must steer away from engaging in any primary business activity and
 in establishing business connection as such. It can carry on activities
 of preparatory or auxiliary nature only. In that case, the deeming
 provisions in Sections 5 and 9 of the 1961 Act can have no bearing
 whatsoever.‖

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 93 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 101. The aspect of whether an Indian establishment was performing
 functions of a ―preparatory‖ or an ―auxiliary‖ character was considered
 by this Court in National Petroleum Construction Co. vs. Director of
 Income-tax (International Taxation )33, and where it was pertinently
 observed: 102. When tested on the aforesaid principles, it becomes apparent that
 the activities undertaken by the Indian subsidiary clearly do not appear
 to travel beyond being ―preparatory‖ or ―auxiliary‖. It is pertinent to
 note that both entities do not appear to have been established with a
 commonality of general purpose. The expression ―preparatory‖ has
 been understood to mean work which is undertaken in contemplation of
 the essential and significant part of the principal activity of an entity.
 The principal or for that matter the essential activity of the petitioner is
 the manufacture and production of goods needed by railroad
 companies. The principal activity is concerned with the core business
 activity of the petitioner. That has clearly not been shown to have been
 undertaken at the Noida premises. Of equal significance are the
 observations appearing in National Petroleum, and where the Court had
 held that while activities undertaken by an entity which is asserted to be
 a ―permanent establishment‖ may contribute to the productivity of the
 foreign enterprise, but if those functions be remote from the actual
 realisation of profits, the tests of a PE would not be satisfied. 103. Although, we have on an independent analysis found that the
 Noida and Varanasi premises would not constitute a Fixed Place PE or
 a Service PE, the first respondent appears to have been significantly
 influenced by the statements which were recorded in the course of the
 survey, and has thereafter come to conclude that various Indian officers
 and employees were working in aid of the business activities of the
 petitioner and providing support services. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 95 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 104. As we view the statement of Mr. Jeetendra Pratap Singh, it
 transpires that the said officer is stated to have submitted that he was
 providing post tender/ post agreement services such as obtaining
 purchase orders, delivery of goods, and providing purchase related
 information to the petitioner as well as the Indian subsidiary. As per his
 statement, he was also engaged in providing information with respect to
 rejections/ modification/ rectification and correction of supplies made
 to DLW, Varanasi. The said employee is further recorded to have stated
 that the risk and responsibility connected with the supply of goods prior
 to May 2018 was placed upon the petitioner, and that after the said
 period, the same came to rest with the Indian subsidiary - PRIPL. A
 similar disclosure was made with respect to the rate of goods to be
 quoted in tenders. 105. It becomes pertinent to note that the aforesaid officer appears to
 have discharged a dual role in keeping a track of supplies made by both
 the Indian subsidiary as well as the petitioner, overseeing the time
 frames for supply of goods and articles, as also following up on any
 rejections or modifications which may have been made by the
 procurers. The aforesaid statement is liable to be viewed in the
 backdrop of the undisputed fact that both the petitioner as well as the
 Indian subsidiary were engaged in effecting supplies to DLW and other
 arms of the Indian Railways. Similarly, the issue of risk and
 responsibility with respect to supply of goods or the quotation of rates
 pertained to periods both prior to and post 2018. It is however unclear
 from a bare reading of the extracts of that statement as to whether that
 function was being discharged with respect to the distinct line of

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 96 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 products that were being supplied by the petitioner or for the Indian
 subsidiary. 106. In our considered opinion, even if the aforesaid officer were
 assumed to be working in a dual capacity and discharging supportive
 functions pertaining to the independent business activity of the
 petitioner and of the Indian subsidiary, the same would clearly not take
 the case of the respondents any further. Regard must be had to the fact
 that the following up of purchase orders or gathering information with
 respect to tenders is work which is clearly of an ―auxiliary‖ or
 ―preparatory‖ character or concerned with the supply or collection of
 information. The follow up functions, though not asserted to have been
 discharged with sufficient repetition or recurrence, would fall more in
 the ken of an ―auxiliary‖ function as opposed to a core business
 function. 107. The officer concerned was also asked to disclose details with
 respect to functional heads and the reporting mechanism of personnel.
 The employee significantly states that reporting to foreign personnel is
 essentially ―to ensure compliance with global best practices of group
 companies‖. He further stated that performance evaluation is
 undertaken by functional heads present in India and insofar as it relates
 to employees of the Indian subsidiary. The appraisal of functional heads
 was stated to be a function discharged by the Indian Managing
 Director, the HR Department of the Indian subsidiary and ―based on
 feedback received from foreign managers as well‖. This too is
 indicative of administrative control of the employees of the Indian
 subsidiary resting in the hands of the management situate in India. The

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 97 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 officer lastly submitted that from 2018 onwards, the Indian subsidiary
 had also started importing after-market/ spare parts from the petitioner
 and supplying them to customers in India. This too would be liable to
 be recognized as an activity independently undertaken by the Indian
 subsidiary as opposed to the carrying on of an essential business
 activity of the petitioner. 108. From the statement of Mr. Shivanshu Narendra Kaushik, it
 transpires that designs and inputs created by employees of the Indian
 subsidiary were also shared with the petitioner. The said officer further
 stated categorically while responding to Question No. 9 that while their
 primary task is ―India specific‖, they were also engaged with teams
 created for designing traction systems as well as locomotives in relation
 to global tenders that may have been submitted by the petitioner. The
 details of the work with which the petitioner was engaged and related to
 overseas tenders submitted by the petitioner have also been recorded in
 his answer to Question No. 10. The officer then appears to have been
 queried with respect to the allocation of work pertaining to design of
 components and locomotive parts for global tenders. Responding to the
 said query, the officer submitted that a team is generally designated and
 created by the petitioner and all the team members work together and
 coordinate with each other. 109. It may only be observed that the engagement of Indian personnel
 in connection with global tenders that were proposed to be submitted or
 one in which the petitioner intended to participate would also clearly
 fall within the ambit of work of an ―auxiliary‖ or ―preparatory‖
 character and not be in furtherance of the core activity of the petitioner. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 98 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 All that need be observed is that merely because the submission of
 those tenders was aided by a collaborative exercise between employees
 of the petitioner and those of the Indian subsidiary, the same would
 clearly not meet the test of a complete takeover, a ―virtual projection‖
 or for that matter the Indian subsidiary being liable to be viewed as an
 ―alter ego‖. 110. We are of the firm opinion that the respondents have clearly
 failed to appreciate that a collaborative team comprising of Indian and
 foreign employees would really not be indicative or evidence of the
 Noida or Varanasi premises having been virtually placed fully at the
 ―disposal‖ of the petitioner. To meet that test, it would have to be found
 on facts that the Indian establishment was a mere conduit created for
 the business interests of the petitioner. K.4. ARTICLE 5(4) AND DAPE 111. It is pertinent to recall that in order to fall within the scope of Article 5(4) , it was imperative for the respondents to have found that
 the Indian subsidiary not only stood conferred with the ―authority to
 conclude contracts‖ but also that it was in fact ―habitually‖ engaged in
 acting in discharge of that authority. The issue of a habitual or recurrent
 exercise of authority does not arise at all since we have already found
 that an ―authority to conclude contracts‖ never stood conferred.
 Suffice it to observe that there is not an iota of evidence which may
 have even remotely justified Article 5(4)(a) being invoked. 112. Similar is the position which emerges when the case as set up
 against the petitioner is examined on the anvil of Article 5(4)(c) of the
 India-USA DTAA. This would have required the respondents to have

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 99 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 established or found, as a matter of fact, that the Indian subsidiary was
 engaged or created solely for the purpose of securing orders for the
 petitioner. Clause (c) of Article 5(4) would have been attracted if the
 respondents had, even on a prima facie examination, found that the
 Indian subsidiary was concerned primarily with securing orders for the
 petitioner. This, in light of the said clause using the expression ―wholly
 or almost wholly for the enterprise‖. Clause (c) not only alludes to
 aspects of an enterprise being exclusively concerned with working for
 the fulfilment of the business interests of another, it would also have to
 be additionally proven that it does so ―habitually‖. 113. The respondents do not dispute the indubitable fact that both the
 petitioner as well as the Indian subsidiary had independent dealings
 with DLW and other arms of the Indian Railways. Of equal importance
 is the table which was relied upon by Mr. Datar extracted hereinabove
 and which indicated the extent of revenue earned by the Indian
 subsidiary and the minuscule percentage of that income being referable
 or relatable to receipts from the petitioner. L. CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS 114. As was noticed by us in the preceding parts of this decision, the
 precedents rendered on the subject of Fixed Place PE bid us to answer
 that question based upon a finding of a fixed place being at the
 ―disposal‖ of and under the "considerable control‖ of a foreign
 enterprise. There is also no material which the respondents may have
 taken into consideration and which would have been indicative of the
 Noida or the Varanasi premises having been virtually placed for the use
 of the petitioner and at its discretion. Even as we go through the various

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 100 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 statements which came to be recorded, they fail to evidence the Noida
 or the Varanasi premises having been placed at the constant ―disposal‖
 of the petitioner. 115. For the purposes of adjudging whether a Fixed Place PE had
 come into existence, one would have to necessarily come to the
 conclusion that the core business of a foreign entity was being carried
 on through a PE. The core business of the petitioner is the manufacture
 of a wide range of products, details whereof have been set out in the
 preceding parts of this decision. As we view and weigh the import of
 the statements which have been heavily relied upon by the respondents,
 it becomes apparent that the view as taken is rendered wholly untenable
 and proceeds on various assumptions which cannot possibly be
 countenanced. Regard must also be had to the fact that the respondents
 do not allege that the products being supplied by the petitioner to DLW
 or other arms of the Indian Railways were being manufactured in India
 and through the Indian subsidiary. This is a factor which weighs
 heavily against the respondents. 116. Insofar as the issues emanating from the MES Agreement
 including the General Services Agreement dated 01 January 2011
 which has been taken into consideration, those and issues arising
 therefrom would have to be necessarily evaluated bearing in mind the
 significant observations which appear in the TPO's order, which not
 only speaks of the Noida premises providing back office support and
 technical support services, but also takes into consideration the Indian
 subsidiary being duly remunerated for those services on a cost plus
 basis. Even if one were to take into consideration the nature of services

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 101 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 which were rendered by the Indian subsidiary under the aforesaid
 agreements, it becomes apparent that all of those would really fall
 within the scope of supportive ―preparatory‖ and ―auxiliary‖ services.
 Be it tracking of Letters of Credit for shipments, monitoring of
 upcoming tenders, coordinating with the petitioner for timely bid
 submission for tenders in the Indian market, gathering technical details,
 these are all services rendered which would fall under the larger
 umbrella of ―preparatory‖ and ―auxiliary‖ services. 117. We have also had an occasion to take note of Article 5(3) and
 sub-clauses (d) and (e) excluding fixed place of businesses used ―solely
 for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise‖ or for that matter
 for ―collecting information‖. The supply of information is a subject
 which is considered alongside activities which would fall within the
 scope of ―preparatory‖ or ―auxiliary‖ functions. Of equal significance
 is the statement of Mr. Phaneendra Kumar Potnuru, the Director-
 Finance of PRIPL, Noida, which came to be recorded under Section
 131 of the Act. While explaining the composition of the Board of
 Directors of the Indian subsidiary, the Director-Finance disclosed that
 two out of the four Directors are foreigners. However, the mere fact
 that the parent company places representatives on the Board of its
 wholly owned subsidiary, would hardly compel one to hold that a PE
 had come into existence. 118. Explaining the working and the functions discharged by the
 Indian subsidiary, the Director-Finance stated as follows: - 119. While taking note of the disclosures made by the Director-
 Finance, the first respondent chronicled the work undertaken by the
 Indian subsidiary for and on behalf of the petitioner by observing as
 follows: - 120. The first respondent failed to bear in mind that most of the
 functions so discharged by the Indian subsidiary were relatable to the
 agreements which formed part of the transfer pricing study. This, in our
 considered opinion, would have been sufficient to discharge any
 presumption of a PE that the said respondent had harboured. This,
 more so since not only did the TPO harbour no doubts in respect of
 those transactions having been undertaken at arm's length, but it also
 having additionally accepted the assertion of the petitioner that those
 were mere back office operations. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 104 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 121. While on this aspect it may be additionally noted that once the
 issue of arm's length remuneration had come to be settled by the TPO,
 the question of ascertaining the existence of a PE would be rendered
 essentially academic since no further attribution could have been made.
 This clearly flows from a reading of Article 7(2) of the India-USA
 DTAA, and which ordains in unambiguous terms that only such part of
 the profit which is attributable to the PE would be taxable in the
 Contracting State. This position was succinctly explained by the
 Supreme Court in Honda Motor Company Limited, Japan vs.
 Assistant Director of Income Tax, Noida & Ors34 , as would be
 evident from the following passages of that decision:- 122. It may however be clarified that the above is noticed only as an
 aside since our conclusions on the question of PE have been rendered
 uninfluenced by the order of the TPO placed before us and which
 pertained to AY 2013-14 only. 123. More importantly, we note that the first respondent has utterly
 failed to bear in consideration the aspects pertaining to a subsidiary PE,
 and which was elaborately canvassed for our consideration by Mr. 34 (2018) 6 SCC 70

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 105 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 Datar. One cannot possibly overlook or ignore the significant
 provisions which stand incorporated in Article 5(6) and which forbids
 us from presuming the existence of a PE, merely because an entity
 residing in a Contracting State is controlled by an entity situate in the
 other Contracting State. This was also not a case where the respondents
 had found that the Indian subsidiary was not engaged in any business
 activity of its own and was acting merely for the purposes of advancing
 the business and economic interests of the petitioner, or one which was
 engaged in a joint business activity through a common place of
 business. A subsidiary PE could be said to have become a mere ―alter
 ego‖ provided it were found that it had no independent business activity
 to undertake or were working only to subserve the business interests of
 the petitioner. The two entities in question also do not appear to have
 functioned with a commonality of general purpose or of dependence. 124. The initiation of the impugned proceedings may also be
 examined on the anvil of Article 5(4) of the India-USA DTAA.
 Although, much was argued at the behest of the respondents resting on
 the seal of the petitioner having been discovered during the course of
 the survey, the impugned notices and the reasons recorded neither rest
 nor proceed on the basis of the Indian subsidiary having been conferred
 the ―authority to conclude contracts‖ on behalf of the petitioner. It
 becomes pertinent to note that the reassessment is not founded on any
 material which may have evidenced the Indian subsidiary having
 entered into contracts for and on behalf of the petitioner with the Indian
 Railways. The respondents have thus not only failed to prima facie
 establish a conferral of authority upon the Indian subsidiary to contract
 on behalf of the petitioner, they also do not base the impugned order on
 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 106 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 any material that may have even remotely established the contracts of
 the petitioner having been executed by the Indian subsidiary for and on
 its behalf. 125. As we had noticed above, the reasons recorded in support of
 reassessment woefully fail to allude to any material or evidence which
 may have even remotely qualified the attraction of the concept of Fixed
 Place PE. As has been repeatedly held, the principle of Fixed Place PE
 is concerned with functional integration and which would satisfy the
 the test of ―through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or
 partly carried out‖. Courts have consistently held that the words ―at the
 disposal of‖ must meet the test of significant ―control‖ and a usage of
 the place of business to a considerable extent. We had noticed
 hereinabove the Manual on the OECD Model Tax Convention and
 which while defining a ―place of business‖ had spoken of an
 establishment which was available to be used at any time of the
 choosing of the foreign enterprise and for its internal administrative
 work. 126. Authoritative texts on the subject speak of a Fixed Place PE
 coming into existence where a space or a part of a facility stand duly
 earmarked for the carrying on of the business of an enterprise. Viewed
 in light of the above, it becomes manifest that the assumption of a
 Fixed Place PE being existing is wholly perverse. We also bear in mind
 the undisputed fact that the Indian subsidiary was not undertaking any
 manufacturing activity of the petitioner. It is equally significant to note
 the absence of any assertion on the part of the respondents that any
 space or part of the Indian establishment had been exclusively set apart

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 107 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 or earmarked for the use of the petitioner. The view as expressed in this
 respect thus also fails to meet the ―at the disposal‖ test as enunciated. 127. It was also not the case of the respondents that the entire
 complement of staff of the Indian subsidiary work under the
 administrative control of the petitioner. In fact, the evidence which has
 been taken note of would establish to the contrary. This, since
 administrative oversight, appraisal and all other HR related functions in
 respect of most of the Indian employees was being regulated by the
 Indian subsidiary. 128. Even as we go through the various statements which were
 recorded in the course of the survey or thereafter, we find that the
 functions discharged by the Indian employees could at best be said to
 be supportive of the business that the petitioner had with DLW and
 other Indian Railway entities. The follow-up of purchase orders or
 modification suggested and the various emails exchanged between the
 petitioner and the Indian subsidiary would at best lead us to conclude
 the latter constituting a medium of communication between the
 petitioner and DLW. In any case, those functions cannot possibly be
 countenanced as constituting the core business activity of the petitioner.
 The core business activity of the petitioner was the manufacture of
 articles and goods detailed hereinabove and their supply to DLW and
 other Indian Railways entities. 129. The respondents also do not rest their case on any alleged sharing
 of revenue between the petitioner and the Indian subsidiary in
 connection with those contracts. As we view the working relationship
 that is asserted to have existed between the petitioner and the Indian

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 108 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 subsidiary, it clearly fails to answer to the test of ―alter ego‖
 companies. While not losing sight of the admitted fact that both the
 petitioner and the Indian subsidiary were engaged in the supply of
 goods to DLW and the Indian Railways, it cannot possibly be said that
 they were performing a joint business activity through a common place
 of business. This, since the line of products themselves were different
 and were being supplied separately. The respondents do not dispute the
 fact that the products of the petitioner were being directly imported to
 India for onward supply to DLW and other constituents of the Indian
 Railways. It was also not their case that there existed some arrangement
 of sharing of revenues between the petitioner and its Indian subsidiary
 in that respect. Neither the emails, the communication trail or for that
 that matter the statement of employees, could lead one to arrive at the
 conclusion that the business of the petitioner was being managed by the
 Indian subsidiary de facto. 130. Regard must also be had to the fact that this Court in Director of
 Income Tax vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc.35 , had held that mere
 interaction or cross-transactions between an Indian enterprise and its
 foreign principal would not meet the location PE test comprised in Article 5(1) & (2). The relevant extracts of the judgment in E-Funds IT
 Solutions Inc., as rendered by this Court is set out hereinbelow: 131. The second test which must necessarily be borne in mind is the
 nature of the activity which was undertaken by the Indian employees
 albeit and allegedly for and on behalf of the petitioner. One must not
 lose sight of the fact that while such interaction and collaboration may

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 110 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 well contribute to the productivity of the petitioner, they clearly appear
 to be extremely remote and removed from the actual realization of
 profits. The collaboration between the two entities and the supportive
 services, if they could legitimately be described as such, clearly did not
 constitute a significant part of the core business activity of the
 petitioner. 132. The inputs that were received from the Indian design team,
 although not specifically shown to be in respect of products or goods
 supplied to Indian Railways, even if one were to proceed on that
 assumption, the same would also not lend any credence to the stand
 taken by the respondents. A collaboration between the constituents of
 the independently employed industrial engineers or designers has firstly
 not been established to be in connection with an India project. The
 respondents had essentially borne in consideration the collaborative
 activities undertaken by the Indian design team for contracts and
 tenders pertaining to Congo and other African nations as well as
 Bangladesh. That collaboration was thus not even concerned with any
 income that could be said to have arisen or accrued in India. Those
 activities in any case would not give rise to any income being earned in
 India. 133. Even if one were to test the conclusions arrived at by the
 respondents on the basis of the response proffered to Question No. 11
 by Mr. Shivanshu Kaushik, the conclusion would remain the same.
 Question No. 11 which was posted to Mr. Kaushik is extracted
 hereinbelow: 134. Insofar as the MES Agreement and other allied agreements are
 concerned, it is clear that in terms of the said agreements, the
 employees of the Indian subsidiary were to keep track of monetary
 balances and record the movement of goods, maintain and coordinate
 the implementation of accounting control procedures, assist in the
 development of both short term and long-term strategy plans, study
 market trends and other such allied activities. Regard must be had to the
 fact that the Indian entity - PRIPL was undoubtedly a wholly owned
 subsidiary of the petitioner, and formed part of the multi-national group - Caterpillar. There would undoubtedly be some degree of
 collaboration and exchange of information between a principal and its
 wholly owned subsidiary. However, that alone would not justify a
 presumption of a PE having come into existence. As has been
 repeatedly emphasized, a subsidiary would be deemed to become a PE
 only if satisfies the tests as laid out in Articles 5(1) , 5(2) , 5(4) and 5(5). A group of companies may well engage in discussions at different
 levels so as to evolve a marketing strategy or identify a research output
 with respect to future prospects. That, however, cannot be viewed as
 being sufficient to hold that the Indian establishment attains the

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 112 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 character of a PE. The exchange and collaboration between entities
 forming part of a larger conglomerate would clearly be intended
 towards subserving the growth of the group as a whole and could relate
 to not only operations in India, but also to any market in the globe in
 which the petitioner may have a footprint. 135. Insofar as the tests laid down in Article 5(4)(a) , (b) and (c) are
 concerned, the same are clearly not met since the respondents have
 failed to refer to any authority that may have been conferred upon the
 Indian entity ―to conclude contracts‖ on behalf of the petitioner. The
 mere discovery of the seal of the petitioner is also not liable to be
 viewed as resulting in clause (a) and stipulations contained therein
 being satisfied. This, since it is not the case of the respondents that the
 Indian entity had been authorized to affix that seal on any document or
 contract. This, quite apart from there being no material that the seal was
 in fact affixed on any contract or agreement to which the petitioner was
 a party. The reasons recorded by the first respondent in support of the
 proposed action under Sections 147 / 148 , also does not refer to any
 contract that the petitioner may have entered into with the Indian
 Railways, and which may have been executed for and on its behalf by
 the Indian subsidiary. The conclusions recorded on this score thus
 clearly appear to proceed on surmises and conjecture. 136. Even clause (c) of Article 5(4) would not stand attracted since
 undisputedly the Indian subsidiary had independent transactions with
 DLW and other Indian Railway entities. It was thus not a mere arm or
 an extension of the petitioner established to secure orders on its behalf
 and that too ―wholly or almost wholly‖ for it. W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 113 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 137. Accordingly, and for all the aforesaid reasons, we are of the
 considered opinion that the opinion as formed by the first respondent on
 the issue of a PE is wholly perverse and untenable. We find ourselves
 unable to sustain that opinion even on a tentative, formative or prima
 facie basis. We are of the firm opinion that that since the very
 foundation on which the impugned action is based is itself rendered
 wholly arbitrary and unsustainable, the impugned reassessment
 proceedings would be liable to be quashed. 138. We bear in mind the indubitable fact that but for the PE question
 being liable to be answered against the petitioner, the first respondent
 would have no authority to proceed. It was thus incumbent for the
 Court to have come to a conclusion that the decision on the question of
 PE had been correctly decided or was at least a tenable or plausible
 view which could have been taken or harboured. We, for reasons
 aforenoted, have found ourselves unable to sustain the opinion as
 formed. In our considered view, the same would not sustain even if that
 opinion were to be tested on a prima facie basis. We also bear in mind
 the fact that the view as expressed by the first respondent in the
 impugned proceedings cannot possibly be countenanced as being either
 tentative or one which left very much for contestation or debate. We
 consequently find ourselves unable to sustain the assumption of
 jurisdiction. M. OPERATIVE DIRECTIONS 139. We accordingly allow the present writ petitions and quash the
 impugned notices issued under Section 148 dated dated 28 March 2019
 [W.P.(C) 12408/2019], 29 April 2019 [W.P.(C) 12405/2019, W.P.(C)

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 114 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45 12406/2019] and 31 May 2019 [W.P.(C) 12407/2019, W.P.(C)
 12409/2019, W.P.(C) 12410/2019 and W.P.(C) 12411/2019] as well as
 other consequential notices issued by the first respondent. This order,
 however, shall be without prejudice to the respondents to independently
 examining whether the office of the petitioner in the Delhi Circle
 constitutes a PE. That is an issue which has neither been examined nor
 ruled upon. Consequently, all rights and contentions of parties in that
 respect are kept open. 140. Since the transfer of the PAN of the petitioner was solely to
 facilitate the first respondent conducting the reassessment, and which
 we have for reasons aforenoted found to be unsustainable, the order
 dated 05 November 2019 passed by the fourth respondent transferring
 the jurisdiction of the PAN of the petitioner from the fourth to the first
 respondent shall also stand quashed. The PAN mapping shall revert to
 the jurisdictional AO of the petitioner, namely, the fourth respondent in
 W.P.(C) 12408/2019, W.P.(C) 12405/2019, W.P.(C) 12406/2019, and
 the fifth respondent in W.P.(C) 12407/2019, W.P.(C) 12409/2019,
 W.P.(C) 12410/2019, W.P.(C) 12411/2019, namely - DCIT/ACIT,
 International taxation, Circle 1(1)(1), Delhi. YASHWANT VARMA, J. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J. MAY 28, 2024/RW

 W.P.(C) 12405/2019 & Connected Matters Signature Not Verified Page 115 of 115 Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:28.05.2024 19:25:45