SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Irresponsible whatsapp hoax forwarding my educated masses..
DATE: 2016-03-09
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/49o69n/irresponsible_whatsapp_hoax_forwarding_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Received the following message in a whatsapp group..

&gt;Medical - Second Opinion

&gt;BEWARE OF CORPORATE HOSPITALS AND CORPORATE DOCTORS.

&gt;Corporate hospitals are paying a salary of one and half lakh per month to their doctors. But they have monthly targets. the target condition for them to remain in job is that, they have to write tests and and scans worth 3 lakhs and trap 25 patients for surgery every month. This is not happening in charity hospitals. In many hospitals, unwanted surgeries and risky premature cataract surgeries are being carried out. One has to be fearful of corporate hospitals. If you show your medical card or if you say " Doctor, don't bother about expense, please save the life " to a corporate doctor, you are gone. If they terrify you and do not give time to think, you should become alert. A genuine doctor will talk encouragingly and don't terrify you. You can ask your family doctor or a friendly doctor to visit the patient as a visitor and take a second opinion before plunge into corporate hands

&gt;If you or your family have been advised a surgery or a medical procedure and if you are confused about the medical options for you, then call at 70266 46022 or send your medical reports at medical@medisense.me or visit medisensehealth.com. They will get you a second opinion from an expert doctors panel. It is a free service for patients.

&gt;This free service for patients is available in 21 cities in India which includes UDUPI, mangalore, Bangalore, mumbai, chennai, Hyd etc. Pls pass on to all your loved ones.

If you open the website mentioned in the message, they have the following disclaimer running on the front page itself..

&gt;It has come to our notice that in whatsapp and other social media platforms, derogatory messages against corporate hospitals and doctors are floated and our website Medisensehealth.com. Is promoted in the same message. We would like to make it amply clear that this message is not floated by Medisense and we do not subscribe to this view. In fact there are many corporate hospitals which has come forward to help the patients get a free second opinion. We would also request the public not to promote or share this message. Many thanks for your kind cooperation and being socially responsible. Many thanks. Team Medisensehealth.com

So ppl just forward whatever hoax they receive and don't even check the link that the message is promoting..

This is the height of irresponsibility from the youth, they sometimes even share highly inflammatory fake videos and pictures that can also trigger riots..