1. This is a suit under Order XXXVII of Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. 

 The facts relevant for disposal of the suit are that the plaintiff has 

 instituted the suit pleading that the plaintiff is a banking company and 

 has instituted the suit through its authorized representative. It is 

 averred that the defendant had approached ICICI Bank Ltd. for 

 financial assistance to purchase a vehicle. The loan was sanctioned 

 by ICICI Bank on 30.06.2005 under the Loan­cum­Hypothecation 

 Scheme of the bank. A sum of Rs. 2,53,000/­ was granted as loan to 

 purchase an "Alto LXI" vehicle. The vehicle was hypothecated. The 

 loan was to be repaid by the defendant in 58 equated monthly 

 installments of Rs. 5360/­ each. Loan documents comprising of a 

 loan agreement dated 30.06.2005, a deed of hypothecation and an 

 irrevocable power of attorney were executed between the ICICI Bank 

 and the defendant. The defendant defaulted in repayment of the loan 

 in terms of the agreement. He also failed to allow the plaintiff's 

 representative to inspect the vehicle. 2. The plaintiff has further stated in the plaint that by deed of 

 assignment dated 30.06.2008, the loan accounts of ICICI Bank Ltd., 

 including the loan of the defendant, were assigned to M/s. Asset 

 Reconstruction Company (India) Ltd., and the said loan accounts 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 2 of 26
 came to be further assigned by the latter in favour of the plaintiff bank 

 by deed of assignment dated 31.12.2009. 3. The plaintiff has further stated in the plaint that it had issued demand 

 notice dated 28.04.2011 demanding payment of a sum of Rs. 

 2,21,931/­ from the defendant which was outstanding as on 

 31.10.2009, alongwith interest. The defendant was also directed to 

 return the hypothecated vehicle. The defendant failed to comply with 

 the notice. The plaintiff therefore instituted the present suit to recover 

 the said sum of money. 4. An application for leave to defend has been filed on behalf of the 

 defendant on a number of grounds, which are summarized as follows: 5. I have heard arguments and have perused the record. 6. According to the plaintiff, the defendant had availed loan from ICICI 

 Bank Ltd. and defaulted in repayment. The loan account stood 

 assigned to the plaintiff and therefore the plaintiff has prayed for 

 recovery of the outstanding sum. 7. The pleas taken in the application for leave to defend are separately 

 assessed hereinafter. A. That the suit is false, frivolous and concocted. 8. The defendant has contended that the suit is false, frivolous and 

 based on concocted facts. 9. The facts mentioned in the plaint which are incorrect or untrue have 

 not been pointed out by the defendant. The contention of the 

 defendant appears to be bald and unsubstantiated. It is settled law 

 that the pleas in defence have to be specific. Where 

 misrepresentation is alleged, its particulars have to be spelt out. 10. Having failed to give particulars of the allegedly incorrect facts, the 

 said contention cannot be accepted. If such contentions, unsupported 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 4 of 26
 by any material, are allowed to deprive the plaintiff of judgment in a 

 suit under Order XXXVII of Code of Civil Procedure , it would be 

 frustrate the very objective of a summary trial. The aforesaid 

 contention of the defendant is vague and is hereby rejected. 

 B. That the plaintiff has no right to institute the suit since the 
 defendant has not taken any loan from the plaintiff. The plaintiff 
 bank has failed to file the assignment deed dated 30.06.2008 in 
 favour of the plaintiff to establish that the loan account stands 
 assigned to the plaintiff. 11. The defendant has, in paragraph no.7 of the application for leave to 

 defend, admitted that he had taken loan of Rs. 2,53,000/­ on 

 30.06.2005. According to the defendant, the loan had been taken not 

 from the plaintiff but from ICICI Bank and therefore the plaintiff has no 

 right to recover the outstanding dues. 12.The aforesaid plea presents a question of law and not a question of 

 fact. This is because the fact that loan had been availed by the 

 defendant from ICICI Bank Ltd. is not disputed by the defendant. It is 

 therefore the admitted case of both parties that loan had been taken 

 from ICICI Bank Ltd. This fact does not require adjudication and 

 therefore there is no need to hold trial. 13.The aforesaid question of law is answered herein. It is settled law that 

 a debt can validly be assigned. For the said assignment, consent of 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 5 of 26
 the debtor is not needed. The right to obtain money is a benefit 

 arising out of the contract. Before recovering the loan, there was 

 nothing remaining to be done by the creditor i.e. ICICI Bank Ltd. 

 Hence, the bank had only to receive the benefits of the contract. 

 These benefits are assignable. For this assignment of debt, the bank 

 did not require the consent of the debtor. It is settled law that benefits 

 arising out of a contract can be assigned without the consent of the 

 remaining contracting parties and such assignment is binding on 

 such parties such that the transferee can compel such parties to 

 perform their part. Reference may be made to Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 

 1882 which defines "actionable claim" as under : 14.The right to recover money as an unpaid debt qualifies as "actionable 

 claim", as defined above. An actionable claim is transferable and 

 assignable, as per Section 130 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. 

 It is further laid down under the said provision that in a suit by the 

 transferee (which in this case is the plaintiff) to enforce performance 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 6 of 26
 of the contract, it is not necessary to join the transferor (which in this 

 case is ICICI Bank Ltd). Section 130 of Transfer of Property Act, 

 1882 is quoted as under: Provided that every dealing with the debtor other actionable claim by 
 the debtor or other person from or against whom the transferor would, 
 but for such instrument of transfer as aforesaid, have been entitled to 
 recover or enforce such debt or other actionable claim, shall (save 
 where the debtor or other person is a party to the transfer or has 
 received express notice thereof as hereinafter provided) be valid as 
 against such transfer. (2) The transferee of an actionable claim may, upon the execution of 
 such instrument of transfer as aforesaid, sue or institute proceedings 
 for the same in his own name without obtaining the transferor's 
 consent to such suit or proceeding and without making him a party 
 thereto. Exception : Nothing in this section applies to the transfer of a marine 
 or fire policy of insurance or affects the provisions of section 38 of the 
 Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938)." 15.One of the foremost authorities on this point was the case of 

 Sakalaguna Nayudu v. Chinna Munuswami Nayakar AIR 1928 PC 174. In that case, the facts were that a village was sold with an option 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 7 of 26
 to the seller to repurchase the village after 30 years on payment of 

 Rs. 10,000. The seller later assigned this right of repurchasing the 

 village to the plaintiff. The plaintiff tendered Rs. 10,000 and asked the 

 owner of the village to sell it to him. The owner of the village refused. 

 The plaintiff sued the owner. The owner contended that the plaintiff 

 was a stranger to the initial transaction. He contended that the option 

 to repurchase was not even a ripe contract and was a mere offer 

 which could not be assigned. This contention was rejected by the 

 Privy Council by holding that the benefit of the initial contract could be 

 validly assigned to a third party and that third party was entitled to 

 sue for its enforcement. In the case of Champarun Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Haridas Mundhra and 

 Ors. AIR 1966 Cal 134, the Hon'ble High Court of Calcutta quoted 

 with approval the following observation of Collins M. R. made in the 

 case of Tolhurst v. Associated Cement Manufacturers, (1902) 2 KB 

 660: In the case of Manmatha Nath Mullick v. Hedait Ali (1932) 34 Bom L 

 R 489, the Hon'ble Bombay High Court upheld the right of the plaintiff 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 8 of 26
 to recover money as attorney of the creditor from debtors with whom 

 he had no privity of contract. Reference may also be made to clause 5 of "Rights and Remedies of 

 ICICI Bank" prescribed in the vehicle loan­cum­hypothecation 

 agreement whereby the right of the ICICI Bank to transfer the debt 

 has been expressly preserved. From the aforesaid, it is clear that the right to recover the debt is 

 assignable and could be validly transferred by ICICI Bank Ltd. in 

 favour of the plaintiff without obtaining the consent or permission of 

 the defendant. 16.Careful perusal of the application for leave to defend reveals that the 

 defendant has not denied or disputed the assignment of debt. His 

 only grievance is that the assignment deed dated 30.06.2008 is not 

 on record. That plea is factually incorrect and contrary to the record 

 since the assignment deed is very much on the judicial record having 

 been filed by the plaintiff with the plaint. It also finds mention in the 

 list of documents filed by the plaintiff. Hence, the assignment of the 

 debt cannot be doubted. The said plea of the defendant is therefore 

 rejected. Since the defendant's denial to the assignment of debt, if 

 any, is based on the alleged absence of the assignment deed and 

 since this averment as to the absence of the assignment deed has 

 been negatived, the said denial to the assignment of debt cannot be 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 9 of 26
 accorded credence. 17. Moreover, the plea of the defendant is that "the plaintiff bank has not 

 filed any such document dt. 30.06.2008 i.e. Deed of assignment in 

 favour of the plaintiff bank" (para no.3 of the application for leave to 

 defend). It is worth mentioning that it is nobody's case that by deed of 

 assignment dated 30.06.2008, the debt stood assigned in favour of 

 the plaintiff. It is clearly stated in the plaint that by the said deed of 

 assignment dated 30.06.2008, the debt was assigned in favour of 

 M/s. Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Ltd. The debt came to be 

 assigned to the plaintiff not by the aforesaid deed but by a 

 subsequent deed of assignment dated 31.12.2009. It appears that the 

 defendant has misunderstood the pleadings. His contention is without 

 merit. 18.The plaintiff had issued demand notice dated 28.04.2011 to the 

 defendant prior to institution of the suit. The plaint is accompanied by 

 copies of the said notice as well as postal receipt which shows that 

 the notice had been duly dispatched to the correct address. The 

 defendant is deemed to have been served with the notice. The 

 defendant has also not denied receipt of the notice. It is strange that 

 the defendant did not raise the instant plea regarding assignment of 

 debt by responding to the said notice. If the defendant had a bona 

 fide defence regarding the authority of the plaintiff to recover the loan, 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 10 of 26
 he would have canvassed that defence by replying to the notice. He 

 could have questioned the competence of the plaintiff to issue 

 demand notice seeking recovery of dues owed to ICICI Bank Ltd. 

 Failure to reply to the notice shows that defendant had nothing to 

 state in response thereto and the instant plea of the defendant is not 

 tenable. In the case of Ajab Singh Punia vs. Joginder Singh , AIR 2003 NOC 

 496, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi observed that the legal demand 

 notice had been served upon the defendant and was not replied to. It 

 was also noticed that a promissory note had been executed between 

 the plaintiff and the defendant. The application for leave to defend 

 was rejected. 19.The plaintiff has admitted that he has taken loan from ICICI Bank Ltd. 

 The assignment deeds dated 30.06.2008 and 31.12.2009, the 

 genuineness of which has not been disputed by the plaintiff, clearly 

 show that the said loan stands assigned to the plaintiff. Hence, 

 plaintiff is entitled to recover the debt. 20.The contention of the defendant is rejected. 

 C. That the plaintiff bank has no cause of action against the 
 defendant. 21.The defendant has contended that the plaintiff bank has no cause of 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 11 of 26
 action against him. The defendant has however not elaborated or 

 explained this contention. 22.The expression "cause of action" has been succinctly explained by 

 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the case of Kanwal Kishore 

 Manchanda & Anr. V. S.D.Technical Services Pvt. Ltd. 121(2005) DLT 

 98 in which it was observed as follows: 23. From the above, it is inferred that cause of action is the threat to the 

 invasion of one's rights which prompts that person to move Court for 

 the enforcement of his rights. In the present case, the plaintiff has 

 clearly stated in the plaint that the defendant has failed to repay his 

 debt in full. The defendant had also not disputed that his debt is yet to 

 be discharged. The failure of the defendant to adhere to be 

 repayment schedule furnishes sufficient cause to impel the plaintiff to 

 institute the suit. That despite service of demand notice (which has 

 not been disputed by the defendant in the application for leave to 

 defend), the defendant failed to repay the loan or to even respond to 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 12 of 26
 the notice, made it abundantly clear that the defendant would not 

 honour his undertaking to repay the debt. In those circumstances, the 

 plaintiff was left with no option but to move court. The plaintiff had 

 cause of action in his favour. The contention of the defendant is 

 rejected. D. That when the defendant took loan of Rs. 2,53,000/­ from ICICI 
 Bank of 30.06.2005, the bank obtained signatures of the 
 defendant on blank papers. 24.The defendant had admitted that he had taken loan. He has admitted 

 the terms of contract in paragraph no.7 of his application for leave to 

 defend. He has however submitted that his signatures were obtained 

 on blank papers. 25.Once the terms of agreement and the liability of the defendant to pay 

 installments is admitted by the defendant, the question as to whether 

 the signatures were obtained on the blank sheets or on the contract 

 papers becomes irrelevant. Since the terms of contract stand 

 admitted, they need not be proved. 26.Moreover, to appreciate this contention in proper perspective, 

 reference may be made to the documents filed by the plaintiff with the 

 plaint. The documents include the loan­cum­hypothecation 

 agreement and the demand promissory note. The terms of 

 agreement are mentioned therein. The schedule to the agreement is 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 13 of 26
 also filled in and indicates the hypothecated vehicle and the 

 installments of repayment. The agreement is executed on standard 

 form, which ex facie reveals that it was not completely blank at the 

 time of being signed by the defendant. 27. Significantly, the defendant has not denied his signatures on the 

 abovementioned documents. He has also not pleaded that the 

 documents were prepared against his will or without his authority or 

 that they were not intended to be used for the present purpose. 

 Having admittedly signed and executed the said documents, it is not 

 open to the defendant to take a contrary plea before the Court. The 

 contention of the defendant is barred by Section 92 of the Evidence 

 Act, 1872. 28.The defendant is an educated person. There is no reason for him to 

 refrain from filling up the blank sheets, if any, by himself or to depend 

 on the officials of the ICICI Bank for this. It is not the case of the 

 defendant that any kind of pressure, influence or coercion was 

 exerted upon him to compel him to sign the said documents. Yet, if 

 the defendant does so, it must be at his own peril. The defendant 

 cannot now be permitted to assail the validity of the documents on 

 the ground that they were not filled up by him. 29.Even if it is assumed that the defendant had signed blank documents, 

 by doing so, the defendant is deemed to have authorized the officials 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 14 of 26
 of ICICI Bank Ltd. to fill up the document on his behalf. Hence, while 

 filling up the document, the officials of the ICICI Bank Ltd. were acting 

 as agents of the defendant. In conformity with Section 226 of the 

 Contract Act, 1872, the defendant is bound by this act of the agents. 30.Further, had the defendant wanted to disclaim or repudiate the 

 agreement on the ground that he had not consented to the terms of 

 loan agreement, he ought to have done so at the earliest opportunity. 

 He should not have waited for the loan to be sanctioned. Even after 

 sanction of the loan, he could have refused to accept the money 

 disbursed. At least after disbursement of the money, he could have 

 returned it to the bank. The defendant chose not to do any of this. 

 Instead, he accepted the money, used it up, defaulted in repaying the 

 loan and only after the plaintiff sued to recover the outstanding sum 

 did the defendant raise the instant plea to escape from her liability. 

 This is not permissible under law. The delay in raising this plea shows 

 that it is a mere afterthought. In this behalf, reference may be made 

 to the case of KLG Systel Ltd. vs. M/s. Fujitsu ICIM Ltd. AIR 2001 

 Delhi 357. In that case, the plaintiff had instituted a summary suit to 

 recover payment of purchase price of goods sold and delivered to the 

 defendant. The defence of the defendant was that the goods were 

 defective. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi rejected the defence and 

 declined leave to defend on the ground that this plea had been raised 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 15 of 26
 for the first time after institution of the suit. It was observed as under : 31. Having accepted and used up the loan amount, the defendant had 

 impliedly accepted the terms of the loan, in keeping with Section 8 of 

 the Contract Act, 1872. He cannot now avoid the said terms. Hence, 

 even if the explicit agreement bearing the signatures of the defendant 

 is not taken into consideration, the implied acceptance of the 

 defendant fortifies the claim of the plaintiff. This is besides the fact 

 that the terms of the loan agreement have been admitted by the 

 defendant in his application for leave to defend. 32.Further, the mere filling up of the document by the officials of ICICI 

 Bank Ltd. does not invalidate the agreement. It does not indicate that 

 the consent of the defendant was not free or that it was induced by 

 coercion, undue influence, fraud or misrepresentation so as to 

 impinge upon the validity of the agreement. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 16 of 26
 In the case of Vipin Gupta v. Prem Singh 2007(5) R.C.R.(Civil) 223, 

 the Hon'ble High of Court of Delhi emphasized the binding nature of 

 written documents and observed as under : KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 17 of 26 33.After availing the loan, the defendant admittedly made payment of 

 certain installments. If the terms of loan were not acceptable to him, 

 he would not have repaid any part of the loan. The payment of certain 

 installments itself shows that the terms of loan were acceptable to the 

 defendant and that the instant plea is only a feeble attempt to escape 

 from contractual liabilities. 34.The defence raised by the defendant does not inspire confidence. 

 The defendant had consciously executed the loan­cum­

 hypothecation agreement. The document contains the terms and 

 conditions of loan. The defendant cannot be permitted to plead 

 ignorance thereof. It was his duty to read the document and to satisfy 

 himself as to its terms and conditions before executing it. After having 

 signed the agreement, after having availed the loan and after 

 defaulting in repayment, he cannot be permitted to resile from its 

 terms on flimsy grounds. If the defendant is permitted to release 

 himself from the document admittedly signed by him, the very 

 purpose of executing the document would be frustrated and the 

 document would be rendered devoid of sanctity. In the case of Sapna Saree Centre v. Bank of Rajasthan AIR 2001 

 Raj 67, the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court held that merely denying 

 the execution of incriminating documents is not sufficient to entitle the 

 defendant to leave to defend. It was observed: In the present case, the claim of the plaintiff is crystallized by the 

 documents filed by it. The credibility of the documents is not eroded 

 by the aforesaid plea of the defendant, which is hereby rejected. 

 E. That the defendant has been regularly making payment of 
 monthly installments and has paid 18 installments. 35.The defendant has contended that he has been regularly paying 

 monthly installments and has already paid 18 installments. 36.Firstly, the aforesaid plea is in conflict with other contentions of the 

 defendant. On one hand, the defendant has stated in paragraph no.7 

 of his application for leave to defend that he has been regularly 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 19 of 26
 paying installments. On the other hand, in paragraph no.8 of the 

 application, he has stated that payment of installments was irregular. 

 In view of the patent contradiction, the contention of the plaintiff that 

 he has been regularly paying installments cannot be believed. 37. Secondly, all the 18 installments claimed to have been paid by the 

 defendant have been shown in the statement of account. It is only 

 after taking into account the said installments that, as per the 

 statement of account, the recovery of the balance sum is prayed for. 

 Hence, making payment of the aforesaid installments does not 

 enable the defendant to escape his liability. 38.Thirdly, the defendant has not placed on record any receipt or other 

 document to establish that he had made payment of a sum of money 

 which has not been shown in the statement of account or that the 

 sum shown to have been paid by the defendant in the statement of 

 account is less than that actually paid. This contention has not even 

 been urged in the application for leave to defend. In what manner the 

 statement of account filed by the plaintiff is incorrect has not been 

 explained by the defendant. A denial has to be specific. The 

 defendant has not filed his own statement of account to establish that 

 the statement of account of the plaintiff is erroneous. He has not 

 stated the amount which, according to him, is payable by him to the 

 creditor bank. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 20 of 26 39.For the aforesaid reasons, the above contention of the defendant is 

 bald and does not furnish a valid defence. F. That the hypothecated vehicle has already been lifted by ICICI 
 Bank Ltd., without any notice or information to the defendant. 
 The defendant, who had no knowledge of this had registered FIR 
 no. 142 dated 09.07.2009 regarding theft of vehicle. The vehicle 
 has already been illegally sold by the bank. 40.The defendant has contended that the hypothecated vehicle has 

 already been lifted by ICICI Bank Ltd., without any notice or 

 information to the defendant, and has been illegally sold. The 

 defendant has stated that he had registered FIR no. 142 dated 

 09.07.2009 regarding theft of vehicle. 41. The first question is whether the vehicle has been illegally acquired 

 by ICICI Bank Ltd. According to the defendant, the vehicle was stolen 

 by the officials of the bank. This plea is however negated by the FIR 

 no. 142/2009 admittedly registered by the defendant. In the said FIR, 

 the defendant has not mentioned that his vehicle has been taken 

 away by the officials of the bank. Rather he has pleaded ignorance of 

 the identity of the person who had committed the theft. Having regard 

 to the FIR, the submission of the defendant that theft was committed 

 by officials of the plaintiff bank appears to be concocted and an 

 afterthought. Yet, even assuming that to be so, it is settled law that 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 21 of 26
 there is no vicarious liability of a criminal act. Hence, for the said 

 theft, the defendant may have his remedies against the delinquent 

 officials but cannot saddle the bank with liability for the said criminal 

 act. Consequently, he cannot set off his own contractual liability with 

 the value of the vehicle. 42.Further, it has already been noted above that the defendant is bound 

 by the vehicle loan­cum­hypothecation application signed by him. As 

 per clause 20 of the said agreement, the bank is at liberty to regain 

 possession of the hypothecated vehicle and is not responsible for 

 loss or damage to the vehicle by any means including theft. Hence, 

 the alleged theft does not aid the defendant in escaping his liability. 43.Further, as per the aforesaid agreement (clause 3 of "Rights and 

 Remedies of ICICI Bank"), the bank is not under an obligation to sell 

 the vehicle and the bank is entitled to proceed against the borrower 

 (defendant herein) independently of sale of the vehicle. Hence, the 

 defendant is not entitled to raise any objection regarding sale of the 

 vehicle and application of proceeds. 44.According to the defendant, the sale of the vehicle is illegal and 

 unlawful. In what manner and for what reason the said sale is tainted 

 has not been explained by the defendant. He has simply stated that 

 the bank was not empowered to sell the vehicle without notice to the 

 defendant. However, the requirement of issuance of prior notice has 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 22 of 26
 not been specified in the loan­cum­hypothecation agreement and 

 therefore even if it is assumed that the vehicle was sold without notice 

 to the defendant, that would not vitiate the alleged sale. According to 

 the terms of the loan­cum­hypothecated agreement, the plaintiff bank 

 is free to dispose off or sell the vehicle in the manner it deems fit. The 

 defendant, having executed the said document, cannot resile from its 

 terms. Importantly, it is not the case of the defendant that the vehicle 

 has been sold at a value less than its market worth thereby causing 

 loss to the defendant. Hence, the said sale has no bearing on the 

 defendant's liability. In the case of ONGC Vs. State Bank of India AIR 2000 SC 2548, the 

 Hon'ble Supreme Court held that leave to defend shall not be granted 

 unless the existence of fraud pleaded to disclaim liability is clearly 

 demonstrated. It was observed as under: 45.The aforesaid contention of the defendant is devoid of merit and is 

 rejected. 46.The contentions of the defendant are sham. The defendant has no 

 substantial defence to raise and there are no triable issues in the 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 23 of 26
 case. In the case of Santosh Kumar v. Bhai Mool Singh , AIR 1958 SC 321, 

 it was held as under: In the case of M/s Mechalec Engineers and Manufacturers Vs. M/s 

 Basic Equipment Corporation 1977 AIR SC 577, the Hon'ble Supreme 

 Court held that leave to defend must not be granted if the defence set 

 up is illusory, sham or practically moonshine.

 In the case of Mrs. Raj Duggal v. Ramesh Kumar Bansal AIR 1990 

 SC 2218 it was held as follows : The defendant is only trying to avoid the responsibility to repay the 

 loan. This cannot be permitted. The application for leave to defend is 

KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 24 of 26
 hereby dismissed. 47. The plaintiff is entitled to judgment and decree in his favour and 

 against the defendant in accordance with Order 37 Rule 3 (6)(a) of 

 Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. 48.The plaint and documents enclosed therewith are perused. According 

 to the plaint, the defendant has failed to make payment as per the 

 agreement and a sum of Rs. 2,21,931/­ is outstanding and payable 

 by the defendant to the plaintiff. The plaint is accompanied by 

 documents which establish the correctness of the averments made in 

 the plaint. The claim for pre­suit interest is founded on the agreed 

 rate as embodied in the loan documents. The entire claim of the 

 plaintiff is a liquidated sum and falls within the purview of Order 37 

 Rule 1 of Code of Civil Procedure . There is nothing on record to 

 establish that the defendant has paid the sum claimed by the plaintiff 

 or that he is not liable to make the said payment on account of some 

 other reason. The suit is within limitation and this Court is vested with 

 territorial and pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain the suit. Having 

 perused the plaint and documents filed in support thereof, I am 

 satisfied that the plaintiff has made out a case for recovery of the sum 

 taken on loan by the defendant as well as pre­suit interest at the 

 agreed rate. The plaintiff is entitled to recovery of a sum of Rs. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. VS. CHANDER MUNI
CS No.484/11 page 25 of 26
 2,21,931/­ from the defendant. 49.The plaintiff has also prayed for pendente lite and future interest at 

 the rate of 24% per annum. However, having regard to the prevailing 

 bank rates, ends of justice would be met if the plaintiff is awarded 

 pendente lite interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of 

 institution of the suit till the date of decree and future interest at the 

 rate of 6% per annum from the date of decree till realization. The 

 plaintiff is also entitled to recovery of costs of suit from the defendant. 50.Hence, in terms of Order XXXVII of Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, 

 the suit is decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant 

 for a sum of Rs. 2,21,931/­ alongwith pendente lite interest at the rate 

 of 6% per annum from the date of institution till the date of decree, 

 future interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of decree till 

 realization on the sum adjudged and also costs of the suit. Decree 

 sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.