VIBHU BAKHRU, J 1. The present appeal impugns the order dated 13.03.2013 passed by a
learned Single Judge of this Court in W.P.(C)2541/2011. The learned
Single Judge has dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellant whereby
the appellant had, inter-alia, challenged the punitive measure of
compulsory retirement imposed on the appellant on account of him being
found guilty of sexual harassment. 2. It is contended before us that the findings of guilt returned by the
Enquiry Committee, Disciplinary Authority and the Appeals Committee are
based on no evidence and are, thus, perverse. It is also contended on behalf LPA No. 330/2013 Page 1 of 17 of the appellant that the Registrar of the respondent is not the Competent
Authority to impose the penalty and, therefore, the order imposing penalty
is without jurisdiction and is liable to be set aside. 3. The learned Single Judge has rejected the contentions urged on
behalf of the appellant and has held that the findings arrived at by the
Enquiry Committee, which conducted the inquiry into the allegations
levelled against the appellant, are correct and there is no perversity in the
finding of guilt returned by the authority. The learned Single Judge has also
rejected the contention that the Registrar of respondent no. 1 university is
not competent to impose penalty as the same could have been imposed only
by the Vice Chancellor. 4. The appellant was employed with the respondent no. 1 university as
a Personal Assistant. A complaint was made by respondent no. 5, who is
working as an Associate Professor at the Centre for South, Central,
Southeast Asian and Southwest Pacific Studies, that she was harassed by
the appellant. The substance of the allegations made in the complaint are
as under:- 5. The respondent no.1 University has constituted a Gender
Sensitisation Committee against Sexual Harassment by a notification dated
16th April, 1999. The Committee so constituted is charged with the
function of implementing the policy of respondent no.1 against sexual
harassment and also the guidelines as laid down by the Supreme Court in
the case of Vishakha v. State of Rajasthan : (1997) 6 SCC 241. The
respondent no.1 University has also published Rules and Procedures of the
Gender Sensitization Committee, which are applicable to the complaints of
sexual harassment made on the campus of the respondent no. 1 university.
The said Rules and Procedures are hereinafter referred to as "GSCASH
Rules". 6. On receipt of the complaint, the Gender Sensitisation Committee
Against Sexual Harassment (hereinafter referred to as "GSCASH
Committee") of respondent no. 1 issued a restraint order dated 30.09.2008
against the appellant. The complainant (respondent no.5) reported a
violation of this restraint order and, thus, a second restraint order was
issued to the appellant on 26.02.2009. In terms of the GSCASH Rules, the
complaint made by respondent no. 5 was examined by the Complaint
Screening Committee and based on the recommendations of the Complaint
Screening Committee, an Enquiry committee was formed on 12.03.2009 to LPA No. 330/2013 Page 3 of 17 inquire into the allegations made against the appellant. The Enquiry
Committee framed the following charges:- 7. The appellant denied the charges. The Enquiry Committee recorded
the statement of respondent no. 5 (complainant) and examined 8 (eight)
witnesses. The evidence of the 8 witnesses was also provided to the
appellant although their identities were not disclosed. Although, the
appellant was given full opportunity to submit questions for cross-
examination of the witnesses in accordance with the GSCASH Rules, the
appellant did not avail of the said opportunity and did not submit any
questions for any of the complainant's witnesses. However, the appellant
did submit questions for the complainant and answers with respect to them
were duly recorded. It is recorded that the conduct of the appellant before
the Enquiry Committee was rude and that he also tried to intimidate the
members of the Enquiry Committee. The tone and tenor of the letters
written by the appellant to the Enquiry Committee is also rude and
offensive. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has
fairly conceded that the complainant had misbehaved with the Enquiry LPA No. 330/2013 Page 4 of 17 Committee and his conduct was offensive and most undesirable. Be that as
it may, the Enquiry Committee proceeded with the inquiry and after
examining the witnesses and collecting the evidence arrived at the
following findings"- 08.10.2008 on the password verification request dated
 3.10.2008 and the net searched documents dated 22.10.2008
 and 24.10.2008 etc., it is proved that: 10. The appellant sent various letters seeking certain documents and
also informed that he would be exercising his right to appeal, to an Appeals
Committee, against the penalty being imposed on him. 11. On 29.07.2010, the Registrar of the respondent no. 1 issued another
memorandum informing the appellant that the Vice Chancellor had
accepted the report submitted by the GSCASH Committee and after
considering the representation of the appellant was satisfied that the
charges levelled against the appellant were correct. Consequently, a penalty
of compulsory retirement without any reduction in financial benefits was
imposed on the appellant and his name was struck off from the rolls of the
university. The said memorandum dated 29.07.2010 reads as under: 12. Aggrieved by the memorandum dated 29.7.2010, the appellant
preferred a writ petition being W.P.(C) No. 5791/2010, which was disposed
of by an order dated 22.09.2010 passed by a learned Single Judge of this
Court, permitting the appellant to file an appeal and to raise all contentions
before the Appeals Committee. Liberty was granted to the appellant to LPA No. 330/2013 Page 9 of 17 approach the Court again in the event the appellant was aggrieved by the
decision of the Appeals Committee. The learned single judge further
directed that "in the event an appeal was filed the same would be disposed
of expeditiously, preferably within a period of 3 months from the date of
filing of the appeal". 13. The appellant filed an appeal under the GSCASH Rules on
03.08.2010 which was considered by the Appeals Committee as constituted
by the Vice Chancellor of the respondent no. 1 university. The Appeals
Committee considered the entire matter and also separately met with the
appellant and the complainant. The Appeals Committee after examining
the matter concluded that the penalty of compulsory retirement without any
reduction in financial benefits was adequate. A copy of the report dated
29.11.2010 of the Appeals Committee was forwarded to the Vice
Chancellor who accepted the same in his capacity as the Chairman of the
Executive Council. A memorandum dated 15.12.2010 along with a copy of
the report of the Appeals Committee was forwarded to the appellant. The
said memorandum reads as under: 14. Aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Committee, the appellant
preferred yet another writ petition being W.P.(C) No. 62/2011. It was LPA No. 330/2013 Page 11 of 17 contended on behalf of the appellant that the acceptance of the report of the
Appeals Committee by the Vice Chancellor is bad in law as the
recommendations of the Appeals Committee are to be placed before the
Executive Council as per Rule X(3)(iv) of the GSCASH Rules which reads
as under: 15. The contention of the appellant that Rule X(3)(iv) of the GSCASH
Rules had been violated was accepted by a learned single judge of this
court and the writ petition being W.P.(C) no. 62/2011 was disposed of by
an order dated 06.01.2011, the operative part of which, reads as under: 16. In compliance with the directions issued in W.P.(C) 62/2011, the
recommendations of the Appeals Committee, disposing of the appeal filed
by the appellant against the penalty imposed on him by the memorandum
dated 29.07.2010, was placed before the Executive Council of the
respondent no. 1 university. The Executive Council considered the same at
a meeting held on 05.04.2011 and passed the following resolution: 17. Aggrieved by the rejection of his appeal, the appellant preferred the
writ petition being W.P.(C) 2541/2011 which has been dismissed by the
order dated 13.03.2013 impugned in the present appeal. 18. It is contended before us that there is no evidence to hold the
appellant guilty of the charges levelled against him. In particular, the
learned counsel appearing for the appellant has contended that the emails
alleged to have been sent by the appellant, have not been produced as the
same are stated to have been deleted. The appellant has also drawn our
attention to the report obtained by the Cyber Cell of Delhi Police, which
indicates that the appellant did not access his email account on
11/12.04.2008 i.e. the dates on which the alleged offending emails to the
complainant were alleged to have been sent. 19. We are unable to accept the contention urged on behalf of the
appellant that there is no material or evidence against the appellant in
respect of the charges levelled against him. The Enquiry Committee had LPA No. 330/2013 Page 13 of 17 examined 8 witnesses and after considering the evidence available and the
depositions received, the Enquiry Committee was satisfied that the
appellant was guilty of the charges levelled against him. In our view, there
is sufficient material to indicate that the appellant had been intimidating
respondent no. 5 and had used vulgar gestures. It is also an admitted case
that the appellant had made telephone calls to respondent no. 5 and
respondent no. 5 had given her evidence that appellant had used derogatory
language during those calls. Thus, even if the emails which are alleged to
have been sent by the appellant in April 2008 are ignored, there is
sufficient material available on record to find the appellant guilty of sexual
harassment. Even, in respect of the emails alleged to have been sent in
April 2008, the complainant has given evidence with regard to the same
and this is not a case where evidence with regard to the said emails is
completely absent. A Constitution Bench of Supreme Court, in the case of Union of India v. H.C. Goel : AIR 1964 SC 364, has held as under: 20. In proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the
court is not required to re-appreciate the evidence on the basis of which
finding have been returned in a domestic disciplinary proceeding. Thus,
the evidence on the basis of which the Enquiry Committee has found the
appellant guilty cannot be re-appreciated in these proceedings. We are not
called upon to re-examine the material considered by the Enquiry
Committee and the Appeals Committee as all that we are required to
examine is whether there was any material on the basis of which the
Enquiry Committee could have come to a conclusion that the appellant was
guilty of harassing respondent no.5 and whether the required procedure was
followed. 21. The respondent no. 1 university has followed the GSCASH Rules
which are in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court
in the case of Vishakha v. State of Rajasthan (supra). Although, the
identities of the witnesses have been concealed in accordance with the
GSCASH Rules, nonetheless a copy of their depositions was made
available to the appellant and the appellant was given due opportunity to
submit questions to the witnesses. The appellant was also given full
opportunity to lead evidence in his defence. In the circumstances, the
appellant has been afforded adequate opportunity to contest the charges
levelled against him and we do not find any error in the decision making
process. 22. We are in agreement with the view of the learned Single Judge that
there is no perversity in the findings arrived at by the Enquiry Committee LPA No. 330/2013 Page 15 of 17 and the Appeals Committee and, thus, we find no ground to interfere with
the penalty imposed on the appellant. 23. The second contention raised on behalf of the appellant is that the
Registrar was not authorised to impose the penalty on the appellant. This
contention is also without merit. Rule VII (i) provides for the report of the
Enquiry Committee to be forwarded to the Vice Chancellor for
consideration of the appropriate university authorities. The memorandum
dated 29.07.2010 issued by the Registrar indicates that the report of the
Enquiry Committee dated 19.02.2010 was submitted by the GSCASH
Committee to the Vice-Chancellor of the respondent no. 1 university and
he had accepted the same. The report of GSCASH Committee having been
accepted by the Vice Chancellor, the procedure of Rule VII of the
GSCASH Rules has been indisputably complied with. In the present case,
the appellant had also preferred an appeal and the report of the Appeals
Committee was also accepted by the Vice Chancellor in his capacity as the
Chairman of the Executive Council and subsequently by the Executive
Council of the respondent no. 1 university at its meeting held on
05.04.2011. It is, thus, indisputable that the penalty imposed on the
appellant has been approved by the Vice-Chancellor as well as the
Executive Council of the respondent no.1 university. The Registrar of the
respondent no. 1 is a "university functionary" as per Rule III(ix) of the
GSCASH Rules and there is no infirmity in his acting on behalf of the
university for the purposes of the Disciplinary Proceedings. In any view of
the matter, the grievance that the penalty has been imposed by the Registrar
and not the Vice-Chancellor of the university does not survive as the LPA No. 330/2013 Page 16 of 17 decision to impose the major penalty has been affirmed by the Appeals
Committee which has the approval of not only the Vice-Chancellor, but
also of the Executive Council of the respondent no. 1 university. 24. We find no merits in the present appeal and the same is dismissed
without any order as to costs. VIBHU BAKHRU, J

 BADAR DURREZ AHMED, ACJ

AUGUST 23, 2013
RK/MK LPA No. 330/2013 Page 17 of 17