SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Narsimha Rao was the most corrupt Indian Prime Minister
DATE: 2020-07-17
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/hsi47p/narsimha_rao_was_the_most_corrupt_indian_prime/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am writing this post because I am noticing a certain historical revisionism, aimed at rehabilitating the late Congress PM Narsimha Rao as some kind of noteworthy person. As someone who lived through his tenure as PM, I can tell you that was not the case.

To start with, how did Narsimha Rao become PM? Not by contesting the elections. He was manoeuvred into place following the assassination of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, and he tenaciously clung onto power in the absence of competitors. Remember that Sonia Gandhi was too rattled by the event to consider even taking a political role back then. Later, Sonia Gandhi would be duped into supporting Rao because he was supposed to resign at any time ( he never did). 

Well anyway, we are told that his brilliant reforms increased the GDP of India. All he did was "open up" the protected Indian economy to foreign interests. Earlier leaders were very cautious about this because in the past, foreign companies managed to colonize and conquer India. Which is why the leaders at the time of independence, focused so much on the development of local industry. 

Were his "reforms" indeed even his, or was he merely the front of some secret committee? He was often described as a sneaky fox, although we may never know who influenced him. It was definitely not the Congress or Congress ideology. He did his best to prevent a comeback of the Nehru family. He enabled the demolition of Babri Mosque by a mob by secretly ordering the police to stand down (A previous PM VP Singh did a lathi charge on the same mob). The riots that followed (in which he quietly refused to intervene) was the most severe communalization of Indian society since the Partition.

But what is more perplexing are some of the little known decisions he made, which can only point in the direction of an unknown "commitee," definitely not aligned with national interests. While India would isolate itself from all of its strategic SAARC neighbours, he initiated a strange rapprochement with Iran, even giving Iran the rare privilege to open extra consulates in Lucknow and Hyderabad (It is a known fact that Iran interferes in Muslim affairs everywhere). The fruit of this rapprochement is the price India is currently paying, being kicked out of its own port project in Iran. 

Then there is his hideous personal corruption, even while in office. 

1. Stock market scammer Harshad Mehta alleged he had paid a 1 crore bribe to Rao.
2. Rao had recieved 3.5 crore in the Hawala scam involving the Jain brothers.
3. A US NRI Lakhubai Pathak filed charges against Rao (WHILE HE WAS IN OFFICE!) alleging that Rao had cheated him of $100,000 by failing to offer him a government contract. Rao was acquitted after a lengthy legal battle.

But this one takes the prize. To [quote](https://www.dailyo.in/politics/pv-narasimha-rao-babri-masjid-hawala-scam-harshad-mehta-congress-sonia-gandhi/story/1/11444.html),

&gt;In March 1996, Rao was charged of hobnobbing with Chandraswami to forge documents to show VP Singh as the main beneficiary of a secret bank account of $21 million held in St Kitts. In October 1996, he was arrested at his residence by the CBI and later released on bail. This was the first time in India's political history that an incumbent or a former prime minister was arrested on criminal charges. He was later acquitted in December 1999. 

So here we have a Prime Minister collaborating with a conman to frame a former Prime Minister known for his uprightness. Does it get any more sleazy than that? 

There's even more, but these cases are anecdotal.

An acquaintance claims he visited the Office of Rao when he was PM, and after touching his feet, left the premises, leaving behind a suitcase containing 2 crore Rupees. The acquaintance was was facing some regulatory issues in his meat-export business!

Rao's good-for-nothing sons also helped themselves to several ministerial portfolios in Andhra Pradesh. A famous school in that region decided to invite one of these minister-sons to their annual day. The Minister sent back the inviting party, requesting that they send teenage girls instead! The school declined, because they did not want to take any liability.