Mr. Jitendra Chaudhary, Advocate for
 the petitioner. Mr. J.S. Bisht, Standing Counsel for
 the State. Heard. Admit. Learned C.S.C. takes notice for the
 respondent nos. 1 to 5. Issue notice to the respondent no.6
 returnable within four weeks. Steps to be taken within a week.
 List this matter for final hearing on
 13.10.2023. Heard on Stay Application IA No.1 of
 2023. It is the case of the petitioner that he
 never applied for allotment of any liquor
 shop. On 01.10.2022, suddenly, when the
 Excise Inspector Kashipur approached him,
 and served a notice upon the wife of the
 petitioner, it is, thereafter, that the
 petitioner came to know that someone is
 running a liquor shop in Mahuwakheda
 Ganj Nagar, Panchayat Tehsil Kashipur,
 District Udham Singh Nagar, in the name of
 the petitioner. On further query, it was
 revealed that, in fact, the respondent no.6
 had obtained liquor license from the Excise
 Department in the name of the petitioner,
 by misusing the documents, like AADHAAR
 card, PAN card, permanent residence
 certificate, etc. of the petitioner, which the
 petitioner had given to him so as to secure
a private job in SIDCUL, Rudrapur. Learned counsel for the petitioner
would submit that the petitioner had never
applied for any such license. He does not
know anything about it. He had given his
documents to the respondent no.6 under
the assurance that the petitioner might get
some private job in SIDCUL, Rudrapur. The Court on 26.07.2023 sought
instructions on certain points from the
learned State Counsel, which are as
follows:- Detailed instructions have been
placed for the perusal of the Court. It
reveals that, in fact, for allotment, a Draft
was given, which was issued from the
account of Bhumi Traders, Holy Chowk,
Rudrapur. According to the instructions,
the petitioner did give a declaration as well
 as an affidavit, certified by the notary.
When the revenue was not deposited, he
was given multiple notices, which he never
replied. It is also the case of the respondent
that the entire procedure for allotment of
liquor shop is done On-Line, for which each
applicant has to procure his digital
signature certificate, which is a rigorous
procedure. The petitioner did obtain his
digital signature certificate, and, thereafter,
applied for it. The instructions given by learned
State Counsel are taken on record. Having considered, this Court does
not see any reason to grant any interim
relief. Stay application is rejected,
accordingly. (Ravindra Maithani J.)
 28.07.2023
RV