I was forwarded with the first credit card statement from SBI credit cards dated the 16th of Nov 2017 which was received by me on the 23rd Nov 2017. The details of which are as follows: Opening Balance: 9063.46 Fees, taxes and Charges and charges: 953.82. I observed the discrepancy of the fault in the billing and immediately responded by calling up the CUSTOMER CARE center wherein I was informed to raise a complaint using the email to priority.[protected]@SBI.com. I sent the mail dated 23rd Nov 2017 to priority.[protected]@SBI.com, along with the bill as attachment but it was never delivered due to the recipient server did not accept requests to connect. I continued sending mail to customer.[protected]@SBI.com, priority.[protected]@SBI.com but to no avail. Finally I had to direct the mail to [protected]@SBIcard.com on the 25th Nov 2017. There was an ominous silence from SBI Credit Card Department’s end for the scheduled 3 days within which their department was due to revert back to me, on which I once again resent the mail on the 28th of Nov 2017. On the 29th of Nov 2017, one Miss Jaspreet Kaur from Customer Service Head Team – SBI Cards replied to my mail by saying that: we are unable to identify your account on our records as the card or account number is not mentioned in your communication and asked me to Please share the below mentioned details for further action. * Pan Card Number *Registered Mobile Number *Complete card or account number For which then I sent them the snapshot of the card. There was once again an ominous silence from SBI Credit Card Department’s end till 9th of Dec 2017 when I received the first mail from their end and finally on the 11th of Dec 2017 Mr. Deepak Dhawan from the Priority Servicing Team SBI Card sent me the mail with all the details It was when I browsed through the mail I became aware that the disputed transaction was carried out with a company called Jimmywalls enterprises. The entire body of the mail dealt with the high end secure environment, enhanced multiple levels of security. It was more of an attempt at diverting the onus of the entire transaction to me. The only thing that SBI credit cards possessed with them was that the dynamic OTP was delivered at my registered mobile number and no change in the contact details has been identified. SMS communications regarding the aforesaid transactions were also delivered at my registered mobile number. OTP: Publish Date		Mobile No		Delivery Status		Delivery Time		Sender ID		# of SMS		Request ID	Transaction ID 9/2/2017 15:40,[protected]		Delivered		9/2/2017 15:40		SBICRD		1, [protected], [protected] Message ID	Message Tag	Message	Operator	Circle 1.12E+10	null	Rs.8, 001.00 was spent on your SBI Card no. ending XX6140 at JIMMIWALLS ENTERPRISES on 2 Sep 17. Remaining credit limit: Rs.91, 999.00. Vodafone	Mumbai Transaction SMS: IP Address: Card Number Date / Time Merchant Name Country Currency Amount IP, [protected]		[protected]:09:48 AM PST		JIMMIWALLS ENTERPRISES		India		INR		8001		112.110.99.233 Their stance was : We wish to share that we at SBI Card or our vendors, do not solicit from the customer the key information pertaining to SBI Card e.g. CVV No., One Time Password etc. under any circumstances. Further, as a proactive measure to create fraud awareness amongst our esteemed cardholders specially to counter such unauthorized calls we leverage all communication modes e.g. mobile phone, email, card statement, our website and the social media as well to reach out to our customers and educating them on Dos & Don’ts especially advising them to not share the crucial information on SBI Card. We would like to share with you that as on date Rs. 10, 902.28 is payable on your SBI card account. Considering the aforesaid facts, the liability of the said transaction lies with you, however you may take up the matter with law enforcement agencies directly basis the available details. Till this point of time I was blissfully unaware that such a company existed and such a transaction had taken place. It was simply because when there was a telephonic conversation which took place on the date suggested with the alleged hoax company, True caller installed on my mobile phone identified the caller as SBI Credit cards. The entire conversation veered on getting my Credit Card activated as I had still not received the PIN number. There was no reason for me to doubt the credentials of the caller as he called up with full knowledge of the credit card details held by me from SBI. The hoax caller confirmed all the necessary evidence required for verification. In fact when I gave a few wrong inputs, the caller corrected me A couple of things came to my mind which I list as follows as queries: 1.	Whilst the transaction was carried out on the 2nd of Sept 2017 why was I sent the first statement on the 16th of November along with the penalties instead of in the month of October? 2.	Although SBI Credit Card Department were quick enough to enlighten me with the so called enhanced multiple levels of security incorporated from their end I reiterated that I have not supplied the caller with any OTP which I never received in my Mobile phone and that their claim that they have sent me the OTP to my registered contact number is false.. Also the message that the transaction having been executed never came to my registered mobile no., although they categorically said that the SMS to that effect has been sent to my mobile no. Otherwise I would have raised my concerns with immediate effect. 3.	Why did it take so long for me to reach SBI Credit Card Department to address my concern? 4.	If SBI Credit Card Department say that inability to identify my account on your records was the reason, how is it that a hoax company i.e. Jimmywalls Enterprises had all my details readily available at their disposal when they had performed the transaction with me under the garb of SBI Credit cards as identified by true caller installed in my mobile. 5.	I was not advised by either the CUSTOMER CARE or SBI Credit Card to raise a dispute form to address this issue. One of my friends suggested me to do so and hence I filled in a transaction dispute form as a legal document towards settling this issue favorably and not harassing me any further by immediately quashing the disputed amount and abstain from adding any additional penalties. 6.	What prevents me from accusing SBI Credit Card Department of collusion with Jimmy Walls enterprises as, I conducted a search on Google for Jimmywalls enterprises and realized a couple of things: a.	I was not the only person who has been conned as I identified that three more people Mr. Siddik M., Mr. Siva D and Mr. Mr. Kapil Gaur who have fallen victim to the con game. This was evident only because the three gentlemen had raised a complaint with WWW.CONSUMERCOMPLAINTS.in . I am sure that there will be more but for want of having raised the issue it has not surfaced. b.	In both cases Jimmy walls enterprises conned only SBI Credit card holders and the modus operandi was the same. (identifying themselves as SBI Credit Card, possessing all the vital information, poaching on credit cards which have not been registered or for which the PIN has not been sent). In some cases the victim did receive intimation of the transaction as well as the OTP. But then again, the onus has been transferred to the victim c.	I in fact feel that there is someone on SBI Credit Card Department’s end providing such hoax companies with insider information as result of which such incidences take place. I sent in a detailed mail on 13th of January 2018 highlighting all the information that I have furnished as above to Mr. Deepak Dhawan. Having said this I have in my first mail on 16th of Nov2017 requested for immediate cancellation of the along with a confirmed execution of my request After this there was a telephonic conversation with him on the 2nd of March, 2018, where in he continued harping only on one point that the OTP was sent to my Mobile number and that I had shared the OTP and that since SBI cards were not able to recover the money from the merchant the onus of payment falls on me. He continued to say the the matter was settled and no longer a dispute. It was then that I insisted that the matter continues to be disputed till all the queries that I had raised via my email be satisfactorily resolved and till such an end is not reached no additional penalties be levied upon the disputed amount. I sent in a Mail on the 7th of March following the telephonic conversation and a reminder on the 16th Of March 2018, the details of which are as follows: My dear Deepak Dhawan, In continuation to the telephonic conversation that we had on the 2nd of March 2018, I am herewith taking this opportunity to remind you that you had promised to revert back to me with Clarifications to my queries within 24 hours. I would now like to bring to your kind attention that: 1.	In spite of my insistence that you provide me with clarifications on all the points that I had raised vide mail sent on 13/1/2018, I am yet to receive any kind of clarifications, in the absence of which I reiterate that the interaction continues to be disputed. A mere statement from your end saying that the dispute is closed is not acceptable as you have been conveniently avoiding responding to my queries. 2.	Having said that I insist that you are not going to be levying any more penalties on the disputed amount. 3.	To enlighten you further, the Jimmywalls/ SBI scam has got one more victim, One Mr. Kapil Gaur thus raising the total to 4 including me, wherein the modus operandi continues to be the same and only SBI Cards are targeted. ( courtesy Google and Indian CONSUMER COMPLAINTS FORUM) 4.	Your reactions to all my queries are more of a knee ### where in you keep on harping on only one point and that is sharing of OTP with the Merchant site. 5.	I in fact allege that there is a strong collusion between Jimmy Walls and SBI cards and even go the extent of accusing you of sharing insider information with such fraudulent operators. I now shift the onus on you to vindicate yourself and wish to inform you that if I do not receive clarifications for all the queries raised by me vide my email dated 13/1/2018 I will be approaching the consumer courts against SBI cards and not Jimmy Walls enterprises as I find you to be eluding my queries and constantly harassing me with repeated monthly statements with add-on penalties. regards, N.R.Venkatkrishnan There has been no response from SBI Credit Card to the above mail although they keep harassing me by sending me monthly statements with additional penalties levied causing me a great deal of mental trauma. I am surprised at how swiftly and conveniently SBI Credit Card have shifted the onus of this incident on the victims instead of nailing down the hoax companies. I am sure SBI Credit Card’s reputation has and will continue to take a severe beating unless they are sympathetic to the victim rather than to the hoax company. I am also surprised at how SBI Credit Card have passed on the responsibility of pursuing the legalities of taking up the matter with the law enforcement agencies instead o[censored]sing their good offices and huge resources available at your disposal to help the hapless victims. The victims are now in a catch22 situation having not received any services for the money that is being charged to them and the trauma of being hounded by SBI for no fault of theirs. I also have noticed that in spite of having registered my interaction with SBI Credit Card after a great deal of efforts, they have been casual enough to send me credit card statement for the subsequent months with added penalties which has as of now magnified to 15353 INR as of 16th March 2018 and still counting. I now hereby state that this is a disputed bill, for which I have raised my concerns and maintain that no additional charges on the disputed amount be levied till the dispute is settled. To end this matter amicably I would like SBI Credit Card to maintain a sympathetic stance with me and forego the disputed amount and initiate a more stringent action against the wrongdoers rather than further victimizing the victims.