SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Father(60) almost got scammed by fake UP police
DATE: 2024-05-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cq3l3a/father60_almost_got_scammed_by_fake_up_police/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dad got a call from customer service saying a number was registered using his Aadhar card in lucknow which was used in fraudulent activities. They asked him to register a complaint because the laundering amount in in crores. Then someone from UP police video called my father on whatsapp.

First the call started very normally with him registering the complaint. He had worn police uniform and there was walkie talkie noise in the background.

He asked the fraudlent number and asked his subordinate to verify and 5 mins later the subordinate said this number is used to open fake bank accounts in my fathers name in which money is laundered. The intensity slowly started increasing and levelled serious accusations saying that the number that was used to open three bank accounts, had helped to launder 800 CR in the Nawab Malik case, jailed politician.

They started drafting an arrest warrant in the case and started saying that my father will be jailed for 18 years and will be fined 20 lakhs if even a single rupee of black money is found. 

Supposed inspector transferred the call to DGP who further increased his voice to the point where my 60 year old father BP shot up and he broke down. 

They then sent the photo of nawab malik and the cash and asked to confirm if my father has seen him. All this was being done with people in police uniforms, later they turned off their videos. They also sent a photo of police warrant and made his read it loudly on call.

This went on for at least 90 minutes and they threatened CBI and ED enquiries also said how it’ll be bad for his image when they will come to our house. They asked him about his bank account names, his investments in fds and stock market also his savings balance. They asked his credit card limit as well and said all his assets will be taken away. At this point, my senior citizen father, started crying more.

Then at one point they saw me in the room and asked me to leave or the arrest warrant will be signed and dad will be jailed. At this point I had a suspicion. Then i waited outside and heard him say to father that he should transfer his entire account savings/holdings into an RBI account where everything will be verified and will be returned to him if it’s clean. I jumped in the room and asked the DGP to turn on camera and show police station. He paused for a moment, I pressed on, then abused me and disconnected the call and deleted the arrest warrant and other photos. The number was then blocked.

They have his aadhar card. I deleted it from the chat. What precautions can I take now?