SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: WTF is Demonetisation - Part III
DATE: 2016-12-01
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fxbub/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_iii/

--- POST TEXT ---

Final Part

There's lot of talks now about Cashless Economy. In TV debates the ones supporting BJP are showing their mobile phones and saying 'this is your money going forward'.

So far, in the last 2 parts, we've seen how black money is generated in cash economy. Global Financial Integrity (GFI) in its report on how much illegal money has been stashed in banks worldwide, says Politicians 3%, Drug money 33%, rest 64% are corporates and crony capitalists!

So the reason why they are forcing everyone to go into banks? We should look into it more seriously. This call for bringing everyone into the banking infrastructure is not the brainchild of Modi - this was floated during UPA rule - they said we'll open bank accounts for everyone and then credit your subsidies into your bank account.

There was considerable opposition to such a move and they couldn't get it passed. In 2014, Modi came into power and realized he couldn't pass it through the same way and cunningly said I'm going to abolish financial insecurity and enable even the poor to have a bank account. He enticed everyone by saying anyone who opens account will get Rs.5000 loan.

Then he says if you want subsidy, you can get it only if you have a bank account. Next it is going to be extended to PDS - ration cards as well. They say 23 Crore bank accounts have been opened. But reports have come out saying those are fraud - many created by bank officials themselves - it has been exposed as dead accounts and not used extensively.

They are giving newspaper ads saying 'you can buy even flowers &amp; vegetables from roadside vendor lady using app on your phone' So please learn how to use this with detailed full page diagrams.

We all know PayTM gave full page ad with Modi's prominent picture. Why are people being pushed into using this? A lot many people are outside this credit / cahless economy and depend on cash economy, as we've seen in the previous post. So they are unable to give any other justification to bring them in - so they keep saying 'cashless will eradicate black money completely'. Some gullible people here believe it too!

But how will cashless remove corruption or black money? They explain, 'see if every transaction is made through cash, how will RTO demand cash?' They think they've stumped people questioning them. But you don't have to worry about how RTO will demand cash. They will improvise!

Just in these ~25 days, haven't we seen how the small fry with loads of cash improvised and got their illegal stash washed into pure white money - by various nefarious means?

Election Commission famously came out with strict measures to curb 'cash for votes' - but was it successful? The political parties went the route of 'token system' and duped the EC! Just the same way, new nefarious means will be devised by all these departments. 

The question about how RTO gets bribe is wrong. Where should it be monitored? Adani wants these bribes - in the last post we saw how these Adani's &amp; Ambani's need Ministers in those states to do their illegal business! 

So the corporate crony capitalists need these bribes to go on for the smooth functioning of their illegal businesses'. So the govt has to work for them. 

We saw up above how only 3% is of the politicians and 64% is of the crony capitalists. So if this 64% of black money needs to be safe and continue to grow, the 3% should be guaranteed by the crony capitalists. Now do you get the picture?

There is no greater foolishness than thinking once we swipe cards all illegal money will vanish into thin air. Why is there a need to bring all the money into the banking system? Arun Jaitlee explains 'My goal is to make majority people pay tax'. Are the majority of people not paying tax? We all pay hidden taxes. The new rule that tries to bring all taxation under one umbrella, the GST, has highest 28%. Above that they'll get education cess, swachh bharat cess etc etc. In addition the middle class people, pay direct tax (IT) so they pay 30-40%

How much do the business owners pay tax? The maximum they pay is 30% direct tax. It is one of the lowest direct taxation among all countries in the world. 

When you look at Privatisation of economy starting from 1994 until now, if we check who's taxation has been reduced and who's has been increased, we can see the common man's taxes have been systematically increased YOY. But in the same timeline the taxation of corporates and crony capitalists have been reduced.

In India we have had the time of 'Super Tax' - Very rich business owners / corporates had to pay 80% to 90% tax! But it has been reduced again and again and finally now max they pay is 30%.

The 2 reasons given for the tax reduction for corporates/crony capitalists:

- The justification that only if the corporates/crony capitalists are levied low taxes, they'll invest in India and thereby give jobs.

- Because you levy 60,70,80,90%, the corporates crony capitalists try to evade taxes. So the lesser the tax, the more willing they'll be to pay taxes!

According to reports from eminent economists, we can see that each year about 5 Lakh Crores has been reduced for these corporates, finally it has reached this 30%. So after such tax reduction shouldn't the black money be brought down? But contrarily, it has exponentially increased is what the reports say!

How do we see this tax reduction? When they say no we cant pay 70% or 80%, the govt said ok we'll make it 60% - now pay it please. So the govt has essentially said ok we'll not look at this part of your black money pay for the rest of it! So its not just tax reduction but acceptance of their black money by the govt!

Certain taxes have been completely abolished like capital gains tax, wealth tax etc. So when these crony capitalists say no we can't pay huge taxes, the govt has essentially fell at their feet saying ok we won't look at your other part if you pay 60%, 50%, 40% ..ok now only 30%

Even if the taxes are brought down to 0% they won't be satisfied! For eg Nokia made huge prfits much bigger than the capital they invested in Chennai, but when they were asked for 22,000 Crore as tax, they just shut shop and went home! This is the approach these corporates have towards paying taxes!

When ordinary people are asked, 'why do you pay tax', they say its because only then the govt will be able to lay roads, bring electricity, water, education, hospitality etc. This is their understanding. But are these things happening effectively? The answer is a big NO!

Why do the corporates pay taxes? So they get benefits like free electricity, roads, infrastructure, loans etc. This is not enough - govt has to protect their property and money and business. If there is any trouble from their employees etc, the govt has to provide protection for them.

In the last 20 years, many subsidies have been extended for these corporates. Free Land, Free electricity, free water, Free loans at reduced rates, establish markets for their goods products here and abroad. So they don't have to work - they are carried on the shoulders of the govt! 

At the same time for the common man, there are no decent govt schools, no decent govt hospitals, instead of road tax its all toll gates now, all services have become such that we get quality stuff only if we have money. If you even have a road roko demanding water, the police are sent to tackle the situation. The taxes are not used for services of common man!

So the govt will be pro corporates/Crony capitalists but their salary comes from the taxes levied on the common man!

Modi govt policy of taxation is making the Tax bracket wider but not deeper. What is deeper? The big fat cats, the corporates and crony capitalists are taxed more. What is wider? Making the common man and middle class forcibly pay taxes.

This is the reason why they want everyone to move from cash economy into cashless economy. If we move into cashless what are the benefits? 

They are talking as if the cash economy in itself is illegitimate, and only the cashless economy is legal. But as we've seen above only those are the tax evaders. so if the small, medium businessmen are taxed, what will happen? All their business transactions will come into govt purview. 

Not just that, now we have Aadhaar Card - Like no other card anywhere else in the world, with biometric info - which makes all citizens as criminals! It was brought in as an identity card. Now they are making it mandatory for gas connection, ration card, bank accounts and even education!

The next advertisement is bring all your transactions into your mobile. So who owns this? Ambani. He asks for your Aadhaar card. So all your transactions are visible to him!

All your transactions are under one network. Ambani &amp; the govt are already under a common network! Today Ambani has announced he supports Demonetisation, now can you understand why?

So each and every step of the common man will be under the monitoring of these corporates and the govt! All of the common man's activities will be controlled by them!

So there won't be any more expose' of the rich and mighty. They will be free to do what they want, however they please - the common as their guinea pig!

This is the real reason behind going cashless!

Edit:

[Part I](https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fiory/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_i/)

[Part II](https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fpo2v/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_ii/)