Shri Samdarshi Tiwari, learned Dy. Advocate General for
 the respondents/State. We appreciate the stand taken by the applicant
 APDMC that the applicant is committed to conducting
 transparent, free and fair examination. Keeping in mind the rival submissions and suggestions
 given on the previous date of hearing and also after
 perusing the name of the Agency who is likely to be
 entrusted with the Online Examination to be conducted for
 and on behalf of APDMC, in our considered opinion, it may
 be appropriate to provide for dispensation which may
 assuage the concern of all the stakeholders and also instill
 credibility and confidence in the entire process of online
 examination. The measures to be adopted as indicated hereinafter
are not only regarding the minimum technical compliance
to be fulfilled by the concerned Agency but also about the
logistical compliances to be done by the principal
(APDMC) and the monitoring agency (AFRC). We may
consider of issuing directions to provide for following
security measures :- The Database Administrator must be appointed from an
 independent agency such as NIC not below the rank of
 Scientist C.

A. Central Examination Server :- Owner of one server should not be able to access the second
 replica server. (6) A Monitor server should also be configured in same manner as 3 of examination server but to store monitoring data such as
 audio/video/images/biometric data collected from each
 examination centre. B. Examination server at each examination centre.
(1) Each Examination centre should have fingerprint reader at main
 gate so that only those examinees are allowed whose fingerprint is
 stored on Examination server in Examination centre. User
 biometric information (Fingerprint/face recognition) may be
 register at the time of enrollment/form filling through authorized
 centre or kiosk only. (2) Each examinee should be validated by his/her own credential (id
 and password) through the server. (3) Exam Hall must have auto generated encrypted code for paper. This auto generated code (id) must be distributed randomly. The
 first candidate who comes in exam room shall have first code,
 second shall get second code and likewise.
(4) The password of each user stored in the database should be in
 encrypted form. (5) As soon as the exam gets over and data is submitted to database on
 Examination server at each examination centre, immediately the
 DML (Data manipulation Language) get locked for the
 database so that the data could not be changed at any situation.
 (Database access time must be limited upto exam period only,
 whatever it may be 2 hrs or 3 hrs and after examination it must be
 blocked immediately and no command or deletion, addition,
 alteration shall be allowed. It is to ensure that the test is taken in a
 certain amount of time. Some automated testing programs allow
 this feature). The auto generated id is for the internal use only
 and not be opened to anyone except Examination In-charge having
 exclusive password.. (6) Each examination hall should have at least two CCTV cameras
 with audio recording facility to the monitoring server not less than
 5 Mhz frequency. The camera must have sufficient electricity back
 up through UPS, so that the movement and activity of Examinee
 can be recorded in case of power failure. This data should be
 uploaded to monitoring server on real time basis.
(7) The recording of desktop of each Examinee computer should also
 be uploaded to monitoring server on real time basis which in turn
 to be secured at the monitoring server contemporaneously.
(8) The local server installed at Examination Centre should be
 connected through VPN to the master server. The internet
 connectivity on the local server to be disconnected. No possibility 4 of hacking is possible in this configuration.
(9) The Examination Centre must have ISO 27001 certification.
(10) The Result be declared within prescribed time or within 15
 minutes. (11) The tentative answer keys for the objective type examinations
 should be hosted on the website of APDMA and AFRC
 immediately after the examination is over and candidates will be
 given days' time to file claims and objections, if any to the
 examination authority. (12) The same will be placed before the Experts committee of which
 Database Administrator from independent agency such as NIC is
 also a member for scrutiny and the corrected final answers be
 published on the website again. Candidates can self-evaluate their
 answers with answer keys. C. Measures to be taken at Examination Centre
(1) A firewall like software should be installed to each examinee
 computer. The task of this software is to remove vulnerabilities
 present in examinee computer. The tasks are listed as below:- By data available in central server and replica server.
 By seeing Desktop recording of particular examinee.
 By seeing CCTV video/audio recording of examination
 room. (2) As Examinee is being identified by biometric data
 (fingerprint and face or more) therefore only genuine
 examinee can attend the examination. It is also verified
 through examinee credentials." We are inclined to give some time to both the parties
 to examine the efficacy of the security measures indicated
 hitherto and to offer their counter proposal, if any, so that
 appropriate directions can be issued on the next date of
 hearing. We make it clear that if there is any issue about
 appointing Database Administrator by NIC, the parties may
 suggest any other independent agency (Government
 Undertaking) or even names of former Officers of such
 undertaking not below the rank of Scientist C in NIC or
 equally qualified. We accordingly, defer the matter till 03.08.2015 to be
 taken up at 10:30 AM.