SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Arranged Marriage, a Rant
DATE: 2020-12-01
SCORE: 114
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/k4ljid/arranged_marriage_a_rant/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know there are some who will come at me with 'But in pRoGrEsSiVe FaMiLiEs arranged marriages just mean that your family sets you up with someone and then lets you date'. Fair, that's genuinely great, but the vast majority of people in India right now and even plenty of Indians abroad do not come from backgrounds that could even remotely be described as 'progressive'. I am talking about everyone else, who are not quite as lucky. I make my case:

1. It encourages coloursim and viewing members of the opposite sex as objects and resources. The lighter-skinned a woman is, the more options she has- education, personality and other preferences be damned. The more money a man makes, the more options he has. Women are viewed as free house help that also has to look pretty and fuck her husband and risk her life having his babies while men are...literal banks. When you are choosing your spouse from an online catalog (matrimonial sites) the way you'd shop for furniture, you cannot take chemistry and personality into account.

2. It is a recipe for disaster in a culture that stigmatizes divorce. My parents met each other in person twice before their wedding. TWICE. 2 times. I would vet my fucking *roommates* better than this. Neither of them had any idea what they were in for and now they're stuck together and have been for 30 miserable years. I cannot recall a single time they were genuinely happy, nor have I seen a single happy couple in my family except for one- an aunt who was basically disowned for marrying a man of a different religion, and her husband.

3. It is sexually regressive. If I'm being real, anyone traditional enough to marry a stranger because their astrology charts match up is not going to be good at discussing sex. Does the man even know what a clitoris is? Does he care (likely not)? Do they have similar, or compatible views on porn, open relationships, cheating? Are the couple even aware sex should be pleasant and not painful? I know women who aren't even aware that it's not wrong for women to *feel horny*, let alone masturbate or have sex. This is traditional, 'typical', non upper-class Indian society.

4. It promotes insular societies. People will not marry outside their religion/caste/social class in arranged marriages. Why? They are either afraid of people different to them, or genuinely think they're inferior. I think that loving somebody, whether romantic or platonic, is the highest form of accepting their humanity. If you cannot accept that someone of your caste/religion/etc. loving someone of another is not a sin or transgression, then how non-discriminatory are you, really?

This is off the top of my head, but I have a lot more. I remember being 15 or 16 and crying in bed at night thinking I only had another decade (if lucky) to live before having to look the possibility of marrying a stranger and having to bear his babies in the eyes. 
I am never allowing that to happen to me, no matter how much I will be emotionally or financially blackmailed into it.