I faced fraud/ scam using qr code on olx platform. The numbers are being shared to third party unauthorized users to call directly and scam sellers. I have been victim of 30000.00/- I had posted ad to sell my furniture. There were few buyers interested and and few had requested my CONTACT number to discuss. However i got a call from unknown number immediately after posting the ad and offered to buy. Their were actually ready to pay the moment I lift the call but I said once come and see the product then decide they said no need of it we work in furniture business and will come next day with servants to take it . Next day the person spoke convincingly and requested for details to transfer the amount even though I asked liquid cash she said wouldn't happen half half amount can be given she then gave to her husband and He used his qr code to show that money can be received by using a small transaction (I.e., 5 rupees) by clicking to times which I received. When i entered a big amount of 5000.00 for two time scan and i lost 10000 he immediately said that transaction failed and to retry again. As my balance got nil he said their should be minimum 5000 so it's me who dont know about this qrcode procedure or method of accessing it I tried from my dad PAYTM account for 10000 rupess refund qrcode and again lost more 20000 By this time i got suspicious as the amount got deducted and realized i have been a victim of qr code scam. When i asked him to return back the money he refused to it kept his phn switched off for few minutes and also cut the call mANY TIMEs and when we tried to phone them with other number the man used abusive words to me which I really cant take up as a girl, so I immediately took an daring step to FIR the case through CYBER CRIME later When we opened the OLX app they mention not to do any transactions with them, but it was too late for them to inform as it didn't appear in an alert notification so I request OLX to please help me get through this situation as it is so traumatizing mentally and please help me get my money back. Their phone numbers are ( [protected]) and ([protected]) with names on OLX POOJA SHARMA but true caller shows DEEPAK SHARMA and mentioned her husband as SANDEEP SHARMA, this Sandeep ### really spoke very bad I would like to u take immediate action on them and get my money back please. I will also provide the photos of then from WhatsApp profile picture and also had the recording of talking ### to me Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)