Update on April 7, 2023:

In response to a question raised in the Parliament session on April 6, 2023, the Ministry of Law and Justice said that names of voters whose voter ID is not linked with Aadhaar will not be struck off from the voter list. Rajya Sabha member Syed Nasir Hussain had enquired about the status of Aadhaar-voter ID linkage in the country and whether or not it’s a voluntary exercise. Citing the Election Commission of India, the Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju stated, “The submission of Aadhaar number with Voter ID is voluntary and consent is obtained from the electors for Aadhaar in Form 6 B”.

Interestingly, when asked about targets or timelines set by the government for Aadhaar-Voter ID linkage, the Minister stated that there are no targets or timelines, but also highlighted that the time period to submit Aadhaar has been extended for a period up to March 31, 2024. If that’s not a deadline, then what is?

Originally posted on March 23, 2023:

The Indian government has extended the deadline for citizens to link their Aadhaar number and Voter ID to March 31, 2024, from April 1, 2023, as per a notification by the Ministry of Law and Justice dated March 21, 2023. The order comes in even though linking the proofs of identity is voluntary as directed by the Election Commission of India (ECI).

Centre extends the deadline for linking Aadhaar number with voter ID to March 31, 2024 from April 1, 2023. #Aadhaar pic.twitter.com/YRDseimiPp

— Live Law (@LiveLawIndia) March 22, 2023

“In the said notification, for the words and figures, “the 1 st April 2023”, the words and figures, “the 31 st March 2024, will be substituted,” reads the latest notice.

According to the above-mentioned notification, the government amended its order dated June 17, 2022, which notified that every person “whose name is included in the electoral roll may intimate his Aadhaar number” on or before April 1, 2023. Through the June 17 notification, the government had introduced an amendment to the Registration of Electors Rules, 1960, to add a provision for providing an Aadhaar number by existing electors through Form 6B.

What’s the issue?

The Election Commission of India (ECI), in its letter dated July 4, 2022, has made it clear that submission of Aadhaar is completely voluntary on the part of the electors. In case, an elector does not have an Aadhaar card and hence, is unable to furnish it, they can submit any of the 11 alternative documents mentioned in Form 6B. The ECI also added that no entries can be deleted from the electoral rolls on grounds of the inability of an elector to provide their Aadhaar number.

The Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) and many others on Twitter pointed out that setting deadlines for a voluntary exercise suggests that non-linking will lead to consequences. This, in turn, also suggests that people have to follow the order mandatorily.

. @ECISVEEP has clarified that linking Aadhaar & Voter ID is voluntary. It is unclear why a notified timeline for a voluntary exercise exists. Form 6B already undermines its voluntary nature as it appears to limit the option to those without Aadhaar. https://t.co/G7iGcIWQC1 https://t.co/d8CDg7fKEm pic.twitter.com/VULzX7GVkh

— Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) (@internetfreedom) March 22, 2023

Why it matters:

The exercise of linking Aadhaar and Voter ID has been gaining ground with special campaigns organised by the Election Commission of India to push people to link the two documents. In some instances, people have even resisted the move and questioned the benefits of such linkage. Despite ECI’s order stating that it’s a voluntary exercise, the Centre’s move to enforce deadlines will probably lead to confusion among citizens. It sets off a false alarm about the potential consequences of not linking the two before the government’s deadline.

Why Aadhaar-Voter ID linkage is worrisome?

The organisation ‘Rethink Aadhaar’ highlighted that Aadhaar is not proof of the right to vote . They also raised concerns about Aadhaar being misused for the deletion of electors’ names causing mass disenfranchisement. It was witnessed in the case of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, wherein nearly 55 lakh voters were left out of the electoral process in 2018 due to linkage of the Electoral Photo ID Card and Aadhaar.

Further, the move also poses the danger of Aadhaar data being misused for voter fraud . “Given widespread data quality issues in the Aadhaar database, this exercise would diminish the sanctity of records in the Voter ID database,” states Rethink Aadhaar. Congress Spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also challenged the constitutionality of the move to link Aadhaar and Voter ID in the Supreme Court. Though the petition was dismissed, it pointed out that the exercise will infringe upon people’s right to privacy, and violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India i.e. people’s right to equality. It also highlighted that the Supreme Court had “suspended ECI’s National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication (NERPAP) programme for collecting Aadhaar Numbers of electors”.

Also Read:

(The article was updated on April 7, 2023 at 10:50 am to add the latest news in the matter.)

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event