Whether the Reporters of local papers may
 be allowed to see the judgment ? YES 2. To be referred to Reporters or not ? YES 3. Whether the judgment should be reported
 in the Digest ? YES

RAJIV SHAKDHER, J

IA No. 12926/2009 (O. 39 R. 1&2 of CPC ) in CS(OS) 1889/2009
IA No. 13058/2009 (O. 39 R. 1&2 of CPC ) in CS(OS) 1906/2009 1. I propose to dispose of the captioned applications in the abovementioned suits being: 2. Coming to the applications: the plaintiff, which carries on its business under T

Series Brand of music cassettes, claims to be an owner of a large repertoire of musical

works. Therefore, by way of the captioned applications the plaintiff has sought an

injunction pending trial of the suit, against infringement of its copyright in musical works,

by the defendants. 2.1 Notably in the written statement filed, while there is no assertion by the defendants

that they have a copyright in the concerned musical works; they have, as is the usual

defence, put the plaintiffs to notice that they have to provide proof of their rights in the

repertoire of musical works they claim to possess. More importantly, a defence of

substantiality is also taken - in as much that the alleged takings of the plaintiff‟s musical

work does not constitute "substantial" takings, therefore, no case for infringement is made

out. Furthermore, it is stated that if the takings are construed as substantial, even then their

act cannot be construed as an infringement as they have made a "fair use" of the concerned

musical works. In other words, they have invoked the statutory defence of "fair dealing" as

provided in Section 52(1)(a)(ii) and Section 52(1)(b)(ii) of the Copyright Act, 1957

(hereinafter referred to as „ Copyright Act ‟) . 3. In this context let me advert to facts which, in my view, are necessary for the

purpose of disposal of the captioned applications. 3.1 The plaintiff, as noticed above, is engaged in the business of manufacturing and

marketing audio cassettes under the brand name "T Series Music Cassettes". The plaintiff

also asserts that it has a large repertoire of cinematographic films and sound recordings. It

claims that its repertoire of music includes collection of over 20,000 Hindi non-film songs

and around 50,000 songs in regional languages. The plaintiff also claims that it has

launched and/or promoted some of the biggest, and most talented as also well known artists

of the likes of Anuradha Paudwal, Sonu Nigam, Udit Narayan, Kumar Sanu, Abhjit, Manoj

Tiwari etc. In order to protect its rights the plaintiff asserts that it has acquired copyright of CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 2 of 32 literary, musical and other works, which it commissions and manages by entering into

contracts whereby, the copyright vested in the authors or other prior owners in the said

musical works is assigned to it. In its capacity as a purchaser, that is, sound recording

company, it claims to be a corporate author and the first owner of the copyright in the sound

recording and audio visual works (cinematograph films) which are produced at its initiative

and responsibility. The plaintiff also claims that it has executed licenses with various

broadcasters which use its work, in which, it enjoys copyright. The plaintiff further asserts

that in view of its entire business model being pivoted on the intellectual property right it

has acquired in the aforementioned works, it diligently monitors, infringement of its rights

by taking appropriate actions. It is towards this end that it has filed the present action.

3.2 In so far as the defendants are concerned it is, specifically, averred in the plaint that

defendant no. 1 through its channel Hamar TV, which is primarily dedicated to Bhojpuri

language caters to the demand for regional television market. Defendant no. 2, it is stated is

primarily engaged in the business of electronic media, and is thus successfully running news

and entertainment channels under the name of Positiv Media Group including Hamar TV. It

is alleged that in March, 2009 the plaintiffs came to know that the defendants were

broadcasting its copyrighted works without due permission. In this connection a meeting

was set up with one Ms Neelanjana, Deputy Managing Director of the defendants. At this

meeting the representative of the plaintiff stressed the need for the defendants to obtain a

license from the plaintiff if it was desirous of legitimizing its business; as otherwise

unauthorized broadcast of its copyrighted works violated its rights. The said meeting was

followed by a letter dated 04.03.2009 wherein, the fee payable by defendant no. 1 was

mentioned. Since defendant no. 1 continued to infringe the plaintiffs‟ copyright, a legal

notice dated 06.04.2009 was issued to defendant no. 1, by the plaintiff through its advocate,

calling upon defendant no. 1 to cease and desist broadcast of its copyrighted work, without

license. In the said legal notice reference was made to specific instances of infringement of

plaintiff‟s repertoire which had come to its notice, including programmes such as Naino

Ke Jadoo, Aarti Sung by Anuradha Paudwal and Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak. It appears

that defendant no. 1 replied to the said notice vide its reply dated 16.04.2009. In CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 3 of 32 reply, apart from denying the plaintiffs‟ allegation of infringement, defendant no.1

specifically stated that since its channel was on test trials from 12.03.2008 to 06.03.2009,

the contents of the plaintiffs‟ repertoire may have been used by it. Realising the enormity of

the problem at hand defendant no.1 on the same day also filed a caveat in the District Court

at Noida, U.P.

3.3 The plaintiff followed the aforementioned legal notice with a reminder dated

11.05.2009 wherein, it sought to clarify that the infringement in the previous notice were

actually for the period 24.03.2009 to 26.03.2009 and, therefore, much after the launch of its

channel by defendant no. 1; on 07.03.2009 which was the date indicated in its reply of

16.04.2009. The plaintiff has averred in the plaint that in order to take the investigation

further it deputed one of its employees, one Mr Deepak Kamlesh Pania. The affidavit of Mr

Deepak Kamlesh Pania dated 07.07.2009 adverts to the fact that defendant no. 1 has

infringed the plaintiffs‟ copyright in the concerned musical works between period

19.06.2009 to 22.06.2009. In the plaint it has been specifically averred that the defendant

continued to infringe the plaintiffs‟ copyright. To establish the same, compact discs (in

short „CD‟) containing the infringement for the period 19.06.2009 to 25.06.2009 have been

filed as a document in the present proceedings. 3.4 Based on the aforesaid facts the plaintiffs averred that there has been an infringement

of : and (iv) violation of its rights under Section 14(a)(iv) of the Copyright Act, in as much as the

 defendants‟ act of recording musical work owned by the plaintiff by other means

 before its broadcast. This last action according to the plaintiff tantamounted to CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 4 of 32 creation of a cinematograph film of the performance thereby, infringing the

 plaintiffs‟ exclusive rights in the musical works. SUIT NO. 1906/2009 4. In so far as this suit is concerned the pleadings are substantially same except for a

small variation. These being as follows: The allegation of violation against defendant no. 1

Positiv Television Pvt. Ltd., is that it is running various news and entertainment channels

under the name of Positiv Media Group including its own channel "Focus TV". Specific

instances of infringement are indicated in paragraph 24 of the plaint, which includes

programs such as E! Martini. This programme includes copyrighted works belonging to

plaintiffs‟ repertoire, from movies, such as Ghajini, Main Aisa Hi Hoon and Slumdog

Millionaire. 4.1 In rebuttal, defendant no. 1 in suit no. 1889/2009, i.e., Hamar TV has denied that

there is any infringement of copyright by defendant no. 1. In paragraph 9 of the written

statement under the heading Preliminary Objections and Submissions, it is stated that the

plaintiffs on their own showing have alleged that broadcast ranges between 10 to 30 seconds

except on a few occasions where the duration is more than 30 seconds. It goes on to aver

that it is clear from the allegations of the plaintiff that the maximum duration of broadcast is

40 seconds, that too not at a single stretch and, therefore, the alleged broadcast for duration

in the range of 10 to 40 seconds cannot be dubbed as indiscriminate use of copyright for

commercial exploitation. It relies upon the judgment of this Court in ESPN Star Sports vs

Global Broadcast News Ltd. & ors. 2008 (38) PTC 477 (Del) to invoke the test of "fair

dealing" to decide as to whether the alleged broadcast would amount to violation of the

copyright. In support of its defence based on the principle of „fair dealing‟ it relied upon the

provisions of Section 52(1)(a)(i) and (ii) to contend that the alleged broadcast are in the

nature of "review", "preview", "news", special programmes and interviews. These

programmes, according to defendant no. 1, are in the nature of criticism or review to educate

the viewing public. Reliance was also been placed on the judgments of the English Court in Hubbard and Anr vs Vosper & Anr. (1972) 1 All ER 10231. A challenge has been laid to

the competence of Mr Deepak Kamlesh Pania in regard to his education, qualification and CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 5 of 32 expertise to undertake a technical task of recording broadcast of a programme made by a

channel. It also averred that there is nothing on record to show that the alleged recording

by Mr Deepak Kamlesh Punia was not tampered with. While the receipt of the legal notice

and the reply dated 16.04.2009 is not denied; there are averments made explaining the

purported contents of the reply dated 16.04.2009. Similarly, there is no denial of the

reminder dated 11.05.2009 sent by the plaintiff. Defendant no. 1 has, however, denied the

veracity and the truthfulness of the contents of the CDs filed by the plaintiff purportedly

containing the record of infringement for the period 09.09.2009 and 15.09.2009. 5. In support of their respective cases both counsels made briefly following

submissions: Mr Sagar, appearing for the plaintiff submitted that the plaintiff has an

exclusive rights as copyright owner under Section 14 of the Copyright Act in respect of "any

work or any substantive part of the work". The defendants i.e., Hamar T.V. and Positiv

Television Network Pvt. Ltd. have been broadcasting copyrighted work of the plaintiff

without a licence and, therefore, defendants have violated the provisions of Section 51(a)(i) of the Copyright Act as also the provisions of Section 51(a)(ii) of the Copyright Act for

permitting the infringing broadcast. It was contended by Mr Sagar that the defence of "fair

dealing" under Section 52 was not available to the defendants as the same was not a defence

raised with bonafide intentions. He stressed the fact that the infringing broadcasts were

made on 24th, 25th and 26th March, 2009. In response to the plaintiff‟s legal notice of

06.04.2009, defendant no. 1/Hamar T.V., vide its reply dated 16.04.2009, had falsely

averred that they might have used the plaintiff‟s repertoire for its broadcast prior to the

formal launch of its channel. This defence was set up by stating that the channel of

defendant no. 1/Hamar T.V. was launched only on 07.03.2009. This was obviously a false

defence. Mr Sagar further contended that as is demonstrable from the CDs filed that

defendant no. 1/Hamar T.V. continued to infringe the plaintiff‟s copyrighted works. The

defence of fair dealing set up is vague and no specific instances have been given which

would bring it within the statutory exception of permitted use as engrafted in Section 52 of

the Copyright Act, that is, for the purposes of criticism, review or news reportage etc. For CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 6 of 32 this purpose he cited judgments of Sony BMG Music Entertainment et al vs Jeol

Tenenbaum Case No. 07cv11446-NG dated 07.12.2009. Mr Sagar went on to submit that

the provisions of the Copyright Act have to be read in consonance with and interpreted

consistently with binding international conventions. In this particular case the Berne

Convention and the TRIPS Agreement, to which India is a party would have to be

considered. It was contended by Mr Sagar that Article 13 of the TRIPS Agreement and Article 9.2 of the Berne Conventions provided for certain indices to deal with the defence of

„fair dealing‟ These being: 5.1 It was next contended that the infringing use cannot be justified by merely saying

that it does not „compete‟ with other uses like theatre exhibition, distribution of DVDs/CDs

etc.; and that licensing also forms part of normal exploitation. In other words, it was Mr

Sagar‟s contention that licensing of the plaintiffs‟ repertoire is part of normal exploitation of

its copyrighted works. Based on the aforesaid, it was submitted that the exceptions given in

the Copyright Act should not be so interpreted to upset the normal existing commercial

practices on which the plaintiff‟s revenue depend. 5.2 Mr Sagar next contended that the English decision ought to have a greater persuasive

value than the U.S. decisions as the provisions of Section 52(1)(a) and (b) of the Copyright CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 7 of 32 Act are similar to provisions of the English Act on the aspect of permitted or fair uses of

copyright work. 5.3 It was the submission of Mr Sagar that the test evolved for reporting "current events" 5.6 The learned counsel went on to say that the test of substantiality is a qualitative test

and not quantitative test. [See Ladbroke (Football) Ltd vs William Hill (Football) Ltd

(1964) 1 All. E.R.465 ]. It was his contention that the test of substantiality tests what part of

the plaintiffs work is taken, and therefore, the defendants cannot contend as part of their

defence, that the plaintiffs work comprises only a small part of the defendants‟ works. In so

far as musical work is concerned the substantiality test is one of recognition. Listeners

know a tune by a few notes. [See Hawkes and Son (London) Ltd. vs Paramount Film

Service Ltd. (1934) 1 Ch. 593; Donald Irwin Robertson vs Batten, Barton, Durstine &

Osborn Inc. et al 146 F. Supp. 795 and Baxter vs MCA Inc. 812 F.2d 421 (9th Cir. 1987)].

Similarly, in the case of cinematograph films even a single screen shot is substantial. (See Section 14(d)(i) of the Copyright Act). The test is of a cumulative effect. The defendants

use of plaintiff‟s repertoire daily in almost all programs is a relevant consideration. 6. The learned counsel for the defendants largely adhered to the stand taken in the

pleading. The principal defence was based on the provisions of Section 52(1)(a)(i) and (ii).

Considerable reliance was placed on the judgment of this court in ESPN Star Sports (supra)

case. In addition Mr Abhishek Kumar Rao cited the following judgments: CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 8 of 32 7. In the background of the above, it perhaps becomes important to draw up the

contours of the law on the subject. Hubbard and Anr vs Vosper and Anr (supra)

7.1 This was a case where plaintiff was the Church of Scientology which sought an

injunction against one Mr Vosper, who published a book with the title „The Mind Benders‟

which was critical of the cult of scientology. The book of Mr Vosper had extracts from the

books of Mr Hubbard on scientology, of course with acknowledgements. In the first

instance an ex-parte injunction was granted which was continued and confirmed. In appeal

the injunction was vacated. Lord Denning M.R. in his judgment while accepting the fact

that a substantial part of the book written by the plaintiff - Mr Hubbard was extracted in the

defendant‟s book „The Mind Benders‟, the defence of „fair dealing‟, however, in his view

was arguable and, therefore, on a balance injunction deserved to be vacated. There was a

fair amount of discussion on what would constitute „fair dealing‟ as also in what situation

information received in confidence would not be accorded protection of the law. On the

first issue the observations of Lord Denning M.R. being apposite are extracted hereinbelow" 7.2 Lord Denning also dealt with the issue as to whether right to criticize and review a

literary work could also bring within its ambit the right to criticize and review the

underlying doctrine or philosophy. Lord Denning observed in the following words: 7.3 The other issue pertaining as to what is protectable as confidential information, was

also dealt with by the learned Judge. The learned Judge even at the interlocutory stage held

that: from what was placed before the court demonstrated that, even though the information

was confidential, it ought not to be suppressed by Court intervention as there was an

element of public interest, which required that the activities of the cult which were alleged

to be dangerous had to be allowed unimpeded articulation. As to the factors which a court

should weigh when considering a plea for an injunction the learned Judge made the

following pertinent observations, and in doing so, disagreed with the earlier judgments

which seemed to suggest that for the plaintiff to seek injunction at an interlocutory stage he

has to do two things: First, he must establish a strong prima facie case that he "owns the

copyright" and, second, having done so he need only show that he had an "arguable case" Pro Sieben Media AG vs Carlton UK Television Ltd (supra)

7.4 The next case cited before me was again an English case. Briefly facts were that the

plaintiffs had broadcast a programe which included interview of a lady who was pregnant

with eight foetuses. This interview formed part of the plaintiff‟s programme TAFF. TAFF

programme was broadcast via satellite for German audience, however, it could also be

received in English households by having an appropriate satellite dish. The defendant

conceived and thereupon broadcast a programme entitled „selling babies‟ as part of their

programme „Big Story‟ which in the defendant‟s words was a programme dealing with

current affairs. The plaintiff filed an action for infringement of copyright primarily in

relation to use of thirty second excerpt by the defendants in their programme from plaintiff‟s

work, and also for taping the entire TAFF programme. The action was defended on the

ground that the entire programme was directed to criticize „chequebook journalism‟. The

Court of Appeal while vacating the injunction touched upon several important aspects: (i) a

Judge‟s conclusion on an issue of fair dealing ought not to be disturbed unless he proceeded

on some error of principle or were otherwise clearly unsustainable. (ii) that the extent of

review was relevant to the defence of fair dealing but its relevance would depend upon

circumstances of the case. (iii) criticism should not only be of the style but also of the idea

which are found in the work and its social and moral implications. (iv) The criticism could

be expressed strongly, and be unbalanced without forfeiting the fair dealing defence; and the CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 11 of 32 author‟s remedy for malicious and unjustified criticism lay in the law of defamation, if at all,

not copyright. (v) the mental element on the part of the user was of little importance.

However, the intention and motives of the user of another‟s copyright material were highly

relevant on the issue of fair dealing. A sincere but misguided belief that the user was

criticizing a work or reporting current events was not enough for the defence to be made out. (vi) A liberal view had to be taken of the expressions "criticism" or "review" and „reporting

current events‟. However, the nearer the user was to the original material, less likely was

there a chance of the user succeeding in his defence of „fair dealing‟. In determining the

actual purpose of the user in using and accessing copyright material weight had to be given

to the progammes likely to impact the audience. Hyde Park Residence Ltd. vs Yelland (supra)

7.5 This case was concerned with the publication of pictures in the daily The Sun of lady

Diana and Mr Dodi Fayed‟s visit to his home in Paris, i.e., Villa Windsor. The pictures

were obtained by the reporter of The Sun from an ex-employee of the plaintiff‟s company

Hyde park Residence Ltd. which was entrusted with the job of providing security at Villa

Windsor. The visit of Lady Diana and Dodi Fayed one day before the unfortunate car

crash, in which both died, were published to allegedly nail the lie of Mr Mohamed Al Fayed,

the father of Dodi Fayed, that lady Diana and Mr Dodi Fayed had visited Villa Windsor in

Paris one day before their accident (which, however, Mr Fayed liked to term as

assassination) for more than two hours as they intended to get married. The pictures which

bore the date and time of entry and exit were used to demonstrate that the two, i.e., Lady

Diana and Mr Dodi Fayed were in the house together only for 28 minutes and not for two

hours, as claimed by Mr Fayed. The plaintiff claimed copyright in respect of the said

pictures. The court of first instance, had refused the injunction which propelled the plaintiff

to approach the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal while agreeing with the plaintiffs

discussed issues pertaining to the defence of „fair dealing‟. It is important to note that, the

plaintiff had sought a summary judgment against the defendants. The Court of Appeal held

that since many allegations had been made by the defendants, which were in dispute, the

issues of fact could not be resolved, on the basis of written evidence the matter ought to CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 12 of 32 have been tried. That while determining whether the use of the copyrighted material had

been for the purpose of reporting a current event what has to be seen is that „fair dealing‟

must involve fair dealing for an "approved purpose", and not a dealing which might be fair

for some other purpose or fair in general. The court made a brief reference to the

observations made in Pro Sieben Media (supra) that motives of the user were relevant when

considering whether the dealing was fair. The learned Judge went on to say that "I

believe it right, that it is appropriate to take into account the motives of the alleged

infringer, the extent and purpose of the use and whether the extent was necessary for the

purpose of reporting the current events in question. Further if the work had not been

published or circulated to the public that is an important indication that the dealing was

not fair.......... Thus the court must judge the fairness by the objective standard of whether

a fair minded and honest person would have dealt with the copyright work, in the manner

that The Sun did, for the purpose of reporting the relevant current events, in this case the

published untruthful statements of Mr Al Fayed...." In paragraphs 40 and 41 of the

judgment the court made the following observations on the extent of use of the photographs

of The Sun: 7.6 Notably the Court of Appeal drew a distinction between a defence of public interest

where an obligation of maintaining confidence is sought to be enforced and when such a

defence is taken in an action for infringement of copyright. The observations of the Court in

paragraph 64 to 67 being relevant are extracted hereinbelow: Associated Newspapers Group PLC vs News Group Newspapers Ltd. & Ors (supra)

7.7 This judgment reiterated the point that in dealing with the defence of fairness the

motive of the user is material. The following extracts of the judgment of the Walton J.

being instructive is extracted hereinbelow: Fraser-Woodward Ltd vs British Broadcasting Corporation & Anr (supra)

7.8 The facts briefly were as follows: An action for infringement of copyright in

photographs concerning the Beckham family was instituted by a company namely Fraser-

Woodward Limited. Mr Jason Fraser, photographer, who had taken the photographs of

Beckham family, which included David Beckham, a well-known English footballer, his wife

Victoria Beckham a member of pop group „Spice Girls‟ also known as Posh Spice and their

two children Brooklyn and Romeo. During the course of the case the Beckham‟s had a third

child as well. The Chancery Division, while dealing with the defence of „fair dealing‟

reiterated the test of motives of the user‟ (i) that „fair dealing‟ was a matter of „impression‟ (ii) excessive use can render a use unfair in ascertaining as to whether the copyrighted works

has been dealt with fairly, court will have regard to the actual purpose of the work. An

attempt to dress up infringement of another‟s copyright in the guise of criticism and,

therefore, profit from the same, be discouraged. (iii) substantiality will be an element

which will be taken into consideration to determine whether what has been done amounts to

a fair dealing or not. The court will be alive to this aspect - where long extracts of the

copyrighted work are taken which are accompanied with number of comments. The test

should be applied keeping in mind the medium which is used while replicating the

copyrighted works. For example when the test of substantiality is applied where the

medium is television and a comparative analysis is made by using copyrighted work it may

make sense in certain cases to show the entire work for the comparison to be meaningful.

Even so it may lead to a conclusion of fair dealing, other things being equal, that

notwithstanding substantial portion of the copyright work having been taken it was made CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 16 of 32 use for the purpose of review and criticism bearing in mind that in case of a television

programme the exposure is normally neither continuous nor permanent as compared to

printed material. Reproduction of the work in which copyright is claimed should not

unreasonably prejudice the other or a conflict with others normal exploitation of work. The

court also rejected the plea that any commercial use of copyrighted work would make it

unfair. The test was to ascertain the motive behind user of the copyrighted work, i.e., it was

a case of genuine criticism or review. Ashdown vs Telegraph Group Ltd (supra)

7.9 This is a case where the Court of Appeal was called upon to determine as to whether

the Human Rights Act, 1998 had impacted on the protection afforded to owners of copyright

by the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, 1998. This issue arose in the following

background: In the General Election held on 01.05.1997 the Labour Party won by a land

slide margin. Discussions had been held with Liberal Democrats prior to the election for a

possible review of the voting system, by introducing some form of proportional

representation. After the Election it appears that meetings on this aspect had been held, and

one such meeting was held at the British Prime Minister‟s residence. The record of the

minutes of the meeting was kept by the leader of the Liberal Democrats, i.e., Mr Paddy

Ashdown. Mr Ashdown, it appears, kept a diary in which the concerned minutes had also

been entered. The meeting in issue was held amongst Mr Ashdown, the then Prime

Minister and three other persons. The minutes of the meeting were dictated after the

meeting by Mr Ashdown to his secretary. Only two copies of the minutes were made; one

of which was kept in Mr Ashdown‟s diaries, the other was read by his closest advisers, and

thereafter shredded. The diary and the minutes were treated by him as confidential. It

appears that Mr Ashdown intended to publish his diary. These minutes of the meeting were

shown by him only to some individuals who were representatives of the newspapers of

publishing houses. Considerable interest was shown by Sunday Telegraph but no contract

was executed with Sunday Telegraph before publication of the minutes. Before Mr

Ashdown could publish his diary a copy of the minute in issue reached the editor of The

Sunday Telegraph. The Sunday Telegraph had not paid for the minutes acquired by them. CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 17 of 32 The editor of The Sunday Telegraph also knew that the document was a confidential. He, in

the newspaper article, described it as "leaked document‟ and a „secret record‟. An action

was instituted by Mr Ashdown, wherein claims for breach of confidence and copyright

infringement were made. Injunction and damages, and in the alternative, account of profits

were sought in the claim. An application was made by Mr Ashdown for summary judgment

on the ground that the defendant The Sunday Telegraph had no realistic chance of

successfully defending the action and hence, there was a compelling reason that the claim

should not go to trial. The court, in the first instance, granted an injunction against the

defendant for further infringement. It also directed the defendant to disclose the information

to enable him to elect between damages and account of profits. While analyzing the rights

conferred under the Human Rights Act and those under the English Copyright Act the court

made the following crucial observations: .....40. Fressoz and Roire was not a copyright case, but it illustrates a general
 principle. Freedom of expression protects the right both to publish information
 and to receive it. There will be occasions when it is in the public interest not
 merely that information should be published, but that the public should be told
 the very words used by a person, notwithstanding that the author enjoys
 copyright in them. On occasions, indeed, it is the form and not the content of a
 document which is of interest..... .....45. For these reasons, we have reached the conclusion that rare
 circumstances can arise where the right of freedom of expression will come into
 conflict with the protection afforded by the Copyright Act , notwithstanding the
 express exceptions to be found in the Act. In these circumstances, we consider
 that the court is bound, in so far as it is able, to apply the Act in a manner that
 accommodates the right of freedom of expression. This will make it necessary CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 18 of 32 for the court to look closely at the acts of individual cases (as indeed it must
 whenever a "fair dealing‟ defence is raised). We do not foresee this leading to a
 flood of litigation. 46. The first way in which it may be possible to do this is by declining the
 discretionary relief of an injunction. Usually, so it seems to us, such a step will
 be likely to be sufficient. If a newspaper considers it necessary to copy the exact
 words created by another, we can see no reason in principle why the newspaper
 should not indemnify the author for any loss caused to him, or alternatively
 account to him for any profit made as a result of copying his work. Freedom of
 expression should not normally carry with it the right to make free use of
 another‟s work. 7.10 On the aspect of public interest the court disagreed with the view of Aldous L.J. in

Hyde Park (supra) and approved the concurrent judgment of Mance L.J. in the same context

while making the following observations: 7.11 On the aspect of fair dealing the comments of the authors of Laddie, Prescott &

Vitoria, The Modern Law of Copyright and Designs were cited with approval. These being: Hawkes & Son (London) Ltd vs Paramount Film Service Ltd. (supra) and Ladbroke
(Football) Ltd vs William Hill (Football) Ltd (supra)

7.12 In these two American cases the principle laid down was the same. In Hawkes &

Sons (supra) the issue was of substantiality. The stress was that substantiality had to be

ascertained especially in musical works not always from a quantitative point of view but

also from a qualitative point of view by examining as to whether the replicated part was an

essential part of the original work. Similarly, in Ladbroke (Football) (supra) the Hawkes &

Sons (supra) case was followed wherein the court observed that in deciding whether there is

infringement of copyright in a literary compilation, what requires ascertainment is: firstly,

whether the work as a whole is entitled to copyright, and, second, whether the part produced

by the defendant is a substantial part of the whole. It would not be a correct approach to

dissect the work into fragments if, fragments are not entitled to copyright. In determining

whether there has been a substantial appropriation of the copyrighted work quality and not

the quantity may be determinable factor. CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 20 of 32 Baxter vs MCA Inc (supra)

7.13 This was a case where one Baxter had composed seven songs which were intended

to invoke or represent emotions. These songs were published in the form of an album

entitled „The Passions‟. Joy, one of the composition of the album was used by the defendant

in his composition "Theme From E.T". The plaintiff Mr Baxter submitted that the Theme

From E.T. was largely copied from his copyrighted song Joy. The plaintiff accordingly

filed an action for infringement and demanded a jury trial. The defendants, on the other

hand, moved for summary judgment on the ground that as a matter of law, the song Theme

from E.T. was not substantially similar to protectable expression in Joy and, therefore, there

was no case for infringement. The court, after reviewing the submitted evidence granted

defendants‟ motion for summary judgment. Matter was carried in appeal to the Court of

Appeal 9th Circuit. The court observed in order to establish successful claim for copyright

infringement the plaintiff must prove (i) ownership of copyright (ii) „copying‟ of protectable

expression by the defendant (iii) the determination of substantial similarity of expression are

subtle and complex. The test to be applied is an „intrinsic‟ one by this court, which depends

not upon external criteria, but instead upon the response of the ordinary reasonable person to

the works. Analystic dissection and expert testimony are not called for; the gauge of

substantial similarity is the response of the ordinary lay hearer. Since substantial similarity

is usually an extremely close issue of fact, summary judgment is disfavoured on such an

issue as a general rule. At the stage of summary judgment the test to be applied is whether

reasonable minds could differ as to the absence of substantial similarity of expression as

between Joy and Theme from E.T. Since reasonable minds could differ on the issue,

summary judgment was not occasioned. Even if copied portion is relatively small in

proportion to the entire work, if qualitatively important, the finder of fact may properly find

substantial similarity. The earlier view in the case of Robertson (supra) was applied.

Sony BMG Music Entertainment, et al vs Jeol Tenenbaum (supra)

7.14 This was a case where the defendant was arraigned as a party in a copyright

infringement action for using file-sharing software, as a college sophomore, to download

and distribute 30 copyrighted songs belonging to the plaintiffs. The defence set was that CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 21 of 32 file-sharing constitutes fair use under the copyright act. In this context the court gleaned

five factors in order to determine whether a fair use of the copyrighted material has been

made: 9. Let me also refer to few Indian decisions to illustrate the position that the courts in

India have broadly taken with respect to infringement of copyright and the defence of fair

dealing. In M/s Blackwood and Sons Ltd. and Others vs. A.N.Parasuraman and Others ,

AIR 1959 Mad 410, amongst various other questions, the question which arose before court

was: whether guides published by the defendants of two books; the first one being "The

Return of the Native" by Thomas hardy, and the other a collection of stories by

Rabindranath Tagore violated the copyright claimed by the plaintiffs in the said book, and if

it was so, whether the defendants had made a fair use of the extracts taken from the

copyrighted work. On facts, the court found in respect of the first issue that since the

reproduction of the original work was substantial there had been an infringement. As

regards the second issue, the court found that defence of the fair dealing could be

appreciated only in the context of the specific exceptions provided in the statute i.e., Section

2(1) of the Copyright Act, 1911. The defendant in that case had invoked the defence of fair

dealing on the ground that the work was a work of "research". Certain principles which are

deducible from the said judgment are: 9.1 In the case of Rupendra Kashyap v. Jiwan Publishing House 1996 (38) DRJ 81,

the plaintiff came to the court seeking an injunction against the contesting defendant against

publishing and printing past years‟ question papers of class X and XII examination

conducted by Central Board of Secondary Education (in short „CBSE‟) on the ground that

he had exclusive licence for publishing the past papers and hence, was the owner of

copyright under Section 54 of the Copyright Act, 1957. One of the issues which the court

was required to consider was the defence of fair dealing raised by the defendants on the

ground that they were dealing with literary work for the purposes of "research" or "private

studies". The other question which came up for consideration was that the denial of right to

the contesting defendants to publish examination papers would create a monopoly in favour

of the plaintiff and hence, would not be in public interest. In respect of the defence of fair

dealing the court applied the test of "commercial exploitation" and observed that if a CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 26 of 32 publisher commercially exploits the original work and in doing so infringes the copyright,

the defence of fair dealing would not be available to such a publisher even if the book

published by him is used or meant to be used for research or private study. As regards the

other issue the court held that the argument of public interest was not tenable as it was not as

if the examination papers of the past years were not in public domain. The plaintiff, being

the exclusive licencee, had in the past by publishing the papers, put them in the public

domain on payment of royality to CBSE. The court in the passing, however, observed as

follows:- 9.2 In Wiley Eastern Ltd & Others vs. Indian Institute of Management 61 (1996) DLT

281 (DB), the Division Bench of this court was called upon in appeal to consider the

correctness of the order passed by the learned Single Judge, whereby the plaint was

returned. During the course of the arguments, the plaintiff was also permitted to argue as to

whether the court had the jurisdiction to reject the plaint under the provisions of Order 7

Rule 11 of the CPC in the absence of cause of action. In that context the court observed that Section 51 speaks of what is infringement of copyright. If a particular act is not an

infringement falling within any of clauses of Section 51 , then the act cannot be an

infringement. Section 51 being exhaustive as to what is infringement of copyright, resort to Section 52 is not permissible. Section 52 gives examples of fair dealing with regard to

literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work for the purposes of research or private study, or

for purposes of criticism or review, or a fair dealing for purpose of reporting current events

in a newspaper, magazine or periodical or by broadcast or in a cinematograph film. These

are constituted as not amounting to infringement of copyright. The court went on to observe

that if, use made by the infringer is not fair, in the context of purposes set out in Section 52 ,

it would not ipso facto fall under Section 51 ; and if, it amounts to defamation, then the

remedy of the person may be in the form of damages. Crucially, it was observed that the

"basic purpose of Section 52 is to protect the freedom of expression under Article 19(1) of CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 27 of 32 the Constitution of India so that the research, private study, criticism or review or reporting

of current events could be protected. Section 52 is not intended by Parliament to negatively

prescribe what is an "infringement". I may only add that approach to be adopted is really

whether the impugned action results in an infringement, if it does then one would only look

at the gateways in Section 52 . 9.3 The Supreme Court in the case of Eastern Book Company & Others vs. D.B.

Modak & Another , (2008) 1 SCC 1 was called upon to adjudicate as to whether the

appellants before it (Eastern Book Company) could claim copyright in copy-edited versions

of the judgments delivered by the Supreme Court. In other words, could the copy edited

judgments of the Supreme Court, which were derivative work, be treated as the original

work of the author and, therefore, accorded protection under the Copyright Act, 1957 . The

broad principles enunciated in the judgment are: 9.4 In ESPN Star Sports (supra) the test of substantiality in the context of „fair dealing‟

was stressed. The learned counsel for the defendant had laid particular emphasis on

observations at page 500 placetum e to g and placetum a to d. In the case of The

Chancellor Masters and Scholars of the University of Oxford vs Narendera Publishing

House and Ors (2008) 38 PTC 385 the court in a lucid discussion of the law on the subject

of infringement of copyright relied upon the „transformative work‟ test to determine as to

whether there was fair use of the copyrighted work. 10. Having considered the broad principles of the English, American and the Indian

cases it appears to me that the Copyright Act, 1957 , as amended from time, has incorporated

most of the principles enunciated by courts across various jurisdictions. However, in the

Indian context the right flows from the statute. In this context it may be, therefore,

necessary to advert to some provisions of the Copyright Act to the extent they are relevant.

Sub-section (1) of Section 13 of the Copyright Act provides that subject to the provisions of

this Section and other provisions of the Copyright Act , copyright shall subsist throughout

India in the following classes of works which includes (i) original literary, dramatic, musical

and artistic works; (ii) Cinematograph works; and, (iii) sound recordings. Section 14 states

that copyright means the exclusive right to do or authorize the doing of the acts in respect of

a work or any substantial part thereof as provided in classes (a) to (e) enunciated therein.

The rights of the copyright holder are subject to other provisions of the Copyright Act . Section 17 recognizes the fact that the author of the work shall be the first owner. This CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 29 of 32 again is subject to the other provisions of the Copyright Act . Section 19 provides the

methodology by which an author can assign his rights in a copyrightable work. Similarly, Section 30 recognizes the right of the owners of copyright to execute a licence in respect of

their works. Section 31 provides for compulsory licenses in respect of works which are

unreasonably withheld from public. The power in this respect has been given to the

Copyright Board. Section 51 alludes to actions which would result in infringement of

copyright. As to the actions which will not constitute infringement of copyright are

provided in Section 52 of the Copyright Act. The definition of an infringing copy is

provided in Section 2(m) . 10.1 For the purposes of the controversy which has arisen in the present case, it may be

relevant to refer to Sections 52(1)(a) and 52(1)(b) as also Section 39(b) . These provisions

set out the gateways against the action for infringement of copyright. The gateways being: HAMAR TV
Date File/ Song Track Time Dur. Prog. Comment- Musical
 Album (Hrs.) (sec.) score played in the
 background which has
 no relevance to the
 content/report
10.09.2009 Tezab Jeena Audio 19:49 30 Hamar Report on attempt to
 Nahin + Mumbai suicide and murder in
 Video Mumbai. 11. The first issue, therefore, which arises is: did the defendant take substantial extracts

from the plaintiff‟s work. In my view, there is a complete convergence on the issue as to

what constitutes "substantial takings". The law in India on this issue does not seem to be

any different from that in England or in USA. Therefore, while the extent of extract, that is,

the "quantitative" test has its part to play in determining infringement of a copyrighted work

the "quality" is equally important. This is especially so, in the case of a musical work. A

single note may in certain cases lead to an infringement if it forms an "essential" part of the CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 31 of 32 copyrighted work. The test will have to be that of a "lay hearer". Applying this test to the

material filed prima facie leads me to a conclusion that the extracts taken are substantial.

11.1 The next question which arises is: was the use of the extract "fair". As indicated

hereinabove, a defendant can rely upon the gateways carved in Section 52 or 39 only if he is

able to demonstrate that the copyrighted work is used for purposes indicated therein. If the

defendant has an arguable defence the court will refuse an injunction. In the instant case,

out of a large number of allegedly infringing material produced before me most of them did

not fall within the exceptions provided in Section 52(1)(a)(ii) or Section 52(1)(b)(ii) of the

Copyright Act. They were neither used for the purposes of criticism or review nor shown to

be necessary for the purpose of reportage of current events. I have carefully alluded to the

extreme instances out of the material filed before me to demonstrate the point. 12. The question, however, remains as to what would be nature of the interim order

which the court can pass in a case like this. The defendant is in the business of running T.V.

channel. Each infringement, if it occurs, supplies a fresh cause of action. The plaintiff in the

suit, apart from seeking a permanent injunction, has also sought rendition of accounts of

profits and a resultant decree in respect of amounts found due. In my opinion it is not

possible to anticipate an infringement by the defendant from here on. The defendant would

do well in refraining from using the copyrighted work of the plaintiff contrary to principles

of "fair dealing" referred to hereinabove. In the event it is found at the stage of trial that the

defendant continued to use the plaintiff‟s copyrighted work there would possibly be a cause

for grant of aggravated damages. 13. The applications are disposed of with the aforementioned observations. RAJIV SHAKDHER, J
MAY 24, 2010
kk CS(OS) 1889/2009 & 1889/2009 Page 32 of 32