SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Dealing with fraud Packers and movers
DATE: 2021-08-08
SCORE: 26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/p0a8ql/dealing_with_fraud_packers_and_movers/

--- POST TEXT ---

I've read a lot of stories on the internet regarding P&amp;M who don't deliver stuff or held them hostage and asked for extra money and all, I think I might be in a trap right now.

I got a contact number from one of my acquaintance, who moved his motorbike from the same city to his home. I called him asked if he is from VRL and he said yes.We had a deal for 4.5K (monitor, violin, trolley bag and laptop bag, he didn't ask for weight and all) which was quite cheap so I didn't think much.

The stuff got picked yesterday from Bangalore (I wasn't there one of my friends went there and helped them with it). Next I received a bill that said 4.5K + 600 insurance(based on price I mentioned) and a bunch of other taxes including GST totaling to 6900. But provided that I didn't expect it to be that cheap anyway I paid it.

The catch is: The bill was from something called "Gati express", I called the guy and asked why doesn't the bill say VRL to which he replies " Sir, actually I've moved to this one recently, but I helped moving your brother's stuff back when I was in VRL and I am from Rajasthan (the destination for my stuff) too so trust me.

I trusted and did the payment. He didn't send me the tracking link yesterday so I called him asking about it, he said that it isn't dispatched yet because of some issues , I'll send you the link today at 8 PM.

The website mentioned on the bill looks like something that was made a month ago or so may be and has fake clients obviously.

Thing is: It could very well be a genuine person trying his own thing out and he was scared that if he mentioned the VRL thing earlier I would discard. Once the goods were sent I had no choice as my friend had left the city as well.

The way pricing got increased once the items reached him is bothering me a lot and of course the fact that the only place this Gati express is visible on is their not so professionally made website.

&amp;#x200B;

I have one of my cousins in Bangalore who can pick stuff up from there and I guess the refund thing will be a big debate coz if he is fraud, he would like to keep as much as he can.

The choice I have is:- Trust him and wait till tomorrow- Not trust him and ask my cousin to pick my stuff up from his place (which is not visible on google maps so I'll have to be dependent on him to give me exact location)

Also, what if, in case the items get dispatched and then this guy starts blackmailing and asking for more money ?

I have the whatsapp chat which is proof of payment and all, but I don't have all the call recordings where he was hiding the fact that he is not working with VRL and kept talking as if he was.

I'm not in Bangalore so I can't go to his office and have a talk either and from my POV I don't think I could have done anything differently except not pay as soon as I saw that it was not VRL, but then again, I didn't have anyone to collect items back from him back then as my friend had already left for airport.

&amp;#x200B;

Update: 
According to him it's on the way and reach by 14th. He still didn't send me the tracking link though and gave the most obvious excuse: "Servers are down and we are overloaded with work right now. Don't worry your stuff will reach"

Update: I've received a delhivery link from him (which is what he used to send my brother's stuff too) and it says it's in transit. I'm not able to view order details by entering my number though, will check with him once tomorrow. 
But at least I have a tracking link now so I think it's fine.