1. The accused Allauddin and Mohd. Wasim have been sent to

 stand trial for the commission of offences punishable u/s 489C and

 489D read with section 34 IPC registered at the police station 1 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . Connaught Place vide FIR no. 710/06. 2. The case of the prosecution is that on 24.12.06 at about 2:00

 pm, an informer came in the office of AATS New Delhi and informed

 SI Daya Chand that Mohd Wasim and Allauddin involved in the

 business of counterfeit currency notes would come at Palika Bazar gate

 no. 1 in between 3.00 to 3.30 pm to deliver fake currency notes to

 someone. SI Daya Chand produced the informer before the Inspector

 Sudesh Kumar who also verified the information and directed SI Daya

 Chand to take action. 3. A raiding party comprising of SI Daya Chand, Ct. Ramesh,

 Ct. Naresh, Ct. Dharmender, Ct. Rajesh, Ct. Mohan and Ct. Hawa

 Singh went to the spot in a private qualis with the informer. They

 reached there at about 2.30 pm where SI requested 4­5 public persons

 to join but none agreed. At about 3.00 pm the accused persons came in

 the park of the Palika Bazar near gate no. 1 and started waiting for the

 person who had to take delivery. At about 3.30 pm when they started

 retreating, SI with the help of his staff apprehended them. From the

 right pocket of pant of accused Wasim 100 notes of Rs. 500

 denomination bearing identical number 0AF 415913 were recovered.

 From accused Allauddin, 25 notes of Rs. 1000 denomination bearing 2 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . identical number 5AB 770255 were recovered. On inquiry, they

 revealed that they had to deliver the notes to Rashid Khan and they

 print the notes on their computers. The fake currency notes were

 sealed in two pullandas with the seal of DCV and the seal after use was

 given to Ct Hawa Singh. A rukka was sent from the spot for

 registration of the case. Further investigation was conducted by ASI

 Naim Khan. He arrested both the accused persons who on interrogation

 disclosed of their involvement in the racket of making and using fake

 currency notes. Accused Allauddin took the police party to his house at

 A ­ 91­92, Ram Nagar, Nabi Karim and got recovered a monitor, CPU,

 scanner, key board, UPS, scissor with the help of which they used to

 print counterfeit currency notes. He also produced a packet containing

 100 notes of Rs. 1000 denomination bearing the identical number 5AB

 770255. Five pullandas were prepared and sealed with the seal of MN.

 Accused Wasim also took the police party to his house at 7557, Gali

 Panchakki, Kasabpura. From the first floor of the house, he got

 recovered a monitor, CPU, scanner, key board with the help of which

 he used to print the counterfeit currency notes. He also produced a

 white polythene which had 80 notes of Rs. 500 denomination bearing

 the number 4CW 820117 and 100 notes of Rs. 100 denomination

 bearing the number 9 HD 101161. Four pullandas were prepared and

 sealed with seal of MN. The pullandas were deposited in the 3 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . malkhana. The notes in the sealed packets were sent to Reserve Bank

 of India through Ct. Hawa Singh where the Treasurer, Cash

 Department after examination opined the currency notes not genuine.

 The notes were again sent to Currency Note Press, Nasik which also

 gave the similar report. The CPU was sent to the CFSL, Hyderabad.

 There the hard disks on examination were found to contain the scanned

 images of Indian Currency notes of various denominations. After the

 investigation, the charge sheet was filed. 4. After taking cognizance of offence and supplying the copy of

 the charge sheet to the accused persons u/s 207 Cr.P.C., the case was

 committed to the court of session which was allocated to this court. The

 predecessor of this court after hearing detailed arguments vide order

 dated 20/3/2008 made out a prima facie case against both the accused

 persons. They were charged u/s 489C and 489 D IPC for possessing

 fake currency notes of various denominations and instruments /

 equipments for the purpose of being used for forging and making

 counterfeit currency notes to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed

 trial. While going through the file, it was transpired that the charge

 was not framed for the recovery of counterfeit notes from the house of 4 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . the accused persons. Hence, amended charge was framed on

 30.03.2011 to which both the accused pleaded not guilty. It was

 submitted by the counsel for the accused that the factum of recovery of

 notes from the house of accused persons has already come in evidence

 so prosecution witnesses may not be called again for evidence after the

 amended charge. No further incriminating evidence came to record

 the supplementary statement of the accused persons nor the accused led

 further evidence in their defence. 5. To prove its case, prosecution examined as many as ten

 witnesses. Ld. APP also tendered the report of Currency Note Press,

 Ex. PX and the CFSL, Hyderabad Ex. C­2 in evidence. PW1 Sh. Devinder Kumar was the treasurer in RBI, Cash

 department before whom the sealed envelopes containing currency

 notes were opened by Ct. Hawa Singh. He on examination gave his

 opinion Ex. PW1/A that the currency notes were not genuine. The

 notes were also produced before him which he identified as Ex. P1 to

 P3 colly. PW2 Ct. Mohan Singh accompanied the SI Daya Chand at

 Palika Bazar and witnessed the recovery and the seizure proceedings.

 He also went to the house of the accused persons and witnessed the

 recovery of equipments and fake currency notes from their possession. 5 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . The case property was produced before him which he identified as Ex.

 P1 to P12. PW3 Ct. Siripal had taken the two sealed pullandas of CPU

 bearing the seal of MN to CFSL, Hyderabad vide RC no. 10/21. PW4 Ct.Hawa Singh was the witness of recovery of fake

 currency notes and the equipments at both the places. He received the

 seal after use from SI Daya Chand and had taken the packets containing

 counterfeit currency notes to RBI for opinion, 

 PW5 Ct. Ramesh Kumar was also the member of the

 raiding team which conducted the raid and effected the recovery at both

 the places. PW6 ASI Devinder recorded the FIR ExPW6/A on receipt

 of rukka from Ct. Ramesh and handed over further investigation to ASI

 Mohd. Naim. PW7 ASI Mohd. Naim did the investigation after the

 registration of the case. He prepared the site plan ExPW7/A, collected

 the relevant documents and the case property, arrested the accused,

 interrogated them, recorded their disclosure statements ExPW4/G and

 ExPW4/H and did further recovery. He also sent the notes and the

 CPU to Press Currency notes Press, Nasik and CFSL Hyderabad

 respectively for expert opinion. 6 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . PW8 HC Satinder was present in the police station when Ct.

 Hawa Singh brought the envelopes and the opinion given by the

 Treasurer RBI. The packets were resealed by ASI Mohd Naim and

 deposited in the malkhana of which ASI made the entry Ex. Pw8/A.

 PW9 Ct. Rajesh was also the member of raiding team.

 PW10 SI Daya Chand had received the information and led

 the team. He recovered the fake currency notes from the possession of

 the accused persons from near gate no. 1 of Palika Bazar. 6. Both the accused were examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C . wherein

 they controverted the entire prosecution case and pleaded their

 innocence. They stated that they did not make any disclosure statement

 rather the police had taken their signatures on the various written or

 semi written papers without disclosing their contents. They also denied

 the recovery and using fake counterfeit currency notes as genuine. 7. I have heard the arguments advanced by ld APP for the State

 and Ld. counsel Sh. Kamal J.S. Mann for both the accused persons and

 perused the entire material placed on record. 8. Ld counsel for the accused contended that as per the 7 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . information, the accused had to come at the parking area of Palika

 Bazar but the prosecution witnesses have stated that the accused were

 apprehended from the park even the parking area was not shown in the

 site plan. Ld counsel further contended that no public witness was

 joined at both the places to witness the proceedings though available.

 Even the driver of the qualis was not made witness. The investigating

 agency did not take print from the CPU allegedly recovered from the

 house search to find out whether the fake currency notes could be

 printed from the computer. Ld counsel further stated that the pulladas

 do not bear the signature of accused and it is a case of planted recovery

 to falsely implicate the accused persons. 9. Ld APP on the contrary argued that the accused were

 apprehended on a secret information which was very specific qua both

 the accused persons that they would come near gate no1. of Palika

 bazar to deliver fake currency notes to someone. Ld APP further stated

 that from the possession of the accused persons, counterfeit currency

 notes were recovered and they also got recovered the instruments with

 the help of which they used to make counterfeit currency notes. Ld

 APP further stated that the notes and the instruments were sent to

 Currency Note Press, Nasik and CFSL Hyderabad which reports are

 also against the accused. Ld APP stated that the efforts were made to 8 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . join public persons but none agreed to join. The place of recovery has

 been shown in the site plan and it is not a case of planted recovery. 10. I have considered the rival contentions. 11. In the instant case, Pw10 had received the information which

 he recorded vide DD no. 5 Ex. Pw10/A as per which Mohd Wasim and

 Allauddin involved in the business of counterfeit notes would come at

 the park behind gate no. 1 of Palika Bazar in between 3.00 to 3.30 pm

 to make the delivery of fake currency notes to someone. Pw10 has

 stated that the accused were apprehended from the park of Palika Bazar

 in front of gate no. 1. Even in the site plan Ex. Pw7/A the accused

 have been shown to have been apprehended at the park near gate no.1

 of Palika Bazar which fact is also stated by the other prosecution

 witnesses. I do not find force in the contention of Ld defence counsel

 that as per the information that the accused had to come at the parking.

 The information was very specific qua the park, location of which has

 been shown in the site plan Ex. Pw7/A. 12. Pw10 has stated that after getting the information, he

 produced the informer before the Inspector who on getting satisfied

 directed him to conduct raid. He stated that he with his team went to 9 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . the spot in a private qualis arranged by him from M/s. Rajasthan

 Travels. Admittedly prosecution did not join the driver of the Palika

 Bazar but it is also relevant to note that the vehicle was parked at the

 parking of the Palika Bazar but the accused were apprehended from the

 park. That could have been the reason for not joining the qualis driver

 during the raid. In the instant case, proceedings were also witnessed by

 Pw2, Pw4, Pw5 and Pw9 besides Pw10. No doubt the testimony of

 independent witness inspires more confidence but it is equally settled

 that the conviction can also be based on the testimony of police

 officials if found to be consistent and cogent. I get support from the

 case of Delias Christopher v. Customs 2004(3) JCC 147. It is not the

 case that no effort was made to join public persons at the time of raid.

 Pw10 and other prosecution witnesses have stated that on the spot 4­5

 passers­by were requested to join but none agreed. The possibility and

 availability of a public witness for joining investigation is a fanciful

 myth like meeting of the sky at the horizon. The near you go, the far it

 becomes and the ultimate meeting point never reaches. The public

 witness now a days has become a rare commodity. No one is ready to

 join police investigation either because of the fear of the accused or

 because of the inconvenience to be suffered in attending the courts.

 That being the position non joining of public persons during the raid is

 not fatal to the case of the prosecution. 10 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . 13. Pw10 has stated that at about 3:00 pm the accused came from

 the side of gate no. 1 at the park where they waited for the person who

 had who take delivery of counterfeit notes from them. He stated that at

 about 3.30 pm when they were about to leave, since the person had not

 come by then, at the pointing out of the informer he with the help of his

 staff apprehended both the accused and from their search he recovered

 the fake currency notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 denomination bearing

 the identical number vide seizure memo Ex. Pw4/A and ExPW4/B. He

 stated that the seal after use was given to Ct. Hawa Singh which fact is

 also stated by Pw4 in his testimony. He has categorically denied the

 suggestion that no recovery of counterfeit currency notes was effected

 from the possession of the accused or he had taken the signatures of the

 accused persons on various blank and semi written documents by use

 of force without disclosing their contents. Pw2, Pw4, Pw6 and Pw9

 have fully corroborated his testimony on the point of recovery of

 counterfeit notes from the possession of accused persons at Palika

 Bazar park. They were tested at the anvil of cross examination but no

 material contradictions came in their testimony to doubt on their

 presence or their veracity. The counterfeit notes were produced before

 them which they identified correctly. 11 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . 14. During arguments learned counsel pointed out that the sealed

 packet containing fake currency notes were sent to RBI where after the

 opinion the packets were handed over to Pw4 in unsealed condition

 which were re­sealed by Pw7 and deposited in the malkhana. No

 explanation was given by the prosecution why the notes instead

 sending to some laboratory were sent to RBI. Further the chances of

 tampering with the counterfeit currency notes in these circumstances

 cannot be ruled out. I do not agree with this contention as in the seizure

 memo Ex. Pw4/A, Pw4/B, Pw2/A and Pw2/B the serial number of the

 seized notes have been given. Pw1 the Treasurer RBI in his testimony

 has given the serial number of the notes which he had examined on the

 basis of which he gave his report Ex. Pw1/A. Even the Currency Notes

 Press report Ex. PX contained the details of the serial number of the

 notes sent for opinion. On comparing the two, I do not find any

 difference in the serial number of the notes. So there was no question

 of their tampering. Even otherwise, the notes were produced in the

 Court before the witnesses which they correctly identified being the

 same counterfeit currency notes which were seized from the accused

 persons. As regards the contention, why the notes were sent to RBI for

 opinion, perusal of the testimony of the prosecution witnesses reveals

 that after seeking opinion from RBI, the notes were sent to Currency

 Note Press, Nasik and as per the report Ex. PX the referred notes were 12 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . found to be counterfeit notes. Thus sending notes to RBI does not

 prove fatal to the case of prosecution. 15. Pw10 has stated that after sending the rukka, he handed over

 further investigation to Pw7. Ld counsel has drawn the attention of this

 court on the rukka Ex. Pw6/B as per which Pw10 had requested to

 entrust further investigation to Pw7. No doubt Pw10 should not have

 mentioned this fact in the rukka but it is also to be noted that it is the

 prerogative of the SHO / Inspector to entrust further investigation and

 in the instant case Pw7 has specifically stated that further investigation

 was marked to him by the Inspector. It is not the case that Pw7 had

 come at the spot on the directions of Pw10 rather he was directed by

 the Inspector. 16. Pw7 has stated that after getting the relevant documents and

 the custody of the accused persons, he interrogated them who made

 disclosure Ex. Pw4/G and ExPW4/H and in pursuant thereto they took

 them to their houses and got recovered the instruments and some more

 fake currency notes from there which he seized vide memo Ex. Pw2/B

 and Pw2/A after sealing with the seal of MN. Pw3 had taken the sealed

 pullanda containing the CPU to CFSL, Hyderabad. As per the report

 Ex. C2 the hard disks in the CPU were found to contain the scanned 13 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . images of Indian currency notes of various denominations. The CFSL

 report also shows that the pullandas had the seal of MN which fact was

 also stated by Pw7 that he had sealed the CPU with the seal of MN.

 Nothing came in the testimony of prosecution witnesses that the hard

 disc / CPU before it reached the CFSL was tampered with. As per

 settled proposition of law, the hard disc on which the informations are

 recorded are the documents within the meaning of Section 173(5)(a) r/w Section 207 (v) of Cr.P.C. It is admissible in evidence if the

 possibility of tempering with or erasure is ruled out. No doubt in the

 instant case, the seizing officer did not collect the prints at the time of

 seizing of hardwares / CPU but he had sealed the same at the same time

 and as per the report Ex. C2, the hard disc in the CPU had the scanned

 images of Indian Currency notes of various denominations. The

 accused at no stage raised doubt on the reports Ex. PX and ExC2.

 Further the testimony of Pw1 Treasurer RBI also remained unrebutted.

 Facts and circumstances lead to an irresistible conclusion that both the

 accused were involved in preparing / making counterfeit currency notes

 with the help of the CPU / equipments, recovered from their possession

 / at their instance. 17. It was contended by Ld counsel that no public witness was

 joined when the house search was made. Perusal of testimony of Pw7 14 State Vs. Allauddin and ors. reveals that the accused after the disclosure statement had taken the

 police party to their houses and got recovered the equipments and the

 fake currency notes. PW7 has admitted that the houses of the accused

 persons were surrounded by the other houses. He stated that he had

 requested the residents of other houses to join the proceedings but none

 agreed. So it cannot be said that he did not make any effort to join

 public persons on the spot. The other prosecution witnesses have fully

 corroborated and supported the case of prosecution on the aspect of

 recovery of equipments and counterfeit notes from the houses of the

 accused persons. 18. Now coming to the contention that the documents do not

 bear the signature of the accused persons. Perusal of the documents

 reveal that disclosure statement bears the signature of the accused as

 well as the witnesses. The recovery memo also bears their signatures. 19. It was pointed out by ld counsel that the investigating agency

 did not collect any document to connect the accused with the place of

 recovery. Admittedly no such document was collected by Pw7 but it

 has come in the testimony of prosecution witnesses that the accused

 persons had taken the police party to their house in pursuance of their

 disclosure and got recovered the equipments and the fake currency 15 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . notes from there. Further the witnesses were cross examined at length

 but they remained consistent and cogent. It is not the case that the

 police party had animus against them or were interested in their false

 implication. Further the accused persons at no stage stated that they

 have no connection with the houses in question. In the case of Karnel

 Singh Vs. State of MP AIR 1995 SC 2472 it was observed : 20. As regards contradictions, Pw4 has stated that Pw10 had also

 gone to the house of the accused persons which fact is not stated by the

 other witnesses. Pw7 has stated that they had gone to the house of the

 accused in two TSRs but the other prosecution witnesses stated that

 they went in the qualis. On considering the totality of facts and

 circumstances, no much value can be pinned on these contradictions. 21. In Bhargavan and others vs. State of Kerala (9) ADSC

 403 it was held, ''normal discrepancy is expected, however, honest and

 truthful a witness may be. This does not corrode the credibility of the 16 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . witness.'' The human memory is vicissitudinous. In Appabhai Vs.

 State of Gujarat AIR 1988 SC 696, it was observed,

 ''The errors due to the lapse of memory may be given
 due allowance.'' It was held in the case of Siddiqua Vs. NCB 137 (2007)

 DLT 500 that a small contradiction here and there could not make the

 testimonies of the witnesses doubtful. Minor discrepancies are very

 natural to occur. The court has to consider the entire evidence as has

 been adduced before it and then come to the conclusion. Minute details

 of incidents with the passage of time go out of memory. It is not as if a

 video tape is replayed on the mental screen. Sometimes the witness

 cannot anticipate the occurrence which so often has an element of

 surprise. 22. In the case of Krishna Mochi & Ors. vs. State of Bihar &

 Ors. 2002(2) CC Cases (SC) 58 it was held that : It is the duty of the

 court to separate grain from chaff - when chaff can be separated from

 grain, it could be open to the court to convict the accused

 notwithstanding that evidence is found difficult to prove guilt of other

 accused persons - falsehood of particular material witness or material

 particular would not seclude it from the beginning to end - the maxim 17 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . Falsus in uno falsus in omnibus' has no application in India and the

 witnesses cannot be branded as liar". 23. For the reasons stated above, I am of the considered opinion

 that both the accused were in possession of counterfeit currency notes

 of various denominations at Palika Bazar who also got recovered some

 more counterfeit currency notes and the equipments / instruments from

 their houses with the help of which they used to prepare / make fake

 currency notes. The prosecution has successfully proved its case

 against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. I therefore hold

 both the accused guilty and convict them of the offence punishable u/s.

 489C and 489D r.w.s. 34 IPC . Announced in open Court 
 on this 31st day of March, 2011

 (Sanjiv Jain) 
 Special Judge NDPS : New Delhi
 Patiala House : New Delhi 18 State Vs. Allauddin and ors. IN THE COURT OF SH. SANJIV JAIN : SPECIAL JUDGE - NDPS PATIALA HOUSE COURTS, NEW DELHI 

 State Vs. Allauddin and ors. PS Connaught Place 
 ID No. 02403R0178422007

ORDER ON SENTENCE 1. Vide separate judgement, both the accused namely Mohd. Wasim and Allauddin have been convicted of the offence punishable

 u/s 489 (C) and 489(D) IPC . 2. Ld. APP has prayed for maximum sentence provided under

 the statute submitting that the convicts were involved in making

 counterfeit currency notes and were also found in possession of the

 counterfeit currency notes intending to use the same as genuine. Ld.

 APP further submitted that the offence is serious in nature and it relates

 to the sovereignty and economy of the country. 3. Ld. Counsel Sh. Kamajeet Singh Maan for the convict

 Allauddin submitted that he has remained in custody for about 16

 months, he is a young man aged 33 years and has a family to support

 comprising of his wife and six children. Except him, there is no one to

 look after their well being. Ld. counsel further submitted that the 19 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . convict does not have criminal antecedents and after release on bail, he

 was not involved in such kind of activities. Ld. counsel further

 submitted that he be given an opportunity to reform and rehabilitate. 4. For convict Mohd. Wasim Ld. counsel submitted that the

 convict is in custody from the date of arrest, he has undergone surgery,

 he is a young man aged 30 years and also has a family to support

 comprising of his wife and four children. Ld. counsel has requested for

 taking lenient view. 5. I have considered the submissions. 6. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India

 Vs. Kuldeep Singh 2004 Vol. 2 SCC 590 held : 7. The incident pertains to the year 2006. The Convict Mohd. Wasim is in custody from the date of arrest. He has criminal 20 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . involvements in such like cases. Making counterfeit currency notes and

 keeping it with an intention to use as genuine is a serious offence. It not

 only affects the society but also has an adverse impact on the economy

 of the country. Although he has a family to support but facts and

 circumstances of the case do not warrant the court to take lenient view

 more particularly when the convict has involvement in number of such

 like cases. 8. Keeping his age, antecedents, facts and circumstances of the

 case I sentence the convict Wasim to undergo rigorous imprisonment

 for a period of five years and to pay fine of Rs.50,000 in default

 thereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of one year for

 the offence punishable u/s 489 (D) IPC. I also sentence him to undergo

 rigorous imprisonment for a period of three years and to pay fine of

 Rs.30,000 in default thereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a

 period of six months for the offence punishable u/s 489 (C) IPC. Both

 the sentences shall run concurrently. 9. The convict Allauddin is aged 33 years. Except this case, he

 does not have any criminal antecedents. After release on bail, he did

 not indulge himself in such like activities. He has remanded in custody

 for about 16 months. Except him, there is no one to look after his

 family. 21 State Vs. Allauddin and ors . 10. Taking into consideration the totality of facts and the

 circumstances, antecedents and family background of the convict, I

 sentence him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of three

 years and to pay fine of Rs.50,000/­ in default thereof to undergo

 simple imprisonment for the period of one year for the offence

 punishable u/s 489 (D) IPC. I also sentence him to undergo rigorous

 imprisonment for a period of two years and to pay fine of Rs.30,000 in

 default thereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six

 months for the offence punishable u/s 489 (C) IPC. 11. Both the sentences shall run concurrently. They be given

 benefit of section 428 Cr.P.C. The case property be confiscated to the

 State after the expiry of period of appeal/revision. File be consigned to Record Room.