The appellant has assailed the judgment and order dated

01.06.2016 and 02.06.2016 passed by the learned Special Judge, 2nd

Court, Suri, Birbhum, in Special Case No. 18 of 2015 corresponding to 2 Special Trial No. 2(7)15 arising out of Bolpur Police Station Case No. 555

of 2014 dated 05.12.2014 thereby convicting the appellant under Sections

342 / 323 / 354B / 506 of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 4 of

POCSO Act and sentencing him to suffer rigorous imprisonment for life

subject to the provision of Section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

and to pay fine of Rs.10,000/- in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment

for six months for the offence as punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO

Act, and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year for the

commission of the offence punishable under Section 342 of the Indian

Penal Code, and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year

for the commission of the offence punishable under Section 323 of the

Indian Penal Code, and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of

seven years and to pay fine of Rs.1,000/- in default to suffer rigorous

imprisonment of six months for the commission of the offence punishable

under Section 354B of the Indian Penal Code and to suffer rigorous

imprisonment for a period of seven years for the commission of the offence

punishable under Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code. All the sentences

to run concurrently. Prosecution case:- 2. The prosecution case as alleged against the appellant is as

follows:- Victim (PW 1) is a Bangladeshi who was pursuing her education

at Vishwa Bharati University, Santiniketan. Appellant was her local

guardian. Five to six months prior to registration of FIR in December, 3 2014 appellant had taken the victim on his motor cycle to his house at

Gurupally, Santiniketan and forcibly raped her. Thereafter he dropped her

at her hostel, Chatri Nibas. At that time appellant showed a knife and

threatened her if she disclosed the incident, she would be killed. PW-1 felt

unwell and lost appetite. On the next morning appellant again contacted

her and threatened to kill her. He compelled her to board his motor cycle

again and he took her to his residence. Then he disrobed her and

recorded her on his mobile phone. He threatened to upload the

objectionable videos on social media and on such threat again raped her.

Thereafter, on a number of days she was raped by the appellant. On

05.09.2014, she was physically assaulted. Unable to bear torture she

informed her friend to rescue her but the appellant drove away her friend

stating that he was her local guardian. Finally, she returned to

Bangladesh. 3. Even in Bangladesh the appellant threatened her with dire

consequences and asked not to disclose the incident to anyone. She was

informed by the principal of the school that the appellant made a

representation alleging that she was indulging in immoral activities. She

was taken to a hotel and blackmailed that her objectionable pictures

would be uploaded. Finally, she lodged complaint at Bolpur Police

Station resulting in Bolpur Police Station Case No. 555 of 2014 dated

05.12.2014. She was medically treated at Bolpur SD Hospital. Her 4 statement was recorded before police. Her mobile phone was seized. Her

birth certificate was seized by police. 4. Her father was examined as PW 2. He deposed he had come to

India on 04.12.2014 when her daughter informed the incident to her. He

accompanied her daughter to Bolpur Police Station and lodged FIR. 5. PW 3 is her mother. She corroborated her daughter with regard to

forcible rape and threats held out by the appellant. 6. PWs 4 and 5 are co-students. They deposed that the appellant was

the victim's local guardian and they had seen the victim in the house of

the appellant. PW 3 stated they also saw victim and appellant quarrelled

with one another. 7. PW 6 is another student. On 4th or 5th December, 2014 appellant

showed him objectionable pictures/videos of the victim on his desktop. He

informed the victim and told her to inform her parents. He also deposed

that victim had been assaulted by the appellant on 05.09.2014. 8. PWs 7, 8 and 9, deposed that victim had been assaulted by the

appellant on 05.09.2014. PW 9 also deposed she told her that she had

been raped by the appellant. 9. PW 10 is the Principal of the school and PW 11 is the Senior

Assistant, Academic Research Section of Vishwa Bharati University,

Santiniketan. They deposed victim was a Bangladeshi national pursuing

her education at the University. Appellant is also a Bangladeshi national. 5 10. PW 13, Somnath Mal, is an employee of Riya Lodge. He deposed a

register was seized by police and he proved the entries on pages 32 to 37

and 57 of the register. 11. PW 14, Dr. Soumitra Sinha, is a medical officer who examined the

victim. 12. PW 15, Dr. Kanailal Das, medical officer examined the victim. 13. PW 16, Sanghamitra Poddar, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,

examined the victim. 14. PWs 18 and 19, Ashoke Sinha Mahapatra and Nandita Saha

Majumder are the investigating officers. 15. PW 1 was a Bangladeshi student at Vishwa Bharati University,

Santiniketan. She deposed five to six months prior to registration of the

case in December, 2014 appellant took advantage of his status as her local

guardian and forcibly raped her. He threatened her with dire

consequences. He had also taken objectionable videos and had

blackmailed her. Out of fear and shame victim kept quiet. However,

torture on her increased and on 05.09.2014 she was physically assaulted.

Arguments at the Bar:- 16. Mr. Ahmed, learned Counsel for the appellant submits no electronic

evidence with regard to the objectionable videos shown to PW 6 was seized

from any electronic device of the appellant or otherwise. He further

submits prosecution case of blackmailing the appellant by threatening to

circulate her nude videos has not been proved. 17. Learned Public Prosecutor submits appellant was her local

guardian and had repeatedly raped her. Owing to her vulnerable status

she was unable to disclose the incident earlier. Appellant had shown the

objectionable videos to PW 6. Analysis and findings:- 18. We have considered the evidence of victim (PW-1) in the light of the

aforesaid submissions. Admittedly at the time of the incident victim was a

minor. She was a student of Vishwa Bharati University and appellant was

her local guardian. While PW-1 deposed he had forcibly raped her, Mr.

Ahmed, would suggest no such incident occurred and even if sexual

intercourse is proved the same was not through coercion or blackmail. PW-

2 was above 17 years and had almost reached the age of consent. Her

version is corroborated by other evidence on record. PW-4 and 5 deposed

victim was seen going to the room of the appellant. This corroborates PW-

1 that she had been taken to the room of the appellant where it is alleged

she was raped. Subsequently on 05.09.2024 victim was assaulted which

is corroborated by PWs 7 to 9. PW 6 deposed in December, 2014 appellant

had shown her objectionable videos to him. He informed this to the victim

and told her to contact her parents. Thereafter victim informed her father

and FIR came to be registered. However, no electronic evidence with

regard to objectionable videos of the victim has been proved during trial.

Prosecution merely relies on PW-6 to prove this fact. In the absence of the

primary evidence i.e. electronic records of the nude videos, we do not 7 consider it prudent to rely on the mere ipse dixit of a co-student (PW 6)

that the appellant had shown nude videos of the victim.

Conclusion:- No such video had been produced in Court. It is possible that appellant

had seduced the victim, a 17 year old girl, and cohabited with her. 22. Keeping in mind the aforesaid factors and as appellant himself was

in his twenties and a student of the University at the time of occurrence, I

am inclined to modify the sentence imposed on him and direct that he

shall suffer rigorous imprisonment for twelve years and pay a fine of

Rs.10,000/- for the offence punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Other sentences imposed upon the appellant shall remain unaltered. The

sentences shall run concurrently. Conclusion:- 23. Appeal is accordingly disposed of. In view of disposal of the appeal

connected application is also disposed of. 24. Appellant is a Bangladeshi national. After serving the sentence,

Correctional Home Authorities shall intimate the appropriate authorities

including the Bangladesh High Commissioner to take steps for his

repatriation to his own country. 25. Copy of the judgment along with Trial Court Records be sent down

to the trial Court at once for necessary compliance. 26. Urgent Photostat Certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be

supplied expeditiously after complying with all necessary legal formalities.

I agree.