My name is raghunandan. I live in mumbai city. I also received a call from a person called karthik sharma who claimed to be from edelweiss tokio life insurance.. This was regarding a policy i had purchased in the year 2012 from an agent of edelweiss tokio life insurance. These people know all your details. He said a substantial amount of commission and bonus and other benefits like accidental benefit is getting transferred to the agent due to an agent code in the policy and unless i act immediately the amount will go into the agents account. When i asked him, what is the way out or solution to this, he explained there is a process and he was transferring my case to one ms. Ruchika gupta from governing body of insurance council who specifically deals with such issues and has also helped resolve them. I i will get a call from ruchika who will guide me through the process. Immediately, i got a call from ruchika gupta (Mobile no. [protected]) who said she is calling from governing body of insurance council and karthik sharma has shared with her my mobile number. She informed me all the bonus, commission and benefits like accident benefits of rs. 1, 60, 412/- which is accruing in my policy will go to the agents account. She said the only way is to remove the agent code from my policy and the only way of doing it is to start another policy in a fund called return government fund. This she said cannot be started directly as all agents will want commission and they will know that you are starting this fund to remove the agent code. She proposed that i start a 7-10 years policy classic asure plan with hdfc life insurance company limited and i pay a one time amount of rs. 50, 000/- which will be returned to me in a years time. She also said that once the application number is processed she will make sure that this will be changed into one year policy and i will get back rs. 50, 000/- at the rate of 12% interest in one year time along with the previous commission, bonus and accidental benefit (Total amount to rs. 1, 60, 412/-) which will be paid to me in three months she asked me to submit documents like pan card, aadhar card, 2 colour photographs, cancelled cheque and a cheque of rs. 50, 000/- in favour of hdfc life insurance company limited. She said a fund transfer letter will be sent to me at my residential address mentioning the amount details and a dummy policy will be issued mentioning log in details like user id password. She also said that she is forwarding my case to one mr praveen kumar bharathvaj from hdfc life insurance and i will get a call from him. Accordingly, i got a call from mr praveen kumar bharathvaj (Mob. No. [protected]) from hdfc life insurance he was really persuasive went on and on about how the agents are going to get the commission and bonus which was accruing in my policy. He also proposed me to follow the same process that ruchika gupta had explained to me earlier and said that i should not share his name or details of the policy with any third person and i should deal directly with him and ruchika gupta only. He was even ready to send his person lalit (Mobile no. [protected]) to collect my documents like aadhar card, pan card, cheque of rs. 50, 000/- in favour of hdfc life insurance company limited and cancelled cheque. I almost fell for their scam even sharing with them my address and bank details. They brainwashed me giving me no time whatsoever to think. They kept calling and spoke with me for more than an hour on this topic. I eventually got suspicious and checked in the internet about gbic and found out that this is a fake call and it is nothing but a scam carrying on for years. I also called gbic today morning to inquire about the same. They confirmed to me nobody of this name ms. Ruchika gupta is working with them and this is nothing but a fake call and advised me to ignore them. I request everyone to be alert and vigilant of such calls. Do not entertain these people. They are all a gang o[censored]nscrupulous people formed to cheat people and loot them of their hard earned money. Thanks & regards. R raghunandan. Mobile no. [protected]. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)