The present case has raised an important question as to whether an

 accused person who on being charged for committing an offence and having

 undergone trial and ultimately been acquitted of all charges by a Court of

 competent jurisdiction, has the right to seek for destruction or erasure or

 redaction of their personal information from the public domain. The other

 important question that arises for consideration is if such a right is traceable to Article 21 of the Constitution of India (“the Constitution”) as a right to privacy

 which is an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty, and hence an

 enforceable right as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court inK.S.Puttaswamy

 and Another v. Union of India Others reported in (2017) 10 SCC 1, and

 whether in light of the same, this Court can set out guidelines in exercise of its

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 2/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution? 2.The background of this case has been set out in the earlier Order

 passed by this Court on 16.07.2021 and it will be beneficial to extract the same

 hereunder: By virtue of this Judgment, the petitioner has been
 acquitted from all charges and the petitioner can no
 more be identified as an accused in the eye of law. 3. Today, the world is literally under the grips of
 social media. The background of a person is assessed by
 everyone by entering into the Google search and
 collecting the information. There is no assurance that
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 3/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 the information that is secured from the Google is
 authentic. However, it creates the first impression and
 depending upon the data that is provided, it will make or
 mar the characteristics of a person in the eyes of the
 Society. Therefore, in today's world everyone is trying to
 portray himself or herself in the best possible way, when
 it comes to social media. This is a new challenge faced
 by the World and already everyone is grappling to deal
 with this harbinger of further complexities awaiting
 mankind. 4. The petitioner is now facing a very peculiar
 problem. Even though the petitioner had been acquitted
 from all the charges, his name gets reflected in the
 Judgment rendered by this Court and unfortunately,
 whoever types the name of the petitioner in Google
 search is able to access the Judgment of this Court. In
 the entire Judgment, the petitioner is identified as an
 accused even though he has been ultimately acquitted
 from all charges. According to the petitioner, this causes
 a serious impact on the reputation of the petitioner in the
 eyes of the Society and therefore, the petitioner wants
 his name to be redacted from the Judgment of this
 Court. 5. It is brought to the notice of this Court that the
 Central Government is in the process of finalising the
 Data Protection Bill 2019 and it is yet to come into

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 4/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 effect. This Act when brought into force will effectively
 protect the data and privacy of a person. 6. Till now, the Legislature has enacted laws
 protecting the identity of victims, who are women and
 children and their names are not reflected in any order
 passed by a Court. Therefore, automatically their names
 get redacted in the order and no one will be able to
 identify the person, who is a victim in a given case. This
 sufficiently protects the person and privacy of the
 person. This right has not been extended to an accused
 person, who ultimately is acquitted from all charges.
 Inspite of an order of acquittal, the name of the accused
 person gets reflected in the order. Therefore, for the first
 time, a person, who was acquitted of all charges has
 approached this Court and sought for redacting his name
 from the Judgment passed by this Court. 7. For the present, this Court can act upon the
 request made by the petitioner only by placing reliance
 upon Article 21 of the Constitution of India. After the
 historic Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Puttasamy Vs. Union of India , the Right of Privacy has
 now been held to be a fundamental right, which is
 traceable to Article 21 of the Constitution of India. If the
 essence of this Judgment is applied to the case on hand,
 obviously even a person, who was accused of
 committing an offence and who has been subsequently

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 5/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 acquitted from all charges will be entitled for redacting
 his name from the order passed by the Court in order to
 protect his Right of Privacy. This Court finds that there
 is a prima facie case made out by the petitioner and he is
 entitled for redacting his name from the Judgment
 passed by this Court in Crl.A. (MD).No.321 of 2011.
 However, since the issue has come up for the first time
 before this Court, this Court wants to hear the learned
 counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents 1 to 3
 and also the Members of the Bar and understand the
 various ramifications before writing a detailed Judgment
 on this issue. 8. It is also brought to the notice of this Court that
 when a similar issue came up before the Delhi High
 Court recently, interim orders were passed directing the
 concerned websites to redact the name of the petitioner
 therein. It is also informed to this Court that a new Right
 called as Right to be Forgotten is sought to be included
 in the list of Rights that are already available under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 9. The learned counsel for the respondents 1 to 3
 shall take necessary instructions and file written
 submissions after serving a copy to the learned counsel
 appearing for the petitioner. 10. Registry is directed to post this case for final
 arguments on 28.07.2021 at 2.15 P.M.. Registry is

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 6/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 further directed to publish this order in the Advocate
 Associations and Bar Associations both in the Principal
 Bench and Madurai Bench. The members of the Bar are
 requested to assist this Court in this issue. 3.The above order was circulated widely to all the Advocate

 Associations and Bar Associations and many advocates positively responded to

 the call made by this Court resulting in a five hour “marathon”hearing on

 28.07.2021. Submissions were made from various perspectives and the

 effective submissions that emanated from a vibrant bar made it an enriching

 experience. This Court with all humility must acknowledge the fact that if not

 for the assistance of the members of the Bar, this Court could not have gained

 insight into the various facets of this issue to come to a fair conclusion. 4.This Court, apart from having the advantage of hearing the learned

 counsel for the petitioner and Mr.K.Samidurai, who appeared on behalf of the

 High Court Registry, also had the advantage of hearing the following counsel,

 either appearing on behalf of the Associations or as Amicus to assist the Court.

 1 Mr.Gandhi Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association.

 2 Mr.V.S.Kanthi Madras High Court Madurai Bench Advocates Association.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 7/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 1 Mr.Gandhi Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association.

 3 Mr.G.Mariappan Madurai Bar Association. 5. Every counsel in unison reverberated the undisputable position of law

 that the right to privacy is protected as an intrinsic part of the right to life and

 personal liberty under Article 21 and as a part of the freedoms guaranteed by

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 8/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 Part III of the Constitution. As a result of the same and by virtue of the

 authoritative pronouncement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in K.S.Puttaswamy 's case referred supra, the right to privacy is a fundamental

 right. It was also submitted that, the present issue involves a right to reputation

 which is inherent to the right to life protected under Article 21 of the

 Constitution. To add strength to this submission, Shakespeare's Othello was

 cited where in Act II, Scene iii, 167: Shakespeare would say “Good name in

 man and woman, dear my lord,Is the immediate jewel of their souls; Who steals

 my purse, steals trash; ‘tis something, nothing; 'Twas mine, ‘tis his, and has

 been slave to thousands: But he that filches from me my good name Robs me

 of that which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed.” 6.It was also impressed upon this Court that under the Code of Criminal

 Procedure , 1973 (“the Code”),the Criminal Court after taking the evidence,

 examining the accused, hearing the prosecution and the defence, considers that

 there is no evidence that the accused committed the offence and finds the

 accused not guilty, records an order of acquittal. The language used under Section 232 , 248 and 255 of the Code, was relied upon to add strength to this

 argument. To explain the phrase “The Judge shall record an order of

 acquittal”, the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dilip Kumar

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 9/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 Sharma And Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (1976) 1 SCC

 560, was relied upon and the relevant portion is extracted hereunder: 7.It was further submitted that a judgment of acquittal gives the accused

 a right of getting an automatic expungement of his name from all records and

 particularly from those which are within public domain. 8.The peculiarity of seeking redaction of the name of an accused persons

 who have been acquitted, has essentially gained significance due to the

 development of science and technology that has virtually brought everything

 under the sky to the fingertips of any person who may have access to the

 internet. The search engines provide information about any person and

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 10/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 whatever information is available in the “Cloud” can be accessed by anyone.

 Therefore, since the orders and judgments are easily available on the public

 domain and can be conveniently accessed by the touch of a button, it is causing

 a serious impact on the reputation and privacy of a person. A person despite

 getting acquitted after facing criminal trial has their name reflected in the order

 or judgment as an accused which identity they want this world to forget. 9. At the outset, this Court came to a prima facie conclusion that an

 accused person is entitled to have their name redacted from the judgments or

 orders and more particularly the ones that are available in the public domain

 and which are accessible through search engines. However, this Court felt that

 there may be ramifications if such a generalised order is passed and directions

 are issued. In other words, this Court felt that there are certain finer aspects

 which have to be considered failing which, it may open up flood gates. The

 need for assistance from the Bar therefore seemed imperative. Initially, this

 Court was inclined towards right to privacy, right of reputation and right to live

 with dignity being read to have a wide scope. The Court felt that it had to come

 to the rescue until the legislature ultimately enacts the Data Protection Act.

 However, on a deeper review of the issue, this Court has taken cognisance of

 the fact that the same is not as simple and straight as it sounded.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 11/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 10.There is no doubt with regard to the fact that the moment Judge

 records an order of acquittal, the identity of a person as an accused is

 completely wiped out. This effect takes place due to the operation of law.

 However, while undertaking the process of redaction, a Court is called upon to

 literally strike of the name of the person from the order or judgment which

 recorded the acquittal of the person from the criminal proceedings. In short, an

 identity which has already been wiped out by operation of law is sought to be

 wiped out at a gross level wherever there is reference to the name in the order

 or judgment. One other question that solicits the attention of this Court is at

 which level of jurisdiction should the process of redaction be done. Is it at the

 trial court stage or at the appellate stage or at the revisional stage and how

 should it be done in cases which have already concluded and become a part of

 record. 11.Mr.Arun Anbumani, who was one of the Amicus, brought to the

 attention of this Court a very important point for consideration. The learned

 counsel rightly argued that this Court is only looking at the end product of a

 criminal litigation, which is the final judgment or an order of acquittal which

 gets published. The learned counsel submitted that the damage to reputation or

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 12/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 dignity starts right from the day a complaint is given, a FIR is registered, an

 accused gets remanded and when they face trial. At every stage, there is a

 publication and while seeking for redaction, none of these publications will be

 touched. The learned counsel further submitted that it is only an order or

 judgment of acquittal which actually saves the honour of a person whose name

 has already been tarnished due to various publications that take place and

 which are also readily available on the search engines. 12.There is a lot of force in this submission made by Mr.Arun

 Anbumani. This country does not have a system like the one that is available

 in United States, where through a Court order there can be complete

 destruction of the entire records of an accused person, who is acquitted. Such

 person can start their life tabula rasa and lead a normal life with the rights

 provided by the Constitution, including the right to fill nil in the relevant

 employment application column for criminal records. In other words, the entire

 personal information gets expunged/destroyed and sealed from the public

 domain. If the system is looking for identifying an effective right for a person

 acquitted in a criminal proceeding, it must be a consummate relief and there is

 no use in just erasing the name in a final judgment or order. In fact, it may

 prove to be counterproductive for a person to get their name erased from a

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 13/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 judgment or order to prove their innocence, where there are other materials

 available in public domain, which pertains to damning their name when the

 criminal proceedings actually commenced. 13.There is only one enactment which provides for the complete

 destruction of the entire criminal record which ultimately removes the person

 from their identity as an accused person. The said enactment is “The Juvenile

 Justice [Care and Protection of Children] Act, 2015” and Rules thereunder, and

 the same are extracted hereunder: (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
 the victim shall not be denied access to their case record,
 orders and relevant papers. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 15/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 The Rule on destruction of records is traceable to
 Section 110(1)(xiii)

 Rule 14 - Destruction of records – The records of
 conviction in respect of a child in conflict with law shall
 be kept in safe custody till the expiry of the period of
 appeal or for a period of seven years, and no longer, and
 thereafter be destroyed by the Person-in-charge or Board
 or Children's Court, as the case may be: 14.There is yet another issue with far reaching importance that arises in

 the present case that directly impacts one of the Central and universally

 acclaimed tenets of administration of justice viz., the principle of open justice. 15. The rationale for the indispensable principle that justice must be

 done in the open is best captured in the words of Jeremy Bentham who

 observed

 “In the darkness of secrecy sinister interest, and evil in every

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 16/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 shape, have full swing. Only in proportion as publicity has place can
 any of the checks applicable to judicial injustice operate. Where there is
 no publicity there is no justice. Publicity is the very soul of justice. It is
 the keenest spur to exertion, and surest of all guards against improbity.
 It keeps the Judge himself while trying under trial (in the sense that) the
 security of securities is publicity”

 Well over a century ago, this principle was firmly cemented as a fundamental

 facet of the system of administration of justice by the House of Lords in Scott v

 Scott [1913 A.C 417]. Viscount Haldane pointed out that the general principle

 is that Courts must administer justice in public. There were, however, some

 exceptions like matrimonial cases, cases relating to minors etc. which required

 a departure from this principle. The rationale for the exceptions were premised

 on a more fundamental principle that the chief object of courts of justice must

 be to do justice between parties. Therefore, in cases like minors and

 matrimonial disputes, where publicity may be harmful to the subject matter of

 the lis, the principle of open justice must yield to the still more paramount duty

 to do justice. After all, publicity is only a means to an end. 16.In R (Guardian News and Media Ltd) v City of Westminster

 Magistrates’ Court ( Article 19 intervening) [2013 QB 618], Lord Toulson

 offered the rule of law justification in support of the principle of open justice.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 17/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 The learned judge observed: 17. In India the principle of open justice has been identified as a central

 tenet of the rule of law. The principle, however, is not monolithic, and

 encompasses various precepts. In Swapnil Tripathi v. the Supreme Court of

 India (2018 10 SCC 639), D.Y Chandrachud, J identified the following

 elements: 18.The existence of the right to privacy as an enforceable fundamental

 right under Part III of the Constitution is no longer open to doubt in view of the

 authoritative pronouncement of a 9-judgeBench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court

 in K.S Puttaswamy’s Case, referred supra. The Supreme Court overruled its

 earlier decision in M.P Sharma v Satish Chandra [AIR 1954 SC 300] and the

 majority view in Kharak Singh v State of Uttar Pradesh [AIR 1963 SC 1295],

 and concluded as under: 19. While there can be no dispute that a fundamental right of privacy

 exists at a general level in the light of the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court in K.S Puttaswamy’s case, the question that has now cropped up is

 whether such a right exists in the context of judgments and orders of a Court. In R. Rajagopal v State of Tamil Nadu (1994 6 SCC 632), the Hon’ble

 Supreme Court held as under: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 20/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 (2) The rule aforesaid is subject to the exception,
 that any publication concerning the aforesaid aspects
 becomes unobjectionable if such publication is based
 upon public records including court records. This is for
 the reason that once a matter becomes a matter of public
 record, the right to privacy no longer subsists and it
 becomes a legitimate subject for comment by press and
 media among others. We are, however, of the opinion
 that in the interests of decency [ Article 19(2)] an
 exception must be carved out to this rule, viz., a female
 who is the victim of a sexual assault, kidnap, abduction
 or a like offence should not further be subjected to the
 indignity of her name and the incident being publicised
 in press/media. (3) There is yet another exception to the rule in (1)
 above — indeed, this is not an exception but an
 independent rule. In the case of public officials, it is
 obvious, right to privacy, or for that matter, the remedy of
 action for damages is simply not available with respect to
 their acts and conduct relevant to the discharge of their
 official duties. This is so even where the publication is
 based upon facts and statements which are not true, unless
 the official establishes that the publication was made (by
 the defendant) with reckless disregard for truth. In such a
 case, it would be enough for the defendant (member of the
 press or media) to prove that he acted after a reasonable
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 21/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 verification of the facts; it is not necessary for him to
 prove that what he has written is true. Of course, where
 the publication is proved to be false and actuated by
 malice or personal animosity, the defendant would have
 no defence and would be liable for damages. It is equally
 obvious that in matters not relevant to the discharge of his
 duties, the public official enjoys the same protection as
 any other citizen, as explained in (1) and (2) above. It
 needs no reiteration that judiciary, which is protected by
 the power to punish for contempt of court and Parliament
 and legislatures protected as their privileges are by Articles 105 and 104 respectively of the Constitution of
 India, represent exceptions to this rule. (4) So far as the Government, local authority and
 other organs and institutions exercising governmental
 power are concerned, they cannot maintain a suit for
 damages for defaming them. (5) Rules 3 and 4 do not, however, mean that Official Secrets Act, 1923 , or any similar enactment or
 provision having the force of law does not bind the press
 or media. (6) There is no law empowering the State or its
 officials to prohibit, or to impose a prior restraint upon the
 press/media.”

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 22/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 20.The decision in R.Rajagopal has been affirmed by the 9-judge bench

 in K.S Puttaswamy’s case. In fact, the opinions of D.Y Chandrachud, J (for

 himself and Khehar, C.J, Agrawal and Nazeer, JJ) and R.F Nariman, J expressly

 cite and approve the aforesaid principles from R.Rajagopal’s case. It must,

 therefore, follow that judgments of courts being public records, the right to

 privacy cannot subsist. The concurring judgment of S.K Kaul, J also recognizes

 this position. At paragraph 636, the learned judge took note of what has now

 come to be termed as “the right to be forgotten” and has opined thus: 21.There can be no two opinions that the administration of justice is a

 task carried out in public interest. In the context of judgments of Courts, Justice

 Mathew felicitously points out in Gurdit Singh v. State of Punjab , (1974) 2

 SCC 260: 22.It would, therefore, follow that the “right to be forgotten” cannot exist

 in the sphere of administration of justice particularly in the context of

 judgments delivered by Courts. An exception to the aforesaid position can be

 seen in cases of victims of rape and other sexual offences where the Supreme

 Court itself has directed that the identity of victims cannot be disclosed [See

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 24/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 Nipun Saxena v Union of India , 2019 2 SCC 703]. Statutory prohibitions

 against the disclosure of the identity of the victim and witnesses are also found

 in provisions like Section 228-A IPC, Section 327(3) Cr.P.C, Section 23 of the

 POCSO Act, etc. Thus, unless a case falls within the ambit of the exceptions,

 the general principle must govern. 23. It may also be necessary to take note of the powers of the High Court

 under Article 226 for issuing suitable directions for non-disclosure during the

 course of trial if there is a real and substantial risk that disclosure would

 imperil fair trial. In such cases the High Court can pass “postponement orders”

 deferring publication and that too only for a short period during the trial. The

 principles in this regard are clear from the decision of the Constitution Bench

 of the Supreme Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd. v. SEBI ,

 (2012) 10 SCC 603: 24.The crux of the petitioner’s case is that the continued reflection of his

 name as an accused in the judgment of this Court in Cr.A (MD) 321 of 2011 is

 a violation of his right to privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution or more

 specifically, its subset, the right to be forgotten. However, it is a settled position

 of law that a judicial order of a Court cannot violate fundamental rights under

 Part III of the Constitution. In Rupa Ashok Hurra v. Ashok Hurra , (2002) 4

 SCC 388, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court observed as under: 25.There is yet another hurdle in the path of the petitioner. The direction

 sought by the petitioner is to redact his name from an order passed by a co-

 ordinate bench of this Court in a regular criminal appeal. In effect, the prayer is

 that a writ of mandamus must be issued against a judgment and order passed by

 this Court in exercise of its criminal appellate jurisdiction to alter the

 description of the petitioner in the cause title and the body of the judgment. In Naresh Sridhar Mirajkar v State of Maharashtra (AIR 1967 SC 1), it was

 conclusively held that a writ does not lie to an order of a Court placed on an

 equal footing in the matter of jurisdiction. Justice Hidayatullah observed thus: 26. The position was put beyond any pale of controversy in Rupa Ashok

 Hurra v. Ashok Hurra , (2002) 4 SCC 388, wherein it was observed as follows: “Having carefully examined the historical
 background and the very nature of writ jurisdiction, which
 is a supervisory jurisdiction over inferior courts/tribunals,
 in our view, on principle a writ of certiorari cannot be
 issued to coordinate courts and a fortiori to superior
 courts. Thus, it follows that a High Court cannot issue a
 writ to another High Court, nor can one Bench of a High
 Court issue a writ to a different Bench of the same High
 Court; much less can writ jurisdiction of a High Court be
 invoked to seek issuance of a writ of certiorari to the
 Supreme Court.” 27.The jurisdiction and powers of the Madras High Court flowing from

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 28/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 the Letters Patent of 1865 is channelled through different benches for the

 purposes of administrative convenience and orderly conduct of business. Thus,

 any judicial order, irrespective of the nature of jurisdiction and the strength of

 the Bench, is, in effect, the order of the High Court as one institution. The

 position is made clear by Clause 36 of the Letters Patent which runs as follows: 28.The High Court is a Court of Record under Article 215 of the

 Constitution. As a superior Court of Record, it is entitled to preserve the

 original record in perpetuity. Thus, the sanctity of an original record cannot be

 altered or otherwise dealt with except in a manner prescribed by law. No

 judgment of any Court has been cited to show that the prerogative power of

 this Court under Article 226 extends to direct alteration of its own records. In

 fact, there exists a decision to the contrary in S. Tamilvanan v The State of

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 30/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 Tamil Nadu [1996 1 LW 577] where a judicial officer filed a writ petition and

 sought expunging of remarks from a judgment rendered by a single judge of

 this Court. The Division Bench took note of the judgment of the Hon’ble

 Supreme Court in Naresh Mirajkar, cited supra, and ultimately concluded as

 under: 29.During the course of deliberation, the attention of this Court was

 drawn to various foreign judgments and also the relevant regulations and

 enactments of those countries which specifically provides for expunction,

 expungement, redaction or destruction of criminal records. 30. The Court is not unmindful of the decision of the Court of Justice for
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 31/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 the European Union (CJEU) in Google Spain SL v Agencia Española de

 Protección de Datos (AEPD) (Case C-131/12) [2014] QB 1022 where Google

 was directed to de-list information complained against from its servers. What

 cannot be lost sight of is the fact that there exists a General Data Protection

 Regulation (GDPR) for all European Union member states which has come into

 effect from 27th April 2016. Article 17 of this Regulation is titled “Right to

 erasure” and contains objective criteria which would guide a decision in

 erasure. No such rule or regulation exists in India for the present. In the

 absence of any statutory backing this Court cannot undertake the exercise of

 issuing directions when no judicially manageable standards exist in the first

 place. 31.There must be a proper policy formulated in this regard by means of

 specific rules. In other words, some basic criteria or parameters must be fixed,

 failing which, such an exercise will lead to utter confusion. This Court must

 take judicial notice of the fact that the criminal justice system that is prevalent

 in this country is far from satisfactory. In various cases involving heinous

 crimes, this Court helplessly passes orders and judgments of acquittal due to

 slipshod investigation, dishonest witnesses and lack of an effective witness

 protection system. This Court honestly feels that our criminal justice system is
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 32/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 yet to reach such standards where courts can venture to pass orders for

 redaction of name of an accused person on certain objective criteria prescribed

 by rules or regulations. It will be more appropriate to await the enactment of

 the Data Protection Act and Rules thereunder, which may provide an objective

 criterion while dealing with the plea of redaction of names of accused persons

 who are acquitted from criminal proceedings. If such uniform standards are

 not followed across the country, the constitutional courts will be riding an

 unruly horse which will prove to be counterproductive to the existing system. 32.In view of the above discussion, this Court is not inclined to grant the

 relief sought for in the writ petition and accordingly, the writ petition stands

 dismissed. Before drawing the curtains, this Court will be failing in its duty if

 it does not once again acknowledge the assistance rendered by the Bar in

 deciding this sensitive and knotty issue. No costs. Consequently, the connected

 miscellaneous petition is closed. 03.08.2021
 Internet: Yes
 Index : Yes
 KP/PJL

 Note : In view of the present lock down owing to
 COVID-19 pandemic, a web copy of the order may

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 33/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 be utilized for official purposes, but, ensuring that the
 copy of the order that is presented is the correct copy,
 shall be the responsibility of the advocate/litigant
 concerned. To 1.The Registrar General,
 Madras High Court,
 Chennai. 2.The Additional Registrar General,
 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court,
 Madurai. 3.The Registrar (IT-statistics),
 Madurai Bench of Madras High Court,
 Madurai. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 34/36 W.P(MD).No.12015 of 2021 N. ANAND VENKATESH,. J. KP/PJL

 Order made in W.P.(MD)No.12015 of 2021 Delivered on: 03.08.2021

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 35/36