This petition is under Section 438 of the Criminal

Procedure Code seeking grant of anticipatory bail in Crime

No.44/2020 registered by the respondent - Police for the

offences punishable under Sections 354D , 354B , 506 , 376 , 447 and 354 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66C and 66E of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 2. The statement of the complainant before the

Police is that the accused is a resident of Bandra, Mumbai

and was in a live in relationship with the complainant since

last two months. Due to his harassment, the complainant

is said to have shifted to Bengaluru and stopped all contact 3 with him. She claimed that she was transferred to

Bengaluru from Mumbai on 28.12.2019 and was employed

in a Company at Bengaluru. She alleged that on

13.02.2020 at around 9 p.m., the accused barged into her

house, forcibly snatched her personal phone and when she

resisted, she was beaten brutally and she was forced to

remove her clothes and when she screamed for help, he

forcibly closed her mouth and attempted to indulge in an

intercourse and thereafter discharged on her face. She

claimed that her cry for help solicited presence of the

landlord who was staying on the second floor of the same

building. She alleged that the accused convinced the

landlord that the complainant was doing some wrong and

despite her pleas, the landlord did not help her. She

alleged that the accused misused her personal data and

leaked her private pictures, chats and personal information

to various people. The complainant further alleged that

the accused also transferred a sum of Rs.61,000/- from

her bank account to the account of the accused through

mobile banking app. She alleged that on 14.02.2020, she 4 complained to the Police who received her complaint and

also made her to speak to the accused. Thereafter, she

seemed to have lodged a complaint on 21.02.2020 and the

Police have registered Crime No.44/2020 for the offences

mentioned supra. 3. The accused would contend that he was in a

relationship with the complainant and that he was innocent

of the allegations made against him. He would further

contend that assuming the statements made by the

complainant before the Police to be true yet an offence

punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code is

not made out. The accused undertakes to appear before

the Investigating Officer on every day until the

investigation is completed and also would undertake to

cooperate with the investigation of the crime. 4. It is seen from the complaint that the alleged

offence took place on 13.02.2020 and though the

complainant claimed that she had lodged a complaint on

14.02.2020, the complaint actually was filed on 5 21.02.2020 as is evident from the records. The

complainant has failed to explain the delay in lodging the

complaint. The complainant alleged that the accused

attempted to have sexual intercourse with her. The

medical records furnished by the High Court Government

Pleader did not disclose any recent incident of sexual

intercourse. It also did not disclose any seminal stain. The

petitioner placed on record WhatsApp chat between the

petitioner and the complainant and a few photographs

which indicate the intimate relationship. However, this in

itself cannot be set up as a defense, against a woman who

claims to have cut off all relationship with the petitioner. 5. In that view of the matter, the accused is

entitled to anticipatory bail subject however to the

conditions to be imposed by this Court. 6. Hence, this Petition is allowed. The petitioner

shall be released on bail in the event of his arrest in Crime

No.44/2020 registered by Pulakeshinagar Police Station,

Bengaluru City, pending trial before the I Additional Chief 6 Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Bengaluru, subject to the

following conditions: In view of disposal of this petition, I.A. No.1/2020

for interim bail does not survive for consideration and the

same stands rejected. Sd/- JUDGE

sma