Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, on February 10, revealed that 62 banks had onboarded onto the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) by December 31, 2025.

Additionally, he said that the Central Government was planning to onboard all banking and financial institutions, including cooperative banks, onto the I4C portal before December 2026. For context, Shah delivered the keynote address at the National Conference on “Tackling Cyber-Enabled Frauds & Dismantling the Ecosystem” in the national capital.

During his address, Shah also disclosed that the I4C reporting portal had been accessed over 230 million times from January 2020 and December 2025. He further remarked that over 8.2 million cybercrime-related complaints had been registered on the I4C portal as of November 30, 2025. Of these, 184,000 complaints were converted into First Information Reports (FIRs), with a large number of grievances effectively resolved.

Shah also inaugurated the new Cybercrime Branch of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), alongside launching the State Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (S4C) dashboard on the I4C portal.

The I4C is a joint initiative of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to deal with the menace of cybercrime in India. The portal focuses on improving coordination between various law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and stakeholders to tackle issues related to cybercrime.

The Union Finance Ministry reportedly added the I4C to the list of agencies that share information with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) in April 2025.

The I4C portal also introduced the e-Zero FIR initiative in May 2025. This means that the I4C system automatically converts cybercrime and fraud complaints reported by victims on either the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (NCRP) or the 1930 helpline into e-Zero FIRs.

Furthermore, last year, the I4C instructed social media platforms to integrate with the Sahyog Portal for reporting child sexual abuse material (CSAM). The I4C created the Sahyog Portal to automate the process of sending takedown requests to social media platforms under Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

At the conference, Shah also said that all private, public, and cooperative banks should adopt the Mule Account Hunter software. He added that it would be impossible to provide full protection to customers until all banks completely cleaned their accounts using this software.

Shah was referring to the MuleHunter.AI initiative that the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) Innovation Hub announced in December 2024. It is an artificial intelligence (AI)-driven model that helps banks detect and curb mule accounts, which fraudsters use to funnel, launder, or transfer proceeds of financial fraud.

Traditional fraud detection systems rely on static models that flag accounts based on predetermined criteria. However, such systems often generate high false positives and require lengthy manual checks, consequently slowing responses and leaving many fraudulent accounts undetected for long periods.

In contrast, MuleHunter.AI analyses transaction and account activity patterns across various banks to identify accounts likely used as “mules” in financial fraud, rather than relying on fixed, static rules.

An RTI response that MediaNama received from the central bank revealed that 23 banks had implemented MuleHunter.AI as of December 10, 2025.

However, the RBI said it cannot provide data on the number of mule accounts identified or acted upon through MuleHunter.AI. This is because the RBI holds that information in a fiduciary capacity with banks, and disclosure would harm competitive interests under the RTI Act, 2005.

The central bank also informed us that it does not have information about formal coordination with LEAs like the I4C specifically for MuleHunter.AI. Nor does it possess details about internal circulars, guidelines, or advisories sent to banks or payment aggregators regarding the initiative.

Shah also remarked that the Central Government had successfully safeguarded Rs 8,189 crore against a total estimated cyber fraud of Rs 20,000 crore. Further, he revealed that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had cancelled more than 1.2 million suspicious SIM cards and blocked the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers of more than 300,000 mobile phones.

The Union Home Minister’s remarks come at a time when the Supreme Court has also cracked down on perpetrators involved in digital arrest scams across the country. The apex court has asked banks to actively alert customers when they make unusually large withdrawals, emphasising that financial institutions must not remain passive while “digital arrest” scams drain victims of their savings.

The court said that transactions in which pensioners withdraw unusually high amounts of money should immediately trigger an alert. Importantly, Chief Justice of India (CJI) Surya Kant questioned why banking systems were unable to detect obvious anomalies. He asked, “Why did your AI-operated tools in the bank did not deem it fit to alarm him (a bank customer) that this transaction is suspicious?”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event