MediaNama’s take: In recent quarters, the travel tech company has reported a steep decline in revenue & profits and witnessed massive stake sales by its cofounders and promoters, the Pitti brothers.

This has significantly eroded the confidence of its 1.089 million public shareholders , who have seen a relentless decline in EaseMyTrip’s stock price over the last 18 months.

The sudden resignation of Prashant Pitti, cofounder of EaseMyTrip, as managing director of the company last week has added to investor woes. It also raises the question of whether EaseMyTrip, India’s first online travel aggregator to walk the IPO path, has lost its course.

Prashant Pitti announced his resignation as Managing Director (MD) of EaseMyTrip, effective immediately, in a lette r to the board on August 29.

Explaining the rationale behind his decision, Prashant said he wanted to devote more time to “mentoring young startups, pursuing new business ventures, and working on urban traffic solutions and other public-good initiatives …”

Prashant further stated that he would continue to remain a promoter in the online travel aggregator (OTA) platform and that “no promoter will be selling stock of the company” — in what appeared to be an attempt to assuage stakeholders’ fears.

EaseMyTrip also reiterated its cofounder’s commitment , saying that “no further promoter shares will be sold.”

It is worth noting that EaseMyTrip has experienced a significant decline in promoter shareholding over the past year. As of the quarter ended June 30, 2024 (Q1 FY25), the Pitti brothers, Nishant Pitti, Prashant Pitti, and Rikant Pittie — owned a cumulative 64.30% stake in the company. By June 2025, promoter shareholding had come down to 47.72% .

This is the second major leadership restructuring at EaseMyTrip this year. On January 1, Nishant Pitti resigned as the company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), citing personal reasons, with Rikant Pittie, the company’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), replacing him .

The leadership changes come at a time when EaseMyTrip is facing heightened competition in the OTA space from the likes of MakeMyTrip, Flipkart-backed Cleartrip, ixigo, and Yatra.

A recent VIDEC report suggested that EaseMyTrip’s OTA gross booking share fell to 7.1% in FY24 from 8.2% in the previous fiscal year. On the other hand, MakeMyTrip maintained its dominance with a 55.3% gross booking share in FY24, followed by Cleartrip at 8.7% and ixigo at 8.6%.

Adding to its woes, EaseMyTrip saw a significant decline in revenue from its core air ticketing business to Rs 391.3 crore in FY25, down over 19% from Rs 484.9 crore a year ago.

Worse, its consolidated net profit slumped almost 99% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs 0.4 crore in April–June 2025 (Q1 FY26) from Rs 33.9 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. The company attributed the decline in its bottom line to investments in high-margin and growth areas.

Other business segments, such as hotel packages and bus and train booking verticals, also reported either operating losses or a drop in performance despite higher revenue in Q1 FY26 . For instance, the company’s hotel packages segment swung to a loss of approximately Rs 0.6 crore in Q1 FY26, compared to a profit of around Rs 5.1 crore in Q1 FY25.

By contrast, EaseMyTrip’s rival ixigo reported an over 39% YoY jump in its operating revenue to Rs 914.2 crore in FY25, with revenue from its flight passenger segment rising 70% YoY to Rs 253 crore. Notably, ixigo earns a majority of its revenue from its train ticketing vertical, which grew more than 23% YoY to Rs 456.9 crore in FY25.

With platforms like ixigo eating into EaseMyTrip’s market share in the flight ticketing segment, the company’s push to diversify beyond travel — into EV bus manufacturing , venture funds, and medical tourism has further pushed investors on edge.

The weakening financial performance has resulted in a sharp decline in the company’s share price. On a year-to-date basis, the stock of Ease Trip Planners has plunged nearly 47%. From its 2021 listing price of Rs 206, the stock has declined almost 96% to date, as per data available on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE).

On top of financial troubles, reputational risks have further exacerbated shareholders’ concerns. In April this year , the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided one of EaseMyTrip’s offices as well as the residence of cofounder Nishant Pitti in connection with the Mahadev online betting app case and seized Rs 7 lakh.

Although Nishant and the company have denied any wrongdoing and insisted there is no link to the case, the allegations have dented the brand’s image at a time when credibility already hangs by a thread.

“A shift in focus away from the core online travel ticketing business towards other unrelated ventures may alienate its corporate clients and could make it difficult for EaseMyTrip to maintain its market share in the highly-competitive OTA market,” an industry analyst speaking to MediaNama said, on the condition of anonymity.

In January 2024, the company established a new subsidiary, EaseMyTrip Insurance Broker Private Limited, marking its entry into India’s crowded insurance sector.

Last September , EaseMyTrip entered the medical tourism market by acquiring 49% of Dubai-based Pflege Home Healthcare and 30% of Rollins International for a combined total of Rs 90 crore.

In Q1 FY26, EaseMyTrip also announced plans for several acquisitions in the international hospitality space, including:

While these diversification bets may yield results in the long term, for now they remain speculative at best due to a lack of clarity over how much revenue these “new initiatives” are generating.

However, Nishant Pitti, who will be taking over as Chairman and MD of the company following shareholders’ approval, is confident of the company’s future growth prospects.

“Stepping into the role of chairman cum managing Director (CMD) gives me an opportunity to work even more closely with our people to unlock new opportunities, scale new heights, and continue building a travel-tech brand that India can be proud of,” said Nishant in a statement .

Also read:

Note: The headline was edited for clarity based on editorial inputs on 02/09/2025 at 4:36 pm.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event