2025:HHC:9049

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MMO No. 860 of 2023
 Reserved on: 25.03.2025
 Date of Decision: 04.04.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No.

 For the Petitioners : Mr. Divya Raj Singh, Advocate.
 For Respondent No.1 : Mr. Ajit Sharma, Deputy Advocate
 General. For respondent No.2 : Mr. Sunil Kumar Advocate. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioners have filed the present petition for

 quashing FIR No. 32/2022, dated 07.06.2022, registered at Police

 Station, Ram Shahar District, Solan HP, for the commission of

 offences punishable under Sections 498A and 323, read with section 34 of Indian Penal Code ( IPC ). The charge sheet titled State versus Jai Pal pending before learned Additional Chief 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2025:HHC:9049

Judicial Magistrate Nalagarh and all the consequential

proceedings arising out of the FIR. (The parties shall hereinafter

be referred to in the same manner as they were arrayed before

the learned Trial Court for convenience.) 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

petition are that the informant, Divya Kumari, made a complaint

to the police asserting that she was married to the petitioner,

Jaipal, on 3rd May 2022. The petitioners started harassing her

soon after her marriage. She made a complaint to the Police

Station Ram Shahar on 13th May, and the matter was referred to

the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO), who effected a

compromise between the parties on 18th May. However, the

petitioners continued to harass the informant and compelled her

to bring a dowry. Her father-in-law, Sohan Lal, her mother-in- law, Jayati and her husband, Jaipal, beat her on the 3 rd of June. Neighbours heard her cries and informed her father about the

beatings. He reported the matter to the police. The petitioners

threatened to kill the informant. Her husband took her to the

house of his relative at Solan. No food was provided to her, and

she was not allowed to talk to her parents. Her father went to her

matrimonial home to take her to her parental home on the 6 th of 3 2025:HHC:9049

June, but she was not allowed to leave her matrimonial home. When the informant went to her parental home with her father,

her money and ornaments were kept by the petitioner. She told

her parents about her harassment and beating. The police

registered the FIR and conducted the investigation. They found

that the informant's name and her marriage were not registered

in the Panchayat. A copy of the compromise effected between

the parties was also taken into possession. It was found that the

petitioners had agreed to maintain the informant properly,

however, they failed to honour their promise. The police

recorded the statements of the witnesses and, after the

completion of the investigation, filed a chargesheet against the

petitioners for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 498A abd 323 read with Section 34 of the IPC. 3. Being aggrieved from the registration of the FIR and

the filing of the charge sheet before the learned Trial Court, the

petitioners have filed the present petition for quashing the FIR

and consequential proceedings arising out of it. It has been

asserted that the informant started quarrelling with the

petitioners soon after her marriage on one pretext or another. She proclaimed that her husband was not of her choice, and she 4 2025:HHC:9049

wanted to marry someone else with whom she had friendly

relations. She asked her husband to divorce her and pay a

substantial amount to her so that she could marry her friend. She threatened the petitioners that they would suffer if her

demands were not met. The petitioners disclosed the entire

episode to the informant's father on 12th May 2022. He also tried

to convince the informant, however, she filed a false complaint

against the petitioners on 13th May 2022. The matter was

compromised on 18th May 2022. The informant remained calm

for 2-3 days but started hurling abuses at the petitioners and

causing embarrassment to them. Her husband took her to Solan

so that she could change herself but in vain. The informant made

a false story about the demand for a dowry. Mother-in-law of

the informant, her daughter and her maternal grandchildren

were kidnapped by the informant with the help of other persons. They were given merciless beatings. An FIR was registered

against the informant and other persons. Petitioner No. 1 was

also beaten by his father-in-law, and another FIR was registered

regarding this matter. The FIR registered by the informant is an

abuse of the process of law to compel the petitioners to agree to

her illegal demands. Vague allegations have been made against 5 2025:HHC:9049

the petitioners. This is also apparent from the subsequent events

for which separate FIRs were registered against the informant

and her father. Therefore, it was prayed that the present petition

be allowed and the FIR and the consequential proceedings be

quashed. 4. I have heard Mr. Divya Raj Singh, learned Counsel for

the petitioners, Mr. Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate

General for the respondent No. 1/State and Mr Sunil Kumar. learned Counsel for respondent No. 2/informant and have gone

through the records carefully. 5. The law relating to quashing of FIR was explained by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in B.N. John v. State of U.P. , 2025 SCC

OnLine SC 7 as under: - In clause (1) it has been mentioned that where the
allegations made in the first information report or the
complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and
accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute
any offence or make out a case against the accused, then
the FIR or the complaint can be quashed. As per clause (4), where the allegations in the FIR do not
constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-
cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a
police officer without an order dated by the Magistrate as
contemplated under Section 155 (2) of the CrPC, and in
such a situation, the FIR can be quashed. Similarly, as provided under clause (6), if there is an
express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of
the CrPC or the concerned Act under which the criminal
proceedings are instituted, such proceedings can be
quashed." 2025:HHC:9049 6. This position was reiterated in Ajay Malik v. State of

Uttarakhand , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 185, wherein it was observed: 7. The present petition is to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 8. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: "9. To lodge a proper complaint, the mere mention of the
 sections and the language of those sections is not the be-all
 and end-all of the matter. What is required to be brought to
 the notice of the court is the particulars of the offence
 committed by each and every accused and the role played by
 each and every accused in committing that offence. 10. When we see the complaint, the complaint is sadly
 vague. It does not show as to which accused has
 committed what offence, and what is the exact role
 played by these appellants in the commission of the
 offence. There could be said something against Rajesh, as
 the allegations are made against him more precisely, but
 he is no more and has already expired. Under such
 circumstances, it would be an abuse of the process of law
 to allow the prosecution to continue against the aged
 parents of Rajesh, the present appellants herein, on the
 basis of a vague and general complaint which is silent
 about the precise acts of the appellants." (Emphasis
 supplied) 9. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

was observed: 10. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024

SCC OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face

criminal allegations without any specific instance of criminal

misconduct amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It

was observed: 11. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 12. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P., 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomena of false implication by general omnibus allegation

in the case of matrimonial dispute are not unknown to the Court. When the allegations are general and omnibus, the prosecution

should not be continued. It was observed: - 498A and others were vague and general, lacking any
specific role and particulars. The court proceeded to
quash the FIR against the accused persons and noted that
such a situation if left unchecked, would result in the
abuse of the process of law. xxxx 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we find
that the High Court, in this case, has failed to exercise due
care and has mechanically permitted the criminal
proceedings to continue despite specifically finding that
the allegations are general and omnibus in nature. The
Appellants herein approached the High Court on inter
alia grounds that the proceedings were re-initiated on
vexatious grounds and even highlighted the
commencement of divorce proceedings by Respondent
No. 2. In these peculiar circumstances, the High Court had
a duty to consider the allegations with great care and
circumspection so as to protect against the danger of
unjust prosecution." 2025:HHC:9049 13. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 2621 that general and vague allegations of cruelty

made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants have been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the 18 2025:HHC:9049

 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain
 the role played by each accused in furtherance of
 the offence. The allegations are, therefore, general
 and omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been
 made out on account of small skirmishes...
 However, as far as the appellants are concerned, the
 allegations made against them, being general and
 omnibus, do not warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced
 to go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general
 and omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a
 situation where the relatives of the complainant's
 husband are forced to undergo trial. It has been
 highlighted by this Court in varied instances that a
 criminal trial leading to an eventual acquittal also
 inflicts severe scars upon the accused, and such an
 exercise must, therefore, be discouraged." 14. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682,

wherein it was observed: 15. This position was reiterated in Geddam Jhansi v. State

of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263, wherein it was observed: stitute offences punishable under the Penal Code or any
other penal statute are alleged or attributed to the ac-
cused and a prima facie case is made out. It applies with
equal force when criminal laws are invoked in domestic
disputes. Criminalising domestic disputes without spe-
cific allegations and credible materials to support the
same may have disastrous consequences for the institu-
tion of family, which is built on the premise of love, af-
fection, cordiality and mutual trust. The institution of
family constitutes the core of human society. Domestic
relationships, such as those between family members, are
guided by deeply ingrained social values and cultural ex-
pectations. These relationships are often viewed as sa-
cred, demanding a higher level of respect, commitment,
and emotional investment compared to other social or
professional associations. For the aforesaid reason, the
preservation of family relationships has always been em-
phasised. Thus, when family relationships are sought to
be brought within the ambit of criminal proceedings,
rupturing the family bond, courts should be circumspect
and judicious and should allow invocation of the criminal
process only when there are specific allegations with sup-
porting materials which clearly constitute criminal of-
fences. 32. We have to keep in mind that in the context of matri-
monial disputes, emotions run high, and as such in the
complaints filed alleging harassment or domestic vio-
lence, there may be a tendency to implicate other mem-
bers of the family who do not come to the rescue of the
complainant or remain mute spectators to any alleged in-
cident of harassment, which in our view cannot by itself
constitute a criminal act without there being specific acts
attributed to them. Further, when tempers run high and
relationships turn bitter, there is also a propensity to ex-
aggerate the allegations, which does not necessarily 20 2025:HHC:9049

mean that such domestic disputes should be given the
colour of criminality. 33. It goes without saying that genuine cases of cruelty
and violence in the domestic sphere, which do happen,
ought to be handled with utmost sensitivity. Domestic vi-
olence typically happens within the four walls of the
house and not in the public gaze. Therefore, such violence
is not noticed by the public at large, except perhaps by the
immediate neighbours. Thus, providing visible evidence
by the victim of domestic violence may not be easily
forthcoming and producing direct evidence may be hard
and arduous, which does not necessarily mean that do-
mestic violence does not occur. In fact, to deal with this
pernicious phenomenon, stringent statutes like the Pro-
tection from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 , have been en-
acted with a very expansive meaning and scope of what
amounts to domestic violence. Since violence perpetrated
within the domestic sphere by close relatives is now
criminalised, entailing serious consequences on the per-
petrators, the courts have to be careful while dealing with
such cases by examining whether there are specific alle-
gations with instances against the perpetrators and not
generalised allegations. The purpose and mandate of the
law to protect the victims of domestic violence is of para-
mount importance, and as such, a balance has to be
struck by ensuring that while perpetrators are brought to
book, all the family members or relatives are not indis-
criminately brought within the criminal net in a sweeping
manner. 34. For a matrimonial relationship which is founded on
the basis of cordiality and trust to turn sour to an extent
to make a partner hurl allegations of domestic violence
and harassment against the other partner, would nor-
mally not happen at the spur of the moment and such ac-
rimonious relationship would develop only in course of
time. Accordingly, such a situation would be the culmina-
tion of a series of acts which turn, otherwise, an amicable
relationship, into a fractured one. Thus, in such cases in- 2025:HHC:9049

 volving allegations of domestic violence or harassment,
 there would normally be a series of offending acts, which
 would be required to be spelt out by the complainant
 against the perpetrators in specific terms to rope such
 perpetrators in the criminal proceedings sought to be ini-
 tiated against them. Thus, mere general allegations of
 harassment without pointing out the specifics against
 such perpetrators would not suffice, as is the case in re-
 spect of the present appellants. 35. We are, thus, of the view that in criminal cases relat-
 ing to domestic violence, the complaints and charges
 should be specific, as far as possible, as against each and
 every member of the family who is accused of such of-
 fences and sought to be prosecuted, as otherwise, it may
 amount to misuse of the stringent criminal process by in-
 discriminately dragging all the members of the family.
 There may be situations where some of the family mem-
 bers or relatives may turn a blind eye to the violence or
 harassment perpetrated on the victim and may not ex-
 tend any helping hand to the victim, which does not nec-
 essarily mean that they are also perpetrators of domestic
 violence unless the circumstances clearly indicate their
 involvement and instigation. Hence, implicating all such
 relatives without making specific allegations and at-
 tributing offending acts to them and proceeding against
 them without prima facie evidence that they were com-
 plicit and had actively collaborated with the perpetrators
 of domestic violence would amount to abuse of the
 process of law." 16. The present petition has to be considered as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 17. The allegations made in the FIR are quite specific. It

was specifically mentioned that the petitioners started beating

the informant soon after her marriage. They told her to bring a 22 2025:HHC:9049

dowry from her home, otherwise, she would be beaten. She was

not allowed to talk to her parents. She was beaten by the

petitioners on 3rd June. Ornaments and money were kept by the

petitioners. These allegations contain the names of the

petitioners and the roles played by them. Therefore, the

submission that the FIR is vague and does not contain specific

allegations is not acceptable. 18. It was submitted that false averments were made in

the FIR. This Court cannot go into the truthfulness or otherwise

of the allegations made in the complaint. This position was laid

down in Maneesha Yadav v. State of U.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 643,

wherein it was held: - 19. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dharambeer Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand , (2025) 1 SCC 392: 20. Hence, it is not permissible for the Court to go into

the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR. 21. A charge sheet has been filed before the Court. The

learned Trial Court is seized of the matter. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Iqbal v. State of U.P. , (2023) 8 SCC

734: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 949 that when the charge sheet has been

filed, the learned Trial Court should be left to appreciate the

same. It was observed: 22. The FIR discloses the commission of a cognizable

offence, and it cannot be quashed at this stage. 23. Consequently, the present petition fails and is

dismissed. 24. The observations made herein before shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing

whatsoever on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 4th April, 2025
 (Chander)