The Union Finance Ministry has reportedly added the Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) to the list of agencies that share information under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) with the Enforcement Directorate (ED), according to a Hindu BusinessLine report. The move has been allegedly made to help detect money trails and combat cyberfraud. I4C is the 27th entity that has been added to the list.

Recently, I4C sent Apple nine notices, ordering the take down of 26 URLs/accounts for financial cyberfraud. The URLs were allegedly impersonating stockbrokers, financial advisors, and company executives. The notice also mentioned that the URLs were related to bomb threats and illegal digital lending apps.

In March 2025, the Union government revealed that it had blocked about 83,668 WhatsApp accounts, 3,962 Skype IDs to curb digital arrest incidents in the country. Additionally, it blocked 7.81 lakh SIM cards and over 2 lakh International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers reported by police authorities until February 28, 2025.

Similarly, cyberfraud involving biometric cloning and the Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS) accounted for 11% of the financial cybercrimes in 2023, according to Rajesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer of the I4C.

Even Prime Minister Modi, in his radio show ‘Mann Ki Baat’ from October 2024, warned Indians about the modus operandi of digital arrest perpetrators. He also said that investigative agencies are collaborating with state governments to combat such scams and cyberfraud that bad actors are carrying out in the name of digital arrest.

This reflects that cases of cybercrimes and digital fraud in the country are rising at a fast pace. The government and its agencies need to collaborate better and integrate their resources as much as possible to safeguard the vulnerable Indians.

The Union government established I4C, which comes under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in January 2020. The Finance Ministry has authorised the agency to share information with the ED under Section 66 of the PMLA that deals with disclosure of information to a government authorised body. The list also contains entities like the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Competition Commission of India (CCI), and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council.

The primary focus of the I4C is to tackle issues related to cybercrimes in India and against Indian citizens. It also has to work towards improving coordination between various law enforcement agencies and “the stakeholders”, “driving change in India’s overall capability” to counter cybercrime.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event