01. The entire range/ gamut of the controversy raised here in this petition
revolves round the plea whether the Government order bearing No. 863-GAD of
2015 dated 30th of June, 2015, issued by the Government of Jammu and
Kashmir, in exercise of powers conferred by Article 226(2) of the Jammu and
Kashmir Civil Services Regulations, whereby notice was given to the petitioner,
namely, Shri Mushtaq Ahmad Baba, Chief Accounts Officer, Directorate of
School Education, Kashmir, to the effect that he having already rendered 22
years of service, shall retire from service w.e.f. the forenoon of the 1st day of
July, 2015, can withstand the test of judicial scrutiny. 02. The sum and substance of the petition of the petitioner is that during the
entire tenure of his service, he worked with great honesty and dedication at
different places of posting and, at the relevant point of time, i.e. the day when
the order aforesaid was issued, he was holding the post of Chief Accounts
Officer in the Directorate of School Education. His Annual Performance
Reports for the year 2014 have not been written as yet, while as his past Service
carrier is unblemished and, all along, he has been rated as "Excellent" and
"Very good". The Joint Director, in the Directorate of School Education,
namely Abid Rashid Shah, was offered a departmental vehicle, but he refused to
use the same on the pretext that since all the departmental vehicles are badly
damaged because of the devastating floods that hit the Kashmir Valley in the
year 2014, therefore, they are neither workable nor functional. The said officer
engaged a private vehicle for his personal use and the petitioner opposed this
action of the officer, but subsequently, on the approval of the Director, School
Education, he continued to use the private vehicle. Besides this, the Joint
Director purchased furniture on his own, without following the due procedure in
terms of the financial code/ rules. The petitioner did not accord approval to the
release of the payment for this purchase and requested the Joint Director to
follow and adhere to the codal formalities. The said Joint Director, a young IAS
Officer of 2012 batch, approached the Government under the plea that the
petitioner is creating hurdles in his functioning in the office. He was very close
to the then Education Minister and it was at his behest that the State
Government issued the order impugned in the writ petition, whereby the
retirement of the petitioner was ordered under Article 226(2) of the Jammu and
Kashmir Civil Services Regulations. 03. The Respondents have resisted and controverted the petition of the
petitioner, on the grounds, inter alia, that the Government has to perform a
multitude of tasks in order to implement various welfare measures of public
interest, and the paramount aim is of providing clean and effective
administration to the people of the State. In order to make the administration
effective, a periodic review of all Officers is taken up by the Government, the
aim and object being to encourage honest and efficient Government servants
and, simultaneously, to weed out the inefficient and corrupt officers from the
services in the public interest. Whileas, various incentives and awards are given
to honest and efficient officers/officials, recourse is taken to the provisions of Article 226 (2) and (3) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Regulations,
1956, for the removal of such Government officials from the State services, who
have become deadwood on account of their indulging in inefficient and corrupt
practices. The order of compulsory retirement passed in the case of the
petitioner is based on the object of weeding out the deadwood from the State
services. Article 226 (2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Regulations
is designed to infuse the administration with initiative for better administration
and for augmenting the general efficiency so as to meet the expanding horizons
and cater to the new challenges faced by the State to provide sensitivity,
probity, non-irritative public relation and enthusiastic creativity, which can be
achieved by eliminating the deadwood. In order to consider the cases of
officers/ officials, who indulged in corruption/ had bad reputation in public and
created impediments in the delivery of services to the general public in a
smooth and effective manner, under and in terms of Government order bearing
No. 17-GAD (Vig) 2015 dated 20th of May, 2015, sanction was accorded to the
constitution of a Committee to consider the cases of the Officers/ officials for
premature retirement, as is clear from the perusal of the said Government order SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 3 of 21 attached to the Reply as Annexure-R1. Perusal of this order would indicate that
the order directed that the Chairman of the Committee may also co-opt a
member for assisting the Committee in any particular meeting and manner. The
Inspector General of Police, Vigilance Organization, was co-opted as a member
of the Committee. The record regarding the involvement of Government
employees in corrupt practices was placed before the Committee. The cases of
trap, where employees were found demanding and accepting bribe, and the
cases relating to disproportionate assets vis-à-vis the known sources of income
were placed before the Committee. In addition, the cases in which FIRs were
registered and the investigation was either underway or complete were also
placed before the Committee. Consequent to the extensive discussion in respect
of each case, the Committee decided to have further deliberations in the meeting
which was scheduled to be held on 25th of May, 2015, on which date, the
Administrative Secretaries of the concerned Departments were co-opted as
members with regard to the cases pertaining to their respective Departments.
The Committee decided the cases of each Department separately. The
Committee observed that the Annual Performance Reports of the officers/
officials are also required to be scanned. The matter was posted for further
discussions on 11th of June, 2015. The Committee examined the available APRs
of the officers/ officials and observed that the APRs are either not available or
are incomplete. The Committee also observed that, while assessing the
performance of the officers/ officials, the concerned authorities have not taken
cognizance of the registration of FIRs or conduct of investigation. The
Committee finally met on 26th of June, 2015, when, amongst others, the case of
the petitioner was considered. The Committee, on consideration of the record,
observed that the petitioner does not enjoy good reputation in the public due to
his consistent conduct over a period of time. The Committee also noticed that SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 4 of 21 based on a specific complaint and in pursuance of verifications, a case FIR No.
33/2012 P/S VOK was registered against the petitioner. During the
verifications, it was found that the petitioner, as per Government Order bearing
No. 61-HME of 2008, was a member of the Purchase Committee and worked as
Financial Advisor to the Government Dental College, Srinagar at the relevant
point of time. The petitioner passed Bill No. VID-2008-09: 132 dated 28th of
March, 2009, submitted by M/S Villa India, New Delhi, for an amount of Rs.
46.80 lacs on the back of which adverse entries had been made by the
verification Board and Stores Officer about the rejection of a machine. Despite
the rejection, the Bill was passed by the petitioner. The petitioner, being the
Financial Advisor and a member of the Purchase Committee, did not make any
effort to ascertain the reasonability of the rates nor did he conduct any market
survey, even while the list of installations of OPGs submitted by the supplier
was attached to the tender document, which proved the involvement of the
petitioner in the criminal conspiracy. Besides, in FIR No. 28/2010 P/S VOK, the
petitioner was found involved in a case related to the misappropriation of
Government money to the tune of Rs. 48.44 lacs during the period 1 st of April,
2007 to 16th of July, 2010. The Committee, therefore, recommended for the
retirement of the petitioner in public interest under Article 226 (2) of the Jammu
and Kashmir Civil Services Regulations. The recommendations so made were
accepted by the Competent Authority, as a consequence of which, the impugned
order was issued. It has been, accordingly, pleaded by the Respondent-State that
the impugned order is legal. It is in accordance with law. The writ petition, as
such, is legally misconceived, untenable, without any merit, and, in sequel
thereto, merits dismissal. 04. In his rejoinder affidavit, the petitioner has stated that it is correct to say
that a Committee was constituted by the State Government to consider the cases
of various officers/ officials. However, the State has clearly failed to identify as
to in which of the categories does the case of the petitioner fall. Vague
allegations which are merely superficial and have no merit in them have been
levelled against the petitioner. The petitioner was functioning as the Accounts
Officer in the Government Dental College and was a member of the Purchase
Committee for Health and Medical Education Department. The relevant
notification dated 16th of September, 2008, which is attached to the rejoinder as
Annexure-R1, clearly stipulates that the respective Heads of the Departments
are the best judges to decide about the requirement of various items, their
quality, urgency involved and the reasonableness of rates. The petitioner, being
an expert of accounts, could not be burdened with the liability of determining
the quality of complicated medical equipments/ items and the manner in which
they function, which lies in the exclusive wisdom of the experts in the field. The
process of release of the amount was only in pursuance of tender notice No. 2 of
2008 dated 29th of December, 2008, whereby technical bids were obtained and
the expert Committee, after observing due procedure, placed the technical bids
before the Purchase Committee for consideration. In total 7 tenders were
received, out of which only 3 qualified. It was found that the tender bid of M/S
Villa India, was the lowest, and, accordingly, the Contract for supply of Dental
Machinery and Equipment was given to the said firm vide order bearing No.
GDC/Pur/504-07 dated 25th of February, 2009 of the competent authority, i.e.
the Principal/ Dean, Government Dental College, Srinagar. A copy of the said
order was served on the petitioner with the direction to debit the payment to the
concerned amount. However, since one part of the OPG machine so received
was broken in transit, and, because of that reason and consequent repairs, the SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 6 of 21 release of the Bill was delayed. With regard to the second allegation levelled
against the petitioner that he is involved in FIR No. 28/2010, it is stated that it
was because of his efforts that the scam of misappropriation of Government
money was brought to the notice of the concerned authorities. It is evident from
the copy of the FIR that it was Mr M. A. Nazki, the Cashier, who received the
Hospital Development Fund, and, on the audit of the accounts, it was found that
he had illegally retained the money and had not remitted it into the Government
Treasury. The departmental recovery proceedings and the response of the said
Cashier also state so. The conduct of the State displays arbitrariness and non-
application of mind, and, therefore, the impugned order deserves to be set aside.
It has also been pleaded by the petitioner in his rejoinder affidavit that even
otherwise, the said FIRs are under investigation and under the settled principles
of law, these could not have been considered as material for superannuating the
petitioner prematurely as per the dictums of law laid down by the Apex Court in
a series of judgments. The contention of the Respondents that the Committee
considered and compulsorily retired only those officers/ officials who were
involved in FIRs or against whom criminal investigation was going on is
devised to give a legal color to the illegal orders passed by the State. Had the
contention been bonafide and sincere, the State ought to have taken the same
action against hundreds of other offices/ officials, who fall under the same
category. A list of such officers/ officials is attached to the rejoinder as
Annexure R-9. The action of the Respondent-State in retiring the petitioner after
taking resort to the provisions of Article 226 (2) of the Civil Services
Regulations, being arbitrary and discriminatory in nature, therefore, the
impugned order deserves to be quashed. 05. Heard and considered. 06. At the outset, what requires to be stated is that the Government, in an
attempt to cleave to the principles of chopping the deadwood in the shape of
corrupt and inefficient Government servants from service and to maintain the
highest standards of efficiency, constituted a Committee headed by the Chief
Secretary of the State vide Government Order bearing No. 17-GAD (Vig) 2015
dated 20th of May, 2015. The Committee, in addition to the Chief Secretary,
comprised of Inspector General of Police, Vigilance Organization and
Administrative Secretary of the concerned Department. The Committee held its
deliberations on various occasions and finally on 26th of June, 2015,
recommended for compulsory retirement of several Government officers/
officials, including the petitioner. The official Respondents, in their Reply, have
pleaded that the officers/ officials, whose conduct had come under a cloud,
while accord of consideration to their cases by the Committee, the provisions of Article 226 (2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Regulations and OM
No. GAD (Vig) 19-Adm/2010 dated 25th of October, 2010, were invoked. The
case of the Respondents further is that the Committee, while considering the
case of the petitioner, came to the conclusion that the petitioner did not enjoy a
good reputation and, in addition, his involvement had surfaced in two cases
registered against him by the Vigilance Organization for misappropriation of
Government money. It is the specific case of the Respondent-State that the
Annual Performance Reports of the petitioner were not considered by the
Committee in the matter of passing the order impugned. While recording the
order of his premature retirement, the baseline of the order impugned is the
alleged involvement of the petitioner in the two FIRs detailed hereinbefore,
buttressed with his general reputation which, it is stated, was unbecoming of a
Government servant. 07. The law is that the order of compulsory retirement, taken under the safety
valve of public interest, could not be treated as a major punishment and that Article 311 (2) of the Constitution could not be invoked, as the employee
concerned was no longer fit in the public interest to continue in service and,
therefore, he can be compulsorily retired. In case titled " Baikuntha Nath Das v.
Chief District Medical Officer ", reported in "(1992) 2 SCC 299", the Apex
Court evolved five fundamental principles that can form the basis for passing an
order of compulsorily retirement to weed out the deadwood in order to maintain
a high standard of efficiency and initiative in service. These principles, in
addition, provide for the cases where judicial scrutiny is permissible and they
are as under: 08. Again, in the case of " State of Gujrat v. Umedbhai M. Patel , (2001) 3
SCC 314", the Supreme Court, in Paragraph No.11, unfolded the principles of
law relating to compulsory retirement, which assume significance in this
petition and the said paragraph reads as under: 09. On an analysis of the principles laid down above, the order of compulsory
retirement can be subjected to judicial scrutiny, if the Court is satisfied that the
order is passed (a) malafide; or (b) that it is based on no evidence; or (c) that it
is arbitrary - in the sense that no reasonable and prudent man would form such
an opinion on the given material, in which case it falls under the category of an
order termed to be perverse in the eyes of law or (d) the promotion of an Officer
which fact is in favour of the officer concerned. For framing an opinion to
compulsorily retire a public servant, there should be some material on record to
support and fortify it, as otherwise, it would amount to arbitrary or colorable
exercise of power and, therefore, the order could be challenged on the grounds
that the requisite opinion was based on no evidence or had not been formed or
the decision was based on collateral grounds or that is was an arbitrary decision. 10. The State of Jammu and Kashmir has enacted a specific provision for
dealing with the compulsory retirement of the public servants in the Civil
Services Regulations of the State, with the ultimate aim of weeding out the
corrupt and inefficient public servants and, at the same time, to ensure that it is
not used as a weapon of a penalty. It requires the formulation of an opinion to
the effect that it is in public interest to do so. The said provision known as Article 226(2) of the CSR reads as follows: 11. To delve on the matter on the strength of what has been stated
above, the relevant extracts of the record produced before this Court by the
State, which have a bearing on the case of the petitioner, are reproduced
below: The Committee, accordingly, recommended the premature retirement of
the petitioner among others in terms of Article 226(2) of the Jammu and
Kashmir Civil Services Regulations which was approached by the Government. 12. Taking an overall view of the matter, the bottomline of the order of
compulsory retirement of the petitioner is his conduct and the registration of
two FIRs against him, in which, it is stated, that the investigation has
commenced or concluded, but the chargesheets have not been laid before the
Court. Whether the compulsory retirement of the petitioner could have been
directed under the facts and circumstances of the case is the moot question that
requires to be determined herein this petition? The answer to this question is
provided at Para No. 27 of the law laid down by the Apex Court of the country
in the case of " State of Gujarat v. Suryakant Chunilal Shah ", reported in
"1998 (9) Supreme 150"and "(1999) 1 SCC 529", which, for the convenience
of ready reference, is reproduced hereinbelow, verbatim et literatim: 13. Applying the ratio of law laid down above to the facts of the instant case,
resort to the practice which has been followed by the State in directing the
compulsory retirement of the petitioner will have serious ramifications in some
cases. It will lead to consequences which can be disastrous for the smooth
functioning of the official machinery. To illustrate this, it needs must be said
that most of the employees have to deal with the cases of the public at large and
the employees cannot practically keep every Tom, Dick and Harry in good
humor. That being so, if this 'Sword of Damocles' is kept hanging high on the
heads of the employees, any Tom, Dick and Harry, can lodge a complaint
against the public servant before the Vigilance Organization which, ultimately,
will pave way to show him the exit. Not only this, such a practice cuts at the
very root of the basic tenets and the elements of the age old adage and axiom of
law that a person accused of an offence is presumed to be innocent unless and
until his guilt has been proved. The State has applied this principle in the
reverse, perhaps, labouring under the belief that the maxim of law is that every
person is presumed to be guilty unless and until he proves his innocence, and to
accept this principle in the reverse order will be carrying a load of crap and
rubbish. It is only on the culmination of the trial that if the charges are proved
against the accused and, as a consequence thereto, he is convicted and
sentenced, that such an opinion can be framed. The whole exercise has been
conducted on the basis of the involvement of the petitioner in two criminal
cases about which an explanation appears to have been given by him in his
rejoinder affidavit, which, however, may not be relevant to determine at the
moment. If the contention, as propounded by the State, that the involvement of SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 14 of 21 the petitioner came into limelight in two cases and, therefore, he was shown the
door is accepted, the meaning that will flow from it is that a presumption will be
drawn against each public servant facing the changes of corruption that in the
ultimate analysis, he will be convicted in the offence(s) levelled against him, as
a corollary to which, he will lose his service. Such hypothesis or supposition
cannot be countenanced in law and had it been so, it would have formed the
basic structure of the rule itself, that such acts of omission and commission will
lead to the presumption that the employee has a doubtful integrity or conduct
unbecoming of a public servant and, to crown it all, the Government of Jammu
and Kashmir, General Administration Department, vide their communication
bearing No. GAD (Vig)25-NOC/2012-Finance dated 17th of September, 2012,
on the subject 'Vigilance Clearance', has stated that nothing adverse is available
on the records of the State Vigilance Organization against the Officers of the
Finance Department detailed therein, that included the petitioner also. This
communication has been issued on 17th of September, 2012 by the General
Administration Department and, going by this communication, what can be said
is that the FIRs filed against the petitioner have come under a cloud. 14. Looking at the instant petition from another perspective, the decision to
compulsorily retire a government servant can be taken up on the consideration
of the relevant material and the principles laid down from time to time in
several judicial pronouncements. In this regard, it would be profitable to refer to
the observations of the Supreme Court made in Paragraph Nos. 8 and 18 of the
case titled " Swaran Singh Chand v. Punjab State Electricity Board &
Ors. ,(2009) 13 SCC 758', which are as under: 18. In a case of this nature the appellant has not alleged malice of fact.
 The requuirements to comply with the directions contained in the said
 Circular Letter dated 14-8-1981 were necessary to be complied with in a
 case of this nature. Non-compliance wherewith would amount to malice in
 law (See Govt. Branch Press v. D.B. Belliappa ( 1979) 1 SCC 477, S. R.
 Venkataraman v. Union of India (1979) 2 SCC 491 and P. MohananPilai
 v. State of Kerela (2007) 9 SCC 497). Thus, when an order suffers from
 malice in law, neither any averment as such is required to be made nor
 strict proof thereof is insisted upon. Such an order being illegal would be
 wholly unsustainable." 15. The view, as propounded above, was repeated and reiterated by the
Supreme Court in a later judgment titled " Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative
Dairy Federation Ltd. & Anr. v. Rajnesh Kumar Jaminder , (2009) 15 SCC
221, Paragraph No. 43 of which is relevant to the context and it reads as under: 16. Judicial review of an order of compulsory retirement, passed not by way
of any punitive measure but for cleansing the administration of inefficient and
corrupt public servants without attaching any stigma, has been the subject
matter of adjudication in several cases before the Supreme Court as well as in SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 16 of 21 this Court. It would be relevant to refer to the observations made by the
Supreme Court at Paragraph No. 13 of the case titled " M.S. Bindra v. Union of
India & Ors. , (1998) 7 SCC 310", which is reproduced hereunder: 17. The contention of the Respondents in this petition is that there was no
material in the shape of 'Character Roll Entries' available before them and, if
these were not available, the State could not have concluded that the conduct of
the petitioner was unbecoming of a public servant, or that he was a man of
doubtful integrity, or that he was a fit person to be retired compulsorily from
service. The order of the compulsory retirement of the petitioner, in these
circumstances, is punitive having been passed for the collateral purpose of his
immediate removal rather than in public interest. However, the petitioner has
knocked the bottom out of this contention of the Respondent-State that the
'Character Roll Entries' were not available at a time when consideration was SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 17 of 21 accorded to the case of his compulsory retirement. This strengthens the view
that the order has been passed for a collateral purpose of his immediate removal. 18. The facts are eloquent. In the supplementary affidavit filed by the
petitioner, he has placed on record the details of his 'Annual Performance
Reports' wherein and whereunder his achievements, from time to time, have
been judged/ evaluated by his superiors and he has been rated as under: 19. The aforementioned 'Annual Performance Reports' have been shelved.
These have escaped the scrutiny of the Committee. It appears to have been done
with the ultimate aim of showing the petitioner the exit and, had these 'Annual
Performance Reports', been considered, the shit would have hit the fan. Not
only this, by the government order No. 210-F of 2013, dated 27th of September,
2013, on the subject "Promotion of Officers as Senior Scale Accounts Officers-
Regularization thereof", the petitioner has, on the recommendations of the
Departmental Promotion Committee, been regularized in the Pay Band-3. How
could this order, which was almost proximate in time to that of the order of his
compulsory retirement, come into being in case the conduct of the petitioner
was not above board? 20. 'Francis Bacon' (1561 to 1626) said and I quote, "Laws are like cobwebs;
wherein the small flies are caught and the bumble bees break through". To this is
added the quote of 'Mr Henry Ward Beecher', which is "Law is a battery, which
targets all that is behind it, but sweeps with destruction that is outside it". The quote
of 'William Shenstone' (1714-63) also fits to a "T" in this petition and it is that
"Laws are generally found to be nets of such a texture, as the little creep through,
the great break through, and the middle-sized are alone entangled in". These
quotes apply in all the fours to the instant case. Annexure-R9 attached to the
Rejoinder affidavit of the petitioner, is an Unstarred CQ No. 185 of Shri Ashok SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 19 of 21 Khajuria on the subject "Prosecution". The questions and the replies have been
framed therein. The question No. (a) relates to the number and names of
Government and PSU Officers/ Officials against whom the State Vigilance
Organization (SVO) and Crime Branch have sought sanction for their
prosecution from GAD. The question No. (b) pertains to the Officers/ Officials
against whom sanction has been accorded for their prosecution and the question
No. (c) specifies the Officers/ Officials against whom sanction is pending and
the reason for delayed prosecution is the accord of sanction. Annexure "A1",
appended to the said Unstarred CQ contains the list of 126 employees and,
Annexure "A2", is the list of 13 employees. Similarly, Annexure "B", contains
the list of 142 employees and, Annexure "B1", contains the list of 8 employees.
Annexure "C", bears the names of 20 employees and, Annexure "C1", is the list
of 5 employees. Had the intention of the Respondent-State been to weed out all
the deadwood on the parameters that the Committee evolved, all the employees,
figuring in the aforesaid annexures, would have been shown the door after
taking resort to the provisions of Article 226(2) of the Jammu and Kashmir
Civil Services Regulations. However, only a skeletal of the employees (small
flies) including the petitioner were shown the exit and the bumble bees were
allowed to break through. The cases of only some of the employees have been
treated as the rare and unique ones. They have been discriminated invidiously
and the rules of the game have not been applied equally. 21. Viewed in the context of what has been said and done above, the
impugned order bearing No. 863-GAD of 2015 dated 30th of June, 2015, cannot
stand the test of law and reason. It is not based on any material from which a
reasonable opinion could be derived to put forth the plea that the petitioner has
outlived his utility as a Government servant or that his conduct was such that his SWP No 1367 of 2017 Page 20 of 21 continuance in service would be prejudicial to the public interest. Merely that a
case or cases have been registered against the petitioner by the Vigilance
Organization cannot form the basis of retiring him prematurely and, as a sequel
thereof, the impugned order bearing No. 863-GAD of 2015 dated 30th of June,
2015, is quashed. The Respondents are directed to reinstate the petitioner and to
grant him all consequential benefits, within a period of one month from the date
the certified copy of this order is served on them by the petitioner. 22. Writ petition alongwith connected MP disposed of as above. The record
relating to the case, as produced by the learned AAG, be returned back to him. (M. K. Hanjura)
 Judge
SRINAGAR
November 8th, 2017
"TAHIR"