IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA. CWP No. 1311 of 2017
          Reserved on: 20.9.2018 
 Decided on: 12.12.2018

 . ____________________________________________________________

 Court on its own motion        .....Petitioner
 Versus

 Gautam Group of College, Hamirpur 
 and others           ...Respondents
 _____________________________________________________________

 Coram: Mr. Tek Chand, Advocate, for respondents
 No.7 & 8. . Mr.   B.C.   Negi,   Sr.   Advocate   with   Mr.
 Pranay   Pratap   Singh,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.9. Mr.   Mukesh   Thakur,   Advocate,   for

 respondents No.10 & 76. Mr. Ankush Dass Sood, Sr. Advocate with
 Mr.Ramakant   Sharma,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No.12, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23 to

 25, 29, 30, 40, 45, 77 and 90. Mr.   Surender   Verma,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.13. Mr. Suneet Goel, Advocate, for respondent

 No.14. Mr. Sushant Vir Singh Thakur, Advocate,

 vice   Mr.   Vikrant   Thakur,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.18. Mr.   Vijay   Chaudhary,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.22. Mr.   Malay   Kaushal,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No. 27 & 28. Mr. H.S. Rangra, Advocate, for respondent

 No.36. Mr.   Ajay   Kumar   Dhiman,   Advocate,   for

 respondent No.38. Mr. Satyen Vaidya, Sr. Advocate with Mr.
 Vivek   Sharma,   Advocate,   for   respondent

 No.41. Mr.   Vijay   Sharma,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.43. Mr. Ramakant Sharma, Sr. Advocate, with
 Mr.   Basant   Thakur,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.46. Mr.   Sudhir   Thakur,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.48. Mr.   Y.P.   Sood,   Advocate,   for   respondent
 No.49 & 50. Mr.   Vinod   Thakur   and   Mr.   Sudhir
 Bhatnagar, Additional Advocate Generals, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:12 :::HCHP ­3­

 with Mr. J. S. Guleria and Mr. Bhupinder
 Thakur, Dy. A.Gs. for respondent No.56.
 Mr. Vijay Arora, Advocate, for respondent
 No.57. Mr.   Neel   Kamal   Sharma,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.58. . Mr.   Diwakar   Dev   Sharma,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No. 59. Mr.   Surender   Sharma,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.60 & 62. Mr.   B.   Nandan   Vashisht,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No.64 & 65. Mr.   Deepak   Kaushal,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No.66, 70 and 74. Mr.   Arush   Matlotia,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.67. Mr.   Sunil   Mohan   Goel,   Advocate,   for
 respondent No.80. r Mr.   Prince   Chauhan,   vice   counsel,   for
 respondent No.81. Mr.   N.K.   Sood,   Sr.   Advocate,   with   Mr.
 Aman   Sood,   Advocate,   for   respondents
 No.82 to 84. Mr.   S.S.   Sood,   Advocate,   for   respondent

 No.85. Mr. Shashi Shirshoo, Central Government
 Counsel,   for   respondent   No.61­Union   of

 India. Mr. Balwant Singh Thakur, Advocate, for

 respondent No. 87. Mr.   Nimish   Gupta,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No. 93, 94, 95, 96, 99. Mr.   Anoop   Rattan,   Advocate,   for
 respondents No. 97, 98, 100 and 101. __________________________________________________________________

  Per  Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge

 This Court, in a public interest litigation in CWP

 No.   6454/2010   issued   directions   from   time   to   time.   In

 obedience to one of the orders dated 5.9.2012, passed by this ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:12 :::HCHP ­4­

 Court,   the   Central   Bureau   of   Investigation   (CBI)   had

 registered two preliminary inquiries and the State Vigilance &

 Anti­Corruption   Bureau   registered   FIR   No.   11   dated

 . 18.7.2011 in connection with the allegations of certain forged

 certificates   allegedly   issued   by   some   of   the   educational

 institutions   in   the   State   of   Himachal   Pradesh.   The   CBI

 concluded   the   first   preliminary   inquiry   and   submitted   a

 report,   upon   which,   this   Court,   vide   order   dated   3.5.2012,

 directed that the investigation of the crime registered by FIR

 No. 11 be transferred to the CBI, for investigation. 2 In   the   second   preliminary   inquiry,   it   was

 ascertained from different documents collected from different

 regulatory   authorities,   namely,   All   India   Council   for

 Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi, Nation Council for

 Teacher   Education   (NCTE)   NRC,   Jaipur,   NCVI,   New   Delhi

 that a total of 274 private Technical/Educational and other

 institutions   were   granted   recognition/approval   by   different

 regulatory   authorities,   after   obtaining   No   Objection

 Certificate   from   the   Directorate   of   Technical   Education,

 Government of Himachal Pradesh, had granted affiliation to

 the   aforesaid   category   of   institutions.   Therefore,   vide   order

 dated 9.8.2011, this Court directed as follows:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:12 :::HCHP ­5­

 "The S.P C.B.I. who is present before us has brought
 to the notice of this Court, that in some cases where
 NOC's have been obtained from the N.C.T.E., they do
 not   have   buildings   much   less   proper   buildings. . According to his information, there are several such

 institutions. There will be a direction to the S.P. C.B.I.
 to   inquire   into   all   those   cases   where   the   no

 objection/clearance   has   been   obtained   from   the
 NCTE,  NRC,  NCVT,  AICTE   and  other such  agencies
 on the basis of false representations. After conducting

 such   inquiry   into   the   matter   of   all   such   private
 institutions, a report in a sealed cover be submitted
 before this Court in three months. We make it clear

 that   it   will   be   open   for   the   C.B.I.   also   to   take

 appropriate   action   under   law   on   the   basis   of   the
 investigation and it is not required that they should
 wait   for   orders   from   this   Court   for   any

 direction/permission in that regard to take action in
 accordance with law." 3 The   CBI   assailed   the   aforesaid   order   by   filing

 petition(s)   for   special   leave   to   appeal   (c)   No.(s)   11462­

 11463/2013   before   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court.   It   was

 represented before the Hon'ble Supreme Court that the CBI

 was in fact not challenging the aforesaid order passed by this

 Court, but only expressing its inability to undertake such a

 huge   investigation,   having   regard   to   the   limited

 infrastructure   available   to   it.   The   CBI,   therefore,   came   up

 with   the   suggestion   that   the   investigation   be   referred   to   a ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:12 :::HCHP ­6­

 Committee constituted under orders of  the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court   and   even   suggested   names   of   four   retired   Police

 Officers   of   whom,   three   had   worked   with   the   CBI   earlier. . Pursuant to this representation, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 vide   order   dated   20.4.2015   appointed   a   committee   of   the

 following members:­

 Sr. Name of Officer Batch  Cadre Remarks 

 No.
 1 A.C. Verma, IPS 1979 Bihar Retired   in   the   year 2014 2 A.K. Malhotra, Ex. CBI ­ CBI Retired   in   the   year
 r 2008   as   DIG,   EOW,
 CBI,

 New Delhi
 3 P.C. Sharma, Ex. CBI ­ CBI Retird   in   the   year
 2011   as   SSP,   CBI,
 SU, New Delhi

 4 Vijay Kumar, Ex. CBI ­ CBI Retired   in   the   year
 2012 as Sr. SP, CBI,
 AC­II, New Delhi. report the progress of the investigation to this Court and seek

 appropriate guidance in the matter. . 5 For completion of records, it needs to be stated

 that two  members of the  aforesaid committee  resigned  and

 this   Court   vide   order   dated   10.1.2017   substituted   Mr.

 Lakshmi Kant Sharma, Ex. Additional Director, Directorate of

 Higher Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh and Mr.

 Rajeev Kumar Sharma, Ex. Deputy Commandant of CISF, in

 their  place. 6 However,   before   we   proceed   to   deal   with   the

 progress   reports   that   have   been   furnished   by   the   Special

 Investigating   Team   (SIT)   from   time   to   time,   we   need   to

 delineate the precise role of the regulatory authorities in the

 technical institutions falling under them. 7 In exercise of powers conferred by Section 32 of

 the   National   Council   For   Teacher   Education   Act,   1993   (in

 short,   "the   1993   Act),   the   NCTE,   established   under   sub­

 section   (1)   of Section   3 of   the   Act   of   1993,   has   framed

 Regulations   known   as   National   Council   for   Teacher

 Education   (Application   for   Recognition,   the   Manner   for

 Submission, Determination of Conditions for Recognition of

 Institutions and Permission to Start New Course or Training) ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:13 :::HCHP ­8­

 Regulations,   1995   dated   29.12.1995,   which   were   assailed

 being  ultra   vires  of   the   provisions   of   1993   Act   before   the

 Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in  St.   Johns   Teachers   Training

 . Institute   vs.   Regional   Director,   National   Council   For

 Teacher Education  and  another ,  (2003)  3 SCC  321,and

 same were held ultra vires of 1993 Act. It shall be apposite to

 refer to para 10 of the judgment, which reads thus: The legislature may, after laying down the legislative
 policy confer discretion on an administrative agency
 as to the execution of the policy and leave it to the
 agency to work out the details within the frame work
 of   policy.   The   need   for   delegated   legislation   is   that
 they are framed with care and minuteness when the
 statutory authority making the Rule, after coming in
 to force of the Act, is in a better position to adapt the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:13 :::HCHP ­9­

 Act   to   special   circumstances.   Delegated   legislation
 permits   utilisation   of   experience   and   consultation
 with  interests  affected   by the   practical  operation  of
 statutes. Rules and  Regulations made by reason of

 . the specific power conferred by the Statutes to make

 Rules   and   Regulations   establish   the   pattern   of
 conduct   to   be   followed.   Regulations   are   in   aid   of

 enforcement   of   the   provisions   of   the   Statute.   The
 process   of   legislation   by   departmental   Regulations
 saves   time   and   is   intended   to   deal   with   local

 variations   and   the   power   to   legislate   by   statutory
 instrument   in   the   form   of   Rules   and   Regulations   is
 conferred   by   Parliament.   The   main   justification   for

 delegated legislation is that the legislature being over

 burdened and the needs of the modern day society
 being   complex   it   can   not   possibly   foresee   every
 administrative   difficulty   that   may   arise   after   the

 Statute   has   begun   to   operate.   Delegated   legislation
 fills those needs. The Regulations made under power

 conferred   by   the   Statute   are   supporting   legislation
 and have the force and affect, if validly made, as the

 Act   passed   by   the   competent   legislature.   (See Sukhdev   Singh   v.   Bhagatram   Sardar   Singh

 Raghuvanshi , AIR 1975 SC 1331). 8 The   purpose   of   establishing   the   NCTE   is

 to   ensure     planned   and   coordinated   development   for

 teacher   education,   for   proper   maintenance   of   norms   and

 standards for teacher education and for discharge of diverse

 functions   assigned   to   it   by   the   1993   Act.   The   Regional ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:13 :::HCHP ­10­

 Committees   are   empowered   to   discharge   their   functions   as

 statutorily provided in Sections 14 , 15 and 17 and also such

 other functions which may be assigned to them by the NCTE

 . or which may be provided in the regulations. 9 Once   recognition   has   been   granted   to   an

 institution   by   the   Regional   Committee,     the   NCTE   has   to

 ensure   that   such   recognized   institution   functions   in

 accordance with the 1993 Act. 10 Section   13 empowers   the   NCTE   to   cause

 inspection   of   any   such   institution   to   be   made   by   such

 persons   as   it   may   direct,   and   in   such   manner   as   may   be

 prescribed. Such inspection has to be made as prescribed in

 Rule 8 of the NCTE Rules, 1997 to find out   whether such

 recognized institution is or is not functioning  in accordance

 with  the provisions  of the 1993 Act, and if deficiencies are

 found, the NCTE is required to recommend such institution

 to make up the deficiencies. 11 The whole idea is that the NCTE is a parent body

 to keep an eye over the recognized  institutions so that they

 function in accordance with 1993 Act and the Rules and the

 regulations and orders made or issued thereunder, and if any

 recognized institution is found wanting in its functioning, it

 is given an opportunity to rectify the deficiencies. ­11­

 12 De­recognition or withdrawal  of recognition of a

 recognized institution, as per the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 National Council for Teacher Education and another vs.

 . Vaishnav   Institute   of   Technology   and   Management,

 (2012)   5   SCC   139,   is   a   drastic   measure   as   it   results   in

 dislocation of the students, teachers and the staff. 13 It   was   in   this   background   that   the   Hon'ble

 Supreme   Court   held   that   the   NCTE   has   been   empowered

 under Section 13 of the 1993 Act to  have a constant vigil on

 the   functioning   of   a   recognized   institution,   and   on   the

 recommendation   of   the   NCTE,   after   inspection,     if   a

 recognized   institution   does   not   rectify   the   deficiencies   and

 continues   to   function   in   contravention   of   the   provisions   of

 the 1993 Act, or the Rules, or the Regulations, the Regional

 Committee under Section 17 has full power   to proceed for

 withdrawal of recognition in accordance with the procedure

 prescribed therein. 14 In  Maa Vaishno Devi Mahila Mahavidyalaya

 vs.  State of Uttrar Pradesh and ors., (2013) 2 SCC 617,

 the  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court   has  held   that  the   NCTE   is   the

 paramount   body     for   granting     recognition   and   ensuring

 maintenance   of   higher   standards   of   education   in   teachers' ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:13 :::HCHP ­12­

 training institution  and it has primacy   over the State and

 University concerned in this regard. It has further been held

 that  if the directions of the NCTE are not complied with, the

 . NCTE   can  render  an   institution   ineffective   and  inoperative. The NCTE is an authority  constituted under the Central Act

 and its opinion is of utmost importance and takes precedence

 over   the   view   of   the   State   as   well   as   the   University.     The

 Department   of   the   State   concerned   and   the   affiliating

 University   have   a   role   to   play,   but   it   is   limited   in   its

 application.   They cannot lay down any guideline or policy,

 which   would   be   in   conflict   with   the   Central   statute   or   the

 standards   laid   down   by   the   Central   body.     The   State   can

 frame its policy for admission to such professional courses,

 but   such   policy   again   has   to   be   in   conformity   with   the

 directives issued by the Central body. 15 In State of Rajasthan vs. LBS. B.Ed. College and   ors.,   (2016)   16   SCC   110,   it   has   been   held   by   the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court that the NCTE has the final say in

 the matter of recognition and the role of  State Government is

 limited one, confined to offering proper comments supported

 by due reasoning for the purpose of recognition.   The NCTE

 has   to   consider   such   recommendations   while   granting

 recognition,  but  such  recommendations  are  not  binding on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:13 :::HCHP ­13­

 the   NCTE.   Once   recognition   is   granted,   such   grant   attains

 supremacy vis­à­vis the State as well as the affiliating body. 16 Thus, what can be deduced from the aforesaid

 . exposition of law is that the NCTE is a parent body  and it is

 entrusted with a task of keeping an eye over the recognized

 institutions that they function in accordance with the 1993

 Act and the Rules and the regulations and orders made or

 issued thereunder and, if any recognized institution is found

 wanting in its functioning, then the NCTE is required to give

 an opportunity to such institutions to rectify the deficiencies,

 and in case the institutions do not rectify the deficiencies and

 continue to function in contravention of the provisions of the

 1993   Act   or   the   Rules   or   the   Regulations,   the   Regional

 Committee constituted by it under Section 17 has full power

 to proceed for withdrawal of recognition in accordance with

 the   procedure   prescribed   therein.     The   State   and   the

 University have  a very limited role to play. 17 Likewise,   as   regards   the   AICTE,   its   position   is

 not different from the NCTE being the paramount authority

 for granting of affiliation/recognition as held by the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in  LBS. B.Ed. College's case (supra). ­14­

 18 It   was   in   this   background   that   even   after

 receipts of reports of the SIT, an opportunity was given to the

 institutions to rectify the deficiencies/shortcomings. . 19 Similar issue regarding inspection of Colleges by

 the   Central   Council   of   Homeopathy   (CCH),   came   up   very

 recently before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No.

 6734   of   2018,   titled 'The   Temple   of   Hanemann

 Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital vs. Union of

 India  and  Others ', decided  on 17.7.2018 and  after taking

 into  consideration   the  various  provisions  of  the  Act,  it  was

 held   that   it   was   only   the   Central   Government,   which   was

 empowered to appoint a team of inspectors under Section 17 ,

 and visitors for the examination under Section 18 , for making

 recommendations to the Central Government on the basis of

 the report submitted by the team of inspectors or visitors as

 envisaged under Sections 17 and 18 of the Act. It is relevant

 to observe as under: 20 Thus, it is no longer  res integra  that the NCTE,

 AICTE   or   any   other   parent   body   is   the   only   body   that   is

 entrusted with the task of keeping an eye over the recognized

 institutions   that   they   function   in   accordance   with   the   Act,

 Rules,   Regulations   and   orders   made   or   issued   thereunder

 and,   if   any   recognized   institution   is   found   wanting   in   its

 functioning, then it is required to be afforded an opportunity

 to rectify the deficiencies and it is only in case the institution

 still   does   not   rectify   the   deficiencies     and   continues   to

 function in contravention of the provisions of the Act, Rules

 and   Regulations   etc.   the   Committee   constituted   under   the

 Act   has   been   empowered   to   proceed   for   withdrawal   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:14 :::HCHP ­17­

 recognition   in   accordance   with   the   procedure   prescribed

 therein.   The   Central   and   State   Governments,   as   also   the

 Universities, have a very limited role to play. . 21 As   observed   above,   the   National   Council   for

 Teacher   Education   (NCTE)   was   established   with   a   view   to

 achieve   planned   and   coordinated   development   of   teacher

 education system throughout the country, the regulation and

 proper maintenance of norms and standards in the teacher

 education system and for matters connected therewith. 22 In   order   to   achieve   this   object,   the   NCTE   has

 framed regulations for laying down the procedure for grant of

 recognition   together   with   the   norms   and   standards   for

 various teacher  training programmes, and in this case,  we

 are   concerned   with   the   regulations   that   were   promulgated

 and published in the Gazette of India (Extraordinary) Part­III, Section   4 and   were   issued   vide   notification   dated

 13.11.2002.   These   regulations   were   called   "The   National

 Council   for   Teacher   Education   (Recognition   Norms   &

 Procedure) Regulations, 2002". 23 The   appendix   5   provided   for   norms   and

 standards   for   Elementary   Teacher   Education   Programme. The duration of the course was two academic years providing

 for   a   unit   of   50   students   for   intake   in   each   year.   The ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:14 :::HCHP ­18­

 qualification of teaching staff was provided in Clause 5 of the

 norms which reads thus:­

 "5.Qualifications of Teaching Staff

 . (a) Principal/Head (i) Academic and professional qualification will be
 as prescribed for the post of Lecturer. (ii)  At   least  five   years'  experience   of   teaching   in
 elementary teacher education institutions. (b) Lecturer (i)   Good   academic   record   with   M.Ed./M.A.
 (Education)   with   55%   marks,   preferably   with
 specialisation in elementary education. Or (ii)   Good   Academic   record   with   Master's   Degree

 with   55%   marks   in   the   relevant   school   subject

 and Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.El.Ed.),
 or   B.Ed.   Preferably   with   specialization   in
 elementary   education,   and   with   five   years'
 teaching   experience   in   recognised   elementary

 schools. (iii) A relaxation of 5% may be provided, from 55%
 to   50%   of   the   marks,   at   the   Master's   level   for

 SC/ST Category. (iv)   Qualifications   for   other   academic   staff   for
 teaching physical education, art, work experience,
 information   technology   literacy,   etc.   shall   be   as

 prescribed by the concerned State Government." 24 Clause 6 deals with the administrative staff and

 reads thus:­

 "6. Administrative Staff
 The administrative and other support staff may be
 provided   as   per   the   norms   prescribed   by   the
 concerned State Government." ­19­

 25 As   regards   infrastructural   facilities   and

 instructional facilities, the same were provided in clauses 7 and

 8, which read thus:­

 . Alternatively, the playground available with the attached

 school or local body may be utilized and where there is
 scarcity of space as in metropolitan towns/hilly regions,
 facilities for yoga, indoor games may be provided. (d)   To   provide   these   facilities,   the
 Management/Institutions   shall,   at   the   time   of   making
 application,   have   in   its   possession   adequate   land/land
 and   building   on   ownership   basis   free   from   all
 encumbrances. Govt. land acquired on long­term lease as
 per   the   law   of   the   concerned   State/UT   will   also   be
 considered valid for the purpose. Pending construction of
 permanent building in the above land, the institution may ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:14 :::HCHP ­20­

 provide these facilities in suitable temporary premises up
 to a maximum period of 3 years, before expiry of which
 the institution should shift to its permanent building. 8. Instructional facilities

 . a)  There shall  be a multipurpose educational  laboratory

 with   psychology   and   science   sections   and   a   workshop
 attached to it. (i) The science section shall have the apparatus and
 chemicals   required   to   demonstrate   all   the
 experiments   as   per   the   syllabus   of   elementary
 schools. (ii) The psychology section shall have facilities for
 conducting   the   following   tests:   Sensory­motor,
 Intelligence   (Performance,   Verbal   and   Non­verbal),
 Aptitude,   Personality   and   Interest   inventories

 including Projective Tests: provision for conducting

 simple Piagetian and Brunnerian experiments. (b)   There   shall   be   hardware   and   software   facilities   for

 language learning. (c) There shall be an Educational  Technology laboratory
 with   hardware   and   software   required   for   imparting

 information Technology (IT) literacy." 26 As regards the terms and conditions of service of

 staff, it was provided as under:­

 "9. Terms and Conditions of Service of Staff (a)     The   appointments   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of
 recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted
 as   per   the   policy   of   the   Central/concerned   State
 Government. (b)     All appointments are to be made on full­time and
 regular basis. ­21­ (c)   Government   institutions/Government   aided
 institutions   may   make   appointments   on   deputation   or
 contract basis as an interim measure, in the absence of
 availability   of   suitable   candidates   recommended   by

 . appropriate bodies set up by the concerned government. (d)         Appointment   of   part­time   instructors   and   other
 staff  can be made as  per the norms of the concerned

 Government. (e)         The   academic   and   other   staff   of   the   institution
 (including part­time staff) shall be paid such salary as

 may be prescribed by the concerned State Government
 from time to time. (f)   The management of the institution shall discharge

 the   statutory   obligations   relating   to   pension,   gratuity,

 provident fund, etc. (g)   The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be
 determined by the policy of the concerned Government

 subject to maximum age not exceeding 65 years." 
 27 Likewise   Appendix   7   provides   for   norms   and

 standards   for   Secondary   Teacher   Education   Programme

 commonly known as B.Ed. course, which was of the duration of

 one academic year, with an intake of 100 students. 28 Norms   regarding   qualifications   of   teaching   staff

 was provided in Clause 5 and reads thus:­

 "5. Qualifications of Teaching Staff (a) Principal/Head (i) Academic and professional qualifications will be
 as prescribed for the post of Lecturer. ­22­ (ii)   Ten   years'   experience   of   which   at   least   five
 years should be in a secondary teacher education
 institution. (b) Lecturer
 Good academic record with M.Ed./MA (Education)

 . with 55% marks. Or
 Good   academic   record   with   Master's   Degree   with
 55%   marks   in   the   relevant   school   subject   and

 M.Ed./MA (Education) with 50% marks. Or
 Good   academic   record   with   Master's   Degree   with
 55%   marks   in   the   relevant   school   subject   and   a

 B.Ed.   Degree   with   55%   marks,   with   five   years'
 teaching   experience   in   a   recognised
 secondary/senior   secondary   school.   (This
 alternative qualification shall be applicable only in
 those   states,   where   prior   to   the   establishment   of

 the   NCTE,   the   qualification   for   appointment   of

 teachers in B.Ed. Institutions was a Post­graduate
 Degree   in   a   school   subject   with   B.Ed.   However,
 teachers appointed with this qualification will have
 to acquire M.Ed. Qualification within five years.) (c)    A relaxation of 5% may be provided from 55%
 to  50% of the  marks at  the  Master's  level  for the
 SC/ST Category. (d)     Apart from the qualifications prescribed (sic),
 the candidates shall be required to have such other

 qualifications   as   may   be   prescribed   by   other
 regulatory   bodies   like   the   University   Grants
 Commission (UGC), etc. (e)     Qualifications   for   other   academic   staff   for
 teaching physical education, art, work experience,
 information   technology   literacy,   etc.   shall   be   as
 prescribed   by   the   concerned   affiliating
 University/UGC." 29 As   regards   administrative   staff,   it   was   stated   in

 Clause   6   of   the   Regulations   that   the   administrative   and

 other   support   staff   shall   be   provided   as   per   the   norms ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:14 :::HCHP ­23­

 prescribed   by   the   concerned   State   Government/Affiliating

 University. 30 Clauses 7 and 8 deal with infrastructural facilities

 . and instructional facilities, which read thus:­

 "7. Infrastructural Facilities a)   There   shall   be   provision  for  adequate   number  of
 classrooms,   hall,   laboratory   space   for   conducting
 instructional   activities   for   approved   intake   of   100
 students,   separate   rooms   for   the   principal,   faculty
 members,   office   for   the   administrative   staff   and   a

 store.   The   size   of   instructional   spaces   shall   not   be
 less than 10 sq. ft. per student b)   There   shall   be   a   library   equipped   with   text   and
 reference books related to the prescribed courses of

 study,   educational   Encyclopedia,   year   books,

 electronic   publications   (CD­ROMs)   and   journals   on
 teacher education. c) There shall be games facilities with a playground.
 Alternatively,   the   playground   available   with   the

 attached   school/college   may   be   utilised   and   where
 there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   metropolitan
 towns/hilly regions, facilities for yoga, indoor games
 may be provided. d)   To   provide   these   facilities,   the   Management   /

 Institutions shall, at the time of making application,
 have   in   its   possession   adequate   land   /   land   and
 building   on   ownership   basis   free   from   all
 encumbrances.   Govt.   land   acquired   on   long­term

 lease as per the law of the concerned State / UT will
 also   be   considered   valid   for   the   purpose.   Pending
 construction of permanent building in the above land,
 the institution may provide these facilities in suitable
 temporary   premises   up   to   a   maximum   period   of   3
 years,  before   expiry   of   which   the   institution  should
 shift to its permanent building. 8. Instructional Facilities a) There shall be a science laboratory or alternatively,
 science laboratory of the attached school/college may
 be  used. The  laboratory shall  have  multiple  sets  of
 science   apparatus   required   to   perform   and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:15 :::HCHP ­24­

 demonstrate   the   experiments   prescribed   in   the
 syllabus   for   secondary/senior   secondary   classes.
 Chemicals,   etc.   should   be   provided   in   the   required
 quantity. b)   There   shall   be   a   Psychology   Laboratory   with

 . apparatus   for   simple   experiments   related   to

 educational   psychology   intelligence   tests
 (performance,   verbal,   non­verbal)   aptitude   tests,
 creativity   tests,   personality   test,   attitude   test,
 interest inventories, etc. c) There shall be hardware and software facilities for
 language learning. d)   There   shall   be   an   educational   technology
 laboratory with hardware and software required for

 Information Technology (IT) literacy." 31 The   terms   and   conditions   of   service   of   staff

 provided in Clause 9, which reads thus:­

 "9.Terms and Conditions of Service of Staff a)   The   appointment   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of

 recommendations   of   the   Selection   Committee
 constituted   as   per   the   policy   of   the   Central   /
 concerned   State   Government   ,   whichever   is
 applicable. b) All appointments are to be made on full­time and

 regular basis. c)   Government   Institutions   /   Government­aided
 institutions may make appointments on deputation or

 contract basis as an interim measure, in the absence
 of   availability   of   suitable   candidates   recommended
 by   appropriate   bodies   set   up   by   the   concerned
 government. d)Appointment of part­time instructors and other staff
 can   be   made   as   per   the   norms   of   the   concerned
 Government/ Affiliating University/UGC. e)The   academic   and   other   staff   of   the   institutions
 (including part­time staff) shall be paid such salary
 as   may   be   prescribed   by   the   concerned   State
 Government/University from time to time. ­25­ f)The  management  of  the  institution  shall  discharge
 the statutory obligations relating to pension, gratuity,
 provident fund, etc. for its employees. g)The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be
 determined   by   the   policy   of   the   concerned

 . Government/Affiliating   University   subject   to   maximum

 age not exceeding 65 years." 32 It   would   be   noticed   that   as   regards   the

 infrastructural  facilities  it only provided  that  there  should  be

 adequate   number   of   classrooms,   halls,   laboratory   space   for

 conducting   instructional   activities   for   approved   intake   of   100

 students,   separate   rooms   for   the   Principal,   faculty   members

 and for the administrative staff. The size of instructional spaces

 as was provided was not to be less than 10 sq. ft per student. 33 The   NCTE   (Recognition   Norms   &   Procedure)

 Regulations,   2005   were   issued   vide   notification   dated

 27.12.2005   and   were   published   in   Gazette   of   India

 (Extraordinary)   Part­III, Section   4 ,   dated   13.01.2006.   These

 Regulations   were   called   "The   National   Council   for   Teacher

 Education   (Recognition   Norms   &   Procedure)   Regulations,

 2005". 34 The regulation 8 whereof deals with the conditions

 for   grant   of   recognition   and   clause   8(5)   thereof   provided   as

 under:­

 "5.   No   institution   shall   be   granted   recognition   under
 these regulations unless it is in possession of required ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:15 :::HCHP ­26­

 land on the date of application. The land free from all
 encumbrances could be either on ownership basis or on
 lease   for   a   period   of   not   less   than   30   years.   In   case
 where   under   relevant   State   /   UT   laws   the   maximum

 . permissible lease period is less than 30 years, the State

 Government / UT Administration law shall prevail." 35 Appendix 7 to these regulations provided for norms

 and   standards   for   Secondary   Teacher   Education   Programme

 (B.Ed.)   wherein   Clauses   5   to   9,   which   are   relevant   for   our

 purpose, read thus:­

 "5. Qualifications of Teaching Staff a) Principal/Head i) Academic and professional qualification will be as  
 prescribed for the post of Lecturer. ii) Ten years experience of which at least five years  
 should     be   in   a   secondary   teacher   education  
 institution. b)Lecturer

 Good  academic  record  with M.Ed./M.A. (Education)  

 with  55%  marks. OR

 Good academic record with Masters Degree with 55%
 marks in the relevant school subject and M.Ed./M.A.
 (Education) with 50% marks
 OR
 Good academic record with Masters Degree with 55%
 marks     in   the   relevant   school   subject   and   a   B.Ed.
 Degree   with   55%   marks,   with   five   years   teaching
 experience   in   a   recognised   secondary/senior
 secondary school. (This alternative qualification shall
 be applicable only in those States where prior to the
 establishment   of   the   NCTE,   the   qualification   for
 appointment of teachers in B.Ed. institutions was a
 Post­graduate Degree in a school subject with B.Ed. ­27­

 However, teachers appointed with this qualification
 will   have   to   acquire   M.Ed.   qualification   within   five
 years). c) A relaxation of 5% may be provided from 55% to
 50% of the marks, at the Masters level for the SC/ST

 . Category. d)Apart from the qualifications prescribed at (a) and (b) above, the candidates shall be required to have
 such   other   qualifications   as   may   be   prescribed   by

 other   regulatory   bodies   like   the   University   Grants
 Commission (UGC), etc. e) Qualifications for other academic staff for teaching
 physical education, art, work experience, information
 technology literacy, etc. shall be as prescribed by the

 concerned affiliating University/UGC. 6. Administrative Staff

 The administrative and other support staff may be

 provided   as   per   the   norms   prescribed   by   the

 concerned State Government/ Affiliating University. 7. Infrastructural Facilities a) There shall be provision for adequate number of

 classrooms,   hall,   laboratory   space   for   conducting
 instructional   activities   for   approved   intake   of   100
 students,   separate   rooms   for   the   principal,   faculty
 members,   office   for   the   administrative   staff   and   a

 store.   The   size   of   instructional   spaces   shall   not   be
 less than 10 sq. ft. per student b) There shall be a library equipped with text and
 reference books related to the prescribed courses of
 study,   educational   Encyclopedia,   year   books,

 electronic   publications   (CD­ROMs)   and   journals   on
 teacher education. c) There shall be games facilities with a playground.
 Alternatively,   the   playground   available   with   the
 attached school/college may be utilised and where
 there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   metropolitan
 towns/hilly regions, facilities for yoga, indoor games
 may be provided. d)   To   provide   these   facilities,   the   Management   /
 Institutions shall, at the time of making application,
 have   in   its   possession   adequate   land   /   land   and
 building   on   ownership   basis   free   from   all
 encumbrances.   Govt.   land   acquired   on   long­term ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:15 :::HCHP ­28­

 lease as per the law of the concerned State / UT will
 also   be   considered   valid   for   the   purpose.   Pending
 construction   of   permanent   building   in   the   above
 land, the  institution may provide these facilities  in
 suitable   temporary   premises   up   to   a   maximum
 period   of   3   years,   before   expiry   of   which   the

 . institution should shift to its permanent building. 8. Instructional Facilities a) There shall be a science laboratory or alternatively,

 science laboratory of the attached school/college may
 be  used. The  laboratory shall  have  multiple  sets  of
 science   apparatus   required   to   perform   and
 demonstrate   the   experiments   prescribed   in   the
 syllabus   for   secondary/senior   secondary   classes. Chemicals,   etc.   should   be   provided   in   the   required
 quantity. b)   There   shall   be   a   Psychology   Laboratory   with
 apparatus   for   simple   experiments   related   to

 educational   psychology   intelligence   tests

 (performance,   verbal,   non­verbal)   aptitude   tests,
 creativity tests, personality test, attitude test, interest
 inventories, etc. c) There shall be hardware and software facilities for

 language learning. d)   There   shall   be   an   educational   technology
 laboratory with hardware and software required for

 Information Technology (IT) literacy. 9.Terms and Conditions of Service of Staff a)   The   appointment   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of
 recommendations   of   the   Selection   Committee

 constituted   as   per   the   policy   of   the   Central/
 concerned   State   Government/,whichever   is
 applicable. b) All appointments are to be made on full­time and
 regular basis. c)   Government   Institutions/Government­aided
 institutions may make appointments on deputation or
 contract basis as an interim measure, in the absence
 of   availability   of   suitable   candidates   recommended
 by   appropriate   bodies   set   up   by   the   concerned
 government. ­29­ d)Appointment of part­time instructors and other staff
 can   be   made   as   per   the   norms   of   the   concerned
 Government/ Affiliating University/UGC. e)The   academic   and   other   staff   of   the   institutions
 (including part­time staff) shall be paid such salary

 . as   may   be   prescribed   by   the   concerned   State

 Government/University from time to time. f)The  management  of  the  institution  shall  discharge
 the statutory obligations relating to pension, gratuity,

 provident fund, etc. for its employees. g)The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be
 determined   by   the   policy   of   the   concerned
 Government/Affiliating   University   subject   to
 maximum age not exceeding 65 years. Appendix   4   annexed   with   these   regulations

 provided   for   norms   and   standards   for   Secondary   Teacher

 Education Programme leading to Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.)

 Degree   and   Clause   4   provided   for   Intake,   Eligibility   and

 Admission Procedure. It was provided that there would be basic

 unit of 100 students divided into two sections of 50 each for

 general sessions and not more than 25 students per teacher for

 a   school   subject   for   methods   courses   and   other   practical

 activities of the programme to facilitate participatory teaching

 and learning. 37 The requirement of Staff was dealt with in Clause

 5, which reads thus:­ 5. Staff
 4.1 Academic
 4.1 a.(i)  Number (For a basic unit of 100 
 students) ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:15 :::HCHP ­30­

 Principal/Head ­1
 Lecturers - 7
 4.1 a.(ii) For additional intake will be in the multiple of
 100   and   the   number   of   full   time   teacher
 educators   shall   be   increased   by   seven   for
 each increase in the basic unit. However on

 . each occasion additional intake of one basic

 unit shall be considered. 4.1 a (iii) Appointment of teachers shall be such as to
 ensure   the   availability   of   expertise   for

 teaching   all   foundation   and   methodology
 courses   i.e.   Arts,   Science   and   Commerce
 stream. 4.1.b. Qualifications (i) Principal/Head (in multi­faculty institution):­ (a)   Academic   and   professional   qualification   will   be   as
 prescribed for the post of lecturer; and (b) Five years experience of teaching in a Secondary Level

 Teacher Training Institution. Note:  In the event of non­availability of eligible and
 suitable   candidates   for   appointment   as

 Principal/Head   as   per   above   eligibility
 criteria,   it   would   be   permissible   to   appoint
 retired   Profession/Head   in   Education   on
 contract basis for a period not exceeding one

 year at a time till such time the candidates
 complete 65 years of age. Master's Degree with B.Ed (having 55% 
 marks)

 Note:­
 (I) Ph.D/M.Phil (preferably Ph.D. in Education/  
 Educational Planning and Management) shall
 be given special weightage. (ii) Candidates having B.Ed. Degree of two 
 years duration shall be given special 
 weightage. As prescribed by State Government / UT 
 rAdministration concerned. As   prescribed   by   State   Government/UT

 Administration concerned. 4.4 Terms and conditions of service (a)       The   appointment   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of
 recommendations   of   the   Selection   Committee
 constituted as per the policy of the UGC/Affiliating
 University. (b)  All appointments are to be made on full­time and
 regular   basis   excepting   those   specified   as   part­
 time. (c)  Appointment   of   part­time   instructors   and   other
 supporting staff shall be made as per norms of the
 concerned University/UGC. ­32­ (d)  The   academic   staff   of   the   institutions   (including
 part­time  staff)  shall  be paid  such salary in such
 scale   of   pay   as   may   be   prescribed   by   the
 UGC/University from time to time, through account
 payee   cheque   or   as   per   advice   into   the   bank
 account   of   employee   specially   opened   for   the

 . purpose. The supporting staff shall be paid as per

 the   UGC/State   Government/Central   Government
 pay scale structure. (e)  The management of the institution shall discharge
 the   statutory   duties   relating   to   pension,   gratuity,
 provident fund, etc. for its employees. (f)  The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be

 determined by the policy of concerned Government. (g)  The   reservation   for   SC/ST/OBC   and   other
 categories shall be as per the rules of the Central

 Government/State Government. As regards facilities, the same were also provided

 under Clause 5 and reads thus:­ 5.  Facilities
 5.1  Infrastructure

    5.1.1 The institution must have at least 2500 sq. mtrs. Land   whereupon   built­up   area   consisting   of

 classrooms   etc.   shall   not   be   less   than   1500   sq.
 mtrs. Space in each instructional room shall be 10
 sq. ft. per student. 38 Built   up   Area   for   running   other   courses   in

 combination with B.Ed. Programme shall be as under:­

 Only B.Ed. ­ 1500 Sq. mts. 5.1.2.There   shall   be   provision   for   not   less   than   two
 classrooms,   one   multipurpose   hall,   three ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:16 :::HCHP ­33­

 laboratories   for   conducting   instructional   activities
 for   approved   intake   of   100   students,
 seminar/tutorial   rooms,   resource   room   for   the
 education   of   children   with   disability,   separate
 rooms for the Principal, for the faculty members, for
 the office and the administrative staff and a store. . In   every   instructional   room   like   classrooms,

 laboratories,   library   etc.   space   shall   not   be   less
 than   10   sq.   ft.   per   student.   One   classroom   shall
 comfortably accommodate 50 student teachers. The

 Multi­purpose Hall shall have a seating capacity for
 150   persons.   For   additional   intake   proportional
 increase   in   the   number   of   classrooms,   tutorial
 rooms, etc.

 5.1.3 There shall be games facilities with a playground. Alternatively,   the   playground   available   with   the
 attached school/college may be utilized and where
 there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   the   metropolitan

 towns/hilly regions, facilities for yoga, small court
 and indoor games may be provided. 5.1.4   Safeguard   against   fire   hazard   be   provided   in   all
 parts of the building. 5.1.5   The   institution   campus,   buildings,   furniture   etc.
 should be barrier free. 5.1.6   Hostel   for   boys   and   girls   separately   and   some
 residential quarters are desirable. 5.2  Instructional (a) The institution shall have easy access to sufficient

 number   of   recognized   secondary   schools   within
 reasonable   distance   for   field   work   and   practice
 teaching related activities of the students teachers.
 A   list   of   such   schools   shall   be   prepared.   It   is
 desirable   that   the   institution   has   an   attached
 school under its control (b) There shall be a library­cum­reading room with
 seating capacity for at least 25% students equipped
 with   minimum   1000   titles   and   3000   books
 including text and reference books relevant to the
 course   of   study,   educational   encyclopedias,   year
 books,   electronic   publications   (CD   Roms)   and
 minimum   five   journals   of   teacher   education   and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:16 :::HCHP ­34­

 subscription   to   five   others   in   related   disciplines.
 The   library   holdings   shall   be   augmented   with
 addition   of   200   titles   annually.   The   library   shall
 have   photocopying   facility   and   computer   with
 internet facility for the use of faculty and student­
 teachers. . (c) There shall be a science laboratory. The laboratory
 shall   have   multiple   sets   of   science   apparatus
 required   to   perform   and   demonstrate   the

 experiments   prescribed   in   the   syllabus   for
 secondary/senior   secondary   classes.   Chemicals,
 etc. should be provided in the required quantity. (d)   There   shall   be   a   Psychology   Laboratory   with

 apparatus   for   simple   experiments   related   to
 educational psychology. (e) There shall be hardware and software facilities for
 rlanguage learning. (f) There shall be Educational Technology facilities with
 hardware   and   software   including   computers,   TV,
 Camera. (g)   The   ICT   like   ROT   (Received   Only   Terminal),   SIT
 (Satellite   Interlinking   Terminal)   etc.   shall   be
 desirable. (h)   There   shall   be   a   fully   furnished   work   experience
 room. 5.3 Amenities

 5.3.1  Functional   and  appropriate  furniture  in  required
 number for instructional and other purposes. 5.3.2   The   institution   shall   provide   separate   common
 rooms   for   male   and   female   teacher
 educators/students­teachers. 5.3.3 Sufficient number of toilets, separate for male
 and female, shall be made available for staff and
 students. 5.3.4 Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. ­35­

 5.3.5 Safe drinking water be provided in the institution. 5.3.6   Effective   arrangement   be   made   for   regular
 cleaning   of   campus,   water   and   toilet   facilities,
 repair   and   replacement   of   furniture   and   other
 equipments. . 39 However, it needs to be noticed that vide Clause 7,

 it was clearly provided that if more than one course in teacher

 education   are   run   by   the   same   institution   in   the   same   or

 adjacent   building,   the   facilities   of   playground,   multipurpose

 hall,   library   and   laboratory   (with   proportionate   addition   of

 books and equipments) and instructional space can be shared. 40 As   regards   the   norms   and   standards   for

 Elementary Teacher Education Programme leading to Diploma

 in Education   (D.Ed.), the same were issued in the year 2007. The   regulations   of   2005   were   thereafter   superseded   by   the

 regulations of 2007 and in Appendix 2, norms and standards

 for   Elementary   Teacher   Education   Programme   leading   to

 Diploma   in   Education     (D.Ed.)   was   provided   for   and   under

 Clause 3 thereof it was provided that there would be basic unit

 of 50 students for each year. However, the provisions of staff

 were contained in Clause 4, which reads thus:­

 "4.0 Staff
 4.1 Academic
 4.1.a (i) Number (For a basic unit of 50 students or less
 with   combined   strength   of   100   or   less   for   the   2   year
 course) ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:16 :::HCHP ­36­

 Principal ­ 1
 Lecturers - 5

 4.1.a   (ii)   For   additional   intake   which   will   be   in   the
 multiple of 50 students, the number of full time

 . teacher   educators   shall   be   increased   by   three. However on each occasion additional  intake  of
 one basic unit shall be considered. 4.1.a   (iii)   Appointment   of   teachers   shall   be   such   as   to
 ensure   the   availability   of   expertise   for   all
 methodology courses and foundation courses. 4.1. ( b) Qualifications (i) Principal (a)   Academic   and   professional   qualification   will   be   as
 prescribed for the post of lecturer; and (b)   5   years'   experience   of   teaching   in   an   elementary

 teacher education institution. (ii) Lecturer

 M.Ed. Or
 M.A.   (Education)   with   either   B.Ed.   or   B.El.Ed.   with  

 55%  marks
 Or 
 Masters   degree   in   any   subject   with   either   D.Ed   or  

 B.El.Ed. with 55% of  marks. Note: ­ Candidates having B.Ed degree of two years   
      duration shall be given special weightage. 4.2 Technical Support Staff (a) Number

 • Librarian­ 1 (full­time)
 • Art (Fine Arts/performing Art/Music­1 (Part­  time)
 • Health & Physical Education - 1 (Part­time)
 • Work experience ­ 1 (Part­time) (b) Qualifications ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:16 :::HCHP ­37­

 As   prescribed   concerned   by   State   Government   /   UT
 Administration concerned. 4.3 Administrative Staff (a) Number

 . (i) UDC/Office Superintendent­1 (Regular) (ii) Computer Operator­cum­Store keeper - 1 (Regular) (iii) Helpers­2 (Regular) (b) Qualifications
 As   prescribed   by   State   Government/UT   Administration
 concerned. 4.4 Terms and conditions of service (h)   The   appointment   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of
 recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted

 as   per   the   policy   of   the   Central/concerned   State

 Government/Board whichever is applicable. (i)   All   appointments   are   to   be   made   on   full­time   and
 regular basis excepting those specified as part­time. (j)   Appointment   of   part­time   instructors   and   other
 supporting   staff   shall   be   made   as   per   norms   of   the
 concerned Government. (k) The academic and other staff of the institutions shall
 be   paid   such   salary   as   may   be   prescribed   by   the

 concerned   Government   by   account   payee   cheque   or   as
 per   advice   into   the   bank   account   of   the   employee,
 specially opened for the purpose. (l) The management of the institution shall discharge the
 statutory   duties   relating   to   pension,   gratuity,   provident
 fund, etc. for its employees. (m)The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be
 determined by the policy of concerned Government. (n) The reservation for SC/ST/OBC and other categories
 shall   be   as   per   the   rules   of   the   Central   Government   /
 State Government." ­38­

 41 As   regards   the   facilities,   the   provision   was

 contained in Clause 5, which reads thus:­

 "5.0 Facilities

 . 5.1 Infrastructure

 5.1.1   The   institution   must   have   at   least   1500   sq.   mts.
 land   whereupon   built­up   area   consisting   of   classrooms
 etc. shall not be less than 1000 sq. mts. Space in each

 instructional room shall be 10 sq.ft. per student. Built   up   Area   for   running   other   courses   in   combination
 with D.Ed programme shall be as under:­

 Only D.Ed.­ 1000 Sq mts. B.Ed. plus D.Ed. ­ 2500 Sq.mts. B.Ed. plus D.Ed. and M.Ed. ­ 3000 Sq.mts. 5.1.2   There   shall   be   provision   for   two   classrooms,   one

 multi­purpose   hall,   one   multi­purpose   laboratory,
 seminar/tutorial   rooms,   resource   room   for   education   of
 children with disability, separate rooms for the Principal,
 for   the   faculty   members,   for   the   office   and   for   the
 administrative staff and a store. Appropriate space shall

 be   provided   for   Music,   Art,   Drama,   Work   Experience
 activities.  For every instructional  room  like   class  rooms,
 laboratory,   library   etc.   space   shall   not   be   less   than   10

 sq.ft.   per   student.   Multi­purpose   hall   shall   have   the
 seating capacity for 150 persons. 5.1.3. There shall be games facilities with a playground.
 Alternatively, the playground available with the attached
 school or local body may be utilized exclusively for fixed

 periods.   Where   there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in
 metropolitan towns/hilly regions, facilities for small court
 games, yoga and indoor games may be provided. 5.1.4.   Safeguard   against   fire   hazard   be   provided   in   all
 parts of the building. 5.1.5.   The   institutional   campus,   building,   furniture   etc.
 should be barrier free. 5.1.6.   Hostel   for   boys   and   girls   separately   and   some
 residential quarters are desirable. ­39­

 5.2.  Instructional (a)   The   institution   shall   have   easy   access   to   sufficient
 number (5­10) of recognized schools for practice teaching.
 The   school   should   be   within   the   radius   of   10   kms.   of
 recognized elementary schools for field work and practice

 . teaching   related   activities   of   student   teachers.   A   list   of

 such schools shall be prepared. It is desirable that it has
 an attached elementary school of its own. (b) There shall be a multi­purpose educational laboratory
 with   psychology   and   science   sections,   and   a   workshop
 attached to it. (c) The science section shall have the apparatus required

 to demonstrate all the experiments as per the syllabus of
 elementary schools. (d)   The   psychology   section   shall   have   facilities   for

 observation   of   children,   counseling   &   guidance,
 Personality and Interest Inventories. (e)   There   shall   be   hardware   and   software   facilities   for
 language learning. (f)  There  shall  be  an   Educational  Technology  laboratory
 with   hardware   for   projection   and   duplication   and
 educational  software, required  for imparting Information

 Technology (IT) literacy, including TV, Camera etc. (g)   ROT   (Received   Only   Terminal)   and   SIT   (Satellite

 Interlinking Terminal) shall be desirable. (h) There shall be a library equipped with minimum 2000

 titles   including   text   and   reference   books   related   to   the
 prescribed   course   of   study,   educational   encyclopedias,
 year   books,   electronic   publications   (CD   Roms)   and   five
 educational journals on elementary education and related
 subjects.   It   should   be   augmented   with   addition   of   200
 titles   annually.   The   library   shall   have   photocopying
 facility and computers with internet facility for the use of
 faculty and student - teachers. (i) There shall be an Art and Music section, equipped with
 art   paper,   boards,   brushes,   colours   etc.   for   visual   art,
 simple   musical   instruments   such   as   harmonium,   tabla,
 flute,   mridanga,   other   local   popular   instruments, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:16 :::HCHP ­40­

 costumes and accessories for staging dance and drama
 performance, curtains and other accessories. 5.3.Amenities

 5.3.1   Functional   and   appropriate   furniture   in   required

 . number for instructional and other purposes. 5.3.2   The   institution   shall   provide   separate   common
 rooms  for male  and  female  teacher educators/students­

 teachers. 5.3.3 Sufficient number of toilets, separate for male and
 female, shall be made available for staff and students. 5.3.4 Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles.
 5.3.5 Safe drinking water be provided in the institution.
 5.3.6 Effective arrangement be made for regular cleaning
 of   campus,   water   and   toilet   facilities,   repair   and

 replacement of furniture and other equipment." 42 Here again in Clause 7, it was clearly provided that

 if one or more than one courses in teacher education are run by

 the   same   institution,   the   same   building,   the   facilities   of

 playground,   multipurpose   hall,   library   and   laboratory   (with

 proportionate   addition   of   books   and   equipments)   and

 instructional space can be shared. 43 Likewise,   the   norms   and   standards   of   Secondary

 Teacher   Education   programme   leading   to   Bachelor   of

 Education   Degree   (B.Ed.)   were   contained   in   Appendix   4   of

 Regulations,   2007,   wherein   the   duration   of   B.Ed.   was

 stipulated to be of at least one year. It was provided that the

 basic unit would be of 100 students divided into two sections of

 50 each  for general sessions and not more than 25 students ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:17 :::HCHP ­41­

 per teacher for a school subject for methods courses and other

 practical activities of the programme to facilitate participatory

 teaching and learning. . 44 As regards staff, the provisions thereof provided in

 Clause 5 which reads thus:­

 "5. Staff

 4.1 Academic

 4.1 a.(i)  Number (For a basic unit of 100 students)

 Principal/Head ­1
 Lecturers - 7

   4.1. a.(ii) For additional intake will be in the multiple of

 100   and   the   number   of   full   time   teacher
 educators   shall   be   increased   by   seven   for
 each increase in the basic unit. However on
 each occasion additional intake of one basic

 unit shall be considered. 4.1. a. (iii) Appointment of teachers shall be such as to
 ensure   the   availability   of   expertise   for

 teaching   all   foundation   and   methodology
 courses   i.e.   Arts,   Science   and   Commerce

 stream. 4.1.b. Qualifications (i) Principal/Head (in multi­faculty institution):­ (a) Academic and professional qualification will be as  
 prescribed for the post of lecturer; and (b)   Five   years   experience   of   teaching   in   a   Secondary  
 Level Teacher Training Institution. Note:   In   the   event   of   non­availability   of   eligible   and
 suitable   candidates   for   appointment   as
 Principal/Head   as   per   above   eligibility   criteria,   it
 would   be   permissible   to   appoint   retired
 Professor/Head in Education on contract basis for ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:17 :::HCHP ­42­

 a period not exceeding one year at a time till such
 time the candidates complete 65 years of age. (ii)  Lecturer:­

 Master's Degree with M.Ed. . Or

 Master's Degree with B.Ed (having 55% marks)

 Note:­ (i)  Ph.D/M.Phil (preferably Ph.D. in 
 Education/Educational Planning and Management)
 shall be given special weight age. (ii)  Candidates having B.Ed. Degree of two years 
 duration shall be given special weightage. 4.2 Technical Support Staff (a)  Number

 Full time Teachers (i) Art Education In the event of inadequate (ii)   Health   and   Physical work   it   would   be
 Education permissible   to   appoint (iii) Work Experience part time teachers against (iv) ICT (v) Librarian Full Time (vi) Technical Assistant Full Time (b)  Qualifications

 As prescribed by State Government/UT Administration  
 concerned. As prescribed by State Government/UT Administration  
 concerned. 4.4 Terms and conditions of service

 . (a)   The   appointment   shall   be   made   on   the   basis   of  
 recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted
 as per the policy of the UGC/Affiliating University. (b)  All  appointments  are   to  be  made   on full­time   and  
 regular basis excepting those specified as part­time. (c)   Appointment   of   part­time   instructors   and   other  

 supporting   staff   shall   be   made   as   per   norms   of   the  
 concerned University/UGC. (d) The academic staff of the institutions (including part­

 time staff) shall be paid such salary in such scale of
 pay as may be prescribed by the UGC/University from

 time to time, through account payee cheque or as per
 advice   into   the   bank   account   of   employee   specially
 opened for the purpose. The supporting staff shall be
 paid   as   per   the   UGC/State   Government/Central

 Government pay scale structure. (e)   The   management   of   the   institution   shall   discharge

 the   statutory   duties   relating   to   pension,   gratuity,
 provident fund, etc. for its employees. f)   The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be
 determined by the policy of concerned Government. (g) The reservation for SC/ST/OBC and other categories
 shall   be   as   per   the   rules   of   the   Central
 Government/State Government." 45 The facilities to be provided by the institution were

 prescribed in Clause 5 which reads thus:­

 "5.  Facilities

 5.1  Infrastructure ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:17 :::HCHP ­44­

 5.1.1 The institution must have at least 2500 sq. mts. land   whereupon   built­up   area   consisting   of
 classrooms etc. shall not be less than 1500 sq. mts.
 Space in each instructional room shall be 10 sq. ft.
 per student. . Built up Area for running other courses in combination  

 with B.Ed. Programme shall be as under:­

 Only B.Ed. ­ 1500 Sq. mts. 5.1.2. There shall be provision for not less than two

 classrooms,   one   multipurpose   hall,   three
 laboratories   for   conducting   instructional   activities
 for   approved   intake   of   100   students,
 seminar/tutorial   rooms,   resource   room   for   the
 reducation   of   children   with   disability,   separate
 rooms for the Principal, for the faculty members, for

 the office and the administrative staff and a store.
 In   every   instructional   room   like   classrooms,
 laboratories,   library   etc.   space   shall   not   be   less
 than   10   sq.   ft.   per   student.   One   classroom   shall

 comfortably accommodate 50 student teachers. The
 Multi­purpose Hall shall have a seating capacity for
 150   persons.   For   additional   intake   proportional

 increase   in   the   number   of   classrooms,   tutorial
 rooms, etc.

 5.1.3 There shall be games facilities with a playground. Alternatively,   the   playground   available   with   the
 attached school/college may be utilized and where

 there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   the   metropolitan
 towns/hilly regions, facilities for yoga, small court
 and indoor games may be provided. 5.1.4 Safeguard against fire hazard be provided in all
 parts of the building. 5.1.5   The   institution   campus,   buildings,   furniture   etc.
 should be barrier free. 5.1.6   Hostel   for   boys   and   girls   separately   and   some
 residential quarters are desirable. ­45­

 5.2  Instructional (a)   The institution shall have easy access to sufficient
 number   of   recognized   secondary   schools   within
 reasonable   distance   for   field   work   and   practice
 teaching related activities of the students teachers. . A   list   of   such   schools   shall   be   prepared.   It   is

 desirable   that   the   institution   has   an   attached
 school under its control. (b) There shall be a library­cum­reading room with
 seating capacity for at least 25% students equipped
 with   minimum   1000   titles   and   3000   books
 including text and reference books relevant to the
 course   of   study,   educational   encyclopedias,   year

 books,   electronic   publications   (CD   Roms)   and
 minimum   five   journals   of   teacher   education   and
 subscription   to   five   others   in   related   disciplines.
 The   library   holdings   shall   be   augmented   with
 raddition   of   200   titles   annually.   The   library   shall
 have   photocopying   facility   and   computer   with

 INTERNET   facility   for   the   use   of   faculty   and
 student­teachers. (c) There shall be a science laboratory. The laboratory

 shall   have   multiple   sets   of   science   apparatus
 required   to   perform   and   demonstrate   the
 experiments   prescribed   in   the   syllabus   for

 secondary/senior   secondary   classes.   Chemicals,
 etc. should be provided in the required quantity. (d)   There   shall   be   a   Psychology   Laboratory   with
 apparatus   for   simple   experiments   related   to
 educational psychology. (e)   There shall be hardware and software facilities for
 language learning. (f)         There   shall   be   Educational   Technology   facilities
 with hardware and software including computers,
 TV, Camera. (g)     The   ICT   like   ROT   (Received   Only   Terminal),   SIT
 (Satellite   Interlinking   Terminal)   etc.   shall   be
 desirable. ­46­ (h)     There   shall   be   a   fully   furnished   work   experience
 room. 5.3 Amenities

 5.3.1   Functional   and   appropriate   furniture   in   required

 . number for instructional and other purposes. 5.3.2   The   institution   shall   provide   separate   common
 rooms   for   male   and   female   teacher

 educators/students­teachers. 5.3.3Sufficient number of toilets, separate for male and
 female,   shall   be   made   available   for   staff   and
 students. 5.3.4 Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. 5.3.5 Safe drinking water be provided in the institution. 5.3.6   Effective   arrangement   be   made   for   regular

 cleaning   of   campus,   water   and   toilet   facilities,
 repair   and   replacement   of   furniture   and   other
 equipments." 46 Here again Clause 7 clearly provided that if more

 than   one   courses   in   teacher   education   are   run   by   the   same

 institution   in   the   same   or   adjacent   building,   the   facilities   of

 playground,   multipurpose   hall,   library   and   laboratory   (with

 proportionate   addition   of   books   and   equipments)   and

 instructional space can be shared. 47 However, the Regulations of 2007 were superseded

 by   Regulations   of   2009   which   were   issued   vide   notification

 dated 31.08.2009. ­47­

 48 Appendix   2   of   the   Regulations,   2009   prescribed

 the   norms   and   standards   for   Elementary   Teacher   Education

 Programme   leading   to   Diploma   in   Elementary   Education

 . (D.El.Ed.) wherein it was provided that the basic unit was of 50

 students for each year, whereas Clause 4 provides for the staff,

 which reads thus:­

 "4 Staff

 (I) Academic (i) Number (For a basic unit of fifty students or less with 
 combined strength of one hundred or less for the two  
 year course)

 Principal ­ One
 Lecturers ­ Six (ii) For additional intake of fifty students, the additional 

 staff shall comprise five full time lecturers, one Library 
 Assistant and one Office Assistant. However, on each  
 occasion   additional   intake   of   one   basic   unit   shall   be  
 considered and the total number of students combined  

 for all teacher education courses shall not exceed three 
 hundred. (iii) Appointment of teachers shall be such as to ensure
 the availability of expertise for all methodology courses

 and foundation courses. (II) Qualifications (i) Principal (a) Academic and professional qualification will be
 as prescribed for the post of lecturer; and (b) Five years' experience of teaching in primary or
 elementary teacher education institution. M.Ed./M.Ed. (Elementary) with fifty five percent 
 marks. . Or

 M.Ed./M.Ed. (Elementary) with fifty five percent 
 marks. Or

 M.A. in Education with fifty five percent marks and
 Diploma/Degree in primary/ Elementary Education
 with 55% marks. Proficiency in the use of ICT for educational (b) Methodology Courses

 A Essential
  
 Master's degree in any school teaching subject with fifty
 five   percent   marks   and   Diploma/Degree   in

 Education/Primary   Education   with   fifty   five   percent
 marks. (ii) Proficiency in the use of ICT for educational  

 purpose. Post graduation in Fine Arts/Music/Dance 
 with fifty five percent marks. Masters degree in physical Education 

 (M.P.Ed.) with fifty five percent marks. Desirable

 Degree in CEC/Education

 At least one lecturer should possess formal qualification 
 in   computer   science   /   Applications   besides   the  

 prescribed academic and professional qualifications. Bachelor degree in Library and Information Science
 with fifty five percentage marks. (III) Administrative Staff (a)  Number (i) UDC/Office Superintendent ­ One (Regular) (ii) Computer Operator­cum­ Store keeper

 ­ One (Regular) (b) Qualifications

 As   prescribed   by   State   Government/UT
 Administration concerned. (IV) Terms and conditions of service (a) The appointment shall be made on the basis of
 recommendations   of   the   Selection   Committee
 constituted   as   per   the   policy   of   the
 Central/concerned   State   Government/Board
 whichever is applicable (b)All appointments are to be made on full­time and
 regular basis. ­50­ (c) Appointment of staff shall be made as per norms
 of the concerned Government. (d) The academic and other staff of the institutions
 shall be paid such salary as may be prescribed by
 the   concerned   Government   for   equivalent   posts   in

 . the   state   education   system   by   account   payee

 cheque or as per advice into the bank account of the
 employee, specially opened for the purpose. (e)   The   management   of   the   institution   shall
 discharge  the   statutory   duties   relating   to  pension,
 gratuity, provident fund, etc. for its employees. (f)   The   age   of   superannuation   of   staff   shall   be

 determined by the policy of concerned Government. (g)   The   reservation   for   SC/ST/OBC   and   other
 categories shall be as per the rules of the Central
 r Government/State Government." 49 As   regards   the   provisions   of   facilities,   the   same

 were contained in Clause 5 and read thus:­

 "5.  Facilities

 (1) Infrastructure (a)   The   institution   shall   possess   2500   sq.   mts.   (two

 thousand five hundred square meters) of exclusive well
 demarcated land for the initial intake of fifty students
 out of which 1500 sq.mts. (one thousand five hundred
 square   meters)   shall   be   the   built   up   area   and   the

 remaining   space   for   lawns,   playfields   etc.   For   an
 additional intake of fifty students or part thereof it shall
 possess   additional   land   of   500   sqm.   (five   hundred
 square   meters).   For   an   annual   intake   beyond   two
 hundred and upto three hundred, it shall possess land
 of 3000  sqm. (three thousand  square meters). For the
 institutions established prior to this Regulation, for an
 additional   intake   of   fifty,   the   built   up   area   is   to   be
 increased   by   500   sqm.   (five   hundred   square   meters)
 and   requirement   of   additional   land   may   not   apply   to
 them. Total intake capacity of an institution taking into
 account all the teacher education courses together must
 not   exceed   three   hundred.   However,   Physical   teacher ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:18 :::HCHP ­51­

 education   courses   are   to   be   offered   in   a   separate
 campus. (b)   Built   up   Area   for   running   other   courses   in  
 combination  with D.El.Ed. programme shall be as  
 under:­

 . Additional intake of one unit of D.Ed.Ed. will require 
 additional   built   up   area   of   500   sqm.   (five   hundred  
 square metres). (c)   The   institution   must   have   the   following  

 infrastructure:­ (i) Two classrooms. (ii)   Multipurpose   Hall   with   seating   capacity   of   two
 hundred   with   dais   with   total   area   of   2000   sq.   ft   (two

 thousand square feet). (iii) Library­cum­Reading Room (iv)Resource Centre for ET/ICT (v) Psychology Resource Centre (vi) Arts and Craft Resource Centre (vii) Health and Physical Education Resource Centre (viii) Science and Mathematics Resource Centre (ix) Principal's Office (x) Staff Room (xi) Administrative Office (xii) Store Rooms (Two) (xiii) Girls Common Room (xiv) Canteen (xv) Visitors Room
 (xvi) Separate Toilet Facility for Boys and Girls
 (xvii) Parking Space
 (xviii) Open space for lawns, gardening activities, etc. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:18 :::HCHP ­52­

 (xix) Store Room
 (xx) Multipurpose play field (d)   There   shall   be   games   facilities   with   a   play   ground.
 Alternatively, the playground available with the attached
 school or local body may be utilized exclusively for fixed

 . periods.   Where   there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in

 metropolitan towns/hilly regions, facilities for small court
 games, yoga and indoor games may be provided. (e) Safeguard against fire hazard be provided in all parts
 of the building. (f) The institutional campus, building, furniture etc. should
 be barrier free. r to (g)   Hostel   for   boys   and   girls   separately   and   some
 residential quarters are desirable. (h) The institutional campus, building furniture etc. should
 be disabled friendly. (2) Instructional (a) The institution shall have easy access to sufficient

 number   of   recognized   elementary   schools   for   field   work
 and   practice   teaching   related   activities   of   student
 teachers. It is desirable that it has an attached primary

 school   of   its   own.   The   institution   shall   furnish
 undertaking   from   the   schools   wiling   to   provide   facilities
 for practice teaching. (b)   The   institution   shall   establish   Learning   Resource
 Centres   as   given   in   5.0(1)(b)   wherein   teachers   and

 students   have   access   to   a   variety   of   materials   and
 resources   to   support   and   enhance   the   teaching­learning
 process. These should include: ­53­

 Note:While   developing   the   resource   centres,   the
 institutions are advised to consult the 'Manual for Teacher
 Education Institutions' brought out by NCTE. (c) Equipment and Materials for different activities

 . (i) Teaching­Learning Material and Aids

 The   equipment   and   materials   should   be   suitable   and
 sufficient   in   quality   and   quantity   for   the   variety   of

 activities   planned   in   the   programme.   These   include   the
 following:­

 Educational kits, models, play materials, simple books on
 different topics (songs, games, activities, and worksheet),

 puppets,   picture   books,   photographs,   blow­ups,   charts,
 maps   flash   cards,   handbooks,   pictures,   pictorial
 representations   of   developmental   characteristics   of
 children. (d) Equipment, Tools, Raw material for teaching aids, play

 material and Arts and Crafts Activities. One set of wood working tools, one set of gardeners' tools,
 raw   materials   and   equipment   required   for   toy   making,

 doll making, tailoring, dress designing, puppetry, material
 for   preparation   of   charts,   models   and   other   practical
 activities to be done by the student teacher - art material,

 waste   material,   stationery   (chart   paper,   mount   board
 etc.), tools like scissors, scales etc., cloth. (e) Audio Visual Equipment

 As   mentioned   in   5.0(1)(f),   Hardware   for   projection   and

 duplication   and   educational   software   facilities   including
 TV,   DVD   Player,   slide   projector,   blank   audio   video
 cassettes,   video­audio   tapes,   slides,   films,   charts,
 pictures,   ROT   (Receive   Only   Terminal)   and   SIT   (Satellite
 Interlinking Terminal) would be desirable. (f) Musical instruments

 Simple musical instruments such as Harmonium, Tabla,
 Flute, Manjira and other indigenous instruments. (g) Books, Journals and Magazines ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:18 :::HCHP ­54­

 A minimum of one thousand books on relevant subjects
 should be available during the first year of establishment
 of   the   institution   and   one   hundred   standard   books   be
 added every year. The collection of books should include
 children's   encyclopedias,   dictionaries,   reference   books,
 books   on   professional   education,   teachers'   handbooks,

 . books   on   and   for   children   (including   comics,   stories,

 picture   books/albumbs,   and   poems)   and   the   books
 published   and   recommended   by   NCTE.   The   institution
 should   subscribe   to   the   journals   published   by   NCTE   at

 least three other journals in the field of Education. (h) Games and Sports

 Adequate games and sports equipment for common indoor

 and outdoor games should be available. r3. Amenities (i)   Functional   and   appropriate   furniture   in   required
 number for instructional and other purposes. (ii) The institution shall provide separate common rooms
 for male and female teacher educators/students­teachers. (iii) Sufficient number of toilets, separate male and female,
 shall be made available for staff and students. (iv) Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. (v) Safe drinking water be provided in the institution (vi) Effective arrangement be made for regular cleaning of
 campus,   water   and   toilet   facilities,   repair   and

 replacement of furniture and other equipment. (vii) The institution's campus building, facility etc. should
 be disabled friendly." 50 Here again Clause 7(a) prescribes that if more than

 one   course     in   teacher   education   are   run   by   the   same

 institution   in   the   same   campus,   the   facilities   of   playground,

 multipurpose   hall,   library   and   laboratory   (with   proportionate ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:18 :::HCHP ­55­

 addition of books and equipments) and instructional space can

 be   shared.   Not   only   this,   the   institution   could   have   one

 Principal for  entire institution and common Heads for different

 . teacher education programmes offered in the institution. 51 Noticeably,   this   was   the   first   time   that   the

 regulations   provided   for   the   details   of   the   infrastructure   in

 Clause   5   as   reproduced   above,   but   unfortunately   the

 regulations   nowhere   provided  for the   minimum  area  required

 for the infrastructures so specified. 52 Appendix   4   of   the   Regulations,   2009,   contained

 the norms and standards for Bachelor of Education Programme

 leading to Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) Degree, the duration

 thereof   again   was   at   least   of   one   academic   year   or   two

 semesters. 53 The   basis   unit   was   to   be   that   of   100   students

 divided into two sections of fifty each for general sessions and

 not   more   than   twenty   five   students   per   teacher   for   a   school

 subject for methodology courses and other practical activities of

 the programme to facilitate participatory teaching and learning. 54 Clause 4 thereof related to staff and reproduced as

 under:­

 "4 Staff

 (I) Academic ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:18 :::HCHP ­56­ (i) Number (For a basic unit of hundred students)

 Principal ­ One
 Lecturers ­ Seven

 . (ii) For additional intake will be in the multiple of

 one   hundred   and  the  number   of  full   time   teacher
 educator   shall   be   increased   by   seven   for   each
 increase   in   the   basic   unit.   However,   on   each

 occasion additional intake of one basic unit shall be
 considered.   Also   maximum   intake   capacity   of   a
 teacher   training   institution   taking   all   teacher
 education   courses   together   shall   not   exceed   three
 hundred. (iii)   Appointment   of   teachers   shall   be   such   as   to
 ensure the availability of expertise for teaching all
 foundation and methodology courses. (II) Qualifications (i) Principal/Head (in multi­faculty institution):­ (a) Academic and professional qualification will be

 as prescribed for the post of lecturer; and (b) Ph.D in Education. (c) Ten years teaching experience out  of which at
 least   five  years   teaching  experience   in Secondary

 Teacher Education Institution. Note:­ In the even of non­availability of eligible and

 suitable   candidates   for   appointment   as
 Principal/Head   as   per   above   eligibility   criteria,   it
 would   be   permissible   to   appoint   retired
 Professor/Head in Education on contract basis for
 a period not exceeding one year at a time till such
 time the candidates complete 65 years of age. (i) Master's Degree in science/humanities/arts with
 fifty percent marks. ­57­ (ii) M.Ed. with at least fifty five percent marks or its
 equivalent grade and (iii)  Any other stipulation prescribed  by the  UGC/
 affiliating   body/   State   Govt.   from   time   to   time   for

 . the   positions   of   principal   and   lecturers   shall   be

 mandatory. OR (i) M.A. in Education with fifty five percent marks or

 its equivalent grade (ii) B. Ed. With at least fifty five percent marks and (iii) Any other stipulation prescribed by the UGC /

 affiliating body / State Govt. from time to time for
 the   position   of   principal   and   lecturers   shall   be
 mandatory. r (b) Methodology Courses   Six

 (I) Master's degree in a school subject with fifty five
 percent marks (ii)   M.Ed.   Degree   with   at   least   fifty   five   percent

 marks or its equivalent grade and (iii) Any other stipulation prescribed by the UGC /

 affiliating body / State Govt. from time to time for
 the   position   of   principal   and   lecturers   shall   be
 mandatory. (c) Lecturer in Fine Arts/Performing Arts One

 (Fine Arts/Performing Art)  (Part time)

 Master's degree in Fine Arts / Music fifty five
 percent marks. (d) Director of physical Education (D.P.E.)
 One  (Part time)

 Master's degree in physical Education with  
 fifty  five percent  marks. ­58­

 Note: (1) At least one lecturer should have 
 specialization in ICT and another in the 
 special education. Bachelor's degree in Library and Information 
 Science (with fifty five percent marks). As   prescribed   by   State   Government/UT
 Administration concerned. (IV) Terms and conditions of service (a)   The   appointment   of   these   positions   shall   be
 made   on   the   basis   of   recommendations   of   the
 Selection Committee constituted as per the policy of

 the UGC/the Affiliating University/Affiliating Body. (b) All appointments are to be made on full­time
 and regular basis excepting those specified as part­
 time. (c)  Appointment   of   part­time   instructors   and
 other supporting staff shall be made as per norms
 of the concerned University/UGC. (d) The   academic   and   other   staff   of   the
 institution (including part­time staff)   shall be paid
 such   salary   in   such   scale   of   pay   as   may   be ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:19 :::HCHP ­59­

 prescribed by the UGC/University from time to time,
 through account payee cheque or as per advice into
 the bank account of employee specially opened for
 the purpose. The supporting staff shall be paid as
 per   the   UGC/State   Government/Central
 Government pay scale structure. . (e) The   management   of   the   institution   shall
 discharge  the   statutory   duties   relating   to  pension,
 gratuity, provident fund, etc. for its employees. (f) The age of superannuation of staff shall be
 determined by the policy of concerned Government. (g)   The   reservation   for   SC/ST/OBC   and   other

 categories shall be as per the rules of the Central
 Government/State Government." 55 As   regards   facilities   to   be   provided   by   the

 institution,the same were contained in Clause 5, which reads

 thus:­

 "5.  Facilities

 (I) Infrastructure (a)   The   institution   shall   possess   2500   sq.   mts.   (two
 thousand   five   hundred   square   meters)   of   exclusive   well

 demarcated   land   for   the   initial   intake   of   one   hundred
 students   out   of   which   1500   sq.mts.   (one   thousand   five
 hundred square meters) shall be the built up area and the

 remaining   space   for   lawns,   playfields   etc.   For   an
 additional intake of one hundred students or part thereof
 it shall possess additional land of 500 sqm. (five hundred
 square meters). For an annual intake beyond two hundred
 and   upto   three   hundred,   it   shall   possess   land   of   3500
 sqm. (three thousand square meters). For the institutions
 established   prior   to   this   Regulation,   for   an   additional
 intake   of   one   hundred   students,   built   up   area   is   to   be
 increased by 500 sqm (five hundred square meters) and
 requirement   of   additional   land   may   not   apply   to   them.
 Total intake capacity of an institution taking into account
 all the teacher education courses together must not exceed
 three hundred students. Separate land and built up area
 is required for physical teacher education courses. ­60­ (b) Built up Area for running other courses in combination
 with B.Ed. programme shall be as under:­

 Built   up   area Land   Area
 (in sqm) (in sqm.)

 . Additional intake of one unit of B.Ed will require 

 additional built up area of 500 sqm. (five hundred 
 square metres). (iii) Facilities 

 The   institution   must   have   the   following  
 infrastructure:­ (a) Two classrooms. (b) Multipurpose Hall with seating capacity of 200 and a

 dais 2000 sq. ft)i (c) Library­cum­Reading Room (d) ICT Resource Centre (e) Psychology Resource Centre (f) Arts and Craft Resource centre (g) Health and Physical Education Resource Centre (h) Science and Mathematics Resource Centre (i) Principal's Office (j) Staff Room (k) Administrative Office (l) Visitors Room (m) Girls Common Room. (n) Seminar Room (o) Canteen (p) Separate Toilet Facility for Boys and Girls (q) Parking Space ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:19 :::HCHP ­61­ (r) Store Rooms (Two) (s) Multipurpose Playfield (t) Open space for Additional Accommodation (iv) There shall be games facilities with a play ground.
 Where   there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   metropolitan

 . towns/hilly regions, facilities for yoga, small court and

 indoor games may be provided. (v)   Safeguard   against   fire   hazard   be   provided   in   all

 parts of the building. (vi)   The   institutional   campus,   building,   furniture   etc.
 should be barrier free. (vii)   Hostel   for   boys   and   girls   separately   and   some
 residential quarters are desirable. (2) Instructional (a) The institution shall have easy access to sufficient

 number of recognized secondary schools with reasonable
 distance   for   field   work   and   practice   teaching   related
 activities of student teachers. The institution shall furnish
 undertaking   from   the   schools   that   they   are   wiling   to

 provide facilities for practice teaching. Not more than ten
 and  twenty students   teachers  shall  be   attached  with  a
 school  having pupil strength up to 1000  (one  thousand)

 and 2000 (two thousand) respectively. It is desirable that
 the institution has an attached school under its control. (b)   There   shall   be   a   library­cum­reading   room   with
 seating   capacity   for   at   least   fifty   percent   students
 equipped  with minimum  1000  (one  thousand)  titles  and

 3000 (three thousand) books including text and reference
 books   relevant   to   the   course   of   study,   educational
 encyclopedias,   Year   books,   ELECTRONIC   Publications
 (CD­ROMs) and  Minimum five journals of education and
 subscription   to   five   others   in   related   disciplines.   The
 library holdings shall be augmented with addition of two
 hundred   titles   annually   including   books   and   journals
 published and recommended by NCTE. The library shall
 have   photocopying   facility   and   computer   with   internet
 facility for the use of faculty and student­teachers. Except
 in the case of textbooks and reference books there shall
 not more than there multiple copies of each titles. ­62­ (c) There shall be a Teaching Learning Resource Centre for
 Science  and   mathematics. It   shall  have  multiple  sets   of
 science   apparatus  required   to   perform   and  demonstrate
 the   experiments   prescribed   in   the   syllabus   for
 secondary/senior   secondary   classes.   Chemicals,   etc.
 should be provided in the required quantity. . (d)   There   shall   be   a   Psychology   Resource   Centre   with
 apparatus  for simple experiments related to educational
 psychology. (e)   There   shall   be   ICT   facilities   with   hardware   and
 software   including   computers,   TV   camera.   The   ICT
 equipment like ROT (Receive Only Terminal), SIT (Satellite
 Interlinking Terminal) etc.

 r to (f)   There   shall   be   a   fully   furnished   Teaching   Learning
 Resource Centre for Arts and Work Experience. (g) Games and sports equipments for common indoor and
 out door games should be available. Note:   While   developing   the   resource   centres,   the
 institutions are advised to consult the 'Manual for Teacher
 Education Institutions' brought out by NCTE. 3. Amenities (a)   Functional   and   appropriate   furniture   in   required
 number for instructional and other purposes. (b) The institution shall provide separate common rooms
 for male and female teacher educators/students­teachers. (c) Sufficient number of toilets, separate male and female,
 shall be made available for staff and students. (d) Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. (e) Safe drinking water be provided in the institution (f) Effective arrangement be made for regular cleaning of
 campus, water and toilet facilities, repair and replacement of
 furniture and other equipment. ­63­

 56 Here   again   Clause   7   of   the   Regulations   clearly

 provided that if more than one course in teacher education is

 being   run   in   the   same   campus,   then   entire   infrastructural

 . requirements in fact are verbatim the same as that of Appendix

 2 relating to D.El.Ed. 57 Likewise, even though the infrastructure has been

 spelt out in 5(1)(iii), however, in the case of D.El.Ed. the size of

 such infrastructure has not been spelt out. 58 At   this   stage,   it   needs   to   be   noticed   that   the

 Western Regional Committee of the NCT had, during its 104 th ­

 109th  meetings held in 2008 given, recognition to 291 Colleges

 of Maharashtra for starting the Diploma in Education (D.Ed.)

 programme   in   spite   of   the   explicit   recommendations   of   the

 Government of Maharashtra that the State did not require more

 D.Ed. Institutions due to limited employment opportunities for

 the graduates of this programme. When the matter came before

 the   Hon'ble   Bombay   High   Court   (Nagpur   Bench)   in   a   Public

 Interest Litigation, it quashed the aforesaid order of the WRC,

 vide   its   order   dated   07.01.2009,   on   the   ground   that   the

 recognition had been granted in breach of the directions issued

 by the Central Government under Section 29 of the NCTE Act. 59 However,   the   order   passed   by   the   Bombay   High

 Court (Nagpur Bench) was assailed before the Hon'ble Supreme ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:19 :::HCHP ­64­

 Court  in  SLPs  (C) Nos.  4247  and  4248  of  2011.  The  Hon'ble

 Supreme Court allowed the institutions recognised by the WRC

 to admit students to the D.Ed. Course taking the view that the

 . issues   raised   in   these   SLPs   were   of   'considerable   public

 importance'.   It   was   during   the   hearing   of   the   SLPs   that   the

 Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   appointed   a   High   ­Powered

 Commission to examine the entire gamut of issues which have

 a bearing on improving the quality of teacher education as well

 as   improving   the   regulatory   functions   of   the   NCTE.   This

 Commission was headed by Hon'ble Justice J.S. Verma, former

 Chief Justice of India and there were seven other members of

 the   Commission.   The   Terms   of   Reference   of   the   Commission

 were as under:­

 " Terms of Reference

  The ToRs of the Commission are as follows: Institutions." r to (h) To review whether the 291 institutions in the Wester
 Region   qualify   to   be   recognized   as   Teacher   Training

 In terms of the aforesaid reference,  Justice Verma

 Commission  had  made  recommendations  with  reference  to  (i)

 Revision   of   the   extant   regulation   on   recognition   norms   and

 procedure   and   (ii)   monitoring   and   inspection   of   teacher

 education institutions under Sections 13 , 14 , 15 and 17 of the

 NCTE Act, 1993. 61 The   recommendations   made   by   Justice   J.   S.

 Verma   were   considered   by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   on

 10.10.2012 and accepted in toto. 62 The Hon'ble Supreme Court was of the view that

 the   report   of   Justice   Verma   Commission   deserves   to   be

 accepted and, therefore, directed the Government of India and

 NCTE   to   indicate   the   steps   proposed   to   be   taken   for ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:20 :::HCHP ­66­

 implementation   of   the   recommendations   made   by   the

 Commission vide order dated 10.10.2012. Accordingly, a plan

 of   action   with   a   time   frame   was   submitted   to   the   Hon'ble

 . Supreme Court in the shape of an affidavit of NCTE and the

 Government   of   India,   which   was   placed   before   the   Hon'ble

 Supreme Court on 28.02.2013. It was in this background, that

 the   NCTE   in   its   30th  meeting   held   on   24.05.2013   decided   to

 constitute   a   committee   for   reviewing   its   existing   regulatory

 functions regarding grant of recognition and related functions

 and accordingly nine members Committee was constituted. The

 Terms of Reference for the Committee set up for revision of the

 National Council for Teacher Education (Recognition Norms &

 Procedure) Regulations 2009, were as under:­

 "(i) The   draft   Regulations,   2012   prepared   by   the

 erstwhile   NCTE   Committee   to   make   suitable

 modifications   to   those   draft   Regulations   as   deemed
 necessary   to   meet   the   objectives   of   NCTE,   keeping   in
 view the following:­ (a) NCTE Act , 1993 (b)   The   recommendations   of   the   Justice   Verma  
 Commission. (c) The demand for teacher education institutions  
 and courses in the light of the RTE Act, 2009 . (d) The discussions in the NCTE (e)   Directions   of   the   Hon'ble   Courts   from   time   to  
 time. (f)   The   experience   of   the   NCTE   with   the  
 implementation  of the Regulations. ­67­ (ii)   The   Rules   and   Regulations   for   smooth
 implementation of Sections 13 , 17 & 18 of the NCTE Act,
 1993   in   pursuance   of   the   recommendations   of   the
 Justice Verma Commission. . (iii) The issue of revision/formulation of NCTE (number
 of persons to be nominated to Regional Committee, their

 terms   of   office   and   allowance   payable)   Regulations
 1995 (as amended from time to time) in pursuance  of
 the JVC recommendations. (iv) To prepare draft Regulations for Recognition, Norms
 and   Procedures   of   Innovative   Programmes   keeping   in

 view the following:­ (a)   The   present   guidelines   of   innovative
 programmes   and   NCTE's   experience   in

 operationalization of the same. (b)   The   Draft   Regulations   on   Innovative
 Programmes proposed by NCTE and the decision
 of   the   NCTE   Committee   in   its   meeting   held   from

 20th to 24th April, 2013. (v) To prepare draft regulations to encourage Innovative
 Programmes and to mainstream them." 63 When   the   matter   came   up   before   the   Hon'ble

 Supreme Court subsequently on 06.08.2013, it was made clear

 that   the   recommendations   which   may   be   made   by   the   sub­

 group constituted by the Central Government for giving effect to

 the   recommendations   of   the   Justice   Verma's   Commission

 would   be   binding   on   the   Government   of   India   and   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:20 :::HCHP ­68­

 Governments of all the States and Union Territories as also on

 the NCTE and University Grants Commission and all of them

 shall  implement the  same  without  any  objection   and  without

 . modifying the same. 64 It was probably in light of such recommendations,

 as represented by the learned counsel for the NCTE, that the

 regulations of 2009 (supra) were superseded by the regulations

 of 2014. 65 Regulation   8 thereof   deals   with   conditions   for

 grant of recognition and reads thus:­

 "8. Conditions for grant of recognition.­ (1) New Teacher
 Education   Institutions   shall   be   located   in   composite
 institutions   and   the   existing   teacher   education
 institutions   shall   continue   to   function   as   stand­alone

 institutions;   and   gradually   move   towards   becoming
 composite institutions. (2) An institution shall fulfill all the conditions pertaining
 to norms and standards for conducting the programme or

 training   in   teacher   education.   These   norms,   inter   alia,
 prove   conditions   relating   to   financial   resources,
 accommodation,   library,   laboratory,   other   physical

 infrastructure, qualified staff including teaching and non­
 teaching personnel. (3)   An   institution   which   has   been   recognised   by   the
 Council   shall   obtain   accreditation   from   an   accrediting
 agency   approved   by   Council   within   five   years   of   such
 recognition. (4)(i)   No   institution   shall   be   granted   recognition   under
 these   regulations   unless   the   institution   or   society
 sponsoring   the   institution   is   in   possession   of   required
 land   on   the   date   of   application.   The   land   free   from   all
 encumbrances could be either on ownership basis or on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:20 :::HCHP ­69­

 lease  from  Government  or Government  institutions  for a
 period of not less than thirty years. In cases where under
 relevant   State   or   Union   Territory   laws   the   maximum
 permissible   lease   period   is   less   than   thirty   years,   the
 State   Government   or  Union   Territory   administration   law
 shall prevail and in any case no building shall be taken

 . on lease for running any teacher training programme. (ii)   The   society   sponsoring   the   institution   shall   have   to
 ensure that proposed teacher education institution has a

 well demarcated land area as specified by the norms. (iii) The society sponsoring the institution shall be required
 to transfer and vest the title of the land and building in

 the name of the institution within a period of six months
 from the date of issue of formal recognition order under
 sub­regulation (16) of regulation 7. However, in case, the
 society fails to do so due to local laws or rules or bye­

 laws,   it   shall   intimate   in   writing   with   documentary
 evidence of its inability to do so. The Regional Office shall

 keep   this   information   on   record   and   place   it   before   the
 Regional Committee for its approval. (5) The institution or society shall furnish an affidavit on

 Rs.100 stamp paper duly attested, by Oath Commissioner
 or Notary Public stating the precise  location of the  land
 (Khasra number, village, district, state, etc.), the total area

 in   possession   and   the   permission   of   the   competent
 authority   to   use   the   land   for   educational   purposes   and

 mode of possession, i.e., ownership or lease. In case of
 Government   institutions,   the   said   affidavit   shall   be
 furnished by the Principal or the Head of the Institution or
 any   other   higher   authority.   The   affidavit   shall   be

 accompanied with the certified copy of land ownership or
 lease   documents   issued   by   the   registering   authority   or
 civil   authority,   permission   of   the   competent   authority   to
 use   the   land   for   educational   purposes   (   and   approved
 building plan) as per provision contained in sub­regulation
 (4) of the Regulation 5 . (6)   The   copy   of   the   affidavit   shall   be   displayed   by   the
 institution on its official website. In case, the contents of
 the affidavit are found to be incorrect or false, the society
 or trust or the institution concerned shall be liable for civil
 and  criminal  action under the relevant  provisions of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws, and shall also ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:20 :::HCHP ­70­

 be   liable   for   withdrawal   of   recognition   by   the   Regional
 Committee concerned. (7) At the time of inspection, the building of the institution
 shall be complete in the form of a permanent structure on

 . the land possessed by the institution, equipped with all

 necessary amenities and  fulfilling all such requirements
 as prescribed in the norms and standards. The applicant
 institution shall produce the original completion certificate
 issued   by   the   competent   authority,   approved   building

 plan  in proof  of  the  completion of  building and  built  up
 area   and   other   documents   to   the   visiting   team   for
 verification.   No   temporary   structure   or   asbestos   roofing
 shall be allowed in the institution, even if it is in addition

 to the prescribed built up area. (8)   At   the   time   of   inspection   for   new   programme   or
 enhancement of intake, visiting team shall also verify the

 facilities   for   existing   teacher   education   programmes
 already accorded recognition by the Council and ascertain

 the fulfillment and maintenance of regulations and norms
 and standards for the existing programmes as well. (9)  In  case  of  change  of  premises, prior approval  of  the

 Regional Committee concerned shall be necessary, which
 may be accorded after due inspection of the institution at
 the   new   site.   Application   or   change   of   premises,   in   the

 specified   formal  alongwith  the  processing  fee   and  other
 relevant documents shall be submitted by the institution

 online to the Regional Office for prior approval of change
 of premises. The change may be permitted to a site which,
 if applied initially, would have qualified for establishment
 of   an   institution  as   per   specified   norms   of   Council.   The

 change shall be displayed on website thereafter. (10)   The   university   or   examining   body   shall   grant
 affiliation only after issue of the formal recognition order
 under sub­­regulation (16) of regulation 7 and admission
 by the institution shall be made only after affiliation by
 the university or affiliating body. (11)   Whenever   there   are   changes   in   the   norms   and
 standards   for   a   programme   in   teacher   education,   the
 institution shall comply with the requirements laid down
 in the   revised   norms   and   standards   immediately. ­71­

 However, the revised land area related norms shall not be
 applicable   to   the   existing   institutions,   but   the   required
 built   up   area   shall   have   to   be   increased   by   existing
 institutions   to   conform   to   the   revised   norms   and   the
 institutions   not   having   land   area   as   per   the   revised
 norms,   shall   not   be   allowed   to   expand   by   way   of

 . additional programmes or additional intake. (12)   The   institution   shall   make   the   information   or
 documents   available   to   the   Council   or   its   authorised

 representatives   as   and   when   required   by   them   and
 failure to produce or show any of the required documents,
 shall   be   treated   as   a   breach   of   the   conditions   of
 recognition. (13)   The   institution   shall   maintain   records,   registers   or
 other   documents,   which   are   essential   for   running   an
 educational institution especially those prescribed under

 the relevant rules or regulation and norms and standards
 and  guidelines or instructions of the Central or State or

 Union   Territory   administrations,   affiliating   or   examining
 bodies. (14)   The   institution   shall   adhere   to   the   mandatory

 disclosure in the prescribed format and display up­to­date
 information on its official website." 66 Appendix 2 of the regulations lays down the norms

 and   standards   of   Elementary   Teacher   Education   Programme

 leading   to   Diploma   in   Elementary   Education   (D.El.Ed.).   It   is

 prescribed   in   Clause   3   that   the   basic   unit   shall   be   of   50

 students   and   two   basic   units   would   be   permissible   initially. However,   Government   Institutions   could   be   sanctioned   a

 maximum   intake   of   four   units   subject   to   fulfillment   of   other

 conditions. ­72­

 67 The norms regarding staff are contained in Clause

 5, which read thus:­

 "5. Staff

 . 5.1 Academic Faculty

 For an intake of up to two basic units of 50 students each,
 the faculty strength shall be 16. The Principal or HoD is
 included in the faculty. The distribution of faculty across

 subject areas may be as under: The   faculty   in   specialised   areas   and   some   of   the

 pedagogie courses can be shared with the other teacher
 education programmes. (ii)   Faculty   can   be   utilized   for   teaching   in   a   flexible
 manner so as to optimize academic expertise available. 5.2 Qualifications
 (A) Principal/HoD (i) Post­graduate degree in Science/Social Sciences/Arts/
 Humanities   with   minimum   55%   marks   and   M.Ed./MA
 (Education)/M.El.Ed. with minimum 50% marks. (ii) Five years teaching experience in a Teacher Education
 Institution. ­73­

 Desirable:Degree/Diploma   in   Educational
 Administration /Educational Leadership. (B) Perspective in Education/Foundations of Education; &
 Curriculum and Pedagogy, Teacher Educators in D.El.Ed. . Should   have   Masters   Degree   in   Social

 Science/Humanities/   Science/   Maths/   Language   with
 50%   marks   and   M.Ed.   With   50%   Marks   or   M.A.
 (Education) with 50% marks (except (two) positions where
 the   requirement   shall   be   post   graduate   in

 philosophy/Sociology/Psychology   with   50%   marks   and
 B.El.   Ed.   Or   B.Ed.   rr   D.El.Ed   with   50%   marks,   or
 M.Phil/Ph.D in Education). (C) Physical Education (i) Masters degree in Physical Education (MP.Ed.) with 
 minimum 50% marks. (D) Visual and Performing Arts (i) Masters degree in Fine Arts/Music/Dance/Theatre 
 with 50% marks. 5.3 Administrative and Professional Staff (a) Number
 (I) UDC/Office Superintendent ­One (ii) Computer Operator­cum­Store Keeper  ­One (iii) Computer Lab Assistant
    (BCA/B. Tech with Computer Science) ­One (iv) Librarin (with B.Lib) ­One (b) Qualifications
 As prescribed by State Government/UT Administration  
 concerned. Note: In a composite institution, the Principal and  
 academic, administrative and technical staff can be
 shared.   There   shall   be   one   Principal   and   others
 may  be termed as HoDs. 5.4 Terms and Conditions of Service ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:21 :::HCHP ­74­

 The terms and conditions of service of teaching and non­
 teaching staff including selection procedure, pay scales,
 age of superannuation and other benefits shall be as per
 the policy of the State Government/affiliating body." . 68 Clause   6   relates   to   facilities   and   provides   as

 under:­

 "6. Facilities
 6.1 Infrastructure (a)   Land   and   Built   up   area   for   running   D.El.Ed.  
 programme in combination with other teacher education 

 programmes shall be as under:­

 Built up area Land   Area
 (in sq.mts.) (in sq.mts.)

 D.ElEd. 1500  2500

 D.El.Ed.   plus   B.Ed.   + 3000  3000
 Education   Component   of
 BA/B.Sc. B.Ed. Note: Additional intake of one unit of D.El.Ed will require
 additional  built   up   area   of   500   sqm.   (five   hundred

 square metres). (b)   The   institution   must   have   the   following  
 infrastructure:­ (i) One classroom for every 50 students. (ii)   Multipurpose   Hall   with   seating   capacity   of   two
 hundred   with   dais   with   total   area   of   2000   sq.   ft   (two
 thousand square feet). (iii) Library­cum­Resource Centre (iv)Curriculum   Laboratory   (with   science   and   maths   kits,
 maps, globes, chemical, science kits etc. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:21 :::HCHP ­75­ (v) Computer Lab (vi) Arts and Craft Resource Centre (vii) Health and Physical Education Resource Centre (viii) Principal's office (ix) Staff Room (x) Administrative Office

 . (xi) Store Rooms (Two) (xii)   Common   rooms   separately   for   Men   and   Women
 student­teachers. (xiii) Canteen (xiv) Visitors Room (xv) Separate Toilet Facility for Men and Women, student­
 teachers, and staff of which one should be for PWD.
 (xvi) Parking Space
 (xvii) Open space for lawns, gardening activities, etc.

 (xviii) Store Room
 (xix) Multipurpose play field

 Note:   Requirement   at   Sl.   No.   (I)   will   multiply   with   the

 number of  units taken. 6.2 Instructional (a)The   institution   shall   establish   Library­cum­Resource
 Centre wherein teachers and students have access to a

 variety   of   materials   and   resources   to   support   and
 enhance   the   teaching­learning   process.   These   should
 include: . (c) Equipment, Tools, Raw material for teaching aids, play
 material and Arts and Crafts Activities. One set of wood working tools, one set of gardeners' tools,
 raw   materials   and   equipment   required   for   toy   making,
 doll making, tailoring, dress designing, puppetry, material
 for   preparation   of   charts,   models   and   other   practical
 activities to be done by the student teacher - art material,

 waste   material,   stationery   (chart   paper,   mount   board
 etc.), tools like scissors, scales etc., cloth. (d) Audio Visual Equipment

 Hardware for projection and duplication and educational

 software   facilities   including   TV,   DVD   Player,   slide
 projector,   slides,   films,   charts,     pictures.   Satellite   ROT
 (Receive   Only   Terminal)   and   SIT   (Satellite   Interlinking
 Terminal) would be desirable. (e) Musical instruments

 Simple musical instruments such as Harmonium, Tabla,
 Flute, Manjira and other indigenous instruments. (f) Books, Journals and Magazines

 A   minimum   of   one   thousand   books   on   relevant   subjects

 should be available during the first year of establishment
 of   the   institution   and   one   hundred   standard   books   be
 added every year. The collection of books should include
 children's   encyclopedias,   dictionaries,   reference   books,
 books   on   professional   education,   teachers'   handbooks,
 books   on   and   for   children   (including   comics,   stories,
 picture   books/albumbs,   and   poems)   and   the
 books/resources   published   and   recommended   by   NCTE.
 The institution should subscribe to online resources, and
 the journals published by NCTE and at least three other
 journals in the field of Education. (g) Games and Sports ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:21 :::HCHP ­77­

 Adequate games and sports equipment for common indoor
 and outdoor games should be available. 6.3 Other Amenities

 . (a)   Functional   and   appropriate   furniture   in   required

 number for instructional and other purposes. (b) Separate common rooms for male and female teacher

 educators/students­teachers. (c) Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. (d) Safe drinking water be provided in the institution

 r to (e) The institutions campus, building, facility etc., should
 be disable friendly. (f)   There   shall   be   games   facilities   with   the   ground.
 Alternatively, the playground available with the attached

 schools or local bodies may be utilized exclusively for fix
 period. Where there is scarcity of space as in metropolitan
 towns/hilly regions, facilities for small court games, yoga
 and indoor games may be provided. Note:­ If more than one courses in teacher education are
 run   by   the   same   institution   in   the   same   campus,   the

 facilities   of   playground,   multipurpose   hall,   library   and
 laboratory   (with   proportionate   addition   of   books   and
 equipments) and instructional space can be shared. 69 Like   the   earlier   regulations,   it   would   be   noticed

 that there is a note appended at the end of Clause 6.3 that if

 more than one course in teacher education are run by the same

 institution   in   the   same   campus,   the   facilities   of   playground,

 multipurpose   hall,   library   and   laboratory   (with   proportionate

 addition   of   books   and   equipments)   and   instructional   space

 shall be shared. ­78­

 70 Here again, it would be pertinent to note that even

 though   the   infrastructures   to   be   provided   in   the   institutions

 have   been   specified   but   its   dimensions   have   not   been

 . mentioned. 71 Appendix 3 of these regulations lays down norms

 and   standards   for   the   Bachelor   of   Elementary   Teacher

 Education   Programme   leading   to   the   Bachelor   of   Elementary

 Education (B.El.Ed.) Degree, the duration of the course is four

 academic years and the other norms are pari materia  to those

 of D.El.Ed. and, therefore, are not being referred to. 72 As regards B.Ed., the same norms and standards

 thereof   are   provided   in   Appendix   4   which   provides   that   the

 basic unit would be of the 50 students with maximum of two

 units. The norms for staff are provided in Clause 5 and reads

 thus:­

 "5. Staff

 5.1 Academic Faculty

 For an intake of two basic units of 50 students each,
 that is total students strength of 200, there shall 16 full­
 time faculty members. The   distribution   of   faculty   across   different   curricular
 areas shall be as under:­ 1. Principal/HoD ­ One 2. Perspectives in Education ­ Four 3. Pedagogy subjects ­ Eight ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:21 :::HCHP ­79­

   (Math, Science, Social Science, Language) 4. Health and Physical Education ­ One 5. Fine Arts ­ One 6. Performing Arts 
    (Music/Dance/Theatre ­ One

 . Note: (i) The faculty positions listed under different subject

 categories may teach course(s) in the Teacher Education
 Programme   across   curricular   areas   specified   and   can
 cater   to   both   foundation   and   pedagogy   course(s).   If   the

 students' strength for two years is one hundred (with one
 basic unit) only, the number of faculty shall be reduced to 8. (ii) Faculty can be utilised for teaching in flexible manner

 so as  to optimize academic expertise available. 5.2 Qualifications

 The faculty shall possess the following qualifications: A. Principal/HoD

 (I)   Postgraduate   degree   in   Arts/Sciences/   Social
 Sciences/   Humanities/Commerce   with   minimum   55%

 marks; and (ii) M.Ed. With minimum 55% marks; and (iii) Ph.D. in Education or in any pedagogic subject offered

 in the institution; and (iv)   Eight   years   of   teaching   experience   in   a   secondary
 Teacher Education Institution. Desirable: Diploma/Degree in Educational Administration
 or Educational Leadership. B.  Perspectives in Education or Foundation Courses

 (I) Postgraduate degree in Social Sciences with minimum
 55% marks; and (ii)   M.Ed.   Degree   from   a   recognised   university   with
 minimum 55% marks. OR
 (I) Postgraduate (MA) degree in Education with minimum
 55% marks; and (ii) B.Ed./B.El.Ed. Degree with minimum 55% marks. ­80­

 C.  Curriculum and Pedagogic Courses

 (I) Postgraduate degree in Sciences/Mathematics/Social
 Sciences/Languages with minimum 55% marks, and (ii) M.Ed. Degree with minimum 55% marks. . Desirable:   Ph.D   degree   in   Education   with   subject

 specializations. Note:   In   case   of   B   and   C   put   together,   for   two   faculty

 positions, a postgraduate degree in Sociology/ Psychology
 /Philosophy   with   55%   marks,   and   B.Ed./B.El.Ed.   With
 55% marks and three years of teaching experience in a
 secondary school shall be considered. D.  Specialized Courses Physical Education

 (I) Master of Physical Education (M.P.Ed.) with minimum
 55%  marks.   (Training/qualification   in   yoga   education

 shall be desirable)

 Visual Arts

 (I)   Postgraduate   degree   in   Fine   Arts   (MFA)   with  
 minimum  55% marks. Performing Arts

 (I) Postgraduate degree in Music/Dance/Theatre Arts 
 with minimum 55% marks. 5.3 Administrative and Professional Staff (a) Librarian (B.Lib with 55% marks) One (b) Lab Assistant (BCA with 55% marks) One (c) Office­cum­Account Assistant One (d) Office Assistant­cum­ Computer operator One (e) Store­Keeper One (f) Technical Assistant One (g) Lab Attendants/Helpers/Support Staff two

 Qualifications ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­81­

 As prescribed by State Government/UT Administration
 concerned. Note:   In   a   composite   institution,   the   Principal   and  
 academic,   administrative   and   technical   staff   can   be  
 shared. There shall be one Principal, and others may be 

 . termed as HoDs. 5.4 Terms and Conditions of Service

 The terms and conditions of service of teaching and non­
 teaching   staff   including   selection   procedure,   pay   scales,
 age of superannuation and other benefits shall be as per
 the policy of the State Government/Affiliating body." As   regards   facilities,   the   norms   are   contained   in

 Clause 6 and the same reads thus:­ 6.  Facilities

 6.1 Infrastructure

 (I)   The   institutions   shall   possess   2500   sq   mts   (two

 thousand   five   hundred   square   meters)   of   exclusive   well
 demarcated land for the initial intake of fifty students out
 of   which   1500     sq.   mts.   (one   thousand   five   hundred

 square   meters)   shall   be   the   built   up   area   and   the
 remaining   space   for   lawns,   playfields,   etc.   For   an
 additional   intake   of   fifty   students,   it   shall   possess

 additional land of 500 sqm. (five hundred square metre).
 For an annual intake beyond two hundred and upto three
 hundred,   it   shall   possess   land   of   3500   sqm.   (three

 thousand five hundred square metre). For the institutions
 established   prior   to   this   Regulations,   for   an   additional
 intake   of   one   hundred   students,   built   up   area   is   to   be
 increased by 500 sqm. (five hundred square metre) and
 the requirement of additional land may not apply to them. (ii)   Built   up   Area   for   running   other   teacher   education
 programmes in combination with B.Ed. Programme shall
 be as under:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­82­ (iii) Facilities

 Built   up   Area   (in Land   Area
 sq.mts.) in (sq.mts.)
 B.Ed./Education 1500 2500

 . Component   of   B.A.

 B.Ed/B.Sc /B.Ed. Note: Additional intake of one unit of B.Ed will require
 additional built up area of 500 sqm. (five hundred square
 meters). The   Institution   must   have   the   following   infrastructure
 (each item to include facilitation for PWD):­ (a) one classroom for every 50 student. (b) Multipurpose Hall with seating capacity of 200 and a
 dais 2000 sq. ft) (c) Library­cum­Reading Room (d) ICT Resource Centre (e) Curriculum Laboratory (f) Arts and Craft Resource centre (g)   Health   and   Physical   Education   Resource   Centre
 (including yoga education) (h) Principal's Office (i) Staff Room (j) Administrative Office (k) Visitors Room (l) Separate common room for male and female students (m) Seminar Room (n) Canteen (o) Separate Toilet Facility for male and female students,
 for staff and for PWD. (p) Parking Space ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­83­ (q) Store Rooms (Two) (r) Multipurpose Playfield s) Open space for Additional Accommodation (iv)   There   shall   be   games   facilities   with   a   playground.
 Where   there   is   scarcity   of   space   as   in   the   metropolitan

 . towns/hilly   regions,   separate   facilities   for   yoga,   small

 court and indoor games may be provided. (v) Safeguard against fire hazard be provided in all parts

 of the building. (vi) The institution campus, buildings, furniture etc. should
 be barrier free. (vii) Hostel for male and female students separately, and
 some residential quarters are desirable. 6.2  Instructional (a)   The   institution   shall   have   easy   access   to   sufficient

 number   of   recognized   secondary   schools   within
 reasonable distance for field work and practice teaching
 related activities of the students teachers. The institution
 shall furnish undertaking from the schools that they are

 willing to provide facilities for practice teaching. The State
 education   administration   may   allot   schools   to   different
 Tels.   Not   more   than   ten   and   twenty   students­teachers

 shall be attached with a school having pupil strength up
 to   1000   (   one   thousand)   and   2000   (two   thousand)
 respectively.   It   is   desirable   that   the   institution   has   an

 attached school under its control. (b)   There   shall   be   a   library­cum­reading   room   with

 seating   capacity   for   at   least   fifty   percent   students
 equipped with minimum 1000 (one thousand) titles and
 3000 (three thousand) books including text and reference
 books   relevant   to   the   course   of   study,   educational
 encyclopedias,   year   books,   electronic   publications   (CD
 ROMs),   online   resources   and   minimum   five   referred
 journals  of   education  and   subscription  to   five  others  in
 related   disciplines.   The   library   holdings   shall   be
 augmented with addition of two hundred titles annually
 including   books   and   journals.   The   library   shall   have
 photocopying   facility   and   computer   with   INTERNET
 facility for the use of faculty and student­teachers. Except ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­84­

 in the case of textbooks and reference books there shall
 not more than three multiple copies of each title. (c) There shall be a Curriculum Laboratory with materials
 and   resources   relating   to   different   areas   of   school
 curriculum. . (d)   There   shall   be   ICT   facilities   with   hardware   and
 software including computers, internet, TV Camera, ICT
 equipment like ROT (Receive Only Terminal), SIT (Satellite

 Interlinking Terminal) etc. (e)   There   shall   be   a   fully   furnished   Teaching­Learning
 Resource Centre for Arts and Work Experience. (f) Games and sports equipments for common indoor and
 out door games should be available. (g)   Simple   musical   instruments   such   as   harmonium,

 tabla, manjira and other indigenous instruments. 6.3 Amenities (a) Functional and appropriate furniture required number
 for instructional and other purposes. (b) Arrangement may be made for parking of vehicles. (c)   Access   to   safe   drinking   water   be   provided   in   the
 institution. (d) Effective arrangement be made for regular cleaning of
 campus, water and toilet facilities (separate for male and
 female students and teachers), repair and replacement of

 furniture and other equipments. Note: In case of composite institution, the infrastructural,
 instructional and other facilities shall be shared by
 various programmes. 74 Here   again,   note   appended   to   the   Clause   6.3

 clearly   provides   that   in   case   of   a   composite   institution, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­85­

 the   infrastructural,   instructional   and   other   facilities   shall   be

 shared by various programmes. 75 Noticeably,   even   these   regulations   specify   the

 . infrastructure but do not specify the dimensions thereof. 76 It   would   be   noticed   that   as   regards   the   earlier

 regulations of 2002, the only infrastructural requirement was

 that the institute should have adequate number of classrooms. The   area   required   to   be   possessed   by   the   institute   was   not

 specified   and   it   was   only   provided   that   there   should   be

 provisions for adequate number of classrooms, hall, laboratory

 space for conducting instructional activities for approved intake

 of   100   students   and   separate   rooms   for   Principal,   faculty

 members, office for the administrative staff and a store. 77 It   was   only   thereafter   in   the   year   2005   that   the

 institutions   were   required   to   have   at   least   2500   sq.   mtrs.   of

 land over which built up area consisting of classrooms etc. was

 not to be less than 1500 sq. mtrs. and at the same time the

 space in each instructional room was to be not less than 10 sq.

 ft. per student. 78 Even as per Clause 8.5 of the Regulations, 2005,

 the institution was required to be in possession of the land on

 the date of application with the only condition that the land free

 from encumbrances could be either on ownership basis or on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­86­

 lease for a period of not less than 30 years and only in cases

 where under relevant State/UT laws the maximum permissible

 lease  period  is  less than  30 years, the  State  Government/UT

 . administration would prevail. 79 It was thereafter only in 2007 that the parameters

 of land and built up area were provided for the first time which

 continued to be subsequently repeated. 80 Now, adverting to the AICTE norms, the same are

 contained in the Approval Process Handbook 2018­2019.   The

 grant   of   approval   for   extension   of   existing   institutions,

 continuation   of   institutions   after   a   break   in   the   preceding

 Academic   Year   have   been   made   mandatory   under   these

 instructions.   The applicants are required to submit   relevant

 documents   as per Appendix 17. As regards land and built­up

 area,   the   institutions   have   to   comply   with   the     provisions   of

 Appendix   4.   However,   it   has   been   clarified   in   the   note

 appearing at Page 98 that considering hilly nature of land in

 North Eastern States and the hilly   regions of States such as

 Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand  and Jammu and Kashmir, the

 land   shall   be   made   available   in   three   pieces   which   are   not

 separated from each other  by more than 2 Kms.  A note on the

 same page reads thus:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­87­

 "a.     Starting     other   educational   Course(s)/Institutions
 (Technical/Non­Technical) in the surplus Land  arising out of
 prevailing/reduced   norms   of   Land   requirement   is
 permissible. Further such surplus Land can be used  as per

 . the   Land   use   Certificate   given     to   the

 Trust/Society/Company by the concerned authority subject
 to such  Course(s)/Institutions having their own facilities to

 conduct   such   Programmes   without   sharing   the   essential
 facilities,   such   as   Classroom,   Laboratory   etc.   with   the
 already approved  Technical Institution.  However, Common

 Amenities   such   as   Canteen,   Auditorium,   Playground,
 Parking   etc.   may   be   shared   provided   it   caters   to   all   the
 students of all the Programmes. b.  Diploma   and   Degree   Pharmacy   Programme   shall   be

 permitted  to run in the same Institution with the same Land
 area. c.For   an   Institution   established   prior   to   1994,   the   Land

 requirement   should   be   fulfilled   as   per   the   norms   existed
 thereon   for   the   Programme(s)/Course(s)   Divisions   applied. In  case  of  any  deviation from  those  norms, the  Institution
 has to adhere to the existing norms at the time of seeking

 Extension of Approval. d. For an Institution established   after 1994, the Land

 requirement     should   be   fulfilled   as   per   the   AICTE   norms
 existing   at the time of establishment of the Institution   for
 the   Programme(s)/Course(s)/Divisions   applied     thereon.   In
 case of any deviation from those norms, the Institution has
 to   adhere   to   the   existing   norms   at   the   time   of   seeking
 Extension of Approval. e.If the Institution (c or d) had been given approval for more
 Programme(s)/Course(s)/Divisions   later,   the   Land
 requirements as per the corresponding  AICTE norms should ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­88­

 be   fulfilled.   Annexure   9   of   Approval   Process   Handbook
 2018­19   gives   Land   Requirements   as   per   AICTE   norms
 during  the previous years." 81 While   calculating   the   minimum   built­up   area

 . requirements,  it has been clearly provided for in  Clause  4.2 (c)

 that the Institution  area is divided into Instructional  area (INA,

 carpet area in m2),  Administrative area (ADA, carpet area in m 2),

 Amenities   area   (AMA,   carpet   area   in   m 2).   Seminar   Halls   in   the

 case of Diploma and Degree Pharmacy are permitted to be shared

 if offered in the same Institution. 82 Clause   5.1   of   Appendix   5   provides   for   Computers,

 Software, Internet and Printers, whereas  Clause 5.2 provides for

 Laboratory Equipment and Experiments.   Appendix 7 relates to

 the norms for Faculty requirements and Cadre Ratio for Technical

 Institution. 83 It would be noticed from regulations of 2014 that in

 case   there is change of premises, even though prior approval of

 Regional   Committee   concerned   is   necessary,   however,   this

 permission  of  change  would  be dealt with  as  if  site  of changed

 premises,   if   applied   initially,   would   have   qualified   for

 establishment of an Institution as per specified norms of Council. 84 Adverting to the facts, it would be noticed that the

 case   came   up   before   this   Court   for   the   first   time   on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:22 :::HCHP ­89­

 13.06.2017 on which date notices were issued to the institutions

 against   whom   report   of   SIT   had   been   received.     In   the

 meanwhile,   few   other   reports   were   received   from   the   SIT   and

 . looking to the colossal task before us, we appointed Ms. Jyotsna

 Rewal Dua, Senior Advocate of this Court as Amicus Curiae to

 assist us.   It was with the efforts of the learned Amicus Curiae

 that we on the   basis of the deficiencies as pointed out by the

 SIT,   and   upon   its   recommendations   identified   each   of   the

 institutions and accordingly we directed AICTE and NCTE, as the

 case may be,  to look into the deficiencies and recommendations,

 of   the   SIT.   It   is   after   the   receipt   of   the   recommendations,   we

 proceeded  to hear the matter and in some of the cases directed

 AICTE   and   NCTE   to   conduct   further     inspections.   Various

 actions   have   been   recommended     by   the   SIT   ranging   from

 recommendations   for   closure   of   the   institutions   to   even

 registration of criminal cases. 85 As stated above, it was with the assistance   of

 the learned Amicus Curiae that we delineated the institutions

 and arguments thereafter were heard in chronological order

 of   such   delineated     institutions.   The   initial   list     of   the

 institutions  is as under:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:23 :::HCHP ­90­

   A.   LIST   OF   PRIVATE   EDUCATIONAL   INSTITUTES
 OF   HIMACHAL   PRADESH   RECOMMENDED   FOR
 CLOSURE: 6.Himalayan   College   of   Education,   Village   Pungh,
 Sundernagar, Mandi. 7)   Blooms   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),  Village   Kot,

 Teh. Balh, District Mandi. 8) Blooms College of Education (D.EI.Ed.), Village Kot,
 Teh. Balh, District Mandi. 9) Himachal Institute of Education, c/o Solan Public

 School Bypass road, Solan. 10)Lakshya   Institute   of   Education,   Village   Manjiat,

 Arki, District Solan. b)   Management   and   Technology   (B.Tech,   M.   Tech,   MBA  
 and MCA) 1)   H.P.   Institute   of   Management   Studies   (M.B.A.)
 Mauja Majid, Totu, Shimla. 2)   H.P.   Institute   of   Management   Studies   (M.C.A.)
 Mauja Majid, Totu, Shimla. 3)Himalayan   Institute   of   Computer   Sciences,   Kala­
 amb, District Sirmaur. ­91­ c) Polytechnic 1) Himalayan Polytechnic Kala­amb, District Sirmaur. B. LIST OF PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES  OF 

 . HIMACHAL PRADESH RECOMMENDED FOR 

 REMOVAL OF DEFICIENCIES: ­92­ 14)   Raj   Rajeshwari   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),  
 Chorab, Bhota, Hamirpur. 15) Raj Rajeshwari College of Education (D. El.Ed.),  
 Chorab, Bhota, Hamirpur. . 16)   Vijay   Vallabh   College   of   Education,   Nadaun,  

 Hamirpur. 17) Dwarikadass Memorial Sai College of Education  

 (B.Ed.), Village Kallar, PO Jalari, Teh. Nadaun. 18) Dwarikadass Memorial Sai College of Education  
 (D.EI.Ed.), Village Kallar, PO Jalari, Teh. Nadaun. 19)   Gurukul   Bharti   College   of   Education,   Benla  
 Brahmna, Chandpur, District Bilaspur. 20)Adarsh   College   of   Education,   Amarpur,  

 Ghumarwin, Bilaspur. 21)   Minerva   Collge   of   Education,   VPO   Baggi,   Teh.  
 Balh, District Mandi. 22) Gayatri College of Education, Kharota, PO Kangu,

 Sundernagar, Mandi. 23) Baba Kripal Dass College of Education for women

 (B.Ed.), Paonta Sahib, District Sirmaur. 24) Baba Kripal Dass College of Education for women

 (D.El.Ed.), Paonta Sahib, District Sirmaur. 25)   Shiv   Shakti   College   of   Advanced   Studies   of  

 Education, Shamlo, Rajgarh, District Sirmaur. 26) Astha College of Education, Village Hatkot, Teh.  
 Arki, District Solan. 27)   VSS   College   of   Education,   Village   Dhillo,   PO  
 Sultanpur, Solan. 28)   Himachal   College   of   Education,   Nalagarh,   Teh.  
 Baddi, District Solan. 29) Jagriti Teacher Training College  (B.Ed.), Devdhar,
 Sadar, Mandi. 30)   Jagriti   Teacher   Training   College     (D.El.Ed),  
 Devdhar, Sadar, Mandi. ­93­ 31)   Lord   Budha   College   of   Education,   Upper  
 Bhambla, Teh. Baldwara, Mandi. 32)   Noble   College   of   Education,   Seog,   PO   Pandoh,  
 Tehsil Sadar, Mandi. . 33)   Rameshwari   Teacher   Training   Institute   (B.Ed.),  
 Sarabai, District Kullu. 34) Rameshwari Teacher Training Institute (D.El.Ed.), 
 Sarabai, District Kullu. 35) Rameshwari Teacher Training Institute (B.P.Ed.), 
 Sarabai, District Kullu. r to 36)   Kullu   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),   Bogana,  
 District Kullu. 37)   Kullu   College   of   Education   (D.El.Ed.),   Bogana,  
 District Kullu. 38) Janakraj Mahajan B.Ed. College Gangath, Teh.  
 Nurpur, Kangra. 39) Kanta College of Education, VPO Chalwara, Teh. 
 Jawali, District Kangra. 40) Minverva College of Education, Village Changrara,
 Teh. Indora, Kangra. 41)   Dronacharya   College   of   Education,   VPO   Rait,  
 Tehsil Shahpur, District  Kangra. 42) Sharan College of Education for Women (B.Ed.),  
 PO Gurkari, Kangra. 43)   Neelam   College   of   Education,   Village   Jimjima,  
 Teh. Jogindernagar, Mandi. 44)   KLB  College  of   Girls  (B.Ed.),  Palampur,  District  
 Kangra. 45) KLB DAV College for Girls (D.El.Ed.), Palampur,  
 District Kangra. ­94­ 46) Gianjyoti Institute of Bachelor Education (B.Ed.), 
 Rajol, Teh. Sahpur, Kangra. 47)   Gianjyoti   Institute   of   Bachelor   Education  
 (D.El.Ed.), Rajol, Shahpur, Kangra. . b)Management and Technology (Engineering): Palampur, Kangra. c) Pharmacy: Jawalamukhi, District Kangra. 6)Himachal   Pharmacy   College,   Manjhauli,   Teh.  
 Nalagarh, District Solan. d) Polytechnic: Indora, Kangra. C.   LIST OF PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
 HIMACHAL   PRADESH   RECOMMENDED   FOR ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:23 :::HCHP ­95­

 REGISTRATION   OF   CRIMINAL   CASES   AND
 CLOSURE: Balh, District Mandi. 12)Himachal   Pradesh   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),  
 a­amb, Distrct Sirmaur. 13)Himachal Pradesh College of Education (D.El.Ed.), 
 Kala­amb, District Sirmaur. 14)Karishma Educational Centre (B.Ed.), Ner Chowk, 
 District Mandi. ­96­ 15)Karishma   Educational   Centre   (D.El.Ed.),   Ner  
 Chowk, District Mandi. b)  Management and Technology (Engineering): D.LIST OF PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
 HIMACHAL   PRADESH   RECOMMENDED   FOR ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:23 :::HCHP ­97­

 REGISTRATION   OF   CRIMINAL   CASES   AND
 REMOVAL OF DEFICIENCIES: Hamirpur. 2) Shanti Niketan College of Education for D.El.Ed.,  
 Hamirpur. 3) Trisha College of Education for B.Ed. and M.Ed.,  
 Thain, PO Jol Sappar, Hamirpur. 4) Trisha College of Education for D.El. Ed., Thain, PO

 Jol Sappar, Hamirpur. 5)   Shiva   College   of   Education,   Abdhanighat,  
 Ghumarwin, Bilaspur. b) Management and Technology (Engineering): ­98­ 3) Shiva Institute of B. Pharmacy, Luhnoo, Kanitain,  
 Teh. Sadar, Bilaspur. 4) Dreamz College of Pharmacy, Khilra, Sundernagar,
 Mandi. . 5) Shanti Niketan College of Pharmacy, Malther, Teh. Balh, District Mandi. d) Polytechnic: E.  LIST   OF   PRIVATE   EDUCATIONAL   INSTITUTES

 OF   HIMACHAL   PRADESH   RECOMMENDED   FOR
 REMOVAL OF DEFICIENCIES AND ACTION AGAINST
 NCTE, H.P.U. AND REVENUE OFFICERS: Nurpur, Kangra. 3)   Vaishno   College   of   Education,   Village   Thapkour,  
 Teh. Nurpur, District Kangra. F. LIST OF PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
 HIMACHAL   PRADESH   RECOMMENDED   FOR
 REGISTRATION   OF   CRIMINAL   CASES,   CLOSURE
 AND ACTION AGAINST REVENUE OFFICERS: Jawalamukhi, District Kangra. . 3)R.C. College of Education (D.El.Ed.), Dhanot, Teh. Jawalamukhi, District Kangra. b)Management and Technology (Engineering) 1) Vaishno College of Engineering, Village Thapkour, 
 Teh. Nurpur, District Kangra. G.  LIST OF PRIVATE ITI's OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
 RECOMMENDED FOR REMOVAL OF DEFICIENCIES: Haroli, Una. 2) Modern Private ITI, Mairi, Teh. Amb, District Una. 3)   Shobit   Industrial   Training   Centre,   VPO   Chalola,  
 Teh. and District Una. 4)   Aryan   Private   ITI,   Bharwain,   Teh.   Amb,   District  
 Una. 5)   Global   Private   ITI,   Village   Bhadera,   Teh.   Haroli,  
 District Una. 6) Bhagat Ram Memorial Private ITI, Bhaloun, Teh.  
 Bangana, Una. 7) Kutlehar Private ITI, Balh, Teh. Bangana, District  
 Una. 8)   Saafat   Private   ITI,   Awahar,   PO   Hatli,   Teh.  
 Bangana, District Una. 9)   Optech   Vidya   Private   ITI,   City   Heart   Hotel,   Una  
 Road, Amb, District Una. 10)  Angel  Pvt. ITI, Patehar, PO Nehrian, Teh. Amb,  
 District Una. ­100­ 11)   Simona   Pvt.   ITI,   Daulatpur   Chowk,   Teh.   Amb,  
 District Una. 12) New Angel Pvt. ITI, Pekhubela, Teh. and District  
 Una. . 13) Him Gaurav Pvt. ITI Santoshgarh, District Una. 14)   Hari   Om   Pvt.   ITI,   VPO   Deegal,   Teh.   Nalagarh,  
 District Solan. 15)   Anand   Pvt.   ITI,   New   Nalagarh,   Teh.   Nalagarh,  
 District Solan. 16)   Anand   Pvt.   ITI   Joghon,   Teh.   Nalagarh,   District  

 Solan. 17) Shivalik Pvt. ITI, Ropar Road, Nalagarh, District  
 Solan. 18) Doon Pvt. ITI, Barotiwala, Baddi, District Solan. H.  LIST OF PRIVATE ITI's OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
 RECOMMENDED FOR CLOSURE: 86 However,   before   we   deal   with   the   reports   qua

 each of the aforesaid institutions, we notice that invariably in

 all   the   reports   furnished   by   the   SIT,   all   the   institutions,

 barring   a   few   institutions,   do   not   comply   and   fulfill   the

 instructional facilities that are required to be provided to the

 faculty members as also the non­teaching members are not

 being paid as per the UGC/State pay scale, as the case may

 be. Moreover, in majority of cases, no GPF or CPF is being ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:24 :::HCHP ­101­

 deducted   or   paid.   Therefore,   at   the   joint   request   of   the

 institutions,   we   grant   time   upto   the   commencement   of   the

 next   academic   session   to   comply   with   the   aforesaid

 . regulations as it has not been disputed at the bar that the

 instructions issued  by the concerned apex body with respect

 to the instructional facilities have to be complied with in its

 letter   and   spirit.   Thereafter,   if   any   institution   is   found

 wanting,   then   needless   to   say   that   it   shall   be   liable   for

 closure   as   it   has   already  been   put   to   caveat   regarding   the

 shortcoming. 87 During   the   course   of   hearing,   learned  amicus

 curiae    placed   before   us  newspaper  reports,   wherein   it  was

 pointed out that with nearly 50% of the seats in engineering

 colleges   across   the   country   remaining   vacant,   the   technical

 education   department   is   planning   to   merge   institutes   with

 high vacancies and  the officials of the  All India Council for

 Technical   Education   (AICTE)   who   are   aware   of   the

 developments said that institutes with over 50% vacancy, and

 good teaching and infrastructure facilities could be merged to

 avoid   being   shut   down.   It   has   been   recognized     that   for

 engineering courses, like other courses, there have been far

 less applications than the number of seats and  vacancies in

 institutes across the country have been increasing. In the last ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:24 :::HCHP ­102­

 five years, vacancies in engineering institutes approved by the

 AICTE   has   remained   over   47%,   with   2016­17   witnessing

 almost 54% seat vacancy. In December 2017 alone, six states

 . including   Haryana,   Rajasthan,   Madhya   Pradesh,   Himachal

 Pradesh,   Chhatisgarh   and   Telangana   had   requested   the

 AICTE   not   to   approve   new   colleges   as   the   demand   for

 engineering seats in their respective states was consistently

 low.   The   AICTE   had   acceded   to   requests   of   four   of   these

 states   after   an   initial   inspection.   Earlier   this   year,   the

 Maharashtra government wrote to the AICTE, requesting not

 to   grant   permission   to   new   diploma   or   degree   engineering

 colleges for 2018­19, which was accepted. Still, 42% of seats

 in Maharashtra's technical institutes went vacant in 2018­19. Not   only   this,   about   800   colleges   in   the   country   are   facing

 closure   for   having   poor   enrollment   and   have   requested   to

 cancel the admission for two years or to allow mergers. 88 The aforesaid facts will have to be borne in mind by

 us   while   deciding   the   instant   petition.   We   would   also   have   to

 bear in mind the decision rendered by us in CWP No. 1102 of

 2018,   titled   as H.P.   Private   B.Ed.   Colleges   Welfare   Association

 vs.   NCTE and   ors.,   decided   on     14.9.2018,   wherein   the

 Institutions aggrieved   by the infrastructural, instructional and

 other facilities which were required to be provided by them for ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:24 :::HCHP ­103­

 running   composite   J.B.T./D.El.Ed   courses,   had   sought   the

 following substantive reliefs: 89 This   Court,   after   taking   into   consideration   the

 material   placed   on   record,   found   that   the   NCTE   or   for   that

 matter AICTE was insisting  upon unnecessary high norms and

 standards of area and despite there being a provision for sharing

 of facilities, there was practically no such provision recognized

 by it constraining this Court to allow the petition by observing as

 under:­ 44. Therefore, it is necessary to bear this aspect of the
 norms   and   standards   to   be   prescribed   in   mind   for   a ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:24 :::HCHP ­104­

 major debate before us centered around the right of the
 NCTE   to   prescribe   standards   which   are   totally
 unrealistic and extremely difficult to meet. Besides that,
 providing of standards and making a provision therein

 . for     sharing   of   infrastructure   has   virtually   been

 rendered   otiose,   as   the   same   infrastructural
 requirement   have   been   prescribed   for   running   two

 separate courses i.e. B.Ed and D.El.Ed/JBT. 45. We otherwise see no reason why few of the facilities
 like reception, toilet(s), library, computer lab, in addition

 to   the   multipurpose   hall   cannot   be   shared   by   both
 courses. Likewise, wherever there are technical courses
 being run by the AICTE, in addition to the aforesaid, we

 see   no   reason   why   the   various   labs   like   integrated

 psychological   lab,   technological­cum­language   lab,
 computer lab, audio visual room etc. cannot be shared,
 especially when the same is specifically provided in the

 regulations. 46. It would, thus, be noticed that the Council has been

 entrusted   with   the   task   of   laying   down   uniform
 standards   to   achieve   planned   and   coordinated

 development   development   of   the   teacher   education
 system. However, the issue still remains at large as to

 whether   while   laying   down   these   uniform   standards,
 has   there   really   been   planned   and   pragmatic   or
 systematic study with regard to the infrastructure viz­a­
 viz hill States. Undoubtedly, a special provision though
 been made for the hill States as also the metropolitan
 cities,   Northern   and   North­Eastern   States   of   India.
 However,   even   though   a   special   provision   qua
 infrastructure has been made for the North­Eastern and
 hill States of India alongwith metropolitan States. When ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:24 :::HCHP ­105­

 it gets down to institutes running composite courses, no
 real endeavour has been made by the Council or else, it
 would not lay down such unrealistic norms which are
 otherwise   the   requirement   for   institution   running

 . individual courses. 47. At  the  end of  the  day, we  cannot  feign ignorance
 and  be oblivious to the fact that these institutions have

 spent huge amount of money to meet the requirement of
 infrastructure, library, staff  etc. and  unfortunately the
 intake of students is far far less than the one approved. It is rather shocking that in some of the institutes, the
 intake of student is barely two percent. 48.  Therefore, it  is  not   only  desirable  but  crucial   that

 more realistic and pragmatic standard for infrastructure

 for the hill States be made by the NCTE and other apex
 bodies who deal with the professional courses or else
 this   would   only   spell   doom   upon   the   existing

 institutions.   Therefore,   it   is   imperative   to   lay   down
 norms   or   standard   which   are   more   realistic   so   as   to

 ensure that these institutions ultimately do not land up
 or get concentrated in the hands of the affluent and few

 elite. 49. As observed earlier,  the respondents No. 1 and 2

 have   not   set   off   any   area   or   made   provision   for
 sharing of the infrastructural, instructional and other
 facilities,   even   though   after   having   mandatorily
 provided for the same in its regulation, thereby it has
 rendered   the   provision   as   otiose   and   redundant.
 Therefore,   its   action   of   prescribing   and   thereafter
 insisting on   the additional built up area of 1500 sq.
 mts., for the institution (s) already running both B.Ed ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­106­

 and   JBT/D.El.Ed.   Courses,   being   illegal,   arbitrary
 besides being  unjustified, is quashed and set aside. 50. The NCTE is directed to undertake comprehensive
 study and thereafter make suitable amendments in the

 . NCTE   Regulations,   2014   by   setting   off   and   counting

 those   areas   towards   common   amenities   which   can
 easily be permitted to be shared by the Institutions. 90 Now,   coming  to   the   reports   submitted   by  the   SIT,

 reports   of   the   VT   of   the   NCTE/AICTE   as   per   direction   of   this

 Court qua each of the Institutions and reply­affidavits   filed by

 the   institutions   controverting   therein   the   objections   qua

 instructional and infrastructural deficiencies pointed out by the

 aforesaid experts committees. A a) 1:  Shimla College of Education (B.Ed.), Chamiana,  
 Sanjauli, District Shimla. A a) 2:     Shimla College of Education (D.El.Ed.), 

   Sanjauli,  Shimla­6. institutions. The conclusions drawn by the SIT are as follows: executed a lease deed in favour of the college on

 28.9.2006   giving   half   portion   of   total   land
 measuring 8032 sq.mtrs comprising khasra Nos. 38 to 40 i.e. 4016 sq.mtrs alongwith the building
 constructed thereon for a period of 30 years on
 an   annual   rent   of   Rs.20,000/­   whereas   in   fact

 the   said   land   is   lying   vacant   and   no   such
 building had been constructed thereon. (iii) The   existing   building   of   the   institute   had   been

 constructed   on   Khasra   Nos.   4,9   and   10   which

 had not been leased out to the Trust as the land
 comprising the said Khasras stands in the name
 of   Ram   Kishan   son   of   Devi   Ram   as   per

 jamabandi and Revenue Records. (iv) The   building   plan   of   the   existing   building   had

 been   prepared   and   completion   certificate
 unauthorisedly   issued   by   Architect   Naresh

 Kumar   Gupta,   Draughtsman   of   HPPWD   in   his
 private capacity on 10.6.2007 falsely certifying

 that the total built up area was 1617 sq.mtrs.
 on khasra Nos. 38, 39 and 40 whereas in fact
 the  said  land  was  lying vacant  as  on date  of
 inspection. (v) As   against   a   minimum   requirement   of   4000
 sq.mtrs of built up area for B.Ed., D.El.Ed. and
 MBA   the   institute   was   having   only   2300
 sq.mtrs. of built up area. Even the institute was ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­108­

 not   having   sufficient   built   up   area   of   3000
 sq.mtrs. to run B.Ed and D.El.Ed courses. (vi) The   same   building   plan   had   been   dishonestly
 and fraudulently submitted to NCTE and AICTE

 . to   start   B.Ed.   D.El.Ed   and   MBA   courses   after

 making   some   alterations/additions   by   hand
 which   would   go   to   show   that   the   documents

 were   manipulated/forged   so   as   to   meet   the
 requirements   of   NCTE/AICTE.   These
 alterations/additions   had   been   done   by   Shri

 Naresh Gupta, Draughtsman of HPPWD and the
 same are in his handwriting and bear his seal
 and signatures. No separate buildings were in

 existence   to   run   B.Ed.   and   MBA   courses   and

 both the courses were being run from the same
 existing premises. (vii) The   institute   was   deficient   in   every   respect   in

 terms of land area, built up area, library, labs,
 computer lab, multipurpose hall, seminar room,

 Common Rooms, toilets etc. (viii)The institution lacks in faculty area in as much

 as   out   of   7   faculty   members   only   2   were
 approved by HPU and the remaining 9 faculty

 members claimed to be on the rolls of institute
 were absent. Even the Principal of the institute
 was not present and had not been approved by
 HPU." 92 Based   upon   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   the   SIT

 has   prayed   for   the   registration   of   criminal   case   against

 Dr.R.K.Shandil,   Founder   Trustee­cum­Chairman   of   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­109­

 Society   and   Sh.   N.K.   Gupta   for   obtaining   recognition/

 affiliation   on   the   basis   of   false   and   fabricated   documents

 regarding the land and building constructed there upon and

 . in addition thereto misrepresenting the facts from NCTE and

 SIT through various affidavits. 93 The report submitted by the SIT is contested by

 the institutions. In the initial reply filed by these institutions,

 which is available at page 351 of the paper book, it is pointed

 out   that   initially   the   Founder   Trustee­cum­Chairman   Dr.

 R.K.   Shandil   and   Smt.   Sunita   Shandil   as   a   trustee,   were

 running   a   Senior   Secondary   Public   School   in   the   name   of

 'Hill Grove Public School' from land comprised in Khewat No.

 30 min, Khatauni No. 69 min, Khasra Nos. 71/1 and 69 total

 measuring   10   bighas   and   7   biswas   situated   at   Mauza

 Chamiana, Pargana Chhabrogti, Tehsil and District Shimla. However,   lateron   during   the   course   of   construction   it   was

 pointed out by the revenue officials that one Khasra No. i.e.

 71/1 had been wrongly mentioned as 72/2 in the trust deed

 dated   15.3.1999,   therefore,   vide   supplementary   trust   deed

 dated   8.6.1999   the   said   mistake   was   rectified.   In   the   year

 1998,   the   Shimla   Educational   Society   Trust   applied   to   the

 Government   of   Himachal   Pradesh   for   'No   Objection

 Certificate' (NOC) for running MBA course, but the same did ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­110­

 not materalise and, therefore, the Shimla Educational Society

 Trust applied to National Council for Teachers Education (for

 short   NCTE),   for   running   B.Ed.   course     in   the   name   of

 . Shimla College of Education in the year 2005. Thereafter, the

 Shimla Educational Society Trust executed lease deed dated

 28.9.2006 giving half portion of land i.e. 4016 square meters

 to Shimla College of Education for running Teacher Training

 Courses   viz.,   B.Ed.,   J.B.T.,   D.El.Ed.,   M.Ed.   Etc.

 Subsequently,   the   Trust   made   addition   of   1000   square

 meters   in   the   built   up   area   with   separate   entrance   and

 infrastructure and began to run MBA course. 94 As   regards   the   certificate   issued   by   Architect

 N.K.   Gupta   of   HPPWD   unauthorizedly   certifying   the   total

 built up area as 1617 sq.mtrs, it is averred that the SIT is

 guilty of presenting the incorrect picture   with regard to the

 building   plan as it has ignored   the duly approved building

 plans   submitted   to   the   NRC/NCTE     seeking   recognition   of

 D.El.Ed. Course having total built up area of 3985 sq.mtrs. A

 copy   of   the   plan   has   also   been   annexed   with   the   reply. Thereafter,   the   institution   has   controverted   the   point­wise

 deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by   the   SIT   alongwith   material

 documents.   Not   only   this,   the   institution   has   filed   another

 affidavit. ­111­

 95 At   this   stage,   we   may   note   that   some   of   the

 institutions have already approached the Himachal Pradesh

 University for initiating steps for conducting interviews and

 . the University, in turn, has already drawn up a curriculum,

 as is evident from the affidavit filed on its behalf as available

 at Pages 1371­1393, 1400, 1403, 366 to 2740, respectively. 96 Thereafter, the institution filed another affidavit

 on   18.5.2018   wherein   it   was   stated   that   the   deficiencies

 pointed out by the SIT have already been adjudicated upon

 by   this   Court   in   CWP   No.   1217   of   2016   titled Shimla

 Education Society Trust and another vs. National Council for

 Teachers   Education   and   others   vide   judgment   dated

 8.11.2016 whereby the institutes were permitted to start the

 course in question i.e. D.El.Ed course for the session 2015­

 17  subject to  their transferring the  land  and built up  area

 thereupon in the name of the institution within a period of

 four weeks and the said directions were complied with within

 the stipulated period.   A Review Petition No. 5 of 2017 was

 preferred by the NCTE/NRC  for reviewing the aforesaid order

 which  was dismissed vide order dated 12.6.2017. However,

 still the NCTE/NRC failed to issue letter of recognition for the

 D.El.Ed. course which compelled the institution to approach

 this Court by way of CWP No. 151 of 2017 and vide interim ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­112­

 order   dated   18.1.2017   this   institution   was   allowed   to

 participate   in   the   counselling   for   1479   seats   for   private

 affiliated   institutes,   to   be   held   by   the   H.P.Board   of   School

 . Education. 97 Thus,   it   is   contended   that   the   SIT   has   raised

 totally   frivolous   and   incorrect   objections   against   this

 institution. It is further averred that subsequently the High

 Court   of   Delhi  in   its   judgment   dated   5.6.2017   rendered   in

 WP(C)   No.3976   of   2017   directed   the   NRC/NCTE   to   issue

 recognition   order   within   four   weeks   and   even   the   SLP   No.

 17013/2017   filed   by   NCTE   against   the   aforesaid   judgment

 was   dismissed     on   17.7.2017.   It   is   thereafter  clarified   that

 Sheesh   Ram,   Patwari,   Patwar   Circle,   Sanjauli,   in   the

 presence of the Trustee clearly pointed out that the building

 of   the   institute   was   situated   over   the   land   comprised   in

 Khasra No. 38. However, for the reasons best known to it, the

 SIT called another Patwari, who had not even conducted any

 survey   of   the   area   and   stated   that   the   building   was   not

 situated over khasra No. 38 but the same was on some other

 khasra number. It has been clarified that Khasra Nos. 38 to

 40 measuring 8;032 sq.mtrs. are in the name of   Hill Grove

 Public   School   Vaitamam   (through)   Shimla   Educational

 Society Trust and Dr.R.K. Shandil had already submitted the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:25 :::HCHP ­113­

 copy of the supplementary Trust Deed No. 37/2010 executed

 by him on 7.1.2010, which has not been taken into account

 by the SIT while preparing the report whereby Khasra Nos. . 4,8,   9,   10,   36,   41,   total   6   plots   measuring   6,908   sq.mtrs. have   been   transferred   in   the   name   of   Shimla   Education

 Society Trust and now, even Khasra No. 38 measuring 6,383

 sq.mtrs. stand transferred  in the name of the Shimla College

 of   Education   vide  supplementary  trust   deed  No.  378  dated

 9.12.2016,   the   mutation   whereof   also   stands   sanctioned

 being mutation No. 417 dated 12.12.2016. 98 It   has   further   been   averred   that   even   the

 Principal   Secretary   (Higher   Education),   to   the   Govt.   of

 Himachal   Pradesh   constituted   an   inquiry   committee   to

 enquire   into   the   matter   relating   to   the   ownership   and

 possession   of   the   land   comprised   in   Khata/Khatauni   No.

 99/226, Khasra Nos. 38, 39 & 40 measuring 8,032 sq.mtrs. situated   at   revenue   village   Chamyana,   Tehsil   and   District

 Shimla   pursuant   to   the   communication   dated   24.3.2017

 from the NRC/NCTE. The Committee found  that the College

 building   is   over   Khasra   No.   8.   Therefore,   it   is   not

 understandable how the building is being found to have been

 constructed   over   different   khasra   numbers   by   different

 committees when the fact of the matter is that the building is ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:26 :::HCHP ­114­

 situated over khasra No. 38. That apart, since the entire land

 comprised   in   Khasra   Nos.   4,   8,   9,   10,   38,   39,   40   etc.   has

 already   been   transferred   in   the   name   of   Shimla   Education

 . Society   Trust   (which   is   managing   Shimla   College   of

 Education), therefore, the further question viz. over which of

 these   khasra   numbers   the   college   building   has   been

 constructed, becomes immaterial. 99 At   this   stage,   we   may   now   advert   to   the

 inspection report of the Visiting Team (VT) NCTE conducted

 pursuant   to   the   directions   issued   by   this   Court.   The

 Committee has found the existing building to be situated in

 Khasra   No.   38   and   in   the   name   of   Shimla   College   of

 Education,   which   is   an   unit   of   Shimla  Educational   Society

 Trust. It has further been found that earlier lease deed   has

 been cancelled and the land as well as the building has been

 transferred   in   favour   of   the   Trust   and   reference   has   been

 made   to   the   subsequent   trust   deed.   However,   the   only

 exception   taken   by  the   Inspection   Committee   qua   the   land

 and   building  is   that   it   is   not   clear   where   the   building   has

 been constructed  i.e. over khasra No. 39 and 40 because as

 per the SIT report based on the document, the land bearing

 khasra No. 38 is vacant. ­115­

 100 As   regards   the   allegation   against   Architect

 Naresh Kumar Gupta, Draughtsman of HPPWD, it has been

 specifically   pointed   out   that   the   building   plan   has   been

 . prepared   and   building   completion   certificate   was

 unauthorizedly issued by the said Architect to the Pradhan,

 Gram Panchayat, Chamyana, Shimla. 101 As   regards   the   allegations   of   the   building  plan

 having   been   dishonestly   and   fraudulently   submitted   to   the

 NCTE and AICTE to start B.Ed., D.El.Ed., and MBA courses

 after   making   some   alterations/additions   in   his   hands,   the

 Visiting Team (VT) has categorically found the building to be

 having 4 blocks in  which  B.Ed.  and D.El.Ed. courses  were

 being   run   in   accordance   with   law   because   as   against   the

 requirement of 4000 sq.mtrs. of built up area, the institution

 was having  4536.10 sq.mtrs. for B.Ed. and D.El.Ed. which is

 sufficient     to   run   these   two   courses   according   to   NCTE

 norms. 102 As regards the exception taken by the SIT to the

 Seminar Room which according to it was not having adequate

 furniture and the class rooms were also inadequate,  it has

 been   reported   that   the   Seminar   room   was   equipped   with

 adequate furniture, public address system, black boards and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:26 :::HCHP ­116­

 speakers and the institution was having more than 12 class

 rooms for teaching purpose. 103 As   regards   the   allegation   of   the   SIT   that   the

 . Multipurpose   hall   is   inadequate,   it   is   reported   that   after

 inspection,   the   Multipurpose   hall     was   equipped   with   200

 chairs   with   public   address   system   and   was   found   to   be

 measuring more than 200 sq.mtrs. 104 As   regards   the   area   of   Girls   Common   Room

 being   inadequate   and   without   facilities   and   there   being   no

 boys common room, it has been found that the Girls common

 room   had cot with chairs, mirrors, almirahs with adjacent

 washroom   and   the   boys   common   room   was   having   the

 necessary furniture. The seating capacity of the library was

 found   to be 50 as against the report of the SIT that sitting

 capacity was only 25. International and local journals, CD­

 ROMS, magazines and news papers were found to be as per

 the   norms.   As   per   the   SIT   report,   journals   and   CD­ROMS

 were not available and the library was also not maintained as

 per the norms. 105 As   regards   the   OHPs,   the   Visiting   Team   found

 that ET lab has three OHP which were in working condition,

 psychology   lab   was   well   equipped   with   psycho   tests   and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:26 :::HCHP ­117­

 usage of those by the students   and social science lab was

 found to be fully equipped with teaching learning material. 106 As   regards   the   deficiencies   of   Computer   as

 . pointed out by the SIT, the Visiting Team has found that the

 Computer   lab   was   having   12   computers   which   were   in

 working   condition   and   the   website   of   the   college   was   also

 verified and found to be in working condition. 107 As regards the separate curriculum lab and Art

 and   Craft   resource   centre   being   not   available,   the   Visiting

 Team found the physical science lab, biology lab, chemistry

 lab, social science lab, language lab in working order and the

 craft   resource   centre   was   verified.   Now,   adverting   to   the

 report of the SIT regarding the separate health and physical

 education centre being unequipped, it has been specifically

 pointed out by the Visiting Team that the physical education

 centre was equipped with lot of sports material. Indoor and

 outdoor games were also available. Even the allegation that

 there was no parking  space, was not found to be correct as

 the Visiting Team found small parking area to be available

 with the institute. 108 Noticeably, the institute has, after the inspection

 conducted   by   the   aforesaid   Visiting   Team,   filed   a

 supplementary affidavit reiterating what all we have observed ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:26 :::HCHP ­118­

 above and in addition thereto, it has been submitted that the

 staff   employed   by   the   institute   for   teaching   B.Ed.   and

 D.El.Ed.   courses   has   been   duly   approved   by   the   H.P.

 . University   vide   approval   dated   15.7.2013,   24.8.2013,

 24.11.2014 and 28.8.2017 (Annexure R­14/E). 109 Having gone through the report of the SIT along

 with   its   recommendations,   we   are   clearly   of   the   view   that

 most   of   the   observations   may   have   been   true   and   even

 correct at the time when the SIT inspected the institutions in

 question.   However,   the   same   have   lost   their   efficacy   with

 passage of time, more particularly,  when the Visiting Team

 after physical verification, has not concurred with the report

 so   submitted   by   the   SIT.   That   apart,   most   of   the

 recommendations otherwise have lost their efficacy in view of

 the   entire   land   now   being   transferred   in   the   name   of   the

 trust, therefore, the request made by the SIT for registration

 of criminal case against Dr. R.K. Shandil, Founder Trustee­

 cum­Chairman of the Society and Sh. N.K. Gupta, Architect

 for obtaining recognition/affiliation on the basis of false and

 fabricated  documents,  is   totally  ill­founded  and  cannot   be

 countenanced   in   view   of   the   material   that   has   otherwise

 come on record. ­119­

 110 Consequently,   the   recommendations/

 objections/ suggestions etc. made by the SIT are overruled

 and the institute is permitted to continue with the course in

 . accordance   with   law   with   a   clear   stipulation   that   all

 instructional   deficiencies   shall   be   removed   by   the   next

 academic session and the concerned apex body shall be at

 liberty   to   inspect   the   institute   at   any   time   after   the   next

 academic session and take action, if any, as is called for or

 warranted in the given circumstances. A a) 3:   Deen Dayal Upadhayay, College of Education,  
 Mehre, Badsar, Hamirpur. 111 The   SIT   on   the   basis   of   the   preliminary   inquiry,

 scrutiny of records and physical verification of the institute has

 drawn the following conclusion:­ (i) The institute owns 173 sq.mtrs. of land stands in
 the  name   of  Shri  Ram  Rattan  Sharma,   ex­MLA  and  his

 sons but the same had not been registered either in the
 name of the College or the Society. The built up area is

 also short to run two basic units of B.Ed. Course. (ii) The claim made by the institute that they own 13
 Kanal   3   Marla   of   land   on   which   the   institution   was
 constructed  appears  to  be  false  and  incorrect  inasmuch
 as   the   College   had   been   built   up   on   two   Khasra   Nos.
 3340 and  3341, besides that a small portion of land is
 lying vacant. ­120­

 112 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusion,   it   has

 been   prayed   that   since   the   institute   lacks   in   basic

 infrastructure and instructional facilities to run two basic units

 . of B.Ed. Course, directions be issued to NCTE and HPU not to

 extend any further recognition and affiliation to this institute. However,   the   institute   may   continue   to   complete   the   course

 already   started   by   them     by   it   that   the   students,   who   had

 already been admitted, do not suffer. 113 The   institute   had   controverted   the   allegations   of

 the   SIT   by   filing   a   reply   (pages   65   to   116).   However,   the

 observations   of   the   SIT   have   been   rendered   virtually

 inconsequential because of the inspection ordered by this Court

 to be carried out by the Apex body. Thereafter another affidavit

 was filed which is available at page Nos. 2119 to 2200. At this

 stage, we need not  refer to them in view of the report of the

 Verification   Team  (VT)  (pages   Nos.   3496   to   3499)  carried   out

 pursuant   to   the   report   submitted   to   this   Court.   The   VT

 members have,  in fact, found the  institute  to  be having land

 measuring   3525.48   sq.   mtrs.   as   against   the   requirement   of

 3000 sq. mtrs. and built up area of 1961.76 sq.mtrs. as against

 the   requirement   of   2000   sq.   mtrs.,   thereby   completely

 rebutting the deficiencies as pointed out by the SIT. Even the

 other recommendations of the SIT have not been found to be ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:26 :::HCHP ­121­

 correct   and   the   institute   was   only   found   to   be   lacking   in

 instructional facilities, for which we have already granted time

 up to next academic session. . 114 Apart from the above, the institute  has also filed

 an application being CMP No. 7083 of 2018 (Page 6003 to 6021)

 for     placing   on   record   the   additional   documents   whereby

 permission   had   already   been   sought   from   the   State

 Government   under Section   118 of   the   Himachal   Pradesh

 Tenancy   and   Land   Reforms   Act,   1972,   and   directions   for

 deciding the said application had already been issued by this

 Court   to   the   Deputy   Commissioner,   Hamirpur   to   decide   the

 application within the prescribed period and take decision   by

 the next academic session. 115 Apart   from   the   instructional   deficiency,   the

 institute is not lacking any other deficiency and, therefore, the

 recommendations of the SIT are set aside and, accordingly, the

 institute is permitted to run two courses subject to the removal

 of instructional deficiencies  by the next academic session. A a) 4:  Sri   Sai   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),   Kohla,  
 Tehsil Nadaun, Hamirpur. A a) 5:  Sri   Sai   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),   Kohla,  
 Tehsil Nadaun, Hamirpur. 116 Since   both   these   institutions   have   been   closed

 down and  there is no further permission sought for re­opening ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:27 :::HCHP ­122­

 the same, we need not go into the report or recommendations of

 the SIT. A a) 6:  Himalayan   College   of   Education,   Vill.   Pungh,  

 . Sundernagar, Mandi, H.P.

 117 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report  No.   7   (pages   3   to 10), after scrutiny of the records and physical inspection of the

 institution, has pointed out the following shortcomings:­ (i) The land on which the institute had been constructed
 is measuring 998 sq.mtrs. only (Khasra Nos. 1348 and
 1349)   which   do   not   conform   to   the   NCTE   norms. However, the Society claimed that they had another piece

 of   land   measuring   6­9­4   bighas   i.e.   5226.14   sq.mtrs
 (Khasra   Nos.   257,   264,   279,   289,   293,   306,   309   and 315) situated in Muhal Bhanglera on lease for 30 years

 by concealing the fact that this piece of land was situated
 at   a   distance   of   about   5­6   kms.   from   the   said   College

 building. (ii)  The institute  totally lacks    in terms of total area as

 well as built up area. (iii)   The   institute   is   also   lacking   in   infrastructure

 particularly about the furniture, fixtures, labs and other
 facilities like multipurpose hall, common rooms etc. (iv) The institute lacks in instructional area inasmuch as
 the institute was without any eligible Principal and 50%
 of faculty members' post were lying vacant. (v) The institute is not able to accommodate/educate 100
 students inasmuch as they are totally lacking in the field
 of infrastructure as well as instructional area. ­123­ (vi)   The   institute   did   not   file   the   mandatory   affidavit
 required to be uploaded on the website of NCTE as per
 NCTE norms till the date of inspection. . 118 In this background, the SIT has prayed that since

 the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and   instructional

 facilities and recognition and affiliation had been obtained by

 concealment of facts and submission of misleading affidavits,

 directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   for   cancellation   of

 recognition and affiliation thereof after the present two batches

 pass out and no further admission be allowed for the Sessions

 2017­19. 119 The institute  prior, to the inspection being ordered

 by this Court, had filed its reply to the objections of the SIT,

 wherein it was averred that initially permission was granted for

 100 seats of B.Ed., but later on permission was granted by the

 H.P.   University   to   increase   B.Ed.   Course   seats   to   100+100   =

 200 seats. 120 However,   the   fact   remains   that   the   College   had

 admitted only 100 students and as per the admitted strength

 there   is   no   deficiency   in   the   infrastructure   of   the   college. Thereafter,   the   institute   had   submitted   representation   dated

 25.08.2017 for reducing the intake of one unit i.e. 50 students

 and  admitted only 50 students for the Sessions 2017­19. ­124­

 121 The   institution   later   on   filed   supplementary

 affidavit   wherein   it   was   pointed   out   that   pursuant   to   the

 inspection conducted by the VT of AICTE most of the objections

 . as raised by the SIT were found to have been removed. It has

 been further averred that as per UGC norms total area required

 for   B.Ed.   Course   is   2500   sq.   mtrs.   Out   of   the   same,   2000

 sq.mts. built up area is necessary, whereas the institution  is

 having 2785 sq. mtrs. (998 sq. mtrs. on the basis of lease deed

 for   the   year   2008   and   1799   sq.   mtrs.   and   lease   deed   dated

 12.06.2018 and both these lease deeds were for the period of

 30 years. 122 That   apart,   land   measuring   Khasra   Nos.   1348,

 1349   (in  old  lease   deed)  and  Khasra  Nos.   1330,  1333,   1339,

 1352, 1353, 1355, 1356, 1362, 1364, 1365, 1366, 1367, 1376,

 1377, 1380, 1381 and 1382 kitas 17 measuring 4382 sq. mtrs. out of which Society had taken only 1999 sq. mtrs. Both pieces

 of land   was taken on lease were adjoining to each other and

 institution has now about 1680 sq. mtrs. built up area and had

 also undertaken to remove the deficiencies by 31 st July, 2018. 123 As regards the inspection conducted by the VT, the

 same   is   available   at   pages   3502­3506   of   the   paper   book,

 wherein the objections regarding area is stated to be partially ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:27 :::HCHP ­125­

 removed as the institution  is now in possession of 998+1799

 sq. mtrs. land on the basis of the lease dated 12.06.2018. 124 As   regards   the   other   deficiencies,   except   for

 . instructional,   the   same   are   stated   to   be   removed   and   it   is

 reported that there is no INTERNET facility in the computer lab,

 and   only   8   computers   out   of   11   that   were   available   in   the

 computer lab are in working condition. 125 The   institution   has   thereafter   controverted   the

 report of the VT by filing supplementary affidavit wherein it is

 reported that institute is in possession of total area 2785 sq.

 mtrs., which though on private lease is of no consequence as

 the   Society   has   already   moved   an   application   for   grant   of

 permission  under Section  118 of  the  H.P.  Tenancy and  Land

 Reforms Act, in the year, 2009 and latter on when norms were

 amended in 2014, Society had again moved an application on

 prescribed   form   for   grant   of   permission   to   purchase   the

 aforesaid   land.   In   support   of   such   contention,   both   the

 applications   have   been   annexed   as   Annexure   R36/E.   Now,

 since the institute has already moved applications for grant of

 permission  under Section  118 of  the  H.P.  Tenancy and  Land

 Reforms   Act,   we   otherwise   really   do   not   find   any   of   the

 shortcomings   of   such   nature   that   the   institute   cannot   be

 permitted   to   run   the   courses.   Accordingly,   we   permit   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:27 :::HCHP ­126­

 institute to run these courses, however, subject to its fulfilling

 its infrastructural/ instructional facilities by the next academic

 session   and   by   submitting   the   lease   deed,   after   seeking

 . approval from the State Government to purchase the aforesaid

 land,   within   six   months.   In   the   meanwhile,   the   State

 Government is directed to consider and decide the applications

 submitted by the institution as expeditiously as possible and in

 no event later than the next academic session. Blooms College of Education,  (D.El.Ed.), Village

 Kot,  Tehsil Balh, Distt. Mandi, H.P.

 126 The SIT in its Progress Report No. 7 (pages 20 to 26), after scrutiny of the records and physical inspection of the

 institution   has   come   to   the   categorical   conclusion   that   the

 institution   lacks   infrastructural   as   well   as   instructional

 facilities and therefore has sought directions to the NCTE and

 HPU   for   cancellation   of   recognition   and   affiliation   after   the

 present  batches pass out, with a further prayer that no further

 permission be granted for the Sessions 2017­19. 127 The VT report qua these institutions is available at

 pages   3507­3510   and   the   only   objection   raised   by   the   VT   is

 that   even   though   the   college   is   having  RCC  building  but   the

 land was on private lease which was given to the Society in the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:27 :::HCHP ­127­

 year 2006 and as per the NCTE Regulations 2002 and as per

 Regulations 2014, the institution must have its own land and

 building. . 128 That part, it has been stated that as against the

 required built up area of 3500, the institution was having total

 built up area of 3140 sq. mtrs., as per the building completion

 certificate   dated   02.01.2013,   which   according   to   us   is   more

 than sufficient. 129 In   the   given   circumstances,   the   institution   is

 afforded time up  to the next  academic session to remove the

 objections as raised by the VT or it shall be liable to be closed

 down   and   this   fact   shall   be   brought   to   the   notice   of   all   the

 students who have sought admission in this institution. A a) 9: Himachal   Institute   of   Education,   c/o   Solan  

 Public School, Bye­pass Road, Solan. 130 The SIT in its Progress Report No. 7 (pages 94 to 101),   after scrutiny  of  the   records   and  physical  inspection   of

 the institute, has pointed out the following deficiencies:­ (i) The   institution   is   about   18   years   old   but   no
 improvements have been carried out. (ii) The   land   and   built   up   area   is   too   short   and   the
 institute was being run in a rented premises (which is
 owned by Shri K.L. Dhar himself) with a total area of
 485 sq. mtrs only in utter violation of NCTE norms. ­128­ (iii)   This   institution   totally   lacks   in   infrastructure,
 furniture,   instruments,   equipment   and   the   basic
 facilities for B.Ed. Course are not available. (iv)   The   institute   also   miserably  lacks   in   instructional

 . area as there was no Principal and only three faculty

 members   were   available   who   were   not   approved   by
 HPU.   Shri   K.L.   Dhar,   Chairman   of   the   Society   aged

 about 92 years was himself looking after the work of
 the Principal. Besides that there is no supporting staff
 like Librarian, Technical Assistant, Lab Assistant and

 store keeper. 131 It has been prayed that since the institution totally

 lacks   in   infrastructure   and   instructional   area   and   is   unfit   to

 run B.Ed. Course, therefore, no further admission be allowed to

 the institution and recognition and affiliation granted to them

 by   NCTE/HPU   be   ordered   to   be   cancelled   after   the   present

 batch of students pass out. 132 In   reply  that   was   initially   filed   by  the   institution

 (pages 312 to 317) to the report of the SIT, it has been stated

 that   previously   the   institution   was   running   in   two   adjoining

 buildings having total covered area of 7514 sq. feet and now 3 rd

 building has also been added to run the college and is having

 covered   area   of   8281   sq.   feet.   All   the   three   buildings   were

 jointly   owned   by   the   Director   of   the   Society   and   have   been

 leased out to the Society. ­129­

 133 In   addition   thereto,   it   was   pointed   out   that

 institution   was   having  spacious   library   with   more   than   3000

 books and besides this the institution was having auditorium

 . with   a   stage   to   accommodate   more   than   125   persons   and,

 therefore, fulfilled  most of the infrastructural and instructional

 requirement as per the norms. 134 The   VT   in   its   report,   which   is   available   at   page

 3512 to 3516 has found that the institution was still running

 from the house and construction of the new building had not

 been   completed   and   had,   in   fact,   been   delayed   due   to

 discrepancy   in   the   revenue   record.   However,   it   was   admitted

 that the construction was going on in full swing. It was found

 that no online journals and CD­ROMs were available. 135 On   the   direction   passed   by   this   Court,   the

 Institute   has   filed   the   supplementary   affidavit.   From   the

 perusal   of   the   supplementary   affidavit   it   is   evident   that   the

 institute now stands shifted to new premises and there is no

 shortcoming   insofar   as   the   infrastructural   facilities   are

 concerned.    Therefore,   the   institute   is   permitted   to   run   its

 courses. ­130­

 A a) 10:  Lakshay   Institute   of   Education,   Village  
 Manjyat, Tehsil Arki, District Solan,H.P.

 136 The SIT in its Progress Report  No.8 (pages 18 to

 . 24) has pointed out following shortcoming/deficiencies:­

 (I)   The   lease   deeds   executed   for   30   years   were
 cancelled without the knowledge  of NCTE. (ii)   A new  building   under  construction  is  incomplete
 and one floor in a semi­furnished condition, is being
 used for running B.Ed. College. (iii)The   College   premises   shifted     without   the
 knowledge of NCTE. (iv)   No   infrastructural   facilities   are   available   in   the

 new building. 137 It   has   been   prayed   that   since   the   institution

 totally   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   instructional   area   and

 College   building   is   still   under   construction,   directions   be

 issued   to   NCTE   and   HPU   to   cancel     the   recognition   and

 affiliation of this institution and students be shifted to other

 Colleges. 138 Objections to the report of SIT have been filed by

 the   institution   (pages   3340­3380)   wherein   it   has   been

 averred   that   the   institution   has   constructed   building   at

 Village Manjyat in Khasra No.438/180 (new Khasra Nos.804,

 874 and 875) measuring 3084 square metres which is over

 and above the requirement of 2500 square metres.  However, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:28 :::HCHP ­131­

 it is not at all necessary to refer to the said objections in view

 of   the   report   submitted   by  the   VT   wherein   deficiencies     as

 pointed out  by the SIT with regard to the building and built­

 . up   area   have   been   stated   to   be   removed     and   it   has   been

 pointed   out   that   land   at   village   Manjyat,   Plot   No.438/180,

 measuring 3085 square metres   has already been registered

 under NCTE in the year 2008 and the building was already

 constructed  over this land. However, it appears that the only

 objection by the NCTE qua this aspect of the matter is that

 the shifting of the institution to the new land and building

 premises     has     not   been   approved   by   the   NCTE   as   the

 permission   for   the   same   was   never   obtained     by   the

 institution.  However, this deficiency can ever be removed  at

 any   point   of   time.   That   apart,   it   has   been   reported   in   the

 inspection   report     that   the   multipurpose   hall   requires

 plastering  and there was no internet  connection since there

 was   no   broad   band   facility   in   this   area.     Rest   are   only

 instructional   deficiencies   for   the   removal   of   which   we   have

 already granted  time upto the next academic session. 139 We   may   also   point   out   that   the   institution

 otherwise   has   filed   an   affidavit/undertaking   (pages   4234­

 4237)   wherein   it   has   been   stated   that   the   institution   has

 already applied for change of premises and the NCTE Visiting ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:28 :::HCHP ­132­

 Team  has inspected  the new building of the premises and as

 regards deficiency of plastering and flooring of multipurpose

 hall, the same  has been undertaken to be removed  by 25 th

 . July,   2018.   As   far   as   the     INTERNET   connection   is

 concerned,   Wi­fi   Dongle   of   Reliance   JIO   has   already   been

 installed and even talks with the BSNL   are going on.   It is

 further averred that as against   requirement of 1500 square

 metres for running of  two basic units of B.Ed., the institute

 is possessed of 2500 square metres. 140 In   light   of   what   has   come   on   record,   the

 recommendations   of   the   SIT   obviously   cannot   be   accepted. Therefore, the institution is   permitted to continue with the

 courses     run   by   it   subject   to   its   removing   instructional

 deficiencies  by the next academic session. A b) 1: H.P.   Institute     of   Management   Studies  

 (M.B.A.) Mauja Majid, Totu, Shimla. A b) 2: H.P.   Institute     of   Management   Studies  

 (M.C.A.) Mauja Majid, Totu,Shimla. 141 As per report of the Special Expert Committee,

 no admission of students for academic year 2016­17 onwards

 for both MBA and MCA Courses  have been made and there

 were only five students   of MCA (A.Y. 2015­2016, who have

 appeared   in   their   final   examination   in   April,   2018   i.e.   6 th

 semester. Not only this, the institution has already   applied ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:28 :::HCHP ­133­

 for closure of MBA and MCA Courses from the Academic Year

 2018­19 to AICTE in January, 2018. That being the position,

 we need not delve into the report submitted by the SIT and

 . accordingly, we close the matter qua these institutions. A c) 1: Himalayan   Polytechnic   Kala   Amb,   District  
 Sirmaur. 142 The SIT in its Progress Report No.7 (pages 124 to 131)   has   drawn   the   following   conclusions   against   the

 institution:­ (i)There is no demarcation of land for the Polytechnic. All the institutions of  the 'Maa Saraswati Educational

 Trust' are situated  on Khasra No.390/109 without any
 demarcation.   The   whole   area   of   Khasra   number   is
 measuring 41.2 bighas which is not sufficient even for

 the   Engineering   &   Technology   Institute,   whereas,   the
 Trust   is   running   Polytechnic,   Pharmacy,     Computer

 Sciences, MBA, B.Tech., B.Ed., D.EI,Ed.,  LLB, Nursing,
 BBA   and   BCA   institutes   from   the   said   Khasra

 No.390/109. (ii) The administrative area is shared with the other

 courses.     Some   of   the   labs   and   workshop   are   being
 shared with B.Tech.  Courses. (iii) The Polytechnic lacks in infrastructure of   class
 rooms, labs, workshop etc. (iv) False   and   fabricated   information     has   been
 uploaded   on   the     web   portal   of   AICTE   for   obtaining
 extension of approval for the year 2016­17. ­134­

 143 It   has   been   prayed   that   since   the   institution

 lacks   the infrastructure and instructional area, recognition

 and affiliation and extension of approval  had been obtained

 . on  the basis of misrepresentation    and submission of false

 information/documents/affidavits,   therefore,   directions   be

 issued   to   AICTE/HPTSB   to   cancel   the   recognition     and

 affiliation   of   the   said   Polytechnic   after   the   present   batches

 pass out.   In  addition thereto, it has been prayed that  the

 acts of commission and omission concerning this Polytechnic

 and   various   other   institutes   being   run     from   same

 land/campus   may   be   looked   into   during   the   course   of

 investigation of the case relating to approval   of Himalayan

 Institute of Engineering and Technology. 144 It   is   not   in   dispute   that   only   last   batch   of

 Polytechnic   is   being   run   in   the   institute   and   the   AICTE

 otherwise has no objection  to the closure  of the Polytechnic. As   a   matter   of   fact,   this   Court,   vide     its   order   dated

 25.06.2018 had directed EVC to conduct fresh inspection of

 this   institution   and   to   file   its   report   whether     the

 infrastructure   as   possessed   by   the   institution   is   sufficient

 and   meets   the   requirement   as   envisaged   under   AICTE

 regulations so as to enable the students of 2 nd  and  3rd  years

 to complete courses/studies. ­135­

 145 The   EVC   submitted   its   report,   according   to

 which,   available faculty and facilities are sufficient for the

 existing     number   of   2nd  and   3rd    years   courses,   especially

 . keeping in view that the Polytechnic has already applied for

 the closure  of the institution.  As regards the other prayer of

 the SIT, we are not inclined to grant the same and this aspect

 of   the   matter,   we   will   consider   while   dealing   with   other

 institutions  run by 'Maa  Saraswati Educational Trust'. C a) 12: Himachal   College   of   Education   (B.Ed.),  

 KalaDistrict Sirmaur. C a) 13: Himachal   College   of   Education   (D.El.Ed.),  
 Kala­Amb, District Sirmaur. 146 The SIT in its Progress Report No.7 (pages 65 to 72), on the basis of physical inspection and after scrutiny of

 records, has concluded as follows:­ (i) The institute totally lacks in infrastructure and built up

 area was being shared with Engineering, MBA, LLB and
 Nursing courses. In fact the total land and built up area
 was even deficient for B.Ed. and D.El.Ed. courses. (ii)   The   labs   were   ill   equipped   and   other   faculties   like
 Seminar room etc. were not available. (iii)   the   institute   did   not   have   regular   Principal/faculty
 members and none of them had been approved by HPU.
 Most of the faculty members were appointed in July, 2016
 and were being shared for all the courses being run by the
 institute. ­136­ (iv) Shri Rajnish Bansal, Chairman of the Trust had given
 two false affidavit  dated 06.05.2013 and 30.11.2013 in
 which it had been misrepresented that the building was
 constructed on khasra Nos. 554/190, 555/190, 559/111

 . and   561/112   whereas   in   fact   one   building   had   been

 constructed only on khasra no. 390/109 which was being
 shared for B. Ed., D.El.Ed. Nursing, LLB and Engineering
 courses   and   there   was   no   demarcation   for   any   one   of

 them. 147 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusion, it has

 been prayed: C b) 4: Himalayan Institute of Management, Kala­Amb,
 District Sirmaur,H.P.

 148 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.7   (at   pages

 140­148)   after   scrutiny   and   physical   inspection,   have

 concluded as follows: Institute as well as BBA/BCA courses and there is no

 . separate  building exclusively for MBA. 3. There is shortage of class rooms. The conference
 room/seminar   hall,   reception   office,   placement   office,

 canteen, office all inclusive, store room etc. are shared
 with the other courses. 4. There is no common room for boys and the girls. 5. There is acute shortage of senior faculty as well
 as Asstt. Professors. 6. There   is   an   acute   shortage   of   books   in   the

 library. 149 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusion, it has

 been prayed that : 150 The   SIT   in   its   report   (at   pages   149­161)   after

 . inspection report has concluded as follows: ­139­

 151 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusion, it has

 been prayed that: 152 Before   we   take   up   the   observations   and

 conclusions   made   by   the   SIT,   it   would   be   noticed   that   all

 . these institutions are being run by Maa Saraswati Education

 Trust, which is   admittedly owner in possession of the total

 land   measuring   126.14   bighas   situate   in   Mauja   Ogli   and

 Mauja   Khairi,   Tehsil   Nahan,   District   Sirmour,   H.P.     The

 details of the institutions standing  uopn land in Mauja Ogli

 are as under:­

 Sl. Name of College/Institutions Area (in sq.
 No. mts.)
 1 The H.P. College of Education for 5890.00. B.Ed. and D.El.Ed. 2 Himalayan   Institute   of 11200
 Engineering and Technology
 3 Himalayan   Institute   of 2515.00 

 Management (MBA)

 4 Himalayan Institute of Computer 2403.00 
 Science (MCA)
 5 Himalayan Institute of Pharmacy 3530.00 

 6 Himalayan   Polytechnic   (under 8460.00 
 closure)   as   no   fresh   admission
 taken   for   the   Academic   Session
 2018­19. total Number of current
 students   numbering   104   in   2nd
 year and 3rd year are to pass out,
 whereafter   the   same   will   be
 closed. 7 Girls Hostel 1 and 2 9401.00 
 8 Boys Hostel 1 and 2 9305.00 
 9 Law Block 2250.00 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:29 :::HCHP ­141­

 10 Total Area 54954  
 or
 591360   sq.
 ft. . 153 The land is situated in two parcels. One parcel

 measuring   53.19   bighas   and   13.06   bighas   (measuring   in

 total 66.25 bighas), which are absolutely contiguous to each

 other. The educational institution has been established and

 running   on   this   piece   of   land.     The   other   parcel   of   land

 measuring 59.09 bighas is situated in Mauja Khairi, Tehsil

 Nahan  at a distance of 1.5 kms and is used for the purpose

 of playground and hostel. 154 Evidently, there are group of colleges being run

 by the same society and the VT of the NCTE has physically

 inspected the premises of the institution on 11.06.2018 and

 submitted   its   report   (pages   3135­3137)   wherein   it   has   not

 noticed   any   deficiency   whatsoever   and   has   separately

 appended 11 notes at the end of the report, which read thus:­ 1.   As   per   new   resolution   taken   by   management   on
 15.12.2017, khasra no. 390/109, it is mentioned for B.Ed.
 and D.El.Ed. courses an TEIs. In site map and building plan.
 Documentation shown as (a) for both these courses, land use
 certificate   from   panchayat   and   building   plan   approved   by
 the competent authority also allowed. 2. As per site map and building plan, area shown as (a) the
 building  is constructed  on Khasra  no. 3920/109  only and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:29 :::HCHP ­142­

 documentation   have   been   done   for   B.Ed.   and   D.El.Ed.,
 Nursing, MBA etc. separately. 3. Total built up area as per site map building plan for both
 the courses is 5890 sq. mtrs. (Ground floor to 3rd  floor) and

 . the total land used for building is 4873.70 sq. mtrs. 4.   While   applying   by   the   college   to   the   NCTE   about   the
 khasra no. 559/190, 555/190, 559/111 and 561/112 was
 bonafide   mistake   by   the   authority   the   undertaking   by  the

 authority is allotted for compliance. 5. Well equipped seminar room is available with computer,
 OHP and LCD projectors etc. 6.   The   multipurpose   hall   having   near   about   150   seating
 capacity provided with public address. 7. The girls common room having seating facilties adequate

 furniture with games is available. 8. The seating capacity of the library is about 50 and it is
 more   than   sufficient   for   the   strength   of   100   (50+50)
 students.   Total   books   are   5496   under   title   2161   are

 available   and   online   journal   are   available   and   books
 purchased   in   current   academic   session   for   Rs.60,000   on
 06.01.2018. The purchase bill is attached. 9.   Curriculum   labs   for   Social   Studies,   Math,   Science   and

 Humanities,   Health   physics,   Arts   and   craft   are   available
 with adequate TLMS. 10. As per plot no. 1. 11. New principal appointed on 06.01.2018 and joined Dr.
 Nisha   Sharma   having   approved   as   principal   from   her
 previous  college and  now  applied  to  the  HP University  for
 new approval as principal of this college, the copy of which
 is allotted. At present there are 23 faculty members out of
 what one has net qualified and one having Ph.D. and one
 faculty has M.Phil. Other faculty have desired qualification
 as per NCTE and UGC norms. They are going consolidated ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:29 :::HCHP ­143­

 salary from banks (PNB, SBI, OBC) starts from 21,600/­ to
 Rs.40,000/­. 155 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 . objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can be now taken in view of

 the   judgment   rendered   by   this   Court   in   CWP   No.   1102   of

 2018, titled H.P. Private  B.Ed.  Colleges Welfare  Association

 vs.   National   Council for   Teacher   Education   and   others,

 decided on 14.9.2018. 156 The conclusions drawn by the SIT, insofar as it

 relate   to   the   instructional   deficiencies   are   concerned,   the

 same have been removed and are otherwise deemed to have

 been   removed   not   only   on   account   of   closure   of   various

 courses, but also on account of this Court having permitted

 sharing of the ultrastructure. 157 As   regards   recognition   and   affiliation   having

 been   obtained   by   falsehood,   we   really   see   no   reason   or

 occasion   for   carrying   the   matter   any   further   and   deem   it

 proper to give a quietus to the issue. Ordered accordingly. 158 In  addition   to  the  above,   we  also   find  that  the

 society   has   annexed   thereof   the   site   plan   reflecting   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:29 :::HCHP ­144­

 separate blocks of various institutions that are being used by

 the   Trust   for   conducting   different   courses,   wherein   the

 detailed   floor   wise   plans   have   been   annexed.   In   addition

 . thereto the purchase order of certain tax invoices have been

 annexed which clearly indicate and go to show that there is

 no shortcoming in these institutions. 159 Accordingly,   after   having   gone   through   the

 reports submitted by the SIT and VT and reply/affidavits filed

 thereto   by   the   Society,   the   courses   being   currently   run   by

 the   Society   ought   to   be   permitted,   subject   to   the   Society

 removes the deficiencies in instructional facilities by the next

 academic session.  Ordered accordingly. B a) 1: Jupiter   College   of   Education,   Mairi,   Tehsil  
 Amb, Una. 160 On the basis of the scrutiny of the records  and

 physical inspection, the SIT in its report (pages 16 to21) has

 drawn the following conclusions:­ (i)         That   the   building   of   the   said   College   had   been
 constructed   on   Khasra   Nos.4212   and   4211,   out   of
 which land on Khasra No.4211 was not owned by the
 Trust   and   stood   in   the   name   of   Smt.Manjit   Kaur
 Panesar, a trustee and widow of late Shri Balbir Singh
 Panesar. (ii)    That the Seminar Room was not available. ­145­ (iii) That   there   were   no   proper   boys   and   girls
 common rooms. (iv) That the library was not fully equipped with the
 books,   photocopying   machine   and   computer   with

 . internet facility. (v) That   the   Health   and   Physical   Education   Lab,
 Arts and Crafts Lab, Computer Lab, Language Lab and

 ET/Psychology   Lab   needed   to   be   established/
 revamped. (vi) That   the   Principal   and   other   faculty   members

 need   to   be   appointed   with   the   approval/concurrence
 of H.P. University as per norms and they needed to be
 paid as per UGC/State pay scales. (vii) That   the   other   supporting   staff   like   Office

 Assistant,   Store   Keeper,   Technical   Assistant,   Lab
 Attendant,   Computer   Lab   Attendant   needed   to   be
 appointed as per norms. 161 It was prayed that the directions be issued   to

 H.P.   University   and   NCTE   not   to   allow   any   further

 admissions from the next session till all the deficiencies as

 pointed   out   in   the   report     are   complied     with   by   the

 institution   with   a   view   to   impart   quality   education   to   the

 students in Himachal Pradesh. 162 In   compliance   to   the   directions   passed   by   this

 Court,   the   VT   in   its   report   (pages   3172­3175)   has   not

 concurred     with   the   deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by  the   SIT

 and   has   rather   stated   that   all   these   deficiencies   stand ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:29 :::HCHP ­146­

 removed. The only objection   is with regard to   play ground

 and parking not being spacious and the payment being  not

 made to the staff as per NCTE norms.   In addition thereto,

 . the required land has not so far been transferred either in the

 name of the Trust or in the name of the institution and the

 area of 1938 square metres as against   requirement of total

 area is not sufficient  as per norms. 163 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,

 obviously, they have to be complied with as was  pointed out

 by the SIT,  by the next academic session. 164 At this stage, we may notice that the institution

 has filed supplementary affidavit­cum­ undertaking  wherein

 it is pointed out that in addition to the land measuring 1938

 square   metres,   there   is   another   piece   of   land   comprising

 Khewat   No.451,   Khatauni   No.   553,   Khasra   No.   4211,

 measuring   00­05­66   hectare,   situated     at   Up   Mohal   Meri

 Khas,   Tehsil   Amb,   District   Una,   in   the   name   of   the

 Chairperson of the Trust Smt. Manjit Kaur and the building

 of the College is standing over  Khasra Nos. 4211 and 4212. As regards Khasra No.4211, the same was purchased   after

 obtaining permission under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy

 and   Land   Reforms   Act,   in   the   name   of   Smt.   Manjeet   Kaur

 and   the   institute   was   under   the   bonafide   belief   that   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­147­

 above mentioned land could not be transferred  in the name

 of   the   institution.     However,     now   Smt.   Manjeet   Kaur   has

 filed   two   applications   dated   16.07.2018   for   transfer   of   the

 . land   in   the   name   of   the   institution   i.e.   Jupiter   College   of

 Education, Meri, Tehsil Amb, District Una and copies of such

 applications   have   been   enclosed   with   the   supplementary

 affidavit  (pages  5991­6002). 165 Thus,   in   view   of   the   aforesaid   report   of   the   VT

 coupled with the undertaking  furnished by the institution, the

 recommendations  of the SIT cannot be accepted since Manjeet

 Kaur has already moved applications seeking permission under Section   118 of   the   H.P.   Tenancy   and   Land   Reforms   Act   for

 transferring the land in the name of the institution.  We direct

 the   State   Government   to   consider   and     take   decision   on   the

 said applications as expeditiously as possible and in no event

 later than the next academic session. B a) 2: Shiksha Bharti B.Ed. College, Kotla Khurd, Una. B a) 3: Shiksha   Bharti   Institute   of   Education   and  
 Research (ETTE/D.El.Ed.), Samoor, Khurd. 166 On the basis of scrutinization of the records and

 physical verification, wrongly mentioned as Jupiter College of

 Education, Mairi, Tehsil Amb, the SIT in its progress report ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­148­

 No.5   (Pages   22­30)   has   drawn   the   following   conclusions

 against these institutes: Shiksha Bharti B.Ed. College, but stood in the name of

 Sh.   Nirmal   Thakur,   who   had   further   leased   out   the
 same   to   Shiksha   Bharti   for   a   period   of   30   years,

 whereas, as per the NCTE Regulations,  the title of the
 land was to be transferred in the name of the College.. (ii) The   total   covered   area   of   the   college   was   only

 1507.03 sq.mtrs. as against the requirement of 3500
 sq.mtrs. in respect of two units of B.Ed. (1500 + 500)
 and one unit of D.El.Ed./JBT (1500 1500 sq.mtrs.). (iii)

 No   Seminar   Room   ,   Boys   Common   room   and

 proper Girls Common Room were available. (iv) The library had a total area of about 859.11 sq.
 ft. as against a requirement of 1000 sq.ft.and that out

 of total available area of 859.11 sq.ft. for the library,
 an area of 191 sq.ft. was being used for dumping old

 furniture   and   other   materials.   Further,   there   was   a
 shortage  of books inasmuch  as only 4975 books were

 available   against   a   total   requirement   of   7600   books
 and even amongst the available books some of them

 are   not   related   to   the   course   being   taught   in   the
 College. (v) Health and Physical Education Lab and Art and
 Craft lab were not available.   The  computer lab was
 short   of   computers   as   only   six   computers   working
 against the requirement of 30 and in language lab the
 instruments were  out of order with no computer server
 with language lab software was available. ­149­ (vi) The Principal was of officiating basis for the last
 10 years but not have any Ph.D. degree and had not
 been approved by the H.P. University. Further, against
 the   requirement   of   10   pedagogy   lecturers   and   two

 . instructors,   there   was   three   Assistant   Professors   not

 approved   by   the   H.P.   University,   out   of   which,   two
 were ineligible. Only two teachers   were teaching the

 D.El.Ed.   students   and   no   supporting   staff   i.e.   Office
 Assistant, Store Keeper, Technical Assistant, Computer
 Assistant and Laboratory Attendant were available. It is accordingly prayed that directions be issued

 to the H.P. University and Council for NCTE not to allow any

 further   admissions   from   the   next   sessions   till   all   the

 deficiencies pointed out in this report are complied with by

 the institution with a view to impart quality education to the

 students in Himachal Pradesh. 168 The   institutes     initially   filed   their   response

 (pages   1442­1513)   to   the   report   of   the   SIT   wherein   it   is

 averred that at the time of starting of the institution in the

 year 2002­2003, the provision of the land on lease basis for

 30 years was available and it was only thereafter that NCTE

 issued   new  regulations   wherein   the   provision   of   taking   the

 land  on  lease  basis  for  30  years  has  been  removed  and  in

 case   of   lease   the   same   is   only   permissible   from   the

 Government. It was further averred that in the year 2009, the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­150­

 institution had applied for  permission to start M.Ed. Course

 but the same was denied on the ground that the land was not

 registered in the name of the Society, even though the same

 . was on lease basis for 30 years. Accordingly, the institution

 filed   an   application   dated   27.5.2009   before   the   Deputy

 Commissioner, District Una, H.P. to convert the lease deed

 into   a   sale   deed   and   the   matter   remained   pending

 consideration   before   the   Deputy   Commissioner   for   a   long

 time   and   finally   vide   letter   dated   2.2.2010   the   Deputy

 Commissioner   informed   the   institution   that   there   was   no

 provision   to   convert   the   lease   deed   into   sale   deed   and

 directed it to apply afresh and accordingly a fresh application

 was made to Deputy Commissioner, Una on 18.10.2011. It is

 also   averred   that   the   institution   has   already   filed   CWP

 No.4995   of   2013   against   the   decision   of   the   NCTE   not   to

 grant   the   permission   for  M.Ed.   Course   on   the   ground   that

 the land is not registered in the name of the Society, though

 the same was on lease basis for 30 years. It has further been

 averred   that   the   institution   has   already   applied   for

 permission   under Section   118 of   the   Land   Reforms   and

 Tenancy   Act,   1972,   which   is   under   process   with   the   State

 Government   and   the   institution   has   given   an   undertaking

 that immediately after getting the aforesaid permission, the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­151­

 institution   would   cancel   the   lease   deed   and   get   the   land

 registered   in   the   name   of   the   Society.   It   has   further   been

 submitted that initially the NCTE had granted permission for

 . one unit of B.Ed. course and one unit of D.El.Ed. course, but

 in the  year  2015, the authorities  increased  the  duration  of

 academic session of B.Ed. course from one year to two years. By virtue of this change, the requirement of constructed area

 became double i.e. 3000 sq.mtrs. It is averred that after the

 inspection   by   the   SIT,   the   institution   is   making   all   out

 endeavours to meet out the deficiencies and has even started

 new construction having two floors with covered area of 557

 sq.mtrs. Each, which comes to 1104 sq.mtrs. and the work

 on the second floor is in progress and would be completed

 within one month, whereas the first floor is ready for use. It

 has then been averred that shortly, the institution(s) would

 be   having   a   built   up   area   of   3500   sq.mtrs.   as   against   the

 requirement   of   3000   sq.mtrs.   and   as   regards   the   other

 deficiencies,   the   majority   of   them   have   been   removed   by

 raising new construction and at the same time, photocopier

 machine,   two   new   computers   and   certain   on­line   journals

 have already been purchased. ­152­

 169 As   regards   instructional   deficiencies,   we   have

 already   granted   three   months   time   to   the   institutions   to

 remove the same by the next academic session. . 170 The   Visiting   Team   (VT)   (Pages   3182­3187),

 pursuant to the directions passed by this Court inspected the

 aforesaid   institution(s)   on   12.6.2018   wherein   it   has   been

 submitted   that   construction   of   new   premises     is   under

 process   and   currently,   as   against   the   requirement   of   3500

 sq.mtrs.,   the   institution   has   a   built   up   area   of   only   1660

 sq.mtrs. It has also been pointed out that there was no Boys

 Common   room   and   no   facility   is   available     in   the   room

 marked as Girls Common room as there was no   toilet and

 sitting   chairs.   It   has   also   been   pointed   out   that   on­line

 journals,   CD­ROMS   are   available   in   the   library   and   the

 curriculum     lab  is   also   not  in  proper  condition.   Like  other

 institutions,   instructional   deficiencies   in   terms   of   NCTE

 regulations have also been pointed out. 171 The   institute   after   the   inspection   has   filed   the

 affidavit   ­cum­undertaking   (pages   4476­4515)   wherein

 undertaking qua Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Land

 Reforms and Tenancy Act, 1972 has been reiterated. It is also

 pointed   out   that   now     after   the   inspection   by   the   SIT,   the

 girls common room  as well as boys common room are having ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­153­

 attached   toilet   and   even   the   furniture   requirements   have

 been made good. Not only this, a space of 192 sq. ft. which

 earlier was  being used  for dumping,  has been vacated  and

 . now is usable area of the library of 1087 sq. feet.   Even the

 sitting capacity of the library has been increased to meet the

 requirement of 50 students. Not only this, the institute has

 purchased 3675 new books and now the total books available

 with the institute are 7775. The Art and Craft lab and health

 and   physical   education   lab   is   available   with   all   necessary

 equipments.   As   of   now,   33   computers   are   available   in   the

 computer lab as 22 new computers have been purchased and

 six  computers  have  been  repaired  and  are  functional while

 six  computers are  already functioning  as noticed by the SIT

 during this inspection. 172 The   curriculum   lab   is   available   and   is

 functional. The multipurpose hall  has also been constructed

 after inspection made by the SIT and is fully functional with

 all equipments. 173 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   the

 institute   has   given   undertaking   that   the   non­teaching   and

 teaching staff will   be   appointed   in   accordance   with   law

 and   regulations   and   they   shall   be   paid   as   per   these ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:30 :::HCHP ­154­

 regulations   and   EPF   shall   also   be   deducted   in   accordance

 with the Rules. 174 Thereafter,   the   institution     filed   yet   another

 . supplementary   affidavit   (Pages   5972­5990),   wherein   they

 pointed out that the construction as has been raised is likely

 to be completed in near future and, therefore, the institution

 should be granted affiliation/recognition and the courses run

 by it may be permitted to be continued. 175 Admittedly, the case of the institution for having

 the land transferred under Section 118 of the Act is pending

 consideration   before   the   State   Government,   therefore,   we

 direct   the   State   Government   to   decide   the   application   as

 expeditiously   as   possible   and   in   no   event   later   than

 commencement of the next academic session.  In the event of

 the permission being granted and if such permission is not

 accorded,   then   the   NCTE   is   directed   to   carry   out   fresh

 inspection   to   find   out   whether   the   infrastructural   and

 instructional facilities as are available to the institutes made

 to the NCTE norms or not   and take a decision accordingly. In   case   the   construction   being   raised   by   the   institution   is

 likely to be completed by the next academic session, then the

 time for the same shall be granted to these institutes and if

 any violation is found only then, further coercive steps shall ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­155­

 be   resorted   to.   Till   then   the   institutions   are   permitted   to

 carry on with the courses run by them. B a) 4:  Laureate Institute of Education and Training,

 . Bharari, Shimla. 176 The SIT in its 5th  progress report (pages 50­55),

 has categorically concluded that this institute meets with the

 requirements   of   ISO­9001:2008   which   is   valid     upto

 3.12.2018 and further the institute has also been accredited

 by CGPA with a score of 2.33 on 4 point scale at 'B' grade

 with validity upto 4.7.2017. Lastly, it was averred that during

 the   inspection,   the   institute   appeared   to   be   in   satisfactory

 condition,   even   though   certain   minor   discrepancies   have

 been pointed out in the earlier part of the report, however,

 the institute in its reply (pages 782­794) has controverted  all

 these shortcomings as pointed out by the SIT. However, we

 need not refer to the reply in view of the report of the V.T.

 (pages   3029­3031)   wherein   no   deficiencies   insofar   as

 infrastructure   is   concerned,   have   been   found.   However,   as

 regards   the   instructional   facilities,   time   has   already   been

 granted to these institutions to remove those deficiencies by

 the next academic session. 177 Noticeably,   there   is   another   inspection   report

 available on record that was submitted in the open court on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­156­

 13.7.2018   wherein   again   no   substantial   deficiencies   have

 been pointed out. As there are no deficiencies, therefore, this

 institute is permitted to run the courses. . B a) 5:  Sai   Saraswati   Institute   of   Teachers  
 Education, Karechi, Sangti, Shimla. 178 The SIT in its progress report No.5 (Pages 56­61)

 on the basis of the physical verification and on the basis of

 the   record,   has   concluded   that   the   institute   lacks   in   both

 infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities.   The   basic

 requirements  for B.Ed. course as laid down in NCTE norms

 of   2014,   have   not   been   met.   The   building   is   still   under

 construction.   The   equipments   in   the   various     labs   were

 totally   insufficient,   old   and   obsolete     and   deserves   to   be

 weeded out. Even the approach road was not available and

 the kuccha path leading to the college   was dangerous. The

 institute   was   not   fit   enough   to   run   even   one   unit   of   50

 students   of   B.Ed.   course.   It   was   accordingly   prayed   that

 since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and

 instructional   areas,   therefore,   directions   be   issued   to

 NCTE/HPU   not   to   allow   any   further   admissions   to   B.Ed. course till the bare minimum norms/standards laid down by the NCTE in the year 2014 to run one unit of B.Ed. course,

 are fulfilled. ­157­

 179 The institution initially filed its response to the

 observations   of   the   SIT   (pages   1705­1748)   wherein   it   is

 pointed   out   that   it   is   Sai   Saraswati   Institute   for   Teacher

 . Education (B.Ed. College), who is owner of the land after deed

 of   rectification   having   been   duly   registered   with   the   Sub

 Registrar, Shimla (Rural) under registration No.13400/2010

 dated 21.7.2010. It is further pointed out that as regards the

 infrastructural   facilities,   the   institute   has   built   up   area   of

 1559.32   sq.mtrs.   The   institute   has   two   buildings   but   the

 inspection   team   measured   and   took   into   consideration   the

 area of only one building. Thus, the objection of built up area

 is not tenable. 180 As   regards   the   other   deficiencies,   it   is   pointed

 out   that   the   institute   is   having   proper   furniture   in   the

 seminar   room.   Its   multipurpose   hall   is   in   accordance   with

 the norms of NCTE and it is equipped with   furniture, dais

 and public address system. The answering institute has been

 allowed admission of one intake of students which is for 50

 students only and 2000 sq.ft. is requirement for two intake

 i.e. 100 students, whereas for one intake i.e. 50 students at a

 time,   the   requirement   of   multipurpose   hall   is   only   1000

 sq.feet. ­158­

 181 As   regards   the   deficiencies     of   photocopier,

 computer,   CD­ROMS,   NCTE   and   international   journal,   the

 same are available.   The Art and craft lab are well equipped

 . and now even a proper road  has been constructed upto the

 institute. 182 As  for  the   instructional   facilities,  obviously  the

 same exist, but like other institutions, this institute is also

 directed to remove the same by the next academic session or

 else   consequences   shall   follow.   The   institute   in   question,

 pursuant to the orders passed by this Court on 13.6.2018,

 was   inspected   by   the   V.T.   (Pages   3032­3034)   and   no

 instructional deficiencies  have been found, rather it is found

 that the college has made sincere effort to fulfill NCTE norms

 such as improvement in number of teaching faculty, library

 resources,   curriculum   resource,   music   and   drama   and

 INTERNET facility. Observation has also been made that at

 the time of interaction with the students, it was found that

 the class room instructions and the use of library were very

 satisfactory. 183 We also noticed that after the report of the V.T.,

 as aforesaid, the institution has itself filed an affidavit by way

 of undertaking, to the effect that intake of 50 students i.e. of

 one unit for 2 years B.Ed. course will be continued in future ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­159­

 from   the   present   building   and   infrastructure   and

 deficiencies, if any, shall be removed, if so directed by this

 Court. . 184 However,   as   observed   above,   no   substantial

 deficiencies have been found with regard to this institution

 running   the   course   of   B.Ed.,   therefore,   it   is   permitted   to

 continue,   however,   subject   to   its   removing   all   the

 instructional deficiencies by the next academic session. B a) 6: Indian Institute  (B.Ed. and M.Ed.) Hari Devi, 
 Gahanatti, Shimla. B a) 7:  Indian   Institute   of   (D.El.Ed.)   Hari   Devi,  

 Gahanatti, Shimla. 185 The SIT in its 5th  progress report (pages 62­68)

 after going  through the records and inspecting the institute,

 has   come   to   the   conclusion   that   the   institute   had   been

 inspected in the year 2012 by the National Assessment and

 Accreditation Council and accredited CGPA of 2.54 on four

 point scale at 'B' Grade, valid upto 20.4.2017. However, the

 institute totally lacks in instructional area inasmuch as there

 are   only   9   faculty   members   in   position   as   against   the

 requirement of 34 for D.El.Ed., B.Ed. and M.Ed. Courses as

 per  the  NCTE  regulation.  These   faculty  members   are  being

 shared for all the aforesaid courses. Accordingly,   it   has

 been   prayed   that   since   the   institution   totally   lacks   in   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­160­

 instructional areas, directions be issued to NCTE/HPU not to

 allow  any  further admissions  to  D.El.Ed.,  B.Ed.  and  M.Ed. Courses till the bare minimum norms/standards laid down

 . by the NCTE in the year 2014 on the instructional side to run

 the aforesaid three courses are fulfilled. 186 The   report   submitted   by   the   SIT   has   been

 contested by the institution by filing reply (Pages 1024­1091),

 wherein   it   has   been   pointed   out   that   the   institution   is

 running  B.Ed. course with two units of 50 students each as

 well as JBT course with 50 students and M.Ed. Course with

 35   students.   The   permission   to   run   these   courses   was

 allowed at the time when the NCTE (Norms and Standards

 for Teacher Education Programme),2001 were prevalent and

 in terms thereof, there was no requirement of specific land

 area   or   built   up   area   in   the   said   norms   and   only   the

 requirement was that there must be provision for adequate

 number   of   class   rooms,   hall,library   space   for   conducting

 instructional activities  for approving intake of 100 students,

 separate   rooms   for   Principal,   faculty   members,   office   for

 administrative   staff   and   stores.   Besides,   the   size   of   all   the

 instructional spaces were   prescribed to be not less than 10

 sq. feet per student. Library was required to be equipped with

 text and reference books, encyclopedia and journal etc.,  The ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­161­

 playground   for   games   facilities   was   required.   However,   the

 alternate   arrangements   could   be   made   with   the   attached

 school/college and in case of scarcity of space, the facilities

 . of yoga, indoor games   could be provided. The building and

 outdoor space was required to be provided  in the land owned

 by the management either on ownership basis or long term

 lease. However, to begin with, the institute could provide this

 facility in temporary premises for a maximum period of three

 years during which time the institute was to shift to its  own

 permanent   location.     The   institute   was   required   to   provide

 Science laboratory  in either of the institution or attachment

 with   the   school/college   with   the   requisite     apparatus.   The

 Psychology lab  with  certain   prescribed  texts,  hardware  and

 software   facilities   as   well   as   technology   lab   were   also

 prescribed.     It   is   thereafter   that   the   norms   of   NCTE   were

 amended   and   notified   in   the   year   2014   wherein   the

 requirement of the land is 3000 sq. mtrs. for B.Ed. and JBT

 courses and constructed area was to be 3000 sq.mtrs. and

 for M.Ed. course further 500   meters.  However,  the size of

 any   particular   room   was   not   specified   except   for   some

 specified   activity.   It   was   averred   that   the   institution

 possesses all the essential facilities for B.Ed., JBT and M.Ed. courses.   Lastly,   it   is   averred   that   all   the   deficiencies   as ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:31 :::HCHP ­162­

 pointed out by the SIT have been rectified and reported to the

 Member   Secretary,   NCTE   vide   letter   dated   25.11.2016   and

 the   latter   has   accepted   the   said   affidavit   and   has   issued

 . directions   qua   admitting   the   students   in   B.E.   course   for

 academic sessions 2017­2019. 187 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can be now taken in view of

 the   judgment   rendered   by   this   Court   in   CWP   No.   1102   of

 2018, titled H.P. Private  B.Ed.  Colleges Welfare  Association

 vs.   National   Council for   Teacher   Education   and   others,

 decided on 14.9.2018. 188 Apart   from   above,   it   would   be   noticed   that

 pursuant to the directions passed by this Court, the institute

 was inspected by the V.T. on 12.6.2018 and no substantial

 infrastructural   deficiencies   have   been   found,   rather   all

 deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by   the   SIT   have   been   removed. Therefore,   the   institute   is   permitted   to   run   the   courses

 subject to its removing the instructional deficiencies   by the

 next academic session. ­163­

 B a) 8:  Shanti   Alya   Institute   of   Education   and  
 Training of B.Ed., Rampur Keonthal, Tehsil  
 and District, Shimla. B a) 9:  Shanti   Alya   Institute   of   Education   and  

 . Training   of   D.El.Ed.,   Rampur   Keonthal,  

 Tehsil and District, Shimla. 189 The SIT in its 5th  progress report (pages 69­74)

 after physical inspection and verification of the records has

 come to the following conclusions: 190 It  has   been   prayed   that   the   deficiencies   in   the

 infrastructural   and   instructional   areas   be   brought   to   the

 notice of NCTE and the same be directed to be removed. 191 The institute in response to the report of the SIT

 has filed the reply (pages 722­ 738), however, we need not to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:32 :::HCHP ­164­

 refer to the same as admittedly, thereafter the institute was

 inspected   by   the   V.T.   (pages   3038­3039)   pursuant   to   the

 directions passed by this Court on 13.6.2018 and the only

 . deficiency   that   was   pointed   out   was   that   the   multipurpose

 hall was having G.I. sheet roof fixed to iron angles. However,

 we really do not find the objection raised by the V.T. to be

 sustainable   in   view   of   the   undertaking   given   by   the

 institution   whereby   it   has   undertaken   to   provide   a   sound

 proof   roof   in   the   multi   storeyed   building,   for   which   the

 expenditure   stands   approved.   Now   as   regards   the

 instructional   deficiencies,   this   institute,   like   other

 institution(s)   is   directed   to   remove   the   same   by   the   next

 academic session or else consequences shall follow. B a)10:  H.P.   College   of   Education,   Airport   Road,  
 Mauja Majid, Totu, Shimla. 192 The SIT  in its 5th progress report (pages 84­89),

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 Institute came, to the following conclusions: 193 It is accordingly prayed that the deficiencies in

 the infrastructural and instructional  areas be brought to the

 notice of the NCTE so as to direct the Institute   to comply

 with the same. 194 The Institute has filed its response to the report

 submitted by the SIT (pages 804­814), wherein, it is pointed

 out   that   the   SIT   assisted   by   the   staff   of   HP   PWD   had

 inspected the premises of the Institute and found practically

 no deficiencies. It has further been averred that even though

 the   SIT   had   noted   that   at   the   time   of   inception   of   the

 Institute, as against requirement of 1500 sq.mts, was having

 a covered area of 1221.21 sq. mts., however, now at the time

 of inspection of the SIT, total  built up area was found to be

 2508 sq.mts. and in addition thereto, the Institute is having ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:32 :::HCHP ­166­

 fully   equipped     multipurpose     hall   with   an   area   of   3730

 sq.feet,   which   was   earlier   being   shared   by   MBA/MCA

 students,   but the said courses have been closed down and

 . now,   the   same     shall   be   used   specifically   only   for   B.Ed. Courses.   As   regards   the   approach   road,   the   Institute   has

 already a jeepable road, that has now been constructed. 195 Like   other   Institutes,   even   this   Institute   was

 inspected   by   the   VT   on   11.6.2018   pursuant   to   directions

 passed   by   this   Court   and   no   substantial   deficiencies   have

 been   found   insofar   as   the   infrastructural   facilities   are

 concerned.   It   has   been   specifically   observed   that   the

 construction   of   V.C.   road   to   college   building   is   in   progress

 and   is   almost   completed.     It   has   further   been   pointed   out

 that   MBA/MCA   courses   have   been   discontinued,   therefore,

 multipurpose hall of 3730 sq. ft. is exclusively being used for

 B.Ed. course. That apart, the total built up area of 2508 sq.

 mts. is being used for B.Ed. course only. 196 At this stage, we may notice that this Court vide

 order   dated   19.6.2018,   had   directed   the   Educational

 Institutes   to   file   compliance   affidavits   within   three   days   so

 that   the   cases   could   be   considered,   however,   compliance

 affidavits with regard to various shortcomings as pointed out

 by the SIT and VT and the Institute has now filed its affidavit ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:32 :::HCHP ­167­

 (pages 3591­3603),wherein it has been pointed out that the

 steps with regard to removal of the instructional deficiencies

 have been taken. Now, the time has already been granted to

 . all the Institutes to remove instructional deficiencies by the

 next   academic   session.   We   need   not   refer   to   this   affidavit,

 however,   it   is   made   clear   that   in   case   the   instructional

 efficiencies are not removed by the aforesaid date, then the

 consequence   as   per   law   shall   follow.   However,     since   the

 Institute has more than requisite  infrastructural facilities, it

 is permitted to run the courses subject to its removing   the

 instructional deficiencies within the stipulated period. B a) 11: Hamirpur   College   of   Education   for   B.Ed.,  
 Ward No.10, Hamirpur. B a) 12:  Hamirpur   College   of   Education   for  
 D.El.Ed.,Ward No.10, Hamirpur. 197 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.5   (pages   95­ 100)   after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of

 theses   Institutes,   concluded   that   the   Institutes   lack   in

 infrastructure as well as land to conduct B.Ed. and D.El.Ed

 courses   and   there   is   acute   shortage   of   logistic   support,

 faculty   and   staff   at   every   level.   It   has   been   prayed   that

 directions be issued to NCTE not to allow  further admissions

 to both the courses till minimum requirements are fulfilled ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:32 :::HCHP ­168­

 by the Institutes as per the norms laid down by the NCTE in

 the year 2014. 198 These   Institutes   have   filed   reply   to   the   report

 . filed by the SIT (pages 1161­1175), wherein it is pointed out

 that the Institutes have been running  B.Ed. Course with two

 units of 50 students as well as JBT course with 50 students

 as intake.   The recognition   to B.Ed. Course was granted by

 the NCTE for intake of 100 seats vide order dated 16.7.2003

 when the NCTE (Norms and Standards for Teacher Education

 Programme),   2001  were  prevalent.    As  per said  norms  and

 standards,   the   infrastructural   facilities   were   provided   in

 paras 7 and 8 of the norms. 199 The discrepancies as pointed out by the SIT have

 been rectified  and reported  to the Member Secretary NCTE

 and   the   latter   has   accepted   the   affidavit   and   permitted

 admission of students in B.Ed. course for academic session

 2017­19. 200 The   VT,   pursuant   to   direction   issued   by   this

 Court, had inspected theses Institutes on 12.6.2018, wherein

 apart from pointing out the instructional deficiencies, it has

 been   found   that   theses   Institutions   have   built   up   area   of

 3111.04 sq. mts. as against requirement of 3500 sq. mts. As

 per NCTE Regulations. ­169­

 201 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 . common facilities being shared can now survive in view of the

 judgment rendered by this Court in CWP No. 1102 of 2018,

 titled H.P.   Private   B.Ed.   Colleges   Welfare   Association   vs.

 National Council for Teacher Education and others, decided

 on 14.9.2018. 202 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   the

 Institutions   are   directed   to   remove   the   same   by   the   next

 academic   session   or   else   consequences   as   per   law   shall

 follow. B a) 13: Nalanda   College   of   Education,   Jhaniari,  
 Hamirpur. 203 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.5   (pages   95­ 100) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute has reported that  there were a lot of deficiencies in

 the field of infrastructural as well as instructional area and

 nothing   was   found   satisfactory   in   any   of   the   field   in   this

 Institution.   It has been prayed that directions be issued to

 the NCTE not to allow further admissions to both the courses

 i.e.   B.Ed.   D.El.Ed.   till   the   minimum   requirements   are ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:32 :::HCHP ­170­

 fulfilled by the Institute as per the norms laid down by the

 NCTE in the year 2014. 204 Like all other institutes, the VT   inspected this

 . institute also on 12.6.2018, wherein it noticed the following

 deficiencies: 205 As regards the instructional deficiencies, like the

 other institutes, this institute is directed to remove the same

 by the next academic session or else consequences as per law

 shall   follow.   However,   insofar   as   other   so­called

 infrastructural   deficiencies   are   concerned,   we   really   do   not

 find these to be deficiencies of such kind, which may prevent

 the Institute from running with the courses, however we may

 at   this   stage   notice   that   the   Institute   has   filed   an   affidavit

 (pages   4453­4466),   wherein   it   is   pointed   out   that   the

 institute   has     finished   almost   entire   work   and   only   minor

 work   remains.   As   regards   instructional   deficiencies,   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:33 :::HCHP ­171­

 institute   has   already   approached     the   H.P.   University   for

 filling up the posts of teachers and as regards EPF and pay,

 the same is now being paid through bank. . 206 The   Institute   has   thereafter   filed   another   reply

 (Pages   4967­5022)   to   the   observations   of   the   SIT   and   the

 same need not be referred to in view of the findings given by

 the   VT,   which,   as   observed   above,   has   not   noticed   any

 substantial   shortcomings.     Therefore,   the  recommendations

 of the SIT are set aside and the Institute is permitted to run

 the courses as it is running now subject to its removing the

 instructional   deficiencies   by   the   next   academic   session   or

 else consequences as per law shall follow. B a) 14: Raj Rajeshwari College of Education (B.Ed.),  
 Chorab, Bhota, Hamirpur. B a) 15:  Raj   Rajeshwari   College   of   Education  
 (D.El.Ed.), Chorab, Bhota, Hamirpur. 207 The SIT in its progress report No.5 (pages 115­ 119) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute   has   reported   that   the   Institution   appears   to   be

 satisfactory.   Few   deficiencies   were   noticed   regarding   the

 covered   area   and   shortage   of   faculty   members   only.   It   has

 been prayed that the deficiencies be  brought to the notice of

 NCTE with the direction that during next inspection attention

 be paid for rectification of the same. ­172­

 208 The Institute has filed reply to the report of the

 SIT (pages 895­930), wherein similar defence has been taken

 as has been taken by the petitioner in CWP No. 1102/2018

 . (supra)   to   the   effect   that   the   relevant   time,   when   the

 recognition   for   B.Ed.   Course   for   intake   of   100   seats   was

 granted   by   the   NCTE   to   the   Institute   vide   order   dated

 12.8.2006,   the   NCTE   (Norms   and   Standards   for   Teacher

 Education Programme), 2001 were prevalent. 209 It has been further pointed out that the Institute

 possesses   all   the   instructional   facilities   for   B.Ed.   and   JBT

 courses. Lastly, it has been averred that the discrepancies as

 has been pointed out by the SIT have been been rectified  and

 reported   to the Member Secretary NCTE and the latter has

 accepted the affidavit and permitted admission of students in

 B.Ed. course for academic session 2017­19. 210 The   VT,   pursuant   to   directions   passed   by   this

 Court, inspected the Institutes on 12.6.2018 and submitted

 its   report   (pages   3199­3200)   wherein   no   infrastructural

 deficiencies   have   been   found.   It   has   been   found   that   the

 Institutions have created additional built up area of 1455 sq.

 mts.,   but   supporting   documents   like   building   completion

 certificate,   approved   building   plan   etc.,   have   not   been ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:33 :::HCHP ­173­

 submitted,   whereas   all   other   deficiencies   as   have   been

 pointed out by the SIT are stated to have been removed. 211 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 . objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can be now taken in view of

 the   judgment   rendered   by   this   Court   in   CWP   No.   1102   of

 2018, titled H.P. Private  B.Ed.  Colleges Welfare  Association

 vs.   National   Council for   Teacher   Education   and   others,

 decided on 14.9.2018. 212 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   the

 Institute   like   the   other  Institutes   is   directed   to   remove   the

 same by the next academic session or else consequences as

 per law shall follow. 213 At this stage, we may note that these Institute

 has filed compliance affidavit wherein it is averred that the

 Institute was set up in the year 2006 for two units of B.Ed. and single unit of JBT. The total land area is 5055 sq. mts. and total built up area 2500 sq. mts. including 1130 sq. feet

 area   of   library.     The   Institute   has   enclosed   the   building

 completion certificate and details of built up area along with

 this   affidavit.     It   has   further   been   averred   that   the   library

 with   requisite   area   and   sitting   capacity   of   50%   students   , ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:33 :::HCHP ­174­

 photocopier, online journals and C.D.  Rom are available  in

 the library.   The Institute has already approached the H.P.

 University   for   instructional   deficiencies   and   has   already

 . issued advertisement for filling up the posts of teachers and

 these deficiencies would be removed shortly. The EPF will be

 created in ensuing academic session. The Institute has been

 paying salary of Rs.15600+increment to the faculty members

 at the initial start of pay scale and is now going to pay salary

 with initial start  of of Rs. 21600/­ with annual increment to

 the   approved   teaching  faculty     by  H.P.   University  from  the

 ensuing   academic   session.   Since   there   are   no   substantial

 deficiencies   noticed   by   the   VT,   therefore,   the   Institute   is

 permitted to continue with its courses subject to its removing

 the instructional deficiencies by the next academic session or

 else consequences as per law, shall follow. B a) 16: Vijay Vallabh College of Education, Nadaun,  
 Hamirpur. 214 The SIT in its progress report No.6 (pages 22­24)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has arrived at the following conclusions: 215 It has been prayed that the directions be issued

 to NCTE and H.P. University to get the various deficiencies

 . rectified   before   the   admissions   are   allowed   for   the   next

 academic session. 216 The   report   of   the   SIT   has   been   sought   to   be

 controverted  by the Institute by filing reply (pages 854­894),

 wherein similar defence has been taken as was taken by the

 petitioner   in   CWP   No.   1102/2018   (supra).   In   addition

 thereto,   it   has   been   stated   that   the   SIT   had   raised   vague

 objections against the Institute with respect to the land. 217 Like   other   Institutes,   this   Institute   was

 inspected by the VT on 11.6.2018. 218 The   recognition   was   granted   to   the   Institution

 under  the   NCTE   Regulations,   2005   followed   by  Norms   and

 Standards dated 13.1.2006 at that time under clause 8(5) of

 Regulations   2005,   the   private   lease   was   valid,   thus,   this

 deficiency   observed   by   the   SIT   is   not   as   per   the   NCTE

 Regulations, hence, it is treated as removed. 219 We are really surprised to note that a different

 stand   is   being   taken   by   the   NCTE     because   in   majority   of

 cases where the Institutes were set up prior to the norms of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:33 :::HCHP ­176­

 2014 and 2017, the infrastructural deficiencies qua land and

 built   up     have   been   specifically   raised   ,   whereas   in   the

 instant case as noticed above,   objections raised by the SIT

 . qua infrastructural not being in tune with the norms of 2014

 have been treated to be removed only   because the Institute

 had   been   set   up   when   the   NCTE   Regulations   2005   and

 norms and standards dated 13.1.2006 were in operation and

 as per clause 8(5) of Regulations 2005, the private lease was

 valid. r
 220 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can now survive in view of the

 judgment rendered by this Court in CWP No. 1102 of 2018,

 titled H.P.   Private   B.Ed.   Colleges   Welfare   Association   vs.

 National Council for Teacher Education and others, decided

 on 14.9.2018. 221 Apart   from   above,   no   other   infrastructural

 deficiency was pointed out and only instructional deficiencies

 have been pointed out, for removal of which time has already

 been granted to the Institute uptill the next academic session

 or else necessary consequences as per law shall follow. ­177­

 B a)17: Dwarikadass   Memorial   Sai   College   of  
 Education (B.Ed.), Village Killar, P.O. Jalari,  
 Tehsil Nadaun, District Hamirpur. B a) 18: Dwarikadass   Memorial   Sai   College   of  

 . Education   (D.El.Ed.),   Village   Killar,   P.O.  

 Jalari, Tehsil Nadaun, District Hamirpur. 222 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.6   dated

 30.11.2016   (pages   25­30)   after   scrutiny   of   records,   and

 physical   inspection   of   this   Institute   has   arrived   at   the

 following conclusions: 2013­15, 2014­2016, 2016­2018 and 2017­2019 session has

 commenced from last week of September 2017, however, rest

 of   the  sessions  i.e.   2008­2010,   2010­2012,  2012­2014   and

 2015­2017 had remained without allotment of any students. Further   in   the   B.Ed   course   also,   the   number   of   admission

 was decreased  in the previous session for want of allotment

 of students by the H.P. University. 225 The   Institute(s)   has   thereafter   filed   an

 application (CMP No. 4621/2018) for placing on record the

 additional material.  It has been averred that the affiliation to

 run the JBT course was granted after the judgment to this

 effect   had   been   rendered   by   this   Court   in   the   case   so

 instituted   by   the   Institute   being   CWP   No.   1144/2016,

 decided  on 28.3.2007.   The  building of  B.Ed.  and D.El.Ed. has  been constructed on one side of Khasra No.152  having

 area of  more  than  4329  sq.  mts.    that   is  being exclusively

 used   for   B.Ed./D.El.Ed.   Courses.     The   Law   course   is   in

 independent building constructed on the other side of land

 comprised in Khasra No. 147. Both the premises are separate

 and   independent.     The   seminar   room   of   B.Ed.,   which   was ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:34 :::HCHP ­179­

 earlier occasionally used by the Law Department, has been

 stopped to be used and as such there is no sharing of the

 seminar room with law course as has been pointed out by the

 . SIT.   The   same   is   the   position   with   regard   to   multipurpose

 hall   measuring   2000   sq.   feet.   The   independent   common

 rooms for boys and girls duly equipped with furniture have

 been   set   up.   The   Central   Library,   earlier   created   with

 independent and separate sections of B.Ed./JBT & Law, has

 been separated and the law section has been shifted to  its

 own independent building.. The sitting capacity of library has

 been increased   and adequate numbers of   on­line journals

 and C.D. ROMS     have been provided.     The requirement of

 curriculum   lab   has   been   met.   Likewise,   separate   block   of

 toilets for girls and boys has been constructed. 226 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court   inspected   the   Institute   on   12.6.2018   (pages   3223­

 3224), wherein it has been pointed out that the Institute(s) is

 having   area     of   only   2251.29   sq.   mts.   against     the

 requirement of 3000 sq. mts. as per the NCTE norms.   No

 other infrastructural deficiencies have been pointed out. 227 We   may   note   that   the   Institute   has   itself

 furnished an undertaking by way of an affidavit, (page 4226)

 wherein it is stated that the built up area of the Institute is ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:34 :::HCHP ­180­

 2251.29 sq. mts. and the same is a composite Institute.   It

 has further been averred that  deficiencies as pointed out by

 the   SIT   have   duly   been   removed   except   the   built   up   area,

 . however, the built up area is sufficient as per NCTE norms

 prevalent at the time of grant of recognition as well as per the

 recent   NCTE   norms,   where   sharing   is   permissible.     It   has

 been   further   averred   that   second   unit   of   B.Ed.   has   been

 sanctioned by the NCTE in favour of the Institute vide order

 dated 6.6.2015,  however, the same has not yet been run till

 further built up area is constructed. 228 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can now survive in view of the

 judgment rendered by this Court in CWP No. 1102 of 2018,

 titled H.P.   Private   B.Ed.   Colleges   Welfare   Association   vs.

 National Council for Teacher Education and others, decided

 on 14.9.2018. 229 Apart   from   above,   no   other   infrastructural

 deficiency was pointed out and only instructional deficiencies

 have been pointed out, for removal of which time has already

 been granted to the Institute uptill the next academic session

 or else necessary consequences as per law shall follow. ­181­

 B a) 19: Gurukul Bharti College  of Education, Benla  
 Brahmna, Chandpur, Distt. Bilaspur, H.P. 
  
 230 The SIT in its 6th  report, dated 30.11.2016 (pages

 . 76­81), after scrutiny of the records and physical inspection of

 the institution, has found the same to be working satisfactory,

 except that there was a shortage of faculty members and fact

 that   none   of   them   had   been   approved   by   the   HPU.   It   is

 accordingly   prayed   that   direction   be   issued   to   NCTE   to   seek 231 r to
 compliance     of   the   aforesaid   deficiencies/shortages   before

 allowing admission to the next Session i.e. 2017­18. The   institute   has   responded   to   the   report   of   the

 SIT by filing its reply (pages 1354­1361), wherein it was pointed

 out that even though there was no shortcoming pointed out by

 the  SIT,  yet the  so­called  deficiencies  and  shortcomings  have

 already been removed. 232 The   VT,   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court, has inspected this institute on 13.06.2018, wherein only

 instructional   deficiencies   have   been   found     and   for   that

 purpose   this   Court   has   already   granted   time   up   to   the   next

 academic session or else consequences as per law shall follow. Therefore,   the   institute   is   permitted   to   continue   with   the

 courses as are being undertaken by it. ­182­

 B a) 20:  Adarsh   College   of   Education,   Amarpur,  
 Ghumarwin, Bilaspur

 233 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   6,   dated

 . 30.11.2016   (pages   82   to   86)   on   the   basis   of   scrutiny   of   the

 records and physical inspection of the institution has found the

 working  of   the   institution   to   be   satisfactory.   Even   though   no

 major deficiency was found qua this institute, however, yet it

 filed its reply to the report submitted by the SIT and pointed

 stand removed. r to
 out that the shortcomings as have been pointed out by the SIT

 234 Pursuant to the order passed by this Court, the VT

 inspected   this   institution   on   13.06.2018   (pages   3216­3218),

 wherein   the   VT   found   no   infrastructural   deficiency   and   only

 found instructional deficiencies, which like in the case of other

 institutions is required to be removed by the institution before

 the   next   academic   session.   However,   we   may   note   that   the

 institution   has   filed   affidavit   (pages   4217­4219),   however,   we

 need not refer to the said affidavit since time up to   the next

 academic   session   already   stands   granted   to   this   institute   to

 remove   instructional   deficiencies.   Accordingly,   this   institution

 is permitted to run the courses as are being run by it. ­183­

 B a) 21:   Minerva   College   of   Education,   VPO   Baggi,  
 Tehsil Balh, District Mandi

 235 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   7,   dated

 . 15.03.2017 (pages 27 to 33) after scrutiny of the records and

 physical inspection of the institution, has concluded as follows: 236 It was, therefore, prayed that directions be issued

 to NCTE/HPU to get the deficiencies rectified before admission

 to the next academic sessions i.e. 2017­19. 237 The   institution   initially   controverted   the

 allegations by filing reply, wherein it was pointed out that the

 institution  had been conducting B.Ed. Course since the year,

 2007 with an intake of two units, but since the academic year

 2015,   the   institute   is   running   only   one   unit   with   an   intake

 capacity of 50 students and has sufficient infrastructure for the

 said purpose as the college was having total area of 4­5­1 bigha

 which is much more than the area required for establishing the

 B.Ed. College, which is on lease for 30 years. Whereafter, steps ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:34 :::HCHP ­184­

 were initiated by the institution for removing the instructional

 deficiencies, as have been highlighted. 238 The VT, in compliance to the directions passed by

 . this   Court,   has   inspected   the   institution   on   12.06.2018   and

 has   found   no   instructional   deficiency,   except   that   the

 ownership of the land has not been transferred in the name of

 the Society or the College till date and is under progress.  Even

 though the instructional deficiencies have been pointed out for

 which time like in the case of other institutions, is granted to

 remove the deficiencies   by the next academic session or else

 consequences as per law shall follow. 239 We may note that the institute  has subsequently

 filed   an   affidavit   (pages   4220­4222),   wherein   it   has   been

 pointed   out   that   the   institute   has   already   applied   for

 permission  under Section  118 of  the  H.P.  Tenancy and  Land

 Reforms   Act,   for   transferring   the   land   in   the   name   of   the

 institution and has also highlighted the other steps taken by it

 to remove minor deficiencies as were pointed  out by the SIT. 240 We   accordingly   direct   the   State   Government   to

 decide   the   application   moved   by   the   institution   for   grant   of

 permission   under   Section   118   of   the   HP   Tenancy   and   Land

 Reforms Act, 1972, as expeditiously as possible and in no event

 later than the next academic session to run the courses. ­185­

 B a) 23:   Gayatri   College   of   Education,   Kharota,   PO  
 Kangoo, Sundernagar, Mandi, H.P. 

 241 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   7,   dated

 . 15.03.2017 (pages 58 to 64 ) after scrutiny of the records and

 physical inspection of the institution, submitted its conclusion

 as follows:­ (i) The built up area has been found to be deficient by
 114.96 sq.mtrs. (ii) The Library and multipurpose hall were found to be
 smaller in size and other facilities were also found to be
 inadequate. (iii) The faculty members had not been approved by the

 HPU. (iv)   The   institute   gives   an   unfinished   look   and   still
 appears to be under construction. 242 Accordingly,   a   prayer   has   been   made   to   issue

 direction to NCTE and HPU to issue notice to the institute to

 get the deficiencies rectified before allowing admission for the

 academic sessions 2017­19 and to ensure that the institution

 fulfills the norms laid down by NCTE. 243 The VT,  in compliance to the directions passed by

 this Court inspected, the institution on 12.06.2018, wherein no

 infrastructural   deficiencies   and   only   instructional   deficiencies

 have   been   reported.   However,   thereafter   another   inspection

 report has been placed on record (pages 3904­3908), wherein ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:34 :::HCHP ­186­

 again   no   institutional   deficiencies   and   only   instructional

 deficiencies have been pointed out. 244 At   this   stage,   we   may   also   note   that   the

 . institution,   as   based   upon   the   aforesaid   report,   has   filed

 application being CMP No. 6718 of 2018 for placing on record

 certain   documents   which   have   been   appended   with   the

 application as R43/1 to R43/14, to prove on record that it has

 completed  brick  masonry,  plastering,  paint  and  flooring work

 and has also purchased four new computers and has even got

 repaired old computers. 245 As   noticed   above,   no   substantial   deficiency   in

 infrastructure has been found in the institution and therefore

 is permitted to continue  with the courses being run by it. B a) 23:  Baba   Kripal   Dass   College   of   Education   for  
 Women (B.Ed.), Paonta Sahib, District Sirmour, 

 H.P. 

 B a) 24:  Baba   Kripal   Dass   College   of   Education   for  

 Women   (D.El.Ed.),   Paonta   Sahib,   District  
 Sirmour, H.P. 

 246 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   7,   dated

 15.03.2017 (pages 82 to 88) after scrutiny of the records and

 physical   inspection   of   the   institution,   has   concluded   as

 follows:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:34 :::HCHP ­187­ (i) The institute lacks in built up area inasmuch as there
 is no seminar room and multipurpose hall and Library
 were found to be shorter than the laid down norms. (ii)   There   is   no   regular   principal   and   three   faculty

 . members   had   not   been   approved   by   HPU,   though

 eligible. 247 It has been prayed that since the institution lacks

 in infrastructure and instructional area, therefore, directions be

 issued   to   NCTE/HPU   not   to   allow   admission   to   academic

 248 to
 sessions 2017­18 till the deficiencies are complied with. This institution,  on the directions passed by this

 Court,   was   inspected   by   the   VT   on   13.06.2018   (pages   3128­

 3130) and found that all the infrastructural deficiencies, except

 for the following deficiencies, have been removed:­ (i) There was no seminar room. (ii) Multipurpose hall was 1366 sq. ft against a requirement
 of 2000 sq. ft. (iii)   The   Library   was   having   area   of   about   697   sq.   ft   as
 against the requirement of 1000 sq. ft. The sitting capacity of

 the Library was about 40 as against the requirement pf 50%
 student strength. 249 The   institutes   have   initially   filed   their   affidavit

 (pages   4821­4824),   however,   we   need   not   refer   to   the   said

 affidavit as fresh inspection has already been conducted by the

 VT   pursuant   to   the   direction   of   this   Court   and   the   relevant

 portion whereof already stands extracted above. ­188­

 250 The   institute   has   thereafter   filed   its   response   to

 the inspection conducted by the VT wherein it has pointed out

 that the college has spent crores of rupees for raising building

 . and is running the College by providing employment as well as

 helping the students by providing free education to the needy

 students   and   fulfilling   the   object   of   the   Trust.   It   has   been

 submitted that since the date of inception of the college (23­24

 years)   none   of   the   authorities   has   raised   any   objection   and

 have   granted   all   the   permissions   from   time   to   time   after

 carrying out the inspection and the regulations now sought to

 be   enforced,   were   not,   in   fact,   there   when   the   institute   was

 granted permission. 251 At   this   stage,   the   learned  Amicus   Curiae  have

 invited our attention to the foot note 3 & 4 appended with the

 inspection report of the VT, wherein it is stated that as against

 the   previous   built   up   area   of   1767.59   sq.mtrs   the   college   is

 extending   total   built   up   area   2962.07   and,   therefore,   the

 observation by the SIT may be treated to be removed. Likewise,

 she has invited our attention to foot note 5, wherein it has been

 observed that the seminar room is also under construction and

 the   area   needed   is   going   to   be   completed,   therefore,   the   SIT

 observation at Sl. No. 5 may be treated as removed. ­189­

 252 Likewise,   since   the   multipurpose   hall   has   been

 completed and the Library is going to be completed, therefore,

 the objections No. 6 and 7 be also treated to be removed. Thus,

 . it   is   evidently   clear   that   apart   from   the   instructional

 deficiencies   the   institute   does   not   lack   any   substantial

 infrastructural deficiencies, therefore, it is permitted to allow to

 run   the   courses   subject   to   its   removing   of   the   instructional

 deficiencies   by   the   next   academic   session,   failing   which   the

 consequences as per law shall follow. B a) 25: Shiv   Shakti   College   of   Advance   Study   in  

 Education, Shamloh, Rajgarh, District Sirmour 
 (H.P.)

 253 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   7,   dated

 15.03.2017 (pages 89 to 93) after scrutiny of the records and

 physical   inspection   of   the   institution   has   come   to   the

 conclusion that there are deficiencies in the infrastructure as

 well as instructional areas and there was no regular Principal

 and none of the faculty members had been approved so far by

 HPU   besides   large   number   of   vacancies.   It   was   prayed   that

 since the institution lacks in infrastructural and instructional

 areas   directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to   get   a   regular

 inspection   done   and   deficiencies   be   rectified   before   allowing

 admission for the next Session i.e. 2017­18. ­190­

 254 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court, inspected this institution on 11.06.2018 and it initially

 did  not point out  any substantial  deficiency in infrastructure

 . and only instructional deficiencies were pointed out. The foot

 note   under   this   report   clearly   states   that   additional

 construction work measuring 2964 sq.mtrs. is going on and is

 expected to be completed in every aspect within, a short period. 255 Thereafter,   the   VT   conducted   a   fresh   inspection

 (pages 3909­3912) which is quite  pari materia  with the earlier

 report and even the additional construction was not found to

 have been completed and it has been observed that the same is

 likely to be completed in a short period. 256 As   regards   instructional   deficiencies,   the   same

 have been pointed out, however, like in the cases of all other

 institutes,   this   institute   is   also   directed   to   remove   these

 deficiencies  by the next academic session or else consequences

 as   per   law   follow.   It   is   further   made   clear   that   within   the

 aforesaid   time,   the   institute   shall   ensure   that   the   new

 construction   being   undertaken   by   it   is   completed   within   the

 aforesaid period. ­191­

 B a) 26:  Astha   College   of   Education,   Hatkot,   PO  
 Kunihar, Tehsil Arki, District Solan, H.P.  

 257 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.   8,   dated

 . 30.06.2017   (pages   3   to   8),   after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and

 physical inspection of the institution,  has concluded that the

 College   is   in   possession   of   the   requisite   land   area,   yet   the

 building   had   been   constructed   on   land   measuring   162.85

 sq.mtrs   and   the   built   up   area   is   shown   as   1537   sq.mtrs. However, nothing exists on the remaining land measuring 3760

 sq.mtrs., which is situated at a distance of about 1 km. from

 the College building. 258 In compliance to the direction of this Court, the VT

 initially inspected the institution  on 13.06.2018 (pages 3052­

 3053)   and   did   not   find   any   deficiency   in   so   far   as   the

 infrastructure is concerned. However, instructional deficiencies

 were   pointed   out   in   the   said   report.   However,   thereafter   VT

 again   inspected   the   institution   (pages   3913­3916)   and   once

 again   did   not   find   any   deficiency   in   the   infrastructure   and

 reiterated its earlier observation. However, it appears that the

 NCTE did not agree with the report of the VT by observing that

 the Ashtha College of Education is running on a smaller plot

 and the management has initiated construction work at a big

 plot size of 3760 sq.mtrs., hence deficiency is not removed. ­192­

 259 We virtually cannot make out any head and tail of

 the objections as raised by the NCTE. 260 That apart, we find that the institution has filed

 . an affidavit to the earlier report submitted by the VT (pages

 3741­3813) wherein it is pointed out that the institution is in

 possession   of   land   measuring   3923   sq.mtrs.,   however,   the

 same was in two pieces situated at two different places at a

 distance of 1 km. from each other and the built up area is

 1537   sq.mtrs.   The   institution   is   eligible   for   single   unit   of

 B.Ed. for an intake of 50 students for which the requirement

 is   only   1500   sq.mtrs.   The   bigger   part   of   the   vacant   land

 taken   by   the   Society   was   for   the   purpose   of   curriculuar

 activities   and   the   left   out   vacant   area   was   being   used   for

 building   of   hostel   and   residence   of   staff.   The   institution

 otherwise has removed all the infrastructural deficiencies. As

 noticed above, even the VT in its report has not pointed out

 any substantial deficiency in the institution which could be

 an impediment in the running of the institution. Therefore,

 the institution is allowed to continue as before subject to its

 removing instructional deficiencies before the next academic

 session. ­193­

 B a) 27: VSS College of Education, Village Dhillo, P.O
 Sultanpur, District Solan,H.P.

 261 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.8   dated

 . 30.06.2017 (pages   25 to 30), after scrutiny of records and

 physical   inspection,   has   concluded   that   some   deficiencies

 have   been   noticed   in   the   infrastructural   and   instructional

 facilities   during   the   course   of   inspection   and   the   College

 building was also being used for conducting BBA and BCA

 courses. 262 to
 It   has   been   prayed   that   deficiencies   noticed

 during the course of inspection by the SIT be brought to the

 notice of NCTE and HPU for compliance  before the start  of

 next Academic Session by the College. 263 The VT, on the basis of the directions passed by

 this   Court,   has   initially   inspected   the   premises   on

 13.06.2018 (pages 3054­3055) wherein the it found that the

 College   Management   had   earmarked   2000   square   metres

 area   for   B.Ed.   Programme     and   remaining   912.36   square

 metres   area for BBA, BCA and residence programme.   The

 area   of   multipurpose   hall     was   found   to   be   short   and   as

 against  2000 square feet, it was found to be 1583.5 square

 metres (should be square feet). That apart,  only instructional ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:35 :::HCHP ­194­

 deficiencies  were found for removal of which, this Court has

 already granted time upto the next academic session. 264 The   VT   has   furnished   a   fresh   report   (pages

 . 3918­3921) wherein apart from   deficiencies as aforesaid, it

 has   also   been   pointed   out   that   no   online   journals   were

 available   and   seating   capacity     available   was   only   for   50

 students. 265 In   response   to   the   VT   inspection,   the   institute

 has filed its compliance affidavit (pages 4325­4447) wherein

 it has been pointed out that B.Ed Course was started in the

 year   2007   with   single   unit   of   100   intake   from   the   session

 2015­2016 double unit with intake of 50 students.  However,

 there   was   no   admission     in   the   second   unit   during   the

 session   2016­2017.     The   management   of   institution   has

 undertaken  to pay salary to the faculty  in the B.Ed Course

 @ Rs.21600/­ per month with effect from August, 2018 and

 has also undertaken to create EPF facility  for the staff of the

 College. It has further been undertaken   that the deficiency

 for   the   area   of   multipurpose   hall   will   be   met   before   the

 ensuing   Academic   Session   and   the   seating   capacity   of   the

 library has already been increased by creating 100 seats  and

 online   journals   have   been   purchased.     In   support   of   the

 aforesaid   contentions,   bills   of   furniture,   photocopier ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:35 :::HCHP ­195­

 machine, Wi­Fi System   at the library and bills of journals

 have been annexed as Annexure R/A and R/B, respectively. As   regards   instructional   deficiencies,   advertisements   have

 . been   issued   in   the   daily   newspaper   'Himachal   Dastak'   on

 02.06.2018 and 28.06.2018, respectively,   and a request for

 providing panels for constitution of Selection Committee  for

 appointment  of faculty has been made to the H.P. University

 on   27.06.2018,     as   also   supported   by   the   documents

 Annexure RC.  r
 266 The   institute   has   filed   another   compliance

 affidavit (pages 5045­5046) wherein it has been stated that

 an area of 2000 square metres  is being used independently

 for   double   unit   of   B.Ed.   Course   and   there   is   separate

 accommodation  for running   BBA and BCA Courses. Apart

 from   the   built   up   area   of   2912.36   sq.   mts.,   there   is   more

 built up area of 600 square metres which was not considered

 by the SIT and the VT of the NCTE on the ground that it was

 not   fully   furnished   at   that   time,   however,   the   same   now

 stands furnished.  The requirement of built up  area for BBA

 and   BCA   is   500+500=1000   square   metres.   The   recognition

 for BBA and BCA with 40 students  in each course was given

 to the institution in the year 2010, however the classes could

 be started only from the year 2015 for BBA and in the year ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­196­

 2016 for BCA as no students were available   before that.   It

 has thereafter been averred that  the institute  has adequate

 infrastructure for running  B.Ed. course with double unit in

 . the   infrastructure     available   for   the   purpose   and   sufficient

 separate infrastructure for BBA and BCA Courses. 267 Evidently,   the   shortcomings   as   pointed   out   by

 the   SIT   and   the   VT   in   their   reports   appear   to   have   been

 removed by the institute. Therefore, it is allowed to continue

 subject to its removing the instructional deficiencies by the

 next academic session. B a) 28: Himachal   College   of   Education,   Nalagarh,  
 Tehsil Baddi, District Solan,H.P. 

 268 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.8   dated

 30.06.2018   (pages   31   to   36)     on   the   basis   of   scrutiny   of

 records   and   physical   inspection   has   concluded   that   some

 deficiencies   were   noticed   in   the   infrastructural     as   well   as

 instructional facilities during the course of inspection by the

 SIT. 269 It   has   been   prayed   that   the   deficiencies   as

 noticed during the course of inspection by the SIT be brought

 to  the  notice    of NCTE  and  HPU  for compliance  before  the

 start of next Academic Session by the College.   It has also

 been     prayed   that   since   the   College   building   lacked     in ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­197­

 infrastructural facilities required for four basic units of B.Ed. Course, therefore,  directions be issued to NCTE and HPU to

 reduce   the sanctioned intake from four basic units   to two

 . basic units from the next Academic Session till the   College

 builds extra infrastructure as per NCTE norms. 270 In compliance to the directions   passed by this

 Court,   the   VT   inspected   the   premises   of   the   institution   on

 13.06.2018   (pages   3055   to   3058)   wherein   it   was   observed

 that   the   College   was   established   two   decades   ago   and

 functioning   since   1999,     and   is   therefore   governed   by   old

 regulations of NCTE. The NCTE 2014 regulations also exempt

 the   Colleges   which   were   established     prior   to   2014.     As

 regards the deficiency in space, it has been observed that the

 Management   has   given   an   affidavit/declaration   to   enhance

 the earmarked space for Seminar Hall with all infrastructural

 facilities.   As regards deficiency of multipurpose hall, it has

 been   observed   that   the   Management   has   submitted     an

 affidavit stating that a spacious multipurpose hall is under

 construction and nearing completion and will be put to use

 by   the   institute   before   the   commencement   of   Academic

 Session 2018­20.  The institution has also declared that the

 public   address   system,   the   dais   and   the   required

 furniture/infrastructural     facilities     were   dislocated   due   to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­198­

 white­washing   and maintenance activities, the same will be

 put   in   order     in   the   new   multipurpose   hall.     The   common

 rooms   for   girls   and   boys   were   found   to   be   in   order.     As

 . regards the deficiency in the library, it was observed that an

 affidavit/undertaking   has   been   submitted   by   the

 Management promising to bring up the library for use by the

 of   students   and   staff   by   the   commencement   of   Academic

 Session   2018­2020.   The   library   contains   total   number   of

 9135   books out of which 845 books were received from the

 donors.   The   VT   found   that   there   is   one   photocopying

 machine   in   the   ground   floor   where   the   current   library   is

 located and the second machine is under repair and given for

 service   and   the   Management   has   proposed   to   get   a   new

 photocopying   machine   with   multiple   facilities   and

 undertaking to this effect had been given by it.  Similarly, an

 undertaking   was     also   given   by   the   Management   that   the

 existing   material   and   equipments   will   be   purchased     for

 making   good   the   shortages.     No   deficiencies   in   computers

 and   INTERNET   facilities   were   found,   though   instructional

 deficiencies   were   found,   for   which   time   has   already   been

 granted   to the institute to remove the same before the next

 academic session. ­199­

 271 Another report has been furnished  by the NCTE

 (pages 3922 to 3925) wherein the NCTE on the basis of the

 report     of   the   VT   has   observed   that   the   built   up   area     of

 . 2201.96   square   metres   is   deficient  and   further  deficiencies

 on   the   basis   of   the   built   up   area,   area   of   the   library,

 multipurpose   hall   and   the   labs   lacking   material   and

 equipments have been pointed out. 272 In   response   to   the   aforesaid   inspection,     the

 institution   has   filed     its   affidavit   (pages   4227   to   4231)

 wherein it is stated that the College was established in the

 year 1999 with intake capacity   of 120 students.   In 2002,

 the College was permitted to have two units (of 100 students

 each) of B.Ed. Classes i.e. intake capacity of 200 students. It

 was on coming into force the  2014 regulations that the basic

 unit   was   changed   from     strength   of   100   students   to   50

 students   and   the   duration   of   B.Ed.   Course   was   increased

 from one year to two years.   Consequently, the College was

 sanctioned   four   units     of   50   students   each   i.e.   intake

 capacity   of 200 students in 2015.   It is averred that since

 the College was established in the year 1999, therefore, it is

 entitled to the exemption in terms of Regulation 6 .1 of 2014

 Regulations. The institute has thereafter given details of the

 total land and built up area available with the institution.  It ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­200­

 has been averred that about 1500 square metres  more area

 is proposed to be constructed during the next Academic Year,

 out   of   which     building   plan   for   1067   square   metres     has

 . already   been   approved   by   the   Baddi­Barotiwala­Nalagarh

 Development Authority (BBNDA). Approval for building plan

 for approximately 500 square metres has been submitted and

 is   awaiting   approval.     Thereafter,     steps   taken   towards

 removing of deficiencies in instructional facilities have been

 detailed.  However, we need not to refer the same as we have

 already granted time to remove the instructional deficiencies

 by the next academic session. 273 Evidently,   the   institute   is   running  the   Courses

 in   question   since   1999   when   the   old   regulations   were

 applicable, but nonetheless it has taken steps for increasing

 infrastructure, therefore, we see no reason why the institute

 should   not   continue   to   run     its   courses.   However,   it   is

 clarified that the institute  shall remove all the instructional

 deficiencies   by   the   next   academic   session   and   as   regards

 institutional   deficiencies,   the   same   be   removed   within   one

 year from today. ­201­

 B a) 29: Jagriti   Teacher   Training   College   (B.Ed.)  
 Devdhar, Sadar, Mandi. B a) 30: Jagriti   Teacher   Training   College   (D.EI.Ed.)  
 Devdhar, Sadar, Mandi. . 274 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report   No.8   dated

 30.06.2017 (pages 119 to 127) after scrutiny of records and

 physical   verification   has   found   acute   shortage   of   teaching

 staff   as   also   the   institute   lacking   in   logistic   support   and

 prayer has accordingly been made to issue directions to the

 NCTE   and   HPU   along   with   H.P.   Board   of   Secondary

 Education not to grant further approval and affiliation till the

 instructional/infrastructural   deficiencies   are   complied   with

 by the institute. 275 In   compliance   to   the   directions   passed   by   this

 Court,     the   VT   has   submitted   two   reports   based   upon   its

 inspection   conducted   on   12.06.2018.   Its   first   report   is

 available   (at   pages   3109­3110)   wherein   no   infrastructural

 deficiencies   have   been   found   out   and   as   regards   acute

 shortage   of   teaching   staff   and   the   institute   lacking   logistic

 support, it has been   observed that the institute is trying to

 remove such deficiencies.  In the footnote appended with the

 report,   it   has   been   stated   that   according   to   the   building

 completion certificate, the institute is having 3717.42 square ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­202­

 metres   built   up   area   which   is   more   than   sufficient   for  the

 functioning   of two  units of  B.Ed. and one unit of D.El.Ed

 Course.    The  shortcoming of  six  computers  out of 25 have

 . been   removed   as   the   institute   has   purchased   six   more

 computers.   In   addition   thereto,   the   institute   has   also

 purchased   furniture,   speaker   and   teacher   stand   has   been

 arranged in the multipurpose hall by the institution. 276 Thereafter, another report is available on record

 (pages 3926 to 3929), wherein no infrastructural deficiencies,

 however, instructional deficiencies have been pointed out for

 which,   time,   like   other   institutions   is   granted   to   these

 institutions   for   removing   the   same   by   the   next   academic

 session or else consequences as per law shall follow. B a) 31: Lord   Buddha   College   of   Education,   Upper  

 Bhambla, Tehsil Baldwara, Mandi, (HP). 277 The SIT in its Progress Report No.8 (pages 128 to 135) has after inspection and scrutiny of the records, pointed

 out that the institute was functioning from new premises and

 there are minor deficiencies in its functioning.  The institute

 has controverted  the discrepancies as pointed out by the SIT

 in   its   affidavit   (pages   795­803).   On   the   directions   of   the

 Court,   the   VT   of   the   NCTE,   during   its   inspection   dated

 11.06.2018   found,   no   deficiency   in   the   running   of   this ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:36 :::HCHP ­203­

 institution and the NCTE thereafter in its report (pages 3936)

 has pointed out that the approval letter  of the affiliating body

 with regard to approval of the faculty, except Principal, is not

 . attached   with   the   VTR.   Therefore,   it   is   not   clear   that   the

 faculty   is   duly   approved   by   the   University   or   not.     The

 institution   has   controverted     this   allegation   by   filing   an

 affidavit (page 4215).   However, we need not to go into this

 aspect  of  the  matter   since  all  the  institutions  have  already

 been granted time up to the next academic session to remove

 instructional   deficiencies.   In   this   view   of   the   matter,   no

 further action is required to be taken in   this case and the

 institute is permitted to run the courses. B a)33.  Noble College of Education, Seog, PO Pandoh,
 Tehsil Sadar, Mandi, (HP). 278 The SIT in its Progress Report   No.8 (pages 136

 to   141)   has   concluded   that   the   institute   lacks   in

 infrastructural facilities and is, therefore, not suitable to run

 two basic units of B.Ed. Course, as the total built­up   area

 was very small as compared to the norms prescribed by the

 NCTE.  In compliance to the directions passed by this Court,

 the VT of NCTE conducted inspection of the College wherein

 the infrastructural  deficiencies as  had been  pointed  out by

 the   SIT   were   stated   to   have   been   removed   and   the   only ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:37 :::HCHP ­204­

 infrastructural deficiency that was pointed out  was that the

 Building   Completion   Certificate   (BCC)   had   not   been

 submitted by  the institute. To controvert this allegation, the

 . institute   has   filed   an   affidavit   wherein   it   is   submitted   that

 even though the institute is located in rural area, yet it has

 submitted   'BCC' to the competent authority.   Therefore, in

 this view of the matter,  no further action is required to  be

 taken in  this matter and the institute is permitted to run the

 courses.  r
 B a) 33: Rameshwari   Teacher   Training   Institute  
 (B.Ed.),  Sarabai, District Kullu. B a) 34: Rameshwari   Teacher   Training   Institute  
 (D.El.Ed.), Sarabai, District Kullu. B a) 35: Rameshwari   Teacher   Training   Institute  
 (B.P.Ed.), Sarabai, District Kullu. 279 The SIT in its Progress Report No.8 (pages   142

 to   148)   has   concluded   that   the   instructional   and

 infrastructural facilities available with the College were found

 to be sufficient for one unit of B.Ed. Course, whereas,   the

 College was running two units of B.Ed. Course and one unit

 of D.El.Ed. It was, therefore, prayed that directions be issued

 to NCTE, HPU and HPBOSE  not to allow further admissions

 in   this   college,   except   one   basic   unit   of   B.Ed   Course   (50

 students)   until   proper   infrastructure   is   set   up   and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:37 :::HCHP ­205­

 instructional facilities   as per NCTE norms are put in place

 by the College. 280 Under the orders of this Court, the institute was

 . directed to be inspected by the VT of the NCTE, who in its

 report   (page   3103)   submitted   that   the   infrastructural

 deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by   the   SIT   have   been   removed. Though   there   were   certain   instructional   deficiencies     for

 which we have already granted time up to  the next academic

 session, to be removed.   That apart,   the institute has also

 filed its affidavit   controverting therein the     findings of the

 SIT.   Further, it has been stated that the institute is having

 total built­up area of 3591.66 square metres and at the time

 of inspection by the SIT one constructed area in which earlier

 the   BCA   and   BBA   classes   were   being   run   was   not     at   all

 counted,   though   there   were   no   admissions   in   the   said

 courses,   however,   now   the     BCA   and   BBA   Courses   have

 formally been shut down  since there were no admissions in

 the said courses for the last three years and the entire built­

 up area  is now being put to use for these three educational

 courses.   Therefore,   since   there   was   no   deficiency   in   the

 infrastructural facilities, the institute is permitted to run the

 courses. However, for removing of instructional deficiencies, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:37 :::HCHP ­206­

 we   have   already   granted   time   up   to   the   next   academic

 session. B a)36: Kullu College of Education (B.Ed.), Bohgana,  

 . District Kullu, H.P.

 B a) 37: Kullu   College   of   Education   (D.El.Ed.),  
 Bohgana, District Kullu, H.P.

 281 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 149­ 158) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute has found certain infrastructural and instructional

 deficiencies   and   prayed   that   the   deficiencies   be   brought   to

 the   notice   of   AICTE/PCI/HPU   for   compliance   before   the

 commencement of next academic session. 282 The   VT,   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court visited, the Institute on 13.6.2018 (pages 3606­3649),

 and pointed out that the Institution is running two units of

 B.Ed  and  one  unit  of  D.El.Ed.  As  per BCC,   the  Institution

 has   only   2530   sq.mts.   built   up   area,   whereas   as   per   the

 Regulations,   2014,   the   total   built­up   area   required   for   the

 two units of B.Ed. is 3500 sq. mts. Hence, the deficiency  in

 terms  of  the   built  up  area  by  the  Institution   has  not  been

 removed.   Apart   from   that,   it   is   pointed   out   that   the

 Institution is lacking approval of required faculty/staff by the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:37 :::HCHP ­207­

 affiliating   body   as   per   the   provisions   of   NCTE   Regulations,

 2014. 283 It   would   be   noticed   that   one   of   the   main

 . objections   of   the   SIT   was   with   regard   to   sharing   of   the

 facilities   by   various   courses,   however,   no   objection   to

 common facilities being shared can   now survive in view of

 the   judgment   rendered   by   this   Court   in   CWP   No.   1102   of

 2018, titled H.P. Private  B.Ed.  Colleges Welfare  Association

 vs.   National   Council for   Teacher   Education   and   others,

 decided on 14.9.2018. 284 However,   as   regards   the   instructional

 deficiencies, time has already been granted to the Institution,

 like the other Institutions, to rectify the same upto the next

 academic session. B a) 38: Janak  Raj Mahajan  B.Ed. College,  Gangath,  

 Tehsil Nurpur, District, Kangra, H.P.

 285 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.9     after

 scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this Institute

 has   found   some   deficiencies   in   the   existing   infrastructural

 and   instructional   facilities     and   has   prayed   that   the

 deficiencies   be   brought   to   the   notice   of   the   NCTE   and   HP

 University for compliance by the Institution before the next

 academic session. ­208­

 286 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court visited the Institution on 13.6.2018 (pages 3065­3066),

 and found no infrastructural deficiencies and rather, specific

 . note has been appended with the report  that the deficiencies

 that   were   noticed   by   the   SIT   have   been   removed   by   the

 Institution.  It  is  further  noted  that  instructional  as  well as

 infrastructural facilities are as per the NCTE norms. 287 Another report pertaining to  this Institution  by

 the   NCTE   is   available     at   pages   3938­3940,   where   only

 instructional   deficiencies   have   been   pointed   out,   for   which

 time   has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the

 other Institutions, to rectify the same upto the next academic

 session. B a) 39: Kanta  College   of Education, VPO Chalwara,  

 Tehsil  Jawali, District Kangra, H.P.

 288 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 43­48)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute  found few deficiencies and prayed that the same be

 brought   to   the   notice   of   the   NCTE   and   HP   University   for

 compliance   by   the   Institution   before   the   next   academic

 session. ­209­

 289 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court visited the Institution on 12.6.2018 (pages 3067),  and

 no deficiencies therein were pointed out. . 290 The shortcomings as pointed out by the SIT have

 been   controverted   by   the   Institution   by   filing   an   affidavit

 (pages 1289­1310), however, we need not refer to the same in

 view of the report of the VT that was appointed by this Court

 to inspect this Institution. 291 Another   report   of   the   VT   is   available   at   pages

 3941­42, wherein only instructional deficiencies   have been

 pointed out, for which time has already been granted to the

 Institution,   like   the   other   Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same

 upto the next academic session. B a) 40: Minerva   College   of   Education,Village  

 Changrara,   Tehsil   Indora,   District   Kangra,  
 H.P.

 292 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 49­55)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has concluded that this Institution totally lacks in

 infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities.   It   has   been

 pointed out that the college building  has been shifted to the

 adjacent building without informing and getting it inspected

 from   the   NCTE.     It   has   been   prayed   that     since   this

 Institution   totally   lacks   in   infrastructural   and   instructional ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:37 :::HCHP ­210­

 facilities,   therefore,   directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HP

 University   not   to   allow   any   further   admission   in   this

 Institution till the deficiencies are removed. . 293 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court visited the Institution on 12.6.2018 (pages 3067),  and

 found   no   deficiency   insofar   as   it   relates   to   infrastructural

 facilities though certain instructional deficiencies were found. However,  thereafter,   the  VT   has   filed  another  report  (pages

 3931­3933),   wherein   it   is   pointed   out   that   the   building

 completion certificate   has not been submitted with VTR to

 establish that the built up area is 3893.81 sq. mts. as stated

 in the VTR. However, no credence can be given to this report

 as the same is based upon the observation made in the office

 while sitting in Delhi and not after physical verification.  That

 apart, the Institution has filed its affidavit (pages 4620­4745)

 which clearly proves that the Institution is having more than

 the   requisite   built   up   area.   However,   as   regards   the

 instructional deficiencies, time has already been granted to

 the Institution, like the other Institutions, to rectify the same

 upto the next academic session. ­211­

 B a) 41: Dronacharya College of Education, VPO Rait, 
 Tehsil Shahpur,District Kangra H.P.

 294 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 100­

 . 106)  after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute   noticed   some   minor   deficiencies   in   the

 infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities   and   prayed   that

 the directions be issued to the NCTE and HP University to get

 the deficiencies removed from the Institution before the start

 of next academic session. 295 to
 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court visited the Institution  (pages 3188­3191) and filed its

 report, wherein only minuscule infrastructural deficiency was

 found. As against the requirement of built up area of 3500

 sq. mts., the Institution was found to be possessing built up

 area of 3492 sq. mts., i.e. 8 sq. mts. short of the prescribed

 standard,   which   can   conveniently   be   ignored.   Apart   from

 that, no other infrastructural deficiency was pointed out. 296 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. ­212­

 B a) 42:  Sharan   College   of   Education   for   Women  
 (B.Ed. & D.El.Ed.), VPO Gurkari, Kangra, H.P.

 297 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 107­

 . 115)  after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute has concluded that the approval of the NCTE has

 been   obtained   fraudulently   as   no   building   has   been   found

 constructed   on   the   land   shown   in   the   name   of   the   society

 and   there   is   an   acute   shortage   of   infrastructural     and

 instructional facilities. On the basis of such findings, it has

 been prayed that­ 1. A criminal case be ordered to be registered either
 by CBI or State Vigilance & Anti Corruption Bureau,
 Himachal Pradesh against   H.K. Chaand and others

 for   obtaining       recognition/affiliation   from
 NCTE/HPU/HP   Board   of   School   Education   on   the

 basis of the false information/affidavits regarding the

 land     and   built   up   area   and   other   infrastructure
 available with the Society. 2. Since the  Institution lacks in infrastructure  and
 the instructional area and recognition and affiliation
 had been obtained  on the basis of misrepresentation
 and   submission   of   the   false
 information/documents/affidavits,   directions     be
 issued   to   NCTE,   HPU   and   H.P.   Board   of   School
 Education not to allow any further admission. 3. Directions   be   issued   to   Revenue   Department   of
 Government  of Himachal  Pradesh through the Chief ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:38 :::HCHP ­213­

 Secretary,   Government   of   Himachal   Pradesh,   to
 cause an  enquiry to  be conducted    as  to how  land
 was   registered   in   the   name   of   the   society   without
 obtaining permission under Section 118(2) of the H.P.

 . Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972 . 298 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   direction   of   this

 Court inspected the Institution   (pages 3072­3078) and filed

 its report, wherein no  infrastructural  deficiency was  found. In the note appended with the report,it has been specifically

 mentioned that­ (i) the land in question measuring 8684 sq.

 mts.   is   in   the   name   of   Mr.   Anshul   Saini,   Chairman   of   the

 Society; (ii) Agricultural land certificate was produced by the

 College.     In   addition   thereto,   there   were   eight   other   notes

 appended   with   the   inspection   report,   which   in   substance

 only   deal   with   the   institution   having   removed   the

 infrastructural deficiencies and made endeavours to remove

 the instructional  deficiencies. 299 The   Institution,   in   turn,     has   filed   its   affidavit

 (3229­3239),   wherein   all   the   objections   raised   by   the   SIT

 have been  controverted point  wise. 300 In addition thereto, there is another inspection

 report   available   on   record   (pages   3951­3955),   wherein   it   is

 acknowledged   that   the   jamabandi   issued   by   the   Revenue

 Department shows that the land is standing in the name of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:38 :::HCHP ­214­

 the society, even though it was pointed out that the building

 completion certificate is not there. However, later part of the

 report   can   conveniently   be   ignored   as   the   same   has   been

 . prepared in the office while sitting in Delhi, whereas the VT

 report,   in   which   these   issues   were   not   raised,   has   been

 submitted to this Court after scrutiny of records and physical

 inspection of the Institution. 301 In view of above,  the Institution is permitted to

 run its courses as are being run by it.  However, as regards

 the instructional deficiencies, time has already been granted

 to   the   Institution,   like   the   other   Institutions,   to   rectify   the

 same upto the next academic session. B a) 43: Neelam   College   of   Education,   Village  
 Jimjima,   Tehsil   Joginder,   District   Mandi,  
 H.P.

 302 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 116­ 120)   after   physical   verification   and   scrutiny   of   the   records

 concluded   that   there   were   certain   infrastructural   and

 instructional   deficiencies   and  prayed  that  the   directions   be

 issued   to   the   NCTE   and     H.P.   University   to   get   the

 deficiencies   removed   from   the   College   before   the   next

 academic session. ­215­

 303 The   findings   recorded   by   the   SIT   have   been

 controverted   by   the   institution   by   filing   detailed   affidavit

 (Pages 845­861). However, we really need not to refer to the

 . same in view of the inspection conducted by the V.T. of NCTE

 in   compliance   to   the   directions   of   this   Court.   The   V.T.

 inspected   the   institution   on   12.6.2018   and   found   no

 deficiencies   in   the   said   institution.   There   is   yet   another

 report available on record at pages 3973­3976, however, no

 credence to the same can be given as this report admittedly

 has been prepared while sitting in the office and not based

 upon the physical verification of the institute. Therefore, the

 institute is permitted to run the courses. B a) 44:  KLB   College   for   Girls   (B.Ed.),   Lohna,  
 Palampur, District Kangra, H.P.

 B a) 45:  KLB   DAV   College   for   Girls   (D.El.Ed.),  

 Palampur, District Kangra, H.P.

 304 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 121­ 136) after scrutiny of the records  found some deficiencies in

 the   infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities   and   have

 prayed   for  directions   to   the   NCTE,   H.P.University   and   H.P.

 Board   of   Secondary   Education   to   get   the   deficiencies

 removed from the College before the start of next academic

 session. ­216­

 305 This report of the SIT has been controverted by

 the   institutions   by   filing   affidavit   (Pages   1311­1314). However, we really need not to refer to the said affidavit in

 . view of the physical verification carried out by the V.T. of the

 NCTE pursuant to the directions passed by this Court. The

 V.T.   visited   the   institute     on   12.6.2018   and   found   all   the

 deficiencies as pointed out by the SIT to have been removed,

 rather   a   specific   note   has   been   appended   with   the   report

 which reads thus: r
 "VT   members   visited   -   KLB   College   of   Girls   and
 observed the following re clarification in the College

 as instructed by NCTE:­ 1)The   pre­existing   old   labs   has   been   changed   and
 established into four resource centres namely: one room added to accommodate 50 students. ­217­

 306 Two other notes have been appended with this

 inspection   report   which   deal   with   the   Health   and   physical

 resource centre as also the art and craft resource centre, as

 . already being constructed as per the NCTE norms. 307 There is another inspection report of the NCTE

 available   at   pages   3944­3945,   wherein   only   instructional

 deficiencies   have   been   pointed   out   and   removal   for   which

 time   upto   the   next   academic   session   has   already   been

 granted to all the institutions. B a)46: Gianjyoti   Institute   of   Bachelor   Education  
 (B.Ed.),   Rajol,   Tehsil   Shahpur,   District  

 Kangra. B a)47:  Gianjyoti   Institute   of   Bachelor   Education  

 (D.El.Ed.),   Rajol,   Tehsil   Shahpur,   District  
 Kangra. 308 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 92­99)

 after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   verification,   has

 concluded that the institute was being run from the premises

 which   were   not   approved   by   the   NCTE   and   even   the   land

 does not belong to the institute or the Society and was in the

 name of an individual, who is the President of the Society. The   Infrastructure   of   the   institute   was   being   shared   with

 BBA/BCA   courses   being   run   from   the   same   premises   in

 violation   of   the   norms.   It   is   further   concluded   that   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:38 :::HCHP ­218­

 institute   totally   lacks   in   infrastructural   as   well   as

 instructional   facilities   to   run   two   units   of   B.Ed.   course,

 D.El.Ed. course, BBA and BCA course. The acting Principal

 . of the college was also the Treasurer of the Society.   It was

 prayed that since the institution lacks in infrastructure  and

 the  instructional  area  and  was  being  run  from  the  present

 premises   without   prior   permission   of   NCTE,   therefore,

 directions be issued to NCTE, H.P. University and H.P.Board

 of Secondary Education not to allow any further admissions

 till   all   the   deficiencies   are   removed   and   complied   with

 including the approval of NCTE to run the institute from the

 present premises. 309 The   institutions   were   inspected   by   the   V.T.   of

 NCTE in compliance to the orders of this Court and during

 the visit on 12.6.2018 found that all the deficiencies as have

 been pointed out by the SIT to have been removed, rather a

 specific note has been appended with the report which reads

 thus: 310 In addition to this, we find another report of the

 NCTE on record at pages 3947­3949, wherein certain short­

 comings   have   been   found   in   the   report   of   V.T.,   but   no

 credence to such report can be given as these reports have

 been   prepared   at   Delhi   without   physical   verification   of   the

 record or physical inspection of the spot. Thus, the institute

 is permitted to run the courses. B b) 1: Himachal   Institute   of   Technology,   Paonta  

 Sahib, District Sirmaur

 311   Even though the SIT in its report has concluded

 that   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and   instructional

 area,   however,   we   need   not   go   into   this   question   as   the

 institution has been closed down. B b) 2:  Himachal   Institute   of   Engineering   and  
 Technology, Shahpur, Kangra

 312 The SIT in its report No. 9 (pages 72 to 78) after

 scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution   has   concluded   that   the   institution   was   not   in

 possession   of   10   acres   of   land,   yet   the   AICTE   has   granted ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­220­

 approval   to   it   in   violation   of   its   own   norms.   It   is   further

 concluded that institute lacks infrastructural and instructional

 facilities.   Moreover,   the   institute   was   found   to   be   running   5

 . years   integrated   LLB   course   as   well   as   a   course   in   Hotel

 Management (3 years course) from the same campus in utter

 violation of AICTE norms. It was prayed that since the institute

 lacks in infrastructure and instructional area and extension of

 approval had been obtained on the basis of misrepresentations

 and submission of false information, documents and affidavits,

 directions may please be issued to AICTE/HPTU not to extend

 further   approval/   affiliation   to   the   institution   till   the

 deficiencies pointed out in the inspection report were removed

 and   necessary   permission   to   conduct   5   years   integrated   LLB

 course   and   Hotel   Management   course   from   the   campus

 premises of the institute is granted by the AICTE. 313 The   institute   has   filed   its   reply   (pages   1832­

 1838)controverting the findings of the SIT and it is averred that

 at the time of establishment of the institution, it had purchased

 land to the extent of 100 kanals. It is further averred that since

 different   modes   of   measurement   in   the   State   of   Himachal

 Pradesh, it was made to understand that 100 kanals is equal to

 10 acres, however, later on it transpired that 100 kanals as per

 available measurement in the State comes out to be 9.56 acres, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­221­

 thus, there is only slight deficiency, which was not intentional. It   is   further   averred   that   AICTE   has     amended   its   norms,

 whereby the area required has now been reduced to 7.5 acres

 . as against 10 acres. The institution is having three courses in

 which   the   institute   having   five   zero   admission   courses   i.e.

 Electronics   &   Communication   Engineering,   Electrical

 Engineering,   Automobile   Engineering,   M.   Tech.­ME   &

 Electronics & Communication Engineering, which reduces the

 seats by 60x3=180 and 180x4=720, 18x2=36 and 36x2=72 by

 adding both = 792 actual seats, which are lying vacant and as

 against total  2976 sanctioned seats - 792 vacant seats = 2184,

 which reduces the area requirement. It is also averred that the

 SIT has measured only two blocks whereas one another block

 has not been measured by the SIT, which consists of six floors

 and  out of  six,  two   floors  are  absolutely complete,  which  are

 having an area of approximately 2200 sq.mts. 314 On   the   direction   of   this   Court,   the   institute   was

 got   inspected   by   Expert   Committee   and   in   its   report   No.   5

 (pages   2310­2335)   opined   that   there   were   adequate   lab

 facilities   for   five   programmes,   however,   for   Automobile   &

 Electrical Engineering and U.G. programmes, lab facilities were

 inadequate and only ramp was provided at the entrance of the

 block. ­222­

 315 However,   as   already   observed   above,   the

 Automobile   and   Electrical   Engineering   courses   have   already

 been closed down, therefore, the facilities as available with the

 . institute   are   sufficient   for   running   of   the   courses   as   are

 currently being run. Accordingly, the report submitted by the

 SIT is over­ruled and the institute is permitted to continue with

 the courses. B b)3: KLB DAV Girls College for Management, Lohna, 
 Bundla, Tehsil Palampur, Distt. Kangra. B b)4: KLB DAV Girls College for Technology, Lohna,  

 Bundla, Tehsil Palampur, Distt. Kangra. 316 The   SIT   in   its   report   (Pages   127­131,   132­136),

 after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution has noticed some deficiencies in the infrastructure

 as also instructional facilities and has prayed for directions to

 the AICTE and HP technical University to get the deficiencies

 removed   from   the   institute   before   the   start   of   next   academic

 session. 317 On direction of this Court, the Expert Committee

 of   the   NCTE   conducted   physical   verification   of   both   these

 institutes   and   as   per   the   reports   (pages   2336­2349,   2350­

 2364),   as   regards   the   College   of   Management   no   deficiency

 except   there   being   no   ramp/lift   available   for   physically ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­223­

 challenged persons were noticed. To similar effect is the report

 with   regard   to   the   institute   of   Technology.   Thus,   there   being

 practically no shortcomings, we permit the institute to continue

 . the courses which it is already running. B c) 1: Himachal Institute of Pharmacy, Rampur Ghat 
 Road, Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur. 318 The SIT in its progress Report No. 7 (pages 109­ 115),   after scrutiny  of  the   records   and  physical  inspection   of

 the   institution   has   concluded   that   there   was   no

 misrepresentation   of   facts   or   fraud   could   be   detected   on   the

 part of the institute  or its management in obtaining approval

 from AICTE or Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). However, some

 minor deficiencies were noticed during inspection. It was finally

 prayed that deficiencies noticed during the course of inspection

 may be ordered to be brought to the notice of AICTE and PCI so

 that they may ensure rectification of those deficiencies before

 extension of approval for the next academic session. 319 On   the   direction   of   this   Court,   the   institute   was

 inspected by Expert Committee (pages 2365­2381) and it was

 reported   that   (I)   actual   room   numbers   at   the   building   of   the

 institution  are not matching with the room numbers given in

 the   application,   (ii)   barrier   free   environment   is   therefore   on

 ground floor only and is under progress for the other floors, (iii) ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­224­

 sanction   plan   for   2nd  floor   was   not   shown   in   the   institution

 building. 320 Noticeably,   this   is   the   same   institute   which   is

 . running the other courses in the name of Himachal Institute

 and   has   already   closed   down   majority   of   courses,   therefore,

 there is adequate infrastructure available with this institution. Thus, the Institute is permitted to run courses as already being

 run by it.   As regards the instructional deficiencies, the same

 like,  any other  institutions  will  have  to   be  removed/complied

 with by the next academic session. B c) 2:  Himalayan   Institute   of   Pharmacy,   Kala   Amb,  
 District Sirmuar. 321 The SIT in its progress Report No. 7 (pages 116­ 123),   after scrutiny  of  the   records   and  physical  inspection   of

 the   institution   has   concluded   that   ­(i)   the   institute   lacks   in

 covered   area   and   the   premises   is   being   shared   with   other

 courses run by the Trust from the same campus, (ii) there is

 shortage of labs, other infrastructure areas are shorter in size

 and several other facilities like Seminar Room and Auditorium

 are not available separately and are being shared with the other

 courses being run from the same premises, (iii) the library and

 labs are also not upto the mark, (iv) no senior faculty members

 are available. Therefore, it is prayed that since the institution ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­225­

 lacks   in   infrastructure   and   instructional   area,   therefore,

 directions be issued to AICTE/HPTU not to permit any further

 admission   from   the   academic   Session   2017­18   till   the

 . deficiencies pointed out in the inspection report are rectified. 322 On directions of this Court, the Expert Committee

 visited   the   institute   on   05.06.2018   and   has   submitted   the

 report (pages 2382­2396), wherein it has been pointed out that (i) the infrastructure of the institute was ready and functional

 in all respects, (ii) the total land available with the trust is 25

 acres out of which 2 acres land allotted to Pharmacy, 7.5 acres

 land allotted to Engineering & Technology, 01 acre land allotted

 to   Computer   Science   and   04   acres   land   is   allotted   to

 Polytechnic. Hence, 15.5 acres of land is allotted to the above

 mentioned   institutes   is   comprised   in   the   same   piece   of   land,

 however, approved drawings and site plan was not available at

 the time of visit. 323 In   view   of   above,     the   Institution   is   permitted   to

 run its courses as are being run by it.  However, as regards the

 instructional deficiencies, time has already been granted to the

 Institution, like the other Institutions, to rectify the same upto

 the next academic session. ­226­

 B(c) 3: Vinayaka College of Pharmacy, Bohgana, P.O.  
 Garsa, Kullu. 324 The SIT in its progress Report No. 8 (pages 156­

 . 161),   after scrutiny  of  the   records   and  physical  inspection   of

 the   institution   has   concluded   that   few   infrastructural   and

 instructional   deficiencies   were   noticed   by   it   and   have   prayed

 that   these   deficiencies   may   be   brought   to   the   notice   of

 AICTE/HPTU for compliance before the commencement of next

 academic session. 325 to
 On   direction   of   this   court,   the   institute   was

 inspected   by   the   Expert   Committee,   who   in   its   report   (pages

 2397­2412 has found the following deficiencies:­ (i) approved building place was not available (ii) occupation certificate is not accepted (iii) barrier free environment and toilets for handicap are

 not available (iv)   sewerage   disposal   is   not   proper   and   Architect's
 certificate was not provided (v)   fire   safety   NOC   is   not   available   from   the   fire
 department, (vi) stock registered are not maintained,
 (vi1) digital library is not available,
 (vii1) language lab is not available, (ix)   board   room,   cafeteria   and   stationery   store   is   not
 available,   (x)   PG   courses   rooms   and   labs   are   not
 available, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:39 :::HCHP ­227­ (xi) office area, boys common room, girls common room,
 library, computer centre, examination rooms are less in
 area, (xii) the land documents are verified from photocopy as

 . only   one   land   registration   document   was   available   in

 original.   The   other   land   document   was   mortgaged   to
 PNB Sundernagar and hence, not available. (xiii)   various   area   filled   in   application   were   not
 available. 326 The   institute   has   filed   its   compliance   affidavit

 (pages   5363­5572)   wherein   it   is   pointed   out   that   the

 deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by   the   SIT   as   well   as   Expert

 Committee   of   AICTE   have   been   removed.   In   support   of   these

 averments, the building plan of the institution  duly approved

 by   the   Architect   and   Gram   Panchayat,   Garsa,   District   Kullu

 has   been   annexed   as   Annexure   R­1   (colly)   and   occupation

 certificate   has   been   annexed   as   Annexure   R­2.   It   is   further

 averred   that   barrier   free   environment   and   toilets   for

 handicapped   have   also   been   made   available.   The   sewage

 disposal   plan   has   also   been   provided   and   certificates   to   this

 effect have been annexed as Annexure R­3 (colly). Likewise, the

 Fire Safety Certificate has been appended as Annexure R­4. The

 stock register is annexed as Annexure R­5 (colly). 327 In   addition   thereto,   it   is   averred   that   the   digital

 library  has  now been  made  available  and  in  support  of  such ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:40 :::HCHP ­228­

 averments   purchase   bills   of   the   software   is   annexed   as

 Annexure   R­6.   Likewise   language   library   has   also   been

 established and bill of the software is annexed as Annexure R­7

 . (colly). The board room cafeteria and stationery store have also

 been   set   up   and   photographs   thereof   have   been   annexed   as

 Annexure   R­8   (colly).   As   regards   P.G.   classes,   it   has   been

 submitted that there are no PG classes in the institution and

 certificate to this effect has been annexed as Annexure R­9. As

 regards   office   area,   boys   common   room,   girls   common   room,

 computer   centre,   library   and   examination   room,   it   has   been

 stated   that   the   same   will   be   re­oriented   in   the   area   already

 available with the institution before the commencement of the

 ensuing academic session and certificate to this effect has been

 annexed as Annexure R­10 (colly). Certificate showing that the

 land has been pledged with the bank has been appended with

 Annexure   R­11.   As   regards   machine   room   and   instructions

 room, it is stated that the same has been duly established and

 photographs in support of this have been annexed as Annexure

 R­12 (colly). It has further been submitted that now there are

 12 labs. 328 In   addition   thereto,   more   books,   chemicals   and

 equipments   have   been   purchased   and   in   support   of   such

 averments bills  have been appended as Annexure R­13 (colly). ­229­

 329 Since, majority of deficiencies, as were pointed out

 by the Expert Committee of the AICTE have now been removed,

 therefore, we permit the institution to run its courses with the

 . clear   understanding   that   the   remaining   infrastructural

 deficiencies,   if   any,   shall   be   removed   by   the   next   academic

 session. As regards the instructional deficiencies, like any other

 institutions   time   by   the   next   academic   session   is   granted   to

 remove such deficiencies or else consequences shall follow. B c) 4: Himachal   Institute   of   Pharmaceutical  
 Education and Research, Bela, Nadaun, District

 Hamirpur. 330 The SIT in its report No. 6 (pages 61 to 65), after

 scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution   has   concluded   that   institute   on   the   face   of   it

 appears   to   be   satisfactory   and   it   is   accordingly   prayed   that

 deficiencies as noticed by the SIT may be ordered to be brought

 to  the  notice  of  AICTE,  PCI and  HPTU for compliance by the

 institute. 331 The institute has controverted the findings of the

 SIT   by   filing   affidavit   (pages   820­843),   however,   we   need   not

 deal   with   this   affidavit   in   view   of   the   institute   having   got

 inspected by this Court from the Expert Committee, who in its

 report   has   found   the   following   deficiencies   with   regard   to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:40 :::HCHP ­230­

 infrastructure; (i) library size is inadequate, (ii) machine room

 and instrument room size not adequate, (iii) tutorial room not

 available,   (iv)   computer   lab   size   inadequate   (v)   girls   common

 . room size inadequate, (vi) number of computers are less than

 the   required   i.e.   23   against   30   computers,   (vii)   language

 laboratory   not   available,   (viii)   no   student   counseling   facility, (ix)number   of   titles   and   number   of   volumes   in   library

 inadequate and (x) library management software not available. 332 The   institute   has   also   controverted   the   findings

 given by the Expert Committee by filing an compliance affidavit

 (pages 4756­4807), wherein it is pointed out that the size of the

 library  as measured  by the SIT   was  99 sqm. as  against the

 area   of   100   sqm.,   however,   the   Expert   Committee   has

 conducted the inspection and submitted the report on the basis

 of the Regulations meant for new institutions coming up for the

 sessions 2018­19. The required computer lab area which was

 150   sqm.   was   subsequently   decreased   to   75   sqm.   and   as

 against   this   the   institute   was   already   having   64   sqm.   which

 was subsequently increased to 150 sqm. 333 All   the   deficiencies   pointed   out   by   the   Expert

 Committee of the AICTE have been removed. The girls common

 room has been provided with the additional space of 20 sqm. The   Medical   Centre   has   been   set   up.   Deficiencies   in   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:40 :::HCHP ­231­

 laboratory   have   been   removed   by   setting   up   additional

 laboratory and multipurpose hall is equipped with  all needed

 accessories. . 334 In   addition   thereto,   additional   books   have   been

 purchased   and   in   support   of   such   averments,   bills   of   these

 books have been appended as Annexure ­29/12 & 29/12­B. It

 is   further   averred   that   more   books   as   per   PCI   syllabus

 purchased after the semester break is over. In addition thereto,

 4   new   computers   have   been   purchased   on   03.11.2016   (bill

 attached). A new Tablet Punching Machine has been purchased

 @ Rs.1,48,470/­. In addition thereto more instruments for lab

 have   been   purchased   on   17.03.2017   for   an   amount   of

 Rs.37,247/­.   The   labs   have   further   been   updated   on

 05.10.2016 by spending Rs.27,150/­. The subsequent updation

 was done on 29.03.2018 by spending Rs.16,840/­. Chemicals

 were   purchased   on   27.10.2017   and   30.01.2018   for     Rs. 42,439/­.   In   addition   thereto,   7   new   computers   have   been

 purchased.   The   language   laboratory   software   has   been

 purchased on 20.06.2018. The students counseling faculty has

 been appointed on 05.06.2018. The pollution certificate and fire

 certificate have been appended alongwith the affidavit. Library

 management   software   has   been   purchased   on   20.06.2018. Thus, it is evidently clear that all the shortcomings as pointed ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:40 :::HCHP ­232­

 out by the Expert Committee have been removed. Therefore, we

 grant permission to  the  institute  to  run its course subject to

 removal of the instructional deficiencies by the next academic

 . session. B c) 5: Leaurate Institute of Pharmacy, Kathog, Tehsil 
 Jawalamukhi, District Kangra

 335 The SIT in its progress Report No. 9 (pages 79­84),

 after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution   has   found   no   major   deficiency   and   accordingly

 prayed   that   no   action   is   recommended   against   the   institute

 except   increased   area   in   order   to   accommodate   all   the

 students. 336 The findings of the SIT have been controverted by

 the institute by filing affidavit (pages 1839­1844), however, we

 need not refer to the same in view of the institute having been

 inspected by the Expert Committee of the AICTE pursuant to

 direction   passed   by   this   Court.   The   Expert   Committee   in   its

 report   (pages 2428­2444) has observed that the institution is

 having adequate infrastructure as per the AICTE norms and as

 against the required area of 132 sqm. in the seminar hall the

 institution   has   provided   162   sqm.   hall   area.   In   terms   of   the

 report,   as   there   is   no   deficiency,   therefore,   the   institute   is

 permitted to continue with the courses being run by it. ­233­

 B c) 6: Himachal Pharmacy College, Manjhauli, Tehsil  
 Nalagarh, District Solan

 337 The SIT in its Report No. 10 (Pages 213­218) after

 . scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution   has   found   few   deficiencies   in   respect   of

 infrastructural facilities available with the institution and has

 prayed   that   the   deficiencies   as   noted   during   the   course   of

 inspection   be   forwarded   to   the   AICTE   for   taking   further

 necessary action in the matter. 338 The   institute   was   inspected   by   the   Expert

 Committee   of   the   AICTE   pursuant   to   the   direction     by   this

 Court and submitted its report (pages 2445­2458), wherein the

 following deficiencies have been observed: 339 We have considered the rival claims and are of the

 considered view that   the courses being currently run by   the

 Institute ought to be permitted, with a clear understanding that ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:40 :::HCHP ­234­

 the   deficiencies   in   instructional   facilities   are   removed   by   the

 next academic session.  Ordered accordingly. B d) 1: Minerva Polytechnic, Village Changrar,  Tehsil  

 . Indora, Kangra

 340 The SIT in its progress Report No. 9 (pages 56­62),

 after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   of   the

 institution   has   concluded   that   institute   totally   lacks   in

 infrastructural and instructional facilities and unfit to continue

 with   any   of   the   courses   till   the   deficiencies   are   completely

 removed by it. It has accordingly been prayed that directions be

 issued to AICTE, DTE and HPTSB, Dharamshala not to allow

 any   admission   to   this   polytechnic   till   all   the   deficiencies   are

 removed by the College management. 341 The   institute   was   got   inspected   by   the   Expert

 Committee, who in its report (pages 2459­2478) has found the

 following deficiencies with regard to infrastructure: ­235­

 342 The institute has filed compliance affidavit wherein

 it is stated that institute is imparting three years diploma in six

 streams   i.e.   Electrical,   Mechanical,   Civil,   Computer   Sciences,

 . Information   Technology,   Electrical   and   Communication

 Engineering.   However,   on   account   of   non­availability   of

 students the institute has decided to close down three diploma

 Engineering   streams   i.e.   Computer   Sciences,   Information

 Technology and Electronic & Communication Engineering and

 wants   to   continue   with   remaining   three   diploma   courses   i.e.

 Civil, Mechanical and Electrical. Therefore, the deficiencies as

 pointed   out   by   the   SIT     or   Expert   Committee,   especially   in

 relation to computer lab, will not be applicable as the diploma

 relating to computers i.e. Computer Sciences and Information

 Technology is being closed. 343 Since the institute has decided to close down three

 of its diploma courses, we are of the considered view that the

 infrastructure as possessed by the Institute is sufficient to run

 the   remaining   three   courses   i.e.     Civil,   Mechanical   and

 Electrical. As regards the instructional deficiencies, the same,

 like   other   institutions,   will   have   to   be   removed   by   the   next

 academic   session   or   else   consequences   shall   follow. Accordingly, we permit the institute to run three courses and

 close down other three courses. ­236­

 C a)1: Shanti   College   of   Education   for   B.Ed.   and  
 M.Ed.,   Kailash   Nagar,   Nakroh,   Tehsil   Amb,  
 District Una, H.P.

 C a)2:  Shanti   College   of   Education   for   D.El.   E.D.  

 . Kailash   Nagar,   Nakroh,   Tehsil   Amb,  

 District Una, H.P.

 344 The SIT in its progress report No.5 (pages 3­15)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has drawn the following conclusions: Courses. 3. The site plans submitted by Shanti Educational

 Society to NCTE for starting B.Ed. and M.Ed. Courses
 were different  from the site plan made available to the

 SIT   at   the   time   of   inspection   on   25.4.2016.   Most   of
 these   plans   allegedly   attested/approved   by   Sh.   S.K.
 Chauhan, the then Asstt. Engineer, Municipal Council,
 Una, contained false and incorrect position regarding
 the covered area of the Institution constructed by the
 Society.   Shri   Chauhan   acted   in   an   improper   manner
 and unauthorizedly attested/approved these plans so
 as to give them the colour of official approval.   These
 pans were neither dealt nor approved in the office of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:41 :::HCHP ­237­

 Municipal   Council,Una   and   were   also   not   a   part   of
 official record of the Council since the area did not fall
 under their jurisdiction. 4. Shri   Chandan   Lal   Sharma,   Chairman,   Shanti

 . College of Education had submitted an affidavit dated

 11.7.2007 to the NCTE in which he had shown that the
 society owns a total area of 7068 sq.mts. with a built

 up   area   of   2225.76   sq.   mts.   to   start   B.Ed.   course.
 Again   on   7.10.2008,   Shri   Chandan   Lal   Sharma,
 Chairman of the college submitted another affidavit to

 NCTE   to   start   M.Ed   course   in   the   said   Institution   in
 which   the   built   up   area   for   M.Ed.   Course   had   been
 shown as 1762.94 sq.mts.. It may thus be seen that

 the total built up area to run B.Ed. and M.Ed. Courses

 had   been   claimed   as   3988.70   sq.mts.   which   is
 different  from the total built up area shown as3584.35
 sq.mts.  in the   building  plan   submitted   to  NCTE/NRC

 with  the  application  for recognition  of   D.El.Ed   course
 showed   a   total   bult   up   area   as   3584.35   sq.mts. Further, after physical measurements of the Institution
 by HP PWD officials during inspection the total built up

 area   of   the   Institution   being     used   to   run   D.El.Ed.,
 B.Ed.   and   M.Ed.   Courses   had   been   found   as   2812

 sq.mts. This would lead to a necessary inference that
 the Society misrepresented to the NCTE about the built
 up area, submitted  false plans and information with a
 view   to   obtain   recognition   to   start   B.Ed.,   M.Ed.   and
 D.El.Ed   courses.   Shri   Chandan   Lal   Sharma   also
 submitted   false   affidavits   in   this   regard   and   thus
 cheated the NCTE. 5. Serious     deficiencies     were   found   in   respect   of
 the   staff,   faculty   members   and   infrastructure ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:41 :::HCHP ­238­

 available in the Institution to run D.El.Ed., B.Ed., and
 M.Ed. Courses, which were grossly inadequate  to run
 these courses. 6. The   Management   of   the   Shanti   Educational

 . Society did not comply with the deficiencies despite the

 fact  that  the  HPU repeatedly pointed  out  the various
 deficiencies to them during their inspections. 7. It   has   also   come   to   light   that   the   said   college
 premises were earlier being used to run BBA,BCA and
 PGDCA   courses,   but   the   same   had   since   been

 discontinued. 345 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusions, it has

 been prayed that ­ 1. a criminal case be ordered to be registered either
 by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,
 Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh.Chandan   Lal   Sharma,

 Chairman/President,   Shanti   Educational   Society,
 Kailash Nagar, Nakroh, Tehsil Amb, District Una and

 others   for   obtaining   recognition/affiliation   from
 NCTE/HPU   on   the   basis   of   false

 documents/information/affidavits   regarding   the   land
 and   built   up   area   and   other   infrastructure   available

 with the society. 2. Since the Institution lacks in infrastructure  and
 the instructional   area and   recognition and affiliation
 had been obtained on the basis of misrepresentation
 and   submission   of   the   false   information/documents,
 directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to   cancel   the
 recognition   and   affiliation   of   Shanti   College   of
 Education, Kaliash Nagar, Nakroh, Tehsil Amb, Distt.
 Una, with immediate effect. ­239­

 346 The  Institution(s) initially   filed its reply (pages

 1323­1353), wherein it was averred that   initially   Mr. C.L.

 . Sharma, Chairman of the Society, had leased his own land to

 the  Shanti  College   of  Education  for 30  years   on   12.6.2006

 along   with   the   constructed   building.     The   said   lease   was

 made   on   the   basis   of   a   lease   agreement,   which   was   duly

 registered   and   thereafter   sale   agreement   was   entered   into

 between   Mr.   C.L.   Sharma   and   Shanti   College   of   Education

 and registered on 5.4.2010 and mutation was also attested

 in favour of the college. The initial lease deed was made as

 per prevailing norms of 2005 and the college applied for the

 requisite     affiliation   from   the   State   Government/NCTE/HP

 University for running   the B.Ed. College.   The construction

 of the building was commenced   in the year 2006 and was

 completed in the year 2007 and the College also commenced

 its academic session for the year 2007­2008 by conducting

 B.Ed. classes with an intake of 100 students on the basis of

 recognition   order   issued   by   the   NRC/NCTE   on   13.9.2007. The   Institution   has   made   an   investment   of   Rs.2­3   crores

 approximately.     The   Institution   had   all   infrastructural

 facilities   as   required   under   2005   norms   and   the   SIT   has

 wrongly measured only covered area and not the entire built ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:41 :::HCHP ­240­

 up   area.     As   regards   shortcomings,   the   Institution   averred

 that there were no such shortcomings. 347 We   need   not   to   refer   to   the   affidavit   as   the

 . Institution was got inspected by the VT on 12.6.2018 under

 the orders of this Court and in its report (pages 3209­3215),

 it has still found the following shortcomings: 348 In addition thereto,   it has pointed out that the

 premises were   earlier being used by the Institution to run

 BBA,   BCA   and   PGDCA   courses,   but   the   same   have   been

 discontinued. 349 The   Institution   has   filed   its   affidavit   (pages

 3656­3661) whereby it has sought to controvert the findings

 of the VT and it has been stated the  the Institution is having

 an area of 3733 sq. mts. in which three courses were being

 run. Earlier,   the Institution    was having 3584.35 sq. mts. area and thereafter, 200 sq. mts. additional area was added. Since the Institution falls in the rural area, therefore, there is

 no   requirement   of   of   any   permission   or   approval   from   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:41 :::HCHP ­241­

 M.C. and the buildings plans  duly attested by an Executive

 Engineer were submitted to the NCTE. It has been specifically

 stated   that   certain   deficiencies   have   been   exaggeratedly

 . shown by the SIT as some altercation took place between SIT

 and the then Principal of the College, otherwise, there is no

 shortcoming whatsoever, as  the entire area of  3733 sq.mts. is   dedicated   to     B.Ed.,   M.Ed.   and     D.El.Ed.   Courses.     The

 Institution has 10 classrooms. 350 In   addition   thereto,     the   Institution   has

 thereafter filed another supplementary affidavit (pages 5593­

 5599),wherein it has been averred that the Shanti College of

 Education is situated over an area measuring 7068 sq.mts. i.e. about 9.39 bighas,  whereas Shanti International  Public

 School is situated separately over an area measuring  about

 13.27   bighas.     Both   the   institutes,   i.e.     Shanti   College   of

 Education   and   Shanti   International   Public   School   not   only

 have their separate lands, but have also separate campuses

 demarcated   with   boundary   walls   and   have   different   entry

 gates, buildings, one play ground each and one common play

 ground. In support of such contentions, photographs of both

 campuses have been annexed, which  prima facie  prove that

 both these campuses are separate and since the Institution

 has already closed down some of the courses, we are of the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:41 :::HCHP ­242­

 opinion   that   the   Institution   has   requisite   infrastructural

 facilities   to   run   the   courses   and   accordingly,   report

 submitted   by   the   SIT   is   set   aside   and   the   Institution   is

 . permitted to run the courses that are currently being run by

 it. 351 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session.  r
 C a) 3:  Modern Education College, Annadale, Shimla

 352 The SIT in its progress report No.5 (pages 40­49)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has drawn the following conclusions: with the photostat machine. Sh. Jeet Singh Rana did

 not produce the original lease deed during inspection
 but   his   affidavit   dated   30.4.2007   proves   his

 knowledge   in   which   the   total   area   had   been   falsely
 shown as 2931.6 sq. mts. and built up area as 1640
 sq.   mts.   with   a   view   to   obtain   recognition/affiliation

 and   thus   the   NCTE   and   HPU   were   cheated   on   the
 basis of forged documents. 3. The dimensions   of the various class­rooms etc.

 were altered in the site plan submitted to HPU with a

 view   to   claim   extra   covered   area   to   fulfill   the   norms
 and secure affiliation from HPU and these forged site
 plans were submitted by Sh. Jeet Singh Rana. 4. The   Institution   lacked   basic   infrastructure
 required  for running B.Ed. course. 5. Sh. Jeet Singh Rana, Chairman, Modern Shiksha
 Samiti in his various affidavits submitted to NCTE had

 included his name as a faculty member by mentioning
 only   as   "Jeet   Singh"   and   it   has   been   found   during

 enquiries that Sh. J.S. Rana, Jeet Singh Rana and Jeet
 Singh,   s/o   Sh.   Shakti   Chand   are   one   and   the   same
 person.   Not   only   this,   Sh.   Rana   as   a   Chairman   of
 Selection Committee of faculty members/lecturers did
 not disclose to the other members deputed by VC HPU
 that his wife Smt. Deepti Chauhan had also appeared
 for the interview and instead the selection committee
 was   misled       by   mentioning   her   name   as   Deepti
 Chauhan, daughter of Sh. Sirmour Singh Chauhan. ­244­

 353 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusions, it has

 been prayed that: by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,

 Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh.   Jeet   Singh   Rana,
 Chairman/President,   Modern   Shiksha   Samiti,

 Annadale,   Shimla   and   others   for   obtaining
 recognition/affiliation on the basis of false and forged
 documents   regarding   the   land   area   available   to   the

 Society. The photocopies  of the lease deeds submitted
 to NCTE and HPU were valuable securities which were
 altered to suit his requirements on the basis of which

 NCTE/HPU   were   cheated.   Sh.   Jeet   Singh   Rana   also

 misrepresented   before   the   NCTE/HPU   abut   the
 availability   of   lecturers/faculty   members   by
 mentioning   his   name   as   "Jeet   Singh"   and   thus

 concealed  his  real  identity, whereas  in fact  he  could
 not have  continued as Chairman  and  Lecturer in the

 institution   simultaneously.   Sh.   J.   S.   Rana   also
 suppressed a material fact about his wife Ms. Deepti

 Chauhan   appearance   before   a   Selection   Committee
 constituted by Vice Chancellor HPU on 1.4.2011 under

 his   Chairmanship   by   giving   her   name   as   "Deepti
 Chauhan,   d/o   Sh.   Sirmour   Singh   Chauhan"   as   the
 name reflected a conflict of interest. The role played by
 the   inspecting   officials   from   time   to   time   would   be
 looked into during the course of investigation. 2. Since the Institution lacks in infrastructure  and
 the instructional   area and   recognition and affiliation
 had been obtained on the basis of misrepresentation
 and   submission   of   the   false/forged   documents, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:42 :::HCHP ­245­

 directions   may   please   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to
 cancel   the   recognition   and   affiliation   of   Modern
 Education   College,   Annadale,   Shimla   with   immediate
 effect. . 354 The report of the SIT was  initially controverted

 by   the   Institution   by   filing   reply   (pages   739­781)   that   the

 report submitted by the SIT is false and mala fide and is not

 based upon the factual and actual position as existing on the

 spot.   It has been specifically averred that the team visiting

 the Institution mis­conducted itself and has gone  beyond its

 powers and competence and wrongly sought to implicate the

 Institution.  Further that, wrong report was given with regard

 to area available with the Institution  being only 931.65 sq.

 mts.   and   to   the   effect   that   the   documents   have   been

 fabricated  in order to  wrongly increase the area to 2931.65

 sq.   mts.   that   the   built   up   area   of   the   Institution   was   only

 1151.82   sq.mts   and   that   there   was   no   seminar   room

 available in the Institution and even multi purpose hall was

 only   1503.44   sq.   feet.   It   has   been   averred   that   as   per   the

 orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the SIT was comprised

 of Sh. A.C. Verma, IPS, Sh. A.K. Malhotra, Ex. CBI Officer,

 Sh. P.C. Sharma, Ex. CBI Officer, Sh. Vijay  Kumar, Ex. CBI

 Officer and two academicians namely Sh. Ajay Kumar Mehra

 Associate   Professor   and   Dr.   Parminderjeet   Singh,   Assistant ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:42 :::HCHP ­246­

 Professor,   for the purpose of investigation to be carried out

 in   respect   of   working   and   functioning   of   B.Ed.   colleges,

 whereas the SIT which in fact conducted the inspection did

 . not comprise of the Chairman, Sh. A.C.  Verma, IPS and two

 academicians and instead there had  been 15 members who

 visited  the   Institution,   which   also     included   certain   private

 persons,   who   had   nothing   to   do   with   the

 investigation/inspection, namely, Sh. Chander Shekhar and

 Netar Singh. Before any investigation/inspection was carried

 out, Sh. Vijay Kumar and Sh. L.K. Sharma directed that fees

 of one student, Ms. Neha, who happened to be the daughter

 of   Sh.   Netar   Singh   accompanying   the   team,   be   waived   off. When the Chairman of the Institution expressed his inability

 to waive off the fees, which was to the tune of Rs. 1,40,000/­,

 the SIT took exception to the same   and instead of carrying

 out   the   investigation   started   abusing   and   threatening   the

 Institution authorities and staff present and even resorted to

 manhandling  the  persons present on the spot.  Resultantly,

 a   complaint   was   made   to   the   police   immediately   after   the

 investigation on the following day on 18.5.2016.  To pre­empt

 any police action, Sh. Chander Shekhar and Sh. Netar Singh

 also   made   a   complaint   against   the   college   authorities   on

 17.5.2016,   but   however,   withdrew   the   same   admitting   in ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:42 :::HCHP ­247­

 most unequivocal terms that they had tried to exert pressure

 through SIT. As regards the complaint made by the college,

 the same is pending investigation.  The copy of the complaint

 . and   subsequent   proceedings   have   been   annexed   with

 affidavit as Annexure RA. 355 As   regards   the   deficiencies   pointed   out   by   the

 SIT,   it   has   been   denied   that     Sh.   Jeet   Singh   Rana   during

 inspection had stated that the land measuring 2931.65 sq.

 mts. had  been  leased  to  the College by  way of single  lease

 deed executed on 21.12.2006.  As a matter of fact, two lease

 deeds of land measuring 2000 sq.mts. and 931.65 sq. mts. had   been   prepared   on   21.12.2006   and   copies   thereof   have

 been annexed as Annexure RB with the affidavit. 356 As regards the premises of the nursing college, it

 has been stated that the same   are completely different and

 the management and activities of the said college are carried

 out     in   the   said   independent   and   different   premises.     In

 support of such contentions, photographs have been annexed

 as Annexure RC. 357 As   regards   manipulation   in   the   lease   deed,the

 averments   have   been   categorically   denied   and   it   has   been

 averred that there was no need for doing so, especially when

 the   Institution has land to the extent of 2931.645 sq.mts. ­248­

 leased in its favour through two different lease deeds (supra). It  has   been   specifically  denied   that   the   application   seeking

 affiliation   of   B.Ed.   college   to   the   HP   University   was

 . accompanied by forged documents. However, as regards the

 factum   of   Sh.   Jeet   Singh   Rana   having   been   selected   as   a

 Lecturer   in   the   College   on   11.4.2011   by   a   selection

 committee constituted by the HP University and his wife Smt.

 Deepti Chauhan having been selected in the same manner,

 the same has not been denied. It is averred that there is no

 bar     for   the   Chairman   of   the   Society   being   appointed   as

 Lecturer in case he or she fulfills the requisite qualifications

 and both Sh. Jeet Singh Rana and  Ms. Deepti Chauhan are

 duly qualified and  in support thereof, their credentials have

 been   annexed   as   Annexure   RD.   It   has   been   specifically

 denied that there was conflict of interest when Smt. Deepti

 Chauhan came to be selected. 358 As   regards   other   infrastructural   deficiencies,

 detailed averments have been made to show that there is no

 infrastructural deficiency. However, we need not delve into all

 these factors any further in view of the report submitted by

 the VT in compliance to the orders of this Court, wherein  it

 has been categorically found that at present the Institution ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:42 :::HCHP ­249­

 does not lack infrastructural facilities as required for running

 B.Ed. course. 359 Even though no deficiency has been pointed out,

 . nonetheless,   the   Institution   has   filed   an   application   being

 CMP   No.6527/2018   for   placing   on   record   the   additional

 documents, wherein it has been averred that the college is

 being run by a duly registered society in the name and style

 of   Modern   Shiksha  Samiti,   which   has   been   working  in   the

 field of education    since the year 2003.   In the year 2006,

 Modern Shiksha Samiti resolved to set up a B.Ed. college at

 Shimla   and   with   this   aim,   Chairman   of   the   society   on

 21.12.2006 leased land to the extent of 931.65 sq. mts. in

 favour of the Modern Shiksha Samiti and in addition thereto,

 on the same date, i.e. 21.12.2006,   one Col. Ravinder Singh

 also leased land to the extent of 2000 sq. mts. in favour of

 the   society.   Both   these   lease   deeds   were   executed   for   the

 purpose of running B.Ed. college. Thereafter, the society vide

 application dated 28.12.2006 applied to the NCTE for grant

 of permission to run B.Ed. college and while this application

 was under consideration,  Col. Ravinder Singh on 29.6.2007

 further leased land to the extent of 2200 sq. mts. in favour of

 the   society   and   in   this   manner,   the   society   is   now   in

 possession of area measuring 5131.64 sq. mts. The approval ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:42 :::HCHP ­250­

 to run B.Ed. college was thereafter received on 13.9.2007 and

 it   is   after   receipt   of   approval   that   the   society   applied   for

 running   M.Ed.   and   D.El.Ed.   Courses.   However,   the

 . application   was   not   considered   and   rather   rejected   vide

 communication dated 6.5.2009.  A prayer has been made in

 the   application   for   permitting   the   Institution   to   place   on

 record the documents as have been mentioned above. 360 It   is   rather   unfortunate   that   instead   of

 concentrating  on the deficiencies, if any, in the Institution,

 the SIT has acted more like an detective agency and  conduct

 of its members is definitely not above   board. However, we

 need   not   to   delve   into   this   issue   any   longer   as   the

 infrastructure   available   with   the   Institution   is   much   more

 than   the   what   is   required,   therefore,   we   permit   the

 Institution to run the courses as are being run by it. 361 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. ­251­

 C a)4: Swami   Vivekanand   College   of   Education,  
 (B.Ed. and M.Ed.), Tarkwari Dungrin, Tehsil  
 Bhoranj, District Hamirpur, H.P.
 C a)5:  Swami   Vivekanand   College   of   Education,  
 (D.El.Ed.), Tarkwari Dungrin, Tehsil Bhoranj, 

 . District Hamirpur, H.P.

 362 The SIT in its progress report No.6 (pages 3­12)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has drawn the following conclusions: ­252­

 Inspection   has   established   that   the   society   has
 2369.24 sq. mts. of built up area  out of which 491.56
 sq.mts. was   being used for school being run by the
 society  from   the   same  building.   In   view   of  this,  only

 . 1877.68 sq. mts. of built up area is available for the

 various courses being run by the society. This would
 lead   to   necessary   inference   that   Sh.   Rajeev   Sharma

 misrepresented  to   the   NCTE  about   the   availability  of
 built  up  area and  furnished  false  information with a
 view to secure recognition for the various courses. Even

 the   Inspecting   teams   of   NCTE   relied   upon   the
 information   furnished   by   the   society   and   had
 mentioned the same in their inspection reports. 363 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusions, it has

 been prayed that­ 1. A   criminal   case   may   please   be   ordered   to   be

 registered   either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti
 Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh. Rajeev   Sharma,   Secretary,Swami   Vivekanand
 Educational   Society,   Shanti   Bhawan,   Ward   No.7,

 Hamirpur,   H.P.   and   others   for   obtaining
 recognition/affiliation from the NCTE/HPU on the basis

 of false information/affidavits regarding the land  and
 built   up   area   and   other   infrastructure   available   with
 the society. 2.   Since the Institution lacks in infrastructure and
 the instructional   area and   recognition and affiliation
 had been obtained on the basis of misrepresentation
 and   submission   of   the   false
 information/documents/affidavits,   directions   may
 please   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to   cancel   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­253­

 recognition   and   affiliation   of   Swami   Vivekanand
 College   of   Education,   Tarkwari,   Dungrin,   Tehsil
 Bhoranj, District Hamirpur, H.P., with immediate effect. . 364 The   Institution   initially   filed   its   reply   (pages

 1092­1147) wherein it has been averred that the Institution

 initially   started   B.Ed.   course   on   16.8.2000   with   60   seats,

 which were subsequently enhanced to   100 seats vide letter

 dated 7.7.2004 and thereafter, there was further increase of

 two   units   on   16.8.2004.   At   that   time,   NCTE   (Norms   and

 Standards   for   Teacher   Education   Programme),   Regulations

 2001   were   in   operation   and   as   per   the   said   norms   and

 standards, the infrastructural facilities as stipulated in para

 7  thereof, which only provided for adequate number of class

 rooms,   hall,   library   space   for   conducting   instructional

 activities       for approving intake of students and in addition

 thereto,  separate   rooms   for   Principal,   faculty   members,

 office for administrative staff and stores was the requirement. Besides this, the sizes of instructional spaces were prescribed

 to be not less than 10 sq. feet per student. The Library was

 required   to   be   equipped   with   text   and   reference   books,

 encyclopedia,   electric   publications   and   journals   etc.     The

 playground   for   games   was   required,   however,   alternate

 arrangements  in this behalf could be made with the attached ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­254­

 school/college and in case of scarcity of space, the facilities

 of   Yoga   and   indoor   games   could   be   provided.   The   building

 and outdoor space was required to be provided in the land

 . owned by the management  either on ownership basis or long

 term lease basis, however, to begin with, the Institution could

 provide these facilities in temporary premises for a maximum

 period of three years, during which time, the Institution was

 to shift to its own permanent location.  In para 8 of the NCTE

 norms,   further  infrastructural   facilities   were   required   to   be

 provided   as   science   laboratory   either   of   the   Institution   or

 attachment   with   the   school/college   with   the   requisite

 apparatus.  The psychology lab with certain prescribed texts,

 hardware   and   software   facilities   as   well   as   technology   lab

 were prescribed.  It has been averred that as per norms and

 standards of the NCTE,    there was no specified area of land

 or building  or any specification regarding construction  of a

 particular   accommodation   that     was   to   be   provided   in   the

 Institution and the only requirement was to provide space for

 instructional facilities of not less than 10 sq. ft. per student. 365 The   Institution   at   the   relevant   time   was   fully

 complying with the NCTE Regulations, 2001, however, these

 requirements were then superseded initially in the year 2007

 and   thereafter   in   the   year   2014,   however   as   per   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­255­

 regulations,   2014,   the   NCTE   has   exempted   the   already

 existing  Teacher Training Institution from the requirement of

 land as per the new norms.  It has been further averred that

 . after the grant of recognition by the NCTE for JBT course, the

 only academic session which has been made to run by the

 H.P. Board of School Education in the Institution as well as

 other JBT course are during the academic sessions i.e. 2007­

 2009,   2009­2011,   2011­2013,   2013­2015,   2014­2016   ,

 2016­2018 and 2017­2019.   however rest of   the academic

 sessions i.e.  2008­2010, 2010­2012, 2012­2014, 2015­2017

 have   been   ignored   to   be   run.     For   the   present   academic

 session 2017­2019, requisite number of students of JBT has

 not been allotted to the Institution because of non­availability

 of requisite number of students. 366 The   Institution   thereafter   filed   an   application

 being CMP No.4437/2018 (pages 1754­1758) for bringing on

 record   the     building   plans,   Ext.MA­1   to   show     that   the

 Institution is having total built up area of 3000 sq.mts. as is

 required for running B.Ed. and JBT courses. 367 The Institution  was inspected by the VT under

 directions of this Court and in its report (pages 3151­3153),

 the Institution has been found to be built over the land area

 measuring   3666 sq.mts. The library is stated to have been ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­256­

 shifted     to  new  place   having  sufficient  reading facilities  for

 two units  of B.Ed. and one unit of D.El.Ed.. According to the

 accession register number of books is 8855 and at present

 . there are 15 journals and even order for subscription of on­

 line   journals   stands   placed.   Deficiencies   in   psychology   lab,

 life   science   lab,   social   science   lab   have   been   removed,

 whereas deficiencies in ET lab have been partially removed. It was found that the M.Ed. course was not running in the

 Institution and the Institution was having adequate facilities

 to run two units of B.Ed. and one unit of D.El.Ed. Courses,

 upto the mark. 368 Another   inspection   report   is   found   on   record,

 which  is available at pages 3218­3222, however, the  NCTE

 has   observed   that     even   though   as   per   the   VT   report,   the

 Institution has enhanced built up area of 3571.9 sq. mts. ,

 but   no   proof   in   support   thereof   like     building   completion

 certificate etc. has been submitted. That apart, instructional

 deficiencies   have   been   pointed   out,   for   which     time   has

 already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session.   As regards infrastructural deficiencies,   obviously,

 subsequent report submitted by the NCTE, which has been

 prepared in the office while sitting   in Delhi is not based on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­257­

 the physical verification and, therefore, no credence can be

 given to it. 369 In addition to above, we find that the Institution

 . has   in fact filed its compliance affidavit (pages 4440­4452)

 and   a   perusal   thereof   coupled   with   the   supporting

 documents,   prima   facie   proves   that   there   is   no

 infrastructural   deficiency   in   the   Institution.     In   addition

 thereto, we find another affidavit filed by the Institution (page

 5838),wherein   it   has   been   specifically   averred   that   the

 building of the Institution stands constructed over the land

 measuring   3666.2   sq.mts.   out   of   which     three   blocks   of

 multi­storeyed   buildings   have   been   constructed     over   1348

 sq.mts. land area and rest of the land area measuring 2318.2

 sq.   mts.   is   for   the   purpose   of   playground   and   other

 curriculuar activities in the Institution. 370 We are satisfied that no action is required to be

 taken on the basis of report of the SIT in view of the fact that

 the Institution satisfies the NCTE norms and therefore, while

 setting aside the report of the SIT, we permit this institution

 to run its courses. 371 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­258­

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. C a) 6: Vaid   Shankar   Lal   Memorial   College   of  

 . Education (B.Ed. & M.Ed.), VPO Chandi, Teh. Kasauli, Solan. C a) 7:  Vaid   Shankar   Lal   Memorial   College   of  

 Education   (D.El.Ed.),   VPO   Chandi,   Teh.  
 Kasauli, Solan. 372 The SIT in its Progress Report No.8 (pages 9­17)

 has   after   inspection   and   scrutiny   of   records   come   to   the

 following conclusions:­

 "(i) Though a lease deed has been executed by Suresh

 Chander Sharma in favour of  Devbhoomi Development
 Society, Chandi, on 20.05.2006, but no mutation   had
 been done in the revenue records either in the name of

 the Society or the  College. (ii) The built­up   area for all courses available is 2262

 square metres, whereas, in different affidavits, it has
 been shown 2500­3000 square metres with a view to

 obtain recognition. It has accordingly been prayed  that a criminal case be
 ordered to be registered either by the CBI or the State
 Vigilance   and   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal
 Pradesh   against   Shri   Suresh   Chander   Sharma,   the
 then President of the Society, Chander Mohan  Sharma,
 Secretary,   of   the   Society   and   others   for   obtaining
 affiliation and recognition from NCTE/HPU on the basis
 of false information/affidavits regarding the land and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­259­

 the   built­up   area   and   other   infrastructure   available
 with the society. Since,   the   institute   lacks   in   infrastructural   and
 instructional  area  and  recognition  and  affiliation had

 . been obtained on the basis of misrepresentations and

 submission of false information/documents/affidavits,
 directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to   cancel     the

 recognition and affiliation  of the institute." 373 The VT, in compliance to the directions of this

 Court, conducted physical inspection  and verification of the

 records   and   has   submitted   its   report   (pages   3059­3063)

 wherein   it   has   been   found   that   all   the   infrastructural

 deficiencies   as   pointed   out   by   the   SIT   have   infact   been

 removed   and   as   regards   the   lease,   request/appeal     has

 already been filed by the Society to get the mutation  entered

 in  the   revenue   records   and  the   Naib   Tehsildar  has  already

 initiated   action   to   incorporate   the   same   in   the   revenue

 records. 374 We find another report of the NCTE based upon

 VT inspection (pages 3978­3986) wherein the NCTE officials

 while sitting in their office at Delhi have made observations

 regarding   the   deficiency   in   the   built   up   area   and   it   is

 mentioned     that   as   against   requirement   of   2500   square

 metres     for   B.Ed.   and   D.El.Ed.,   the   institution   was   having

 only 2262.27 square metres.  Obviously, no credence can be ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:43 :::HCHP ­260­

 given   to   this   report   as   it   is   not   based   upon   physical

 inspection.  In addition to that, we find that the institute has

 filed its compliance affidavit (pages  5513­5523)  wherein it is

 . stated that the Society has got 4250 square metres of land on

 30 years of lease basis and mutation  in this regard stands

 attested   on   25.06.2018   and   the   same   is   supported   by   the

 copy of jamabandi Annexure VSL­1. As regards built­up area

 of the institution,  the same is 3280 square metres and this

 is   sufficient   since   the   institute   is   running   only   B.Ed.   and

 D.El.Ed   Courses   with   single   unit,   whereas,   the   M.Ed. Course,  being run by it earlier,  has been closed in the year

 2015.  As  regards instructional deficiencies, as in the other

 cases, time upto the next academic session, is granted to the

 institution    to remove the same or else consequences shall

 follow. Thus, we do not agree with the report   submitted by

 the SIT and accordingly both the institutions are allowed to

 continue with the courses as are being run by them. C a) 8: Namdhari   College   of   Education,   Bhojpur,  
 Sundernagar, District Mandi. 375 The SIT in its Progress Report No.7 (pages 11 to 19)   has   on   the   basis   of   the   inspection   and   perusal   of   the

 records drawn the following conclusions:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­261­

 "(i) Though the land situated in Muhal Bhojpur where
 B.Ed College building is existing, was initially leased
 on   27.11.2006   in   favour   of   Namdhari   Education
 Society for a period of 30 years, yet no mutation  of the

 . same   had   been   got   done   in   the   revenue   records. Subsequently, the said land was transferred   by Shri
 Rishi Singh in the name of his son Shri Kulwant Singh

 without  the knowledge  of the NCTE. (ii) In its affidavit dated 02.07.2007, Shri Rishi Singh,

 President     of   the   Society     mentioned     the   total   land
 area to be 5720 square metres and built up area   as
 2269   square   metres,   whereas,   Shri   Dharam   Pal,

 architect,   of the said building has given the built up

 area   as   2455   square   metres   in   the   statement   dated
 01.07.2007. The building completion certificate   dated
 17.05.2008   issued   by   the   President,   Municipal

 Council,   Sunder   Nagar,   shows   the   built   up     area   as
 3324.76   square   metres.     During   the   course   of

 inspection   by   the   SIT,   the   built   up   area     has   been
 found to be 1765.09 square metres only.  This goes to

 show   that   different   statements     were   given   by   Shri
 Rishi   Singh   from   time   to   time   to   NCTE   to   suit   is

 convenience which amounted to misrepresentation   to
 the NCTE.  In addition, a material fact regarding   non
 construction at a site measuring 5348 square metres
 situated at a distance of about 4­5 Kms from the B.Ed
 College     building   and   lease   to   the   Society   on
 05.12.2006   for   30   years     had   been   cancelled   from
 NCTE. ­262­ (iii) The institution lacks in infrastructure facilities for
 B.Ed  Course and is situated  in the market area with
 a lot of disturbance and noise pollution. (iv) The institution lacks  in instructional area  as well

 . because there   is no Principal and shortage of faculty

 members as well. It   is   accordingly   prayed   that   a   criminal   case     be
 ordered to be registered against Shri Rishi Singh and
 others   either   by   the   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   and   Anti

 Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh,   for   obtaining
 recognition/affiliation  from NCTE/HPU on the basis of
 false   information/affidavits   regarding   the   land     and

 built up area and other infrastructure available   with

 the Society. It is further prayed  that since  the institution lacks in

 infrastructural   and   instructional     facilities   and
 recognition   and   affiliation   had   been   obtained     by
 concealment   of   facts   and   submission   of   misleading

 affidavits,   directions   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   for

 cancellation of recognition and affiliation thereof  after
 the   present   batch   passes   out     and   no   further

 admissions be allowed for the Sessions  2017­19." 376 The institute initially filed its reply (pages 212­ 303),   wherein it is averred that institution had applied for

 NRC/NCTE certificate for the B.Ed Course and the competent

 authority after having   found the institution eligible for the

 same had granted   recognition  vide order dated 13.09.2007 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­263­

 for an   intake of 100 seats in B.Ed Course. The institution

 has ample amount of land available with it and in support of

 this   contention,   the   land   title   certificate     issued   by   the

 . competent authority has been annexed as Annexure R37/C

 to claim that  it has 6­12­8 bighas of land in its name. This

 aspect, according to the institution, has been left out by the

 SIT   in   its   report     and   in   case   this   land   is   taken   into

 consideration,   then   no   deficiency   whatsoever   would   have

 been   found.     It   is   further   averred   that   in   the   year   2008,

 certain   land   was   sold   by   Rishi   Singh   to   the   respondent

 Society   and   in   addition     thereto,   he   had   also   leased   out

 certain   land   in   favour   of     the   Society.       The   institution   is

 having 5711 square metres of land,  which is far in excess of

 what is prescribed under the norms.  It is claimed that there

 are  no deficiencies insofar as the infrastructural facilities are

 concerned. 377 The  VT of the NCTE in compliance to the orders

 of   this   Court   conducted     inspection   of   this   institution   on

 13.06.2018   and   did   not   notice   any   major   infrastructural

 deficiency, save and except,  that as against the requirement

 of 3000 square metres, the institute  was built on a piece of

 land measuring 362 square metres only.   On the basement

 level   (which   is   actually   ground   floor   of   the   building)   DPS ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­264­

 Primary School     was being run by the Society. The land on

 which the institute building existed was found to be in the

 name of   Kulwant Singh son of Shri Rishi Singh and not in

 . the name of the Society or the institute.  Further, as against

 requirement   of   2000     square   metres   of   built­up   area,   the

 Namdhari    CE   was  having    only  1765.09  square   metres  of

 built­up   area   which   was   being   used     for   B.Ed.   Course. Another area of 339.50  square metres  on the top floor was

 under   construction   which   was   proposed   to   be   used   as

 multipurpose   hall   by   the   institute.   A   note   thereafter   is

 appended  with this report which reads thus:­ (i)  The management has given   affidavit  that they

 have   purchased   the   sufficient   built­up     area   at   the
 four kilometres   distance. To this built up area, they
 want to  take the building on lease basis for a period

 of 30 years and in the undertaking, they have stated

 that  the building will be completed  within six months
 period. (ii)   Presently,   the   College   is   using   constructed   floor
 hall for morning  assembly. The multipurpose hall on
 the first floor is being for seminar and functions also. 378 In addition to this report, we find another report

 of   NCTE   (at   pages   3987­3991).     Evidently,   this   report   has

 been prepared at Delhi and, therefore, much credence  to  the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­265­

 same   cannot   be   given.   However,   we   may   notice   that   the

 institute   has   given   an   undertaking   on   13.06.2018   stating

 that it wants to hire the building from   Shri Kulwant Singh

 . on   lease   basis   which   is   four   kilometers   away   from   the

 existing building.   As per  regulations in vogue, the building

 to be purchased on lease is not allowed and, therefore, this

 objection   of   the   NCTE   appears   to   be   valid   because   as   per

 regulations the building should be complete in all   respects

 and in any case should be under construction. 379 The   institute   has   tried   to   controvert   the

 aforesaid reports by filing affidavit (pages 5756­5831) of one

 Shri  Rishi  Singh   wherein   it  is  averred   that   land   in  Khasra

 Nos.  661 and 662  was  purchased  by   Rishi Singh  and his

 wife, respectively, in the year 1981­82 vide  two separate sale

 deeds     dated   27.07.1981   and   13.05.1982.     The   land

 purchased   by   Rishi   Singh   was   already   having   building

 standing   thereupon   wherein   one   floor   was   already

 constructed.   In 1982,   two additional floors were added to

 the   same   and   thereafter   in   the   year   1999   three   additional

 floors     were   constructed   over   the   same.     Even   though   the

 lease   deed   was   executed   by   Rishi   Singh   and   his   wife

 Harjinder Kaur in favour of Namdhari Education Society for

 30 years, however, during family settlement, the above land ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­266­

 was   transferred  in   the  name   of   Kulwant   Singh   son   of   Shri

 Rishi Singh,  who   has  not  objected   to   the   lease   deed,  as   is

 evident from the affidavit filed.   However,   it is averred that

 . even  Kulwant Singh has not objected to this lease deed and

 rather has given an affidavit Annexure R­F to this effect.  It is

 thereafter   averred     that     the   deponent   was   also   owner   of

 1/5th share of land comprised in Khewat No.269, Khatauni

 No.290,   Khasra   Nos.     425,   442,   448,   measuring   13­04­17

 bighas   and   out   of   his   1/5th   share,   half   share   was   sold   to

 Namdhari   Education   Society   vide     sale   deed     dated

 21.06.2008. 380 It has further been submitted that the building

 constructed   at Mohal Bhojpur on which Namdhari College

 is   running,   has   been   recently   inspected   by   the   Assistant

 Engineer, HPPWD and has been declared safe in all respects. Earlier to that, a lease deed was executed between  Namdhari

 Education   Society     and   one     Gurdayal,   whereby   an   area

 measuring     63.24   square   metres     has   been   leased   out   in

 favour   of   the   Society   and   the   same   is   opposite     to   Khasra

 Nos. 661 and 662.  It is submitted that on this land  the said

 Gurdyal  has raised a huge building which is being used for

 the purpose of hostel by the Society.  Lastly, it is averred that

 at   the   time   of   its   inspection   the   Society   was   fully ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­267­

 complying with the norms and even today as against the total

 required   area   of   2500   square   metres,   out   of   which   1500

 square  metres  should  be  built­up,  the    deponent  is  having

 . total land measuring 5000 square metres, whereas, the built­

 up  area over Khasra Nos. 661 and 662, Mohal Bhojpur alone

 is about 2000 square metres.  Therefore, the institution has

 met the instructional requirement as per the relevant norms

 of NCTE. 381 Having   gone   through     the   report   of   the   SIT,

 reports of the VT and the affidavits filed by the institute, we

 are     clearly   of   the   opinion   that   the   institute   should   be

 permitted to run subject   to the condition that it completes

 all the infrastructural requirements before the start of next

 academic   session   i.e.   2019­2021   and   that   apart   all

 instructional deficiencies are removed by the next academic

 session. C a)9: Vijay Memorial College of Education (B. Ed.), 
 Ner Chowk, Mandi. C a) 10: Vijay   Memorial   College   of   Education  
 (D.El.Ed.), Ner Chowk, Mandi. 382 The SIT  in its  Progress Report  No. 7(pages 42­ 50) on the basis of the physical inspection and scrutiny of the

 records has concluded that:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:44 :::HCHP ­268­

 "(i) These institutions lack in total area required as
 also   built­up   area   for   running   the   institutions
 and the other land acquired by the institutes is
 far away and is lying vacant. . (ii) Shri   Gaurav   Marwah,   Chairman,     Wisdom

 Education Society  has submitted a mandatory
 affidavit     dated   30.11.2016   to   the   NCTE   in

 which he has falsely claimed that the  institute
 was in possession of 3080 square metres  with
 a   built­up   area   of   3750   square   metres   as

 against the availability of 572 square metres  of
 land including  open area/pathway as against
 a   requirement   o   3500   square   metres   and

 1542.92 square metres of built­up area against

 a requirement of  3500 square metres. (iii) Some of the facilities  of BBA/BCA institute  are
 being shared  with the College of Education. (iv) The various facilities of the Educational College
 are being shared with  BBA/BCA College. It   has   been   prayed     that   a   criminal   case   be
 ordered   to   be   registered   either   by   the   CBI   or

 State   Vigilance   and   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,
 Himachal   Pradesh   against   Shri   Gaurav

 Marwah,   Chairman/Secretary     of   the   Society
 and  others  for  obtaining  recognition/affiliation
 from   NCTE/HPU   on   the   basis   of     false
 information/affidavits   regarding   the   land   and
 built­up   area   and   other     infrastructure
 available with the institute. It   has   further   been   prayed   that   since   false
 affidavit     had   been   submitted   by   the   Society
 regarding   its   infrastructure   and   instructional ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­269­

 facilities   to   NCTE,   directions   be   issued   to
 NCTE/HPU   to   cancel     the   recognition   and
 affiliation of the institute." . 383 The institute initially controverted the findings of

 the   SIT   by   filing   its   reply   (pages   672­721)   wherein   it   is

 averred that the requirement of 3500 square metres  of area

 as   a       pre­condition   for   recognition     by   the   NCTE     is   not

 applicable   to   the   case   of   this   institution   as   the   same   is

 prospective. However, still the institution is in the process of

 fulfilling   the requirement   as per 2014 Regulations and for

 this purpose land measuring  2014 square metres  in Mohal

 Karehari,   Tehsil   Balh,   District   Mandi,   is   in   the   process   of

 being mutated in the name of the  institution from the name

 of Wisdom Education Society, which will be utilized for the

 desirable     purpose   of   the   society   such   as   residential

 accommodation  for Principal/staff  and students etc.  It has

 been averred that the institution   has never misrepresented

 any   fact   from   NCTE   or   any   other   authority   and   the

 allegations made by the SIT are without any basis.  The other

 deficiencies found by the SIT have also been controverted in

 the   said   affidavit.     However,   we   really   not   want   to   go   any

 further   on   the   issue   in   view   of   the   institute   having   been

 physically   inspected     by   the   VT   of   the   NCTE   pursuant   to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­270­

 the   directions     issued   by   this   Court.     In   the   report   (pages

 3117­3120), no infrastructural deficiency  has been found  in

 this institution and rather a specific note has been given  at

 . page 3119 which reads thus:­

 "1. Khasra No.600 & 695, land is not showing  by the

 institution   for   recognition     of   teacher   Education
 Programme. 2.   The   land   measuring   2­9­16   bighas   (2014   sq.mtrs)

 comprising   Khasra   Nos.   63,   67,   310,   327,   399,   403
 and   406   dated   29.07.2009   is   in   the   name   of   Vijay
 Memorial   College   of   Education   is   for   the   purpose   of

 Boys   and   Girls   Hostel   or   any   other   desirable

 requirements of the college. Registered lease period is
 of 30 years from 1st Jan. 2005 to 31st Dec. 2040. 3   &10.   1995.04   sq.   mtrs.   Built   area   of   the   building

 including  staircase corridor and washrooms. One floor
 in the building of BBA/BCA having 335 sq. mtrs has

 been   added     for   Teacher   Education   Programme.   In

 addition   there  is 50  sq. mtrs. Principal  Cabin.  Total
 built   up   area   is   2380   sq.   mtrs   for   the   institution. Shortly the college  intends to shift from existing  site to
 new purchased  site at Mohal Barsu on Khasra No. 9,
 10,   11,   12,   15,   16   total   land     measuring   88
 Biswas(3250   sq.   mtrs)   as   per   the   essentially
 composite  institution as per revised NCTE regulations­
 2014. 4. The seminars  are not scheduled  on all the working
 days, Seminar room can be shared. ­271­ 5.   Principal   is   common   for   B.Ed.,   D.El.Ed.   and   BBA,
 BCA course.  As far as attached  toilet is concerned, it
 has been assured   by the Management that attached
 toilet will be built within 10 days. . 6. The Boys common room has been added on the top

 floor   of   the   BBA/BCA   Building.   Adequate     furniture
 and facilities has been added  in Girls common room. 7. It is not possible to extend the library because   of
 the   limitations   of   Town   &   Country   Planning
 department. The institution has purchased   new land

 and   construction   already   started     by   obtaining
 Essentiality   certificate   from   Directorate   of   Higher
 Education (HP). TEI will be shifted  to the new building. Moreover,   8435 Books are available   in the Literary

 which is more than as per NCTE Norms­2014. 8. Science stream students are less in number. 9. the institution fulfills staff requirement as per NCTE

 norms.   Regarding     the   payment   of   the   faculty
 members,     as   the   institution     is   self   financing   the

 payment   is   given   as   per   the   income   from   the
 programme.   College   is   paying     salary   with   EPF

 deduction as per the EPF norms. 11&12.   Due   to   hilly   area,   here   is   no   permission   for

 multi­storey building because of limitations of Town &
 Country Planning   department, therefore institution is
 forced   to   share   the   infrastructure   facilities   of
 BBA/BCA." 384 However,   we   find   that   there   is   another   report

 submitted by the VT (at pages 3992­3999) which report has

 been prepared at Delhi and is not based upon   the physical ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­272­

 inspection  and it has been mentioned therein  that there is

 no   evidence   to   establish   that   the   building     constructed   on

 Khasra   Nos.   63,67,   310,   327,   399,   403   and   406   and   the

 . deficiency is not removed.   Even otherwise,  as per VTR, total

 built­up   area   as   against   3500   square   metres   is   1995.04

 square metres and there are no separate toilets.  As observed

 that   this   report   has   been   prepared   by   the   officials   while

 sitting in the office at Delhi, therefore, much credence cannot

 be   given   to   the   same   as   it   is   not   based   on   physical

 inspection. However, be that as it may,   the institution has

 controverted   this   report   by   filing   an   affidavit   (pages   5225­

 5228) wherein it has been  averred that the inspecting team

 of NCTE itself while visiting the premises on 12.06.2018 has

 found it to be  in possession of 1995.04 square metres built­

 up   area   of   the   building   including     staircase,   corridor   and

 washrooms.   Additional   built­up area of 235 square metres

 in one of the floors  of the building being used for BBA/BCA

 Courses   has   also   been   added   to   the   teacher   education

 programme.   In   addition   thereto,   there   is   Principal's     cabin

 having 50 square metres area.  Therefore, presently built­up

 area with the institution is 2280 square metres.  Apart from

 that, 1161 square metres of land   at village Bhangrotu and

 the institution has also taken on lease 2014 square metres ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­273­

 of land at village Karehri and 5­5­0 bighas of land at village

 Mathaneol.  But, after coming into force of 2014 regulations,

 the   above   said   lands   at   villages   Karehri   and   Mathaneol

 . became   useless   due   to   the   requirement   under   the   said

 regulations of either the land being owned by the institution

 or being taken on lease from the Government.  The institute

 accordingly arranged to purchase 4­8­0 bighas  (3520 square

 metres) of land in Mohal Badsu, Tehsil Sadar, District Mandi,

 H.P. for creating the infrastructure conforming   to the 2014

 Regulations.     Essentiality   Certificate     has   also   been   issued

 by the Director of  Higher Education and the institution has

 already   applied   for   permission     to   the   Government   of

 Himachal   Pradesh   under Section   118 of   the   H.P.   Tenancy

 and Land Reforms Act for transfer  of the aforesaid land, but

 the   same   has   been   unduly   delayed     at   the   end   of   the

 authorities.  Due to withholding  of necessary permission, the

 institution has not been able to utilize   the above said land

 till   date.   That   apart,   even   though   the   institution   was

 complying   with   the   infrastructural   requirements   under   the

 old regulations, however, now the area in question  has been

 included  and brought under the provisions of the Town  and

 Country Planning   Area and thus has become amenable to

 compliance of requisite floor area ratio, as a result whereof, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­274­

 the   institution   is   precluded     from   enhancing     the   built­up

 area   at   its   existing     site   at   Mauza   Bhangrotu.     It   is   lastly

 averred that the other genuine deficiencies as pointed out by

 . the   SIT   stand   removed,   save   and     except   that   the   area   of

 library is 969.36 square  feet as against  the required area of

 1000 square feet. 385 On the basis of the above analysis, we have no

 difficulty  in concluding  that for the  present,  the institution

 cannot be asked to perform the impossible as it has to adhere

 to   the   floor   area   ratio   and   is   not     in   a   position   to   raise

 additional   floor   area   in   view   of   the   prohibition   and

 compliance of floor area ratio under the Town and Country

 Planning   Area.     As   regards   the   permission   sought   by   the

 institution under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land

 Reforms   Act,   the   concerned   authorities     are   required   to

 decide the said application as expeditiously as possible and

 in no event later than the next academic session.   In case,

 the institution is granted permission, it will ensure that all

 the   infrastructural   facilities,   as   contemplated   under   the

 regulations, are completed by the start of the next Academic

 Session   from   2019­2021   and   further   in   case   no   such

 permission is forthcoming, then the institution may have to

 close   down   some   of   the   courses   from   the   next   Academic ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:45 :::HCHP ­275­

 Session so as to ensure that it complies  with the norms that

 are in vogue. . C a) 11: Lalji   B.Ed.   College,   N.H.   21,   PO   Gutkar,  
 Teh.Balh, District Mandi. 386 The SIT in its Progress Report No.7 (pages 51 to 57) on the basis of physical inspection and after scrutiny of

 records has concluded:­ (i)

 The   land   area   is   deficient   in   as   much   as   the
 institute has  been built on 1723 sq. mtrs plot. Further,     the   land   is   not   in   the   name   of   the

 Sacred Heart Education Society or Lalgee B.Ed
 College   but   stood   in   the   name   of   M/s   Lalgee
 Meter & Electricals in the revenue records. (ii) Shri   Paras   Mahajan   s/o   Shri   Sunil   Gupta,
 Secretary   of   the   Society­cum­Director     of   the
 institute has given a false mandatory  affidavit

 dated 30/11/2016 to NCTE to the effect   that

 the institute   has got a total land area of 8500
 sq. mtrs and total built up area of 2672 sq. mtrs

 as against an available area of 1723 sq. mtrs
 and built up area of 2028  sq. mtrs. This land
 area of 8500 sq. mtrs was also falsely claimed
 to   be   in   possession   of   the   institute/Society   at
 the   time   of   applying   for   recognition   of   B.Ed
 Course. (iii)  The  institute was  also  lacking in certain other
 facilities which were essential for B.Ed Course. ­276­

 It has accordingly been prayed that a criminal
 case be ordered to be registered  either by  CBI
 or     State   Vigilance   &   Anti­Corruption   Bureau,
 Himachal Pradesh against Shri Paras Mahajan,

 . Secretary of the Society and others for obtaining

 recognition/affiliation   from   NCTE/HPU   on   the
 basis   of   false   information/affidavits   regarding

 the   land   and   built   up   area   and   other
 infrastructure   available   with   the   institute.     It
 has   further   been   prayed   that   since   false

 affidavit   had   been   submitted   by   the   Society
 regarding   its   infrastructure   and   instructional
 facilities   to   NCTE,   directions   be   issued   to

 NCTE/HPU to cancel the recognition & affiliation

 of the institute." 387 The institute controverted the report of the SIT

 by filing reply (pages 318­350) wherein it is averred that for

 the   purpose   of   running     the   institution,   the   Society

 commenced the work of development and construction at site

 at Muhal Gutkar on the land taken on lease from one  Sunil

 Gupta,   proprietor   of   M/s   Lalgee   Meters   and   Electricals

 Private Limited.  The said lease was made on the basis of the

 lease   agreement   which   was   duly   registered   on   26.04.2007

 and   prior   to   the   registration   of   the   said   lease,   the   lease

 agreement   was   notarized.   Subsequently   the   lease   was

 executed  vide lease deed dated 26.04.2007. The initial lease ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­277­

 was   taken   for   5   Kitas   of   land   measuring   10­10­16   bighas. The   construction   was   commenced   in   the   year   2005   and

 completed   in   2007   and   thereafter   the   institution   became

 . functional   from   Academic   Session   2007­08   with

 commencement of B.Ed Course with intake  of 100 students

 as per the terms of the recognition order issued by NCTE on

 17.08.2007. The institute was fully complying with the norms

 of 2005 wherein  there was no condition that the land should

 be   in   the   name   of   the   Society   or   the   institute.   The

 construction   and   development   of   the   project   itself   costs   of

 Rs.4­5 crores approximately. The institute has approximately

 8500   square   metres   of   land   out   of   which   built­up   area   is

 2672   square   metres.     Certain   other   deficiencies   as   pointed

 out  by the SIT are stated to have been removed, however, we

 need   not   to   delve   on   this   issue   as   this   institute   has   been

 physically inspected by the VT of NCTE in compliance to the

 directions passed by this Court.  The VT in its report (pages

 3121 to 3124) dated 13.06.2018 has found the deficiencies,

 as were pointed out by the SIT, to have been removed.   In

 addition   thereto,   the   VT   has   appended   the   following   note

 along with its report which reads thus:­

 "1, 2 & 3. Land was taken on long term lease dated
 14/11/2004 to 31/03/2005 for 30 years.  Since it is a ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­278­

 lease   document,   it   is   not   possible   to   register   in   the
 name of the Society. The Society has purchased more
 than 5000 sq. mtrs. (5­13­16 bighas) land namely  and
 action to bring that land in the name of Society (College)

 . is   under   process   and   progress.     B.Ed   College   was

 started   in the year 2007 under the NCTE regulations
 2005.   There   was   no   land   related   restrictions   at   that

 time. 4.   Under   NCTE   2014   norms   recommended     built   up
 area should be 1500+500=2000 sq. mt. for 1+1 unit of

 B.Ed Programme. College already meets the minimum
 built up area required. 5. Necessary required facilities were provided in boys

 common room. 6.The college has purchased more books. Now they are
 maintaining 4045 books with 1150 titles. 7.Separate curriculum Lab has been provided Art and

 Craft Resource Centre has been established in bigger
 and   spacious   hall   with   all   required   materials   and

 equipments. 8.The   Principal   has   been   recruited   by   the   Managing

 Committee on dated 03.10.2010. The College requested
 for approval  by H.P. University on dated 05.05.2012,

 30.04.2013,   23.06.2015   and   27.07.2015.     University
 has   approved   the   selection   committee,   due   to   non­
 availability of Selection Committee members interview
 was not conducted   so far, for which management is
 not   responsible.   Assistant   Professor   in   Physical
 Education   has   been   appointed     and   more   teaching
 staff has   been recruited by the college. Technical and
 Lab   Assistants     have   also   been     appointed   in   the
 college.     All   the   faculty   members   are   being   paid ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­279­

 according   to   the   revenue   receipt   of   the   college.   The
 Society   in   its     meeting   has   now   decided   to   make   all
 payments   including  to   the   staff   through  their   Salary
 Accounts   in   H.P.   State   Co­Operative   Bank   from

 . forthcoming Academic Session. In the academic session 2017 the number of staff was
 less   than   20   whereas   now   they   are   more   than   20. Society   has   decided   to   open   EPF   account   from   next
 academic session onwards. 9.  ITI is being run  under separate Educational Society

 and in a separate building and has nothing to do with
 B.Ed. College." 388 From   the   records,   we   find   that   there   is   yet

 another   report   of   the   NCTE   on   the   file   (pages   4000­4006)

 which appears to have been prepared by the NCTE at Delhi

 without   carrying   out   physical   inspection   wherein   the

 following  infrastructural deficiencies have been pointed out:­

 "i)   No   document   furnished/evidence   to   show   that  

 land is in the name of  the institution/college. ii)  Certificate dated 09.06.2018  issued    by Pradhan,

 Gram   Panchayat     says   four   storey   building
 constructed, built up are 2672 sq. mtr., no Khasra No.
 indicate and BCC  not available with VTR." 389 As in the other cases, no credence can be given

 to this  report as admittedly the same has not been prepared

 after   physical   verification   of   the   premises.   That   apart,     we ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­280­

 find that the institution itself has filed an additional affidavit

 (pages 4575­4600) wherein it has been pointed out that the

 land  was taken by the institute on lease  vide long term lease

 . dated 14.11.2004 for a period of 30 years and at that time

 the   institute   was   governed   by   regulations   of   2005.     Apart

 from   that,   permission   to   have   the   land   transferred   has

 already   been   sought   by   moving   an   application   before   the

 Government under Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land

 Reforms Act (Annexure R­42/C). As regards built­up area, it

 is   averred   that   even   the   VT,   on   physical   inspection,     was

 satisfied   with   the   area   possessed   by   it   and   accordingly

 submitted   its   report   which   could   not   have   been   set   aside

 cursorily by NCTE. 390 We   have   gone   through   the   material   placed   on

 record   and   find   that   the   institute   has   practically   complied

 with the regulations that were in vogue  and has also applied

 to the Government for transfer of the land.  We accordingly

 direct the concerned authority to decide the application for

 transfer of land as expeditiously as possible and in no event

 later   than   the   next   academic   session.     As   there   are   no

 deficiencies in the working of the institution, it is permitted

 to continue with the courses, as are being run by it. ­281­

 C a)14: Karishma   Educational   Centre   (B.Ed.),   Ner  
 Chowk, District Mandi. C a) 15: Karishma   Educational   Centre   (D.El.Ed.),   Ner  
 Chowk, District Mandi. . 391 The SIT in its Progress Report No.7 (pages 34 to 41), on the basis of physical inspection and after scrutiny of

 records has concluded as follows:­ (i) There is acute shortage of total land area as well as the
 total built p area. The institution had been constructed only

 on   khasra   No.   1242   measuring   483   sq.   mtrs.   in   Mauza
 Dadour with a built up area of 1318.50 sq. mtrs. The other
 land comprising Khasra No. 837 measuring 3­1­3 in Mauza

 Dadour are totally irrelevant in as much as they are neither

 contiguous   nor   any   construction   has   taken   place   on   the
 same. (ii)   Shri   Lalit   Pathak   in   his   mandatory   affidavit   dated

 25.11.2016   submitted   to   the   NCTE   on   behalf   of   Krishma
 Educational  Centre had falsely claimed that the land area
 available to the institute was 3240 sq. mtrs. and the built up

 area was 1820 sq. mtrs. The other land situated at Khasra

 No.   837   in   Mauza   Kaihad   and   Khasra   No.   84   in   Mauza
 Dadour   are   not   contiguous   and   no   construction   has   been

 carried out over that land. (iii)   The   institute   lacks   in   basic   facilities   for   M.Ed.
 Students. (iv) There is a shortage of faculty members and no regular
 Principal   has   been   appointed   as   the   regular   Principal   is
 reported to be on Extra Ordinary Leave from July 2015 to
 July 2017. 392 The institute has initially filed its affidavit (pages

 931­1023)   controverting   the   report   submitted   by   the   SIT, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­282­

 however,   we   need   not   refer   to   the   same   at   this   stage   and

 shall   refer   the   same   only   in   case   need   arises.   Since   the

 institution   has   been   physically   inspected   by   the   VT   of   the

 . NCTE pursuant to the direction passed to this effect by this

 Court,   the   first   report   is   available   at   pages   3125­3126,

 wherein no deficiency has been found and rather a note has

 been appended at the end of the report which reads thus:­ 1.   Land   Area:   Khasra   No.   1238   area   1­5­9   Bigha   and
 Khasra No. 1243 Area 1­13­15 Bigha ground area, Khasra
 No. 1242 Area 0­13­19 Bigha building land, khasra No. 84

 area 0­10­0 bigha 500 metres away from the college, khasra

 no. 837 area 3­1­3 bigha is proposed land due to National
 Highway Authority of India wants to acquire land of building
 khasra No. 1242 for four lane purpose. 2. total built up area: 1959.26 (1514.52 sq. mtrs college built

 up + aaa. 74 girls Hostel) for two courses. 3.  Reduced  one  unit   of   B.Ed.  and   M.Ed.   Dropped.  Having

 only one unit of D.El.Ed and one unit of B.Ed. i.e. 50+50.
 Library having seating capacity of 50% students. 4   &   7..   closed   M.Ed.   Course   from   the   year   2016.   Not
 applicable. 5. Regular Principal appointed Dr. Vandana Kumari as per
 NCTE norms appointment date & joining date is 18.05.2018.
 Seven faculty for B.Ed. approved from HPU, shimla. Seven
 faculty   for   D.El.Ed.   approved   from   DIET,   Mandi   (1+7++).
 Regarding the payment. College is paying salary with EPF
 deduction as per the EPF norms. 6. Information in the point number 1 and 2. 393 In addition thereto, there is another report of the

 NCTE available at pages 3201­3203, wherein this time, it has ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­283­

 been pointed out that as   per the documents submitted with

 the  VTR   relating  to   land  documents,   it  is   very  clear  that   the

 point raised by SIT is still existing. Evidently, this report has

 . been   prepared   in   the   office   without   there   being   a   physical

 verification,   therefore,   much   credence   to   the   same   cannot

 otherwise be lent. 394 In   addition   to   that,   we   may   notice   that   the

 institute has filed affidavit wherein it is stated that the Society

 is   presently  running  a  single   unit  of  B.Ed   and  single   unit  of

 D.El.Ed. and has got 3242 sq. mtrs. of land, wherein 2852 sq.

 mtrs.   is   in   single   block   in   Khasra   No.   1238,   1242,   1243,

 whereas  390.69  sq.  mtrs.  of  land  is  500  meters  away   and  is

 comprised in khasra No. 84. The land in Khasra No. 1238 and

 1243 is on ownership basis by virtue of gift deed whereas land

 comprised in Khasra No. 1242 is on 32 years lease. As regards

 land  in   khasra  No.  84,   the  same  is   on   ownership  basis.   The

 institute is having 3240 sq. mtrs. which was wrongly typed as

 3242   sq.   mtrs.   over   which   the   built   up   area   is     1959.26   sq.

 mtrs. including the hostel as reported by the VT of the NCTE. Thereafter   the   institute   has   filed   another   affidavit,   which   is

 available   at   pages   6896­6951,   wherein   it   is   averred   that   as

 against   the   requirement   of   3000   sq.   mtrs.,   the   institute   is

 having 2953.58 sq. mtrs. and in addition thereto khasra No. 84 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:46 :::HCHP ­284­

 measures 0­10­0 bigha which is equivalent to 404.6 sq. mtrs. In this way, the total land owned and possessed by the College

 comes   to   3352.18   sq.   mtrs.   As   regards   built   up   area,   the

 . Society is having total built up area of 1986.50 sq. mtrs., which

 in our considered view, for the time being, is sufficient to run

 the   courses   as   are   currently   undertaken   by   the   institution. However, in case, there is any increase in the seats or courses,

 then obviously, the institute would be required to increase its

 infrastructure   and   instructional   facilities,   accordingly.     As

 such,   the   institute   is   permitted   to   run   its   courses   which   are

 being run by it, of course, subject to the institution removing

 the instructional deficiencies by the next academic session. C b) 1: Gautam   Institute   of   Management   and  
 Technology, Hamirpur. 395 It was  probably because of the working of this

 Institute that resulted in the inspection of all the institutions. 396 The SIT after scrutiny of the record and physical

 inspection   of   the   institute   found   various   shortcomings   and

 on the basis thereof, has prayed that: unknown   others   under   the   relevant   provisions   of Indian   Penal   Code   and   Prevention   of   Corruption   Act,
 1988 . (ii)  Directions be given to AICTE, New Delhi, Director
 (Technical   Education),   Sundernagar,   Mandi   and
 Himachal   Pradesh   Takniki   Shiksha   Board,

 Dharamshala   to   stop   the   diploma   course     in
 polytechnic   permanently   after   the   2014­2015   batch
 passes out due to alleged acts of ragging and suicide

 by one Amit Kumar. Further since there is no building,

 infrastructure, faculty and other logistic support to run
 MBA   course,   directions   be   issued   to   the   concerned
 authorities   to   stop   this   course   with   immediate   effect

 after the previous batches passed out.
 397 The institute had initially controverted the report

 filed by the SIT by filing reply (pages 117­137) wherein it is

 stated   that   the   institute   has   not   admitted   any   student   in

 polytechnic   course   after   2014­15   batch,   qua   which   the

 intimation     already   stands   given   to   AICTE   and   Director,

 Technical Education,   Govt.  of  Himachal Pradesh.   So  far  as

 the course of MBA, which had commenced in the year 2012­

 13, the same has been discontinued   immediately after the

 report of the Special Investigation Team, which had pointed

 out   certain   deficiencies   in   the   institute,   after   which     the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:47 :::HCHP ­286­

 management   committee     of   the   institute   decided   not   to

 continue   the   said   course   and   permission   has   already   been

 sought from AICTE and H.P. Technical University for grant of

 . permission to discontinue the course with a further prayer to

 issue NOC.   It was lastly submitted that though there were

 certain   deficiencies/shortcomings,   but   the   same   would   be

 removed within the shortest possible time. 398 The   institute   was   inspected   by   the   Special

 Expert Committee of AICTE pursuant to the directions issued

 by this Court, who in its report (at pages 2480­2494)   after

 inspection,   has   reported   that   the   Gautam   Institute   of

 Management   and   Technology   could   not   be   found   and   EVC

 visited   Head   office   of   Gautam   Group   of   College,   Hamirpur

 and the Administrative Officer Mr. Virendra Singh informed

 that the said institute had been closed   and they have not

 applied for extension of approval. The premises are now being

 used as College of Nursing only. Few rooms in ground floor

 are   being   used   for   conducting   classes   for   2 nd  year

 Management   students,   which   is   inadequate.   No

 library/books, computer lab and other facilities as required

 are available at the premises to run the course. 399 However, the report of the SIT was controverted

 by filing a detailed supplementary  affidavit (at pages 5293­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:47 :::HCHP ­287­

 5362) wherein it is pointed out that it was after inspecting

 the   institute,   the   AICTE   had   accorded   approval   to   the

 institute   to   start   the   MBA   course,   but   the   same   had   been

 . closed   after   the   report   of   the   SIT.   Thereafter,   in   2012,   the

 Society took on lease land measuring 1285.43 sq.mtrs. which

 was having a five storeyed structure  with a built up area of

 2818.14 sq.mtrs. thus increasing the total area of the land

 alone to more than 13515.25 sq.mtrs. it was after ensuring

 that the institute had sufficient land and built up area that

 the   institute   was   permitted   to   run   Bachelor   of   Hotel

 Management   (BHM)   3   years   course   and   M.Sc.'s   courses   in

 the   stream   of   Zoology   and   Maths   vide   letter   dated

 27.10.2017.   It   has   been   declared   and   affirmed   that   in

 addition   to   the   above   given   13515.25   sq.   mtrs.   of   land,   a

 built up area of 7696.57 sq.mtrs. is available as of today, in

 addition   thereto,   the   Society   has   also   raised   up   a   huge

 complex     for   its   students   over   Khasra   Nos.   76­81,   Mauza

 Bajuri,   Up   Mohal   Chaula   Khurd,   Ward   No.10,   Hamirpur

 measuring   2316.74   sq.mtrs.   where   built   up   area   of   6138

 sq.mtrs.  is at the stage of completion and the same is likely

 to be completed before December, 2018, which would make

 the   total   built   up   area   available   with   the   institute     to   be ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:47 :::HCHP ­288­

 about 13834.57 sq.mtrs. which is far in excess of the norms laid down by the AICTE. 400 It   was   after   taking   into   consideration   the

 . affidavit   filed   by   the   institute   that   the   AICTE   was   again

 directed   to   inspect   the   institute.   In   compliance   to   the

 directions,   EVC   has   submitted   its   report   (at   pages   6480­

 6512,6369, 6405) and the team has found that  the Gautam

 Girls   College   Management   Committee   is   having   total   land

 available with the institute to be 10618.29 sq.mtrs. = 2.639

 acres. In addition thereto, the institution was having 3304.25

 sq.mtrs. = 0.819 acres land on lease/rent basis. However, it

 was   stated   that   still   there   were   the   following   deficiencies

 with regard to the land: ii. The   land   areas   available   against   the   land

 lease/rent   deed   is   of   0.819   acres   had   been
 given   to   the   institute   through   lease   deeds
 owned   by   one   Mr.   Jagdish   Gautam,   the
 President   of   the   institute   and   all   blocks
 constructed   on   these   leased/rented   lands   are
 approved only for the construction of residential
 accommodation   and   not   for   an   educational
 institute. ­289­

 Iii. The   building   plans   of   the   building     (Block   D)
 which is built for  running the Gautam Institute
 of Management and Technology is given to the
 institute   by   the   private   lease/rent   deed   on

 . 19.11.2012 by the owner Mr. Jagdish Gautam

 and   the   available   area   is   1285.43   sq.mtrs.   =
 0.3176 acres. iv. As per the AICTE norms the land for running the
 institution is required to be in the ownership of
 the Society or the land should be in possession

 of the Society through Govt. lease. In this case
 the land is neither owned by the institute nor is
 in its possession through Government lease. v. In   addition   to   that,   Gautam   Institute     of

 Management   and   Technology,   is   also   running
 Gautam   Institute   of   Nursing     in   Block­D
 building. The available land as per the site plan

 is   only   0.3176   acres   against   the   AICTE
 requirement   of   0.5   acres   for   the   management

 institute at the time of first approval.
 vi. The   campus   on   Khasra   Nos.   699,   2423/702,

 17, 19, 1920/16, 34 and 35 is not completely
 surrounded by compound wall. 401 In addition to the aforesaid, general deficiencies

 with regard to the infrastructure, were as follows: In   addition   to   the   above,   the   AICTE   has   also   found
 lacking   of   documentary   evidence   indicating   the

 . buildings   from   which   the   Gautam   Institute   of

 Management and Technology is running: 402 In   addition   thereto,     requirement   of   books   for

 running MBA course as per the AICTE norms was also found

 to be deficient. As per AICTE norms, 24 national journals are

 required   for   MBA   course,   whereas   as   per   furnished

 documents,   8   journals   were   subscribed   during   the   initial

 year of GMIT in the year 2012 and thereafter, no journal was

 subscribed.  Lastly,  as  against  150  computers,  the  institute

 was having only 126 computers, which are being shared  and

 used by the students of various constituent colleges, namely, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:48 :::HCHP ­295­

 Gautam   Girls   College,   Gautam   Polytechnic,   GIMT   and

 Gautam College of Nursing. 403 We have gone through the reports of the SIT and

 . VT.   The Objections of the SIT even though may have been

 relevant at the time of its inspection, but the same have lost

 their   efficacy   with   the   passage   of     time   as   majority   of   the

 deficiencies have already been removed by this institute and

 as   regards   other   instructional   deficiencies,   the   Institute   is

 granted time upto  the next academic session to  remove the

 same. Therefore, the institute is permitted to run its courses

 as   are   being   run   by   it   subject   to   removal   of   instructional

 deficiencies within the aforesaid period. C b) 2:  Shimla   Institute   of   Management   and  
 Technology, Sanjauli, Shimla. 404 Nothing survives for adjudication in this case as

 admittedly   no   admissions   have   been   made   from   the   year

 2010   and   rather   after   seeking   formal   approval,   the   course

 has been discontinued. C b) 3: Sai   Ram   College   of   Engineering   and  
 Technology   Tipper,   Barsar,   District  
 Hamirpur. 405 Closed. ­296­

 C b) 6a): Abhilashi  Institute  of Management  Studies,  
 Ner Chowk, Tehsil Sadar, District Mandi, H.P.

 C b) 6b): Abhilashi   College   of   Pharmacy,   Tanda,   PO  
 Balh, Tehsil Balh, District Mandi. . C b) 6c): Abhilashi   Colege   of   Education   (B.Ed.   and  
 M.Ed.), Ner Chowk, Mandi. 406 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (at pages 74­ 79)   after   the   inspection   has   found   that   the   Society   had

 obtained   approval   of   AICTE   for   the   MBA   institute   on   the

 basis of false facts regarding ownership of land at the site. In

 fact, the land owned at the site was little less than  ½ acre

 whereas rest of the land was situated at places far off from

 the   College   site.   The   same   was   neither   contiguous   nor

 adjacent. Even the land on which the college had been built

 was  in  joint ownership  and  it  had  not  been  partitioned  till

 date   and   thus   the   approval     had   been   obtained   in   a

 fraudulent   manner   by   concealing   the   real   facts   about   the

 land area and its actual situation. 407 On the basis of the aforesaid, it was prayed that

 a criminal case be ordered to be registered either by CBI or

 State   Vigilance   and   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal

 Pradesh against Sh. T.R. Abhilashi and others for obtaining

 recognition/affiliation from AICTE/HPU on the basis of false ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:48 :::HCHP ­297­

 information/affidavits   regarding   the   land   available   with   the

 Society. 408 During the course of this petition, an application

 . was moved on behalf of the Institute for arraying the institute

 as a party as it was claimed that the institute had never been

 served with any notice by the SIT. 409 However, we need not to go into this question,

 since   the   Institute   already   stands   closed   after   obtaining

 necessary permission from AICTE with effect from academic

 session 2016­17. 410 The   institute   has   filed   supplementary   affidavit

 wherein  point­wise  objections  raised  by the  SIT,  have  been

 replied as under: The   deponent   submits   that   the   area   where   the

 institute   is   located   falls   within   the   jurisdiction   of

 Gram   Panchayat,   Kandraur,   the   same   is   not
 included   in   the   planning   zone,   as   such,   the
 occupation   certificate   is   to   be   issued   by   the   Gram

 Panchayat itself. Therefore, the deponent prays that
 this   deficiency   pointed   out   by   the   Special   Expert

 Committee may kindly be ordered to be dropped.
 H.  NOC for closure of UG course of Electronics and 

 Communications­Engineering has been received  
 from   H.P.   State   Govt.   and   H.P.   Technical  

 University,  Hamirpur. That in view of the approval accorded by AICTE for
 the   closure   of   the   UG   course   of   Electronics   and
 Communications­ Engineering, the deficiency pointed
 out is liable to be dropped. I.  Many   areas   filled   in   the   application   were   not  
 available during physical verification.
 The  deponent   submits  that  the   point   raised   by the
 Visiting   Committee   is   unsustainable   for   the   reason ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:49 :::HCHP ­302­

 that   no   specific   instance   has   been   pointed   out
 regarding the area mentioned in the application.
 J.  Although   the   building   is   G+4,   there   is   no
 provision  of  lift and barriers free environment is

 . not  available. The   deponent   submits   that   with   a   view   to   provide
 barrier free environment in the institute ramps have

 already been created at ground floor. Therefore, the
 deponent   prays   that   this   deficiency  pointed   out   by
 the Special Expert Committee may kindly be ordered

 to be dropped. K. Fire   NOC   is   not   available   from   the   Fire  
 Department. The  deponent  submits that  before  the  inspection of

 the Committee, the Society has already submitted an
 application for issuance of Fire Safety Certificate vide
 its communication dated 2.2.2018. 411 In Abhilashi Institute of Pharmacy, the SIT in its

 progress   report   No.8   (at   pages   57­64)   after   scrutiny   of   the

 records   and   physical   inspection   has   concluded   that   the

 Society   had   obtained   approval   for   its   Pharmacy   College   by

 fraudulent and  concealment of  facts  as  the  lands  were  not

 contiguous and were separated from each other by about 4

 Kms whereas the AICTE norms required that the land should

 have   been   contiguous   or   in   nearby   adjacent   pieces   which

 could be utilised by the Institute for the various activities  of

 the College. In fact, the Society had obtained permission u/s

 118 (2) of H.P. Land and Tenancy Act, 1972 to set up a B.Ed. ­303­

 College on Khasra Nos. 703 to 706 at Ner Chowk and these

 very   khasra   numbers   were   falsely   shown   with   a   view   to

 obtain approval for Pharmacy College also. . 412 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusion, it has

 been prayed that: 69, 70 and 124 as the Society had violated terms and

 conditions of the said permission by not using the land
 for   the   purpose   for   which   permission   had   been

 accorded,   within   the   stipulated   period.   Further,
 proceedings to recover the land as per provisions of the

 said   Act   and   Rules   framed   thereunder   should   be
 initiated by the Department of Revenue, Govt. of H.P.
 413 However,   we   need   not   refer   to   the   affidavit   in

 view   of   the   report   submitted   by   the   Expert   Visiting

 Committee pursuant to the directions of this Court, wherein

 they found no deficiency with regard to infrastructure: 414 With   regard   to   laboratories,   it   has   been

 mentioned   that   the   Institute   was   having   12   numbers   of

 Laboratories with all adequate machinery and equipment and

 with   regard   to   the   store,   it   has   been   mentioned   that     a

 separate store for inflammable articles   had been kept.   The

 institute   was   having   adequate   space   and   books   with   PCs,

 printers,   photocopy   machines   and   scanner   and   was   also

 having   barrier   free   environment.   The   institute   was   having

 sufficient number of faculty (20) and are approved by HPTU

 and 4 senior faculty members have obtained   Ph.D. as per

 AICTE norms and pay scales. 415 In Abhilashi College of Education, the SIT in its

 progress report No.8 (at pages 80­88) has concluded that the

 Society continued to misrepresent before different authorities

 about   the   actual   ownership   of   land   and   its   situation   for

 obtaining   approval   for   various   courses   and   increasing   the

 intake from time to time. Khasra Nos. 703 to 706 and 565

 have   been   shown   for   obtaining   approval   for   Abhilashi

 Institute of Pharmacy and Abhilashi Institute of Management ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:49 :::HCHP ­305­

 Studies   also.   It  is   on   the   basis   of  the   aforesaid   conclusion

 that it has been prayed that: 416 The   Institution   has   filed   its   reply/submission/

 objection to the report of SIT, pointing out that the institute

 is an old one which has been conducting courses prior to the

 notification   of   NCTE   Regulation,   2014.   The   land   available

 with the institute is comprised of Khasra Nos. 703,704, 705

 &   706   measuring   03­01­19   bighas   =   2507   sq.m.   on

 ownership basis in single piece and mutation whereof  stands

 attested in favour of the Society on 29.4.2006 vide mutation

 No.2687 and 2688.In addition thereto, the Society is having

 2­00­02 bigha of land on 99 years lease basis, being used for

 School.   The   total   constructed   area   as   per   NCTE   norms   is

 3500  sq.mtrs.  whereas  the  College  has  constructed  area of

 4074 sq.m. In addition to that, it is having multipurpose hall

 of 2130.50 sq.ft.  with sitting capacity of 210 students. ­306­

 417 As regards there being misrepresentation, it has

 been   pointed  out   that  the   management  college  has   already

 closed down from the Session 2016 with the prior approval of

 . AICTE,   HPTU   and   State   Government.   While   Pharmacy

 College was allotted separate land in Khasra Nos. 69, 70 and

 124 in lieu of Khasra Nos. 703, 704, 705 and 706 which are

 solely   being   used   by   the   College   of   Education.   In   addition

 thereto, the Pharmacy College   has been shifted to another

 site with the prior approval of all the authorities and State

 Government. 418 Having   gone   through     the   report   of   the   SIT,

 reports of the VT and the affidavits filed by the institute, we

 are     clearly   of   the   opinion   that   the   institute   should   be

 permitted   to   run   its   courses   subject     to   all   instructional

 deficiencies   being   removed   by   the   next   academic   session. Ordered accordingly. C b)7:  Sai   College   of   Engineering   &   Technology,  
 Sungal, Palampur, District Kangra, H.P.

 419 The SIT in its report No.9 (at pages 137­144) has

 concluded that the Society is being managed  by the family

 members   and   is   registered   in   Punjab   and   not   in   Himachal

 Pradesh. The land was acquired with the permission of the

 H.P.   Government   for   establishment   of   Sai   University.   The ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:49 :::HCHP ­307­

 same land and building was fraudulently shown to AICTE to

 obtain their approval for the Engineering courses and prayed

 that: 420 The   institute   was   inspected   by   the   EVC

 pursuant to directions   of this Court and in its first report

 available at pages 2575­2596)  has concluded as follows: 421 The institute has filed response to the inspection

 report submitted by the SIT, however, we need not refer to

 the same as no deficiency has been found by the inspecting

 team   of   the   AICTE.   Accordingly,   we   permit   the   institute   to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:49 :::HCHP ­308­

 run its courses as are being run by it  subject to instructional

 deficiencies are removed by the next academic session. C c) 1:   Sai Ram College of Pharmacy, Tipper, Barsar, 

 . District Hamirpur. 422 Closed. C d) 1  Gautam Girls Polytechnic, Hamirpur. 423 This   college   has   already  been   dealt   with   C  b)1

 Gautam Institute of Management and Technology. C d) 2: . 425 On the basis of these conclusions, it has been

 prayed that a criminal case be ordered to be registered  either

 by   the   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,

 Himachal Pradesh,  against   Shri Ajay  Kumar,  Chairman  of

 'Shri Dev   Memorial   Education Trust' as well as   Devasya

 Polytechnic  and  other unknown  for  obtaining    extension  of

 approval from AICTE on the basis of misrepresentation/false

 information     regarding   infrastructural   and   instructional

 facilities  available  with   the    Trust/Polytechnic.    It  has  also

 been prayed that directions be issued to AICTE and HPTSB

 not to grant   any further extension of approval/affiliation to

 Devasya   Polytechnic,   Hamirpur.     Further,   directions   be

 issued to the institute  to complete the courses in respect of

 students already admitted by it. 426 The   institute   was   physically   inspected   by   the

 team   of   Special   Expert   Committee     (pages   2614­2633)   on

 04.06.2018 and it was found  to be locked and sealed by the

 bank. Thereafter, this Court vide its orders  dated 18.05.2018

 directed the AICTE to conduct fresh inspection   and in the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­310­

 inspection   so   conducted,   the   following   deficiencies   with

 regard to infrastructure have been found:­

 "(i) The   infrastructure   facilities   and   the   available

 . faculty are inadequate. (ii) The   Polytechnic   campus   is   not   suitable   for
 physically challenged persons. (iii) There   is   no   parking   space   available   in   the
 Polytechnic. (iv) As per interaction with the faculty members, they

 are being paid salary in the range of Rs.5,000/­
 5,500/­ per month. (v) As per the feedback obtained from the available
 r faculty   members,   the   relations   between   top

 management   and the faculty and students are
 not healthy. (vi) The   equipments   in   laboratories   and   workshops

 are not in good operational conditions. (vii) The overall quality of construction of the institute

 building is poor. (viii) The academic ambiance  of the Polytechnic  was

 not found to be encouraging." 427 The   institute   filed   an   affidavit   of   Shri   Ajay

 Kumar, the authorized trustee and signatory  of the institute,

 wherein it was stated that the AICTE   conducted inspection

 on   04.06.2018   in   the   absence   of   representative   of   the

 institution.   The   institute   had   deposited   an   amount   of

 Rs.1,00,00,000/­   (One   Crore)   in   compliance   to   the   orders

 passed by the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) and thereafter ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­311­

 the   possession   was   given   to   it.     However,   the   institute

 remained closed for a considerable period of five months from

 February,   2018   till   6th  June,   2018   and   further   taking   into

 . consideration that the mother of the Managing Director of the

 institution was undergoing treatment for cancer, documents

 regarding the institute could not be produced, whereas, the

 institute   already   has   permission   under Section   118 of   the

 H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act. 428 As regards lack of parking facilities, it is claimed

 that the institution has sufficient parking facilities from the

 date of its inception in the year 2009, but the same could not

 be   maintained   properly     because   the   possession   of   the

 institute remained with the 'KCCB', but now after getting the

 possession, parking facility has been properly maintained.  It

 has   been   submitted   that   for   the   session   2016­17,   the

 institute has admitted 28 students and for session 2017­18,

 20   students     against   the   approved   intake   of   45   students,

 have been admitted.  Likewise, in the department of Fashion

 Technology,   as   against   the   intake   of   45   students,   only   14

 students   were   admitted   for   the   session   2016­17   and   07

 students  were admitted for the session 2017­18. As regards

 the department of Civil Engineering, as against intake of 45

 students,   only   20   students   were   admitted   for   the   session ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­312­

 2017­18 and there were 5 faculty  members for the sessions

 2016­17   and   2017­18   which   were   in   proportionate   to   the

 strength of the students.  As regards  Electrical Engineering,

 . as   against   the   approved   intake   of   45   students,   only   5

 students     were   admitted   for   the   session   2016­17,     17

 students   for  the   session   2017­18   and   there   were   8   faculty

 members   for   each   of   these   sessions.     As   regards   the

 department of Mechanical Engineering, as against the intake

 of   45,   only   30   students     were   admitted   for   the   academic

 session 2016­17 and 13 students for the academic session

 2017­18   and   there   were   8   faculty   members     in   both   the

 academic sessions.   As regards the courses of Architectural

 Assistance­ship and Information Technology, the same stand

 closed   for   the   reason   that   no   students   were   admitted   for

 these   course   for   the   session     2011­12.   As   regards   the

 deficiency in the area, it has been stated that  there is hardly

 any difference between the prescribed area and the area for

 class   rooms   available   with   the   institute   and   now   all   out

 endeavours are being made to provide  furniture. 429 The   institution   has     thereafter   filed     a   fresh

 affidavit   (at   pages   6999­7049)   wherein   practically   all   the

 averments that had been made in the earlier affidavit (at page

 6316) have again been reiterated. ­313­

 430 However, taking into consideration the report of

 the SIT coupled with the report of  AICTE  read with affidavits

 on   behalf   of   the   institution,   this   institution   can   only   be

 . permitted to continue with those of the courses for which it

 has already started till their completion and this institution

 cannot be permitted to  make any new admissions till and so

 long it does not comply with  the required norms.   Ordered

 accordingly. C d) 3:  Sai Ram Polytechnic, Tipper, Barsar, District
 Hamirpur. 431 Closed. C d) 4: Natraj   Polytechnic,   Sathal,   Rajwari,  
 Sundernagar,  District Mandi. 432 The SIT has submitted its Progress Report No.8

 (at pages 89­95).  However, we need not to go into the report

 of   the   SIT   since   the   institution     has   been   permitted   to   be

 closed   by   the   Directorate   of   the   Technical   Education,

 Himachal Pradesh, Shimla and the students studying in the

 college have sought their migration from Natraj Polytechnic to

 Dreamz Polytechnic at Khilra,  Tehsil Sunder Nagar, District

 Mandi, H.P. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­314­

 D a) 1  Shanti   Niketan   College   of   Education   for  
 B.Ed.,Hamirpur. D a) 2  Shanti   Niketan   College   of   Education   for  
 D.El.Ed., Hamirpur. . 433 The SIT in is Progress Report No. 4 (pages 34­52)

 after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical   inspection   has

 come to the following conclusions:­

 "(i) That   the   Society   approached   the   Govt.   of   Himachal

 Pradesh for grant of NOC to start a B.Ed college at
 Hamirpur   on   30/12/2002,   when   only   a   basement
 had   been   constructed   and   the   upper   floors   were

 under   construction   and   no   rent     deed   had   been

 executed. (ii) That the Directorate of Education was of the view that
 since   the Government had already issued NOCs to

 20   Societies/institutions   to   start     B.Ed   courses   for
 the academic  session 2003­04, therefore keeping in

 view   the   availability     of   trained   manpower,   there

 was no necessity to open more such institutions   in
 the   State.   However,     the   Society   used   political

 influence   and   got   orders   from   the   then   Education
 Minister of H.P. to issue NOC directly. (iii) That   in   an   initial   application   submitted   on
 31/12/2002 by the institution to Regional Director,
 NRC, NCTE, Jaipur, it was stated by the Society that
 the construction of the basement had been completed
 but   1st  and   2nd  floor   were     at   various     stages   of
 construction.  However, no lease/rent deed had been
 executed   at   that   point   of   time.     Moreover,     the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­315­

 Society/College did not own any land at that point
 of time. However, on 12/3/2003, 10 Kanals of land
 were   purchased   by   the   Society   in   Samluhi,Bhal
 Bhlawan   from   Smt.   Raksha   Devi   mother   of   Shri

 . Pawan   Kumar   Ahluwalia   who   is   now   heading   the

 Society. (iv) That during the 1st inspection of the college conducted

 by   the   inspection   team   of   NCTE   on   22/6/2003,   it
 was falsely  mentioned that the building was owned
 by the College/Society.  This was a serious lapse in

 as much as the rented building  was owned by one
 of   the   members   of   the   Society   and   no   rent/lease
 deed had been executed  in this regard at that point

 of time.  The inspection team also submitted  a false

 report   to   the   effect   that   the   institution   had
 instructional   and   infrastructural   facilities   for   100
 students.     It   would   not   be   out   of   place   to   mention

 here that these facilities  were still  inadequate even
 at the time of inspection by the SIT after a lapse of

 about   13   years.     Based   on   the   said   inspection
 committee   report,   NRC/NCTE   Jaipur   granted

 recognition/permission   to   the   said   institute   for   an
 intake   of  100   students  in  B.Ed   course   of  one   year

 duration for the session 2003­04. (v) That   in   its   order   dated   05/07/2003,   NRC/NCTE
 Jaipur,   while   granting   recognition   to   the   said
 institute,   incorrectly   observed   that   based   on   the
 information furnished in the application and also the
 inputs   received     from   the   inspection   team,   the
 institution had acquired the land to set up a teacher
 education institution and had constructed a building
 thereon.  This was apparently a false and inaccurate ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:50 :::HCHP ­316­

 statement  in as much as  the proposed  college  had
 purchased   the   land   only   in   March,   2003   and   no
 construction     had   been   carried   out     on   the   same.
 Even till date no building   had been constructed on

 . the   said   land   which   goes   to   show     that   the

 recognition   to   the   institution   was   granted     on   the
 basis of false and incorrect feed­back. (vi) That the inspection committee set up by HPU Shimla
 on 18/07/2003 for the affiliation of the said institute
 with a common member of the committee set up by

 NCTE namely Prof. R.K. Behl inspected the institute
 and   submitted   a   report   recommending   affiliation
 based   on   a   misrepresentation   that   the     institute

 possesses  college building of their own and as such

 HPU   granted   affiliation   to   the   institution   on
 18/09/2003. (vii) That     another   inspection   was   got     conducted   by

 VC/HPU on 30/03/2005 for extension of affiliation
 for   the   academic   year   2005­06   in   which   the

 inspection   committee   pointed   out     that   the   college
 was located in a residential colony and housed in a

 three storied residential accommodation   with some
 alterations/renovation   to   suit   temporary

 requirements of a make­shift institution of education.
 This   inspection   committee   also   pointed   out   other
 major deficiencies to the effect that  the institute was
 ill­equipped with an acute   shortage  of faculty and
 accommodation   and   therefore     did   not   recommend
 extension   of     affiliation.     However,   the   college
 authorities   in   its   compliance   report     dated
 31/05/2005 stated that the deficiencies   had since
 been removed and work undertaken to construct its ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­317­

 own building  and that by the end of July, 2006 the
 Society   will   shift   to   the   new   building   during   the
 session   2006­07.   This     was   accompanied   by   an
 affidavit   submitted   by   Shri   Praveen   Kumar   Katna

 . that   the   B.Ed   College   will   be   shifted     to   its

 permanent     building   during   the   session   2006­07.
 This   was   a   false   affidavit   and   again   a

 misrepresentation  was made to the HPU in as much
 as   even   till   today   the   construction     of   the   building
 had   not   started,   except   the   foundation   work   and

 incomplete   pillars erected thereon, based on which
 HPU extended   the affiliation for the session 2005­ 06. (viii) That  another  inspection team appointed by HPU for

 extension   of   affiliation   of   this   institute   for   the
 academic session 2007­08 conducted an inspection
 on   10/07/2007.     Even   in   this   report   it   was

 mentioned   that   the   college   was   running   from   a
 residential   area   and     that   the   institute   had   not

 shifted     to   new   building   as   undertaken   by   them
 during their extension of affiliation for the academic

 session   2005­06.     In   the   inspection   report   it   was
 clearly   observed   by   the   committee   that   the   college

 management   had   started     the   construction   of   new
 building   exclusively   for   B.Ed   Course   and   that   the
 Chairman   had   assured   the   committee   that   the
 building   would   be   ready   in   6   months   and   classes
 shifted to the new campus. Subsequently, during the
 other inspections from 2011­12 onwards to 2014­15
 the address of the institute had   been shown as 52
 Hira Nagar, Ward No.1, Hamirpur as no construction ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­318­

 had been carried out on the land  purchased by the
 Society in March, 2003. (ix) That an educational college could not have been run
 in   a   rented/leased   building   for   more   than   three

 . years   as   per   NCTE   norms.   It   appears     that   the

 college  authorities  have managed with the NCTE as
 well as with HPU. (x) That   during   the   inspection   conducted   by   the   SIT,   it
 was found that the total built up area of the building
 was less than 1/3rd   of the total area required for

 running  a B.Ed  College  and  1/6th    of  the  built  up
 area   required     for  running     B.Ed   and  JBT/D.El.Ed
 Courses.     There   was   no   acute   shortage   of   faculty

 members   and   no   regular   Principal     had   been

 appointed.     Further,   the   infrastructure   like   multi­
 purpose   hall,   seminar   room   class   rooms   and   labs
 lack the norms laid down by the NCTE.  Also,  there

 was  no Common Room, Faculty Room, Play Ground,
 Canteen   Facility,   Hostel   Facility,   Fire­Fighting

 facility,   parking   facility,   facilities   for   disabled
 students etc.  The labs were ill­equipped and did not

 have sufficient materials and infrastructure to meet
 the   standards   prescribed   by   the   NCTE   for   B.Ed

 course." 434 On   the   basis   of   the   conclusion,   it   has   been

 prayed that a criminal case  be ordered to be registered either

 by   the   CBI   or   State   Vigilance     &   Anti­Corruption   Bureau,

 Himachal   Pradesh   against   Shri     Pawan   Kumar   Ahluwalia,

 Chairman/President, Shanti Niketan Education and Welfare ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­319­

 Society   for   obtaining   approval/affiliation   on   the   basis   of

 misrepresentation,   Dr.   R.K.   Behl,   Dr.   M.L.   Makhija   for

 submitting  false inspection report and other unknown under

 . the relevant provisions of Indian Penal Code and Prevention

 of Corruption Act, 1988 .  Further that, directions be given  to

 NCTE,   New   Delhi,   Principal   Secretary/Director   (Education),

 Govt.   of   HP,   Shimla,   Himachal   Pradesh   University,   Shimla

 and   Education   Board,Dharamshala   to   stop   B.Ed   and

 J.B.T./D.El.Ed courses after the present batches pass out till

 a new building is constructed and proper faculty and logistic

 support   provided   by   the   Society   to   run   B.Ed   and   D.El.Ed

 courses strictly as per NCTE/HPU norms. 435 The   institution   filed   reply   to   the   SIT   report

 (pages  138 to 167) wherein it is averred that in the affidavit

 submitted by the Society, it had been clearly stated that  the

 building had been taken on rent and the Society was going to

 purchase   land     near   Salasi,   Tehsil   and   District,   Hamipur

 and,   therefore,   there   was   no   misrepresentation   in   this

 affidavit.   It is further averred that NOC was obtained from

 the NCTE as per the prevalent norms applicable in the year

 2003   when     there   was   no   requirement   that   the   building

 should be owned by the Society  and it was never represented

 to the authorities by the Society that it was the owner of the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­320­

 building where B.Ed institute was to be established.   It was

 rather clearly mentioned in the affidavit that it would be run

 from the rented premises. As regards the report given by Dr.

 . R.K. Behl and Dr.M.L.Makhija, it is averred that the contents

 of   the   report   were   not   known   to   the   Society   and   it   never

 represented   to   them   that   the   Society   is   the   owner   of   the

 building where classes  were to be run.  Copy of the 99 years

 lease deed executed before the Sub Registrar, Hamirpur, has

 been annexed as Annexure R2/B.  

 436 The   institute   was   inspected   by   the   NCTE   (at

 pages 3155­3157) on 13.06.2018 wherein  a specific note has

 been appended that the management has already applied for

 shifting   college   to   a   newly   constructed   campus   with   all

 building facilities vide letter dated 30.05.2018.   However, in

 addition to the aforesaid, we find another  report of NCTE (at

 pages 4008­4015) wherein  it is pointed out that as far as the

 infrastructural facilities are concerned, it is observed that the

 total required built up area for B.Ed(100 intake) and D.El.Ed

 (50   intake)   is   3500   square   metres     as   per   NCTE   norms,

 whereas, the institute is running from a rented building, the

 built   up   area   whereof   is   3813.85   square   metres.   However,

 Building Completion Certificate is not enclosed.   Apart from

 that, only instructional   deficiencies have been pointed out. ­321­

 In   addition   thereto,   certain   other   minor   discrepancies   that

 too after viewing the C.D. have been raised to which much

 credence cannot be attached to. . 437 In   the   supplementary   affidavit   filed   by   the

 institution (at pages 4946­4966),  it is stated that the Society

 has   already   constructed   more   than   3000   square   metres   of

 building space in its new campus at mauza Bal Bhalwalan

 near   Salasi,   Tehsil   and   District   Hamirpur   on   Khasra   Nos. 57/2, 61/2, 58/1 out of which about 2050 square metres  of

 the building work is at the final stage of finishing.  This place

 is   at   a   distance   of   3.5   to   4   kilometers     from   the   existing

 campus at Hira Nagar, Hamirpur.   The Society undertakes to

 shift   its   educational   activities   to   the   new   campus   in   the

 ensuing academic session  2018­19 and has written  a letter

 dated 30.05.2018 to the NCTE seeking permission to shift to

 the new campus, from the ensuing session. 438 Since,   the   institution   is   to   start   its   academic

 session   from   the   new   campus   from   the   academic   session

 2018­19, we have no doubt in our mind that the permission

 to run these courses would obviously be given by the NCTE

 after   satisfying   itself.   Therefore,   no   further   orders   in   this

 regard need to be passed. ­322­

 D a) 3: Trisha   College   of   Education     for   B.Ed.   and  
 M.Ed., Thain, P.O. Jol Sappar, Hamirpur. D a) 4: Trisha   College   of   Education     for   D.El.Ed.,  
 Thain, P.O. Jol Sappar, Hamirpur. . 439 The   SIT   in   its   Progress   Report     No.5   (at   pages

 106­114)   after   scrutiny   of   the   records   and   physical

 inspection has concluded as follows:­

 "(i) It   has   come   to   light   that   Shri   Rajeev   Sharma,

 Secretary,   Trisha   Shikshan   Society   submitted   two
 affidavits   on   6/9/2007   and   27/11/2007   to   NCTE
 along with his application   to NCTE  seeking grant  of

 recognition for additional intake of 100 seats for B.Ed

 course.     In   his   affidavit   dated   06/9/2007   he   had
 mentioned   the   built   up   area   available   with   them   as
 2326.02   sq.   mtrs   whereas   in   the   affidavit     dated

 27/11/2007,   the   built   up   area   had   been   mentioned
 as   2426   sq.   mtrs.   The   total   area   mentioned   in   both

 these affidavits was 5587  sq. mtrs.   Subsequently a
 similar affidavit  had been given by Shri N.K. Sharma,

 President   of   the   Society   on   15/2/2008   wherein     the
 total area had been mentioned  as 6745 sq. mtrs and

 built   up   area   as   2426.02   sq.   mtrs.   It   would   be
 worthwhile to mention here that the existing plan of the
 building of the said college prepared by Shri Ashwani
 Kalia, Architect,  the total covered area of 2326.02 sq.
 mtrs had been arrived by including a Volley­ball court
 area  of 210 sq. mtrs and open terrace of 200 sq. mtrs.
 It   may   thus   be   been   seen   that   the   contradictory
 versions   had   been   given     by   Shri   N.K.     Sharma,
 President, Shri Rajeev Sharma, Secretary of the Society ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­323­

 and   Shri   Ashwani   Kalia,   Architect.   Even   the   two
 inspectors of   NCTE namely Dr. S.K. Mangal and Shri
 S.P.  Singh in their inspection  report dated 15/2/2008
 had   mentioned   the   total   area   as   6745   and   built   up

 . area as 2326.2 sq. mtrs.  During physical inspection of

 the   said   institute   Shri   Jagdev     Singh   Patwari   of   the
 said   area   has   submitted   a   written   report   that   the

 institute had been built on a piece of land measuring
 2832 sq. mtrs.  However, he has further mentioned in
 his report that the Society   had also purchased land

 measuring 4057 sq. mtrs which is situated across the
 road   and   was   lying   vacant.   Shri   Sanjeev   Kumar,
 Junior   Engineer,   HP   PWD,   Sub­Division,   Hamirpur,

 conducted   actual   measurements   of   the   total   covered

 area   and   submitted   a   written   report   that   the   total
 covered area as on date was 2086.18 sq. mtrs.
 The aforesaid facts would go to show that the Society

 had obtained recognition from the NCTE on the basis of
 affidavits   and   existing   building   plan   containing   false

 information about the total built up area which they do
 not have even till date. (ii) The institution is in pathetic condition.  There are huge
 deficiencies   in   infrastructure   as   well   as   instructional

 areas." 440 It   has   been   prayed   that   a   criminal   case   be

 ordered   to   be   registered   by   either   H.P.   Vigilance   &   Anti

 Corruption Bureau or by the CBI against Shri N.K. Sharma,

 President, Shri Rajeev Sharma, Secretary of Trisha Shikshan

 Society and Shri Ashwani Kalia, Architect, who had prepared ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­324­

 the existing building plan and others.  Further, directions be

 issued to NCTE  not to allow any further admissions to any of

 the courses till the institution fulfills the norms laid down by . NCTE in the year 2014. 441 The   institute   has   filed   its   affidavit   (at   pages

 1759­1831)   wherein   it   is   averred   that   the   institute   has

 requisite infrastructures to run both B.Ed and JBT courses

 as   the   area   available     with   it   is   more   than   4000   square

 metres. However, we need not to go into this question  as in

 CWP   No.1102   of   2018,  titled   as  H.P.   Private   B.Ed. Colleges Welfare Association versus National Council for

 Teacher Education and others, decided on 14.09.2018, we

 have   already   held   that   the   premises   running   these   two

 courses can be shared and, therefore,  the NCTE has no right

 to   insist   upon   the   area   of   3500   square   metres     and   even

 otherwise, admittedly this institution is having  built­up area

 3503.89   square   metres   for   two   basic   units   of   50   students

 each   of   B.Ed   and   one   basic   unit   of   JBT,   which   in   our

 considered   opinion,   is   otherwise     more   than   sufficient     for

 any of these courses.  In addition to the above,  we find that

 the categorical  stand of the institution otherwise is that it is

 having area of 2832 square metres of land in one block and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:51 :::HCHP ­325­

 another 4057 square  metres of land in another block across

 the   road.     The   built­up   area   over   these   blocks   is   3503.89

 square   metres.     Therefore,   also,   we   really   do   not   find   any

 . reason for not permitting the institute  to run the courses as

 are being run by it.  Ordered accordingly. D a)5: Shiva   College   of   Education,   Abdhanighat,  
 Ghumarwin, Bilaspur. 87­94) after scrutiny of the records and physical inspection

 "After   inspection   by   the   SIT,   deficiencies   have   been
 observed in the land area as well as the covered area.
 Initially land comprising Khasra No.197/1 measuring

 6­2   bighas   was   taken   on   30   years   lease   from   Shri
 Bhagat Ram (father of Shri Purushotam Sharma) vide
 lease   deed dated   01/02­9­2006.   On the same day,

 another   piece   of   land     measuring   0­16   bighas

 comprising   Khasra No.660/1 was also taken by the
 Society   on   30   years   lease   from   Shri   Purushotam

 Sharma.   It  also came to light that  the land lease of
 Khasra     No.197/1   was     subsequently   cancelled     by
 Shri Bhagat Ram without the knowledge of the NCTE.
 However, the B.Ed College had been built on Khasra
 No. 660/1 which is measuring 602 sq. mtrs. Only.  The
 other piece of land i.e. Khasra No.197/1 is situated  at
 a distance of 1.5 K.Ms away from Khasra No.660/1 at
 which the College exists at present. ­326­

 It  also came  to notice that  Shri  Purushotam  Sharma,
 Secretary, of the Society had given an affidavit  dated
 09/02/2007   in which  he   had  claimed  the   total   land
 area  available to the Society as 5195.20 sq. mtrs and

 . built up area of 713.33 sq. mtrs.   In the 2 nd  affidavit

 submitted by Shri Purushotam Sharma on 13/7/2007
 for   recognition     of   B.Ed   course   for   100   seats,   Shri

 Purushotam Sharma claimed built up area of 1554.33
 sq. mtrs. In yet another   affidavit   dated 30/6/2009
 for additional intake  of 100 seats in B.Ed Course, Shri

 Purushotam Sharma claimed built up area of 2090 sq.
 mtrs.     However,   actual     measurements   carried   out
 during the course of  inspection by the PWD reveal that

 the total land area was 602 sq. mtrs with a built up

 area of 1737.30 sq. mtrs which goes to show that a
 false   and incorrect   affidavit   dated 30/6/2009 was
 filed by Shri Purushotam Sharma to claim  approval for

 additional 100 seats for B.Ed Course. Apart   from   the   aforesaid   deficiencies,   certain
 essentials  like   Seminar  Room   was  not   available   and

 other   accommodation     like     Multi­purpose   hall   was
 found to be inadequate to accommodate 400 students." 443 On the basis of the aforesaid conclusions, it has

 been prayed  that a criminal case be ordered to be registered

 either   by   the   CBI   or   State   Vigilance     &   Anti   Corruption

 Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh,   against   Shri   Purushotam

 Sharma, Secretary, Shiva Educational Society and unknown

 others   for   obtaining   approval   for   additional   100   seats   for ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­327­

 B.Ed   Course   from   NCTE   on   the   basis   of

 misrepresentation/false   information   submitted     through

 affidavit     regarding     infrastructural   facilities   available   with

 . them.     Further,   directions   be   given   to   NCTE   to   seek

 compliance   of   other   deficiencies/shortages   as   pointed   out

 above   before     allowing   admissions   to   the   next   session   i.e.

 2017­18. 444 The   institute   had,   initially,   controverted   the

 report   of   the   SIT   by   filing   response   (at   pages   176­199). However, we need not to refer the same in detail in view of

 the inspection conducted by the VT members on 12.06.2018

 in   pursuance   to   the   orders   passed   by   this   Court.     In   its

 report, the only deficiency as pointed out  by the VT, is that

 the institute is having 2090 square metres as against 3000

 square metres of built­up area  which is not sufficient as per

 the NCTE norms.   At the same time, it has been mentioned

 that the new building which is under construction cannot be

 taken   into   account   as   the   same   is   on   the   other   land. However,   the   report   of   the   NCTE   is   controverted   by   the

 institution by filing a supplementary affidavit (at pages 5870­

 5917)   wherein   it   is   pointed   out   that   the   Society   had   been

 granted approval   to run the college in the year 2007 after

 having   verified   that   it   fulfills   all   the   required   codal ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­328­

 formalities. The Society is, otherwise, the owner of the land

 measuring 5­07 bighas.  It has been transferred in the name

 of   the   Society   after   obtaining   requisite   permission     under

 . Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act.  The

 construction   work   is   in   progress   after   the   maps   were   duly

 approved   by   the   competent   authority   and   two   floors   are

 almost   complete   and   the   remaining   construction   would   be

 completed   within   six   months.   Since,   the   institution   was

 established in the year 2007, therefore,  it is not required  to

 comply   with   the   norms   and   regulations   of   2014   and   for

 additional intake of 100 students, the built­up area  is to be

 increased by 500 square metres and the requirement of land

 will not apply to the institution. 445 Apart   from   the   above,   after   completion   of   the

 complex   at   the   new   site,   there   would,   otherwise,   be   no

 deficiency   with   regard   to   requirement   of   land   of   built­up

 structure. 446 We have considered the rival claims and are of

 the   considered   view   that   since   the   institute   is   likely   to

 complete its   building within six months, the courses being

 currently   run   by   it   ought   to   be   permitted,   with   a   clear

 understanding that after March 31, 2019, these courses shall

 be shifted to the new campus which shall fully comply with ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­329­

 the norms of 2014. Ordered accordingly. Needless to say that

 at the time of shifting to the new campus, the NCTE is free to

 carry out inspection of the new campus. . Db)1:  K.C. Group of R & PI, Faculty of Engineering, 
 Pandogra Uparla, District Una. Db)2: K.C. Group of R &PI Faculty of Management, 
 Pandoga Uparla, District Una. Dc)1: K.C. Group of Pharmaceutical Sciencies, 
 Pandoga, Uparla, District Una. Dd)1 447 Uparla,District Una. r to
 K.C.   Group   of   R&PI   Polytechnic,   Pandoga  

 The   conclusions   arrived   at     by   the   SIT   in

 progress reports No. 2 and 3 at that point of time have been

 enumerated as under:­

 It may thus be seen that the first inspection carried out
 on   30.4.2009   with   the   objective   of   assessing   the

 feasibility   of   issuing   a   NOC   in   favour   of   the   said

 society to start the various   institutes, the Committee
 observed that only some columns had been raised on

 the ground floor for the Engg. and technical block with
 a   carpet   area   of   1600   sq.   mts.   approximately.   The
 Committee  further pointed  out  that  construction  work
 upto plinth level has been done in case of MBA block
 whereas the construction work in respect of Pharmacy
 Block  has   not  yet   been  started.    The   committee   also
 observed   that   supply   order   for   some   machinery   and
 equipments had been placed but no advertisement for
 recruitment   of  staff  had   been   issued.  The  Committee ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­330­

 was   finally     of   the   view   that   th   society   was   at   the
 beginning   stage   of   the   construction   for   two
 programmes   i.e.   Engg.   and   MBA   whereas   the
 construction of Pharmacy block was yet to be started. . The committee concluded that the NOC for 2009­2010

 session   could   only   be   issued   after   verification   of
 infrastructure   constructed   by   the   Society   was

 completed and other norms and conditions   of AICTE
 and affiliated university were also met. 
 It   appears   that   the   K.C.   Society   then   approached

 AICTE for approval of the various programmes and an
 Expert   Visting   Committee   constituted   by   AICTE
 conducted   an   inspection     on     25.6.2009   for   the

 recommendations   of   State   government   for   240   engg. seats  and 60 MBA seats. In this inspection report, it
 was clearly mentioned that the buildings were under
 construction. It was also observed that MBA block was

 under construction and that equipments were partially
 installed for the said course.   AICTE ordered another

 inspection on 10.7.2009 i.e. after a period of about 15
 days in which one of the inspecting officers namely Sh. B.S. Sohi, Director UIET Punjab University, Chandigarh
 was   common.   Surprisingly,   no   deficiencies   were

 pointed   out     in   the   said   report   and   the
 recommendations   were   made   for   the   approval   of
 session 2010­11. It is highly improbable that buildings
 which were under construction as on 25.6.2009 were
 completed   on   10.7.2009   and   the   equipments
 purchased   and   installed.   The     AICTE   HO   issued
 approval   on   22.7.2009   for   240   Engg.   seats   and   60
 MBA seats for the academic year 2009­10 subject to
 the schedule prescribed by the State government and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­331­

 affiliated University for the admission of students for
 the   said   academic   year   failing   which   the   appproval
 would  be   valid  for  academic   year   2010­11.   The  first
 inspection for pharmacy was carried out on 30.5.2010

 . in which several glaring deficiencies  were pointed out

 and assuch the LOA was not recommended by AICTE,
 NW RO Chandigarh vide their report dated 8.6.2010. However, the society filed an appeal on 17.6.2010 and
 appellate committee approved the issuance of LOA on
 13.7.2010. During   the   years   2009   to   2015,   a   number   of   other
 inspections,   were   carried   out     at   the   instance   of
 Himachal   Pradesh   University   and   HP   Technical

 University   but   in   every   inspection   several   major

 deficiencies were found in the said integrated complex
 in respect of each discipline. A surprise visit was made on 4.6.2012 by an Expert

 Visiting   Committee   at   the   instance   of   CBI,   CVO,
 Ministry of HRD and CVC. In this report, the Committee

 especially reported that the boundary walls were not
 ready   for   use,   civil/electrical   work   not   completed,

 boundary walls not made, stock registers of laboratory
 equipment,   computers,   system   software,   application

 software, printers etc. not presented, five programmes
 running   in   the   same   campus,   boys/girls   common
 rooms,  cafeteria,  stationary  stoers   not   as   per  norms,
 class   rooms,   tutorial   rooms,   labs   for   UG/PG   less   in
 numbers,   incomplete   and   not   as   per   norms,   seminar
 halls   do   not   exist,   no   power   connection   in   the
 laboratory,   less   equipments,   no   boundary   wall,   no
 facility for handicapped, no drinking water facility, no
 furniture available in Engg. & Tech. and Management ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­332­

 programme   rooms,   deficiencies   in   computerization
 facilities,   programme   level   faculty   not   shown,
 deficiency exists in administrative  areas and that the
 existing   programmes   were   running   in   a   polytechnic

 . college.   This   Committee   did   not   recommend

 continuation   of   the   existing   courses   because   all   the
 buildings  were  under   construction  and   civil/electrical

 works incomplete.   Based on the said report, a show
 cause notice was issued by AICTE on 24.7.2012 as to
 why   it   should   not   be   considered     that   AICTE   was

 misled   by   the   Institute   by   giving   manipulated/false
 information,   violation   of   terms   and   conditions   in   the
 letter   of   approval   and   appropriate   actions   including

 withdrawal   of   approval   be   not   initiated   against   the

 institution   for   non­observance   of   the   terms   and
 conditions   of   approval   as   also   for   misleading     the
 AICTE by submitting  false information.  In response to

 the said show cause notice K.C. Society submitted a
 reply   dated   6.9.2012   wherein   they   claimed   that   the

 buildings   were   complete   in   all   respects   and   some
 photographs were also attached. From   the   various   facts   and   evidence   available   on
 record in the light  of different inspections carried out

 by   different   committees   appointed   by   different
 agencies, it  is  established  that  K.C.  Educational  and
 Social Welfare Society had mis represented about the
 completion   of   buildings   as   well   as   the   fulfillment   of
 other norms laid down by the AICTE, HPTU, PCI and
 HP   Technical   Education   Board   and   the   various
 members of the committees connived   with them and
 by   abuse   of   their   official   position   as   public   servants
 submitted false inspection reports to AICTE about the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:52 :::HCHP ­333­

 availability   of   all   the   staff,   equipments,   machinery,
 furniture,   books,   journals,   accommodation,   toilets,
 drinking water facility, boundary wall, approach road
 and other essentialities as per the norms laid down by . the   various   agencies   of   Government   of   India   and

 government  of  Himachal  Pradesh and  other  agencies
 and   thus   cheated   them   in   the   matter   of   obtaining

 approval/affiliation   for   running   these   institutions.
 However, a final recommendation in the matter about
 registration of a case or otherwise shall be made only

 after a physical verification of the site and examination
 of   the   various   documents   available   with   the
 management,   which   will   be   attended   to   shortly.   The

 final recommendation in this regard shall be made in

 the next progress report to be submitted to the Hon'ble
 High Court of Himachal Pradesh. 448 Thereafter, in progress report No.3 on the basis

 of physical  inspection and verification  of the record, it was

 concluded as under:­ 

 The Society was formed on 18/10/2008 and registered on
 24/11/2008.   Further,     on   08.12.2008   an   Essentiality

 Certificate for the purchase of land in Himachal Pradesh to
 start   Diploma/Degree   level   institutions   was   given   by
 Director(TE), Sundernagar (HP). Also on 27/12/2008, the
 Financial     Commissioner/Secretary   (Revenue)   granted
 permission   to   the   Society   to   purchase   land   for   the
 establishment of educational institutions. In pursuance of
 the aforesaid permission, the society purchased 22 acres
 of land in Village and Post Office Pandoga Uparla, Tehsil
 and   District   Una   H.P.   on   29/12/2008.   The   Patwari   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­334­

 village Pandoga issued a certificate on 29/12/2008 itself
 that   the   land   was   outside   the   notified   area.   The   Asstt.
 Town Planner, Una also issued  a No Objection Certificate
 on   23/01/2009   that   the   land   did   not   fall   within   the

 . jurisdiction of Town & Country Planning Department, H.P.

 It may thus be seen that all these actions took place with a
 lightning speed and all the formalities were completed in

 less than a months' time. 2. The   Society   entered   into   an   agreement   dated
 04/02/2009 with M/s Daljit Singh & Sons, Ludhiana and

 another   agreement   dated   23/02/2009   with   M/s   United
 Construction Co. Chandigarh for the construction  work of
 the integrated  complex. It  is seen   from  the various  bills

 submitted by M/s Daljit Singh & Sons that the construction

 of the Polytechnic College, Administration Block, Workshop
 of Polytechnic College Block and Hotel Management Block
 was continuing till 30/03/2011. 3.  In the first inspection carried out on 30/04/2009 by
 a Committee constituted by Director (TE) with the objective

 of assessing the feasibility of issuing a NOC in favour of
 the   said   Society   to   start   the   various   institutes,   the

 Committee   observed   that   only   some   columns   had   been
 raised   on   the   ground   floor   for   the   Engineering   and

 Technical   block   with   a   carpet   area   of   1600   Sq.   meter
 approximately.   The   Committee   further   pointed   out   that
 construction  work  up   to   plinth   level   had   been   done   in   a
 case   of   MBA   block   whereas   the   construction   work   in
 respect   of   Pharmacy   Block   had   not   yet   stated.   The
 Committee   also   observed   that   supply   order   for   some
 machinery   and   equipment   had   been   issued.   The
 Committee was finally  of the view that Society was at the
 beginning   stage   of   the   Construction   for   two   programmes ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­335­

 i.e.   Engineering   and   MBA   whereas   the   construction   of
 Pharmacy   block   was   yet   to   be   started.   The   Committee
 concluded that the NOC for the session 2009­2010 could
 only   be   issued   after   verification   of   infrastructure     being

 . constructed by the Society was completed and other norms

 and conditions of AICTE and affiliated university were also
 met. Another Expert Committee conducted inspection of the

 proposed   Polytechnic   on   12/6/2009   but   after   inspection
 found it difficult to firmly recommend the issuance of LOA
 to the Polytechnic for the session 2009­2010 on the various

 grounds mentioned in the reprot. 4. Another   inspection   of   the   said   Polytechnic   was
 carried   out   on   30/06/2009.   This   Inspection   Committee

 also pointed out various discrepancies and recommended

 that minimum basic construction for the first year was not
 sufficient for the five courses and the finishing work of the
 workshops   and   labs   was   in   progress   but   the   available

 infrastructure was sufficient to run only three Engineering
 Diploma   Courses   for   which   the   finishing   work   was     in

 progress   and   may   be   completed   in   a   week's   time.   The
 Committee  recommended for consideration of the  case  of

 approval for three courses at that stage. The report of the
 inspection   committee   was   considered   by   the   State   Level

 Committee in its 16th meeting held on 03/07/2009, and it
 was recommended that the letter of approval  be issued by
 NWRO  AICTE   Chandigarh   for   running  three   courses  i.e.
 Mechanical   Engineering,     Electrical   Engineering   and
 Electronics & Communication Engineering for the session
 2009­2010.   In   view   of   this   recommendation   RO/AICTE
 Chandigarh     granted   approval   to   K.C   Polytechnic   vide
 letter dated 04/07/2009 for an annual intake of 60 seats
 each   in   three   disciplines   namely,   Electrical   Engineering, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­336­

 Electronics   &   Communication   Engineering.,   and
 Mechanical Engineering for the academic year 2009­2010.
 Consequently, the HP Takniki Shiskha Board. Dharmasals
 granted  affiliation   to  the  Polytechnic  on 15­19/10/2009

 . on yearly basis for a period of three years after conducting

 the   inspection   to   the   entire   satisfaction     of   the   Board
 regarding availability/creation of additional infrastructure

 as per AICTE norms. 5.   The   3rd  inspection   of   K.C.   Polytechnic,   Una   was
 carried  out  on 25/07/2009  by a committee  to  verify the

 various   infrastructure   facilities   and   compliance   of   the
 conditions laid   down   in Letter   of   Intent   issued   by   RO
 AICTE   Chandigarh   vide   letter   dated   25/04/2009.   The

 Committee opined that the institution had made progress

 in providing the infrastructure facilities and setting up of
 equipment and most of the deficiencies had been removed
 except for the Chemistry Lab for which   the work was in

 progress and for which an assurance had been given by
 the  Chairman  for its  completion  before  stipulated  period. The   Committee   recommended   the   case   of   approval   to   be
 considered for remaining two diploma courses in Civil and

 Computer   Engineering   for   the   current   Academic   Session.
 However, the SLC after considering the Inspection report in

 its   17th  meeting   held   on   03/08/2009,   decided   not   to
 recommend any of the additional courses. 6.   It   appears   that   simultaneously   the   Society   then
 approached AICTE for approval of the various programmes
 and   an   Expert   Visiting   Committee   constituted   by   AICTE
 conducted   an   inspection   on   25/06/2009   for   the
 recommendations of State Government for 240 Engineering
 seats   and   60   MBA   seats.   In   its   inspection   report   it   was
 clearly   mentioned   that   the   buildings   were   under ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­337­

 construction,   equipment   were   not   installed   in   place   and
 workshop was under construction. It was   also observed
 that   MBA   block   was   under   construction   and   that
 equipment   was   partially   installed   for   the   said   course. . AICTE ordered another inspection on 10/07/2009 i.e. after

 a period of about 15 days in which one of the inspecting
 officers   namely,   Shri.   B.S   Sohi,   Director   UIET   Punjab

 University,   Chandigarh   was   common,.   Surprisingly,   no
 deficiencies   were   pointed   out   in   the   said   report   and   the
 recommendations  were  made  for the approval of session

 2010­2011. It is highly   improbable that buildings which
 were   under   construction   as   on   25/06/2009   were
 completed   on   10/7/2009   and   the   equipment   purchased

 and installed. The AICTE issued   approval on 22/7/2009

 for   240   Engineering   seats   and   60   MBA   seats   for   the
 academic   year   2­009­2010   subject   to   the   schedule
 prescribed   by   the   State   Government   and   affiliating

 University   for   the   admission   of   students   for   the   said
 academic   year   falling   which   the   approval   was   valid   for

 academic   year   2010­2011.   The   first   inspection   for
 Pharmacy   was   carried   out   on   30/05/2009   in   which

 several glaring deficiencies were pointed out  and as such
 the   letter   of   Approval     (LOA)   was   not     recommended   by

 AICTE,   NW   RO   Chandigarh   vide   their   report   dated
 08/06/2010.   However,   the   Society   filed   an   appeal   on
 17/06/2010   and   the   Appellate   Committee   approved   the
 issuance   of LOA on 13/07/2010. During the years 2009
 to 2015, a number of other inspections were carried out at
 the   instance   of   Himachal   Pradesh   University   and   HP
 Technical University but in every inspection several major
 deficiencies were found in the said integrated complex in
 respect of each discipline.   All these deficiencies continue ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­338­

 to   exist   as   observed   by   the   SIT   during   its   inspection   in
 January, 2016. 7.   A   surprise   inspection   was   conducted   on
 04/06/2012   by   an   Expert   Visiting   Committee   at   the

 . instance of CBI, CVO (Ministry of HRD) and CVC. In this

 report,   the   Committee   specifically   reported   that   the
 buildings was not ready for use, civil/electrical work   not

 completed, boundary  walls    not  made, stock registers  of
 laboratory   equipment,   computers,   system   software
 application   software,   printers   etc,   not   presented,   five

 programmes   running   in   the   same   campus,   boys   girls,
 common   rooms,   cafeteria,   stationary   stores   not   as   per
 norms, class rooms, tutorial rooms, labs for UG/PG less in

 numbers, incomplete and not as per norms, seminar hall

 do  not  exist, no  power connection in the laboratory, less
 equipment, no boundary wall, no facility for handicapped,
 no   drinking   water   facility,   no   furniture   available   in

 Engineering   &   Technical   and   Management   programme
 level   faculty     not   shown,   deficiency   existed   in

 administrative   areas   and   that   the   existing   programmes
 were running in a  polytechnic college.  This Committee did

 not     recommend   continuation   of   the   existing   courses
 because   all   the     buildings   were   under   construction   and

 civil/electrical works incomplete. Based on the said report,
 a   Show   Cause   Notice   was   issued   by   AICTE   on
 24/07/2012  as to  why it should not  be considered that
 AICTE   was   misled   by   the   Institute   by   giving
 manipulated/false   information,   violation   of   terms   and
 conditions in the letter of approval and appropriate actions
 including withdrawal of approval be not  initiated  against
 the   institution   for   non­observance     of   the   terms   and
 conditions of approval as also for misleading the AICTE by ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­339­

 submitting false information. In response  to the said Show
 Cause   Notice,   K.C.   Society   submitted     a   reply   dated
 06/09/2012 wherein they claimed that the buildings were
 complete in all respects. . 8. The   Society     also   submitted   an   application   dated

 20/11/2009 to Director( Higher Education) HP for grant of
 NOC   for   BBA,   BCA   and   PGDCA   programmes   at   K.C.

 Institute of Management. Along   with this application the
 Society     submitted   a   certificate     dated   22/10/2009
 purportedly issued by Sh. Sunil Mahajan of of M/s Sunil

 Mahajan   &   Associates,   Architect,   Chandigarh,   certifying
 that   the   building   of   K.C   Institute   of   Management   was
 complete   in   all   respects.   Further,   an   affidavit   dated

 17/11/2009 sworn by Sh. Prem Pal Gandhi, Chairman of

 the  Society to  the  effect  that  all  the  documents  attached
 with the NOC application for starting the said courses were
 true and   correct to the best of his knowledge and belief

 goes   to   prove   his   knowledge   of   submission   of   aforesaid
 forged document. Sh. Sunil Mahajan denied to have issued

 such a certificate. 9.   The Society did not obtain No Objection Certificate

 (NOC) from the Government  of Himachal  Pradesh   which
 was an essential   requirement before affiliation from HPC

 Shimla.  It would be worthwhile to mention here that while
 applying for affiliation with HPU it was misrepresented by
 the  institute that the concurrence of the State Government
 had   been   obtained   whereas   only   a   copy   of   letter   dated
 08/12/2008   issued   by     Director(   Technical   Education),
 Sundernagr   (HP)   enclosing   therewith   an   Essentiality
 Certificate   for   the   purchase   of   the   land   to   start
 Diplama/Degree   level   institutions   at   village   &   P.O.
 Pandoga Uparla, Tehsil & District, Una was submitted by ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:53 :::HCHP ­340­

 the insitute to the HPU for the purpose of affiliation of the
 integrated campus. It has come to light that K.C. Group of
 Research   and   Professional   Institute   actually   applied   for
 NOC on 07/03/2013 to Secretary (Technical Education) HP

 . and   a   NOC   (ex­post­facto)   to   start   Engineering   and

 Management     Classes   for   the   session   2009­2010   was
 granted by Special Secretary (TE), Government of Himachal

 Pradesh   on   09/07/2013.   Thus   the   Society   started     the
 various institutions in 2009­2010 without the No Objection
 Certificate from the State Government which was granted

 ex­post­facto only on 09/07/2013. 10.   On   the   basis   of   the   various   facts   and   evidence
 available on record in the light of the different inspections

 carried out by different committees appointed by different

 agencies and SIT, it is  established  that K.C. Educational
 and Social Welfare   Society had  misrepresented/mislead
 and   submitted   false   information/documents   about     the

 completion   of   building   as   well   as   the   fulfillment   of   other
 norms laid   down   by the   AICTE,   HP     TU,   PCI   and   HP

 Technical   Education   Board   and   various   members   of   the
 Committees     connived   with   them   and   by   abuse   of   their

 official   position   as   public   servants   submitted   false
 inspection reports to AICTE about the availability of all the

 staff,   equipment,   machinery,   furniture,   books,   journals,
 accommodation,  toilets,  drinking  water  facility,  boundary
 wall,   approach   road   and   other   essentialities   as   per   the
 norms laid down by the various agencies of Government of
 India   and   Government   of   Himachal   Pradesh   and   thus
 cheated   them   in   the   matter   of   obtaining
 approval/affiliation for running these institutions. Not only
 this,   even   forged   documents   were   submitted   to   obtain
 approval from the Government of  HP. ­341­

 449 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that ­

 . (i) a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered

 either   by   the   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anit   Corruption
 Bureau   (HP)   against     the   K.C.   Educational   and   Social

 Welfare Society,  Pandoga Uparla, Una (HP) Sh. Prem Pal
 Gandhi, Chairman of the Society, Dr. S.P. Singh the then
 Regional   Officer,   NWRO,   AICTE,   Chandigarh,   Dr.   B.S.

 Sohi,   the   then   Director   of   UIET   Punjab   University,
 Chandigarh,   Dr.   K.S.   Kasana,   Professor   &   HOD,
 Mechanical   Engineering,   NIT,   Kurukshetra,       Dr   R.K.

 Chauhan,   Professor   &   HOD,   Computer   Science

 Department, Kurukshetra University and unknown others
 under   the   relevant   provisions   of   Indian   Penal   Code   and
 the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. (ii) The   result   of   students   admitted   to   various   courses
 and passed out from the various faculties of K.C. Group of

 Institutions for the period 2009­2015 is complied below:­

 B. Tech Course

 Year/ Batch Students Students
 appeared Passed out 2009­2013 Batch 107 20 2010­2014 Batch 177 141 2011­2015 Batch 151 95 2. B. Pharma Course
 

 Year/ Batch Students Students   Passed
 appeared out ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:54 :::HCHP ­342­ 2010­2014 10 05 Batch 2011­2015 25 19 Batch

 . 3. D. Pharma Course

 Year/ Batch Students Students   Passed
 appeared out 2010­2012 09 01 Batch 2011­2013 07 02 Batch
 2012­2014 r 02 00 Batch 2013­2015 23 14 Batch 4. Diploma in Engineering

 Year/Batch Students Students   Passed

 appeared out 2009­2012 Batch 101 21 2010­2013 Batch 177 37 2011­2014 Batch 183 49 2012­2015 Batch 142 27 The   above     figures   would   show   that   the   quality   of   the
 education imparted by this Group of Institutions    to the
 students   admitted   to   various   courses   was   miserable.
 Since   the   K.C.   Group   of   Institutions   lacks   basic
 infrastructure   to   run   Engineering,   Management   and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:54 :::HCHP ­343­

 Pharmacy courses, no further admission may be ordered
 to be allowed till all the   deficiencies pointed out by the
 inspecting   committees   and   SIT   from   time   to   time   for
 various   courses   are   rectified.   It   is,   therefore,   further

 . prayed   that   directions   may   kindly   be   issued   to   AICTE,

 Pharmacy   Council   of   India   and   the   State   of   Himachal
 Pradesh not to grant any further approval to K.C Group of

 institutions   till   they   fulfill   the   minimum
 requirements/norms laid down  by them in this regard. 450 These institutes were inspected by the VT pursuant

 to the order passed by this Court and in its first report (pages

 2667­2693) only the following shortcomings were found:­ 1. Books and titles in the library should be increased. 2. Latest   computers   with   license   software   must   be
 procured. 3. Subscribe latest volume of journals. 4. No LCD projector in the seminar hall. 451 The VT  also  inspected   its polytechnic college  and

 vide its report (pages 2867­2886), no significant deficiency was

 found. 452 To  this report,  the  institutions  not only  filed  reply

 (pages 5056­5224)   but also filed reply qua the pharmaceutical

 sciences   and   polytechnic   courses   being   run   by   them,   wherein

 great   emphasis   has   been   laid   to   the   effect   that   there   is   no ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:54 :::HCHP ­344­

 shortcoming   in   these   institutions,   therefore,   they   should   be

 permitted to continue. 453 We   find   that   there   is   yet  another  report   regarding

 . institutions of management and technology at pages 5933­5937. There is a supplementary affidavit filed on behalf of the Assistant

 Director, AICTE in compliance to the orders passed by this Court

 on 4.7.2018, wherein it was averred that the inspection of the

 institutes   had   been   conducted   after   taking   into   account   the

 present  condition   and   latest  norms  of  the  AICTE.    To    similar

 effect     is   an   affidavit     in   the   case   pertaining   to   the   K.C.

 Pharmaceutical Sciences (pages 5928­5938) and K.C. Group of

 R&PI   Polytechnic   (pages   5923­5927),   however,   it   would   be

 necessary   to   refer   to   the   latest   supplementary   affidavit­cum­

 undertaking   on behalf of the institution by Mr. Hitesh Gandhi,

 wherein it is stated that the institution      has purchased 1577

 books   and  along  with  that   bills   of   such   books   have   also  been

 attached.   The   institution   has   purchased     library   management

 system   software   at   the   cost   of   Rs.35,000/­,   language   lab

 software   amounting   to   Rs.36,000/­,   DVD   writer,   sound

 speakers, USB headset with Mic and e­journals for each  library

 amounting to Rs.91,800/­. It has carried out necessary repairs

 in the building and has also purchased certain electrical material

 and   receipts   of   these   have   been   appended   with   the   affidavit. ­345­

 However, importantly, the Institution has pointed out  that there

 is huge shortage  in admission  in all branches, which is making

 it extremely difficult to comply with all the norms and taking this

 . into account, the Institution has also applied for reduction of the

 seats/intake   of   the   students   in   MBA   from   90   to   60   and

 polytechnic   institute   has   also   applied   for   the   reduction   of

 students in Mechanical Branch from 120 to 60, civil engineering

 from 120 to 60 and in B. Pharmacy from 100 to 60 students. Not

 only   this,   the   Institution   has   also   applied   for   closure     of

 Electronics   and   Communication   Branch   and   UG   second   year

 direct   Mechanical   Engineering,   Computer   Sciences   and

 Engineering   and   in   polytechnic,   automobile   engineering   and

 Electronics   and   communication   branch   and   M.   Pharmacy.     It

 has been stated that for the last two years, there has been zero

 admission in the above mentioned courses. 454 Obviously,   after   closure   of   so   many   courses,   as

 aforesaid and with the current intake, it cannot be doubted  that

 the Institution is having adequate infrastructural facility and is,

 therefore,  permitted  to  continue   to  run   the  courses  as  already

 being run by it. ­346­

 Db)3:  Dev Bhoomi Institute of Engineering and 
 Technology, Chandpur, Haroli, Una. Dd)2:  Dev Bhoomi Polytehnic, Chandpur, Haroli. . 455 The SIT in its progress report No. 4( pages 53­76)

 had  found   a  number of  shortcomings   and  on   the   basis   of   the

 same had concluded as follows:­ (a)  The   built   up  area  of   the   Polytechnic  and  Engineering
 College was deficient by 9054.50  Sq. meters. (b) The   requirements   of   various   administrative   areas,
 amenities and common facilities were not available as per
 AICTE norms, (c) The   infrastructural   facilities   of   various   Labs,

 Workshops, Library, Drawing Hall and Cafeteria etc  were
 also not sufficient as per AICTE norms. (d) Major   deficiencies   were   found   in   documentation

 submitted to AICTE and available infrastructural facilities
 and the same did not  conform to AICTE norms. (e)  The Engineering College, Polytechnic as wellas BBA
 and BCA courses were being run from the same premises

 and   the   facilities   available   therein   were   being   shared.
 Some of  the important  infrastructure  like First­Aid Room,

 Girls   Common   Room,   Placement   Cell,   and   Examination
 Control Office etc, were not available  in the campus. (f)  There     was   no   Principal   for   the   Dev   Bhumy
 Polytechnic. (g)  As   per   AICTE   norms   that   total   faculty   members
 required for the Polytechnic and Engineering College in the
 light   of   the   sanctioned   intake   was   182   as   against   30
 faculty members were Post­Graduate  in Engineering, five
 members Post Graduates in Humanities and other subjects ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:54 :::HCHP ­347­

 and  rest  were  only engineering graduates  who were not
 eligible for teaching B. Tech courses. (h) Only   one   faculty   member   was   available   with   30
 students in different semesters for Automobile Engineering

 . Branch. (I)  The   faulty     members   were   not   paid   as   per   AICTE
 norms. No senior faculty members like Professor/Associate

 Professors had been appointed in the institute. (j)   No appointment letters had been issued to most of
 the   faculty   members   and   some   faculty   members   had

 received   the   appointment   letters   but   the   same   did   not
 contain the details of their salary/pay scales. (k)    There   was   an   acute   shortage   labs   for   the

 Engineering   College   and   the   Polytechnic   in   as   much   as

 only 25 labs were available  as against a total requirement
 of   106   labs.   Further,   the   labs   were   not   adequately
 equipped   with   instruments/apparatus   and   technical

 manpower   (   Lab.   Assistant)   for   conducting   the   practical
 classes   and   some   of   the   available   instruments   were   not

 even in working condition. (l)   The   library   facilities   were   totally   inadequate   and

 there   were   major   deficiencies   in   the   same.   The   institute
 purchased 68 Journals in the year 2010 and thereafter no

 Journals had been subscribed/purchased. (m)   No display board about "Anit­Ragging Instructions" combined   Principal   for   Engineering   College   and

 Polytechnic.   Similar   misrepresentations   had   also   been
 made in the past based on which extensions of approval

 had   been   granted   by   ACITE   as   there   had   been     no
 inspection after the year 2010. (0) The   inspection     also   revealed   that   manipulated

 figures,   had   been   given   in   the   applications   uploaded   on
 AICTE Portal in respect of faculty members, built­up areas,
 Library   Books   and   Computers   available     with   the

 institutions   and     extension   approval   was   sought   for   the

 Academic   Session   2015­2016   based   on   these
 misrepresentations. (p)  False and misleading inspection reports were given

 by   the   Expert   Visiting   Committee   in   as   much   as   the
 Committee which conducted the inspection of the institute

 on   30/05/2010   found   major   shortcomings   and   therefore
 the case for grant of approval was rejected by AICTE on

 30/07/2010   whereas   another   EVC   which   conducted
 inspection on 18/8/2010 found no deficiencies based on

 which   approval   was   granted   by   AICTE.   In   fact,   the
 institutions   did   not   have   separate   and   sufficient
 infrastructure, faculty and other requirements to run either
 a Polytechnic or an Engineering College till date. (q)  It is rather strange that in the absence of any approval
 from AICTE the Himachal Pradesh University permitted the
 said Group of Institutions for Counseling to be conducted
 by the Directorate of Technical Education, H.P. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:54 :::HCHP ­349­ (r)  The extension of affiliation had been granted to the said
 Group   of   Institutions   from   the   Academic   Session   2011­
 2012 onwards by Himachal Pradesh Technical University
 and   every   time   after   inspection   the   institution   had

 . submitted   false   compliance   reports   regarding   the

 rectification   of   deficiencies   pointed   out   by   the   inspection
 team sent by HPTU. (s)     Over   and   above,   Dev   Bhumy   Group   of   Institutions
 started functioning without  any "No Objection Certificate'
 from the Government of Himachal Pradesh. They had very

 cleverly circumvented the process by sending a letter to the
 Chief Minister for NOC in the beginning     which was not
 found anywhere on record. During inspection they  invoked

 failing     clause   that   since   they   did   not   receive   any   reply

 from   the   State   Government   in   this   regard,   the   same
 amounted to concurrence of the State Government. (t)     During   the     inspection   it   came   to   light   that   the

 permission   was   granted   by   Revenue   Department,
 Government  of    H.P. to  Dev  Bhumy  Educational  Trust  to

 establish   on   Engineering   College   on   17/01/2009.
 However, this facility was misused by the trust to run BBA

 and BCA course also. (u)   The   Principal   Trustee   of   the   trust   (   Sh.   Bhupinder

 Kumar Sharma) and the main Author of the Trust ( Smt.
 Neelam Kumari Sharma) are husband & wife and both are
 Canadian   Citizens   since   2000   and   therefore   unable   to
 supervise the activities of the institutions. This fact had not
 been   disclose     to   any   of   the   authorities   by  the   Trust   till
 date. The receipt of funds from the said two persons by the
 Trust   was   also   in   violation   of   the Foreign   Contribution
 (Regulation) Act 1976. ­350­

 456 Based upon aforesaid conclusions, it was prayed as

 under:­

 A  criminal  case   may  please  be  ordered  to   be   registered

 . either CBI  or State  Vigilance  & Anit­ Corruption Bureau,

 Himachal Pradesh  against Sh. Bhupinder Kumar Sharma,
 Chairman,  Sh.  Rajat   Sharma,  Administrative  Officer,  Dr.

 Suraj   Pathak,   the   then   Director  of   Dev   Bhumy   Group   of
 Institutions,   Chandpur,   Tehsil   Haroli,   District   Una,
 concerned   inspecting   officials   of   AICTE   and   unknown

 others under the relevant provisions of Indian Penal Code
 and Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 . The   year   wise   result   of   students   admitted   to   various

 courses,   by   Dev   Bhumy   Group   of   Institutions     for   the
 period 2011­2012 is compiled below:­ 1. Engineering Courses/B. Tech Course

 Year  Students Students Passed

 appeared 2011 127 12 2012 381 31 2013 580 290 2014 730 121 2015 363 87 2. Polytechnic Courses/Diploma in Engineering

 Year  Students Students Passed
 appeared 2009 51 12 2010 243 32 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:55 :::HCHP ­351­ 2011 492 54 2012 662 72 2013 804 87 2014 635 29 . The   above   figures   would   show   that   the   quality   of   the

 education imparted by Dev Bhumy Group of Institutions to
 the  students admitted to  various  courses  was not  up to
 the mark. Since the Dev Bhumy Group of Institutions lacks

 basic   infrastructure   to   run   Engineering   and   Diploma
 Courses,   no   further   admission   may   be   ordered   to   be
 allowed   till   all   the   deficiencies   pointed   out   by   the

 inspecting   committees   and   SIT   from   time   to   time   for

 various   courses   were   rectified.   It   is   therefore,   further
 prayed that directions may please be given to AICTE New
 Delhi, HP Technical   University, Hamirpur and Himachal

 Pradesh   Takniki   Shiksha   Board,   Dharamshala   not   to
 grant   any   further   extesnion   of   approval/extension   of
 affiliation to Dev Bhumy Polytechnic till they they fulfill the

 minimum   requirement/norms laid   down   by AICTE   in

 respect   of   infrastructure,   faculty   labs,   workshop,   library
 and other commons facilities. 457  The   Institution   was   inspected   by   the   VT   of   the

 AICTE pursuant to the order passed   by this Court and in its

 report   (pages   2694­2721),   it   has   been   pointed   out     that   the

 institution has applied for progressive closure   vide application

 I.D.:   1­11234567   from   the   academic   year   2018­19,   but   the

 deficiencies were observed in numbers and areas in laboratories,

 class   rooms,   tutorials,   some   amenities/facilities.   These   areas ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:55 :::HCHP ­352­

 have   been   shared     within   campus   of   Dev   Bhoomi  Polytechnic. Some deficiencies were also observed in faculty and supporting

 staff.  The Polytechnic Institute was also inspected by the VT of

 . AICTE   and   in   its   report   (pages   2888­2909),   no   significant

 deficiencies   were   noticed,   however   it   was   observed   that   some

 administrative and academic infrastructural facilities are shared

 with   existing   Dev   Bhoomi   Institute   of   Engineering   and

 Technology. 458 The Institution has controverted   the reports of the

 SIT   and   VT   initially   by   filing   a   response   (pages   1404­1441),

 however,   it   would   be   necessary   to   refer   to   an

 affidavit/undertaking  (pages 5943­5952) filed by the Institution,

 wherein   it   is   stated   that   the   decision     for   closure   of   B.Tech. Courses   has   already   been   taken   and   there   would   be   no   new

 admission in any  B.Tech. Course for academic session 2018­19. Only the existing students would be permitted to complete the

 courses and shall be transferred to other B.Tech. Institutions for

 which steps will be taken in accordance with the norms and law

 applicable.   Therefore,   all   the     infrastructure   and   the   facilities

 that   were   being   utilized   by   the   institution   earlier   shall   be

 available  and  put to use for polytechnic college. 459 In light of the affidavit filed by the Institution, the

 AICTE   was   directed   to   inspect   the   college   afresh   and   in ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:55 :::HCHP ­353­

 compliance to the order so passed by this Court had placed on

 record   EVC   report   (pages   6716­6744),   wherein   it   is   confirmed

 that the Institution has applied for closure. Therefore, we have

 . no   doubt   in   our   mind   that   the   infrastructure   that   was   earlier

 being utilized by B.Tech. courses would now be sufficient to run

 polytechnic courses, therefore, the Institute is permitted to run

 polytechnic courses. Db)4 MIT College of Engineering & Management, Bani,
 Ganoh Rajputan, Barsar, Hamirpur, H.P.
    r
 460 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.6   (pages   47­53)

 has   not   really   found   any   serious   infrastructural   deficiencies,

 however,   it   was   solely   prayed   that   a   criminal   case   may   be

 ordered to be registered either by CBI or State Vigilance & Anti­

 Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Shri   Vinod

 Thakur,   President   of   Kailash   Education   Society­cum­Principal,

 MIT Polytechnic and unknown others for obtaining extension of

 approval   from   AICTE   on   the   basis   of   mis­representation/false

 information regarding infrastructural facilities available with the

 polytechnic   institution.   The   Institution   has   been   inspected   by

 the VT more than once and its first report is available at pages

 2722­2749, wherein the following deficiencies have been noticed: demonstrated. 3. Some   old   documents   related   to   the   purchase   of
 equipments,   computers,   books   journals,   telephones   bills

 are submitted. 4. Overall   ambiance,   housekeeping   and   building
 maintenance was not found satisfactory. 5. Some building elements were found unsatisfactory. 461 There is yet another report of the AICTE available at

 pages 5918­5922, wherein it is stated that so far as the report of

 the SIT qua this Institution is concerned, that is based on the

 investigation right from the inception, whereas EVC constituted

 by the  AICTE  has inspected the Institution  on the basis of its

 present  condition.  There  is  one  more  report  available  at  pages

 6667­6715, wherein it is pointed out that the Chairman of the

 Institution  has given an undertaking that  MIT Polytechnic has

 been closed from the session 2016­17. At present, no student is

 studying   in   MIT   Polytechnic   and   all   its   resources   including

 building,   computers,   laboratory   equipments   and   books   in   the

 library   are   being   utilized   by   MIT   College   of   Engineering   and

 Management   (MIT   CEM).     However,   still   few   deficiencies   have

 been   pointed   out,   which   in   our   considered   opinion,   can ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:55 :::HCHP ­355­

 conveniently be ignored as these can be removed later on and

 would   not   in   any   manner   impede   the   running   of   the   courses. Therefore,   in   this   background,we   need   not   to   refer   to   the

 . supplementary affidavit filed by the Institution available at pages

 No. 6952­6994 and accordingly, the Institution  is permitted to

 run its courses subject of course to removal of all the objections

 raised   by   the   VT   of   the   AICTE   before   start   of   next   academic

 session. Db)5 Shiva   Institute   of   Engineering   &   Technology,    
 Luhnoo Kanetain, Chandpur, Tehsil Sadar, 

 Bilaspur. Dc)3 Shiva Institute of B. Pharmacy,Luhnoo Kanetain,
 Chandpur, Tehsil Sadar, Bilaspur. Dd(5) Shiva   Institute   of   Engineering   &   Technology,    

 Luhnoo Kanetain, Chandpur, Tehsil Sadar, 
 Bilaspur. 462 The SIT in its progress report No. 6 (pages 95­103)

 has concluded as follows:­

 That an application submitted to AICTE on 19.2.2016, for
 extension   of   approval     for   Under   Graduate   and   PG
 Engineering Courses and Diploma Courses being run in the
 2nd  Shift the number of faculty members had been falsely
 shown as 144 out of which 121 were shown as approved
 wereas   in   fact   only   58   faculty   members   were   available
 and none of them had been approved by HPTU. Further a
 shortage of 32 labs was found in as much as 25 labs were
 available   against   a   requirement   of   57   labs.   Only   23 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:55 :::HCHP ­356­

 instructors were found in the Workshops/Labs as against
 a requirement of one for each workshop/Lab. The number
 of class rooms, tutorial rooms etc. were also found to be
 short particularly the Multipurpose hall and boys common

 . room etc. There was a shortage of computers, printers and

 software etc. and INTERNET bandwidth was also bound to
 be inadequate. Dr. Lakhwinder Pal Singh, who was employed as Principal
 of the Institute  since August, 2016,  was holding a Ph.D.
 degree conferred   by CMJ University Shillong in the year

 2012. It may be added here that the CMJ University had
 come   to   an   adverse   notice   and   found   to   be   involved   in
 issuing   bogus   Ph.D.  degrees.  However,  he   is  doing   Ph.D

 against   from   Sant   Longowal   Institute   of   Engineering   &

 Technology, a Deemed University and  had submitted his
 thesis in September 2016 only. 463 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 A  criminal  case   may  please  be  ordered  to   be   registered
 either CBI  or State  Vigilance  & Anti­ Corruption Bureau,

 Himachal   Pradesh     against   Sh.   Purushotam   Sharma,
 Secretary, Shiv Educational Society and   unknown  others

 for   obtaining     extension   of   approval   for   UG   and   PG
 Engineering   Courses   and   diploma   on   the   basis   of   mis­
 representation /false and  incorrect information uploaded
 on the AICTE portal for the academic session 2016­17.
 Regarding   the   infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities
 available with the institute, directions may also be issued
 to   AICTE   to   seek   compliance   of   deficiencies   pointed   out
 above  before   according   further  extension   of  approval  for
 the session 2017­18. ­357­

 464 The SIT in its progress report No.6 (pages 104­ 109) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of the

 . Shiva Institute of B. Pharmacy has found minor deficiencies

 in infrastructural as well as instructional areas. Therefore, it

 has been prayed that  directions be issued to AICTE and PCI

 to   seek   compliance   for   these   deficiencies   before   according

 extension of approval for the academic session 2017­18. The report of the SIT was sought to be controverted

 by   filing   an   affidavit/response   (pages   176­199),   however   we

 really   need   not   to   refer   to   the   same   in   view   of   the   inspection

 having been carried out by the VT pursuant to the orders passed

 by   this   Court.   Such   report   is   available   at   pages   2750­2770,

 wherein following deficiencies with regard to infrastructure have

 been pointed out:­ 1. Building   plans   are   shown   approved   by   Gram
 Panchayat, whereas the approval is envisaged as per the

 norms of the approval process handbook 2018­19. 2. A   letter   with   letter   No.   STV   (TE)   H­F­5­45­TR
 Abhilashi/EC/2008­7451   dated   9.2.2017   written   to
 Director   TR   Abhilashi   Memorial   Institute   of   Engineering
 and   Technology   by   Director   Technical   Education   H.P.  for
 the     clarification     on   the   subject   matter   stated   above   is
 submitted with enclosure. 3. 16 class rooms area available instead of required 19
 (for UG courses). ­358­ 4. Although   the   total   area   of   classrooms   is   1055.862
 square   meters   -   1056   (16   x   66)   which   is   as   per   AICTE
 norms  the area of four  classrooms is slightly less than the
 required as per norms. . 5. Instead of 5 tutorials only 4 tutorials are available

 (for UG courses). 6. No   tutorials/classrooms   or   research   labs   are

 available for PG courses. The Institute has applied for it.
 Closure of the PG courses and NOC from H.P. Government
 and H.P. Technical University Hamirpur has been received. 7. Occupation   certificate   from   Gram   Panchayat   is   not
 accepted as it is not from the competent authority   as per
 the  AICTE approval process Handbook 2018­19. 8. NOC   for   closure   of   UG   course   of   Electronics   and

 Communications­Engineering has been received from H.P.
 State Govt.  and H.P. Technical University Hamirpur. 9. Many   areas   filled   in   the   application   were   not

 available during physical verification. 10. Although the building is G+4, there is no provision of

 lift and barriers free environment is not available. 11. Fire NOC is not available from the Fire Department. 466 The VT under order of this Court also inspected

 Shiva Institute of B. Pharmacy and in its report (pages 2823­

 2837) found the following deficiencies: Institute of Engg and Technology run by the same society. 4. The   sizes   of   the   girls   common   room   and   boys
 common room are little less in area than the required. 5. The placement office is not available. 6. Barrier free environment is not available. 7. Although the building is G+4, there is no provision of

 lift. 8. Fire NOC  from the Fire Department is not available. 
 467 It   is   thereafter   that   the   Institution   has   filed

 supplementary affidavit   and point wise objections raised by

 the VT have been answered in the following manner:­

 A.   Building   plans   are   shown   approved   by   Gram
 Panchayat, whereas the approval is envisaged as per
 the norms of the approval process handbook 2018­19. Reply: 468 In   view   of   the   response   submitted   by   the

 Institution,   we   really   see   no   reason   why   the   institution

 should not be permitted to continue to run the courses which

 . are being run by it. Ordered accordingly. Db)6: T.R. Abhilashi Memorial Institute of 

 Engineering and Technology, Tanda, Balt Via 
 Ner Chowk, Mandi

 469 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 65­73)

 has concluded  that the  land area is  not contiguous  and is

 deficient. False information has been uploaded   on the web

 portal of AICTE regarding built up area as well as availability

 of   faculty/staff,   for   obtaining   extension   of   approval   for   the

 academic   session   2018­19.   It   has   been   accordingly   prayed

 that a criminal case be ordered to be registered either by CBI

 or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti   Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal

 Pradesh against Shri T.R. Abhilashi and others for obtaining

 recognition/affiliation from AICTE/HPTU on the basis of false

 information/affidavits regarding the   land and built up area

 and   other   infrastructure   available   with   the   society.   It   has

 been   further   prayed   that   since   the   institution   lacks   in

 infrastructural area and recognition and affiliation had been

 obtained  on the basis of mis­representation and submission

 of   false     information/documents/affidavits,   directions   be ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:57 :::HCHP ­366­

 issued to AICTE/HPTU not to extend approval and affiliation

 till   the   deficiencies   in   respect   of   infrastructural   and

 instructional facilities are removed by the institute. . 470 The Institute was inspected by the VT pursuant

 to the orders passed by this Court and in its report, pages

 2711­2790,   no   deficiency   was   found   in   running   of   this

 institute. Therefore, we really need not to refer to the reply­

 submissions of the institution to the report submitted by SIT

 (pages 3001­3017).  r
 471 In view of above, we permit the institution to run

 the courses as are being run by it. Dc)2: DDM   College   of   Pharmacy,   Banehra,   Tehsil  
 Amb, District Una. 472 The SIT in its progress report No.5 (pages 31­39)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has arrived at the following conclusions: Moreover, most of the equipment in the labs were found
 to be old, obsolete and unusable. No machine room had
 been provided. ­367­ 3. There was no proper seminar hall with furniture,
 dais, projector and public address system. 4.   There   was   no   language   lab,   Tutorial   Room   and
 placement office in the institution and the areas of Boys

 . and Girls Common Rooms, Store Room, Instrumentation

 Room,   Computer   lab,   Library,   Faculty   members   rooms,
 Principal  Office, HOD Office were found to be much less

 than the actual requirement. 5. The Library was not fully equipped  with reference
 books, e­ journals, magazines etc and sufficient furniture

 had not  been provided. 6.   The computer lab had only 12 computer systems
 which   were   functional   as   against   a   requirement   of   24

 and all of them were not put on LAN. 7.   There  was a shortage  of faculty members in as
 much   as   twelve   teachers   were   available   against   a
 requirement of 16 and the Principal was on long medical

 leave   since   January,   2016   on   account   of   some   road
 accident. The faculty members and the other staff  were

 not  paid salary as per AICTE norms and in cash which
 was not desirable. 8.   The Technicians in the lab were insufficient and
 the raw material available in each lab was insufficient to

 conduct   practical   Classes.   No   Software   for   performing
 Pharmacology   experiments   was   available   and   the
 equipment was old and unusable. 9.   The   information     uploaded   on   the   AICTE   web
 portal by the institution  in their application for extension
 of approval for the years 2015­2016 and 2016­ 2017 in
 respect of infrastructure and instructional facilities were
 actually   not   found   during   the   physical   inspection   in
 respect of various items like teaching faculty, approval of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:57 :::HCHP ­368­

 teaching faulty by the university payment as per the 6 th
 Pay Commission, number of labs, machine room, Animal
 House and accommodation of staff members and HOD's
 etc.   This   would   go   to   show   that   the   institution

 . misrepresented   the   various   facts   like   infrastructure,

 instructional  and  other facilities  available  with them  to
 the AICTE and obtained approval on the basis of false

 information   uploaded     on   the   AICTE   portal   and   later
 submitted in hard copies as well. 10.   The   inspection   of   the   said   institution   was   got

 conducted   initially   by   HP   University   for   the   Academic
 Session   2009­10   and   subsequently     by   HPTU   for   the
 Academic   Sessions   2011­12,   2012­13,   2013­14,   2014­

 2015   and   2015­2016   and   various   deficiencies   were

 pointed out by the different inspection teams from time to
 time. However, the HPU/HPTU continued to extend the
 affiliation   of   the   B.   Pharma     Course   subject   to   the

 condition that the deficiencies were complied with within
 a period of 3 months . Some of the glaring deficiencies

 continue to exist as one on date. 473 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1.  It is  respectfully prayed that a criminal case may
 please be ordered to be registered either by CBI or State
 Vigilance   &   Anit­Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh
 against   Sh.   Narendar   Sharma,   Chairman,   Mahant
 Dwarka  Dass Educational  Society and  DDM College of
 Pharmacy and others for obtaining approval/extension of
 approval   on   the   basis   of   misrepresentation   under   the
 relevant provisions Indian Penal Code . ­369­ 2.  The percentage of result of students admitted to B.
 Pharma Course and passed out from the said institution
 for the period of 2009­2015 is complied below:­

 . It may also be mentioned here that some of the students

 admitted   to   the   aforesaid   batches   failed   during   the   4
 years   course   and   reappeared.   However,   the   average
 pass   percentage   per   year   is   between   33   to   60%.   The

 Batches   admitted   for   Academic   Session   2012­2016,

 2013­2017 ,2014­2018 and 2015­2019 are yet to pass
 out. The   above   figures   would   show   that   the   quality   of   the

 education   imparted   by   the   said   institution   to   the
 students admitted to B. Pharma Course was not up to

 the   mark.   Since   the   DDM   College   of   Pharmacy   lacks
 basic infrastructure to run B. Pharma course, directions

 may   please   be   issued   to   AICTE,   Pharmacy   Council   of
 India and HPTU and to allow further admission till all

 the deficiencies pointed out by the inspecting committees
 from time to time and SIT are complied with and basic
 requirements/norms   laid   down   from   time   to   time   are
 fulfilled. 474 The Institute was inspected by the VT  pursuant

 to the orders passed by this Court and in its reports available

 at   pages   2807­2812   and   pages   6406­6432,   no   serious ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:57 :::HCHP ­370­

 deficiency was found in running of this institute. Therefore,

 we   really   need   not   to   refer   to   the   reply­affidavit   of   the

 institution to the report submitted by SIT (pages 4467­4475). . 475 In view of above, we permit the institution to run

 the courses as are being run by it. Dc)4: Dreamz College of Pharmacy, Khilra, 
 Sundernagar, Mandi. Fb)4: Dreamz   Polytechnic,   Khilra   Sundernagar,  

 Mandi. 476 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 104­ 109)   after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of

 Dreamz   College   of   Pharmacy   has   found   that   the   Dreamz

 College of Pharmacy and Dreamz Polytechnic are being run

 from   the   same   premises.   The   total   land   requirement   for

 running these institutions, as per AICTE norms was 7 acres

 whereas the total land available with the society  from where

 these   two institutions   were being run was 185.35 sq. mts. less   than   even   two   acres.   The   college   had   been   obtaining

 extension of approval from time to time from AICTE as well as

 PCI   and   HPTU   by   concealment   of   the   fact   that     Dreamz

 Polytechnic was being run from the land meant for Pharmacy

 College alone. ­371­

 477 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered

 . either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti­   Corruption

 Bureau, Himachal  Pradesh against  Shri Naresh Kumar
 Chairman   of   the   Society   and   others   for   obtaining

 extension   of   approval   and   affiliation   from
 AICTE/PCI/HPTU   on   the   basis   of   false   information
 regarding the land available with the Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional  area,   directions  may please  be  issued  to
 AICTE/PCI/HPTU   to   get   the   deficiencies   complied   with

 before extending  approval/recognition/affiliation. 478 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 37­46)

 after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of Dreamz

 College   of   Polytechnic   has   found   that   the   Society   had

 misrepresented   the facts about the land and building from

 which the polytechnic was being run  for obtaining approval

 of   DTE   as   well   as   AICTE.     The   land   purchased   for   the

 purpose   of   running    polytechnic     was   in   7  separate   pieces

 and was lying  undeveloped till date.  The polytechnic totally

 lacks in infrastructural and instructional  facilities. The data

 uploaded on the web portal  of AICTE for seeking extension of

 approval for the academic   year 2017­18 by the polytechnic

 has been found to be  false. ­372­

 479 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered

 . either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti­   Corruption

 Bureau, Himachal  Pradesh against  Shri Naresh Kumar
 Chairman   of   the   Society   and   others   for   obtaining

 recognition/affiliation as well as extension of affiliation
 from   AICTE/HPU   on   the   basis   of   false
 information/affidavits   regarding   the   land   and   built   up

 are and other infrastructure available with the Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional area and recognition & affiliation had been

 obtained on the basis of misrepresentation & submission

 of   false   information/   documents/affidavits,   directions
 may   please   be   issued   to   NCTE/HPU   to   cancel   the
 recognition & affiliation of the College. 3. The permission  granted by the Government of H.P. to
 purchase   land may be   ordered to be cancelled as the

 same   had   not   been   developed   and   used   within   two

 years of its purchase  as per conditions stipulated in the
 permission letter. 480 The Dreamz College of Pharmacy was got inspected

 by the VT under the orders of this Court  and in its report (pages

 (2838­2852),  no significant deficiencies qua infrastructure were

 found.   However,   it   was   observed   that   more   library   books   are

 required to be purchased for the students and the salaries are

 required to be paid to the staff as per sixth pay commission. ­373­

 481 The Dreamz College of Polytechnic College was also

 got inspected by the VT under the orders of this Court  and in its

 report (pages 5604­5624),  following  deficiencies were noticed: 482 It is thereafter that Naresh Kumar, Chairman of

 Dreamz   Educational   Society   has   filed   his

 affidavit/undertaking     controverting   therein   the   objections

 raised by the SIT and VT. It is averred that  the society is in

 possession   of   total   3   pieces   of   land,   total   measuring   l7.1

 acres. The two pieces of land are comprised in Khasra No.295

 (i.e.   7­2­0   bighas)   and   Khasra   No.322   measuring   2­14­02

 bighas. Both the parcels of land are contiguous to each other

 as they are only separated by a Nallah.  The total land in the

 aforementioned   two   khasra   numbers   is   being   utilized   for

 conducting  the Pharmacy course along with the Polytechnic ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­374­

 Course. Although the   said two courses are being run from

 two different buildings having two different entrances, though

 situate on a single campus, but are in fact having two separte

 . sub campuses.  The Society is also in possession of  another

 piece of land comprised in Khasra Nos. 100, 109, 819/110,

 131,   190,   197,   198,   203,   204,   207   and   208,   Kita   11

 measuring 25­10­05 bigha, which is situated at a distance of

 2   kms   from   the   land   on   which   the   society   is   running   the

 institutes.  It is further averred that  for polytechnic courses,

 5 acres of land is required and for pharmacy courses, 2 acres

 of land is required, whereas the Society is in fact having 7.1

 acres   of   land.   As   regards   requirement   of   more   computer

 systems, it is averred that the society is having an approved

 intake of 270 seats only in different streams for the  current

 academic session 2018­19.   As against 270 seats, the total

 number   of   admissions   in   Polytechnic   Institute     is   only   24

 students.   Till last year, total number of students were 154

 in all three classes. However, now 54 students have passed

 out,   therefore,   the   current   strength   of   total   number   of

 students as on date is, 124. There are   total number of 98

 computers for the aforementioned strength of 124 students,

 which strength may go upto about 160 students. Therefore,

 with the decreased approved intake of students, the aforesaid ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­375­

 number   of   computers   and   26   laboratories   as   against

 requirement   of   36   laboratories,   would   be   more   than

 sufficient.     It   is   averred   that   an   advertisement   has   been

 . published   in   Amar   Ujala   and   Divya   Himachal   newspapers

 inviting   applications   for   filling   up   the   deficiency   of   faculty

 members and as and when  suitable candidates would apply

 for   the   same,   the   faculty   would   be   appointed   to   meet   the

 deficiency as pointed out by the SIT and VT.  The Society has

 already placed orders for books on 19.6.2018 amounting to

 Rs.2,01,119.85  and copy of the order so placed is appended

 with the reply as Annexure D(c)(iv)/B. The Society has also

 placed   an   order  to   make   good   the   deficiency  in   the   library

 meant for the use of polytechnic students vide Annexure D(c) (iv)/C. 

 483 After going through the SIT and VT reports and

 reply filed by the Institutions aforementioned, we are of the

 opinion   that   the   Institutions   have   requisite   infrastructural

 facilities to run the courses and accordingly,  the Institutions

 are permitted to run the courses that are currently being run

 by them. 484 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has already been granted to the Institutions, like the other ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­376­

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. Dc)5: Shanti Niketan College of Pharmacy, Malther,

 . Tehsil Balh, District Mandi. 485 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 110­118)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection     of   the

 Institution has arrived at the following conclusions:­

 Shri Shakti Chand, the promoter President of the Society
 misrepresented the facts regarding transfer of land in the

 name of the society and executed an agreement  as well as

 an affidavit   in support of the same.   However, after the
 recognition   was   granted   by   the   AICTE   on   the
 recommendations   of   the   SLC,   Shri   Shakti   Chand

 transferred the land in the name of his mother who further
 sold it off to different parties. Further, an expert committee
 of   Directorate   of   Technical   Education,   Sunder   Nagar,

 misrepresented   the facts in their inspection report dated

 12.5.2005 to the effect that the society has adequate  land
 available.   The   institute   badly   lacks   in   infrastructure.   In

 view of the aforesaid facts, it can be concluded that the
 society   committee   a   fraud   and   misrepresented   to   the
 AICTE/DTE   regarding     availability   of   land   and   thus
 dishonestly   and   fraudulently   obtained   recognition   by
 cheating DTE/AICTE. 486 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­377­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered
 either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti­   Corruption
 Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Shri   Shakti   Chand
 and   others   for   obtaining   recognition/affiliation   from

 . AICTE/DTE/PCI   on   the   basis   of   false

 information/affidavits   regarding   the   land   and   built   up
 area and other infrastructure available with the Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional area,  and recognition & affiliation had been
 obtained   on   the   basis   of   misrepresentations   &

 submission   of   false   information/documents/affidavits,
 directions   may   please   be   issued   to   AICTE/HPTSB/PCI
 not to extend the recognition & affiliation of this institute

 till the deficiency are fulfilled. 487 Thereafter, the VT   under the orders of this Court

 inspected the Institute and in its report (pages 2853­22867), no

 significant deficiency was found. 488 Though, the  Institution filed its reply (pages 3404­

 3473), however, we  need not to refer  here the averments made

 in the aforesaid reply  as no significant deficiency was noticed by

 the VT. Therefore, we permit the institution to run its courses as

 are being run by it. Dd)3 Shivalik Polytechnic, Badhera, Haroli, Una. 489 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.4   (pages   77­88),

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection     of   the

 Institution, has arrived at the following conclusions:­ ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­378­ 1.   The   building   for   the   institute   had   not   been
 constructed   as   per   the   approved   plan   submitted   to
 AICTE/DTE. The required infrastructure was found to
 be short by 1657.50 Sq. mts. There  was no approach

 . Road to the Institution No facilities were found  for the

 physically handicapped persons. 2.   The   requirement   of   various   administrative   areas,

 amenities and common facilities were not available as
 per   AICTE   norms.   The   workshops   were   at   a   little
 higher   altitude   and   there   was   no   staircase   and

 students   were     to   climb   on   katcha   path.   The
 workshops   were   found   covered   with   asbestos   sheet
 roof   and     the   same   appeared   to   be   temporary

 arrangement. 3. There had been no Boys and Girls Commons Rooms
 in   the   polytechnic.   However,   in   the   application
 uploaded   on   the   web   portal   of   AICTE   it   had   been

 falsely   mentioned   that   these   common   rooms   were
 available. Besides that there was no Seminar Hall in

 the   institution.   The   toilets   for   Boys   and   Girls   were
 adjoining each other which  are highly objectionable. 4. Sh. Varun Gautam, who joined as Principal of the
 Polytechnic on 22.9.2015 , has done B. Tech  in E & C

 in   May,   2009   M.   Tech   in   VLSI   &   Design   Circuit   in
 December   2011   and   had   been   enrolled   for   PhD   in
 December,   2014.   He   is   therefore,   not   qualified   to   be
 appointed as Principal as per AICTE norms. 5.   As   per   AICTE   norms   the   total   faculty   members
 required   for     the   Polytechnic   in   the   light   of   the
 sanctioned   intake   was   45   as   against   an   actual
 strength   of   16   faculty   members,   which     included
 Principal and two part times. Further, in its extension ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­379­

 of   approval   for   2016­2017   the   number   of   faculty
 members had  been falsely shown as 41. The faculty
 members   were   being   paid   a   meagre   salary   but   the
 information   uploaded   on   the   AICTE   Portal   falsely

 . showed the the faculty members were being paid as

 per AICTE norms. 6. There were only  instructors, one for all labs and 5

 for workshops as against  a total requirement of 30. 7. The Polytechnic  needed 30 Labs for the sanctioned
 courses as against which only 14 labs were available. However, the institute had submitted false information
 on AICTE Portal to the effect that the institute had 21
 labs. 8.   The   labs   were   not   adequately   equipped   with

 instruments/apparatus   for   conduction   the   Practical
 Classes.   Further,   the   labs   did   not   have   adequate
 facilities to carry out the experiments and majority of

 the   available   instruments   were   not   in   working
 condition. 9. The institute had  42 computers as against a total
 requirement   of   150   and   there   was   no   language   lab. The internet Band­width was only 2 mbps as against
 the   requirement   of   32   mbps.   The   printer   were   also

 short   in   as   much   as   4   were   available   as   a   total
 requirement of 15. 10. There was an acute shortage of books in as much
 only   3756   volumes   were   available   as   against   the
 requirement of 4875 in the Library. The reading room
 capacity was also limited to   33 students, as against
 the requirement of 100 students. There was  no library
 management   software   and   there   was   a   shortage   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­380­

 National  Journals   as  only  3  Journals  were  available
 against a requirement of 15. 11. No training and placement Cell had been created in
 the institute and no Seminars, conference of Training

 . programmes had  been organized for the faculty right

 form the beginning. 12. No regular appointment letters had been issued to

 the faculty members and some of the  faculty members
 who  received  the  appointment  letters  did  not  contain
 the details of their salary or pay scales. 13.No   Board   had   been   displayed   containing   "Anti­
 Ragging"   Instructions"   which   was   mandatory   as   per
 the orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. 14. No First­aid room or medical assistance was fond

 in the Institution. 490 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 17.   It   is   respectfully   prayed   that   a   criminal   case   my
 please be  ordered to be registered either by CBI or State

 Vigilance   &   Anit­Corruption   Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh
 against   Sh.   Sat   Pal,   Secretary   of   the   Lord   Shiva

 Educational   Society,   Sh.   Varun   Gautam   ,   Principal   of
 Shivalik   Polytechnic,   Village   Badhera,   Tehsil   District,
 Una,   concerned   inspecting   officials   of   Directorate   of
 Technical   Education,     Sunder   Nagar,   Mandi   and
 unknown others under the relevant provisions of Indian
 Penal  Code and  Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 for
 obtaining approval as well as extension of approval on
 the   basis   of   misrepresentation   made   by   them.
 Thereafter, AICTE believing it to be true issued letter of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:58 :::HCHP ­381­

 approval/extension of approval and thus got cheated in
 the   process.   The   public   servants   involved   in   the
 inspection abused their official position giving a false &
 misleading   report   about   the   availability   of   the

 . infrastructure   &   faculty   etc.   And   the   caused   undue

 benefit to the institution. 18. The year ­wise result of students admitted to various

 course   by Shivalik Polytechnic for the period of 2009­
 2015 is complied below:­

 Year  Students Students Passed
 appeared 2009 27 1 2010 r 107 22 2011 227 103 2012 486 128 2013 6949 53 2014 549 97 2015 441 100 The  above figures would reflect that the quality of the

 education   imparted   by   Shivalik   Polytechnic   to   the
 students admitted to various Diploma courses was not

 up   to   the   mark.   Since   the   Shivalik   Polytechnic   lacks
 basic infrastructure to run Diploma courses, no further
 admission   may   be   ordered   to   be   allowed   till   all   the
 deficiencies   pointed   out   by   the   inspecting   committees
 and   SIT   from   time   to   time   for   various   courses,   are
 rectified. It  is, therefore, further  prayed  that  directions
 may please be given AICTE, New Delhi and  Himachal
 Pradesh   Takniki   Shiksha   Board,   Dharamshala   not   to
 grant   any   further   extension   of   approval/extension   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:59 :::HCHP ­382­

 affiliation   to   Shivalik   Polytechnic   till   they   fullfil   the
 minimum   requirements/norms laid   down   by AICTE   in
 respect of infrastructure, faculty labs workshops library
 and other common facilities. . 491 The VT in compliance to the direction of this Court

 inspected the Institute  and in its report dated 6.6.2018 (pages

 2910­2928),   though     found   no   significant   deficiencies   in   class

 rooms   and   laboratory   infrastructure,   but   observed   that   more

 computers and library books are needed and the staff is less. 492 The   Institution   has   filed   an   affidavit/undertaking

 dated 20.7.2018 (pages 5953­5971) submitting therein that the

 total approved  intake for the Institute is 300 students per year. In other words, the approved intake is 60 student per trade per

 year.     The   Institute   is   running     courses   for   five   trades.     As

 against an approved intake of 300 students for 2017­18, only 23

 students were admitted.  There has been a steady decline in the

 number of admissions to the Institute.  Even out of 23 students,

 7   students   left   the   Institute.     It   is   averred   that   against   the

 sanctioned strength of 900 students for three academic sessions,

 the   Institute   has   only   73   students   upto   the   last   academic

 session in the entire Institute.  For the current academic session

 2018­19, a total number of 7 students have sought admission in

 various trades as against approved intake of 300 students and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:59 :::HCHP ­383­

 out   of   7   students,   3   students   are   under   the   category   of   "Fee

 Waiver   Students"   as   recommended   by   the   Director   Technical

 Educational   Board,   Himachal  Pradesh.     The   Institute   has   also

 . advertised   the   vacancies   in   different   trades     in   Punjab   Kesari

 vide   Annexure   R   No.D(d)3/B   (colly).     The   Institute   has   also

 placed   an   order   dated   18.6.2018   for   purchase   of   additional

 library books vide Annexure R No.D(d)3/C.  Lastly, it is averred

 that the Institute has 45 computers and these are sufficient for

 present strength of students. 493 The VT of the AICTE again  inspected the Institute

 under the orders of this Court and in its report dated 5.8.2018

 (pages   6433­6459)   found   the   deficiencies   with   regard   to   the

 seminar hall, class room etc.  It also noticed the deficiencies  in

 other areas, which are reproduced here­in­below:­

 INFRASTRUCTURAL   DEFICIENCIES   IN   REGARDS   TO
 THE COMMON INSTRUCTIONAL AREAS: INFRASTRUCTURAL   DEFICIENCIES   IN   REGARDS   TO
 THE ADMINISTRATIVE AREA: ­384­ 2. Department offices and Training and placement offices
 area less in areas than the required as per the AICTE
 norms. INFRASTRUCTURAL   DEFICIENCIES   IN   REGARDS   TO

 . THE AMENITIES AREA: DEFICIENCIES   IN   COMPUTING   FACILITIES   AND

 LIBRARY: The institute has recently purchased 135 volumes of 37
 titles on 30/72018. DEFICIENCIES IN FACULTY REQUIREMENT: However,   19   faculty   members   total   are   found   present.
 The   faculty   members   are   paid   salary   in   the   range   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:59 :::HCHP ­385­

 rupees 6000­9000 per month, which is   not as per the
 ACITE   norms.   The   advertisement   for   recruiting   faculty
 has   been   given   by   the   institute   in   "Punjab   Kesri'   on
 24.7.2018. . In response to that advertisement, 2 new faculty member

 (1   in   civil   engineering   1   in   electrical)   has   joined   the
 institute   on   4.8.2018   on   consolidated   salary   of   rupees

 6000 per month. The   appointment letters issued to the
 newly   recruited   faculty   members   were   not   found   in
 order. 2.  Sh.  M.R   Sharma,  aged   69  years,  is   working  as   the
 principal   on   consolidated   salary   of   Rs   35,000/­   per
 month after being after being retired as S.E (Mechanical)

 from HPPWD. He joined the institute on 17.8.2017. His

 academic   qualification   is   diploma   in   Mechanical
 Engineering. Followed by AIME. As per the AICTE norms,
 he does not meet the essential qualifications for the post

 of principal. 494 To   controvert   the   report   of   the   VT   of   the   AICTE

 dated   5.8.2018,   the   Institute   filed   response   (pages   6865­6881)

 wherein   it   has     reiterated   its   stand   taken   in   supplementary

 affidavit dated 20.7.2018. In addition thereto, it is averred that

 there   are   two   separate   approaches   to   the   Institute   -   one

 approach is from Badhera Bus Stand to Institute, which is fully

 metalled   and   another   approach   road   is   from   Badhera   School

 playground   to   the   Institute,   which   road   is   also   in   fact   an   all

 weather road, however a small patch of about 300 mts thereof ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:59 :::HCHP ­386­

 remains to be metalled  since there is a dispute between two sets

 of villagers. 495 The Regional Officer,  North Western Region Office,

 . Chandigarh,   AICTE   also   filed   a   supplementary   affidavit   dated

 29.8.2018   (pages   6882­6895),   wherein   he   reiterated   the

 deficiencies found by the VT in its report dated 5.8.2018. 496 We have gone through the reports filed the SIT and

 VT so also the supplementary affidavit and response filed by the

 Institution.   Obviously,   with   the   current   intake,   it   cannot   be

 doubted   that the Institution is having adequate infrastructural

 facility   and   is,   therefore,   permitted   to   continue   to   run   the

 courses as already being run by it. 497 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time   has

 already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions, to rectify the same upto the next academic session. Dd)4: MIT Polytechnic, Bani, Ganoh, Rajputan, 
 Hairmpur. 498 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.6   (pages   54­60)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection     of   the

 Institution has arrived at the following conclusion:­

 Kailash   Education   Society   has   taken   a   decision   to
 progressively close the MIT Polytechnic from the academic
 session 2016­17 and they did not admit any student in the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:55:59 :::HCHP ­387­

 1st  year   of   any   of   the   diploma   course   being   run   but   it
 during the current session.  Formal permission of AICTE for
 closure of this Polytechnic is awaited through Directorate of
 Technical Education,H.P. and HPSTB have given NOC for

 . its closure. 499 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been   prayed   that   a   criminal   case     be   ordered   to   be   registered

 either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anti­   Corruption   Bureau,

 Himachal   Pradesh   against   Shri   Vinod   Thakur,   President   of

 Kailash   Education   Society­cum­Principal,   MIT   Polytechnic   and

 unknown  others for obtaining extension of approval from AICTE

 on   the   basis   of   misrepresentation/false   information   regarding

 infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities   available   with   the

 Polytechnic. 500 The VT in compliance to the direction of this Court

 inspected the Institute  and in its report dated 5.6.2018 (pages

 2930­2955) observed as under:­

 On the day of inspection, it was found that the buildings
 and infrastructure to be inspected for polytechnic programs
 is being utilized for running a school. The Institute has submitted a letter Ref. No. EDN­H(21) A(1)
 P.S.­03/2017­NOC   dated   26th  Feb.   2018,   issued   by
 Directorate   of   Higher   Education,   Himachal   Pradesh
 regarding   grant   of   permission   to   run/establish   a   private
 educational   institution   (Woods   Park   School,   Hamirpur,
 Bani). ­388­

 501 There is one more report available at  pages  6667­

 6715,   wherein   it   is   pointed   out   that   the   Chairman   of   the

 Institution  has given an undertaking that  MIT Polytechnic has

 . been   closed   down   from   the   academic   session   2016­17.   At

 present,   no   student   is   studying  in   MIT   Polytechnic   and   all   its

 resources including  building, computers, laboratory equipments

 and   books   in   the   library   are   being   utilized   by   MIT   College   of

 Engineering   and   Management   (MIT   CEM).     Therefore,   in   this

 background,we need not to refer to the supplementary affidavit

 filed   by   the   Institution   available   at   pages   No.   6952­6994   and

 accordingly,   no   action   is   required   to   be   taken   against   this

 Institution. Ea)1: Kshatriya College of Education, Village Kutsain, 
 Tehsil Indora, District Kangra, H.P.

 502 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 17­25)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has arrived at the following conclusions: 503 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and

 instructional facilities directions may please be issued to
 NCTE and HP Board of Secondary Education not to allow
 any further admissions in this College to D.El.Ed course till

 the deficiencies were removed. Even admissions to B.Ed.
 course may also be allowed by NCTE and HPU only after
 compliance   of   the   deficiencies   pointed   out   during

 inspection. Directions   may   also   be   issued   to   NCTE   as   well   as   HP

 University   to   take   suitable     action   against   the
 persons/officials who had inspected this Institute for grant

 of recognition  for D.El.Ed course as they had intentionally
 concealed   material   facts   about   the   inadequacy   of

 infrastructural   facilities   which   lead   to   recognition   of
 D.El.Ed course in KCE. 504 The VT in compliance to the direction of this Court

 visited   the   Institute   on   13.6.2018   (pages   4025­4029),   and

 pointed out that as per BCC dated 14.5.2015, the institution is

 having 2073.87 sq. mts. built up area which is inadequate as per

 provisions of NCTE Regulations, 2014 which provides 3000 sq. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:00 :::HCHP ­390­

 mts. of built up area for running of one unit of B.Ed. & one unit

 of  D.El.Ed.  Programme.   Hence,  the  deficiency    in   terms   of  the

 built   up   area   by   the   Institution   has   not   been   removed.   Apart

 . from that, it is pointed out that online journals are not available

 in the library, curriculum lab is very small, the faculty has not

 been approved by the affiliating university  and salary paid to the

 staff is very less. 505 The Institution has controverted  the report by filing

 an affidavit/undertaking  (pages 6307­6308), wherein it is stated

 that as regards requirement of 3000 sq.mts. of built up area, the

 society has constructed one multipurpose hall measuring more

 than 2000 sq. ft. It is further averred that the deficiencies qua

 seminar hall and multipurpose hall have been removed. The area

 of  library  has  been  increased  to  more  than   1000  sq.  feet.   The

 deficiency   with   regard   to   laboratory   has   been   removed   by

 purchasing 30 numbers of computers, equipments and objection

 of SIT with regard to curriculum lab has been met out. Lastly, it

 is averred that   the Institution has appointed one Principal and

 15 Assistant Professors and has requested the H.P. University  to

 approve the faculty members as they fulfill the requirements as

 per   the   norms   of   NCTE   and   H.P.   University.     Mr.   Shatrujeet

 Singh, Chairman of the Society, has undertaken to give salary to

 the staff as per the directions so issued by this Court. ­391­

 506 In  light of  the  affidavit filed  by the  Institution,   we

 have no doubt in our mind that the institution has removed all

 the deficiencies as pointed out by the SIT and VT of the AICTE,

 . therefore, the Institute is permitted to run the courses as were

 being run by it. Ea)2: Tara College of Education, Basa, Waziran, 
 Tehsil Nurpur, District Kangra, H.P.

 507 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 26­33)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute   has   found   that   the   Institution   totally   lacks     in

 infrastructural facilities. The height of the roof in some of the

 rooms was   found less than 8 feet as also unit for a college

 building.   The institution also lacks in various instructional

 facilities. 508 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and
 instructional facilities directions may please be issued to
 NCTE/HPU   not   to   allow   any   further   admissions   in   this
 college till the deficiencies were removed. Directions     may   also   be   issued   to   NCTE   as   well   as   HP
 University   to   take   suitable   action   against   the
 persons/officials   who   had   inspected   this   Institute   and
 concealed material facts about the infrastructural facilities
 which lead to recognition and affiliation of TCE. ­392­

 The matter regarding  bogus letters purportedly issued by
 the   office   of   Secretary   (Education)/Directorate   of
 Education,   Govt.   of   H.P.   to   NCTE   with   the
 recommendations not to grant   recognition which resulted

 . in   an   inordinate   delay   at   the   end   of   NCTE   to   take   a

 decision in the matter and that too after the intervention of
 this   Court   may   be   investigated   by   the   CBI   or   the   State

 Police. 509 The  Institution   initially     filed   its   reply­affidavit

 (pages 1394­1399), wherein it was averred that after inspection

 by the  SIT,   the Institution  has renovated  the unfinished  area

 measuring   294.18   sq.   mts.     The   Institution   has   purchased

 furniture   for   seminar   hall,   placed   proper   dais   in   multipurpose

 hall, purchased more titled books as per requirement in library. Area of library has been increased from 995 sq. ft to 1000 sq. ft.. As regards the Institution, curriculum lab does not fulfill NCTE

 norms,   2014   and   ICT   Resources   Centre   and   Art   &   Craft

 Resource Centre, it is averred that   the Institution is having all

 material, equipments and all facilities as per NCTE Regulations,

 2014.     In   addition   thereto,   the   Institution   has   purchased   all

 musical   instruments   as   required   i.e.   Amplifier,   Tabla,   Dholak,

 Sound   Box,   Harmonium,   Flute.     As   regards   instructional

 deficiencies,   it   is   averred   that     the   Institution   is   having   seven

 faculty members including officiating Principal.  It has advertised

 time   to   time   in   daily   newspaper   for   various   posts,   but   no ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:00 :::HCHP ­393­

 application from eligible candidates has been received till date. The institution is deducting  EPF of its Class IV employees as per

 rules. The Institution has appointed a Labirarian having marks

 . above 55% in B.Lib course and for appointment of Lab Assistant

 and Technical Assistant, the Institution is searching for eligible

 candidates and as and when qualified and eligible candidates are

 found, they would be appointed. 510 We   need   not   to   delve   into   the   aforesaid   reply­

 affidavit  as   the   Institution  was  got  inspected   by the   VT   of   the

 AICTE on 11.6.2018 under the orders of this Court and in its

 report (pages 4030­4035), it has pointed out that as per C.D.,

 some of the rooms of the institution are covered  with unfinished

 tin   roof   top,     the   institution   has   not   enclosed   the   copy   of

 association   register   for   checking   the   titles   of   the   books,

 curriculum lab, ICT Resources Centre and Art & Craft Resource

 Centre is not equipped with requirement equipments. Lastly, it

 was pointed out that as per the NCTE norms, the Institution has

 not appointed the eligible faculty and required number of faculty

 and   the   faculty   so   appointed   has   not   been   approved     by   the

 affiliating university. No technical assistant has been appointed. The   salary   to   the   teachers   though   is   being   given     through

 cheques, however the salary is not paid as UGC pay scale. ­394­

 511 The Institution has controverted  the report by filing

 an affidavit/undertaking  (pages 6364­6366), wherein it is stated

 that   as   regards   deficiency   related   to   unfinished   tin   roof   top,

 . register for checking the titles of the books, curriculum lab ICT

 Resource   Centre   and   Art   &   Craft   Resource   Centre,     the

 Institution   has   undertaken   to   finish     tin   roof   top   if   required

 before   next   session.   The   register   for   checking   the   titles   of   the

 books is available with the Institution.  The Institution is taking

 all   possible   steps   for   recruitment   of   proper   staff   as   per   NCTE

 norms and has given advertisements in Amar Ujala newspaper

 on   29.4.2018   and   in   The   Tribune   on   2.5.2018.     It   is   further

 averred   that   the   H.P.   University   has   constituted   a   selection

 committee for recruitment of  faculty in the month of June 2018,

 but   qualified     persons   are   not   coming   forward   as   there   is   a

 genuine   paucity   of   UGC/NET   qualified   candidates.     The

 Institution   is   making   genuine   endeavour     to   recruit   faculty   as

 per existing norms and undertakes to remove the deficiency with

 regard to faculty as soon as suitable and qualified staff as per

 norms is available. 512 We   are   of   the   opinion   that   the   Institution   has

 requisite   infrastructural   facilities   to   run   the   courses   and

 accordingly, report submitted by the SIT is set aside and the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:00 :::HCHP ­395­

 Institution is permitted to run the courses that are currently

 being run by it. 513 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 . has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. Ea)3: Vaishno College of Education, Village 
 Thapkour,   Tehsil   Nurpur,   District   Kangra,  

 H.P.

 514 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 34­42)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute   has   found   that   the   Institution   totally   lacks   in

 infrastructural   and   instructional   facilities   and   is   unfit   for

 recognition to conduct M.Ed. Course as well as three extra

 basic   units   of   B.Ed.   course   in   its   existing   facilities.   The

 Institution   had   been   shifted   to   new   building,   which   is   still

 under construction, since 2010­11 without permission of the

 NCTE. 515 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructural   and
 instructional   area   to   cater   to   the   sanctioned   strength   of
 four   basic   units   of   B.Ed.   course   and   M.Ed.   course,
 directions  may please  be  issued  to  NCTE/HPU  to  cancel ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:00 :::HCHP ­396­

 the   recognition   &   affiliation   of   VCE   in   respect   of   M.Ed.
 course and three basic units of B.Ed. course till necessary
 infrastructure   was established and instructional facilities
 provided as per NCTE norms. . Directions   may also be issued to Revenue Department of
 Govt.   of   Himachal   Pradesh   through   the   Chief   Secretary,
 Govt.  of  H.P.  to   cause  an   enquiry  to   be  conducted   as   to

 how land was registered in the name of the society without
 obtaining   permission   under Section   118(2) of   the   H.P.
 Tenancy and Land Reforms act, 1972. The  Institution   initially     filed   its   reply­objections

 (pages   1991­2049),   wherein   it   was   averred   that   as   against

 requirement of 4000 sq. mts. of land area as pointed out by the

 SIT,   since   the   Institution   was   established     prior   to   NCTE

 Regulations 2014, therefore, the total land required is only 3000

 sq.   mts.   as   per     NCTE   Regulations,   2014   and   the   SIT   has

 wrongly mentioned in its report requirement of 4000 sq. mts. of

 land area. It is averred that SIT has wrongly used words "under

 construction" rather, the floor has already been constructed,but

 could not be furnished properly for the reason that there is a low

 admission of  students  during the past 3­4 years, which fact is

 also evident from the SIT report which specifically provides that

 at present there are 87 (52 first year students plus 35 second

 year   students)   in   B.Ed.   course   and   26   in   first   year   plus   2   in

 second  year     in  M.Ed.   course.  Total  strength   of   college   is   115 ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:00 :::HCHP ­397­

 students   against   the   total   sanctioned   strength   of   400   (200   for

 B.Ed. in first year plus 200 for B.Ed. in second year) and 100 (50

 for   the   first   year   M.Ed.   and   50   for   the   second   year   M.Ed.)

 . totaling 500.   It is averred that   if the two floors which the SIT

 considered   as   under   construction   is   included     in   the   entire

 infrastructure   the   total   area   comes   to   3747   sq.   mts.   against

 required   3000 square meters as per regulations.   It is averred

 that Sh. Ranjeet Singh, who is founder President of the Society,

 is   having   a   very   big   chunk   of   land   in   the   area   where   the

 Institution is situated and total land in the name of Sh. Ranjeet

 Singh including that coming under the institution  is around 6

 hectares.  Therefore, there is no scarcity of land with Sh. Ranjeet

 Singh.     It   is   submitted   that     the   institution   has   already

 furnished   3rd  floor   of   the   building   and     in   the   same   floor   a

 multipurpose   hall   with   an   area   of   2222   sq.feet   has   been

 furnished with all facilities as required under norms.   The boys

 common   room,   class   rooms,   store   rooms   and   staff   toilet   and

 visitors rooms have been provided with modern facilities on the

 second and third floors of the building, which have not been fully

 furnished.     Minor   objections   regarding   library   and   laboratory

 have been removed.  It is averred that Dr. Surekha Devi, who is

 working as Principal,  is fully qualified.  The teachers have been

 appointed as per present strength of students in the B.Ed. and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­398­

 M.Ed. courses.  The strength of college as per the requirement of

 NCTE is  more than enough for the existing number of students

 admitted to the college.   The Institution is paying salary   to the

 . staff as per their eligibility and further PF is being deducted and

 deposited   with   the   EPF   organization.   As   regards   objection   of

 shifting of college to new building, which is under construction,

 it is averred that  on the web portal of NCTE, the Institution has

 specifically   mentioned   the   Khasra   numbers   i.e.   93   and   95   on

 which   the   institution   is   situated   and   the   same   is   in   the

 knowledge of NCTE and till date no objection has been raised by

 the NCTE against the shifting of the institution to new building

 which is having more modern facilities than the old one.   It is

 further averred that there is no violation of provisions of Section

 118(2) of   H.P.   Tenancy   and   Land   Reforms   Act   because   the

 President   and   most   of   the   members   of   the   society   are

 agriculturists of the State and land belongs to them. An inquiry

 in   this   regard   is   already   in   progress   before   the   Deputy

 Commissioner, Kangra,  and  the institution  has explained each

 and everything in that inquiry in its reply. 517 The   Institution   was   got   inspected   by   the   VT     on

 12.6.2018 under the orders of this Court and in its report (pages

 4036­4042),   it   has   been   pointed   out   that   the   building   plan

 submitted by the Institution does not bear important details viz ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­399­

 plot number, total area etc. Building completion certificate has

 not been submitted. Land documents are not completely legible. The   plot   mentioned   in   the   land   documents   and   land   use

 . certificate do not match. As per CD available, multipurpose hall

 does not have  proper dais and public address system. Six rooms

 were shown as against requirement of 10 class room and only

 one store room as against requirement of two store rooms.  The

 CD does not show the staff toilet   and visitors rooms.   As per

 NCTE norms, the faculty is not appointed on regular basis and

 the   non­teaching   staff   is   also   not   appointed     on   regular   basis

 and the salary is not being paid as per UGC pay scale and there

 is no record shown for deduction of EPF/PF of the staffs. 518 The Institute(s) has   filed an application (CMP No.

 7351/2018)   (pages   6108­6113)   for   placing   on   record   the

 additional   material,   wherein   it   is   averred   that   since   no

 permission under Section 118(2) of the H.P. Tenancy and Land

 Reforms Act, 1972 was earlier obtained by the Society, as such,

 the society has applied for the same to the Deputy Commissioner

 Kangra, who vide letter No. 249/Bhu.Su.Sha. Dated 19.3.2011

 recommended   the   case   of   the   society   for   permission   under Section 118(2) of H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972. 519 After   going   through   the   reply­objections

 aforementioned so also the contents of CMP No. 7351/2018, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­400­

 we   are   of   the   opinion   that   the   Institution   has   requisite

 infrastructural facilities to run the courses and accordingly,

 the   Institution   is   permitted   to   run   the   courses   that   are

 . currently being run by it. 520 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. 115) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute has found that the approval of the NCTE has been

 obtained     fraudulently     as   no   building   has   been   found

 constructed on the land shown in the name of the society. There   is   an   acute     shortage   of   infrastructural   and

 instructional  facilities. 522 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 A criminal  case may please be   ordered to be registered
 either by CBI or State Vigilance & Anti Corruption Bureau,
 Himachal Pradesh against Sh. H.K. Chaand and others for
 obtaining     recognition/affiliation   from   NCTE/HPU/HP
 Board   of   Secondary   Education   on   the   basis   of   false ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­401­

 information/affidavits   regarding   the   land     and   built   up
 area and other infrastructure available with the society. Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional   area   and   recognition   &   affiliation   had   been

 . obtained on the basis of misrepresentation and submission
 of false information/documents/affidavits, directions may
 please   be   issued   to   NCTE,   HPU   and   HP   Board   of

 Secondary Education not to allow any further admissions. 523 The   Institution   has   filed   its   reply   to   the   report

 submitted  by the  SIT  (pages  3229­3339),  wherein  it is  averred

 that   the   Institution   is   running   under   the   aegis   of     Northern

 International Educational and Research Centre and the NIERC

 Society has taken land on lease from Sh. H.K. Chaand Saini vide

 lease deed executed and registered on 28.11.2002 for 6954 sq.

 mts.   of   land   comprising  in   Khasra   Nos.   1001/307,   1151/309,

 310,   1154/314,   1156/315   and   from   Anshul   Saini   vide   lease

 deed executed and registered on 28.11.2002 for 4408 sq. mts. of

 land   comprising   in   Khasra   Nos.   311,   313,   1217/319,   320,

 1157/315,   1152/309,   1153/309,   1155/314   in   Mohal   and

 Mauza   Ghurkari,   Tehsil   and   District   Shimla.   Both   the   lease

 deeds were initially for 35 years, however later on the same were

 extended for a period of 99 years.  It is averred that the SIT while

 making   observation     in   this   report   has   failed   to   take   into

 consideration  the revenue records in its true perspective as the

 land   coming   under   possession   of   the   Institution   has   still   not ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­402­

 been  partitioned as the same is jointly owned by five co­sharers

 being the brothers, but each co­sharer is having his own defined

 possession over the land.  As regards requirement of permission

 . under Section 118 of H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act,  it is

 averred that since all the members of the NIERC society are bona

 fide   Himachalis   and   were   having   agriculture   certificate,

 therefore, neither the Sub­Registrar nor any other authority ever

 persuaded the society to take permission under Section 118 of

 the H.P. Tenancy and land Reforms Act at the time of transfer of

 land in the name of the society and or at the time of the lease of

 the   land   nor   till   date,   the     State   Government   has   asked   the

 society to take such permission.  It is further averred that all the

 deficiencies as pointed out by the SIT have been removed. 524 We   need   not   to     delve   into   the   aforesaid   reply­

 affidavit   as   the   Institution   was   got   inspected   by   the   VT   on

 11.6.2018 under the orders of this Court and in its report (pages

 3951­3955),   it   has   pointed   out   that   the   document     retarding

 permission under Section 118(2) of the H.P. Tenancy and Land

 Reforms Act for purchase of land  in the name of the society was

 not   submitted.     It   was   also   not   clear   that   the   building   is

 constructed   on   the   land   shown   in   jamabandi.     The   building

 completion  certificate has not been submitted by the Institution

 in   support   of   the   building   completion.     There   is   yet   another ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­403­

 report of the VT i available on record (pages 3072­3078), wherein

 no instructional or infrastructural deficiencies were found. 525 In  view  of   above,   we  permit  the  Institution   to   run

 . the courses, as are being run by it. Fa)2: R.C. College of Education (B.Ed.), Dhanot, Tehsil 

 Jawalamukhi,District Kangra. Fa)3: R.C. College of Education (D.El.Ed.), Dhanot, 
 Tehsil Jawalamukhi,District Kangra. The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 85­91)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   these

 Institutes has noticed various deficiencies  in infrastructural

 as   well   as   instructional   facilities.   On   the   basis   of   such

 findings, it has been prayed that­ 1. Since the  Institution lacks in infrastructure  and

 the   instructional   area,   directions   may     please   be

 issued   to   NCTE/HPU/H.P.   Board   of   Secondary
 Education not to allow any further admissions either in

 B.Ed.   or   D.El.Ed   course   till   these   deficiencies   are
 removed by the R.C. College of Education/Society. 2. Directions   be   issued   to   Revenue   Department   of
 Government   of   Himachal   Pradesh   through   the   Chief
 Secretary, Government of Himachal Pradesh, to cause
 an enquiry to be conducted  as to how land/lease was
 registered in the name of the society without obtaining
 permission  under Section  118(2) of   the  H.P.  Tenancy
 and Land Reforms Act, 1972. ­404­

 527 The   Institution,   in   turn,     has   filed   its   reply­

 submissions   (1176­1227),   wherein   all   the   objections   raised

 . by   the   SIT   have   been   controverted.     It   is   averred   that   the

 discrepancies as raised by SIT, have partly been rectified and

 reported   to   Member   Secretary   NCTE   and   the   latter   has

 accepted   the   said   affidavit   and   has   directed   for   admitting

 students in B.Ed. course for academic session 2017­2019. To

 meet   the   discrepancy   of   built   up   area   and   size   of   the

 multipurpose hall, the construction is being carried out. In

 the   multipurpose   hall,   the   public   address   system   and

 furniture   have   already   been   provided.     In   library,   the

 requisite   area   has   already   been   met   with   by  attaching   one

 reading   room   of   59   sq.   mts.     More   books   have   been

 purchased   for   library   vide   order   of   bills   annexed   as

 Annexures R­77/G and Annexure R­77/H. More online and

 off­line journals have been purchased vide bills annexed as

 Annexure R­77/J.  Art and Craft Resource  Centre has been

 strengthened   with more equipments.   In the chemistry lab,

 tables with sinks have been provided.   Requisite number of

 faculty members have been appointed and advertisements for

 selection   through   properly   constituted   selection   committee

 have been issued on 8.3.2018 and 10.3.2018.  The lease deed ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:01 :::HCHP ­405­

 of land in favour of the Institution  has been  registered with

 the Tehsil Office and no requirement of seeking permission

 under Section   118 of   H.P.   Tenancy   and   Land   Reforms   Act

 . was made by the registration authority. 528 The   VT   in   compliance   to   the   directions   of   this

 Court   visited   the   Institution     on   13.6.2018       and   filed   its

 report (pages 3080­3081), wherein it was observed that the

 multipurpose   hall   was   without   public   address   system   and

 furniture   and   smaller   by   386   sq.   ft.   than   the   norms.   The

 library   was   having   an   area   of   about   844.66   sq.   ft.   being

 shared with D.El.Ed. Course, sitting capacity was 56 and it

 has 5178 books as per accession register. No on line journals

 and CD­ROMs were available. Chemistry Lab was also not up

 to   the   mark.   There   were   no   proper   tables   with   sinks   for

 demonstration   purposes   and   Art   &   Craft   Centre   was   not

 having adequate equipment. 529 There is yet another report of the VT available on

 record   (pages   4043­4049),   wherein   it   was   noticed   that   the

 building is  under  construction  on  second  piece  of  land  (on

 lease)   basis,   which   is   50   mts.   away   from   the   existing

 building,   whereas     as   per   the   regulations,     the   building

 should be on one piece of land as per the required built­up

 area   i.e.   3000   sq.   mts   for   running   the   Institution   in   a ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­406­

 composite   manner   i.e.   B.Ed.   and   D.El.   Ed.   Courses.     The

 total  built  up   area  is  not  indicated   on   the  submitted   plan. Also,   the   building     completion   certificate   issued   by   the

 . government   competent   authority   was   not   submitted.     The

 college has appointed  the faculty on part time basis and the

 salary is not being paid  as per the UGC/State Govt. scales. EPF/PF   is   also   not   being   deducted   from   the   salary   of   the

 faculty/staff.  Non­teaching staff including Peon has not been

 appointed.  r
 530 The   Institution     has   filed   its   affidavit   (6478­

 6479)   wherein   all   the   objections   raised   by   the   SIT   and   VT

 have   been   controverted   pointwise.     It   is   averred   that     the

 Society is running  one unit of B.Ed. and one unit of D.El.Ed. and as per NCTE norms, where an Institute runs one unit of

 B.Ed. and one Unit of D.El.Ed. The Institute should possess

 3000 sq. mts. of built up area, which is highly unreasonable

 and unjust. Though the area which the society possesses is

 sufficient,   but   still   the   society   has   started   with   the

 construction   in   order   to   meet   the   requirement   of   NCTE

 norms, which  also finds mention in the report of the NCTE. The deficiencies of multipurpose hall, library and chemistry

 lab as per the NCTE norms have been removed. The society

 has appointed   the requisite number of teaching faculty on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­407­

 regular basis as per the norms of NCTE and has written to

 the University for the purpose of approval. 531 After   going   through   the   reply   and

 . affidavit/undertaking aforementioned, we are of the opinion

 that the Institution has requisite infrastructural facilities to

 run the courses and accordingly,  the Institution is permitted

 to run the courses that are currently being run by it. 532 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. Fb)1 Vaishno College of Engineering, Village 

 Thapkour, Tehsil Nurpur, District Kangra. 
 533 The SIT in its progress report No.9 (pages 63­71)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has arrived at the following conclusions:­

 The   Society   had   obtained   approval   of   AICTE   by
 misrepresentation   of   facts   about   ownership   of   land.
 The   same   piece   of   land   was   also   included   in   the
 application for approval of B. Tech courses from AICTE
 which   had   earlier   had   been   shown   for   obtaining
 approval   of   B.Ed   courses   from   NCTE.   The   total   land
 area was fraudulently shown as 10 acres whereas the
 society was in possession of about 7 acres of land. The
 information   uploaded   on   AICTE   portal   for   obtaining ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­408­

 approval   for   additional   course,   increase   in   annual
 intake   and   extension   of   approval   was   found   to   be
 false. The local revenue authorities (the then Sub­ Registrar,

 . Nurpur) committed grave irregularities and violation of
 Section 118 (2) of the HP Tenancy & Land Reforms Act,
 1972 by way of registration of land in the name of the

 Society without the permission to be obtained by the
 Society under the said Section118(2) from Govt of H.P.

 The then Halka Patwari issued false certificate about
 ownership   of   land   in   Acres   by   the   Society   certifying
 that the   land owned by the Society was 10 Acres, 1

 Kanal and 7 Marlas whereas it was 7.1 Acres only. 534 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­

 a   criminal   case   may   please   be   ordered   to   be   registered
 either by CBI or State Vigilance & Anti­Corruption Bureau,

 Himachal Pradesh against Sh. Ranjit Singh Pathania and
 others for obtaining recognition from AICTE on the basis of

 false   information/affidavits   regarding   the   ownership   of
 land. since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional   area   and   recognition   &   affiliation   had   been
 obtained on the basis of misrepresentations & submission
 of false information/documents/affidavits, directions may
 please be issued to AICTE/HPTU to cancel the recognition
 & affiliation of Vaishno College of Engineering. directions may kindly be issued to the Secretary (Revenue),
 Govt, of H.P. through the Chief Secretary, Govt. of H.P. to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­409­

 take   appropriate   action   against   the   then   Sub­Registrar,
 Nurpur   for   registering   the   land   in   favour   of   the   Society
 without   any   permission   under Section   118   (2) of   the
 Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972 and the then Halka

 . Patwari   Sh.   Dhyan   Singh   for   having   issued   a   false   land

 ownership certificate in favour of the  Society  in Acres. The
 land registered in the  name of the  Society also be ordered

 to be cancelled by the Revenue Authorities. 535 The  Institution initially   filed its reply (pages 1991­

 2049), wherein it controverted all the objections noticed by the

 SIT.       We   need   not   to   refer     here   the   averments   made   in   the

 aforesaid reply  as the Institution was got inspected by the VT on

 5.6.2018 under the orders of this Court and in its report (pages

 2956­2980­), no significant deficiency was found by the VT. 536 The Institution  was again  got inspected by the VT

 on 12.6.2018 under the orders of this Court and in its report,

 following deficiencies were noticed: ­410­

 537 Mr.   Rajeev   Singh   Pathania,     President,   Mata

 Vaishno   Devi   Educational   Society,   has   filed   a   supplementary

 affidavit (pages 6114­6127) controverting therein the deficiencies

 . found by the VT. It is averred that  the Institution had submitted

 each   and   every   document   with   all   relevant   details   to   the   VT,

 which have also been annexed with the supplementary affidavit

 as Annexure R­70/7, which would go to show that there is no

 difference   of   plot/Khasra   numbers.   The   Institution   has   shown

 each   and   every   document   to   the   VT   to   establish   that   the

 Institution   has   dais   and   public   address   system   in   the

 multipurpose   hall   and   has   also   shown   all   rooms,   toilets   and

 storerooms   to   the   VT,   which   have   been   verified   by   the   VT. Lastly,  it  is  averred  that     each  and  every number  of  the  staff,

 whether   teaching   or   non­teaching,   has   been   appointed   on

 regular basis. 538 The Institute has also filed an application (CMP

 No. 7351/2018) (pages 6108­6113) for placing on record the

 additional   material,   wherein   it   is   averred   that   since   no

 permission   under Section   118(2) of   the   H.P.   Tenancy   and

 Land Reforms Act, 1972 was earlier obtained by the Society,

 as such, the society has applied for the same to the Deputy

 Commissioner Kangra, who vide letter No. 249/Bhu.Su.Sha. Dated   19.3.2011,   recommended   the   case   of   the   society   for ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­411­

 permission   under  Section   1182)  of H.P.   Tenancy  and   Land

 Reforms Act, 1972 . 539 After   going   through   the   reply­objections

 . aforementioned so also the contents of CMP No. 7351/2018,

 we   are   of   the   opinion   that   the   Institution   has   requisite

 infrastructural facilities to run the courses and accordingly,

 the   Institution   is   permitted   to   run   the   courses   that   are

 currently being run by it. 540 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. Fb) 1: Doon International College of Education,
 Rajban, Paonta Sahib, Sirmour. 541 The SIT in its progress report No.7 (pages 73­81)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has arrived at the following conclusions:­ 1. The seven acres of land on which the Primary School
 and the B.Ed College exist, had been given on lease on
 20.4.2004   to   Doon   Valley   International   Educational
 Society   stands   in   the   name   of   Director  of   Industries,
 Govt.   of   H.P.   in   revenue   records.   In   view   of   this
 position, it is not understood as to how the CCI leased
 the said land and the building erected thereon to the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:02 :::HCHP ­412­

 aforesaid   Society   without   having   any   ownership   or
 lease rights over the said land & building. 2. The Society had taken the land & building on lease
 basis for a period of 30 years on a nominal rent of Rs

 . 10000/­ per annum( without any future increase) to run
 an English medium Senior Secondary School. However,
 the   Society   did   not   have   the   mandate   to   run   a   B.Ed

 College from the said land & building. It appears  that
 land & building leased out to the Society was misused
 to   set   up   a   B.Ed     College   in   the   said   building.     The

 Society   did   not   disclose   this   fact   to   the   NCTE   in   their
 application. 3. Sh. G.S. Brar had given a false affidavit to the NCTE

 that the Society had a built up area of 4047 sq. mtrs as

 against  an actual built up area of 2507.39 sq. mtrs. 4. The institution lacks in infrastructure as there was no

 multi­ purpose hall, Boys/Girls Common Room and even
 the labs had not been equipped as per NCTE norms and
 a primary school was being run from the same premises

 which reduced the actual space available to the College. There was no provision for safe drinking water and the
 institute   also   lacks   in   various   other   infrastructural

 facilities. 5. There was no regular Principal and there is  shortage
 of 6 faculty members. The officiating Principal Dr. Vinod
 Kumar   had   reportedly   done   his   Ph.D   from   the
 controversial   CMJ   University,   Shillong.   None   of   the
 faculty   member   was   approved     by   the   HP   University
 except   the   Principal   who   is   approved   as   Assistant
 Professor. ­413­

 542 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered

 . either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anit­   Corruption

 Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh.   G.S.   Brar   and
 others for obtaining recognition from NCTE on the basis

 of   false   information/affidavits   regarding   the   land   and
 built up are and other infrastructure available with the
 Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional area and recognition had been obtained on
 the   basis   of   misrepresentation   &   submission   of   false

 information/   documents/affidavits,   directions   may

 please be issued to NCTE/HPU to cancel the recognition
 & affiliation of the College. 3.   The   so   called   30   years   lease   executed   by   Cement

 Corporation   of   India   may   please   be   ordered   to   be
 cancelled       after   the   present   session   is   completed. Directions   may   also   be   issued   to   the   Director   of
 Industries, Govt. of Himachal Pradesh who is the owner

 of  the  land in question, as  per the  revenue  records, to
 determine the status of 7 acres of land in question and

 take   further     necessary   action   as   per     law   for
 cancellation of the lease and reclamation of the land. 
 543 The  Institution initially   filed its reply (pages 1862­

 1931), wherein it is averred that the  discrepancies  raised by SIT

 have   partly   been   rectified.     The   Institution   has   appointed   one

 Principal   and   seven   Assistant   Professors.     For   making   regular

 appointment,   advertisements   have   been   issued   in   daily ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:03 :::HCHP ­414­

 newspapers. Request for constituting selection committee by the

 Himachal   Pradesh   University   has   been   made.     For  increase   of

 number of journals, orders have been placed to the concerned

 . quarters. More books have been purchased.  The Institution has

 obtained the building on lease from Cement Corporation of India. Permission to start higher educational courses in the leased land

 was   also   obtained   from   Department   of   Industries.     The

 multipurpose hall as constructed by the Cement Corporation of

 India is being used having capacity of more than 200 persons.  It

 is further averred that  the SIT has ignored  to take into account

 the   entire   infrastructure   available   with   the   Institution   for

 running B.Ed. course. The Institution  has more than 1500 sq.

 mts of constructed area.  The area mentioned in the affidavit of

 Mr. G.S. Brar was an error, since the measurement was not done

 by   a   qualified   person.   There   was   no   intention   to   take   any

 advantage   by   showing   more   area,   as   the   required   area   was

 already   available   with   the   Institution.     The   Institution   has   got

 sufficient   infrastructure for running B.Ed. course and all labs

 have been set up. The area of the library has also been increased

 by shifting   the same to another hall. Boys and Girls   common

 rooms   have   also   been   set   up.   All   the   labs,   library   and   other

 infrastructure     are   fully   equipped   and   have   further   been

 strengthened with equipments and materials. ­415­

 544 The Chairman of the Institution, namely, Mr. Avneet

 Singh   Brar,   filed   a   supplementary   affidavit   (pages   4438­4379),

 wherein it is averred that the Institution  is having built up area

 . of 2461.11 sq. mts. for B.Ed. course against the requirement of

 1500   sq.mts   as   is   evident   from   the   certificate   issued   by   the

 Architect, annexed with the reply as Annexure R45­A.  Steps for

 selection  of the faculty members have been taken and selection

 committee   has   also   been   constituted   and   the   interviews   are

 going   to   be   fixed   with   the   consent   of   the   nominees   of   the

 University.  The needful will be done  before the commencement

 of ensuing academic session.   Water purifier has been installed. More   books,   journals   and   equipments   have   been   purchased. The Institution has undertaken to pay the salary to the faculty in

 the   B.ed.   course   @   Rs.21600/­   per   month   w.e.f.   August   2018

 and for the Principal @ Rs.37,400/­ per month respectively. 545 Yet another supplementary affidavit was filed by the

 Chairman   of   the   Institution   (pages   5832­5836),   reiterating

 therein that the institution is having built up area of 2461.11 sq.

 mts. 546 After   going   through   the   reply   and

 supplementary   affidavits   aforementioned,   we   are   of   the

 opinion   that   the   Institution   has   requisite   infrastructural ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:03 :::HCHP ­416­

 facilities to run the courses and accordingly,  the Institution

 is permitted to run the courses that are currently being run

 by it. . 547 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. Fb)2: SIRDA   Institute   of   Engineering   and  
 Technology,  Kanaid, Sundernagar, Mandi.
 548 The SIT in its progress report No.8 (pages 37­46)

 after   scrutiny   of   records   and   physical   inspection   of   this

 Institute has found that   the society has obtained approval

 to   start   only   Women's   Engineering   Institute   and   its

 subsequent   conversion   to   co­ed.   institute     on   the   basis   of

 misrepresentation  of  facts  leading to  land   owned   by  it,  the

 society was not eligible to start the engineering institute as it

 was not having adequate  land in its possession as per norms

 prescribed by AICTE. 549 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered
 either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anit­   Corruption
 Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh.     Nikk     Ram ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:03 :::HCHP ­417­

 Chaudhary   and   others   for   obtaining
 recognition/affiliation   from   AICTE/HPU/HPTU   on   the
 basis of false information/affidavits regarding the land ,
 built up area and other infrastructural and instructional

 . facilities available with the Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional area and recognition & affiliation had been

 obtained on the basis of misrepresentation & submission
 of false information/affidavits, directions may please be
 issued   to   AICTE/HPTU   not   to   allow   any   further

 admissions and to cancel the recognition & affiliation of
 SIRDA   Institute   of   Engineering   Technology   after   the
 present batch pass out. 3.The Principal Secretary (Revenue), Govt. of H.P. may be

 directed to withdraw the permission granted u/s 118(2) of   the   H.P.   Land   and   Tenancy   Reforms   Act,   1972   on
 24.6.2011 for 37­05­13 bighas of land as the society had

 violated terms and conditions of the said permission by
 not using the land for the purpose for which permission

 had been accorded,within the stipulated period. Further,
 proceedings to recover the land as per provisions of the

 said   Act   and   Rules   framed   thereunder   should   be
 initiated by the Department of Revenue,Govt. of H.P.  

  

 550 The Institution was got inspected by the VT under

 the  orders   of   this  Court    and   in  its   report  (pages   5671­5703),

 following deficiencies were noticed: ­418­ 2. Land   conversion   certificate   in   original   was   not
 presented. 3. Approved building plans were not accepted. 4. Occupation certificate was not accepted. . 5. The   SIRDA   Institute   of   Engineering   &   Technology,

 SIRDA   Polytechnic   and   SIRDA   D­Pharmacy   are
 running   in   the   same   campus   and   same   building

 without   any   physical   partitions   under   the   name   of
 SIRDA Group of Institutions.   Separate tones of the
 building   are   used   for   separate   courses   but   all   are

 interconnected. 6. Only   17   class   rooms   are   available   for   UG   instead   of
 required 29 as per norms. 7. Only 27 labs are available for UG instead of required

 48 as per norms. 8. Only   4   class   rooms   for   PG   are   available   instead   of
 required 6 as per norms. 9. Seminar halls  are  not available  but, construction of  a
 Hall is complete which is sufficient to accommodate

 3­Seminar halls, but partitions and furniture is still
 not available. 10. Computer   Center,   Language   lab,   First   AID   room,
 training   &   placement   office,   Research   labs   are   not

 available. 11. Areas   of   12   labs,   5   class   rooms,   library,   Exam
 Control   Office,   Boys   common   room,     Girls   common
 room, (available) are found to be less than required
 as per AICTE norms. 12. Fire NOC was not available. 13. Construction   of   all   weather   approach   road   is   still
 going on. ­419­ 14. Approved   building   plans   for   the   new   construction
 were not presented. 15. It   is   worth   mentioning   here   that   lot   of   new
 construction   work   is   going   on   but,   since   the   work

 . was not complete the same has not been considered. 16. Workshops, various  labs, library and  various  other
 infrastructural   facilities   are   shared   with   SIRDA

 Polytechnic. 551 The   Institution   filed   its   reply   (pages   6082­6107)

 wherein it controverted the report submitted by the SIT and VT

 point­wise, which reads as follow:­

 I. INSTRUCTIONAL

 That   the   infrastructural   deficiencies/defects   as   stated
 are wrong and denied. It is humbly submitted that the
 Special Investigation Team report wrongly states that the

 society   has   misrepresented     and   concealed   material
 facts from the AICTE about the exact position of the land

 while   obtaining   initial   approval   and   at   the   time   of
 conversion to Co­Educational Institute.   In this regard it

 is submitted that the Society had specifically mentioned
 in   its   initial   application   for   approval,   the   distance

 between   the   two   pieces   of   land   to   be   1.00   km.     Gthe
 distance given in fact was revenue distance which was
 duly   considered   by   the   Expert   Visiting   Committee,
 Scrutiny   Committee,   Regional   Recommendation
 Committee,   Standing   Hearing   Committee   and   AICTE,
 whereafter the society was accorded sanction to run the
 respondent   College   vide   communication   dated
 30.06.2009   only   after   it   duly   fulfilled   the   requisite
 conditions with regard to the availability of land to run ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:03 :::HCHP ­420­

 the   Engineering   College.   Likewise   at   the   time   of
 conversion the Society had specifically mentioned in its
 communications for approval dated 21.1.2010, Annexure
 RA, the distance between the two pieces of land to be 10

 . kms.     However   the   permission   for   conversion   was

 initially declined on which CWP No. 6351 of 2011 had to
 be filed before the Hon'ble High Court of H.P. The said

 CWP   was   disposed   of   vide   orders   dated   6.9.2012,
 Annexure   RB   as   the   AICTE   accorded   approval   vide
 communication dated 19.6.2012.   Thereafter vide order

 dated 10.4.2017 the AICTE declined the application for
 extension  of   approval  for  academic   Session  2017­2018
 on   which   CWP     No.849   of   2017   had   to   be   preferred

 before the Hon'ble High Court of H.P.  The said CWP was

 disposed of vide orders dated 12.10.2017, Annexure RC
 on   the   basis   of   the   Inspection   Report   dated   25.9.2017
 submitted by a Committee headed by an Hon'ble Retired

 Judge   of   Punjab   and   Haryana   High   Court,   duly
 constituted by the AICTE.   The time to time inspections

 by the EVCs constituted by the AICTE go on to show that
 there has not been any misrepresentation or concealment

 of   facts   from   the   AICTE   with   regard   to   the   location   of
 land. That the SIT report further wrongly states that the area
 available with the replying respondent Institute is only
 6419.60 Sq. Meters as against the mentioned 12,238 Sq.
 Meters.   It is submitted that only the carpet area of the
 class   rooms, labs  and   workshops  has   been  taken  into
 consideration.  The common areas, amenity areas, hostel
 area   and   the   area   under   construction   has   not   been
 considered   at   all.     Moreover   the   plinth   area   of   the
 construction raised ought to have been considered which ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:03 :::HCHP ­421­

 has   not   been   done,   reducing   the   area   calculated,
 multipurpose hall, Girls Common Room, Digital Library,
 Computer Centre in the institute.   All such facilities are
 available.    It   is  further  wrong    and  specifically  denied

 . that   the   Principal's   Office,   Conference   Room,   Main

 Officer, Library Rooms, and Workshops were found to be
 smaller in size.  The team has wrongly calculated carpet

 area instead of plinth area resulting in the reduction of
 size.  As regards the labs of D Pharmacy being inside the
 College it is submitted that an affidavit in terms of the

 Rule   applicable   at   the   relevant   time   for   integrated
 campus   of   Engineering,   and   Polytechnic   Courses,
 Annexure RD was submitted by the respondent College

 pursuant   to   resolution   Annexure   RG   shows   that   the

 integrated   campus   is   required   and   that   there   is   no
 deficiency in the fulfillment of requisite formalities by the
 respondent College. This coupled with the fact that the

 earlier inspections have also not objected in this regard,
 there is no illegality in the sharing of facilities by the two

 Institutions. It is wrong and specifically denied that as
 against   the   requisite   39   Class   Rooms   and   9   Tutorial

 Rooms the Institute was having only 10 class rooms and
 7 tutorial rooms. In this regard it is was submitted that

 out of the approval Six Courses the respondent College in
 only   running   the   Courses   of   Civil   Engineering   and
 Computer Science Engineering.   The respondent College
 is not running the Courses of Information & Technology
 and   Electronic   &   Communication   Engineering,   since   th
 eyear   2009   and   2014   respectively.    As   per  the   AICTE
 norms   the   respondent   College   require   24   class   rooms
 and   8   tutorial   rooms   which   are   sufficient     for   the   4
 Courses presently being run by the respondent College. ­422­

 Moreover   7   class   rooms   and   3   tutorial   rooms   are
 presently   under   completion   and   would   be   ready   in   all
 respects within 45 days and further seven class rooms
 and   three   tutorial   rooms   are   under   construction   and

 . would   be   ready   in   all   respects   within   a   period   of   one

 year.   All these facts were brought to the notice of the
 Inspection Team, who had also taken note and inspected

 the   same   but   strangely   enough   the   same   do   not   form
 part of the Report. II. INSTRUCTIONAL

 That the Instructional deficiencies/defects as stated are
 wrong and denied.   As regards the appointment of Dr.
 Vikram Singh, Principal which is required to be ratified

 by the HPTU it is submitted that as per the AICTE norms

 all persons who are M.Sc./MCA prior to the year 2010
 are   eligible   to   be   enrolled   for   M.Tech/PH.D   and   after
 experience of five years are eligible for appointment as

 Principal. Dr. Vikram Singh is eligible and his case has
 been  sent  for ratification to  the  HPTU  who  has  further

 sought   clarification   in  this   regard   from   the   AICTE.     As
 regards the number of faculty members it is submitted

 that as of date there are 74 faculty member working with
 the respondent college.   As per the latest AICTE norms

 the teacher­student ratio has been reduced to 1:20.  The
 respondent   is   only   having   206   students   as   of   date,
 against   which   the   number   of   faculty   members   if
 sufficient.  The list of students enrolled is Annexure RH.
 It   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   proper   faculty
 cadre ratio is not maintained or Selection Committee has
 not been constituted in terms of the norms of the HPTU.
 It is wrong and specifically denied that the labs are not
 well   equipped   or   that   there   are   only   100   PCs.     It   is ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­423­

 submitted that as of now there are 240 PCs functioning
 in   the   respondent   college   which   is   sufficient   for   the
 students   admitted.   It   is   further   wrong   and   specifically
 denied   that   the   Library   is   without   adequate   title   and

 . numbers of volumes or that there are no multimedia PCs

 in the library.  It is further wrong and specifically denied
 that the reading room capacity is only 70.  It is submitted

 that the SIT team failed to take into consideration all the
 three reading rooms, capacity whereof is more than 250
 and has only considered one reading room there too the

 team has wrongly reduced the seating capacity by about 30.  As regards the number of workshops and instructors
 it is submitted that against the permitted intake capacity

 of 1800 student there are only 206 students undergoing

 their   studies   in   the   respondent   college.     Against   the
 running   four   Courses   of   Engineering,   the   respondent
 college   is   having   five   workshops   for   which   five

 instructors   have   been   appointed.     The   respondent
 College is have 27 laboratories in all but keeping in view

 the students strength only six lab attendants have been
 recruited.  The respondent College is making payment of

 salary on the basis of  the salary settled with the faculty
 and staff recruited.  The staff and faculty are being paid

 the   basic   pay   as   fixed   by   the   Sixth   Pay   Commission.
 This is because of the law intake of students resulting in
 the   reduced   income   and   the   expenditure   involved   in
 maintaining   the   existing   infrastructure   and   enhancing
 the infrastructure. III. CONCLUSION & PRAYER
 That   the   conclusion   drawn   in  the   report   are   false   and
 incorrect.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   the
 Society obtained the approval to stated the  Institute  or ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­424­

 subsequent   conversion   by   misrepresenting   facts.     It   is
 wrong and specifically denied that the Society was not
 eligible   to   state   the   Engineering   College   or   was   not
 having   adequate   land   as   per   the   norms   of   the   AICTE. . Submissions   already   made   are   reasserted   to   avoid

 repetition.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   a
 criminal   case   is   required   to   be   registered   against   the

 Society or its members or that the Society or its members
 have   obtained   recognition/affiliation   from   the
 AICTE/HPTU/HPU by giving false information/affidavits

 regarding   land,   built­up   area,   infrastructural   and
 instructional   facilities.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically
 denied that the recognition/affiliation of the respondent

 college is liable to be withdrawn.  It is further wrong and

 specifically denied  that  the  permission  accorded  to  the
 respondent College under Section 118 of the HP Tenancy
 and Land Reforms Act 1972 is liable to be withdrawn. The   report   of   the   SIT   being   based   upon   false   and
 incorrect facts is liable to be rejected and the petition qua

 the respondent College ordered to be dismissed.
 SPECIAL EXPERT COMMITTEE (AICTE) REPORT 5.   That the reply to the report submitted by the Special
 Expert Committee (AICTE) is as under:­

 That the respondent Institute was informed of inspection
 of its Engineering College by the  AICTE, through mail  on
 10.7.2018   at   4:18   pm   whereafter   the   inspection   was
 done   on   13.7.2017.   The   respondent   Institute   was   not
 apprised of the information to be made available to the
 inspecting team.  The respondent Institute offered full co­
 operation to the inspecting team, though the team was
 most un co­operative.   It is submitted that  the certified
 copy of Jamabandi of the land of the Institute, Musabi ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­425­

 and   original   Land   Conversion   Certificate   were   not
 available   at   the   relevant   time   with   the   respondent
 Institute   and   as   such   photocopies   of   the   same   were
 made available.  I had offered to self­attest the same to

 . which   the   team   refused.   Likewise   original   approved

 building   plans   and   occupation   certificate   were   not
 available   and   photocopies   were   offered   which   the

 inspecting team refused to accept.   I had offered to self
 the same but the team refused.   It is humbly submitted
 that the originals of these documents had been used up

 during the obtaining of sanctions, repeated inspections,
 filing of Court cases and as such it was not possible to
 produce the same.   However, the photocopies produced

 and sought to be produced were office copies retained by

 the respondent Institute and as such the same would not
 have   in   any   manner   affected   either   the   inspection   or
 submission  of  the  present  report  by the  Special  Expert

 Committee. That as regards the Engineering, and Polytechnic Course

 being   run   in   the   same   campus   and   building   without
 partition and the same being interconnected, as already

 stated supra it is submitted that an affidavit in terms of
 the  Rule  application at  the  relevant  time  for integrated

 campus   of   Engineering,   and   Polytechnic   Courses,
 Annexure RD was submitted by the respondent College
 pursuant  to  resolution Annexure  RE.   Reminder in this
 regard Annexure RF was submitted was on 25.6.2012.
 The   report   of   the     AICTE   generated   on   14.2.2012,
 Annexure   RG   shows   that   the   integrated   campus   is
 required and that there is no deficiency in the fulfillment
 of  requisite   formalities  by  the   respondent  College.  This
 coupled   with   the   fact   that   the   earlier   inspections   have ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­426­

 also not objected in this regard, there is no illegality in
 the running of the two Institutions in the same campus
 and building. That it is wrong and  specifically denied that as against

 . the  requisite  20  Class  Rooms  the  Institute  was  having

 only 17 Class Rooms. In this regard it is submitted that
 out of the approved Six Courses, the respondent College

 in   only   running   the   Course   of   Civil   Engineering,
 Mechanical   Engineering,   Electrical   Engineering   and
 Computer Science Engineering. The respondent College is

 not running the Course of Information & Technology and
 Electronic & Communication Engineering since the year
 2009 and 2014 respectively. As per the AICTE norms the

 respondent   College   requires   24   class   rooms   and   8

 tutorial rooms for six courses. The respondent College is
 having 17 class rooms and 6 tutorial rooms which are
 sufficient   for  the   4   courses   presently  being   run   by   the

 respondent   College.   Moreover   7   Class   rooms   and   3
 tutorial rooms are presently under completion and would

 be   ready   in   all   respects   within   45   days   and   further
 seven class  rooms and  three  tutorial  rooms  and  under

 construction and would be ready in all respects within a
 period of  one year. All these facts were brought  to the

 notice of the Inspection  Team, who had also taken note
 and inspected the same but strangely enough the same
 do not form part of the report. That   as   regards  the   number  of   Laboratories     being  27
 against the required 48 it is submitted that against the
 permitted intake  capacity of 1800 student there are only
 206 students undergoing their studies in the respondent
 college. Against the running four courses of Engineering,
 the respondent  college  is  having 27 Laboratories  in all ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­427­

 but  keeping in view  the students  strength only six  lab
 attendants have been recruited. That as regards the number of 4 Class Rooms against
 the required 6 for PC courses it is submitted that there

 . are   only   26   students   undergoing   their   studies   in   the

 respondent  college. The  respondent    College  is already
 having   4   class   rooms   and   2   tutorials.   The   inspection

 team   has   not   mentioned   that   7   class   rooms   and     3
 tutorial   rooms   are   presently   under     completion   and
 would be ready in all aspects within 45 days and further

 seven   class   rooms   and   three   tutorial   rooms   are   under
 construction and would be ready in all respects within a
 period of   one year. All these facts were brought to the

 notice of the Inspection Team, who had also taken note

 and inspected the same but strangely enough the same
 do not form part of the report. That as regards the seminar halls, the same are ready

 and the respondent College is in the process of making
 partition   and   arranging   furniture   for   the   same,   which

 process would be completed in a period of  almost there
 months. That   a   computer   center,   language   labs,   firs   ­aid   room,
 training   and placement office, research labs are being

 run   on   a   integrated   basis   in   the   college   campus.   The
 arrangements   to   run   the   same   from   different   rooms   is
 under   way   and   the   same   would   be   completed   within
 three months. That it is wrong and specifically denied that the area of
 12   labs,  5   class  room,  library  exam­control  office   boys
 common   rooms,   girls   common   rooms   is   deficient.   It   is
 submitted   that   only   the   carpet   area   of   the   rooms   has
 been   taken   into   consideration.   The   plinth   are   of   the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­428­

 construction   raised   ought   to   have     been   considered
 which has not  been done, reducing the area calculated,
 marginally. That   the   Fire   NOC   as   per   the   latest   norms   has   been

 . applied   for   approval   whereof   is   awaited.   All   weather

 approach   road   is   under   construction.   Both   these
 requirements would be completed within three months. That as regards the approved building plans for the new
 construction,   it   is   submitted   that   the     Special   Expert
 Committee was apprised that the same were lying in the

 Architect Sh. Anshita Aggarwal who was out of station
 in connection with   the admission of his son. The said
 architect   is   expected   to   be   back   on   1.8.2018.   The

 respondent   is   ready   and   willing   to   produce   the   same

 within three days thereafter. The   Expert   Committee   has   wrongly   failed   to   take   into
 consideration   the   entire   construction   work   which   is

 going on, majority whereof is nearing completion. 
 That as regards the sharing of workshops, labs, library

 and   other   infrastructural   facilities,   the   submissions
 already made are reasserted to avoid repetition. That it is most respectfully submitted that it has been the
 endeavour  of the society to run the engineering college in

 most   professional   manner   and   to   provide   all   basic
 educational and infrastructural facilities to the students.
 The respondent Polytechnic College has been in the past
 few   years   facing   shortage   of   students   and   as   such
 reduction   in   the   income.   However,   the   respondent
 polytechnic   college   is   duty   bound   to   remove   all   the
 shortcomings   still   persisting   in   the   respondent   college
 within a period of one year. ­429­

 552 After   going   through   the   SIT   and   VT   reports   and

 reply   filed   by   the   Institution   aforementioned,   we   are   of   the

 opinion that the Institution has requisite infrastructural facilities

 . to run the courses and accordingly,  the Institution is permitted

 to run the courses that are currently being run by it. 553 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time   has

 already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions, to rectify the same upto  the next academic session. Fb)3: SIRDA Institute of Polytechnic, Kanaid, 

 Sundernagar, Mandi. 554 The   SIT   in   its   progress   report   No.8   (pages   47­56)

 after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this Institute

 has found that  the society had obtained approval  to start only

 Women's Engineering Institute and its subsequent conversion to

 co­ed.   institute     on   the   basis   of   misrepresentation   of   facts

 leading to land owned by it. The society was not eligible to start

 the engineering institute as it did not have adequate  land in its

 possession as per norms prescribed by AICTE. 555 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. a criminal case may please be ordered to be registered
 either   by   CBI   or   State   Vigilance   &   Anit­   Corruption
 Bureau,   Himachal   Pradesh   against   Sh.     Nikk     Ram ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:04 :::HCHP ­430­

 Chaudhary   and   others   for   obtaining
 recognition/affiliation   from   AICTE/HPU   on   the   basis   of
 false information/affidavits regarding the land , built up
 area and other infrastructural and instructional facilities

 . available with the Society. 2.   Since   the   institution   lacks   in   infrastructure   and   the
 instructional area and recognition & affiliation had been

 obtained on the basis of misrepresentation & submission
 of false information, directions may please be issued to
 AICTE/DTE   and   HPTSB   not   to   allow   any   further

 admissions and to cancel the recognition & affiliation of
 SIRDA Polytechnic after the present batches pass out. 3.The Principal Secretary (Revenue), Govt. of H.P. may be

 directed to withdraw the permission granted u/s 118(2) of   the   H.P.   Land   and   Tenancy   Reforms   Act,   1972   on
 24.6.2011 for 37­05­13 bighas of land as the society had
 violated terms and conditions of the said permission by

 not using the land for the purpose for which permission
 had been accorded, within the stipulated period. Further,

 proceedings to recover the land as per provisions of the
 said   Act   and   Rules   framed   thereunder   should   be

 initiated by the Department of Revenue,Govt. of H.P.  

 556 The Institution was got inspected by the VT under

 the  orders   of   this  Court    and   in  its   report  (pages   5625­5651),

 following deficiencies were noticed: ­431­ 4. Occupation Certificate was not accepted. 5. The   SIRDA   Institute   of   Engg.   &   Tech.,   SIRDA
 Polytechnic and SIRDA D­Pharmacy are running in
 the same campus and same building without any

 . physical   partitions   under   the   name   of   SIRDA

 Group   of   Institutions.   Separate   zones   of   building
 are   used   for   separate   institutes   but   all   are

 interconnected. 6. Only 11 classrooms are available for Polytechnic
 instead of 17 required as per norms 7. Only 01 tutorial room is available for Polytechnic
 instead of 5 required as per norms. 8. Pnly 09 labs are available for Polytechnic instead

 of 36 required as per norms. 9. No workshop, library, language  lab, Board room,
 Exam   Control   office,  Seminar   lab,  Boys   Common
 room,   Girls   common   room   are   available   in   the

 Institute.   (These   are   shared   with   the   SIRDA
 Institute of Engg. & Technology). 10. Only   2­   D­pharm   Labs   are   available   instead   of
 required 6 as per norms. 11. No seminar hall is available for D­pharm. 12. Areas   of   4­labs   and   5­class   rooms   (available)   is

 less than the required as per norms. 13. Approved building plans for the new construction
 were not presented. 14. Workshops,   labs,   library   and   various   other
 infrastructural   facilities   are   shared   with   SIRDA
 Institute of Engg. & Technology. 15. It is also worthy mentioning here that lot of new
 construction is going on. ­432­

 557 The Institution filed its reply (pages 6173­6194)

 wherein it controverted the report submitted by the SIT and

 VT point­wise, which reads as follow:­

 . 1. INSTRUCTIONAL
 That   the   infrastructural   deficiencies/defects   as   stated

 are wrong and denied. It is humbly submitted that the
 Special Investigation Team report wrongly states that the
 society   has   misrepresented     and   concealed   material
 facts from the AICTE about the exact position of the land

 while   obtaining   initial   approval   and   at   the   time   of
 conversion to Co­Educational Institute.   In this regard it

 is submitted that the Society had specifically mentioned

 in   its   initial   application   for   approval,   the   distance
 between   the   two   pieces   of   land   to   be   1.00   km.     Gthe
 distance given in fact was revenue distance which was

 duly   considered   by   the   Expert   Visiting   Committee,
 Scrutiny   Committee,   Regional   Recommendation
 Committee,   Standing   Hearing   Committee   and   AICTE,

 whereafter the society was accorded sanction to run the

 respondent   College   vide   communication   dated
 30.06.2009   only   after   it   duly   fulfilled   the   requisite

 conditions with regard to the availability of land to run
 the   Engineering   College.   Likewise   at   the   time   of
 conversion the Society had specifically mentioned in its
 communications for approval dated 21.1.2010, Annexure
 RA, the distance between the two pieces of land to be 10
 kms.     However   the   permission   for   conversion   was
 initially declined on which CWP No. 6351 of 2011 had to
 be filed before the Hon'ble High Court of H.P. The said
 CWP   was   disposed   of   vide   orders   dated   6.9.2012, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:05 :::HCHP ­433­

 Annexure   RB   as   the   AICTE   accorded   approval   vide
 communication   dated   19.6.2012.       The   time   to   time
 inspections by the EVCs constituted by the AICTE go on
 to show that there has not been any misrepresentation

 . or concealment of facts from the AICTE with regard to the

 location of land. That the SIT report further wrongly states that the area

 available with the replying respondent Institute is only
 6419.60 Sq. Meters as against the mentioned 12,238 Sq.
 Meters.   It is submitted that only the carpet area of the

 class   rooms, labs  and   workshops  has   been  taken  into
 consideration.  The common areas, amenity areas, hostel
 area   and   the   area   under   construction   has   not   been

 considered   at   all.     Moreover   the   plinth   area   of   the

 construction raised ought to have been considered which
 has   not   been   done,   reducing   the   area   calculated,
 multipurpose hall, Girls Common Room, Digital Library,

 Computer Centre in the institute.   All such facilities are
 available.    It   is  further  wrong    and  specifically  denied

 that   the   Principal's   Office,   Conference   Room,   Main
 Officer, Library Rooms, and Workshops were found to be

 smaller in size.  The team has wrongly calculated carpet
 area instead of plinth area resulting in the reduction of

 size.  As regards the labs of D Pharmacy being inside the
 College it is submitted that an affidavit in terms of the
 Rule   applicable   at   the   relevant   time   for   integrated
 campus   of   Engineering,   and   Polytechnic   Courses,
 Annexure RD was submitted by the respondent College
 pursuant   to   resolution   Annexure   RG   shows   that   the
 integrated   campus   is   required   and   that   there   is   no
 deficiency in the fulfillment of requisite formalities by the
 respondent College. This coupled with the fact that the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:05 :::HCHP ­434­

 earlier inspections have also not objected in this regard,
 there is no illegality in the sharing of facilities by the two
 Institutions. It is wrong and specifically denied that as
 against   the   requisite   39   Class   Rooms   and   9   Tutorial

 . Rooms the Institute  was having only 10 class rooms and

 7 tutorial rooms. In this regard it is submitted that out of
 the approval Six Courses the respondent College in only

 running the Courses of Civil Engineering and Computer
 Science   Engineering.     The   respondent   College   is   not
 running   the   Courses   of   Information   &   Technology   and

 Electronic & Communication Engineering, since the year
 2016 and  2014  respectively.   As per the AICTE  norms
 the   respondent   College   requires   15   class   rooms   and   2

 tutorial rooms for 7 courses. The respondent College is

 having 11 class rooms and 5 tutorial rooms which are
 sufficient   for  the   5   courses   presently  being   run   by   the
 respondent   College.   Moreover   7   Class   rooms   and   3

 tutorial rooms are presently under completion and would
 be   ready   in   all   respects   within   45   days   and   further

 seven class  rooms and  three  tutorial  rooms  and  under
 construction and would be ready in all respects within a

 period of  one year. All these facts were brought  to the
 notice of the Inspection  Team, who had also taken note

 and inspected the same but strangely enough the same
 do not form part of the report. II. INSTRUCTIONAL
 That the Instructional deficiencies/defects as stated are
 wrong   and   denied.   As   regards   the   number   of   faculty
 members    it  is  submitted  that  as  of  date  there  are  33
 faculty   members   working   with   the   respondent   College.
 As   per   the   latest   AICTE   norms   the   teachers­students
 ratio has been reduced to 1:25.  The respondent is only ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:05 :::HCHP ­435­

 having   135   students   as   of   date,   against   which   the
 number of faculty members is sufficient. It is wrong  and
 specifically denied that proper faculty cadre ratio is not
 maintained. It is wrong and specifically denied that the

 . labs   are   not   well   equipped   or   that   there   are   only   100

 PCs. It is submitted   that as of now there are 240 PCs
 functioning in the respondent College which is sufficient

 for   the   students   admitted.   It   is   further   wrong   and
 specifically denied that the Library is without adequate
 title   and   numbers   of   volumes   or   that   there   are   no

 multimedia PCs  in the  Library. It  is further wrong and
 specifically denied that the reading room capacity is only 70. It is submitted that the SIT team  failed to take  into

 consideration   all   the   three   reading   rooms,   capacity

 whereof is more than 250 and has only considered one
 reading   room   there   too   the   team   has   wrongly   reduced
 the seating capacity by about 30. As regards the number

 of workshops and instructors it is submitted that against
 the permitted intake capacity of 1740 student there are

 only   135   students   undergoing   their   studies   in   the
 respondent College. Against the running five courses of

 Engineering and D. Pharmacy, the respondent college is
 proper   workshop   and   six   instructors   have     been   duly

 appointed as required under the norms. The respondent
 College is making payment of salary on the basis of  the
 salary settled with the faculty and staff recruited.   The
 staff and faculty are being paid the basic pay as fixed
 by the Sixth Pay Commission.  This is because of the law
 intake of students resulting in the reduced income and
 the   expenditure   involved   in   maintaining   the   existing
 infrastructure and enhancing the infrastructure. ­436­

 III.  CONCLUSION & PRAYER
 That   the   conclusion   drawn   in  the   report   are   false   and
 incorrect.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   the
 Society obtained the approval to stated the  Institute  or

 . subsequent   conversion   by   misrepresenting   facts.     It   is

 wrong and specifically denied that the Society was not
 eligible   to   state   the   Engineering   College   or   was   not

 having   adequate   land   as   per   the   norms   of   the   AICTE.
 Submissions   already   made   are   reasserted   to   avoid
 repetition.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   a

 criminal   case   is   required   to   be   registered   against   the
 Society or its members or that the Society or its members
 have   obtained   recognition/affiliation   from   the

 AICTE/HPTU/HPU by giving false information/affidavits

 regarding   land,   built­up   area,   infrastructural   and
 instructional   facilities.     It   is   wrong   and   specifically
 denied that the recognition/affiliation of the respondent

 college is liable to be withdrawn.  It is further wrong and
 specifically denied  that  the  permission  accorded  to  the

 respondent College under Section 118 of the HP Tenancy
 and Land Reforms Act 1972 is liable to be withdrawn. The   report   of   the   SIT   being   based   upon   false   and
 incorrect facts is liable to be rejected and the petition qua

 the respondent College ordered to be dismissed.
 SPECIAL EXPERT COMMITTEE (AICTE) REPORT
 That   the   reply   to   the   report   submitted   by   the   Special
 Expert Committee (AICTE) is as under:­
 That the respondent Institute was informed of inspection
 of its Engineering College by the  AICTE, through mail  on
 10.7.2018   at   4:18   pm   whereafter   the   inspection   was
 done   on   14.7.2017.   The   respondent   Institute   was   not
 apprised of the information to be made available to the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:05 :::HCHP ­437­

 inspecting team.  The respondent Institute offered full co­
 operation to the inspecting team, though the team was
 most un co­operative.   It is submitted that  the certified
 copy of Jamabandi of the land of the Institute, Musabi

 . and   original   Land   Conversion   Certificate   were   not

 available   at   the   relevant   time   with   the   respondent
 Institute   and   as   such   photocopies   of   the   same   were

 made available.  I had offered to self­attest the same to
 which   the   team   refused.   Likewise   original   approved
 building   plans   and   occupation   certificate   were   not

 available   and   photocopies   were   offered   which   the
 inspecting team refused to accept.   I had offered to self
 the same but the team refused.   It is humbly submitted

 that the originals of these documents had been used up

 during the obtaining of sanctions, repeated inspections,
 filing of Court cases and as such it was not possible to
 produce the same.   However, the photocopies produced

 and sought to be produced were office copies retained by
 the respondent Institute and as such the same would not

 have   in   any   manner   affected   either   the   inspection   or
 submission  of  the  present  report  by the  Special  Expert

 Committee. That   as   regards   the   Engineering,   and   Polytechnic

 Courses   being   run   in   the   same   campus   and   building
 without partition and the same being interconnected, as
 already stated supra it is submitted that an affidavit in
 terms   of   the   Rule   application   at   the   relevant   time   for
 integrated   campus   of   Engineering,   and   Polytechnic
 Courses, Annexure RC was submitted by the respondent
 College pursuant to resolution Annexure RD.   Reminder
 in   this   regard   Annexure   RE   was   submitted   was   on
 25.6.2012.     The   report   of   the     AICTE   generated   on ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:05 :::HCHP ­438­

 14.2.2012,   Annexure   RF   shows   that   the   integrated
 campus is required and that there is no deficiency in the
 fulfillment   of   requisite   formalities   by   the   respondent
 College.   This   coupled   with   the   fact   that   the   earlier

 . inspections have also not objected in this regard, there is

 no illegality in the running of the two Institutions in the
 same campus and building. That it is wrong and  specifically denied that as against
 the  requisite  17  Class  Rooms  the  Institute  was  having
 only 11 Class Rooms. In this regard it is submitted that

 out of the approved 7 Courses, the respondent College in
 only   running   the   Courses   of   Civil   Engineering,
 Mechanical   Engineering,   Electrical   Engineering   and

 Computer   Science   Engineering   and   D.   Pharmacy.   The

 respondent   College   is   not   running   the   Courses   of
 Automobile Engineering and Electronic& Communication
 Engineering since the year 2016 and 2014 respectively. As per the AICTE norms the respondent College requires
 15 class rooms and 2 tutorial rooms for 7 courses. The

 respondent   College   is   having   11   class   rooms   and   1
 tutorial   room   which   are   sufficient   for   the   5   courses

 presently being run by the respondent College. Moreover
 7 Class rooms and 3 tutorial rooms are presently under

 completion and would be ready in all respects within 45
 days  and   further seven  class  rooms   and  three   tutorial
 rooms and under construction and would be ready in all
 respects   within   a   period   of     one   year.   All   these   facts
 were brought  to the notice of the Inspection  Team, who
 had   also   taken   note   and   inspected   the   same   but
 strangely enough the same do not form part of the report.
 That   as   regard   the   existing   one   Tutorial     against   the
 required five it is submitted that the report is false and ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­439­

 incorrect. THE respondent College is having five tutorials
 which     have   not   been   taken   into   consideration   by   the
 Expert   Committee   and   the   report   in   this   regard   is
 factually not correct. . That   as   regards   the   number   of   Laboratories     being   9

 against the required 36 it is submitted that against the
 permitted intake  capacity of 1740 student there are only

 35 students undergoing their studies in the respondent
 college. Against the running 5 courses of Engineering, D.
 Pharmacy     the   respondent   college   is   having   9

 Laboratories in all and 27 are shared with Engineering
 College in the integrated complex. That   is   wrong   and   specifically   denied   that   there   is   no

 workshop, Library, Language  Lab, Board  Room, Exam­

 Control Office, Seminar Hall, Boys Common Room, Girls
 Common   Room   in   the   College.   All   these   facilities   are
 available in the campus. That is wrong and specifically denied that there are only
 two  D.  Pharmacy  Labs  available   against  the     required

 six.   It   is   submitted   the   keeping   in   view   the   reduced
 strength  of  the students, two labs  are  being used and

 remaining   are     being   shared   with   the   Engineering
 College is in the same campus. As regards the seminar

 halls, the same is ready and the respondent   College is
 in   the   process   of   making   partition   and   arranging
 furniture   for   the   same,   which   process   would   be
 completed in a period of three months.  
 That it is wrong and specifically denied that the area of
 4   labs,   5   class   rooms   is   deficient.   It   is   submitted   that
 only the carpet area of the rooms has   been taken into
 consideration. The  plinth are  of the construction raised ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­440­

 ought   to   have     been   considered   which   has   not     been
 done, reducing the area calculated, marginally.
 That as regards the approved building plans for the new
 construction,   it   is   submitted   that   the     Special   Expert

 . Committee was apprised that the same were lying in the

 Architect Sh. Anshita Aggarwal who was out of station
 in connection with   the admission of his son. The said

 architect   is   expected   to   be   back   on   1.8.2018.   The
 respondent   is   ready   and   willing   to   produce   the   same
 within three days thereafter. That as regards the sharing of workshops, labs, library
 and   other   infrastructural   facilities,   the   submissions
 already made are reasserted to avoid repetition. The   Expert   Committee   has   wrongly   failed   to   take   into

 consideration   the   entire   construction   work   which   is
 going on, majority whereof is nearing completion. 
 That it is most respectfully submitted that it has been the

 endeavour  of the society to run the polytechnic college in
 most   professional   manner   and   to   provide   all   basic

 educational and infrastructural facilities to the students.
 The respondent Polytechnic College has been in the past

 few   years   facing   shortage   of   students   and   as   such
 reduction   in   the   income.   However,   the   respondent

 polytechnic   college   is   duty   bound   to   remove   all   the
 shortcomings   still   persisting   in   the   respondent   college
 within a period of one year. ­441­

 558 The   Institution   has   also   filed   an   application

 (CMP No. 8048/2018) (pages 6623­6667) under Section 151 CPC   for   placing   on   record   the   additional   documents   i.e.

 . approval   for   technical     campus   and   conversion   to   Co­

 education   of   SIRDA,   Institute   of   Engineering   Technology

 dated 19.6.2012, Annexure A, approval for technical campus

 and   conversion   to   Co­education   of   SIRDA   Polytechnic,

 Annexure B, Inspection report dated 25.9.2017, Annexure C,

 approval for the academic year 2017­18 of SIRDA Institute of

 Engineering   Technology   dated   30.10.2017   Annexure   D,

 approval for the academic year 2018­19 of SIRDA Institute of

 Engineering Technology dated 10.4.2018, Annexure E, proof

 of   payment   of   fees   by     SIRDA     Institute   of   Engineering

 Technology dated 30.1.2012 Annexure F which included fees

 for Technical Campus Annexure H.  

 559 After going through the SIT and VT reports and

 reply  filed  by  the   Institution  aforementioned,   we   are  of  the

 opinion   that   the   Institution   has   requisite   infrastructural

 facilities to run the courses and accordingly,  the Institution

 is permitted to run the courses that are currently being run

 by it. ­442­

 560 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 . session. F b)5: Chamba Millenium B.Ed. College, Labkana, P.O. 
 Saru,Tehsil and District Chamba, H.P.

 561 The SIT in its progress report No.11 (pages 77­84)

 after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this Institute

 has arrived at the following conclusions: 562 On   the   basis   of   the   aforesaid   conclusions,   it   has

 been prayed that:­ 1. the deficiencies noticed during the course of inspection
 may   be   ordered   to   be   forwarded   to   the   Chairperson, ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­443­

 NCTE, Govt. of India, New Delhi, for taking further action
 in the matter. 2. directions may kindly be issued to NCTE and HPU not
 to   allow   further   admissions   till   the   deficiencies   are

 . removed by the Chamba Millennium B.Ed. College. 3. Secretary (Revenue) Govt. of H.P. may be directed to
 cause an enquiry as to how the land was registered by

 the   Sub­Registrar,   Chamba,   in   favour   of   the
 society/institute without permission u/s 118(2) of HPTLR
 Act, 1972. 4.Directions   may   be   issued   to   NCTE   for   taking
 appropriate   action   against   the   experts   who   conducted
 inspection on 1.11.2010 and concealed material facts in

 the inspection report. 563 The  VT   of  the  AICTE  under  orders  of  this  Court

 inspected the Institute  on 7.8.2018 to which Sh. Kulwinder K.

 Mahajan, Managing Director of Millenium B.Ed. College, filed

 an   affidavit   (pages6853­6854),   wherein   it   is   stated   that   the

 deficiencies as pointed out by the SIT have been removed.  As

 against   requirement   of   2000   sq.   mts.   area,   the   Institute   has

 built up area, which was increased  by including the portion of

 the basement which was previously used by the ITI because  of

 the damage in the ITI college run by the society which has been

 incorporated     and   total   built   up   area   has   been   increased   to

 1736   sq.   mts.  The   institute   has  already  started  construction

 over   the   property,   which   is   going   to   add   more   than   320   sq. ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­444­

 mts. in the total built up area, but the same is likely to take

 some time for the completion of the construction. The Institute

 has   increased     the   size   of   class   rooms,   labs,   boys   common

 . room,   girls   common   room   by   renovating     the   structure   from

 inside. The furniture and equipments have been purchased as

 per the specification of the norms and the bills have already

 been supplied to the Inspection Committee.   The Institute has

 also   issued   various   advertisements   for   appointment   of

 adequate   staff   and   all   the   deficiencies   have   been   removed,

 however improvement of faculty is in progress. Fb)6 Priyadarshini College of Education, Village 
 Kundu,Chowari, Distt. Chamba, H.P.

 564 The SIT in its progress report No.11 (pages 71­ 86) after scrutiny of records and physical inspection of this

 Institute has noticed few deficiencies in infrastructural and

 instructional   facilities   and   it   has   been   prayed   that     the

 deficiencies noticed during the course of inspection may be

 ordered to be forwarded to NCTE for taking further necessary

 action to get the deficiencies removed. 565 Therefore, in this background, the Institution is

 permitted to run its courses subject of course to removal of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­445­

 all   the   objections   raised   by   the   SIT   and   VT   of   the   AICTE

 before start of the next academic session. 566 As   regards   the   instructional   deficiencies,   time

 . has   already   been   granted   to   the   Institution,   like   the   other

 Institutions,   to   rectify   the   same   upto   the   next   academic

 session. 567 This brings us to the end of progress reports No.

 1   to   11,   however   during   the   course   of   hearings,   further

 reports   have   been   submitted   by   the   SIT,   which   are   now

 required   to   be   placed   before   the   appropriate   bench   after

 seeking approval of Hon'ble the Chief Justice. 568 While   hearing   this   case   vide   order   dated

 6.4.2018, we had appointed Ms. Jyotsna Rewal Dua, learned

 Senior Advocate as amicus curiae.  The record reveals that as

 many as 34 hearings were conducted in this case after she

 was   appointed   as  amicus   curiae  and   the   case   was

 continuously  listed before the Court post lunch for  a period

 of six weeks. 569 We   are   indebted   to   the   valuable   assistance

 rendered by Ms. Dua, who without fail not only appeared but

 rendered   full   and   complete   assistance.   The   assistance

 rendered by Ms. Dua has been acknowledged   even by the ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:06 :::HCHP ­446­

 parties   to   this   petition   and   in   fact   at   the   fag   end   of   the

 hearing,   some   of   the   counsels   including   learned   senior

 counsels representing these Institutions had made a request

 . that   in   view   of   the   painstaking   efforts   as   also   devotion   of

 time, some remuneration  ought to be paid  to Ms. Dua. 570 We are in complete agreement with the proposal

 so mooted  and are also fully aware that we may not be in a

 position   to   fully   compensate   Ms.   Dua,   but   as   a   token   of

 appreciation of her hard work, labour and devotion of time in

 this case, we direct each of the institute to remit a sum of

 Rs.5000/­   per   institute,   J.B.T.,   D.El.Ed   and   B.Ed.   to   Ms.

 Dua. 571 Since   majority   of   the   institutes   are     yet   to

 complete   instructional   facilities   and   some   of   them   do   not

 possess requisite infrastructure facilities, therefore, we direct

 the expert committees to conduct fresh inspection after   the

 end of next academic session and only those institutes which

 fulfill   the   instructional   as   well   as   infrastructural   facilities

 would be permitted to  run  the courses. This team shall be

 constituted especially for State of Himachal Pradesh and in

 addition   to   the   actual   expenses   shall   be   paid   a   sum   of ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:07 :::HCHP ­447­

 Rs.20,000/­as   remuneration   to   each   of   the   members   for

 every inspection they conduct. . (Tarlok Singh Chauhan)

               Judge

      (Chander Bhusan Barowalia)
               Judge
 12th  December, 2018
           (pankaj)

 r to ::: Downloaded on - 18/12/2018 22:56:07 :::HCHP