1. Akhil Krishan Maggu (Petitioner No. 1) son of Sanjeev Maggu-

Petitioner No. 2 is a practising lawyer in the field of taxation. The

Petitioners through instant petition under article 226 of Constitution of India

are seeking quashing of summons dated 28.8.2019 (Annexure P-11) issued

by Senior Intelligence Officer (for short 'SIO'), Directorate General of GST

Intelligence (for short 'DGGI'). 2. The pleaded case of the Petitioners is that Petitioner No. 1 as an

Advocate, on behalf of four exporters who had retracted their statements

made at the first instance filed Writ Petitions before Delhi High Court

against DGGI. As per Respondent these four exporters had availed huge

 1 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:55 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #2#

amount of refund of IGST and they are dummy owners. The DGGI-

Respondent on 15.8.2019 searched Gurugram residence of Ramesh

Wadhera-alleged owner of dummy export firms who happens to be

neighbour of Petitioners. On the request of Ramesh Wadhera, Petitioners

came to his residence and some commotion took place between Petitioners

and official of DGGI. At the behest of DGGI, Police registered FIR dated

15.8.2019 under Section 186 , 353 IPC at DLF Police Station, Gurugram

against both the Petitioners and arrested them on the same day. Both were

released on bail on 22.8.2019 after a week incarceration. The DGGI on 27.8.2019 again recorded statements of said

dummy exporters, who allegedly disclosed name of Petitioners apart from

earlier names of Ramesh Wadhera and Mukesh Kumar as also being

involved. The Respondent-DGGI on 28.8.2019 searched Gurugram

residence of Petitioners who at that point of time were not at home. The

Respondents after completing search took away younger brother of

Petitioner No. 1 to their office and arrested him on 29.8.2019. The DGGI on

2.9.2019 lodged another FIR against Petitioner No. 2 under Section 186 , 34 & 353 IPC at DLF Police Station, Gurugram alleging that he called police at

the time of search of his residence on 28.8.2019 which amounts to

obstruction in performance of official duty. The DGGI-Respondent vide

summons dated 28.8.2019 (Annexure P-11) directed Petitioners to appear

before SIO to tender their statement in connection with export made by

dummy export firms. Apprehending coercive action, the Petitioners

approached this Court by way of present writ petition. 3. This court while issuing notice of motion vide order 10.9.2019

directed Petitioners to appear before Senior Intelligence Officer, DGGI. Both the Petitioners appeared before Respondent on 11 & 12th September'

2019. The DGGI-Respondent on 12.9.2019 handed over Petitioner No. 2 to

Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, New Delhi who arrested him on

12.9.2019. On 13.9.2019, the Petitioner No. 2 was sent to judicial custody

and till date he is stated to be in judicial custody. The Petitioner No. 1 again

appeared before DGGI-Respondent on 28.9.2019 & 1.10.2019 but statement

could not be recorded. The Petitioner again appeared before Respondent on

7.10.2019 and tendered his statement. The Petitioner appeared before

Respondent on 11.10.2019 & 16.10.2019 but his further statement was not

recorded. 4. Counsel for the Petitioners contends that it is case of vendetta

and there is no evidence against Petitioners to connect them with fraud if

any committed by alleged four dummy exporters or alleged owner Ramesh

Wadhera. The Respondents did not record statement of Petitioners while

they were in judicial custody for a week in the FIR lodged by them and at

present Petitioner No. 2 is again in judicial custody since 13.9.2019,

however till date no statement has been recorded. It shows that intention of

Respondent is just to arrest Petitioners and tarnish their reputation. The

Respondents just due to filing of writ petitions before Delhi High Court on

behalf of four exporters and commotion at the residence of Ramesh

Wadhera want to implicate Petitioner even though they have already

remained in custody for altercation which took place at the Gurugram

residence of Ramesh Wadhera. The Respondents during the course of

investigation could not gather even a single piece of evidence against

Petitioners still they are running after their blood. The Respondents want

that Petitioner No. 1 should accept that he is involved in refund scam

 3 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #4#

though even his father was not found involved and Respondents/DGGI got

arrested him from DRI. Intention of Respondent is just to arrest Petitioner

which is evident from the fact that Respondent/DGGI remained silent when

Petitioner No. 2 was in custody in FIR case and thereafter in DRI matter. 5. Counsel for the Respondent contended that Petitioner No. 1 is

neither cooperating nor answering questions asked by SIO. He is involved

in the fraud and deserves no sympathy of this court. The exporters are not

real owners of exporting firm and it is Petitioners who in connivance with

Ramesh Wadhera and one Mukesh Kumar had created bogus/dummy firms

and availed refund of IGST. The Petitioner No. 1 who earlier was customs

clearing agent is mis-using his professional position and needs to be

interrogated without cover of protection of this court. 6. Counsel for the Respondents on 24.10.2019 submitted record

of investigation in sealed cover. We have perused a number of documents

submitted by counsel in sealed cover but we do not find in record any

statement of Petitioners, Dhruv Maggu-brother of Petitioner No. 1, Ramesh

Wadhera and Mukesh Kumar to ascertain disclosure made by all of them.

Except Petitioner No. 1, all other named persons have been arrested so their

statements are necessary to ascertain prime facie role of Petitioners.

Statements of dummy exporters who had retracted their earlier statements,

were again recorded on 27.8.2019 i.e. after incurrence of incident at

residence of Ramesh Wadhera on 15.8.2019 and arrest of both Petitioners

by Gurugram Police have been produced, however, the earlier Statements

recorded on 13.5.2019 of all the exporters are not produced probably

because of the fact that these statements do not indict/implicate present

Petitioners. Documents relating to Petitioner No. 2 working as Customs

 4 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #5#

House Agent and Petitioner No. 1 as 'H' card holder are produced, which

are not relevant because as per Respondent itself Petitioner No. 1 joined

profession in 2017 and present controversy relates to GST which came into

force w.e.f. 1.7.2017. 7. Before adverting to present controversy, it would be profitable

to look at judicial pronouncements relating to the issue involved. The

provisions of CGST Act, 2017 qua arrest and prosecution are para materia

with provisions of Finance Act, 1994 (Service Tax). While dealing with

power of arrest prior to determination of tax liability, Delhi High Court in

the case of Make My Trip Vs. Union of India 2016 (44) STR 481 (Del.)

has thoroughly examined scheme of the Act and concluded in Para 116 as

below: (iii) For a Central Excise officer or an officer of the DGCEI duly
 empowered and authorised in that behalf to be satisfied that a person
 has committed an offence under Section 89(1)(d) of the FA, it would
 require an enquiry to be conducted by giving an opportunity to the
 person sought to be arrested to explain the materials and
 circumstances gathered against such person, which according to the
 officer points to the commission of an offence. Specific to Section
 89(1)(d) of the FA, it has to be determined with some degree of
 certainty that a person has collected service tax but has failed to pay the
 amount so collected to the Central Government beyond the period of
 six months from the date on which such payment is due and further that
 the amount exceeds Rs. 50 lakhs (now enhanced to Rs. 1 crore). (iv) A possible exception could be where a person is shown to be a
 habitual evader of service tax. Such person would have to be one who
 has not filed a service tax return for a continuous length of time, who
 has a history of repeated defaults for which there have been fines,
 penalties imposed and prosecutions launched, etc. That history can be
 gleaned only from past records of the ST Department. In such
 instances, it might be possible to justify resorting to the coercive
 provisions straightaway, but then the notes on file must offer a
 convincing justification for resorting to that extreme measure. (v) The decision to arrest a person must not be taken on whimsical
 grounds; it must be based on 'credible material'. The constitutional
 safeguards laid out in D.K. Basu's case (supra) in the context of the
 powers of police officers under the Cr PC and of officers of Central
 Excise, Customs and enforcement directorates, are applicable to the
 exercise of powers under the FA in equal measure. An officer whether
 of the Central Excise department or another agency like the DGCEI,
 authorised to exercise powers under the CE Act and/or the FA will
 have to be conscious of the constitutional limitations on the exercise
 of such power. (vi) In the case of MMT, without even an SCN being issued and
 without there being any determination of the amount of service tax
 arrears, the resort to the extreme coercive measure of arrest
 followed by the detention of Mr. Pallai was impermissible in law. (vii) In terms of C.B.E. & C.'s own procedures, for the launch of

 6 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #7#

 prosecution there has to be a determination that a person is a habitual
 offender. There is no such determination in any of these cases. There
 cannot be a habitual offender if there is no discussion by the DGCEI
 with the ST Department regarding the history of such assessee.
 Assuming that, for whatever reasons, if the DGCEI does not talk to ST
 Department, certainly it needs to access the service tax record of such
 assessee. Without even requisitioning that record, it could not have
 been possible for the DGCEI to arrive at a reasonable conclusion
 whether there was a deliberate attempt of evading payment of service
 tax. In the case of MMT, the decision to go in for the extreme step of
 arrest without issuing an SCN under Section 73 or 73A(3) of the FA,
 appears to be totally unwarranted. (viii) For the exercise of powers of search under Section 82 of the FA, (i) an opinion has to be formed by the Joint Commissioner or
 Additional Commissioner or other officers notified by the Board that
 "any documents or books or things" which are useful for or relevant for
 any proceedings under this Chapter are secreted in any place, and (ii)
 the note preceding the search of a premises has to specify the above
 requirement of the law. The search of the premises of the two
 petitioners is in clear violation of the mandate of Section 82 of the FA.
 It is unconstitutional and legally unsustainable. (ix) The Court is unable to accept that payment by the two
 petitioners of alleged service tax arrears was voluntary. Consequently,
 the amount that was paid by the petitioners as a result of the search of
 their premises by the DGCEI, without an adjudication much less an
 SCN, is required to be returned to them forthwith. (x) It was imperative for the DGCEI to first check whether the
 entity whose employees are sought to be arrested has regularly been
 filing service tax returns or is a habitual offender in that regard. It is
 only after checking the entire records and seeking clarification where
 necessary, that the investigating agency can possibly come to a
 conclusion that Section 89(1)(d) is attracted. None of the above
 safeguards were observed in the present case. The DGCEI acted with
 undue haste and in a reckless manner. (xi) Liberty is granted to the officials of MMT and IBIBO to institute
 appropriate proceedings in accordance with law against the officers of
 the DGCEI in which the supplementary affidavits filed in these
 proceedings and the replies thereto can be relied on. This holds good
 for the officials of the DGCEI as well when called upon to defend those

 7 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #8#

 proceedings in accordance with law. (xii) The Court cannot decline to exercise its jurisdiction and clarify
 the legal position as regards the interpretation of the scope and ambit of
 the powers under Sections 89 , 90 and 91 of the FA. This is clearly
 within the powers of this Court. That is why this Court has decided to
 proceed with these petitions notwithstanding that the criminal petitions
 may be pending in the criminal jurisdiction of this Court. (xiii) The Court is satisfied that in the present case the action of the
 DGCEI in proceeding to arrest Mr. Pallai, Vice-President of MMT, was
 contrary to law and that Mr. Pallai's Constitutional and Fundamental
 Rights under Article 21 of the Constitution have been violated. The
 Court is conscious that Mr. Pallai has instituted separate proceedings
 for quashing of the criminal case and, therefore, this Court does not
 propose to deal with that aspect of the matter. Delhi High Court in Para 80-82 has carved out exceptions

where power of arrest may be resorted. Para 80-82 are extracted below: 8 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #9#

 empowered to do so, however with the previous approval of the
 Commissioner of Central Excise. However, at the same time, law
 enforcers cannot be permitted to do something that is not
 permitted within the four corners of law." 81. In Technomaint Contractors Ltd. v. Union of India - 2014 (36)
 S.T.R. 488 (Guj.), the Gujarat High Court held that Section 73C of the
 FA cannot be activated for making a recovery even before adjudication. 82. In the context of the provisions for arrest under the Central Excise
 Act, 1944 , the DGCEI has published a Manual in 2004 containing
 guidelines to the CE Officers on when and in what circumstances resort
 should be had to the coercive step of arrest. In Chapter X Para 7 of the
 said Manual, it is stated that arrest can be made prior to the issue of an
 SCN but only "where fraudulent intent is clear (prima facie there is
 evidence of mens rea) or where the evidence is enough to secure a
 conviction or where the person is likely to abscond, tamper with
 evidence or influence the witnesses if left at large. Arrest at the
 investigation stage should be resorted to only when it is unavoidable." (Emphasis supplied)

 Concededly, Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated

23.01.2019 has upheld aforesaid decision of Delhi High Court.

7.1 Relying upon decision of Delhi High Court, in the case of

Jayachandran Alloys (P) Ltd. Vs. Superintendent of GST & C. Ex.,

Salem 2019 (25) G.S.T.L. 321 (Mad.), Madras High Court has concluded,

in the relevant Paras as below: Ltd. , (supra), confirmed by the Supreme Court and also does not take into

 account the relevant statutory provisions of the Revenue enactment, that in

 my view are necessary to appreciate the lis in proper perspective. The

 decision is thus distinguishable on facts and in law. 43. As far as the decision rendered by the Rajasthan High Court is

 concerned, it is distinguishable on facts, as at Paragraph 20 thereof, the

 Learned Judge records that the petitioner therein did not controvert the

 claim that the claim of Input Tax Credit is made based on fake invoices.

 Thus, no defence was put forth by the petitioner to the allegation of Bill

 Trading in that case , which is not so in the case before me. This decision is

 also distinguishable on facts. 44. The Learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court, in

 Anticipatory Bail Application, in the case of Meghraj Moolchand Burad v.

 Directorate General of GST (Intelligence), Pune and Another ,

 Anticipatory Bail Application No. 2333 of 2018 [2019 (21) G.S.T.L. 125

 (Bom.)] has considered a similar case and has rejected the Anticipatory

 Bail taking into consideration the conduct of the applicant, gravity of

 offence and the serious allegations made. This order has travelled to the

 Supreme Court in Petition for Special Leave to Appeal Crl. Nos. 244/2019,

 dated 9-1-2019 [2019 (24) G.S.T.L. J82 (S.C.)] by the petitioner therein,

 wherein the Bench has issued notice and granted interim protection in the

 following terms :- ' Issued notice. In the meantime, the petitioner shall not be arrested,

 provided he appears before the Directorate General of GST

 Intelligence and in the event of his arrest, he shall be released on

 bail on furnishing security to the satisfaction of the competent

 authority. Learned Counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the

 12 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #13#

 petitioner shall regularly appear, as and when he is called. ' 45. Moreover, the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in Criminal

 Petition No. 979 of 2019 c/w Criminal Petition No. 980/2019, dated 19-2-

 2019 [2019 (23) G.S.T.L. 449 (Kar.)] while considering the grant of

 Anticipatory Bail, in circumstances very similar to the matter before me,

 has allowed the petition and granted bail in favour of the Assessee with

 conditions. 46. Issue (ii) is answered in favour of the petitioner. Issue (iii) is

 allowed, directing the respondents to conclude the process of adjudication

 within a period of twelve (12) weeks from today, after issuing show cause

 notice to the petitioner setting out the proposals for assessment, affording

 full opportunity to the petitioner to respond to the same and advance

 submissions in person, and pass a reasoned and speaking order, in

 accordance with law. " 7.4 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of C. PRADEEP

Petitioner(s) VERSUS THE COMMISSIONER OF GST AND

CENTRAL EXCISE SELAM & ANR. Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.)

No(s). 6834/2019 has passed interim order as below: 56. But, the aforesaid contention proceeds on the premise as though the

 only object of arresting a person pending investigation is just to facilitate

 further investigation. However, it is not so. The objects of pre-trial arrest

 and detention to custody pending trial, are manifold as indicated in Section 41 of the Code. They are: Therefore, it is not correct to say that the object of arrest is only

 to proceed with further investigation with the arrested person. 57. It is true that in some cases arising out of similar provisions for

 19 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #20#

 arrest under the Customs Act and other fiscal laws, the Supreme Court

 indicated that the object of arrest is to further the process of enquiry. But,

 it does not mean that the furthering of enquiry/investigation is the only

 object of arrest. 58. Therefore, all the technical objections raised by the petitioners, to

 the entitlement as well as the necessity for the respondents to arrest them

 are liable to be rejected. Once this is done, we will have to examine

 whether, in the facts and circumstances of these cases, the petitioners are

 entitled to protection against arrest. It must be remembered that the

 petitioners cannot be placed in a higher pedestal than those seeking

 anticipatory bail. On the other hand, the jurisdiction under Article 226 has to be sparingly used, as cautioned by the Supreme Court in Km.

 Hema Misra (cited supra). 59. We have very broadly indicated, without going deep, that the

 petitioners have allegedly involved in circular trading with a turnover on

 paper to the tune of about Rs. 1,289.00 crores and a benefit of ITC to the

 tune of Rs. 225.00 crores. The GST regime is at its nascent stage. The

 law is yet to reach its second anniversary. There were lot of technical

 glitches in the matter of furnishing of returns, making ITC claims etc.

 Any number of circulars had to be issued by the Government of India for

 removing these technical glitches. 60. If, even before the GST regime is put on tracks, someone can

 exploit the law, without the actual purchase or sale of goods or hiring or

 rendering of services, projecting a huge turnover that remained only on

 paper, giving rise to a claim for input tax credit to the tune of about Rs.

 225.00 crores, there is nothing wrong in the respondents thinking that

 persons involved should be arrested. Generally, in all other fiscal laws,

 the offences that we have traditionally known revolve around evasion of

 liability. In such cases, the Government is only deprived of what is due to

 them. But in fraudulent ITC claims, of the nature allegedly made by the

 20 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #21#

 petitioners, a huge liability is created for the Government. Therefore, the

 acts complained of against the petitioners constitute a threat to the very

 implementation of a law within a short duration of its inception. 61. In view of the above, despite our finding that the writ petitions are

 maintainable and despite our finding that the protection under Sections

 41 and 41A of Cr.P.C., may be available to persons said to have

 committed cognizable and non-bailable offences under this Act and

 despite our finding that there are incongruities within Section 69 and

 between Sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act, 2017, we do not wish to

 grant relief to the petitioners against arrest, in view of the special

 circumstances which we have indicated above. " 120. The Law Commission in July 2002 has severely criticized the

 police of our country for the arbitrary use of power of arrest which,

 the Commission said, is the result of the vast discretionary powers

 conferred upon them by this Code. The Commission expressed

 concern that there is no internal mechanism within the police

 department to prevent misuse of law in this manner and the stark

 reality that complaint lodged in this regard does not bring any result.

 The Commission intends to suggest amendments in the Criminal

 Procedure Code and has invited suggestions from various quarters.

 Reference is made in this Article to the 41st Report of the Law

 Commission wherein the Commission saw 'no justification' to require

 a person to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days and

 then apply for bail even when there are reasonable grounds for

 holding that the person accused of an offence is not likely to abscond

 or otherwise misuse his liberty. Discretionary power to order

 anticipatory bail is required to be exercised keeping in mind these

 sentiments and spirit of the judgments of this court in Sibbia's case

 (supra) and Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. and Others, 1994(2)

 23 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #24#

 R.C.R.(Criminal) 601 : (1994) 4 SCC 260. Relevant consideration for exercise of the power 121. No inflexible guidelines or straitjacket formula can be provided

 for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. We are clearly of the view that

 no attempt should be made to provide rigid and inflexible guidelines

 in this respect because all circumstances and situations of future

 cannot be clearly visualised for the grant or refusal of anticipatory

 bail. In consonance with the legislative intention the grant or refusal

 of anticipatory bail should necessarily depend on facts and

 circumstances of each case. As aptly observed in the Constitution

 Bench decision in Sibbia's case (supra) that the High Court or the

 Court of Sessions to exercise their jurisdiction under section 438 Criminal Procedure Code by a wise and careful use of their discretion

 which by their long training and experience they are ideally suited to

 do. In any event, this is the legislative mandate which we are bound to

 respect and honour. 122. The following factors and parameters can be taken into

 consideration while dealing with the anticipatory bail: vi. Impact of grant of anticipatory bail particularly in cases

 of large magnitude affecting a very large number of people.

 vii. The courts must evaluate the entire available material

 against the accused very carefully. The court must also clearly

 comprehend the exact role of the accused in the case. The cases

 in which accused is implicated with the help of sections 34 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code, the court should consider with

 even greater care and caution because over implication in the

 cases is a matter of common knowledge and concern;

 viii. While considering the prayer for grant of anticipatory

 bail, a balance has to be struck between two factors namely, no

 prejudice should be caused to the free, fair and full

 investigation and there should be prevention of harassment,

 humiliation and unjustified detention of the accused;

 ix. The court to consider reasonable apprehension of

 tampering of the witness or apprehension of threat to the

 complainant; x. Frivolity in prosecution should always be considered

 and it is only the element of genuineness that shall have to be

 considered in the matter of grant of bail and in the event of

 there being some doubt as to the genuineness of the

 prosecution, in the normal course of events, the accused is

 entitled to an order of bail. 123. The arrest should be the last option and it should be restricted

 to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative in

 the facts and circumstances of that case. 124. The court must carefully examine the entire available record

 and particularly the allegations which have been directly attributed to

 25 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #26#

 the accused and these allegations are corroborated by other material

 and circumstances on record. 125. These are some of the factors which should be taken into

 consideration while deciding the anticipatory bail applications. These

 factors are by no means exhaustive but they are only illustrative in

 nature because it is difficult to clearly visualise all situations and

 circumstances in which a person may pray for anticipatory bail. If a

 wise discretion is exercised by the concerned judge, after

 consideration of entire material on record then most of the grievances

 in favour of grant of or refusal of bail will be taken care of. The

 legislature in its wisdom has entrusted the power to exercise this

 jurisdiction only to the judges of the superior courts. In consonance

 with the legislative intention we should accept the fact that the

 discretion would be properly exercised. In any event, the option of

 approaching the superior court against the court of Sessions or the

 High Court is always available. 126. Irrational and Indiscriminate arrest are gross violation of

 human rights. In Joginder Kumar's case (supra), a three Judge Bench

 of this Court has referred to the 3rd report of the National Police

 Commission, in which it is mentioned that the quality of arrests by the

 Police in India mentioned power of arrest as one of the chief sources

 of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large,

 nearly 60% of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and

 that such unjustified police action accounted for 43.2% of the

 expenditure of the jails. 127. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it

 should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative according to the

 peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. 128. In case, the State consider the following suggestions in proper

 26 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #27#

 perspective then perhaps it may not be necessary to curtail the

 personal liberty of the accused in a routine manner. These suggestions

 are only illustrative and not exhaustive. 1) Direct the accused to join investigation and only when

 the accused does not cooperate with the investigating

 agency, then only the accused be arrested. 2) Seize either the passport or such other related

 documents, such as, the title deeds of properties or the

 Fixed Deposit Receipts/Share Certificates of the

 accused. number of persons which according to the prosecution

 are necessary in view of the facts of the particular case. 5) The accused be directed to furnish undertaking that he

 would not visit the place where the witnesses reside so

 that the possibility of tampering of evidence or

 otherwise influencing the course of justice can be

 avoided. 6) Bank accounts be frozen for small duration during

 investigation. 129. In case the arrest is imperative, according to the facts of the

 case, in that event, the arresting officer must clearly record the reasons

 for the arrest of the accused before the arrest in the case diary, but in

 exceptional cases where it becomes imperative to arrest the accused

 immediately, the reasons be recorded in the case diary immediately

 after the arrest is made without loss of any time so that the court has

 an opportunity to properly consider the case for grant or refusal of bail

 in the light of reasons recorded by the arresting officer. 130. Exercise of jurisdiction under section 438 of Criminal

 Procedure Code is extremely important judicial function of a judge

 and must be entrusted to judicial officers with some experience and

 good track record. Both individual and society have vital interest in

 orders passed by the courts in anticipatory bail applications. " (a) who commits, in the presence of a police officer, a

 cognizable offence; (b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made,

 or credible information has been received, or a reasonable

 suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence

 punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less

 than seven years or which may extend to seven years

 28 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #29#

 whether with or without fine, if the following conditions are

 satisfied, namely: And the police officer shall record while making such arrest,

 his reasons in writing: 29 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #30#

 police officer shall, in all cases where the arrest of a person is

 not required under the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 41 , issue a notice directing the person against whom a

 reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information

 has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has

 committed a cognizable offence, to appear before him or at

 such other place as may be specified in the notice.

 (2) Where such a notice is issued to any person, it shall be

 the duty of that person to comply with the terms of the notice.

 (3) Where such person complies and continues to comply

 with the notice, he shall not be arrested in respect of the

 offence referred to in the notice unless, for reasons to be

 recorded, the police officers is of the opinion that he ought to

 be arrested. (4) Where such person, at any time, fails to comply with

 the terms of the notice or is unwilling to identify himself, the

 police officer may, subject to such orders as may have been

 passed by a competent Court in this behalf, arrest him for the

 offence mentioned in the notice. 9.1. Hon'ble Supreme in Dr. Rini Johar & Anr. Versus State of

M.P. & Ors. 2016(11) SCC 703 while dealing with Section 41 and 41A of

Code of Criminal Procedure has opined as under: 20. Thereafter, the Court referred to Section 41 Cr.P.C. and analysing

 the said provision, opined that a person accused of an offence punishable

 with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or

 which may extend to seven years with or without fine, cannot be arrested

 by the police officer only on his satisfaction that such person had

 committed the offence. It has been further held that a police officer

 before arrest, in such cases has to be further satisfied that such arrest is

 31 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #32#

 necessary to prevent such person from committing any further offence; or

 for proper investigation of the case; or to prevent the accused from

 causing the evidence of the offence to disappear; or tampering with such

 evidence in any manner; or to prevent such person from making any

 inducement, threat or promise to a witness so as to dissuade him from

 disclosing such facts to the court or the police officer; or unless such

 accused person is arrested, his presence in the court whenever required

 cannot be ensured. These are the conclusions, which one may reach

 based on facts. Eventually, the Court was compelled to state:- 21. In the said authority, Section 41A Cr.P.C., which has been

 inserted by section 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

 Act, 2008 (5 of 2009) was introduced and in that context, it has been

 held that Section 41A Cr.P.C. makes it clear that where the arrest of a

 person is not required under Section 41(1) Cr.P.C., the police officer is

 required to issue notice directing the accused to appear before him at a

 specified place and time. Law obliges such an accused to appear before

 the police officer and it further mandates that if such an accused

 complies with the terms of notice he shall not be arrested, unless for

 reasons to be recorded, the police officer is of the opinion that the arrest

 32 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #33#

 is necessary. At this stage also, the condition precedent for arrest as

 envisaged under Section 41 Cr.P.C. has to be complied and shall be

 subject to the same scrutiny by the Magistrate as aforesaid. 22. We have referred to the enquiry report and the legal position

 prevalent in the field. On a studied scrutiny of the report, it is quite vivid

 that the arrest of the petitioners was not made by following the procedure

 of arrest. Section 41A Cr.P.C. as has been interpreted by this Court has

 not been followed. The report clearly shows there have been number of

 violations in the arrest, and seizure. Circumstances in no case justify the

 manner in which the petitioners were treated. " 10.1. The persons who are having established manufacturing units

and paying good amount of direct or indirect taxes; persons against whom

there is no documentary or otherwise concrete evidences to establish direct

involvement in the evasion of huge amounts of tax, should not be arrested

prior to determination of liability and imposition of penalty. Similarly, arrest

of Chartered Accountant or Advocates who had filed returns or otherwise

assisted in business but are not beneficiary or part of fraud merely on the

basis of statement without any corroborative evidence linking the

professional with alleged offence should be avoided. It is well known that if

top brass of a running concern is arrested, there are all possibilities of

closure of unit which results into unemployment and wastage of precious

natural resources. 11. In the case in hand, we find that Petitioner No. 2 was

interrogated on 11.9.2019 & 12.9.2019 by DGGI and thereafter handed over

to DRI, who arrested him. There is nothing on record showing admission by

Petitioner No. 2 and no further statement has been recorded in jail though he

is in judicial custody since 13.9.2019. Petitioner No. 1 has already put

appearance on various occasions and there is nothing in file to show which

indicates that Petitioner No. 1 was connected with alleged illegal refund

 34 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #35#

sought by Exporters. Concededly, the Petitioner No. 1 is neither proprietor

nor partner nor shareholder of any Exporter Concern/Firm/Company, who

availed refund of IGST. There is no evidence of transfer of funds in the

accounts of Petitioners or withdrawal of cash by any one of them. The

Petitioner No. 1 is in legal profession since 2017 and after introduction of

GST he had not dealt with directly or indirectly with export consignments.

The Respondent has produced copy of an order dated 1.10.2019 (date of

hearing 22.5.2019) passed by Tribunal wherein Petitioner No. 1 has

represented Appellants as an Advocate which buttress the argument of

Petitioner that he in practice and appeared as an Advocate on behalf of four

exporters who availed alleged illegal refund of IGST. 12. We find that it is case of some mis-understanding between

Petitioners and officers of Respondent/DGGI who now want to implicate

Petitioner and his family members. The investigation is going on for last

couple of months and Respondents are unable to produce any evidence

showing direct involvement of Petitioners. The Respondent did not record

statement while both the Petitioners were in judicial custody for a week in

FIR dated 15.8.2019 lodged at the instance of DGGI, and till date no

statement of Petitioner No. 2 has been recorded though he is in judicial

custody since 13.9.2019. The Respondent-DGGI handed over Petitioner No.

2 to DRI after recording his statement and there is nothing on record to

show that he made any confession. The Respondents are recording one after

another statement of Petitioner No. 1 (Akhil Krishan Maggu) with perhaps

to intimidate him in giving a self incriminating confession. They have not

been able to arrest him because of the oral assurance given before this

Court, and have not handed him over to DRI for arrest because he is not

 35 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 ::: CWP No.24195 of 2019(O&M) #36#

required by DRI in any case. Intention of Respondents seems only to arrest

Petitioner No. 1, one way or the other, which is evident from the fact that

Petitioner No. 2 was handed over to DRI without concluding investigation

at least qua petitioner no.2 and there is nothing contained in different

affidavits of Respondent, filed before this Court, indicating that

involvement of Petitioner No. 2 is apparent from his statements. 13. Though the Petitioners have prayed quashing of summons,

however on the directions of this Court both the Petitioners had already put

their appearance. The Petitioner No. 2 was handed over to DRI on

12.9.2019 and since 13.9.2019 he is in judicial custody, hence no direction

is warranted qua him, however qua Petitioner No. 1 (Akhil Krishan

Maggu), we deem it appropriate to direct to Respondent not to take him in

custody without prior approval of this court. The Petitioner No. 1 shall

appear before Respondent as and when summoned between 10 AM to 5 PM. 14. Petition is disposed of in above terms. We make it clear that we

have not expressed any opinion on merits of the controversy and

Respondents are free to continue with their investigation and thereafter

proceed as per law. ( JASWANT SINGH )
 JUDGE

 ( LALIT BATRA )
 JUDGE
November 15th, 2019
Vinay
 Whether speaking/reasoned Yes/No
 Whether Reportable Yes/No

 36 of 36 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2019 09:25:56 :::