M/s. Opee Stock Link Ltd. 27/1 Cloth Commercial Centre,
 Sakar Bazaar, Ahmedabad - 380 002. Gujarat. 2. Mr. Ashok K. Bagrecha
 Director, Opee Stock Link Ltd.,
 27/1 Cloth Commercial Centre,
 Sakar Bazaar, Ahmedabad - 380 002. Gujarat. ...... Appellants

Versus

The Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. ...... Respondent

Mr. Sanjay Mehta, Advocate for Appellants. Mr. Kumar Desai and Ms. Daya Gupta, Advocates for the Respondent.

CORAM : Justice N.K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer
 Samar Ray, Member

Per : Justice N.K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer

 Whether the appellants had cornered the retail portion of the shares issued by Jet

Airways Limited and Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited in the Initial

Public Offerings (IPOs) made by them is the short question that arises for our

consideration in this bunch of five Appeals no.16 to 20 of 2009. These appeals raise

similar questions of law and fact and are being disposed of by a common order. Since

arguments were addressed in Appeal no. 20 of 2009, the facts are being taken from this

case and reference to the facts in other appeals shall be made wherever necessary.

Counsel for the parties are agreed that the decision in this case shall govern the other 2 appeals as well. These appeals are an offshoot of the Initial Public Offerings (IPO) scam

that was unearthed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short the Board) in

the year 2005-06. The Board received some information regarding the alleged abuse and

misuse of the IPO allotment process. It initiated a probe. A preliminary analysis of the

buying, selling and dealing in the shares issued through IPOs of various companies

during the period 2003-05 showed that certain entities opened many demat accounts in

fictitious/benami names and the said entities had cornered/acquired the shares of those

companies allotted in the IPOs by making applications in fictitious/benami names with

each of the applications being of small value so as to make it eligible for allotment under

the retail category. Investigations further revealed that subsequent to the allotment of

IPO shares, the fictitious/benami allottees transferred the said shares to their principals

who were identified by the Board as key operators/master account holders. The Board

was prima facie of the view that thousands of entities in whose names demat accounts

and bank accounts had been opened and IPO applications made were either benami

(name lenders) or non-existent. Pending investigations, the Board by an ad-interim ex-

parte order dated April 27, 2006, inter alia, directed Shri Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain and

Opee Stock-Link Limited, the appellants now before us, not to buy, sell or deal in the

securities market including the IPOs directly or indirectly till further orders. In this

interim order the Board noticed that several key operators/master account holders along

with financiers through a large number of afferent accounts had manipulated the IPO

allotment process by cornering a substantial number of shares allotted in the IPOs which

were meant for retail individual investors. In the interim order, the Board defined the

terms 'financier', 'key operators' and 'afferent accounts' as under: The modus operandi adopted by the delinquent entities for cornering retail portion of IPO

shares was pictorially depicted as under: It is also alleged that the first appellant purchased the shares from the benami demat

account holders at the rate of Rs.1170 per share which price was much lower than the

then prevailing market price. The break-up of the shares that were transferred to the first

appellant in off-market transactions has been given in the show cause notice which is as

under: Date Total off market share transfer
 Till 12.03.05 (day before date of listing) 3272 (232x14,3x8)
 14.03.05 (date of listing) 3598 (148x14,84x1,1442x1)
 15.03.05 to 09.05.05 5183
 12053

The show cause notice further alleges that some of the demat account holders who

transferred the shares to the first appellant had a common address and that there were

several discrepancies in the signatures of most of the beneficial owners of those accounts

in the declarations made by them which the appellants produced in their defence.

Reference is then made to the IPO of Infrastructure Development Finance Company

Limited (IDFC) in which Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain (appellant in Appeals no. 17 and

19 of 2009 which are also being disposed of by this order) is said to have cornered shares 5 from fictitious demat account holders in a like manner. It is alleged that the first appellant

and the said Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain had cornered shares in the two IPOs (Jet

Airways and IDFC) from 378 common demat account holders. It is also alleged that the

second appellant is a relative of Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain who cornered shares in the

IPO of IDFC. The modus operandi referred to above has been stated in the show cause

notice to be fraudulent by which the appellants cornered the shares meant for retail

investors through 553 benami/fictitious accounts to the detriment of the retail investors. It

is then alleged that the first appellant sold the shares in the market at a higher price and

made an unlawful gain of Rs.12,02,302 which was worked out on the basis of the

difference between the purchase price of Rs.1170 and the average sale price of

Rs.1296.12. The second appellant is said to have made an illegal gain of Rs.2,24,280 on

the sale of 2520 shares which had been transferred to him by the first appellant. In view

of all these allegations, the appellants were said to have violated section 12A of the Act

and Regulations 3 and 4(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of

Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Markets) Regulations, 2003

(for short the Regulations). The appellants did not file any reply to this show cause

notice but relied upon the replies they had filed to the ad-interim ex-parte order dated

April 27, 2006 which was treated as a show cause notice in which they denied all the

allegations. They were afforded a personal hearing by the whole time member and they

also filed their written submissions. On a consideration of the entire material collected

during the course of the investigations and the enquiry conducted under Section 11B of

the Act and taking note of the oral and written submissions made on behalf of the

appellants, the whole time member came to the conclusion that the appellants employed a

manipulative and deceptive device to corner the shares meant for retail individual

investors in the IPO of Jet Airways and this, according to him, was to the detriment of the

retail investors and violative of Section 12A of the Act and Regulations 3 and 4(1) of the

Regulations. By his order dated December 31, 2008 the whole time member restrained

the first appellant from buying, selling or dealing in securities market for a period of one

year in addition to the period for which it had already been restrained by the ad-interim 6 ex-parte order which was later confirmed. The first appellant was also directed to

disgorge a sum of Rs.12,02,302 and interest thereon @ 10 per cent per annum from the

date of listing of the IPO till actual payment. A further direction was issued that in case

the first appellant failed to disgorge the amount, it shall remain out of the securities

market for another period of five years without prejudice to the right of the Board to

enforce the disgorgement. The second appellant had also been restrained from buying,

selling, or dealing in the securities market for a further period of two years in addition to

the period for which he had already been restrained under the ad-interim ex-parte order.

He was also directed to disgorge the unlawful gain of Rs.2,24,280 allegedly made by him

along with interest thereon @ 10 per cent per annum. In case the second appellant failed

to disgorge the amount, he was to remain out of the securities market for an additional

period of ten years without prejudice to the right of the Board to enforce the

disgorgement. It is against this order that the present appeal has been filed under Section

15T of the Act. 3. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have carefully gone through

the impugned order and also the record to which reference was made by the learned

counsel on both sides during the course of the hearing. The primary argument of the

learned counsel for the appellant is that his clients while trading in the shares of Jet

Airways had committed no wrong and that they did not corner the shares in the IPO

allotment as alleged. He further submitted that the appellants purchased the shares from

the original allottees in the IPO in off-market transactions and that there is no prohibition

in law in their doing so nor is there any bar in their subsequent sale in the securities

market. He also submitted that merely because the appellants made some profit by

subsequently selling the shares in the market does not justify the passing of the order of

disgorgement against them which, according to him, is patently erroneous and wholly

unjustified. Shri Kumar Desai learned counsel for the Board, on the other hand,

strenuously urged that the appellants are a part of the IPO scam who cornered shares

which were meant for the retail investors thereby depriving those investors of their

rightful claim under the IPO. The argument on behalf of the Board is that 553 demat 7 account holders were mere name lenders who transferred the shares to the first appellant

under a pre-designed manipulative scheme which was meant to deprive the genuine retail

investors of their due. It was further argued on behalf of the Board that after cornering the

shares as alleged, the appellants sold them in the market at a price much higher than the

purchase price and thereby made windfall gains through illegal means. The learned

counsel sought to justify the order of disgorgement passed by the whole time member. 4. In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the parties, it is necessary to notice

what the IPO scam was. The Board in its omnibus order of April 27, 2006 referred to

above, had spelt out the common modus operandi resorted to by a very large number of

entities by which they cornered the IPO shares issued by several companies meant for the

retail individual investors. Retail individual investor is one who applies or bids for

securities of or for a value of not more than Rs.50,000 which amount was subsequently

raised to Rs.1 lac w.e.f. 4.4.2005. It must also be remembered that before one could apply

for shares, it was necessary for the applicant to have a demat account in which the shares

could be credited on allotment. Large number of entities had cornered IPO shares

reserved for retail applicants by making applications in the retail category through the

medium of thousands of fictitious/benami IPO applicants with each of the application

being for small value so as to be eligible for allotment under the retail category. Such

entities had, before applying, opened demat accounts in the names of the applicants

which too were fictitious/benami. All these applications had been sponsored / financed

directly or indirectly by those who were the ultimate beneficiaries of the scam. The

strategy adopted was that subsequent to the receipt of IPO allotment, these

fictitious/benami allottees transferred the shares to their principals who controlled their

accounts and who, in turn, transferred the shares to the financiers that had originally

made available the funds for executing the game plan. In view of the booming market,

financiers then sold most of these shares on the first day of listing or soon thereafter

thereby making a windfall gain of the price difference between issue price and the listing

price. In the very scheme of things, the manipulative process of cornering IPO shares

started with the opening of fictitious /benami demat accounts. In other words, opening of 8 such accounts was the first step towards achieving the sinister object of cornering retail

allotment. The second step in the manipulative process as pictorially depicted in the

order of April 27,2006 and referred to in paragraph 1 above, is the transfer of shares from

the fictitious/benami demat accounts to the demat accounts of the key operators for

temporary parking of credits for onward transfer to the financiers who were the ultimate

beneficiaries of the scam. The third step was the transfer of the temporary credits from

the demat accounts of the key operators to the financiers who had financed the entire

game plan and with the sale of shares by the financiers, the IPO scam was complete. In

the order dated April 27, 2006 which was subsequently confirmed and on the basis of

which the show cause notice was issued to the appellants before us, the first appellant and

Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain (appellant in Appeals no. 17 and 19 of 2009) have been

identified as key operators in the IPO scam which allegation they have emphatically

denied. Now let us see what the whole time member of the Board has found against the

appellants in the impugned order. He has recorded a categorical finding in para 10(e) that

there is no material on the record to establish that the 553 demat account holders from

whom the shares were transferred in the name of the first appellant were benami or

fictitious. This is what he has said in this paragraph: Even though the 553 demat accounts and their account holders from whom the shares

were transferred to the first appellant were genuine, the impugned order holds that all of

them were name lenders and were hand-in-glove with the appellants. He has given

reasons to arrive at this conclusion which we shall deal with a little later. Since all the

553 demat accounts and their holders were genuine, they do not fit into the manipulative

scheme of the IPO scam. As already noticed, the IPO scam started with thousands of

fictitious applicants applying for allotment of shares in the retail category after opening 9 fictitious/benami demat accounts. In view of the finding recorded by the whole time

member that the 553 demat accounts were genuine, the very first link in the IPO scam

chain, so far as the appellants are concerned, is broken. It follows from the finding that

not only the demat accounts but also the applicants who applied for the IPO shares were

genuine retail investors. It is not the case of the Board that the applications filed by the

553 demat account holders for the allotment of IPO shares in the retail category had been

financed by the appellants. In the absence of such an allegation, it cannot but be

presumed that genuine retail investors with proper demat accounts had applied for shares

with their own funds and were allotted IPO shares in the retail category. Can such an

allotment be described as 'cornering of shares' in the IPO. The answer to this question

can only be in the negative. We are unable to agree with the whole time member that the

genuineness of the 553 demat accounts and their holders does not make any material

difference to the main charge levelled against the appellants that they cornered the shares

in the IPO allotment. 5. There is yet another reason why the appellants cannot be held guilty of the

charges levelled against them. In the interim order dated April 27, 2006, which is the

basis of all the enquiries held against several entities including the appellants allegedly

involved in the IPO scam, the first appellant and Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain, the

appellant in the connected appeals, were identified as key operators in different IPOs.

The term key operator was given a specific meaning in the context of the IPO scam and

that definition has been referred to in para 1 of our order. According to that definition, a

key operator is one who allowed his demat account for temporary parking of credits

received from afferent account (s) before transfer to the financiers. On the basis of the

investigations carried out by the Board in which the appellants were identified as key

operators, they were served with a show cause notice dated November 24, 2008 and the

allegation made against them is as under: The appellants in their reply to the interim order of April 27, 2006 which had been treated

as a show cause notice had specifically denied that they acted as key operators in the IPO

scam. However, on a consideration of the material collected during the investigations

and the enquiry conducted by the whole time member and for the reasons that he stated in

paragraph 10 of the impugned order with which we shall be dealing a little later, he

concluded in paragraph 11 of the impugned order as under: 6. What actually happened in the present case was that genuine retail investors

holding proper demat accounts had applied for the shares in the IPO of Jet Airways

Limited in the retail category. The retail segment of the issue was oversubscribed by 2.9

times and, therefore, in consultation with NSE, the issuer company finalized the basis of

allocation to the retail investors. It is not in dispute that the maximum shares that were

allotted to any retail investor was 14 or less. From the chart showing the basis of

allocation to the retail investors which was produced before us during the course of the

hearing, it is clear that the retail investors were allotted shares in packages of 6,8,10,12 &

14 depending upon the number of shares applied for. Once the allotment was made to the

retail investors and shares credited to their demat accounts, the allotment process in the

IPO was complete and the allottees were free to trade those shares in the secondary

market even before the listing. Since the shares were initially allotted to the retail

investors on the basis of the applications filed by them with their own funds, it cannot be

said that there was any cornering of shares in the allotment of IPO shares. As already

noticed, the shares were allotted to the retail investors not as benamis as they had applied

with their own funds and it was thereafter that they sold the shares to the appellants in the

secondary market in off-market transactions at the rate of Rs. 1170 per share. Off-market

transactions are per se not illegal and this is not the charge against the appellants either.

There is nothing to debar the allottees to trade the shares in the secondary market after

receiving the allotment under the retail category. Trading and speculation are the two

basic activities in the securities market and the Board as a regulator steps in only when

such trade or speculation violate the provisions of the securities laws which are meant to

protect the market integrity and interest of the investors. We see no such transgression in

the instant case. Once the allotment is made in the primary market by the issuer 12 companies to the genuine applicants, there is nothing to stop them from trading those

shares in the secondary market immediately thereafter, which quite a few investors do,

and this is what the securities market is all about. When we look at the break-up of the

shares that were transferred/sold by the 553 retail investors to the first appellant in off-

market transactions, it is clear that majority of the shares were transferred before listing,

that is, till the price discovery mechanism of the exchanges was activated which

happened only on and after the date of listing. The IPO opened on February 18, 2005 and

closed on February 24, 2005 and the shares were listed on March 14, 2005. There is

good reason for some of the small-time investors to dispose of their shares even before

they are listed because they have a limited financial and risk taking capacity. Because of

the uncertainty as to the price of the scrip on its listing, which may be higher than the

issue price or could be even lower, the small-time investors do not mind trading in those

shares at a lower but safe margin. In the instant case, the issue price was Rs.1100 and the

demat account holders sold them at Rs.1170 to the first appellant. The shares which were

listed on March 14, 2005 opened at Rs.1211 per share and closed at Rs.1305 per share

and the lowest price during the course of the day at which the shares traded is Rs.1172.

In this background, there is nothing unusual if the retail investors sold/transferred their

shares at Rs.1170 per share. Since the appellants purchased the shares from all the demat

account holders in the secondary market after those had been allotted to them by the

issuer company and unless it can be shown that the allotment was benami/fictitious, it

cannot be held that the appellants cornered the shares in the IPO allotment. There is no

question of cornering shares in the secondary market and, if one were to do that, it would

be perfectly lawful and justified so long as the disclosure and other legal requirements are

complied with. We are, therefore, satisfied that there was no cornering of shares by the

appellants. 7. We shall now examine the reasons given by the whole time member for holding

that the charge of cornering by the appellants of shares meant for retail investors stands

established. The first reason mentioned by him is that 28 demat account holders had a

common address. They were genuine persons with genuine demat accounts and they had 13 applied for the shares with their own funds. These facts are enough to establish the bona

fides of the allottees and, in any case, the appellants are not really concerned with their

addresses. It will not be out of place to mention that the appellants have admitted that

some of them were their friends and relatives. Common addresses of some of the demat

account holders do not carry us any further. The other reason which weighed with the

whole time member is that the signatures of the demat account holders in the declarations

made by them which were produced by the appellants in their defence did not tally with

the signatures in their demat accounts with the depository participants/depository. This

ground to our mind is very flimsy. How can a doubt arise merely because Anita P. Shah

has signed as Anita or Ankit Chandamal Bhandari signed as Ankit C. Bhandri. The other

instances referred to in the show cause notice and relied upon in the impugned order are

equally tenuous. The appellants seem to have argued before the whole time member that

the demat account holders had come to them for trading their shares as they did not have

trading accounts. He has referred to 5 instances out of 553 to say that they had trading

accounts. Even if this was a sample checking, it does not establish the charge against the

appellants. He also doubts as to why the account holders came to the appellants when the

later were not brokers/sub-brokers. These are not the issues which could establish the

guilt of the appellants. Even if the appellants are not saying the truth, it would not

establish the charge of cornering shares. So what if the appellants had approached the

demat account holders to purchase their shares with a view to make profit in the

secondary market and there is nothing unusual about it. What has weighed with the whole

time member is that the appellants were not registered stock brokers and there was no

occasion for the demat account holders to approach them for broking activities. There is

no evidence of broking in these transactions and the appellants have only purchased the

shares in off market transactions from the demat account holders in the secondary market

and further sold them. In other words, they did not sell the shares in the market on behalf

of the allottees. The factors referred to in para 10 of the impugned order individually or

collectively do not establish the unholy alliance between the appellants on the one hand

and the demat account holders on the other to manipulate the allotment of IPO shares in 14 the retail category. The fact that 553 demat account holders transferred the shares on

allotment to the first appellant at the same price of Rs.1170 per share may raise a doubt

but it cannot be disputed that each one of them had a genuine demat account and they

applied for the shares with their own funds. In these circumstances it is difficult to hold

that they were mere name lenders. The preponderance of probabilities is surely tilted in

favour of the appellants. It will not be out of place to mention that we have had the

occasion to deal with some of the IPO scam cases where we had taken a serious note of

the manner in which some of the entities had cornered the IPO shares meant for allotment

to retail individual investors. In all those cases, the Board was able to establish that the

appellants therein had acted as 'financiers' or 'key operators' as understood in the context

of the IPO scam and were the actual and illegal beneficiaries of those shares meant for

retail investors and to make those illegal gains they had operated through various

benami/fictitious accounts in benami and fictitious names. The Board also found in all

those cases that the applications of all the allottees had been financed by the financiers

directly or through the key operators and it was for this reason that the allottees were held

to be mere name lenders. Obviously, such operators who cornered shares in the primary

market at the time of the IPO allotment deserve strictest punishment as they vitiated the

IPO allotment process. It is not so in the cases before us and the facts of the present case

are totally different. The appellants did not corner any shares in the primary market in the

segment meant for the retail investors. 8. This brings us to the other aspect of the impugned order by which the whole time

member has directed the appellants to disgorge the unlawful gains made by them. He has

found that the first appellant purchased the shares at Rs.1170 per share from the demat

account holders and sold them in the market at an average price of Rs.1296.92 per share

and on the basis of the difference between these prices he has worked out the alleged

unlawful gain made by the first appellant to Rs.12,02,302. In the case of the second

appellant who sold 2520 shares, the alleged illegal gain is worked out to Rs.2,24,280.

Both the appellants have been directed to disgorge these amounts. We had an occasion to

deal with the concept of disgorgement in Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v. Securities and 15 Exchange Board of India Appeal No. 6 of 2007 decided on 2.5.2008 and this is what we

observed in that case : In the present case we have held that the appellants committed no wrong when they

traded in the shares in the secondary market and that the charge against them of cornering

shares in the IPO allotment process is not established. In view of these findings, the

question of directing them to disgorge any amount does not arise. The direction in the

impugned order requiring them to disgorge the amounts cannot, therefore, be sustained.

While on the disgorgement issue, it is interesting to note the anomaly that has arisen due

to the vastly different figures worked out by the whole time member and the adjudicating

officer regarding the quantum of illegal gains allegedly made by the appellants. While the

whole time member found that the first appellant had made an unlawful gain of

Rs.12,02,302, the adjudicating officer came to the conclusion that this appellant had

made an unlawful gain of Rs.24 lacs. Again, in the case of the second appellant, the

whole time member found that he made an unlawful gain of Rs.2,24,280 whereas the

adjudicating officer found that he made a gain of only Rs.16,931/-. Similarly in the case

of Deepakkumar Shantilal Jain, the whole time member found that he made an unlawful

gain of more than Rs.54 lacs whereas the adjudicating officer found that he made an

illegal gain of more than Rs.84 lacs. Since we are setting aside the impugned orders on

the ground that the appellants had not cornered any shares in the retail segment of the 16 IPOs, it is not necessary for us to dwell any further on this issue. However, we cannot

resist observing that this anomaly has arisen because the Act enables the Board to initiate

parallel proceedings on the same set of facts against a delinquent for issuing directions

under Section 11B on the one hand and adjudication proceedings under Chapter VIA for

the imposition of monetary penalties on the other. It is not in dispute that directions

under Section 11B of the Act are issued by the Board whereas proceedings under Chapter

VIA are conducted by an adjudicating officer who is a subordinate officer of the Board

and it is he who passes the final order. As both sets of proceedings are independent of

each other, as is often argued on behalf of the Board, the possibility of conflicting views

on the same set of facts cannot be ruled out. In a given case, the whole time member may

hold the delinquent guilty of the charge levelled and the adjudicating officer may

completely absolve him of the same or vice versa. Such anomalous situations could arise

and these would not be in public interest. We feel that if only one enquiry is held against

the delinquent and on the basis of the findings recorded therein, the same body is given

the power to issue directions and impose monetary penalties as well, it would not only

expedite matters but also avoid conflicting opinions. This would obviously require an

amendment in the Act which is in the exclusive domain of Parliament. For the reasons recorded above, we allow the appeals, set aside the impugned

orders leaving the parties to bear their own costs. In view of the observations made in para 8 above, we direct that a copy of this

order be sent to the Finance Secretary, Government of India, New Delhi for information

and whatever necessary action that he may deem fit. Sd/- Justice N. K. Sodhi
 Presiding Officer

 Sd/- Samar Ray
 Member

30.12.2009
ddg/- Prepared and compared by - ddg