I saw add for selling nikon dslr 5600 on facebook and contacted the person naming manjeet singh pretending himself to be an army men from amabala military base. I asked him to send me receipt copy and asked him why is he selling so cheap then he avoided to answer telling me that you don't believe an army person. Even though i do not respond to buy and before further discussion he asked me to deposit of rs 1049/- and pay remaining amount after receiving the parcel. He convinced me a lot telling me that he is an hawaldar in indian army. I made a advance payment of rs 1049/- using online payment app google pay and bhim app. I asked him to give his nationalised bank account but he refused to give the same saying they are not allowed to make these transactions in army and gave me paytm bank account details of someone. The person manjeet ensured me that delivery will be done with in 24 hrs and to pay remaining amount after delivery of parcel. Meanwhile he send me picture of parcel pakaging and army transport receipt showing bill details. The next day the delivery person called me from number showing sena courier on watsup and informed me to pay remaining balance amount as the parcel cannot be delivered without payment as it was showing some error. Then i talked with manjeet then he send me id cards (Army canteen card and aadhar card) from watsup no [protected]. I was forced to make payment of total of rs 51648/- (Advance payment rs 1049+ remaining balance rs 12000+rs 7150 + 7150 security deposit, + rs 14300/- insurance and gst, + rs 9999/- as transport from other state) i was asked to make one by one payments and if payments are not done the parcel and paid amount will be blocked for 3 months. I was forced to make payment telling me that the parcel and paid amount will be kept on hold for 3 months and i made all the payments thinking that he is a army person and in this covid situation he might be in trouble. I have lost a complete amount of rs 51648/-. Till today i have requested him to repay me as even today i have not received any parcel or not received any amount from him. And even today he is asking me more money to unlock the parcel. Today also his contact number and the number of person showing sena courier both these mobile numbers are in working condition. He has blocked my number as i am continuously asking to repay my amount. Sir i request you to take strict action against him and whomsoever is involved in such fraud cases and shall be punished and recover all my money back. I am attaching herewith all his i’d details and transaction details. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)