5. Except as otherwise provided for herein or with the prior
 written approval of RTGS, the Code Tree and/or Code Tree's team shall
 not:- b. Market, sell, or make commercial or derivative use of the
 RTGS data, Deliverable or Assets, RTGS contents/contents of services
 and information; HCJ & RRR, J 4 W.A.No.72 of 2024 c. Publish, publicly perform or display, or distribute to any third
 party any RTGS data, Deliverables or RTGS contents/contents of
 Government services and information, including reproduction on any
 computer network or broadcast or publications media; d. Use, frame, or utilize framing techniques to enclose any
 portion of the RTGS data, Deliverables or RTGS contents/contents of
 services and information (including images, any text or the
 layout/design, form or content of any page or otherwise)." 6. According to 1.19.1, failure on the part of the Code Tree to perform

any of its obligations would constitute an event of default on the part of

the Code Tree, and would entail the consequences as contained in

1.19.2, which is reproduced hereunder: 2. Suspend all corresponding and relevant payments to the Code
 Tree under the Agreement (except for milestones which have been
 successfully achieved) by written notice of suspension to the Code Tree
 provided that such notice of suspension shall (a) specify the nature of
 failure; and (b) request the Code Tree to remedy such failure within a specified
 period from the date of receipt of such notice of suspension by the Code
 Tree. ....." HCJ & RRR, J 5 W.A.No.72 of 2024 7. Learned counsel for the appellant would urge that the issue of data

breach was a serious issue, which entailed claims by third parties whose

data had been breached, which may involve financial burden on the

appellant, and therefore withholding of the amount in question was

justified and purely in accordance with the terms and conditions of the

agreement. Apart from this, it was stated that having taken a decision to

withhold the payment pending the investigation by the police, it was not

open to the learned single Judge to order payment to the petitioner, more

so in view of the fact that there was an arbitration clause, being clause

number 1.34, which envisaged the dispute resolution through the

mechanism of arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 . The factum of the existence of the

arbitration clause was not denied by the respondent No.1 herein. 8. The issues that are required to consider at this stage are whether

this Court ought to exercise its writ jurisdiction in a concluded contract

between the parties and whether the withholding of the payment due to

the petitioner was justified in the facts and circumstances of the case. 9. The scope of the exercise of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of

the Constitution of India in contractual matters has recently been

considered by this bench in Srinivasulu Reddy & Co. v. State of A.P.1 ,

relying upon the judgment of the Apex Court among others in MP Power 1 2024 SCC OnLine AP 867
 HCJ & RRR, J 6 W.A.No.72 of 2024 Management Co. Ltd v. Skypower Southeast Solar India (P) Limited2,

in which the Apex Court, while holding that existence of an arbitration

provision could be viewed as a near bar to the entertainment of a writ

petition and existence of an alternate remedy must be borne in mind in

declining relief in a writ petition in a contractual matter, yet, held that

there was no prohibition on the writ Court in deciding even disputed

questions of fact, particularly when the dispute pertained only to

demystifying of documents. In paragraph 82.12 of the said judgment, the

Apex Court held: 10. As seen from the preceding paragraphs, it is not denied that a sum

of Rs.1,40,42,000/- is due and payable to the petitioner, which has been

withheld on account of the alleged data breach attributed to the

petitioner. According to the terms and conditions of the agreement, any

failure in the discharge of its obligations as per the agreement would

constitute a default, which would enable the withholding of the payment

to the petitioner in terms of clause 1.19. The action of the appellant in

withholding the amount due to the petitioner, therefore, cannot be said to

be such as would deserve to be called arbitrary. Ultimately, the issue

may have to be considered and established before an appropriate forum,

i.e., the arbitral tribunal, whether there was in fact a data breach and

whether the same could be attributed to the petitioner. If the appellant

fails to prove the same, the amount would be payable, and if not, then

perhaps the action of the appellant may be justified. 11. Therefore, in our opinion, this was not a case where a direction

should have been issued to the appellant to make the payment,

especially in light of the allegations made against the petitioner with

regard to data breach and the relevant provisions of the agreement,

which were invoked for purposes of withholding the amount. The
 HCJ & RRR, J 8 W.A.No.72 of 2024 petitioner ought to have been relegated to the remedy of arbitration in the

present case. 12. Be that as it may, we allow the writ appeal and the judgment and

order impugned is accordingly set aside. No costs. Pending miscellaneous applications, if any, shall stand closed. HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE DHIRAJ SINGH THAKUR, CHIEF JUSTICE
 &
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE R. RAGHUNANDAN RAO WRIT APPEAL No.72 of 2024 DATE : 10.05.2024

AKN