SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Rant - What are we even doing here?
DATE: 2019-10-28
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/do5hj9/rant_what_are_we_even_doing_here/

--- POST TEXT ---

What are we even doing here? For millennia, the uber rich have controlled the world. With access to better education, networking, medical, climate, resources, and technology, is it even fair for someone from a third world country or other developing nations to dream about achieving the kind of lifestyle that an average first world citizen takes for granted?

&amp;#x200B;

Spending most of your childhood and early adulthood studying and training to land a middling job in a company is what is defined as success today. People want security and stability - something these companies seem to promise. Yet, there have been an incredible number of stories about people getting laid off for no other reason than the company hit a rough patch for once in several years. 

&amp;#x200B;

And then there are startups, the latest in a list of Ponzi schemes designed to drain the finance out of people looking to make money. With scumbag CEOs who are able to raise funding based off of their networks from ivy league colleges (that their daddy paid a dear amount to get them into), who have absolutely no business acumen, giving themselves salaries in millions of dollars, while the wide eyed, naive poor people or immigrants who have worked hard their entire lives in the hopes of bettering their lifestyles struggle to pay rent till they are laid off, what are we even doing here? 

&amp;#x200B;

Echo chambers are designed to consolidate like minded people into their own virtual spaces. With confirmation bias playing a significant role in hindering mental evolution, is it really a surprise that people are getting dumber by the day? For a society to be healthy and functional, different points of view must be at the very least - considered. But, when all you hear are cheers for your bigoted and backward views - it marks the end of higher thought. 

&amp;#x200B;

The system is broken - and neither democracy nor socialism/communism is the answer. Dictatorship isn’t either. Just for clarity, violence and anger are not the answers either. The last 20 years have seen the kind of global change that our ancestors could never have imagined. Yet, our philosophies of governance have not evolved. Our constitutions are old, and our leaders are too far gone. We need to come up with new ways - starting from scratch - to govern ourselves if we want to take the next step to human evolution.