What’s the news: Opening an Airtel Payments Bank account becomes easier but with greater privacy risks as the telecom company introduces face authentication-based e-KYC, said Financial Express (FE).

As per the report, users previously had to link their Aadhaar card to open an account and then carry out OTP verification or biometric fingerprint authentication. As per a statement, the company introduced this new system to ‘improve’ user experience by becoming the “primary provider” of such a facility. Anubrata Biswas, CEO & MD of Airtel Payments Bank, said in the statement that face verification is a huge step to provide “inclusive banking in the country.”

“This KYC facility uses AI/ML based Face Authentication RD Application, which helps in the prevention of fraudulent activities by cross-checking [an] individual’s photo with the image captured in Aadhaar and allows secure customer onboarding,” he said.

Why it matters: Facial recognition is not an exact technology. Even the systems used by Delhi police to detect alleged miscreants during riots are often only 80 percent accurate . Moreover, the UIDAI has explicitly said it “ provides no assurance ” of demographic data accuracy. On the other hand, the Delhi High Court in 2018 pushed for OTP verification over biometric authentication in a case relating to issuance of SIM cards. This raises questions on why the company feels switching to facial recognition is a good idea – that too at a time when citizens have no safeguards against the misuse of such technology. User privacy may also be compromised if the private company tries to become the primary provider of such a service for the sake of something as vague as “user experience.”

Airtel Payments Bank and NPCI join hands: Just before the face authentication announcement, the company had announced a collaboration with the National Payments Corporation of India’s (NPCI) – National Financial Switch (NFS), said FE. As per the report, Airtel hoped to facilitate ATM transactions for non-residents of metropolitan cities by making this move.

The company claimed that a face authentication method made newly introduced digital banking convenient to Indian users. Yet, considering this option will be open to users upon reaching 500,000 banking points and that many Aadhaar holders have partial biometrics, it is unsure how this move will be “more inclusive.”

Users with a dated photo in their Aadhaar card may also face difficulties owing to facial recognition software’s imperfect accuracy. Still, the company said banking correspondents can open accounts on behalf of users using the same face authentication feature. The feature yet to get reviews from users.

What’s wrong with OTP? AS per a joint report by think tanks Deepstrat and The Dialogue, OTPs are harder to break through than conventional passwords owing to their one-time usage. However, many Indian users are still ignorant to cyber literacy, resulting in some individuals sharing their OTPs to outside entity. Even so, OTP is considered as an important security safeguard.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event