#countryholidaysinnandsuites — fake promises to sell the membership, id chisdls774453. I want my money back Mr. Raunit, venue manager of this company sold the membership with fake promises to me with membership id chisdls774453. At the time of membership they told that i can avail 3 room per day for any trip. When i tried to book the trip to udaipur, they are denying to book 3 room as they said you cant book 3 room because you have owned a membership only for 1 room. I purchase this only in terms that they will provide 3 rooms everytime when we go for vacation with family, now they denying the statement. Actually they denied all the things said at the time presentation. I have paid 140000 for this membership with amc extra. Almost 250000 for nothing. I need to cancel the memership without availing any single trip. Please cancel my membership asap and refund the full amount. I got below email from them: Dear member, Greeting for the day!!! Would like to apologies for the inconvenience caused to you. We cannot proceed your booking as per 03 rooms that you have been asked as your membership allows booking for 2 adults and 2 kids below 6 years and one room can be provided Kindly share the details of the person as per one room so that we can proceed further. Requesting you to confirm us as soon as possible might be possible that property option sold out. Complaint marked as resolved Nov 16, 2018 No step had been taken to resolve my issue, i had mail many time but no reply on my matter, venue manager fraud with us. Now the company refuse to provide the facilities as per venue manager suggest Still issue pending, help us to resolve the issue and payment Updated by gauravpriyabhutani, nov 14, 2018 [resolved] country holidays inn suites — fake promises to sell the membership, id chisdls774453 1 review Gauravpriyabhutani on aug 8, 2018 Mr. Raunit, venue manager of this company sold the membership with fake promises to me with membership id chisdls774453. At the time of membership they told that i can avail 3 room per day for any trip. When i tried to book the trip to udaipur, they are denying to book 3 room as they said you cant book 3 room because you have owned a membership only for 1 room. I purchase this only in terms that they will provide 3 rooms everytime when we go for vacation with family, now they denying the statement. Actually they denied all the things said at the time presentation. I have paid 140000 for this membership with amc extra. Almost 250000 for nothing. I need to cancel the memership without availing any single trip. Please cancel my membership asap and refund the full amount. I got below email from them: Dear member, Greeting for the day!!! Would like to apologies for the inconvenience caused to you. We cannot proceed your booking as per 03 rooms that you have been asked as your membership allows booking for 2 adults and 2 kids below 6 years and one room can be provided Kindly share the details of the person as per one room so that we can proceed further. Requesting you to confirm us as soon as possible might be possible that property option sold out Update Fake international properties in website, you can't book any of them. They don't own a single property still they demanding amc 🤣🤣 Promises done at the time of purchasing membership 1 multiple room will be provided for your family - fake 2 booking as per our online website property - Fake 3 breakfast included if you pay payment right now- Fake 4 amc condition after payment done, first only 140000 to be pay and now 8000 extra every month. Fake 5 international property like scotland listed in website, when you ask for property option, they deny by saying it's upcoming property. Fake property, no one will get the same There are 21 more facilities promises by company but after payment no such facilities exsist