SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A Warning About Loan Apps: My Struggle Battle with Loan Apps and My Desperate Appeal
DATE: 2023-09-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16df4h9/a_warning_about_loan_apps_my_struggle_battle_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

hello this is my first post on reddit

I come from a lower middle class background, raised in a poor farming family from village. Currently, I'm in my 3rd semester at a private university in the city far from home, to pay my fees and accommodation expenses. To make ends meet, I took up online freelancing work, as my parents couldn't afford my education.

it took a dark turn when, during my 2nd semester, I had to pay fees and found myself unable to save from my monthly earnings of 10k. Desperate, I turned to online loan apps and borrowed 30k to cover my fees. Initially, I managed to pay the EMIs, but life threw more challenges I had to take additional loans just to survive and eat.

These apps, are willing to lend more to those who pay on time, traped me in a cycle of debt. My total debt now stands at a 1.80 lakh rupees. There were time where I couldn't find work for months, increasing my problems.

I couldn't ask to my parents, as they believed I was earning and have money. They had their own financial struggles, and I didn't want to burden them further. even i gave my mom 500-1k sometimes in needs.

Finally, after a year, I secured a well-paying job as a website developer with a salary of 20k. I initially thought I could save myself out of this trap, but i quickly realised that my income is insufficient.

Now, my loans are overdue, and I face relentless harassment from debt collectors. They are evn threatening my family and friends drom my contact list, tarnishing my reputation. I'm caught in a downward spiral, got into depression and multiple suicidal thoughts everyday.

My parents are still unaware of the of my situation, as I've managed to prove calls from loan agents by claiming they were scams. My friends have distanced themselves from me, suspecting that I provided their numbers as references ofcourse i didn't they are calling randomly from my contact list they took from phone.

I've had to avoid going to college as my reputation has suffered greatly due to the loan agents' harassment, even involving classmates and girls.

I don't know what to do. Rent is overdue, and even my landlord is growing impatient. My only purpose in sharing this is to tell you not to fall into this loan app trap, regardless of how tempting the offers may seem. They doubled my debt with penalties, and I fear for my future.

Please, if any of you have already fallen victim to these apps, reach out to me. I can guide you on which apps are trustworthy and which engage in harassment.

Thank you for reading, and I apologize if my English isn't perfect i used spell checker for my gramer. Additionally,

Disclaimer: I've been trapped in a vicious cycle of debt from online loan apps, leading to overwhelming stress and suicide thoughts everyday. I aware you to take a moment to read my story and consider the risks before using these apps. Your financial and emotional well-being is worth protecting. 

Thank you.