SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Snapdeal.com FRAUD and PATTERN OF SCAM WITH LAKHS OF USERS.
DATE: 2014-08-28
SCORE: 59
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2et64k/snapdealcom_fraud_and_pattern_of_scam_with_lakhs/

--- POST TEXT ---

SNAPDEAL Order Nbr. 2569404318 / Request #8484439

TV Not working on delivery and NO Refund/Exchange despite innumerable calls to customer service. Had paid money online &amp; since then there's been No response whatsover except a couple of robotic emails/ customer rep saying 'we are looking into this'. This is UNacceptable and the company must be punished for malpractises and utter incompetence. How can they take the customers money and then NOT deliver the right product and keep delaying on 'purpose', which I am 100% sure is the case looking at the attitude/robotic replies of customer reps. 

I am sure that...... 

1.SNAPDEAL does NOT have a working product available on short notice due to their network of SHADY/SUBstandard sellers and merchandisers who sell fake/used/defective/stolen products.

2. They take customer's money today and promise to deliver a product within say 2-5 days, and then keep delaying for months until customer is fed up of calling again and again and cancels and demands refund as per their immoral TrustPay guarantee. They then take another month to return the money which they have to legally anyways someday or the customer can actually sue. Now by this stage, they have kept your money for couple months and earned INTEREST on it; while you tear your hair apart.

I have shopped online extensively in the US in the past 7-8 years and now here in India in the past year. Its safe to say THIS HAS BEEN MY WORST ONLINE SHOPPING EXPERIENCE EVER. 

The Number of online complaints and pleas for help I see is something I havent seen before for a company that is supposedly One of India's recent times internet success stories. I think Its easy to ride the wave of increasing internet reach in India currently and quicky rise as a company, but very difficult to sustain it in the longer run with these kind of operations and unethical behavior. 

I refuse to believe that someone senior in the company hasnt seen or is not aware of the sheer number of complaints and the kind that would figure in peoples 'most horrible experience' lists. And if they have seen it, then why do these complaints keep getting more and more as each day passes. Arent corporations supposed to atleast make an effort to better themselves. What kind of business are you running? Is the company moto ONLY to earn money at customers expense. To hell with return customers huh? 

 I have been doing some online research specifically on snapdeal reviews and the kind of complaints compared to other sites such as amazon india, flipkart..and I see the difference. Its quite an eye opener. And kind of a scam. 

Dear Snapdeal - Yes, you are one of India's recent internet success stories. But you are also operating a scam. Making a quick buck and fooling customers. 
Remember the Internet is forever. Whatever's written on here is your history and legacy. And the lakhs (maybe millions) of rants and complaints and desperate pleas for help plastered all over the internet by cheated customers will come back to bite you someday when it really matters. You made a joke out of something as simple as online shopping.