This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of Code

of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short ' Cr.P.C .') to quash the

proceedings against the petitioner/accused in Crime No.101 of

2024 of Dichpally Police Station, Nizamabad District, registered

for the offences punishable under Sections 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 417 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short ' I.P.C .'). 2. Brief facts of the case are that respondent No.2/de facto

complainant lodged a complaint before the Police, Dichpally

Police Station against the petitioner stating that the mother of

respondent No.2 is the absolute owner and possessor of the

land admeasuring Ac.2.32 guntas in Sy.No.1433, situated at

Bardipur Shivar Village, Dichpally Mandal, Nizamabad District.

The said land was gifted to her daughters i.e., respondent No.2

and her siblings vide document No.8481 of 2020, dated

10.08.2020. The said property was divided into three shares

and their names were also mutated in revenue records. Later,

partition deed was executed on 04.04.2022. That being so,

respondent No.2 came to know through legal notice that the 2 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 petitioner was claiming rights over the scheduled land by way of

agreement of sale, dated 11.09.2016 executed by the mother of

respondent No.2. It is further stated by the petitioner that the

said land was sold to him for an amount of Rs.98.00 lakhs and

out of which Rs.30.00 lakhs and Rs.20.00 lakhs were paid vide

acknowledgment dated 11.09.2016 and 04.11.2016 respectively.

Later, a mutual understanding dated 04.11.2018 was executed

whereby Rs.15.00 lakhs was received and extension of time was

provided for payment of remaining Rs.33.00 lakhs. It is further

stated that after execution of partition deed, the petitioner filed

a suit vide O.S.No.14 of 2023 for specific performance against

respondent No.2 and her siblings. Respondent No.2 obtained

documents relied upon by the petitioner and sent the same to

M/s. Truth labs to verify the signatures of the mother of

respondent No.2, along with a specimen signature. The said lab

reports revealed that the documents were forged and

fraudulently created. Basing on the said complaint the Police

registered a case in Crime No. 101 of 2024. Hence, the present

criminal petition to quash the proceedings. 3. Heard Sri T. Anirudh Reddy, learned counsel appearing

on behalf of the petitioner as well as Sri G. Tarun Reddy,

learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No.2. 3 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

petitioner is innocent and the allegations leveled against him are

vague. He further submitted that the case is completely civil in

nature as the petitioner already filed a civil suit against

respondent No.2 and her siblings and the same is pending

before the District and Sessions Judge, Nizamabad. Learned

counsel further submitted that as per the charge sheet, the

petitioner forged and fabricated the signatures of mother of

respondent No.2, however, respondent No.2 failed to

acknowledge the fact that the signatures of her father and other

witnesses are also present in the documents and they were not

sent to the Truth labs for testing. In fact, the report was

obtained based on the photocopy of the document, as the

original document has been filed before the Court and the same

is not admissible. Hence, prayed the Court to quash the

proceedings against the petitioner. 5. In support of his submission, learned counsel for the

petitioner relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Kunti and Another vs. State of Uttar Pradesh 1, wherein in

paragraph No.12, it is held as follows: 1 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner further relied on the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paramjeet Batra vs.

State of Uttarakhand 2, wherein in paragraph No.12 it is held

as follows: 7. Learned counsel further relied on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh Kumar and Another vs.

State of Karnataka 3, wherein in paragraph No.7 it is held as

follows: 8. Learned counsel further relied on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Hira Lal Hari Lal vs Bhagwati vs.

CBI, New Delhi, wherein in paragraph No.40 it is held as

follows: 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for respondent No.2

filed counter denying the averments made in the petition stating

that mother of respondent No.2 gifted the subject land to her

daughters i.e., respondent No.2 and her siblings. It is further

stated that the mother of respondent No.2 never executed any

agreement of sale in favour of the petitioner. The report, in

relation to the signatures, issued by M/s Truth Labs clearly 6 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 revealed that the petitioner committed acts of forgery and

cheating, as such, prayed the Court to dismiss the petition. 10. In support of his contention, learned counsel for

respondent No.2 relied on the judgment of this Court in State

of Madhya Pradesh vs. Surendra Kori 4, wherein in paragraph

No.14, it is held as follows: 11. Learned counsel further relied on the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Priti Saraf vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),

wherein in paragraph Nos.30 and 31, it is held as follows: 12. Having regard to the rival submissions made by both the

learned counsel and having gone through the material available

on record, it appears that the case is civil in nature. The main

contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that

mother of respondent No.2 executed agreement of sale in the

year, 2016 and the partition done by respondent No.2 was in 8 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 the year, 2022. The police cannot register the case basing on

the forensic analysis issued by M/s. Truth labs as the report

was basing on the Photostat copy but not on the original

document. When the suit is for specific performance, the

original documents are before the Civil Court, and they have to

file an application before the Civil Court for sending the same to

the Government lab along with the contemporary signatures. 13. In view of the law laid down in Bheri Nageswara Rao vs.

Mavuri Veerabhadra Rao 5, this Court has categorically held

that the comparison of disputed siguatures on the Photostat

copy with the original signature of the then Tahsildar in D.K

Register is erroneous. If really, there is any doubt about the

signature, the second respondent ought to have called upon the

petitioner to produce the original patta for limited purpose of

comparision of disputed signature of the Tahsildar on the patta

with the signature available in the D.K Register. Instead of

resorting to such procedure, the second respondent himself has

gone to the extent of comparing the signature of the Tahsildar

appearing on the Photostat copy with the signature in D.K.

Register without any sanction of law. 5 2006 (4) ALD 295 9 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 14. In the present case, the document sent to the M/s. Truth

lab is Photostat copy. At this stage, the Police cannot conclude

on the report of the said Lab, which is given basing on the

Photostat copy. Further contention of learned counsel for the

petitioner is that when there is a civil suit pending before the

trial Court, criminal proceedings cannot be initiated, whereas,

the contention of respondent No.2 is that the mother of

respondent No.2 never executed agreement of sale in favour of

the petitioner and when she came to know that the said land

was sold in favour of petitioner, she sent the signatures to M/s.

Truth lab and the report reveals that the signatures are forged

and fabricated, as such, she filed a criminal case against the

petitioner. However, based on the forensic analysis, the

Investigating agency cannot conclude that documents are

forged. Further, the investigation is at initial stage and without

going into the merits of the case, prima facie, the alleged forgery

is basing on the FSL report by comparing Photostat copy is not

in accordance with law. 15. Accordingly, the criminal petition is disposed of directing

the Investigating Officer to follow the procedure laid down under Section 41-A Cr.P.C. and also the guidelines formulated by the 10 SKS,J Crl.P.No.3882 of 2024 Hon'ble Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar 6

scrupulously. However, the petitioner shall co-operate with the

Investigating Officer as and when required by furnishing

information and documents as sought by him in concluding the

investigation. The petitioner/accused shall file all the

documents which he ought to file to prove that it do not come

under the criminal offences and the Investigating Officer shall

consider the same before filing appropriate report before the

Magistrate. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall also

stand closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date: 23.04.2024
SAI 6 (2014) 8 SCC 273