SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My parents don't understand me. (Long Post)
DATE: 2020-04-28
SCORE: 32
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/g9hx0a/my_parents_dont_understand_me_long_post/

--- POST TEXT ---

What I am about to share has been very unbearable for me. Every party involved has made many mistakes. Everything is just going very awful for me.

My bio: I am 25, Male. I have a Bachelors degree in Arts, a 2 year diploma course in marketing. I attempted film school at a very expensive and far away place from home, but dropped out in the middle because of my out of control depression. I am shy, highly introverted, socially awkward sometimes. I come from a well off family although we don’t like it since we don’t flaunt wealth, but people who know us, know us. I am the only child in the family living with my parents.

My life has been spiraling out of control since as early as High school. Things were actually good compared to my current situation. But I’d say two things were most unbearable which for the first time lead me to contemplate suicide and I broke down into proper depression for the very first time. I had a box cutter and sat quietly in my room for a day or two until my mom came and started crying, trying to set my head straight and talk to me. My issues were this girl I was infatuated with at sixteen and my father. 

My father has constantly been a source of drama, conflict and unhappiness for many years for my mom and me. Things were all good, he was a normal person, we all were doing pretty well in life. But around one particular point in time he really snapped. He went from a good person to a complete asshole, jerk, creep, piece of shit person. Around the age of eleven or twelve is when it started and got gradually worse over the years. We blamed his company of lowlife friends for his behavioral change. He was a Chief Engineer in the merchant navy. Roamed the world, made awesome amounts of money. But his local friend circle included peons, laborers and basically uneducated sometimes unemployed losers. How was this even possible? Because my dad himself rose up from a poor background and he was the only one in a family of thirteen kids who made it. But with his success he was still the same old person, same conservative and backward views. He would spend 10,000 every weekend for more than a decade just partying with his scum friends. Friends whom he would gift/ lend thousands or lakhs and pretty much never got paid back. When my mother would ask about it he’d just reply, “*Shut up, you don’t know what you are talking about”.* 

He drank lots too. And sometimes came home stumbling hard. We had to hold him up straight a few times. On days where he could manage which was almost most of the time, he would sit down for dinner after returning from his evening meet with his friends, and really start boasting away. In his drunk tone he would be screaming and talking really loud at night. The locality is very quite so everybody could hear his drunken talk next door and beyond. “*I am king of the world. I am king of CITY NAME”.* 

To give you an idea of how drunk he would be at the dinner table, there was this one time when one of our dog took a watery stinky shit right under the glass dinner table right where dad would sit. He was not bothered, he just took his plate, sat down and started eating normally with a puddle of dog shit right under him. The man generally has no sense of disgust really. He sips his coffee comfortably right where the dogs used to shit out in a balcony. He’s still a heavy smoker.

He would spend lots of money buying drinks for his friends and one day mom just told it to his face, that he BUYS his friends. Yes, there were frequent fights at night between mom and dad during dinner because dad would not shut up. Mom and me started sitting separately from him during dinner, leaving the large table to him. But he would fight with her from across the room. All this fighting and toxicity for few years really got me. Besides all of this, dad has been generally creepy where he invades our privacy far too often. So now I keep things on lock and key where I can and set passwords on devices that I can. He has totally lost me and I have no tolerance for that jackass of a person.

Mom is a highly accomplished retired school teacher who totally regrets marrying my dad in the long run but rationalizes her decision by saying, “*I would not have gotten you, my son. And the money.”*She confessed to me that she married him only for the money. She was not very proud when she revealed this. My mom and I agree on one thing, that she spoiled my silly bringing me up. Bought me all the toys and games any kid could want. I guess in her mind and in retrospect things were not simple despite all our relatives hinting that she is spoiling me. See, I grew up in a rural area. It is more developed now, but back then the only local folks I interacted with were slum kids and the kids over at school during classes and recess. I spent a lot of time with the slum kids. Yes there were awkward situations at times with the slum kids comparing my status, etc. But I enjoyed a lot playing with them. Sadly I don’t have a single friend from that phase of my life right now. There was this one fellow, but he now lives on the other side of the village and we don’t really message or speak despite having a casual, chill relation between us. His mother used to be one of the house helps along with his grand mother.

So back to my original point of it being a rural area… my mom eventually started buying things for me, on my demand of course. As I was nearing adolescence I spent less time with slum friends and started staying indoors more playing video games. My dad for the most part always shouted at my mom for spoiling me with toys and gifts all the time. She simply remarked, “*He is my son and I will give him all that I never had.”* I reflect on this particular remark and I will get to it in a moment.

At the age of 12 my life changed for good. November of 2006 is when I got my first ever Playstation. I was hooked to it and spent way more time indoors just playing. In a locality where it was no more appropriate for me to mingle with slum kids and no real neighbors to hang out with, the game console was my sole time pass and friend. It stayed like that for years to come. In fact it is still like that. So this right here was an opportunity for me to demand expensive game consoles, games and toy, etc. I mean, what else was I going to do in my spare time? I was not allowed to pursue sports, I was not allowed to pursue martial arts because I was perceived as too violet by my mom at age ten. And I was not aware of other things that I could have done. It was and still is a boring town. My mom especially never approved of the normal stuff like I mentioned, but she was always down to spend on my gaming one way or another. I still don’t understand why she is that way. I guess she always wanted me near her.

Coming back to the point,“*He is my son and I will give him all that I never had.”* Now she probably mentioned this to me a couple of times as well. She would have the brightest and most satisfied smile whenever she saw me open a new gift, or enjoy some good food from a restaurant. The material privileges bought me only temporary happiness and joy. My mom thought these are what make me happy in the long run. I was a kid and for many years did not realize this is not how life works. As adulthood came around I found myself chasing material things but had realized by then that the joy they bring is kind of hollow, meaningless and short lived. Friendships, relationships and memories are what really matter. 

Right now I have a strained relationship with my mother. We were out one day few years back, I was driving her back from someplace. She kind of broke into tears while I was driving her. It was awkward. I guess I was in college or maybe college had ended and I was still home, jobless. 

So she starts, “*Son, I have failed you haven’t it?”.* It was quite a random thing for her to say I felt. I did not react to it really, I guess in my head I concurred and hated her, but was quiet and expressed nothing. Dad had been on her back for quite a while and was constantly blaming my failures on her. *“He’s not getting a job. By the time he is 25 nobody will want to give him a job. Do something! Call his cousin and get him to work with him. He is spoiling his life! You are spoiling his life!”.* Those are some of the things dad would usually start his hour long rants every night at the dinner table.

To feed my own rationalization I read up articles about traits of toxic parents/ mothers. One thing stuck out.

“*A parent who endlessly, unquestioningly, beyond all criticism, rewards, gifts and pampers their child only to derive satisfaction and joy, claiming they did not have any of these luxuries themselves in childhood are in fact toxic”.* So I was basically raised a spoiled brat. (My mom has labeled me one on numerous occasions). So that covers my childhood related issues with my mom. The adulthood problems are much different, inconspicuous, and insane.

I remember, in 6th or 7th std for the first time ever, I had failed in a math exam. From then on I failed in many maths exams until the end of high school. The first time was too much and I think my dad had cracked down hard on me for failing. Riding the turbulent emotions on the eve of the result I attempted to eat down some powdered rat poison which was casually lying around in the hall of our house. My mom was engrossed in her TV. She probably noticed me during the commercial break and mentioned that, *“You can’t die from consuming rat poison.”* She meant it with a shocking degree of indifference. I guess we also had an argument or I got scolded that evening before my first ever attempt on suicide which went unnoticed. I was eleven or twelve. All I got was a splitting headache that evening. As teenage came around I grew more and more apprehensive about talking to my parents about what I felt and thought in life as the years went on. As an adult I feel it would almost never be worth the while. I would be constantly arguing, fighting or even having to manipulate them to do the right things. The level of negligence and ignorance is shocking. It’s several years worth of frustrations and disappointments. I really do need therapy. Stories I mention from hereon will shed light.

So Junior college ends and for the first time I put my frustrations on the table for my parents to heed. At eighteen years old I felt I was not allowed a lot of times to explore extracurricular options growing up. The typical “*Get good marks. That’s all.”* Was forced upon me like many other kids. As a child I did not have much sense of how it would affect me later on. All I understood at eighteen was that since I never tried and failed at new things outside of schooling I was a) Dull and boring b) Clueless on what I want.

All I ever did up to that point in life was go to school, play video games, play with my pets, hangout with school friends once in a blue moon.

In the second year of college I wanted to join a local gym. My mother was against it as usual. By now I figured out that besides college work I did not have much to show for. I did not have any interesting certificates for sports or any activity so to speak of. I believed working out would give me a sense of fulfillment and accomplishment which I have always lacked. Plus, the results would be visible for everyone to see. However, getting the membership was a challenge as my mother would not pay for it. The negotiations went on for a few short days. It was a sunny summer afternoon in the month of May if I remember. We were at the bank she used to frequent. She wanted me to sign some documents or form for the transfer of a significant amount of money. I refused and demanded my gym membership be ready by today or I am not signing anything. She was flustered and pissed. She gave in, I got my membership and over the next four months I worked with dedication, took lots of pain and lost Ten Kilos of weight. There was no simple way to get the membership, she would not approve of and permit me working a menial job at McDonalds or anything similar.

This lasted for about eight or nine months. As the college semester came to an end academics started to pick up pace and I had more to handle. Also, I was doing a stupid course which was ultimately quite useless. So I was going through a crunch. Gym had to be sacrificed. But the real reason I sacrificed gym was because my mother would drag me and nag me to go with her on errands far too often right before my gym hours began. Go to the bank and withdraw money all the time, because she refused to use a debit card on the ATM machine because in her own words, *“I am old fashioned and I don’t know to use these sort of things.”* So much later, like a fool I realized that what could have taken three minutes always took twenty minutes or more because of the ques. Go shopping with her for rations. I mean honestly I was very generous with my time though I was sacrificing it with frustration. On many occasions I retorted her to get herself her own driver again to drive her around. She would try and reason that she could not afford it and if I won’t help then who would help her? I sacrificed so much of my time and opportunities for those years running around for her. I was fed up. And then to hear how ungrateful and selfish I was. Fuck that.

To be honest she could have managed herself, get a rickshaw or hire the old driver for a day. We had a dog with severe Tartar problem, it would cost a mere 4000 to fix, I had the money come and go from my hands many times, but my parents would not allow me to take to the dog to the vet. Negligence that cannot be explained 

I was weak after the recent loss of a loved on. When I was hospitalized for my second attempt on life this was one of the issues I wanted resolved. Stop depending on me so much, let me live my life. Quite frankly I wanted to die because my dad was forcing me to work a job I never wanted to do and I had basically given up on career and life kind of because I was constantly being not allowed to do what I want. I was sick of all the fighting and just gave up. After few years of being home I joined a new course, but dropped out halfway because I was far too depressed. I could not even sit down and finish the assignment, an assignment which was nigh ready to be submitted. I don’t know what force came over me. But I simply could not get myself to finish it and do the right thing. Then I stayed home for another year utterly crushed, insecure and depressed. I did think of reaching out to my parents but I knew it would not work. For recently I was even diagnosed with eight of nine Borderline personality disorder traits after my third attempt on life. When mom approached dad to explain about my disorder he got highly irritated and said enough is enough. “*If you have any problems son just come to me. Papa is the best, he is better than any doctor. Doctors are just businessmen.”* he bitches around some more and then says, *“Just take your medication and if you feel uncomfortable again just go and see a doctor. Simple, finish.”* So yeah, this senile jackass is whom I am dependent on financially and my mom is no better at reasoning. My mental state is what scares me to get a job, I am never sure how I will react to people and situations as I tend to overreact and there is just a lot of instability I experience on a daily basis. I am acutely horrified and helpless at the state of my life. I have no idea what it is like to be independent financially, although I strongly desire to be. My life is in the hands of these incapable folks and I mentally exhausted and truly sick. I have close to no friends right now. My relatives are highly busy and have not kept in contact with some of them. I am truly alone. Thought of suicide always lingers on my mind. I casually asked my mom if she will get me married and her reply was, *“No, what if the kids turn out mentally ill like you.”* I didn’t appreciate that remark even if it were a joke. She also asks me if I am faking it all, like wtf, how do I even answer that? There is a lot to this story and I have put out the things that bother me on a daily basis as best I could. Thank you for reading till the end.