[1] Heard. On bare reading of the complaint it appears that complainant is a
Company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act 1956 having
business all over India. In the first para itself it is averred that the company is
in the business of selling mobile handset and accessories through e-commerce
and retail outlet across India since last 10 years having 500 plus mobile stores
all over. It is next averred in the complaint that complainant has practiced to
receive and issue payments under financial obligations and therefore hold
current account with the opponent Punjab National Bank at Nariman Point,
Mumbai. Complainant Company also averred that systematic fraud is
committed in the bank account of the complainant. It is further averred in para
5 of the complaint that complainant lodged criminal complaint under sections
420 , 465 , 467 , 468 and 471 I.P.C. against unknown persons FIR No.D9 of
2014 at Cuff Purade police station. [2] The complainant, it appears by innovative way of drafting is trying to
bring his complaint within the jurisdiction of consumer Fora. This is strongly
objected by Ld.Advocate for the opponent as according to him the legal
position is settled that company having business of several outlets in India for
resale of their goods and holding current account for commercial purposes
cannot come within the definition of the term 'consumer' as understood within section 2(1)(d) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Having perused
averments in the complaint itself it must be stated that the current account
opened by the complainant company is in respect of business to sale mobile
phones through more than 500 mobile stores in India, as retail outlets. It is
under these circumstances and furthermore since criminal proceeding is
already lodged against opponent alleging systematic fraud we leave the
complainant to avail of remedy in competent Civil Court and / or Criminal
Court since criminal proceeding is pending because Consumer Fora is not
expected to deal with the complicated questions raised of systematic fraud,
forgery etc. as alleged in the criminal complaint pending before the Criminal
Court for decision and which cannot be decided by the Consumer Fora.
Furthermore the averments itself in the complaint indicated that the
complainant company is not 'consumer' within the meaning of section 2(1)(d) of the CPA, 1986. Therefore, complaint is rejected. However, the proceedings
be returned to the complainant after retaining Photostat copy thereof for the
sake of record. No order as to cost. Certified copy of this order be furnished to the parties free of cost. Pronounced on 2 nd February, 2018
 [JUSTICE A.P.BHANGALE]
 PRESIDENT

 [Dr.S.K.KAKADE]
 MEMBER
rsc