BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE:- 2. At the time of inspection, one Mr. Vijay and accused
Prem @ Mukesh were present at site, who refused to accept the
inspection report. The person Vijay was present at the time of
inspection informed the raiding team that Hafijul Abjul @ was also
the user alongwith Prem @ Mukesh of the said premises. Total load
of 35.100 KW was found connected at site for e-rickshaws charging.
Inspection report Ex. PW2/2 was prepared at site. Thereafter, illegal FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 2 of 22 wires which were being used for theft was removed and seized, vide
seizure memo, vide Ex. PW-2/1. Site plan was also prepared at site,
which is Ex. PW2/3. The photographer Sh. Sanjay had taken
photographs Ex. PW9/A-1 to Ex. PW9/A-37 at the time of inspection
and conducted the videography. The Compact Disc (hereinafter
referred to as 'CD') of the photographs and videography is Ex.
PW9/A and the certificate under Section 65-B of Indian Evidence
Act, is Ex. PW9/B. Thereafter, the police complaint was made, and
accordingly the present First Information Report (hereinafter
referred to as 'FIR') was got registered under Section 135 of the
Electricity Act (hereinafter referred to as '2003, Act') in the Police
Station Jahangir Puri (hereinafter referred to as 'PS'). CHARGE AGAINST THE ACCUSED PERSONS:- 3. After completion of investigation, the charge sheet under Section 135 / 151 of Electricity Act was filed against the accused
persona namely Prem @ Mukesh and Haifzul @ Abjul. The charge
under Section 135 of 2003, Act was framed against both the accused
persons. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE:- 4. PW-1 Sh. Ram Narayan/complainant, who deposed
that he had given complaint for lodging FIR u/s. 135 of Electricity
Act against the accused persons in PS Jahangir Puri, which was FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 3 of 22 received there on 13.11.2015. The said complaint is Ex. PW1/A. He
had given the compliant alongwith inspection report, seizure memo,
36 photographs and CD. He further deposed that the accused persons
were indulging in theft of electricity by direct tapping from
distribution box at the time of inspection of charging 46 e-rickshaws
at MCD toilet complex in front of D-1250, Jahangir Pur, Delhi. The
connected load was found to be 35.100 KW. He further deposed that
the inspection was conducted by the team including Sh. S.K. Gupta,
Sh. Saurabh Jain, Sh. Ravi Kishan & Sh. Akshey Yadav. The
photographs were taken by Sh. Sanjay. At the time of inspection 22
chargers and illegal cables were seized from the spot. 5. PW-2 Sh. Ravi Kishan (Sr. Manager), who deposed
that on 21.10.2025, he was working in Enforcement Department of
the complainant company. On that day, at about 6.00 AM, he
alongwith Delhi Police, ESF, Zonal Staff and raiding team members
namely Sh. Akshay Yadav, the then Assistant Manager, Mr. Saurabh
Jain, the then Assist. Officer, Mr. Rocky Singh, Assistant Officer, Sh.
Sushil Kumar Gupta, the then Senior Manager and photographer Mr.
Sanjay from M/s. Adcom Media had inspected the premises. At the
time of inspection the direct tapping form LV distribution box on
pole through illegal wires i.e. two core black colour PVC cables of
aluminum approximately 15 meters in length. They also seized two
core service cables having length of 9 meters, two extension boards
of 16 ampere rating and 22 e-rickshaws chargers. The said material FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 4 of 22 was seized, vide memo Ex . PW2/A. He further deposed that people
gathered at site and on inquiry one person namely Vijay informed
them that e-rickshaws charging was done by accused Abjul and Prem.
He further deposed that they had also taken the photographs of Vijay
and his ID proof. At the time of inspection, accused Prem was also
present at site. They had also taken his photograph. At the time of
inspection, 46 e-rickshaws were charged by committing theft and
connected load was found to be 35.100 KW. He further deposed that
they prepared the inspection report at the site and the same is Ex.
PW2/2. They tried to serve the inspection report and seizure memo at
site, but the accused Prem refused to sign and accept the same and
did not allow them to paste the same. At the time of inspection, 36
photographs were taken and the same are Ex. PW2/A-1 to Ex.
PW2/A-36. The photograph Ex. PW2/A-12 shows the presence of
Vijay at site and photographs Ex. PW2/A-13 to Ex. PW1/A-16 show
the ID proof of Vijay. Photograph Ex. PW2/A-18 shows the presence
of accused Prem. They had also taken the photographs of the
connected load, seized material and the mob. The said photographs
also depicts that direct theft of election was committed at site. The
site plan papered at the time of inspection, which is ex. PW2/3. IO
has also recorded his statement in this regard. 6. PW-3 Constable Gautam, who deposed that on
06.09.2018, he had gone with HC Vinod to the premises as
information was received from informer that the accused Prem @ FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 5 of 22 Mukesh was present there. On reaching there, HC Vinod service
notice u/s. 41-A Cr.P.C. upon the accused. On the same day, the
accused had joined the investigation. Notice u/s. 41-A Cr.P.C. is Ex.
PW3/A. 7. PW-4 Sh. Akshey Yadav (Manager), who deposed that
on the same lines as deposed by PW-2 Sh. Ravi Kishan. 8. PW-5 Sh. Sushil Kumar (AGM), who had deposed that
on 21.10.2015, he was posted as Senior Manager in the Corporate
Enforcement Group of the complainant company. On that day, he
alongwith inspecting team members namely Sh. Saurabh Jain, the
then Assistant Officer, Sh. Ravi Kishan, the then Officer, Sh. Rocky
Singh, the then Assistant Officer, Sh. Akshay Yadav, the then
Assistant Manager alongwith photographer Sh. Sanjay of M/s.
Adcom Media and Zonal staff and Delhi Police officials had
inspected the premises. He further deposed that at the time of
inspection, direct theft of electricity was being committed from
TPDDL LV Distribution box pole no. HT505-26-26/28 through
illegal wires for e-Rickshaws charging. At the time of inspection load
of 35.100 KW was found connected. At the time of inspection one
person namely Vijay was present at the site. The accused Prem was
also found present at site. He further deposed that Vijay, who was
present at the site also stated that the accused Abjul @ Hafijul is also
the user of the electricity. No meter was found installed at the
inspected site. He further deposed that photographer Sanjay from FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 6 of 22 Adcom Media had taken the photographs at the time of inspection,
which are Ex. PW2/A-1 to Ex. PW2/A-36. The photographer had
also made the videos at the time of inspection. The photographs of
connected load, accused Prem, Vijay who was present at the site were
taken by the photographer. The photographer had also taken the
photographs showing the mode of theft of electricity. He further
deposed that they seized the illegal wires and 22 e-rickshaws
chargers from the site, vide seizure memo Ex. PW2/1.They also
prepared the inspection report at the site Ex. PW2/2. The inspection
report and the seizure memo were tried to be served upon the accused
Prem and Vijay, but they refused to sign and accept the same and did
not allow them to paste the same at the inspected site. Site plan was
prepared as the time of inspection, which is Ex. PW2/3. 9. PW-6 Constable Prabhjot Singh, who deposed that on
27.09.2018, he was posted at PS: Jahangir Puri. On that day, he had
joined the investigation with IO/HC Vinod Kumar. During
investigation, he alongwith the IO and secret informer went to CD
Park jhuggies, where accused Hafijul was found present. He was
apprehended by the IO with his assistance and upon interrogation by
IO, accused Hafijul admitted his guilt. IO served him a notice u/s.
160 Cr.P.C and they returned to PS. After some time, the accused
Hafizul came to PS with one of his friend Mohd. Riyasat. He joined
the investigation with the IO and IO recorded his disclosure
statement. A notice u/s. 41-A Cr.P.C. was served upon the accused FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 7 of 22 and thereafter, he was discharged from the investigation. The
interrogation of accused Hafijul is Ex. PW6/A. 10. PW-7 ASI Ram Niwas, who had proved on record the
copy of FIR, which is Ex. PW7/A, endorsement on the complaint,
which is Ex. PW7/B and certificate u/s. 65-B of Evidence Act, which
is Ex. PW7/C. 11. PW-8 ASI Vinod Kumar, who deposed that on
27.03.2018, the investigation of the case was marked to him by SHO
PS: Jahangir Puri. On the secret information received on 06.09.2018,
he alongwith Constable Gautam had gone to the Public Toilet, D-
Block, Jahangir Puri, where the accused Prem @ Mukesh met them
at site, who stated that he is the resident of Jhuggi No. 38-B, CD
Park, Jahangir Puri, Delhi. Thereafter, he served a notice u/s. 41-A Cr.P.C. to the accused Prem, which is Ex. PW3/A. He further
deposed that on 27.09.2018, he alongwith Constable Prabhjot had
gone to Jhuggi at CD Block, Jahangir Puri, where the accused Hafijul
met them, who stated that he is the resident of Jhuggi No. 38B/221-
222, CD Park, Jahangir Puri, Delhi. Thereafter, he served a notice u/s. 41-A Cr.P.C. to the accused Hafijul, which is Ex. PW8/A. On
receipt of the notice, the accused persons joined the investigation. He
collected the ID proofs of the accused persons and the same are
marked A and B, respectively. Thereafter, he prepared the charge
sheet and bound down the accused persons for their appearance
before the Court. 12. PW-9 Sh. Sanjay (Photographer), who deposed that on
21.10.2015, he alongwith Sh. Sunil Kr. Gupta, Sh. Rocky and Sh.
Ravi Kishan visited the premises, where they found that direct theft
of electricity was committed for illegal charging of e-rickshaws. At
the instance of the raiding team member, he took 37 photographs and
videography was also done. The said photographs are Ex. PW9/A-1
to Ex. PW9/A-37. CD was also prepared by him, which is Ex.
PW9/A. He has also issued certificate under Section 65-BH of The
Indian Evidence Act, which is Ex. PW9/B.
STATEMENT OF ACCUSED PERSONS UNDER SECTION 313 Cr.P.C :- DEFENCE EVIDENCE:- Accused Prem was called from his house and his photographs were
taken at the site in question. I know accused Prem being his neighbor
and he is running the grocery shop. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE:- 19. PW-2 Sh. Ravi Kishan (Senior Officer), PW-4 Sh.
Akshay Yadav (Manager) and PW-5 Sh. Sushil Kumar Gupta (AGM)
are the most material witnesses in this case as they were the
member of the inspection team of the complainant company. The
said witnesses have corroborated the allegations mentioned in the
complaint Ex. PW1/A and deposed that during inspection accused
persons were found indulged in direct theft of electricity by direct
tapping from LV distribution box on pole through illegal wires i.e.
two core black colour PVC cables of aluminum approximately 15
meters in length. The said witnesses also deposed that two core
service cables having length of 9 meters, two extension boards of 16
ampere rating and 22 e-rickshaws chargers, vide memo Ex. PW2/1.
The said witnesses deposed that inspection report, site sketch and FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 13 of 22 seizure memo of illegal wires were prepared at the spot and they
have proved on record the inspection report as Ex. PW2/2, site plan
as Ex.PW2/3 and seizure memo as Ex. PW2/1. Accused persons
have not disputed the preparation of the said documents and the
inspection report. The said witnesses were cross-examined on behalf
of accused persons, but nothing fruitful came out in favour of the
accused persons. 20. PW-9 Sh. Sanjay (photographer) supported the version
of PW-2, PW-4 and PW-5 and deposed that on 21.10.2015, an
inspection was carried out at the premises of the accused persons
and on the instruction of inspection team he took 37 photographs
at the time of inspection and conducted the videography. The said 37
photographs are Ex. PW9/A1 to Ex. PW9/A-37. The CD of the
photographs and the videography is Ex. PW9/A. He had issued the
certificate under Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act and the
same is Ex. PW9/B. Accused persons have also not disputed the
authenticity of said video recording of inspection proceedings
contained in the said CD, which was brought on record. 21. Accused persons have not disputed that there was no
electricity meter in the premises. Accused persons have also not
disputed the identity of the seized wires (Ex. P-1 and Ex. P-2) and
two extension boards (Ex. P-3) during evidence of PW-2, PW-4 and
PW-5. Accused persons has also not disputed the inspection report
Ex. PW2/2. 22. It is clear from the deposition of PW-2, PW-4, PW-5
and PW-9 that an inspection was carried out at the premises on
2 1 .10.2015 by the inspecting team members/officials of
complainant company. T he electricity supply system of the
complainant company was tampered by direct tapping from LV
distribution box on pole through illegal wires, which are Ex. P-2.
The accused persons have not disputed the e-rickshaws were being
charged illegally at the time of inspection. Moreover, the presence of
two extension boards and 22 e-rickshaws charger have also not
disputed, which are Ex. P-3 and P-4. The entire inspection
proceedings were recorded by photographer/PW-9 Sh. Sanjay and
CD of the said inspection proceedings was brought on record as
Ex. PW9/A. P W - 1 , PW-2, PW-4, and PW-5 proved the relevant
documents i.e. complaint as Ex. PW1/A, inspection report as
Ex.PW2/2, seizure memo of illegal wires as Ex.PW2/1 and site plan
as Ex. PW2/3. The photographs Ex. PW-9/A-1 to Ex. PW-9/A-37,
depicts the manner in which the direct theft of electricity was being
committed at the premises. 23. The prosecution has been successful in proving that the
direct theft of electricity was found to be committed on the premises
at the time of inspection. It has also been proved on record that the
theft of electricity was being used to charge the e-rickshaws. Next
the prosecution was required to prove on record that accused Prem
@ Mukesh and Hafijul @ Abjul were responsible for the direct theft FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 15 of 22 of electricity. Identity of accused Prem @ Mukesh:- 24. The raiding team member(s), who have been examined
as PW-2, PW-4 and PW-5 has correctly identified the accused
persons in the Court at the time of examination in chief. The
relevant extract(s) are reproduced below for ready reference:- 25. The accused has taken a sole defence that no public
witness has been joined by the inspection team during the raid of
the premises. This plea of the accused does not carry much
weight because in the present case, accused was found indulged
in direct theft of electricity by tampering the electricity supply
system of the complainant company through illegal wires, which
was directly connected TPDDL LV Mains by illegal wires and these
facts have been well proved by PW-2, PW-4, and PW-5. In the case
titled as 'Sushil Sharma vs BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd. ' in Crl.
Appeal No.1060/10 decided on 22.12.2010, the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court has held that non-examination of independent/public witness
is no infirmity and the members of the inspection team who
deposed in the court, were having no enmity against the appellant
and their testimonies are trustworthy. In the present case also, FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 16 of 22 there is no material to show that the TPDDL officials were inimical
to the accused. Thus, non- joining of public witness is not fatal to
the prosecution case. 26. Moreover, Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as 'Punjab State Electricity Board & Ors vs Ashwani Kumar ,
2010 (7) SCC 569' has observed that inspection is a document
prepared in exercise of his official duty by the officers and once an
act is done in accordance with the presumption of authenticity rest
with the documents so prepared. The relevant extract of the same is
produced below for ready reference:- 27. Accused Prem @ Mukesh has examined two witnesses in
his defence as DW-1 and DW-2. It has been brought out in the cross
examination of both the witnesses that they were not present at the
time of taking photographs. They have also admitted that e-rickshaws FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 17 of 22 were being illegally charged from the TPDDL pole. The relevant
extract(s) of cross examination of DW-1 and DW-2 are produced
below for ready reference:- 28. Despite examination of the abovesaid witnesses, nothing
fruitful has came out in the defence of accused Prem @ Mukesh. If
the accused was not involved in direct theft of electricity or that he
was using the electricity through any legal means, then the easiest
way for the accused was to prove on record that he was using
electricity at the time of inspection. In this regard, this court is
supported by the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
reported as 'Mukesh Rastogi Vs. North Delhi Power Limited'
reported as 2007 (99) DRJ108. The observations made by Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi are reproduced as under:- 29. The accused Prem @ Mukesh had the opportunity to
bring on record the electricity bills to prove that at the time of
inspection the he was using electricity from his authorize connection,
however, he has failed to do so. It is pertinent to mention here that the
accused has not disputed his presence the time of inspection.
Therefore, this court has no hesitation to hold that the accused Prem
@ Mukesh has indulged in direct theft of electricity and the
prosecution has successfully proved that the accused has indulged in
direct theft of electricity. Identity of accused Hafijul @ Abjul:- 30. Admittedly, accused Hafijul was not present at the site on
the date and time of inspection. The heavy burden was on the FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 19 of 22 prosecution to connect the accused Hafijul with the theft of electricity.
Except the disclosure statement of the accused Hafijul, there is
nothing on record to connect the accused with the said offence. The
disclosure statement of accused is not admissible in the eyes of law.
The raiding team member, who have been examined as PW-2 and
PW-4 have admitted that the accused was not present at the time of
inspection. The relevant extract of cross examination of the said
witnesses are reproduced below for ready reference:- 31. The Investigation Officer has failed to examine the
owner of the e-rickshaw vehicle, who could have connect the
accused with the present offence. The non examination of
the owner of the e-rickshaws is fatal to the case of the
prosecution. 32. In case law reported as " Sadhu Singh Vs. State of
Punjab " 1997 (3) Crime 55 the Punjab & Haryana High Court had
observed as under:- 33. Here, reliance is also placed upon the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Anand Ramchandra
Chougule Vs Sidarai Laxman Chougala Crl . Appeal No. 1006 of
2010 held as under:- 34. The aforementioned omissions and lacunas
clearly shows that the prosecution has been unable to prove FIR No. 1028/2015, State Vs. Prem @ Mukesh & another Page 21 of 22 the alleged offence against the accused Hafijul @ Abjul
beyond reasonable doubt, whereby the accused has become
entitled to the benefit of doubt. CONCLUSION:- 35. In view of aforesaid discussions, it is held that the
prosecution has been unable to prove the offence against the accused
Hafijul @ Abjul. Accordingly, accused Hafijul @ Abjul stands
acquitted of the charge levelled against him. 36. However, prosecution has proved beyond reasonable
doubt that the accused Prem @ Mukesd has indulged in direct
theft of electricity which is punishable under section 135 of the
Electricity Act, 2003. Consequently, accused Prem @ Mukesh is
convicted under Section 135 of the Electricity Act, 2003. 37. Put up for determination of civil liability and order on
sentence with respect to the accused Prem @ Mukesh on 21.12.2023.