SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Congrats! We have hit a new low👏(Please read the whole post)
DATE: 2020-06-04
SCORE: 354
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gw66w1/congrats_we_have_hit_a_new_lowplease_read_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

(Disclaimer:This post is Super edgy and may even be a wild rant. But I fuckin' mean what I wrote down)

 I am talking about the unfortunate death of elephant in Kerala which has blown out of proportion.

 Sure,it was a heartbreaking news and shouldnt have happened. The news was spread like - ' The elephant was fed with the pineapple'. There is a possibility that these crackers were set up as baits for wildboars. You guys seriously dont know how frustrating the attack of wildboars are in those areas. It was a matter of life and death for the farmer. Either he has to see his entire crops being destroyed by wildboar or he has to kill it for saving his land. Its obvious that he may have chosen the latter one.
 The elephant may have accidentally ate the bait pineapple which caused its death. I am not saying this was what happened. I am just stating a possibility. A case which is very probable. The media who covered this event initially, used the very term 'fed' in its report without even considering the alternate scenario. 

The news of elephant's death became viral and recieved national attention. Celebrities,Politicians,Commoners mourned elephant's death in Social media platforms. But what disgusted me more than the animal's fate was how people generalized a whole state due to this. The whole Indian Internet Party has waged war against Kerala because of this incident. 

Some comments in Internet have mocked Kerala by calling it a 'primitive,undeveloped, barbaric ,blah blah'. I dont want to bring Kerala's achievements in to this arguement because I know this is not the right place. A whole state is shown as evil just because of one or two people. I clearly dont see any logic in that(Ya,i should slap myself for expecting logic from these people). Its like framing an entire family for the crime committed by one of them.

Since Kerala and to be particular Malappuram district is involved in this case, Right wingers have got a golden opportunity to throw their shit. Its obvious that Maneka Gandhi just wanted to play politics with her response on the incident. The fact that she mentioned 'Malappuram is the most dangerous place' boils my blood. Has she ever lived here to know how 'dangerous' this place is? I live in Malappuram and as per her party's useless stats, I am a minority. I wont say everything is perfect here,but atleast its not 'terrible' as she claims to be and anyone who lives here agrees with the fact that its one of the most peaceful places to live.

Trivia-- The farm where the elephant ate the pineapple was at Palakkad,Malappuram's nearby district. But right wingers and their opportunist brain changed the location to Malappuram,to fit their propaganda. 

The news that I saw in a channel- ' Lord Ganesha murdered in a state ruled by Red-Jihadis.'. WTFUCKKK?

BJP proved that they can communalise a global pandemic by their stand on Covid-19. Now they are pulling one of the most disgusting tricks and showing that they can communalise an animal's death too. Where are we going? The entire Social media is filled with hate comments on Kerala and Malayalis. Sanghi propaganda has created a tainted image for Kerala. The fact that they used the death of an animal to degrade an entire state was so unfair and illogical. The great Indian circus- the mob,the so called 'aatmanirbhar' Indians have now become 'seasonal animal lovers' and are shitting with their 'Hindu-muslim,blah blah blah' in the name of showing concern for the elephant. This is how doomed our future is..

Now some obvious things about Celebrities.. They were so vocal about BLM till yesterday. Thank god,now they have got an Elephant to show their 'support'. Without even doing any fact check,they have jumped into the bandwagon. There were some celebrity comments which were like "Kerala people deserve to get Corona and die. Flood happens there occasionally because they eat beef!" When the so called role models of a society are like this what else we should expect from commoners who dont even have a brain to think. I think the same celebrities were in hibernation when Protests,Riots,Police brutality, Mob lynching, Slaughtering people in name of beef, Students arrest etc happened in India or are they pretending these things havent happened here? I appreciate that you are concerned about BLM and Animals but atleast once...atleast once have the spine to question the atrocities here. A majority of Indians look at you like their role models. Why disappoint us from time to time? Either stay mum or dont even talk about anything. The fact that you choose to speak only on selective and safe topics,is so irritating and shows your hypocrisy.

Big cheers for all the atmanirbhar Indian... sorry-Bharatvasis who believes that they are upholding the parampara and sanskar of their country by sucking dung out of Mudiji and his party's dicks. They first proved that they are brainless by dancing to Mudiji's curfew drama. Now they have used an animal's death to spread hate and these mofos blindly followed their master's commands.

Usually we dont give a flying fuck about these bastards on Social media. But what happened yesterday was so disheartening. It would have been very helpful if you guys showed genuine concern on this death but all you did was show your third class mentality. Imagine if this issue gets international attention. Whole country will be mocked for this shitshow. 'Oh, why do we care about Westerners?' UP is the centre of the world for these clowns.Eat cowdung,preach (fake) Patriotism,dance to Mudiji's tunes, Suck his party's dick, Thump your Chest saying 'PKMKB,Bharat mata ki jai..',Make kids,propagate the same shit through them,die. The cycle repeats.

We often joke that the country is a developing one. Yes its developing. Its a developing shithole whose radius increases day by day. Its a huge pond of shit which people dont even care to clean up. Rather they would jump into that shit and hail BJP for giving them this Superpower facility!

Sorry for this edgy post. I was too shocked by knowing how low the country has gone down. It is no more the 'I am proud of my country' India I knew from my school books. It is not at all a ' Unity in diversity' country I thought to be. Its just beyond embarassment. FUCK THIS COUNTRY. FUCK ALL RELIGIONS.