Modi Entertainment Netwoek & Anr. Vs. W.S.G. Cricket PTE . 

Ltd. AIR 2003 SC 1177 2. Smt. Satya Vs. Sh. Teja Singh , AIR 1975 SC 105.

21 The reliance of Ld. Counsel on both of these judgments has been 

quite misplaced, in as much as, applying the principles laid­down in the said two 

judgments, it would be quite clear that there is no cause of action available to the 

plaintiff to seek the relief of anti­suit injunction in the present case.

22 In the first above cited case i.e. 'Modi Entertainment', Hon'ble 

Supreme Court has, at length, been pleased to elaborate on the aspect as to 

what is anti­suit injunction, and when it can be granted by a Court of natural 

jurisdiction. This judgment relates mainly to the cases of contract between the 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 9/32 parties, and in fact, it is not about a matrimonial litigation, and even otherwise, 

irrespective of that, the principles that have been laid­down for the exercise of 

discretion to grant an anti­suit injunction, are not applicable in the present case 

at all. It has been held therein that the Court must be satisfied on the following 

aspects:­ (a) the defendant, against whom injunction is Which the defendant 
sought, is amenable to the personal jurisdiction of of the present case is 
the court; not. (b) if the injunction is declined the ends of justice Plaintiff of the present 
will be defeated and injustice will be perpetuated; case has not been 
and able to make out any. (c) the principle of comity - respect for the court in Much required in the 
which the commencement or continuance of present case as this 
action/proceeding is sought to be restrained ­ must Court is only a parallel 
be borne in mind; Court at best. available, the Court in exercise of its discretion to in the present case, is 
grant anti­suit injunction will examine as to which is clearly at Georgia, 
the appropriate forum (forum conveniens) having US. 
regard to the convenience of the parties and may 
grant anti­suit injunction in regard to proceedings (Proceeding at Indian 
which are oppressive or vexatious or in a forum Courts would be 
non­conveniens; oppressive and 
 vexatious for the 
 defendant)
 

 (3) Where jurisdiction of a court is invoked 
on the basis of jurisdiction clause in a contract, the (No contract in the 
recitals therein in regard to exclusive or non­ present case)
exclusive jurisdiction of the court of choice of the 
parties are not determinative but are relevant 
factors and when a question arises as to the nature 
of jurisdiction agreed to between the parties the 
court has to decide the same on a true 
interpretation of the contract on the facts and in the 
circumstances of each case; CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 11/32 (4) a court of natural jurisdiction will not normally Not applicable as no 
grant anti­suit injunction against a defendant agreement)
before it where parties have agreed to submit to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of a court including a foreign 
court, a forum of their choice in regard to the 
commencement or continuance of proceedings in 
the court of choice, save in an exceptional case for 
good and sufficient reasons, with a view to prevent 
injustice in circumstances such as which permit a 
contracting party to be relieved of the burden of the 
contract; or since the date of the contract the 
circumstances or subsequent events have made it 
impossible for the party seeking injunction to 
prosecute the case in the court of choice because 
the essence of the jurisdiction of the court does not 
exist or because of a vis major or force majeure and 
the like; CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 12/32 (5) where parties have agreed, under a non­ (No such agreement)
exclusive jurisdiction clause, to approach a neutral 
foreign forum and be governed by the law 
applicable to it for the resolution of their disputes 
arising under the contract, ordinarily no anti­ suit 
injunction will be granted in regard to proceedings 
in such a forum conveniens and favoured forum as 
it shall be presumed that the parties have thought 
over their convenience and all other relevant 
factors before submitting to non­exclusive 
jurisdiction of the court of their choice which 
cannot be treated just an alternative forum; (6) a party to the contract containing jurisdiction (Not applicable - no 
clause cannot normally be prevented from such agreement)
approaching the court of choice of the parties as it 
would amount to aiding breach of the contract; yet 
when one of the parties to the jurisdiction clause 
approaches the court of choice in which exclusive 
or non­exclusive jurisdiction is created, the 
proceedings in that court cannot per se be treated 
as vexatious or oppressive nor can the court be 
said to be forum non­conveniens; and
 (7) the burden of establishing that the forum of (Not Applicable.
choice is a forum non­ conveniens or the 
proceedings therein are oppressive or vexatious 
would be on the party so contending to aver and 
prove the same. agreement between the parties to chose any one Court, and therefore, strictly 

speaking on the factual situation, the said judgment would not even be 

applicable. 24 However, if at all, on the contrary, what is clearly laid down herein 

is that discretion to grant of an anti­suit injunction, would be exercised very 

sparingly in rarest of the rare cases after seeing and weighing so many factors, 

all of which, would be the burden of the plaintiff, seeking the injunction, to 

establish; 25 In the present case, though the Criteria­A is met with, in as much 

as, the defendant would be amenable to the personal jurisdiction of the Delhi 

Courts, as well, but as regards the Criteria­B, it is mainly to be seen that if the 

injunction is declined, the ends of justice would or would not be defeated, and 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 14/32 there would not be any injustice perpetrated. 26 In this regard, it certainly cannot be held in this case at all that mere 

filing of a divorce petition by the wife before US Courts, where the parties 

admittedly last resided together, would be causing any kind of injustice to the 

plaintiff, in as much as, there is no bar to the plaintiff to appear and contest the 

petition in the US Courts. 27 On the contrary, he may take steps to file his own petition as well 

before US Courts, as he also, is admittedly staying at US, under a work Visa, 

and rather, it would be more convenient for him to approach the US Courts, and 

to get the two petitions consolidated to be tried and decided by one and the 

same Court, which would also do away with the apprehension of conflicting 

decision. 28 Even otherwise, where both the parties are desirous of a divorce, 

though, on their respective grounds and allegations, the only best possible 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 15/32 course would have been for the plaintiff to seek consolidation of the two 

petitions, instead of proceeding to file the civil suit for an anti­suit injunction.

29 Thirdly, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has also highlighted the 

principles of "comity" respect for the Court, in which, the commencement or 

continuance of action/proceeding must be borne in mind.

30 In this regard, this is precisely the objection raised by the Court as 

to how a Court of a parallel jurisdiction could be competent to even grant such 

an injunction. Normally, as per the provisions of the CPC , it is already the Court 

of higher jurisdiction or the Court having administrative control, which would be 

competent to transfer4 the suits, from one to the other Court, or, even to allow 

consolidation of two suits, and it is not as if one Court of an equal jurisdiction, 

would be competent to take a decision about the suit, pending before another 

Court of an equal jurisdiction, except in Section 10 CPC; which, however, would 

not apply in the matter of cross cases. not be maintainable even before the present Court.

32 As regards the criteria of convenience referred to as "Forum 

Conveniens", as well, having regard to the convenience of the parties, the wife in 

the present case i.e. the defendant, it would naturally not be convenient for the 

wife to come and seek a divorce in the Indian Courts, all the way from USA, 

whereas, on the other hand, it is not going to cause any hardship at all to the 

plaintiff herein, who is admittedly, still residing in USA on a work Visa, to seek 

the divorce in US Courts itself. 33 Some of the criteria laid down relate only to those cases, where 

parties by a contract have agreed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of a 

Court including a foreign Court, and therefore, is not applicable at all to the 

present case. Here it is not even the case of the plaintiff himself that there was 

any such agreement. non­conveniens or the proceedings therein are oppressive or vexatious would be 

on the party so contending to aver and prove the same, which he has failed to 

discharge, in as much as, plaintiff herein has not even been able to explain at all 

even to the repeated Court queries, as to what prejudice is going to be caused to 

him, if he, who is admittedly staying at US, goes and seeks a divorce in the same 

Court. 35 In any case, he has not been able to make out any cause of action 

whatsoever to seek an injunction against the defendant from filing the petition for 

divorce in Georgia Courts, at USA or from continuing the proceedings there.

36 As regards the reliance on the decision in the case of 'Smt. Satya 

Vs. Sh. Teja Singh ', as well, the same is also of no help to the plaintiff, and 

rather, it is once again absolutely, misconceived, in as much as, the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court therein was of the view in favour of not granting an anti­suit 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 18/32 injunction, rather than granting it, particularly in the matrimonial cases, and in 

fact, the said case was not even about the grant of injunction or otherwise, but it 

was about giving or not giving recognition to foreign decree of divorce, which 

was in question. 37 Firstly, this would not be applicable to the given situation, but even 

if the principles are applied, it would go against the case of the plaintiff, as it was 

held therein, that, if recognition is not granted, the unhappy marriage between 

the parties would be forced to limp, and further the repercussions would be, that, 

while they would be treated as divorced abroad, their bond of matrimony will 

remain unsnapped in India i.e. their country of domicile. Lordships have, 

however, made a distinction in that case, which was more in facts, where a 

husband had procured a decree of divorce by trickery at Nevada Court, in USA, 

portraying that as his State of Domicile. from an Indian Court of jurisdiction, would also be open to be recalled, as and 

when, the fact is brought to the notice of a Court.

39 Initially, the question as framed by the Hon'ble High Court (against 

whose Order, the appeal had been preferred by a Special Leave Petition before 

the Hon'ble Supreme Court), had framed the question, as under:­

40 "Whether a Hindu marriage solemnized within this country can be 

validly annulled by a decree of divorce granted by a foreign Court."

41 The Hon'ble Supreme Court was of the view that this framing of the 

question narrowed down the controversy by restricting the inquiry to Hindu 

marriages, and yet in another way, it broadened the inquiry by opening up the 

larger question, whether marriages solemnized in this country can at all be 

dissolved by a Court of foreign country. 42 The Hon'ble High Court had not decided this question, and 

preferred to rest its decision on the Le Mesurier doctrine i.e. domicile of the 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 20/32 spouses affords the only true test of jurisdiction. 

43 Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in order to bring out the real 

point in controversy, re­framed the question for decision thus: Is the decree of 

divorce passed by the Nevada Court in USA, entitled to recognition in India?

44 While arriving at their decision, several observations have been 

made about the significance of the matrimonial matters, which are on a different 

footing, and it was observed that marriage and divorce are matters of social 

significance, and it was also observed that this is more a domain of rules of 

Private International Law. 45 It was further discussed that it is a well recognized principle that 

Private International Law, is not the same in all countries, and there is no system 

of a Private International Law which can claim universal recognition. 

46 It was further observed that such a recognition is accorded, not as 

an act of courtesy, but on concern of justice, and that it is implicit in that process 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 21/32 that foreign law must not offend against our public policy, and therefore, we 

cannot adopt mechanically the rules of Private International Law evolved by that 

country. 47 Some of the significant observations by their Lordship in this 

judgment are necessary to be referred herein, as under:­

 "These principles vary greatly and are 
 moulded by the distinctive social, political and 
 economic conditions obtaining in these 
 countries. Questions relating to the personal 
 status of a 
 party depend in England and North America 
 upon the law of his domicil, but in France, 
 Italy, Spain and most of the other European 
 countries upon the law of his nationality. Principles governing matters within the 
 divorce jurisdiction are so conflicting in the 
 different countries that not unoften a man and 
 a woman are husband and wife in one 
 jurisdiction but treated as divorced in another 
 jurisdiction." peculiar facts of the given case i.e. fraudulent manner, in which, the husband 

had obtained a decree from Nevada Courts, claiming that he was a bona­fide 

domicile in the County Warsaw, State of Nevada, with the intent to make the 

State of Nevada for an indefinite period of time.

49 However, apart from that, the Hon'ble Supreme Court was also 

pleased to elaborate on the aspect as to the American Law in a similar 

jurisdiction i.e. a perception of principles, on which, foreign decrees of divorce 

are accorded recognition in America, and a brief acquaintance with the divorce 

jurisdiction in Nevada, and it was further observed, as under:­

 
 "No country is bound by comity to give 
 effect in its courts to divorce laws of another 
 country which are repugnant to its own laws 
 and public policy. Thus, where a "mail­order 
 divorce" granted by a Mexican court was not 
 based on jurisdictional finding of domicile, the 
 decree was held to have no extraterritorial 
 effect in New Jersey.(1) American courts 
 generally abhor the collusive Mexican mail­

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 23/32 order divorces and refuse to recognise them. (4) Mail order divorces are obtained by 
 correspondence by a spouse not domiciled in 
 Mexico. Lately, in his well­known book on 
 divorce says that "The facilities afforded by 
 the Mexican courts to grant divorces to all and 
 sundry whatsoever their nationality or domicile 
 have become even more notorious than those 
 in Reno, Nevada"(5) Recognition is denied to 
 such decrees as a matter of 
 public policy. " 50 In that case, particularly, the Nevada Matrimonial Law, which was 

quite peculiar, and particular laws of other States in USA, were discussed. 

Mainly, it was a case, where husband wrongly claimed that he was a domicile of 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 24/32 Nevada State, and intended to adopt as his residence, and which was a case of 

fraud. 51 In the present case, it is not even the case of the plaintiff that the 

defendant has tried to commit any fraud, or otherwise; or that the matrimonial 

law of State of Georgia in US are opposed to the public policy of India. 

52 The case cited was one of a sham domicile, alleged solely for the 

purpose of divorce, and which is not the case here as admittedly both the parties 

last resided together at US, and fact, they are still stated to be continuing to 

reside there. Even though, in the memo of parties, the plaintiff has shown his 

residence at Delhi, but when several queries were put him in the initial stage, he 

has admitted that he was also staying at USA. 53 As such, reliance placed by Ld. Counsel for plaintiff on this second 

decision, also, is not of any help to him, and plaintiff has failed to make out any 

case as to why the defendant should be restrained from proceeding or 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 25/32 continuing with her own divorce petition at Georgia Courts in USA, and as to 

what hardship would be caused to the plaintiff/husband if the injunction is not 

granted. 54 Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed as under:­

 "As we have stated at the outset, these 
 principles of the American and English conflict 
 of laws are not to be adopted blindly by Indian 
 courts. Our notions of a genuine divorce and of 
 substantial justice and the distinctive principles 
 of our public policy must determine the rules of 
 our Private International Law. But an awareness 
 of foreign law in a parallel jurisdiction would be 
 a useful guideline in determining these rules. 
 We are sovereign with our territory but "it is no 
 derogation of sovereignty to take account of 
 foreign law" and as said by Cardozo J. "We are 
 not so provincial as to say that every solution of 
 a problem is wrong because we deal with it 
 otherwise at home"; and we shall not brush 
 aside foreign judicial processes unless doing so 
 "would violate some fundamental principle of 
 justice, some prevalent conception of good 
 morals, some deep rooted tradition of the 
 common weal. Loucks v. Standard Oil Cg. of 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 26/32 New York (1918) 224 N.Y. 99." Furthermore, also observed as under by the Hon'ble Supreme 

Court:­

 " Section 13(a) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 
 1908 makes a foreign judgment conclusive as to 
 any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon 
 except "where it has not been pronounced by a 
 court of competent jurisdiction". Further observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, as under:­

 "Under section 13(e) , Civil Procedure Code, the 
 foreign judgment is open to challenge "where it 
 has been obtained by fraud" ." Towards the end, the Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed as 

under:­

 "Our legislature ought to find a solution to 
 such schizoid situations as the British 
 Parliament has, to a large extent, done by 
 passing the "Recognition 
 of Divorces and Legal Separations Act, 1971". Perhaps, the International Hague Convention 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 27/32 of 1970 which contains a comprehensive 
 scheme for relieving the confusion caused by 
 differing. systems of conflict of laws may serve 
 as a model." 55 Ld. counsel for plaintiff further also relied upon two more decisions 

which are of our own Hon'ble High Court i.e. Ravinder Singh Mahindra Vs. 

Param Singh and Ors. ­ CS (OS) No.1237/2009 - Date of decision 08.01.2010 

and Union of India Vs. Videocon Industries Ltd. ­ 2012 (129) DRJ 396. 

56 The first decision on its own facts was quite distinguishable from 

the facts of the present case and does not have any bearing on the present 

case. In that case, the defendant had filed a divorce petition in another country 

which was dismissed on account of no residence status and thereafter, the 

defendant filed another petition for judicial separation in the same country and 

then she filed a divorce petition in the district court and what was noted was that 

she had filed multiple proceeding against the plaintiff, based on similar causes 

of action, and on the same relief, and it is in this backdrop, that the Hon'ble High 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 28/32 Court was of the view that the suit praying for anti­suit injunction was 

maintainable and therefore, on the facts, this judgment would not be applicable 

to the given facts of this present case, where it is not the case of the plaintiff that 

defendant is not the resident of USA or that the US Courts are not competent to 

entertain and decide the petition of divorce filed by the defendant therein. 57 Same is the case with the reliance on the decision i.e. Union of 

India Vs. Videocon Industries Ltd. , where again it was a plea of resjudicata 

u/S 11 which was in question and which again is not applicable in the present 

case. 58 Even otherwise, it was a matter where the parties had agreed for 

arbitration and they had also agreed for a seat of arbitration to be at 

Kuwalalmpur and arbitration to be conducted in accordance with laws of England 

Court. Venue of arbitration had been shifted to London by the arbitrator with the 

consent of the parties. Apparently dispute was pending in the Hon'ble Supreme 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 29/32 Court of India on the point of jurisdiction with Indian Courts, and about the seat 

of arbitration. During the pendency of the dispute, defendant had moved the 

English Courts to seek a declaration that it is the English Courts who had the 

jurisdiction over the arbitration proceedings. Defendant contended before the 

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and sought a decision to hold that Indian Courts 

had no jurisdiction as change of venue did not change the seat of arbitration. 

The decision had become final and it was held that same issue could not be re­

agitated before the English Courts and in those circumstances, the plaintiff had 

been held entitled to anti­suit injunction and none other. 

59 The present case is totally on a different footing, and none of the 

circumstances exist here. Plaintiff has not been able to make out any cause of 

action for him to have approached the Indian Courts for an anti suit injunction 

qua the suit filed by wife at Georgia, USA. Even taking into account the three 

well settled principles for grant of an injunction, neither the plaintiff has been able 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 30/32 to make out a prima facie case in his favour since, he has admitted that both 

parties to the marriage last resided together at USA, and consequently the 

balance of convenience also lies, not in favour of the plaintiff/husband, but in 

favour of the defendant/wife, applying the principle of 'forum convenience' as 

already discussed above as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case 

earlier referred. Regarding there being any irreparable injury, the plaintiff has not 

been able to show any injury that may be caused by the proceedings of the 

divorce petition of the defendant/wife before US Courts, much less an irreparable 

injury. 60 Thus, even going by these established principles for grant of an 

injunctioin, the plaintiff would not be even entitled to seek such like injunction 

and it is evident that he has failed to make out a cause of action. If expenses 

are matter, it would be equally expensive or rather may be more expensive for 

the defendant/wife to come to Indian Courts to seek a divorce. is always open to him to approach the US Courts to seek the same relief i.e. 

divorce and in fact to get the consolidation of the two suits to be tried and 

decided by one and the same court be it at USA, if he is actually concerned 

about the apprehension of conflicting decisions. 

62 Since the Hindu Marriage Act provides one of the jurisdiction being 

at the place where the parties lastly resided together, there is no good reason 

why the plaintiff should be seeking an injunction against the defendant of the 

kind as sought. 63 The suit is without any cause of action and accordingly, though the 

application for amendment has been allowed and the amended plaint has been 

taken on record, however, to issue summons to the defendant would be only 

vexatious as the suit is without any cause of action. The plaint is rejected U/O 7 

CS No. 328/14 ARUN SARDANA Vs TINA SARDANA Page Nos. 32/32 Rule 11 CPC . File be consigned to Record Room.