It is necessary for social media platforms to take all effective measures so that child pornography is not hosted on their platforms, the Delhi High Court recently held . This is a necessary condition for platforms to fulfil if they wish to receive safe harbour protections under India’s intermediary liability rules. The order came after a woman filed a plea seeking to remove her intimate pictures from platforms such as Instagram, YouTube, and Telegram, claiming they were taken when she was a minor, and were leaked online by her former partner after the two split up. LiveLaw first reported this.

A single bench of Justice Vibhu Bakhru also directed concerned police agencies to share the offending material relating to the petitioner to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). NCRB has a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the US-based non-profit National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children to receive information about online child porn content. “The NCRB shall also use the protocols available in terms of the Memorandum of Understanding entered into with NCMEC or otherwise to notify the offending material in order that the same can be actioned and removed from other platforms as well,” the court held. As per the MoU, the NCRB cannot share these reports with anyone apart from government law enforcement agencies.

The petitioner became close friends with a person in 2012 when she was sixteen years, and had shared intimate pictures of her with him, after the person (accused) blackmailed her with suicide. However, the relationship, the petitioner claimed, was abusive and she decided to part ways with him. She then went to the UK for further studies in 2014.

However, she said, the accused visited her residence in the UK and physically assaulted her. Following this, she filed a police complaint, and the accused pleaded guilty in front of a UK court in 2017, which also passed an order restraining him from contacting the petitioner by any means, including electronic means, until January 2019. Per the Delhi High Court order, the accused moved to India in 2017.

In 2019, the petitioner moved to Australia for higher studies, and in October-November that year, she found that the accused had posted her intimate pictures on several social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube. These were the same pictures that she had shared with the accused earlier, when she was a minor, the petitioner claimed.  This prompted the woman to file a complaint with the Cyber Crime Department of the Delhi Police. Her petition in the Delhi High Court was listed in July 2020.

The petitioner also sent notices to Facebook (Instagram), Google (YouTube), and Telegram asking them to immediately remove certain webpages containing her intimate pictures. However, the platforms did not remove the content, she claimed. The content was removed from Instagram and YouTube platforms in July 2020 after after the Delhi High Court ordered them to do so, since “there was no dispute that the webpages contained objectionable photographs of a minor girl”. It is not clear from the court’s order whether content flagged on Telegram was also removed.

However, even after the flagged links were taken down, the court said the same content had been re-uploaded to Instagram, YouTube and other platforms, suggesting that the offending images had been widely distributed and the same are also being uploaded by several persons other than the accused, the court said, and held:

“This brought into the sharp focus the problem of preventing circulation of identified objectionable material on the platforms operated on the net… The police authorities shall also use the protocols and resources available with NCRB and or other concerned agencies to identify the persons who are re-uploading the offensive content in India and take such actions as warranted, in accordance with law.” — Delhi High Court

Facebook and Google both touted the many measures they had taken to combat the spread of child sexual abuse material on their platforms, in their respective responses to the court:

With 1,987,430 reports, India accounted for 11.7% of all suspected child sexual exploitation reports received by NCMEC’s Cyber Tipline in 2019. India was followed by Pakistan with 1,158,390 reports (6.8%), Iraq with 1,026,809 reports (6.04%), Indonesia with 840,221 reports (4.95%) and Mexico with 827,998 reports (4.87%). In total, of all such content reported via the platform in 2019, Facebook accounted for a lion’s share — 94.34%.

Owing to the abundance of such content on the internet, and also on encrypted platforms like WhatsApp, governments have made recommendations to breaking encryption for stopping the spread of such content:

In India, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act also offers rules against hosting child porn content, which requires social media platforms to report such content or any information about its storage and dissemination, to the Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police.

Also read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event