आयकर अपील य अ धकरण,च डीगढ़ यायपीठ "ए" , च डीगढ़
 IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH BENCH "A", CHANDIGARH

 ी एन.के.सैनी, उपा य एवं ी संजय गग$, या%यक सद'य
 BEFORE: SHRI. N.K.SAINI, VP & SHRI , SANJAY GARG, JM

 आयकर अपील सं./ ITA No. 706, 707 & 709/Chd/2018
 नधा रण वष / Assessment Year : 2008-09, 2010-11 & 2012-13

 Shri Sanjay Singhal बनाम The DCIT
 3- Industrial Area, Phase-1 Central Circle-1
 Chandigarh Chandigarh
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN No: ANRPS7985C
 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent

 आयकर अपील सं./ ITA No. 712, 713 & 715/Chd/2018
 नधा रण वष / Assessment Year : 2008-09, 2010-11 & 2012-13

 Smt. Aarti Singhal बनाम The DCIT
 3- Industrial Area, Phase-1 Central Circle-1
 Chandigarh Chandigarh
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN No: ANRPS7985C
 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent

 नधा रती क! ओर से/Assessee by : Shri S.K. Tulsiyan, Advocate
 Shri Ashwani Kumar, C.A
 Ms. Abha Aggarwal, C.A
 Ms. Bhoomija Verma, Advocate
 Mr. Aditya Kumar, C.A
 राज व क! ओर से/ Revenue by : Shri. G.C. Srivastava, Special Counsel

 सन
 ु वाई क! तार&ख/Date of Hearing : 04/02/2020
 उदघोषणा क! तार&ख/Date of Pronouncement : 07/02/2020

 आदे श/Order

PER BENCH: 2. These appeals were earlier heard on 01/10/2019, at that time, one of the
contention of the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee was that these appeals are 2 squarely covered vide order dt. 31/10/2018 of the ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal & Ors Vs. ACIT in ITA Nos. 1412-1414, 1476-1478, 1482, 1485-
1487/Del/2018. To clarify this fact that as to whether the said order has been
confirmed or reversed by the higher forum, these cases was fixed for clarification
on 04/02/2020 i.e. the date on which another cases of the same group to which
these assessees belong are fixed. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee clarified that
the Departmental appeals against the said order dated 31/10/2018, were
belated by approximately 200 days and till date those appeals had not been
admitted by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court and as such the said order dt.
31/10/2018 in the case of another persons belonging to the same group and
decided by the ITAT Delhi Bench, is intact. 2.1 Since the issues involved are common having similar facts in all these
appeals which were heard together, so these are being disposed off by this
consolidated order for the sake of convenience and brevity. 3. At the first instance we will deal with the appeal in ITA No. 706/Chd/2018
wherein following grounds have been raised: 4. The ground nos. 1 & 5 are legal grounds vide which the assessee had
challenged the jurisdiction of the A.O. in initiating the proceedings under section 153A of the Act when no incriminating material was found during the
course of search. These legal grounds were argued at the first instance by both
the parties. 5. Facts relating to the issue as emerging from the order of the authorities
below in brief are that a search and seizure operation under section 132(1) of
the Income Tax Act (here-in-after referred as "Act"), was carried out by the
Department at the business premises of the assessee Group i.e; Bhushan Power
& Steel Group (BPSL in short) alongwith residential / business premises of its
Directors and other related entities & persons on 03/03/2010. 6. During the course of search certain incriminating documents, papers,
books of accounts etc. were found and seized. The A.O. mentioned that the
assessee being the Director and key person of the Group filed letter dt.
18/06/2010 before the Investigation Wing surrendering an amount of Rs. 302
Crores in the hands of various Group Companies, his wife and himself as
undisclosed income emanating from the seized documents. The surrender was
made as under: 30/06/2013 under section 245D(4) for the A.Y. 2004-05 to 2011-12 in the case of
M/s BPSL and gave the following decision relating to income surrendered by the
Assessee in the individual capacity: By following the order of the Settlement Commission the AO revised the
assessment order on 01/08/2013. 6.2 In the present case the another survey was conducted on 27/12/2012 in
M/s BPSL Group by DIT(Investigation), Chandigarh which resulted in voluntary
disclosure of Rs. 70.36 Crores for the A.Y. 2013-14 on account of unexplained
credits, cash payment for land purchase and interest disallowance in the hands
of various Group concerns. Thereafter, another search and seizure operation on
21/02/2014 was initiated by the Department at the business premises alongwith
residential / business premises of the Directors and other related persons of BPSL. 6.3 The AO also observed that various new evidences in the form of soft as
well as hard data including statements of Numerous Entry Operators were found
/ recorded which prime facie indicated that bogus Long Term Capital Gain
(LTCG), accommodation entries in the case of individuals of BPSL group and
One Time accommodation (OT) towards share capital /share premium in the
case of group concerns were obtained which suggested that BPSL Group had
been continuously involved in introducing its unaccounted income in garb of
LTCG, OT etc. The AO pointed out that during the course of search and seizure
action on 22/02/2014 the key person of the BPSL Group Shri Sanjay Singhal i.e;
the assessee was confronted with the various incriminating evidences alongwith
the statement of various connected persons and his statement under section
132(4) of the Act was recorded wherein in reply to last question he disclosed
additional income of Rs. 250 crores for the A.Y's. 2011-12 & 2012-13 which
included the following income: (PIL), the A.O. observed that the search and seizure operation under section 132 of the Act was conducted in the case of Shri Shrish Chandrakant Shah (SCS) on
09/04/2013 and it was found that M/s BPSL Group had received huge amount of
accommodation entries from the cartel of companies managed and controlled
by SCS and various other entry operators. He also pointed out that following
evidences were in possession of the Department: 310312.xls
 O1.O4.2009 to 31.03.2012. Settings\user2\Destop 2. Account of R.K. Kedia in the "Kedia 2" sheet in MS Excel F:\pen drive back up1 ""Kedia 2" sheet
 books of Shirish Shah file ac 1 .xls Removable Disk/ Bips backup
 maintained in MS Excel format 14.02.12
 (till 14.02.12) 3. Cheque received from Singal "Cheque received from Cheque received
 Group by SCS singals" from Singals 8 Group by SCS

 ORAL EVIDENCE IN POSSESSION OF THE DEPARTMENT :- 5 Damodar Attal Main person handling share trading and 09.04.2013 u/s. 131 (1 A)
 synchronized trading work. office premises of SCS, backup of the books of accounts was taken and than an
excel sheet named "Kedia 2" was impounded in which details of the shares of
M/s PIL sold by the assessee and his family had been recorded under the 9 heading " new account" which contained details of cash received by the SCS
from Kedia (i.e. Shri Raj Kumar Kedia or R.K. Kedia of Delhi) on behalf of the BPSL
Group against the payment made on the purchase of shares. The A.O.
mentioned names of the entities to whom the shares of M/s PIL held by the
assessee and his family were sold at page no 10 of the assessment order, for the
cost of repetition the same are not reproduced herein. The A.O. pointed out
that the analysis of the time difference between the order placed and the trade
execution by the assessee and his family had been carried out on the data
received from the BSE which revealed that out of the total 3138 share sold,
transactions entered into by the assessee and his family i.e. 48% of the total
traded were executed within one minute of the order placed in the exchange
and more than 71% orders were executed within five minutes of placing the
orders on the Exchange. He also pointed out that modus operandi followed by
the SCS for providing exempt LTCG had been explained in details in his various
sworn statements recorded during the course of search and post search
proceedings which had been corroborated and collated with the evidences
found and seized / impounded during the course of search and survey
proceedings conducted in the case of SCS at various premises. The evidences
and the statements of employees of SCS were confronted to him during the
course of search and in the post search proceedings and SCS in his statement
admitted to have provided various types of accommodation entries against
receipt of cash from the clients either directly or through intermediaries and also
admitted to be engaged in synchronized trading in the shares of various listed
companies managed and controlled by him so as to facilitate LTCG to the
clients against receipt of cash from them. The A.O. mentioned that the modus
operandi followed by SCS for providing accommodation entries of LTCG was as
under: The A.O. summarized the modus operandi stated by SCS and OPK as under: o The Directors of the company are dummy directors and the effective
 control and management of the company was with SCS. 6.9 The A.O. observed that SCS had accepted these facts during the course
of his statement recorded on 13/04/2013, 03/06/2013, 11/06/2013, 25/11/2013
and 13/01/2014 that the synchronized trading was resorted to so as to jack up
the price of the shares to buy the shares from the clients and to provide them
payout against receipt of cash from them and that the beneficiary clients were
the assessee, his family and group concern. 6.10 The A.O. also observed that the key employees of SCS namely Shri
Chandan Kumar Singh and Shri Rajen Kachaliya stated in their statement that 12 day to day receipt of cash was recorded in the cash sheets which were
maintained in the computer at the office of SCS situated at "Dwarka Ashish
Building" and the physical copies of the printouts were also maintained at the
said office which were found during the course of survey conducted on
09/04/2013 at the office of Shri SCS. The A.O. pointed out that the name, code
name or the initials of the client/intermediary from or through whose reference,
cash had been received or paid was recorded in the column "PARTY", and the
amount of cash received/collected by or on behalf of SCS from /through the
person mentioned in the "Party" column was entered in the column
"Received". The A.O. also pointed out that in the most of instances the cash
received by SCS from the assessee & Group had been paid to Pintu alias
Chintan (Praveen Kumar Jain) and the same had also been found to have
been recorded in the books independently maintained by Pintu, seized during
the course of search conducted in his own case. The A.O. reproduced the
details of new accounts in Kedia 2 Sheet at page no. 19 to 27 of the assessment
order, the contents of the same was extracted as under: have been credited and debited in the said sheet has been recorded.
 • "Prraneta New" refers to transaction of purchase and sale of shares of M/s.
 Prraneta Industries Limited (PIL)

 • "4.75%" represents commission charged on the LTCG provided to the
 client (This was charged From Mr. Kedia who charged at higher rate from clients). • "cash red" represents cash received from the client and credited to the
 account of the client at Column No. (8) 13 • "Angadiya charges" refer to the cash courier expenses debited to the
 account of the party/client. o At column No. (3), the quantity of shares of the company mentioned at
 Column No (2) sold or purchased is recorded. The + Ve sign denotes purchase of
 shares of the company recorded at Column No. 2 by SCS though persons and
 companies controlled by him wherein the counterparty is the seller which has
 provided cash to SCS and has received payout through synchronized trading. In
 this case Rs. 1,00,000/- shares of M/s Pranneta Industries Ltd. have been
 purchased by SCS from counter party from whom cash has been received.
 o At column No. (4), the rate per share (in certain cases the average rate of
 the shares purchased by SCS through synchronized trade from the client) of
 shares of the company mentioned at Column No (2) is recorded. In this case the
 rate per share is Rs. 46.25 per share. o At column No. (5), the total trade value of the shares sold by the client
 and purchased by SCS (through persons controlled by him on BSE) is recorded. In
 this case the total trade value of the purchase of shares of M/s Pranneta
 Industries Ltd.from the client is Rs. 46,25,000/-. This column represents the debit
 made by SCS to the account of the client. In this case the account of BPSL Group
 has been debited by Rs. 46,25,000/-. o At column No. (6), the commission debited to the account (Rs. 194607.5/-
 in this case) of the client on the total LTCG facilitated to the client by SCS is
 recorded. In the present case the rate of commission has been charged at 4.75%
 of the net LTCG (Refer column No.2). The value of LTCG has been computed by
 SCS at Rs. 40.97 (Lakhs) (i.e. sale price per share minus the purchase price
 multiplied by the number of shares sold by the client to SCS. In the present case
 the purchase price is Rs. 2.25 per share and the sale price is Rs. 46.25 and the no
 of shares sold by BPSL Group is 100000. Thus, LTCG is 44 X 100000 = 44,00,000/-) . o At Column No. (7) the details of any amount paid by SCS to the client
 Sanjay Singal have been recorded. The entries recorded in this column are also of
 the nature of debit made by SCS to the client account. o At column No. (8), the amount received by SCS from the client is
 recorded. The entries recorded in this column are in the nature of credits made
 by SCS to the clients account. For instance the cash of Rs. 50,00,000/- received by
 SCS from the client in this case is credited to his account at column No. (8). The
 nature of credit or the mode of receipt is recorded at Column No. 2 (Details) of
 the sheet. o At column No. (9), the balance in the account of the client BPSL Group is
 recorded. Positive balance represents debit balance i.e. the amount receivable
 by SCS from the client and vice versa. According to the A.O. the entries in the Kedia 2 Sheet completely correlated
with the shares trading data of M/s PIL as obtained from the BSE which revealed
that 3,00,000 shares of M/s PIL had been traded on 14/02/2011 @ Rs. 68.75/- per 14 share and exactly total 3,00,000 shares had been sold by the various individuals
to M/s BPSL Group as per following details: The A.O. on the basis of statement of Shri R. K. Kedia and his accountant Shri
Manish Arora was of the view that the Shri R.K. Kedia had provided
accommodation entries from his paper concerns and had arranged
accommodation entries for various beneficiaries from different entry operators in
lieu of unaccounted cash after charging certain percentage of commission in
cash and that he also told the name of persons who contacted him for taking
accommodation entries on behalf of various beneficiaries who delivered 17 unaccounted cash to his employees on behalf of the beneficiaries. The A.O. on
the basis of statement of Shri R.K. Kedia observed as under: o Admittance by Sh. R.K. Kedia himself on oath u/s 132(4) of Income Tax
 Act, that he is in the business of providing accommodation entries,

 o Statement by Sh. Manish Arora on oath that Sh. R.K. Kedia is in the
 business of providing accommodation entries,

 o Hand written cash receipt and payment account related to
 accommodation providing business of Sh. R.K. Kedia found and seized from the
 residence of Sh. Manish Arora. o Coded tally books of accounts pertaining to accommodation entry
 business of Sh. R.K. Kedia found and seized from the residence of Sh. Manish
 Arora, Accountant of Sh. R.K. Kedia. o Date and time wise mail communications between Sh. R.K. Kedia and
 other entry operators for providing various kind of accommodation entries found
 as printouts and seized. These mails printouts also establishes beyond doubt that
 Sh. R.K. Kedia has provided accommodation entries. These mails printouts also
 have details to decipher the codes used while entering transations in tally in
 coded language. o Coded SMS communication (generally currency notes numbers) while
 receiving and delivering cash from beneficiaries to entry operators through
 angadias from the phone of Sh. Manish Arora. o Statement on oath given by Sh. San jay Kumar and Sh. Bishu Jain two
 employees of Sh. R. K.Kedia, that they used to collect cash and deliver that to
 angadias on the instructions of Sh. R.K. Kedia. 6.18 The A.O. observed that the evidence seized from Shri Parveen Agarwal an
entry provider based at Kolkata revealed the modus operandi adopted to
provide various accommodation entries in collusion with Shri R.K. Kedia. He also 22 produced the Flow Chart of modus operandi of accommodation entries and
correlation of data between Shri Kedia and Parveen Agarwal. However, the
assessee submitted that statement of Shri R.K. Kedia and Shri Manish Arora were
not reliable. 6.19 The A.O. also observed that the Director of M/s Safal Reality Pvt. Ltd., Shri
Uday Hasmukhlal Vora and Partner of M/s Safal Developers, Shri Dhiren
Hasmukhlal Vora, filed affidavit dt. 26/11/2015 before their A.O. and disclosed
additional income which was also offered for taxation before the Income Tax
Settlement Commission, Mumbai in their application and that they had
accepted that this income was ploughed back through companies managed
and controlled by Shri Shirish C. Saha (SCS) by making investment in preferential
share capital in one of their group concern namely M/s Andura Infrastructure
Products Pvt. Ltd. which clearly revealed that the companies managed and
controlled by SCS were mere paper companies and all the financial dealings of
the assessee group with SCS and his companies were in the nature of
accommodation entries. The A.O. further observed that in the case of SCS, on
the basis of entries recorded in the evidence seized / impounded during the
search, details of year wise commission and deposits supposed to have been
received by SCS for providing accommodation entries were prepared which
was quantified at Rs. 92.79 Crores and the same was not challenged by SCS,
who however claimed that various expenses were incurred against such
commission. 6.20 He also observed that Shri Praveen Agarwal had been assessed as being
in business of providing accommodation entries and he admitted unaccounted
income of Rs. 25 Crores, the disclosure was mainly commission income earned
through his activities of providing various kind of accommodation entries and
that all the financial dealings of BPSL group with the companies managed and
controlled by Shri Praveen Kumar Agarwal were in the nature of
accommodation entries. 7. The A.O. mentioned that various incriminating documents in the form of
Hard/Soft data were found and seized on 13/06/2014 by the investigation wing
which were confronted to Shri R.K. Kedia whose sworn statement were recorded
from 13/06/2014 to 16/06/2014 and detailed statement of his accountant Shri
Manish Arora were also recorded on various dates in which he described the
whole modus operandi of providing accommodation entries and also explained
each and every papers alongwith the code words mentioned on them and
when there was no escape route Shri R.K. Kedia accepted all the facts
mentioned by Shri Manish Arora. However Shri R.K. Kedia vide letter dt.
20/10/2014 retracted from the sworn statement given earlier and stated that
those were given under mental stress. The A.O. again recorded the statement of
Shri R.K. Kedia under oath on 26/03/2015 wherein he was confronted with the
evidences gathered and he again confirmed that he was an entry provider and
also confirmed all the sworn statements given earlier. The A.O. did not accept
this contention of the assessee that the department put a lot of pressure on Shri
Manish Arora to receive favourable remarks from him. He therefore asked the
assessee to show cause as to why the receipts credited in the books of account
on account of sale of shares should not be brought to tax under section 68 of
the Act and that as to why the commission @ 6.5% paid in cash to get
accommodation entries of exempt LTCG from various bogus scripts / companies
should not be brought to tax under section 68 of the Act as unaccounted
expenditure. The Assessee was also required to produce all the persons
(including contra parties and brokers) from whom money was received, along
with their books of accounts, ITR details, relevant vouchers and ledger account
etc. The A.O. issued a detailed show cause notice dt. 23/10/2015 to the
assessee on the issue of bogus LTCG accommodation entries received from M/s
Praneeta Industries Ltd.(PLI) (Now known as Aadhar Ventures India Ltd. ). 8. In response the assessee submitted that he had invested in the share
warrants of PIL and subsequently these shares were converted to equity shares 24 and all the shares were credited to DEMAT account, the shares of PIL were held
for more than 12 months and the sales were affected on various dates during
the year under consideration and all the shares were sold through stock broker
registered with Bombay Stock Exchange(BSE) through recognized stock
exchange and that the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) on the entire sale was
duly paid, as such, the assessee had earned LTCG on sales of shears of PIL which
was claimed as exempt under section 10(38) of the Act. It was also submitted
that all the proceeds from the sales of shares were received through banking
channels from stock broker through whom the shares were sold and duly
credited to the assessee's bank accounts, copies of the contract notes and sale
bills as an evidence towards sale of shares of M/s PIL claimed as exempt under section 10(38) of the Act were furnished. It was submitted that the assessee did
not know any person by the name Shri Shirish Chandrakant Shah (SCS) and had
nothing to do with the contents of various documents found and seized from the
possession of Shri SCS and that no cash was ever paid to any person and no
accommodation entries had been received. As regards to the issue relating to
the counter parties purchasing the shares of M/s PIL from the assessee were
controlled by SCS, it was stated that there were various other counter parties
which were not included in the list of 212 companies managed and controlled
by SCS. As regards to the analysis of the timing difference that most of the trades
were executed within one minute and majority of orders were executed within
five minutes of placing of order. It was stated that no adverse inference on the
basis of analysis of trade data could have been made. As regards to the fact
that corroborative sworn statements had been given by the dummy directors of
212 companies controlled by SCS, it was stated that the assessee did not know
any of those persons and was not aware as to why and under what
circumstances these statements were given by those persons. It was also stated
that cross examination of SCS and all other persons which were covered 25 alongwith SCS and gave sworn statements, should have been allowed to the
assessee. 9. As regards to the decision of investment in M/s PIL the assessee submitted
as under: When the share price of Prraneta Industries Limited appreciated, the Assessee
 decided to dispose o f f the shares through his brokers. As already mentioned in
 the earlier para of reply, the entire sale was through registered stock broker and
 the sale transactions of shares of Prraneta Industries Ltd. were effected online and
 the payments against the same were received through banking channels from
 the stock broker. " 10. As regards to the detail of cash as recorded in BIPS folder, it was stated
that the assessee was not aware of the basis / purposes of maintaining those
records and that no adverse inference could have been drawn merely on the
basis of statement of SCS and that he was not aware of the transactions
between SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia. 11. As regard to the transactions recorded in the form of cash sheets and
cheques sheets seized from the premises of SCS, the assessee submitted that he
was not aware of nor was he in any way concerned with the transactions
recorded in the seized documents. He denied to know SCS, Praveen Kumar Jain
and any other person except R.K. Kedia. On the issue that the transaction 26 mentioned on various documents seized from Shri Kedia, SCS and Praveen
Kumar Jain tallies exactly between themselves and independently with the
transactions recorded in the books of the assessee group , it was stated that the
documents nowhere contained the name of the assessee or his family
members. However it was acknowledged that the amount and number of
shares recorded in the data seized from entry providers matched with the
actual sale of shares of M/s PIL by the assessee and his family members, but
stated that no conclusion could have been drawn against him on that basis. 12. With regard to the admission of Shri R.K. Kedia being an entry provider the
assessee submitted that Shri R.K. Kedia was not a reliable person and he had
taken different stands during the course of statement recorded on various dates
i.e. 22/02/2014, 20/03/2014, 13/06/2014 and his letter filed on 20/10/2014.
Regarding the maintenance of data of LTCG transactions of BPSL family and
group by Shri R.K. Kedia the assessee submitted that he was not aware of the
purpose of maintaining such records by him and that he might have been
expecting some commission since he had advised for investment in the shares
of PIL and the assessee had earned a handsome amount from the said
investment. However no such commission was ever agreed or paid to him. 13. As regard to the voluntary surrender of Rs. 250 crores made by the
assessee during the course of search proceedings, it was submitted before the
A.O. that during the course of search on 21/02/2014 the assessee was under a
lot of mental stress and psychological pressure and hence a letter offering an
amount of Rs. 250 Crores as additional income in the entire group of cases was
made to avoid litigation and to purchase peace of mind. It was further
submitted that offer of Rs. 159.61 crores pertaining to LTCG on shares of M/s PIL
was made without any factual basis and there was no admission or
acknowledgment that any accommodation entry was received or any
unaccounted income had been earned. It was also submitted that the offer of
additional income had been made under mental stress, and psychological 27 pressure, so, it was withdrawn. However the A.O. after considering the
submissions of the assessee observed that the assessee had not commented or
offerred any explanation on the merits of the evidence/documents seized from
Mr. Kedia, SCS and Praveen Kumar Jain which tallied exactly between
themselves and independently with the transactions recorded in the books of
the assessee group. He further observed that upon being confronted with solid
evidence establishing the transaction of sale of shares of penny stock
companies as sham transaction undertaken through a syndicate of entry
providers, the onus cast on the assessee doubles under section 68 of the Act to
prove that the transactions were genuine and mere filing of Demat account,
bank account, contract notes, bills etc was not adequate to discharge the
heavy onus cast upon the assessee. He also observed that the assessee was
required to produce the brokers through whom transactions were undertaken in
stock exchange, produce the counter parties who purchased the shares and
the directors of penny stock companies etc for examination to prove identity,
creditworthiness, genuineness of transaction which the assessee failed to do.
Therefore the income was taxable under section 68 of the Act. The reliance was
placed on the following case laws: The A.O. was of the view that M/s PACL India Ltd. siphoned off its funds in garb
of land development for which bogus bills were arranged through the
companies managed and controlled by Shri Praveen Kumar Agarwal. The A.O.
also observed that the assessee had stated that investment in the shares of M/s
PIL was made on the perception that it was planning to set up big projects in
Gujrat, Mumabi and overseas and that he had knowledge about land
development contract awarded to M/s PIL by M/s PACL India Ltd., therefore, he
decided to invest in the shares of that company. The A.O. observed that the
details found maintained by Shri Praveen Kumar Agarwal established that all
those contracts were completely bogus and it was a network created for
benefit of all the beneficiaries indulged in tax avoidance practices. Therefore
the contention regarding decision of investment in M/s PIL was base-less without
any supporting evidence. He also observed that the assessee remained silent 30 with regard to the cash transactions against accommodation entries recorded
in BIPL folder and did not comment or offerred any explanation. The A.O. also
mentioned that the data seized from various persons and location matched
among themselves and with the entries recorded in the assessee's books,
authenticated the correctness of the data and if the seized data suggested that
accommodation entries had been taken in lieu of cash then it was a conclusive
proof. As regard to the assessee's stand that Shri R.K. Kedia was not a reliable
person, the A.O. observed that Shri Kedia backed up his statement by filing an
affidavit dated 31/03/2015 confirming the facts narrated in the statement dt.
26/03/2015, therefore the assessee's contention do not hold much ground,
particularly when the assessee could not satisfactorily explained the reason for
maintaining data pertaining to details of share capital / premium received by
the assessee group, details of advances paid and details of shares sold by it,
clandestinely by Mr. Kedia who had long association with BPSL group and delt
directly with the key person like assessee. 14. With regard to the disclosure of Rs. 250 Crores mae under section 132(4) of
the Act by the assessee and its retraction, the A.O. observed that during the
course of search and seizure operation the assessee was confronted with
various documentary evidences and statements of various entry operators like
SCS, Omprakash Anandilal Khandelwal (director of PIL), R K Kedia etc. and
when the assessee found himself cornered by the department, he admitted
undisclosed income of Rs. 250 Crores and a surrender letter was also furnished
wherein it was stated that the detailed bifurcation would be submitted later and
that the assessee on 06/03/2014 furnished a letter clearly stating that out of the
surrender of Rs. 250 Crores, Rs. 159.61 Crores had been surrendered for the LTCG
shown from M/s PIL in the assessment year 2011-12 and 2012-13 in the hands of
the assessee, his HUF and his wife Smt. Arti Singal. Therefore the claim of the
assessee that the surrender was without any basis was itself baseless and
factually incorrect. 14.1 The A.O. also mentioned that the documents seized from the possession
of the entry providers contained details of RTGS/Cheque payments which tallied
with the bank account of BPSL group concerns and family members then it was
deemed that all the contents of the documents were true and correct. The A.O.
reiterated the explanation of the assessee at page no. 124 and 125 of the
assessment order and mentioned that the assessee stated that the statement of
all the persons were recorded at the back and if the department wanted to rely
on any part of the statements for drawing any adverse inference against the
assessee, then he may be intimated regarding the specific charge made
against the assessee out of their statement and he may also be allowed an
opportunity to cross examine and that how the conclusion was drawn from
financial statements of penny stock which were not doing any meaningful
business activity, it was stated that various things regarding those companies
attracted him to make investments and that he was not aware of the activity of
any entities / individuals involved and nor was assessee in any way connected
with the activities if any of such entities / individuals. The A.O. observed that
assessee did not elaborate or explain the things which attracted him about
those companies and did not file any supporting documents. 14.2 The Assessee submitted to the A.O. that he did not know any of the
person whose statements were recorded and was not in any way connected
with their activities and that the statement of those brokers / sub brokers /
employees/ associates of broker were recorded at the back of the assessee
and reliance sought to be placed for drawing any adverse inference against
the assessee on the basis of statements recorded without the presence of the
assessee was unwarranted. The assessee also submitted that he did not know
any person by name Shri Manish Arora with whom he never dealt either directly
or through any of his employees. It was also alleged that the statements given
by Shri Manish Arora were not out of free mind and had been given under
enormous pressure as the same continued for a period of almost 25 days, 32 therefore, he was bound to be under a lot of stress and psychological pressure
and his statement recorded under those circumstances could not be relied
upon. The assessee also stated that he was not aware for what purposes
"Chopra Account" was prepared by Shri R.K. Kedia and Shri Manish Arora to
whom he never paid any cash and had nothing to do with the cash
transactions recorded in "Chopra Account" in the books of JMD Associates. 15. With regard to the observations regarding payment of commission @ 6%
to 7% in cash for receiving the accommodation entries through Mr. Kedia, the
assesse outrightly denied this fact. The A.O. however observed that most of the
entry providers had specifically admitted that they were in the business of
providing entry through various companies managed and controlled by them
and that the actual activity of their companies was to provide accommodation
entries and no genuine business activities were undertaken and that the
thousands of persons across country were benefitted from their activities in
evading tax and the assessee was one of them. The A.O. also observed that the
assessee had not explained how and what specific information he had which
prompted him to make huge investments in the companies particularly when he
did not file any evidence to substantiate his claim and that the Balance Sheets
of these companies revealed that there was no significant fixed assets, capital
work in progress was NIL, bank balance was almost NIL, funds received as share
capital / premium or unsecured loans were immediately advanced as loan or
invested as share capital / premium, the profit & loss account of those
companies suggested only trading activity wherein the employee cost,
administrative expense, finance charge etc which were necessary to conduct
genuine activity were negligible and no dividend was ever declared by those
companies and the earning per share was almost NIL. He also observed that the
financial statement of all the penny stock companies from which the assessee
earned huge profits had similar pattern and that any investor could see that
there was no future prospects and no meaningful activities in those companies, 33 therefore no prudent person would invest any money in shares of those
companies, yet the assessee alongwith his family choose to invest not in one but
in at least 15 such companies and earned extraordinary income of approx Rs.
750 crores on sale of shares over a period of five years which was beyond
human probability and hence the transactions were treated as sham. 16. With regard to the issue of jacking up the price of shares the A.O.
observed that there were direct and circumstantial evidences which established
that the price of those penny stocks were artificially jacked up the cartel of
various entry providers and this fact had duly been accepted by SCS in his
sworn statements. He also observed that the statement of S/Shri R.K. Kedia,
Manish Arora, Shrish Chanderkant Shah(SCS), Jagdish Purohit, Parveen Jain
(Pintu alias Chintan), Parveen Kumar Agarwal etc were based on the clinching
evidences in the form of various hard & soft documents which directly
established that the assessee group was one of the major beneficiaries of their
activities and the statements of those brokers / sub brokers were only
corroborative & circumstantial evidence to prove the case of the department.
He also observed that the detailed statements of Shri Manish Arora was
recorded over a period of 25 days which strengthens the authenticity of the
statements which remained consistent throughout the period and that the
evidences found and seized from Shri R.K. Kedia, SCS and Shri Praveen Jain
established that those people were working hand in glove in providing various
types of accommodation entries to various beneficiaries including BPSL group
and that the entries recorded in the name of "JMD Associates" and "Chopra
Account" were described at length by Manish Arora and those entries were
cross matched from the actual transaction recorded in the assessee's books,
therefore, the authenticity of the documents seized from the possession of Shri
Kedia and Manish Arora could not be doubled and since Mr. Chopra was an
employee of BPSL and working for this group for a long time, therefore, "Chopra
Account" was not mere imaginary creation of Shri. Kedia and Manish Arora. 17. With regard to commission paid in cash to the entry providers, the A.O.
observed that commission @ 6% to 7 % was being paid to Shri Kedia was based
on the entries recorded in various excel sheets by Shri R.K. Kedia and the
assessee could not satisfactorily explained the reason for maintaining data
pertaining to him clandestinely by Shri Kedia and his accountant Shri Manish
Arora and that Shri Kedia had long association with BPSL group and delt directly
with the key person i.e; the assessee. Therefore there was no inconsistency in
charging of the commission from the beneficiaries. 18. With regard to the cross examination of persons whose statements were
relied upon by the Department, the A.O. observed that vide order sheet entry
dt. 05/02/2016 the authorized representative of the assessee was asked to give
the names of the persons whom the assessee wanted to cross examine, but
nothing was submitted and after taking more than 15 days, authorized
representative of the assessee submitted that the assessee wanted to cross
examine all the persons whose statements had been relied upon and provided
to the assessee. The A.O. was of the view that cross examination was required
only where there were no documentary evidence and where the addition was
made merely on the basis of statement of a third person but in this case solid
evidences were found and the statement only corroborated the evidences
found in the form of electronic data seized from various entry provider located
at various part of the country which was collected independently from remote
locations, tallied and matched not only with each other but also with the
regular books of account of the assessee and its group concerns. He further
observed that the assessee was confronted with all the data and evidences
collected by the department but he could not explain or comment on merits of
the evidences. The A.O. pointed out that none of the persons to whom
summons were issued appeared for cross examination coupled with the fact
that the assessee failed to offer any reasonable explanation on merits of the
hardcore evidences established the unholy nexus between the entry providers 35 and beneficiaries, and that for the service of providing accommodation entries
hefty commission was charged from the beneficiaries by entry providers which
had been disclosed by some of them and offered to tax and once service was
provided for money, a contractual nexus was created between the service
providers and the beneficiary which could not be easily broken. Therefore, the
request for cross examination and non compliance of summons exposed the
unnatural bonding between the assessee and entry operators being used by
the assessee to thwart income tax proceedings in the name of natural justice.
The A.O. also observed that no natural justice required that there should be kind
of a formal cross examination which is a procedural justice and is governed by
rule of evidence, reference was made to the following case laws: Therefore the cross examination was not relevant and not necessary for the
finalization of the assessment. The A.O. also held that the pattern of movement
of funds for layering, non existence of genuine business activities of such
investors etc. coupled with the fact that the assessee failed to produce the
investor for examination could safely lead to conclusion that share capital /
premium received from companies against which there was no direct evidence
was also taxable under section 68 . The reliance was placed on the following
case laws: 153A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 139 , section 147 , section
 148 , section 149 , section 151 and section 153 , the case of a person where a
 search is initiated under section 132 or books of account, other documents or any
 assets are requisitioned under section 132A after the 31st day of May, 2003, the
 Assessing Officer shall- (a) issue notice to such person requiring him to furnish within such period as
 may be specified in the notice, the return of income in respect of each
 assessment year falling within six assessment years referred to in clause (b), in the
 prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such
 other particulars as may be prescribed and the provisions of this Act shall, so far
 as may be, apply accordingly as if such return were a return required to be
 furnished under section 139 ; (b) assess or reassess the total income of six assessment years immediately
 preceding the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which such
 search is conducted or requisition is made: III vs. Kabul Chawla [(2016) 380 ITR 573 (Delhi)] wherein it has been clearly held
that completed assessments can be interfered with by Ld Assessing Officer while
making assessment under section 153A only on basis of some incriminating
material unearthed during course of search which was not produced or not
already disclosed or made known in course of original assessment. While
delivering the aforesaid judgement Their Lordships have analyzed the provisions
of Section 153A as following:- > Sanjay Aggarwal vs Deputy Commissioner of Income -tax, Central Circle -5, New Delhi [(2014) 150ITD 692 (Delhi-Trib)]
> Smt Rashmi Wadhwa vs. DCIT, Central Circle-8, New Delhi [order dated
18.01.2016 in ITA No. 5184/Del/2014 passed by the Hon'ble ITAT Delhi Bench', New
Delhi; > M/s Siriago Pharma (P) Ltd. vs. DCIT, Central Circle-3, Jaipur [order dated
 13.01.2016 in ITA No. 1010/JPI/2013 passed by the Hon'ble ITAT Jaipur Bench,
 Jaipur; > Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax, Central Circle 23 vs. Sh. Himanshu B. Kanakia [order dated 18.01.2016 in ITA No. 3187/Mum/2014 passed by the Hon'ble ITAT
 "H"Bench ", Mumbai. (9) In particular, it may be noted that the jurisdictional Chandigarh Bench of the
 Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal in the case of Mala Builders (P) Ltd vs ACIT,
 Central Circle -II, Chandigarh vide order dated 23/08/2016 in ITA Nos. 433 to 437
 of 2014 has also unequivocally affirmed the above interpretation of law. It is respectfully prayed that the above ground may kindly be adjudicated in the
 light of the submissions made above. 20. As regards to the merits of the case relating to the addition by invoking
the provisions of Section 68 of the Act the submissions of the assessee had been
reproduced by the Ld. CIT(A) at page no. 124 to 154 of the assessment order,
the same are reproduced verbatim as under: Term Capital Gains earned by the Appellant were allegedly not genuine and the
result of alleged sham transactions. (7) While passing the impugned assessment order the Ld. Assessing Offer has
relied solely upon the findings of the Investigation Wing and information that he
came to be in the know of from other sources and has not carried out any
independent enquiry on his own thereby indicating, to some extent, a non-
application of mind. (8) At the outset, it is submitted that the shares of the companies on which
LTCG has been earned were allotted to the Appellant by way of a preferential
allotment or directly purchased from the open market and were subsequently
credited to the Appellant's DEMAT account. Moreover, their sale (undisputedly
after being held by the Appellant for a period of more than twelve months) was
effected through a broker registered on a recognized Stock Exchange and
Securities Transaction Tax was duly paid on the transaction. The sale proceeds for
the sale of shares were received through normal and regular banking channels
from the stock broker through whom the shares had been sold (who, in turn,
received the same from the Stock Exchange through its designated payout
mechanism) and stood duly credited to the Appellant's Bank Account(s). (9) In order to evidence the said transactions, copies of share purchase
documents, DEMAT account, share certificates, contract notes and bank
statements highlighting the relevant entries regarding payments made against
the purchase of share and receipts against sale of shares and ledger accounts of
the Appellant in the books of the Broker through whom the shares have been sold
were duly filed before the Ld. Assessing Officer and are again being enclosed
herewith. (10) In this connection, before proceeding further, Your Honour's kind
attention is invited to the provisions of Section 10(38) of the Act as per which "any
income arising from the transfer of a long-term capital asset, being an equity
share in a company or a unit of an equity-oriented fund where (a) the transaction of sale of such equity share or unit is entered on or after the
date on which Chapter VII of the Finance (No 2) Act, 2004 comes into force; and (b) such transaction is chargeable to securities transaction tax under that
Chapter. shall not form part of the total income." (11) The above section provides that any long-term capital gain arising from
the
transfer of equity shares shall not form part of the total income provided the twin
conditions referred in Section 10(38) viz the transaction having been entered into
on or after 1st October, 2004 and Securities Transactions Tax (STT) having been
duly paid thereon are cumulatively satisfied. In the given case, the transactions
giving rise to the LTCG entered by the Appellant duly comply with the said
conditions specified in Section 10(38) of the Act in as much as while they have
been entered in the F/Y 2011-12 i.e. much after 1st October, 2004 (the date on
which the provisions came into force) they were also chargeable to Securities
Transaction Tax (STT) which fact also stands duly documented and is not
disputed. Accordingly, the LTCG earned by the Appellant are undisputedly
covered by the provisions of Section 10(38) of the Act and will therefore not be a
part of his total income. (12) It should be noted and strongly emphasized here that any long-term
capital gain arising from the transfer of equity shares in a company which fulfils
the aforesaid conditions specified in Section 10(38) of the Act cumulatively would
not form a part of the total income. It cannot be over-emphasized, to any extent
or degree, that the Act (as amended from time to time and for the time being in
force) being an independent sovereign statute should be read, interpreted and
implemented "only" with reference to the conditions prescribed therein and
reference or extrapolation to any other statute/rule/regulatory body even
miniscule is permissible only if expressly mandated by the relevant provisions of
the Act. To put it differently any reference to any law, rule or
even the results of any investigation carried out by any other body cannot be
used/referred to, unless expressly and specifically permitted while administering
the provisions of the Act It should be noted that the Act is a fiscal statute enacted
by the Parliament to provide a framework for the levy and collection of taxes on
income and providing the administrative and judicial apparatus relating thereto
as opposed to it being an instrument of public policy and accordingly its reach,
functions, applicability and jurisdiction should be limited thereto. (13) The provisions of Section 10(38) of the Act also need to be viewed in
conjunction with the manner of functioning of the securities market, in particular
stock exchanges. With the advent of online-trading, the trades on any stock-
exchange (NSE/BSE etc) are conducted online through a registered broker on the
respective exchange. The entire dealing in securities takes place electronically
whereby there is no physical contact/communication and all the transactions
get consummated through online matching of the bids and pffers of the
respective parties viz buyers or sellers. The securities traded, being invariably held
in De-materialized (DEMAT) form, are transferred from/to the accounts of the
relevant parties involved and the accounts (Delivery of shares as well as financial)
are settled inter-se brokers and with their clients, both with respect to the delivery
of shares and settlement of accounts due as per in the mechanism of the
concerned exchange. It may be mentioned here that the securities markets
function with the framework of the rules/regulations/procedures of the relevant
exchange and also under the strict regulation, control and monitoring of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India, statutory body which functions as the
market regulator and watchdog. (14) With the above background, albeit brief, on the functioning of the stock
exchanges, and the fact of the manner, mode and procedure for the purchase
of shares having not been disputed, it may be mentioned here that the shares in
question sold, were of a listed company, and were sold at the prevailing rates
through the Bombay Stock Exchange Online Trading (BOLT) platform of the
Bombay Stock Exchange and all the payments against the same were received
through account payee cheques/RTGS from the stock broker, through whom the
shares were sold, who, as already stated above, in turn received the payment
from the stock exchange as per the specified designated payment mechanism.
It may be mentioned that under the online web-based trading platforms of
the relevant exchanges as per the applicable, recognized and prevalent
procedures and practices, the broker only acts as the intermediary in the online
market place where, in the absence of any physical interaction between the
parties, the identity of the counter- party (whether buyer or seller) is not available
and is consequently also not known to the party (ies) entering into the transaction
thereby almost completely eliminating the possibility of any collusion between the
parties. The entire transaction is documented and evidenced by contract
notes/bills of the relevant brokers issued in the form and in a manner as
prescribed by the regulatory authorities. (15) In such a regulated and formalized scenario, the possibility of rigged
trading to generate allegedly bogus LTCG accommodation through a syndicate
of accommodation entry operators through dummy entities was not only
negligible, but well-nigh impossible. (16) Carrying on the above argument further it should be noted here that the
transactions were entered into by the Appellant as an investor with a view to
earn profit from the appreciation, whether long term/short term, in the price of
the underlying shares. The Appellant did not have any kind or degree of
relationship/ or control with/over the said companies, save as that of a passive
investor, and neither was he involved in the management thereof at any point of
time what to talk of its capital market operations or influencing to any degree or
extent its stock market prices. The transactions were entered into as a stock
market investor on the basis of information available, the Appellant's perception 44 and anticipation as to future price movements, performance of the Company
etc. and as soon as in his opinion they reached a particular level, considered as
optimal, the same were divested. The objective of the Appellant was to keep a
track of the prices of the securities only, which formed the sole pivot for all his
actions related thereto. (17) It may be submitted that in the case of the Appellant, the acquisition of
shares, through a preferential allotment/purchase from the open market and
which were subsequently duly credited to his DEMAT account, stands duly and
comprehensively documented. Further, the sales of the securities took place
through a registered broker on the NSE/BSE in accordance with the prescribed
regulatory procedures, rules and applicable laws whereby both the limbs of the
transaction vis purchase and sale of shares gets duly authenticated. The
transactions were also, in all cases, concluded through regular banking channels.
The said facts and circumstances, though not relevant from the point of view of
determining the taxability or otherwise of the Capital Gains under the Act, are
decisive determinants as to the genuineness and validity of the transactions and
their being in compliance with all the applicable relevant statutory provisions,
rules, procedures and practices. (18) A large part of the Ld Assessing Officer's arguments are based on the
perceived and alleged price-manipulation and rigging through a perceived
arrangement between various parties/brokers and individuals. Given the above
discussion on the functioning of stock-exchanges, it should be noted that since
the Appellant, who is just an investor and a minor player on the stock exchange
was not only but also could not be aware of the person/entity buying the shares
there was no way formal, informal or even collusive, what to talk of legal whereby
he could have any control to ensure that the shares could be sold to a particular
person/entity or to any price manipulation therein. In such a regulated and
formalized scenario, the possibility of rigged trading to generate allegedly bogus
LTCG accommodation through a syndicate of accommodation entry operators
through dummy entities is not only negligible, but well-nigh impossible. (19) With the above background the various, arguments both legal and
factual, garnered by the Ld Assessing Officer in support of his action are being
countered separately and seriatim as under: - termed extraneous and largely irrelevant, factors and circumstances to hold that
the LTCG earned from the alleged penny stocks is actually "Income from
undisclosed sources". The factorstaken into account while arriving at the
aforesaid conclusion include the following :- The Appellant cannot be faulted for relying on a commercial proposition which
was duly compliant with law, including approval of SEBI and which has resulted in
huge profits. A large part of the arguments of the Learned Assessing Officer are
based on the apparently unrealistic high rate of returns and supernormal profits
ignoring the fact that the rate of return is a function of various factors on only
some of which an entity/person can have some control. The fact of a high
rate of returns should not, by itself, prejudice the mind of any person while judging
the transaction. (ix) To disregard the activities conducted by a Company as dummy when its
entire spectrum of activities has been pre-scrutinized and approved by various
agencies, including the capital markets regulator SEBI would be disregarding the
functioning of bodies operating under a law enacted by the Parliament of India.
It may be noted that actual activities, both in nature and quantum, are bound
to vary, sometimes even widely, from that forecasted/planned and the benefit of
hindsight cannot be used to negate the results therefrom. (x) In this connection it is also vehemently submitted that while there is no
statistically acceptable definition of the term "penny stocks", the said findings/
investigations/ recommendations cannot ipso-facto and unilaterally be applied
to the Appellant since there is no evidence of any degree, or form whatsoever
that he was a part of any organized system whereby artificial long term capital
gains were created through manipulative means. The said findings, if any, cannot
be unilaterally and in the absence of concrete authoritative evidence, 47 extrapolated to apply to the Appellant. Moreover, the various
documents/reports/findings/order have been relied upon by the Ld Assessing
Officer only generally and no specific case has been made out against the
Appellant. There is not an iota of evidence to suggest that the Appellant
indulged in the price rigging since he was neither connected with the alleged
unusual price movement of shares nor there is any concrete evidence of his
complicity in this regard and there is no allegation of any wrong -doing with
regard to the Appellant. (xi) The efforts of the Ld Assessing Officer, rather unfairly, seek to conjure a
negative image with respect to "penny stocks". In fact globally, in the context of
the working of the securities markets and in the normally used and colloquially
accepted terminology of people trading/advising in securities, "penny stocks" are
those which trade at a very low price and have very low market capitalization
whereby although there is a high-risk, the probability of a rapid upside and the
opportunity to gain from even a small rise in price is very high. In this situation, it is
a common practice among investors to look for suitable (penny) stocks where
the possibility of earning higher returns with a comparatively lower investment is
very high. Such an investment behavior, although somewhat risky, and not
generally recommended by conservative investment advisors, is not unusual or
unheard of and does not carry the taint of illegality or wrong doing in any
manner. Accordingly, it would not be correct to look at any transaction in the so
called "penny stocks" with even a slightly suspicious or slanted view since not only
are they perfectly legal but also can be a part of any traders/investors legitimate
portfolio. In fact, to better appreciate the legality and legitimacy of trading in
"penny stocks" it should be noted that the respected national daily "Economic
Times", which has the widest circulation among economic newspapers in the
Country, carries out a weekly survey of penny stocks vis-a-vis their price trends,
market capitalization etc. (xii) In this connection it is also submitted that the provisions of the Act must be
implemented administered and interpreted only with reference to its specific
provisions and any income-tax authority is estopped from stepping into the shoes
of any assessee so as to question its rationality, prudence or acceptability from a
common-sense point of view. So long as any action/transaction meets the
specific conditions laid down in the Act an attempt to seek to negate it or
interpret it by applying the yardsticks of rationality, prudence etc. which in any
case are highly and extremely subjective, would not meet the ends of justice and
basic tenets of judicial interpretation/ tax administration. The same argument
would hold good regards variation in the volume of transactions in the shares of
the companies on different dates, over which again an Assessee has no control
whatsoever. It should be again emphasized, even at the cost of umpteen repetitions, that the
Assessee has only transacted in the shares of the said companies to the limited
extent as an investor with a view to benefit from the long-term appreciation in the
price of underlying shares with absolutely no control decisive or even persuasive
or say, even minuscule or notional say in the management thereof, what to say in
its share market price. (xiii) It should be noted here that the Ld Assessing Officer has not disputed any
part of the transaction relating to the purchase of shares in any manner -whether
payment, allotment, conversion or any other aspect/limb related thereto. His
entire case, almost solely, rests on the procedure for sale and the alleged, 48 somewhat conjectural, manipulation in the sale thereof and other
circumstantial/third-party evidence, the entire gamut of which is being negated
hereinafter. Notwithstanding the said arguments, it should be noted that any
action based and conclusion drawn on a partial view of the entire transaction,
where the other part has not been disputed, even microscopically, can only be
of questionable quality. B Documentary evidence gathered during search, statements of entry/exit
provides and Investigation of PIT (Inv) Kolkata and Mumbai (i) At the outset the charge that the Appellant had been the beneficiary of
allegedly bogus LTCG entries is vehemently denied. The LTCG arising to the
Appellant arose from genuine transactions carried out in accordance with the
prescribed procedures and duly compliant with the relevant regulatory laws and
regulations. (ii) The action of the Ld. Assessing Officer relies, almost solely, on independent
search and survey operations carried out by the Department on some entities,
alleged entry operators, the findings of the Investigation Wing and orders passed
by SEBI whereby it has been concluded generally that the huge capital gains
earned within a very short period of time, by investing in a penny stock whose
fundamentals/ financials had no support, was neither the result of a coincidence
nor of a genuine investment activity but allegedly created through a well
planned and executed scheme in which the company, the brokers and the
buyers and sellers of the scrip worked deliberately to achieve predetermined
objectives. The Ld. Assessing Officer has not made any independent enquiries in
this regard and has relied solely upon the information provided by the
Investigation Wing and that which came to his knowledge from other sources. (iii) The conclusion arrived at by the Ld Assessing Officer is based upon the
statements of different persons recorded by the Investigation Wing of the
Income-tax Department, during the course of separate search/survey
proceedings carried out on various persons unconnected with the Appellant at
various stages, geographical locations at different time periods. The Ld Assessing
Officer has rather erroneously stated that various evidences were gathered
during the course of search and seizure proceedings which, allegedly, prove that
the transactions resulting in LTCG were not genuine whereas the fact of the
matter is that no such evidence/material/ evidence was found during the course
of search at the premises of the Appellant. While the legal validity of the reliance
on such statements, being in violation of the principles of natural justice, is itself
disputed and argued separately, the specific arguments with respect to the
various securities are being dealt with as follows: - Alkesh Sharma and Sh. Suresh Gupta is vehemently denied since no credence
can be given to the statements given by Sh. RK Kedia. While it is once again
reiterated that no cash was paid to Sh. RK Kedia or his employees either directly
or through any intermediaries, it may be submitted that the stand taken by Shri RK
Kedia, in this regard, is also contradictory as is clear from the shifting stands taken
by him in his statements recorded on various dates viz. 22-02-2014, 20-03-2014,13-
06-2014 and his letters fded on 20-10-2014 and 26/03/2015. Moreover, a review of
the statement of Sh R K Kedia recorded on 13-06-2014 itself reveals inherent
inconsistencies in as much as with regard to companies mentioned at point no 3,
and 5 namely M/s Matra Kaushal Enterprises Ltd., Vishjyoti Trading Ltd. and P.S.
Infrastructure and Services Ltd. he has stated that he had arranged investment in
shares of these companies. However, with regard to the same companies at Q
no. 29 of the said statement, he has again and contradicted himself by replying
that he has never arranged any investment in the said companies. The rapidly
and radically shifting stands and the contradictions inherent in the statements
and letters fded by Sh R K Kedia cast serious questions as to the authenticity
thereof and decisively dent the extent to which reliance can be placed thereon. (i) Regarding the statement of Sh. Manish Arora, it is submitted that the
Appellant neither knows any person by the name ofSh. Manish Arora nor has any
dealing with him. While going through his statement, as provided by the Ld
Assessing Officer, it has been observed that no reference regarding M/s PIL has
been made therein. As such no adverse inference on the basis of his statement is
warranted with regard to the transactions of the Appellant in the shares of PIL. It is
also submitted that from a cursory look at the statements of Sh. Manish Arora as
provided by the Ld Assessing Officer, it seems that the statements have not been
given by him in a free and undisturbed mind but obviously under enormous
pressure and a state of extreme mental stress. The process of recording his
statement which started on 13-06-2014 continued right up to 09/07/2014 with only 51 small breaks in between. It needs to be appreciated that any human being
required to make a statement before investigating authorities for a period of
almost 25 days is bound to be under a lot of stress and psychological pressure
whereby the possibility of errors, contradictions and inconsistencies can definitely
arise casting a serious doubt on their accuracy/reliability and the extent of
reliance that can be placed thereon. (j) The action of the Ld Assessing Officer also relies to a large extent on the
statement ofSh. Omprakash Anandilal Khandelwal and Shri Radhey Shyam
Sharma, Manager of PIL. In this connection it is submitted as follows: - The Appellant has not paid any cash to Sh. RK Kedia, Pintu or SCS against sale of
shares of PIL. (p) The Ld Assessing Officer has also relied on the alleged cash trail of
unaccounted cash and alleged flow of unaccounted cash from the Appellant
and his family and group to SCS through Sh RK Kedia and Pintu. In this regard it is
again submitted that no cash has ever been paid to Sh RK Kedia or any of his
employees. Without prejudice to the said averments, it is submitted that the
transactions given in the cash trail relied upon by the Ld Assessing Officer pertain
to the period from 28-06-2011 to 27-08-2011, whereas in the case of the Appellant
and any of his family members, the last sale of shares of PIL was effected on 03-
05-2011. Accordingly, these transactions could by no stretch of imagination
pertain to the Appellant or any of his family members and the Ld Assessing
Officer's allegation that cash has been paid by the Appellant and his family
members to SCS through Sh. RK Kedia and Pintu is without any basis and drawing
any adverse inference on the basis of the same is not warranted in the facts and
circumstances of the case. (q) Regarding entries of commission alleged to be charged by Sh. RK Kedia from
the Appellant and his family members and entered at page no 43 of extract E-14
(Annexure A-27) seized in the case of Sh. RK Kedia, it is submitted that the
Appellant/his family members did not pay any commission / premium to Sh. RK
Kedia against the sale of shares of PIL. While Shri RK Kedia might have been
expecting some commission since he had advised the Appellant on making
investment in the shares of PIL and the Appellant had earned a handsome
amount from the same, the uncontroverted fact of the matter is that no such
commission was ever agreed to or paid to him. (r) With regard to the statements of Sh. Sanjay Kumar and Mr. Bishu fain, it is
submitted that the Appellant does not know any of these persons. Moreover,
while going through their statements, as provided to the Appellant by the Ld
Assessing Officer, it is clear that no adverse inference is warranted from their
statements as far as the transactions of the Appellant with regard to the shares of
PIL is concerned. (s) Without prejudice to the prima-facie arguments and averments listed out
above, it transpires that even factually, an analysis of trade data of the shares of
PIL, as provided by the Ld Assessing Officer, reveals that while there were 141
buyers against the total sale [shares of PIL by the Appellant effected through
BOLT platform, only 21 buyers (who purchased 58.49 lac shares out of total 80 lac
shares) are those whose name figure in the list of 212 companies alleged to have
been managed and controlled by the said SCS thereby striking decisively at the
root of the allegation of some kind a collusion between the Appellant and SCS. (t) With regard to Ld Assessing Officer's observations that an analysis of the timing
difference reveals that 48% of the trades were executed within one minute and
more than 71% orders were executed within five minutes of placing the order, it is
submitted that on a detailed analysis of such data, it has been observed that
even in the case of transactions of purchase of shares of PIL, by persons/entities
other than the entities alleged to be managed and controlled by SCS, a majority
of the orders were executed in less than five minutes in as much as 14.92 lac
shares out of 21.51 lac shares i.e. more than 69% were traded in less than 5
minutes of placing the order leading to the definite conclusion that no adverse
inference is warranted on the basis of the same. (u) It should also be noted that in an online mechanism, the matching of buyer
and seller could be instant wherein the intention of the various parties (whether 54 buyer or seller) is exhibited instantly and a willing counter party can react
instantly, within seconds, what to talk of minutes. Further since the entire system
operates in a virtual world, with no physical interaction between the counter
parties, the possibility of any collusion between the parties is completely ruled out
It should be noted that with the stock markets being open only for a limited
period, speed becomes essential to the execution of deals and in case of willing
buyer(s) and seller(s) the deals get consummated in seconds. The stock markets
operate on a real-time basis wherein the deal get transacted instantaneously
given the matching of the intentions of the buyers and seller exhibited in the
online market place. (v) Without prejudice to the Appellant's stand that given the fact that the shares
were sold on the online (BOLT) platform of BSE whereby he was and could not be
aware of the ultimate buyer of the shares, simply because of the fact that some
shares had been purchased by companies allegedly controlled/managed by
SCS cannot lead to any kind of adverse conclusions let alone collusion of
arrangement between SCS and the Appellant. The Appellant had sold the shares
of PIL during the period from 29-11-2010 to 03-05-2011 at different prices ranging
from Rs. 62.05 to Rs. 79.75 whereas the highest price of PIL, as per data
downloaded from the web site of Bombay Stock Exchange, was Rs 87.10 on 03-
03-2011. Even on the dates on which the Appellant had sold shares of PIL his
selling price was significantly less than the highest price of that particular date
e.g. on 03-03-2011, the Appellant sold the shares at Rs. 77.20 per share whereas
the highest market price on the same date was Rs. 87.10 per share. The said fact
also mitigates against any collusion/arrangement between the Appellant and
the management of PIL, since any arrangement would have ensured prior
information to the Appellant to enable him to make the maximum profit by selling
the shares at the highest price, which has not happened in the given case.
(II) BLUE CIRCLE SERVICES LTD, M/S DB (INTERNATIONAL) STOCK BROKERS LTD AND
UNISYS SOFTWARE AND HOLDING INDUSTRIES LTD. With respect to the LTCG earned by the Appellant from companies other than
PIL, as listed above the Ld Assessing Officer has apart from linking the share price
solely with their financials an aspect that has already been dealt with separately
in detail, also relied upon the statements ofSh R K Kedia/Manish Arora recorded in
the course of search on 13-06-2014 and subsequent proceedings as also on the
results of investigations/enquiries and statements recorded of various persons
such as S/Shri Jagdish Prasad Purohit, Anand Sharma, Deepak Patwari, Praveen
Agarwal, Pramod Ramdin Sharma, Umesh Singh, Pulak Bagchi, Chiranjit Mahanta,
Vishal Sharma, Natwar Lai Daga, Krishan Khadaria etc. In this connection the
various issues are being dealt with hereinafter with respect to all the companies
involved. (a) With regard to the reliance placed on the statements dated 19-10-2011,
12-02-2013, 17-12-2013 and 21-01-2015 of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit stating that
he was controlling and managing various companies through dummy directors
which are used for providing accommodation entries, it is submitted that
Appellant does not know any person by the name of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit
and is in no way connected with the affairs of the companies alleged to be
controlled and managed by him and the composition of the Board of Directors of
such company. (b) It is further observed that Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit has not stated that he
was providing any long-term capital gain accommodation entries through the
companies controlled and managed by him. Also, in none of the statements, Sh.
Jagdish Prasad Purohit has he mentioned the name of the Appellant or any of his
family members/group companies. Mere alleged admission on the part ofSh.
Jagdish Prasad Purohit that he had allegedly provided accommodation entries
to some beneficiaries cannot be prejudicially extrapolated to arrive at an inimical
decision adversely affecting the Appellant. (c) In particular with regard to the allegation/conclusion that Sh. Jagdish
Prasad Purohit was controlling and managing the affairs of Blue Circle Services
Ltd., it is submitted that as per the information collected online from the website
of the Ministry of the Corporate Affairs. Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit was not even a
director in Blue Circle Services Ltd. Moreover, on going through all the statements
of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit, it has been observed that no mention ofM/s Blue
Circle Services Ltd has been made in any of these statements. Sh. Jagdish Prasad
Purohit during the course of his statements has given a list of companies
controlled and managed by him, but the name of Blue Circle Services Ltd is
nowhere mentioned in such list nor has he made any statement with regard to
composition of Directors of the said company. (d) (e) The Appellant had merely invested in the shares of the various
companies and was in no way concerned/connected with the management
and day to day affairs of the same. An analysis/review of the statement ofSh.
Jagdish Prasad Purohit leads, according to the humble understanding of the
Appellant, to the uncontroverted conclusion that no adverse inference can be
drawn on the basis thereof. (f) The Ld Assessing Officer has also concluded and relied upon the alleged fact
that the share price of various companies was artificially jacked up by using
dummy entities/ individuals. While, at the outset, it is vehemently stated that the
Appellant was not aware of the activities of any of the entities / individuals
involved in such activity(ies), the question of him being connected/involved with
the activities of such to any degree or extent even miniscule does not arise. The
Appellant was not aware of the reasons for the increase in share price of Blue
Circle Services Ltd. As an investor in the shares Blue Circle Services Ltd., the
Appellant's sole objective was to keep a track of the share price movement with
a view to maximise the gains arising therefrom and accordingly drawing any
adverse inference merely on the basis of share price movement of the various
companies is not warranted in the facts and circumstances of the case. It may
be noted that as already discussed elsewhere, the securities market operates in a
volatile environment and the shares prices and their movements are the results of
an interplay of various factors, of which may not even enter public domain. (g) The Ld Assessing Officer has also placed reliance on the fact of the
apparently phenomenal rise in the prices of the shares compared to their
revenues/ operating results / assets base/ business health and the apparent
absence of any new development which promises bright future for the
shareholders which apparently defies logic of share trading pattern of primary or
secondary markets. The said argument goes against the basic grain, manner and
functioning of the capital market wherein price discovery of the underlying
security and its movement is the result of the complex interplay of a set of
intricate and diverse set of factors, sometimes mutually exclusive, sometimes
competing and sometimes even-conflicting and on almost all of whom an
investor has no control and of which revenues/operating results is just one solitary 56 factor. The movement of price on the stock exchanges and the underlying
indices are dependent on a host of factors including the general economic
sentiment, political situation, specific sectoral growth, liquidity, future growth
prospects, reputation of the promoters, industrial situation etc. all of which act in
tandem and correlation to determine the movement of prices. (h) In fact, in the modern day inter connected world wherein global linkages and
factors have acquired prominence, several intricate and even notional factors
come into play. The behavior of the stock exchanges is also influenced by global
sentiments and cues, Cross-border movement of funds, international political
developments, perception of FII's, cude prices, economic indices in various
countries across the globe, domestic as well as international political
developments and a host of other tangible/intangible/perceptual and even
sentimental factors. (i) An analysis of the security price movements of companies on the stock
exchange would make it clear that in no case have the prices been determined
solely or even majorly/predominantly by their sales/revenue/profits. In fact, even
companies in the same industry/sector, with similar profiles and operating in
almost identical environments can and do invariably exhibit extremely divergent
stock-market behavior as would be evident from the highly divergent P/E ratios of
companies listed in the securities markets. The Ld Assessing Officer has, through
graphical representations and charts relied on the apparent divergent trends in
the stock market prices of the impugned companies by ignoring the fact that
such trends are observed in all the companies on the stock exchange at some
point of time or the other. (j) With regard to the allegation that the share price chart movements of the
companies in question is typical of a listed paper company used forgiving
accommodation entries of bogus LTCG while it may be noted that the Appellant
was just an investor in the respective companies and had nothing to do with their
share price movement, even otherwise there is no accepted trend which can
reflect movement in share prices of such a nature which trend is just imaginary
arising from pre-conceived notions. (k) The Ld Assessing Officer while arising at the ultimate conclusion has sought to
place reliance on the statement of Sh. Deepak Patwari wherein he has allegedly
stated that he had traded in shares of listed penny stocks for helping and
providing LTCG accommodation entries. In this regard it is submitted that neither
does the Appellant know Sh. Deepak Patwari nor is he in any way
connected/concerned with his transactions/activities nor does his any relevance
with the case of the Appellant. Even so the Appellant has gone through his
statements as provided by the Ld Assessing Officer wherein it transpires that the
name of Blue Circle Services Limited does not find any mention in the list of shares
which he has stated to have purchased nor does the name of the Appellant or
any of his family members/group companies find mentioned in his above referred
statements thereby severely denting the reliance that can be placed thereon. (l) With regard to the reliance on the reliance placed by the Ld Assessing Officer
on the alleged statement of Sh. Praveen Aggarwal admitting that he was
controlling and managing the affairs of 200 paper entities through a number of
dummy directors for providing bogus LTCG accommodation entries, it is
submitted that the Appellant had no connection or dealing whatsoever with Sh.
Praveen Aggarwal or any of the directors of the companies alleged to be
managed and controlled by him. Even otherwise on going through the contents 57 of the statement ofSh. Praveen Aggarwal and his so called dummy directors, it
transpires that they have merely tried to explain some of their activities without
mentioning Appellant or any of his family members what to talk of any wrong
doing by him/them. Even no mention has been made by him with regard to
transacting on behalf of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit. Thus, no adverse inference is
warranted on the basis of their statements recorded at the back of the Assessee. (m) It should also be mentioned that in none of the statements of Sh Jagdish
Prasad Purohit, the name ofSh. R.K. Kedia or the Appellant or any of his family
members/group companies has been referred/mentioned. Also, no reference
ofSh. Praveen Aggarwal (who has allegedly helped in providing bogus LTCG
accommodation entries) has been made by Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit in his
statements recorded on oath. The Ld Assessing Officer has sought to draw an
adverse inference on the basis of statement of Sh. R.K. Kedia (which itself is
unreliable for the reasons mentioned above and discussed separately) and
certain documents seized during the course of search from the premises ofSh. R.K.
Kedia whereas nothing adverse against the Appellant has been found. In view of
the aforesaid submissions no adverse inference with regard to long term capital
gain earned by him on the sale of shares of various companies is warranted in the
facts and circumstances of the case. (n) The Appellant had sold the shares of the various companies online using BOLT
(Bombay Stock Exchange Online Trading) platform of a recognized Stock
exchange and the delivery of shares took place through his DEMAT account. The
entire sequence of transactions is based on a system of matching of bids and
offers on an online trading platform when the name of the counter party (i.e
seller/ purchaser of shares) is neither disclosed nor known to each other. The
Appellant was not/could not be aware of the person/ entity buying the shares
sold by him and he neither had nor could have any control that the shares could
be sold to a particular person/entity. An analysis/review of the statements of Sh.
Deepak Patwari and Praveen Aggarwal leads to the definite conclusion that no
adverse inference can be drawn on the basis of the same. (o) With regard to the reliance placed by the Ld Assessing Officer on the
statements of various brokers/sub-brokers/employees/associates of various broker
firms and directors of the companies alleged to be controlled and managed by
Sh. Praveen Aggarwal namely Pramod Ramdin Sharma, Umesh Singh, Pulak
Bagchi, Chiranjit Mahanta and Vishal Sharma, it is submitted that while the
Appellant does not know any of these persons and is not in any way connected
with their activities. A perusal of their statements reveals that they have merely
tried to explain the nature of activities/transactions carried out by them or their
clients. In their entire statements nothing has been stated regarding any wrong
doing by the Appellant and even the name of the Appellant or any of his family
members does not find mention in any of the said statements. (p) The Ld Assessing Officer has also relied upon the alleged cash transactions
recorded at page no. 18 to 23 and 26 of Annexure A-2 seized during the course
of search from the premises of Sh R K Kedia. In this connection, it is submitted that
none of the alleged cash transactions recorded on these pages pertain to the
Appellant even otherwise, and without prejudice, the aforesaid seven pages
pertain to the period from August, 2012 to October, 2012( i.e AY 2013-14) while in
the case of the Appellant the entire sale of shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd. was
effected during the F.Y 2011-12 (i.e. AY 2012-13) and accordingly, no comments is
required to be made with regard to said seized material. Further, as regards 58 reliance placed on Annexure A- 6 seized from the premises ofSh R K Kedia, the
same does not contain the name of the Appellant or any of his family members
and accordingly cannot be commented upon. (q) The Ld Assessing Officer has also relied heavily on the backup soft copy of the
data seized from the premises of Sh R.K. Kedia. In this connection, it is submitted
that the Appellant is not aware of any transactions/dealings between Sh. R. K.
Kedia and Sh. jagdish Prasad Purohit. As already stated earlier the Appellant does
not know any person by the name Sh. jagdish Prasad Purohit. Ongoing through
the transactions in the said data, as appearing at the path "G:\Back
Office[12]7.3gb\BackOfficeRadha[12]Data\ Present Data\KISHAN_FA" it is
observed that it is a month wise ledger account in the name of "Purohit Ji" Jagdish Prasad Purohit had no locus standi vis-a-vis with respect to Blue Circle
Services Ltd. as he was neither a director in the said company nor has he made
any statement with regard to managing/controlling the affairs of Blue Circle
Services Ltd. Any transaction between Sh. R.K. Kedia and Jagdish Prasad Purohit,
if any, cannot lead to drawing any adverse conclusion with regard to the
Appellant It is once again reiterated that no cash has been paid by the Assessee
to Sh. R.K. Kedia, Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit or anybody else against the sale of
any shares. Further, even Mr. R.K. Kedia during the course of his statement
recorded on 20-03-2014, has stated in reply to question no.5 that he just knew Mr.
Purohit as friend, but no cash was delivered through him. (s) With regard to the transactions recorded in excel sheet at path G:\Back
Office\back office[12]7.3gb\Back Office Radha[12]Data\Present Data\Blue,
about the sale of shares of M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd, G:\Back Office\back
office 128mb[2]\Back Office 128[2]Data\DeIeted Data\[0000050] in respect of
sale of shares of M/s Unisys Software & Holdings Ltd and G:\Back Office
128mb[12]\Back Ice 128mb[12]\data\[000107] in respect of sale of shares ofDB
(International Stock Brokers Ltd it is submitted that the Appellant is neither aware
of the purpose of recording details in an excel sheet nor connected/concerned
with the maintenance thereof. Simply because some transactions match with sale of these shares by the
Appellant cannot lead to any adverse conclusion. Although the investment in the
shares was made on the recommendation / advice ofSh. R. K. Kedia, the sale of
such shares was made through a stock broker registered with Bombay Stock
Exchange. The data of such sale could have been obtained from Bombay Stock
Exchange or the stock broker through whom the sale of shares was made. (t) With regard to the transactions recorded in excel sheet at path G:\Back
Ofpce\back officel28mb[2]\Back Office 128mb[2]Data\Deleted Data\Blue
Circle3, in respect of sale and purchase of shares of M/s Blue Circle Services Ltd. it 59 is submitted that as already mentioned above, the investment in shares of Blue
Circle Services Ltd. was made on the recommendation/advice of Sh. R. K. Kedia
and the Appellant had earned a handsome profit therefrom . As such Mr. Kedia
might have been expecting some commission / advisory fee and prepared the
excel sheet for the calculation of his fees. However, no such fees or commission
was ever agreed or paid to him and the calculations are only imaginary. (u) The conclusive allegations on the basis of said data that unaccounted funds
ofRs. 123,82,66,872/- were paid through Sh. R K. Kedia for taking bogus LTCG
accommodation entries of Rs. 120,88,49,203/- against the sale of share of Blue
Circle Services Ltd. and unaccounted commission in the form of cash ofRs.
7,85,75,198/- was paid @ 6.5% is based merely on suspicion, surmises and
conjectures and is against facts. The Appellant had never paid any cash for
obtaining any accommodation entry against the sale of shares of Blue Circle
Services Ltd. As already mentioned above no commission was ever paid or
agreed to be paid to Sh. R K. Kedia against the sale of shares of Blue Circle
Services Ltd. Whatever brokerage was paid on the sale of shares of Blue Circle
Services Ltd. was paid to the stock brokers through whom such shares were sold. It
is therefore requested that no adverse inference on the basis of data seized from
the premises of Sh. R K. Kedia and recorded on the aforementioned path is
warranted in the facts and circumstances of the case. (v) As regards the conclusion drawn by the Ld Assessing Officer, on the basis of
trade data of Blue Circle Services Ltd., that out of total sale ofRs. 170 Crores by
the assessee and his family members of the shares of Blue Circle Services Ltd., Rs.
60,12,46,848/- was received as payouts from the paper entities controlled and
managed by Sh. Praveen Aggarwal, as already stated above, the Appellant
neither the Assessee knows any person by the name ofSh. Praveen Aggarwal nor
is in no way connected or concerned with the transactions entered into by the
companies alleged to be controlled and managed by Praveen Aggarwal.
Moreover, as already mentioned above, the entire sale of shares of Blue Circle
Services Ltd. was affected through BOLT platform of BSE and the Appellant was
neither be aware of the person/ entity buying the shares sold nor had/could have
any control that the shares could be sold to a particular person/entity. (w) Without prejudice to the averments made above, it is submitted that the Ld
Assessing Officer has drawn an adverse conclusion on the basis of the fact that
the alleged paper companies had purchased shares worth 37% of the total value
of shares sold by the Appellant meaning thereby that shares worth 63% of the
value of shares sold by the Appellant were purchased by other
entities/individuals. The mere fact that only shares worth 37% of the value of
shares sold by the Appellant were purchased by the alleged paper companies
need not work to the detriment of the Appellant as he was in no way
concerned/connected with their transactions/activities, (x) With regard to conclusion drawn by the Ld Assessing Officer, on the basis of
Annual Report of the impugned companies that they were allegedly not doing
any meaningful business activity, it is submitted that the investment was made on
the basis of future expansion plans of the companies as available either in the
public domain or through personal interactions such as the letters of offer,
corporate profile, industry scenarios, future expansion plans, etc. Moreover, since
the share prices of the various companies were relatively low the possibility of
gains through a substantial and rapid rise in the prices was quite high. The entire 60 purchase of shares made by the Appellant was through a registered stock broker
using online trading platform of BSE and the shares were subsequently, credited
to his DEMAT account. The payments against the purchase of shares were made
through account payee cheques/RTGS in favour of the registered stock broker
through whom such shares were purchased. In this connection, copies of
contract notes/sale bills evidencing the purchase of shares, allotment letters,
documents evidencing conversion of share warrants etc. as applicable and
copies of relevant bank statements duly highlighting the transactions regarding
payment for purchase of shares of the various companies were duly filed before
the Ld Assessing Office and are again being enclosed herewith which would
prove the genuineness and authenticity of the said transaction beyond doubt. (y) The Ld Assessing Officer has also sought to conclude again rather unfairly and
unjustily that the shares were offloaded to the alleged beneficiaries, once the
share price reached the desired level and thereafter the share price started
falling. In this connection, it is submitted that in particular the shares of Unisys
Software & Holdings Ltd were sold by the Appellant during the period 14-03-2012
to 08-06-2012 and delivered through his DEMAT account at prices ranging from Rs
197.80 to Rs 224.60 per share. During the said period the share price of Unisys
Software & Holdings Ltd was showing a falling trend and in fact had fallen from Rs
219.80 to Rs 197.80 i.e. the Appellant sold the shares during the period when the
share price was failing on a daily basis. However, after 08-06-2012, the share price
of the company again started rising and went to as high as Rs. 313/- as on 13-02-
2013 i.e. almost 8 months after the sale of shares of Unisys Software & Holdings Ltd
by Appellant. Even after one year of sale of shares by the Appellant i.e. on 07-06-
2013 the closing price of the shares of Unisys Software & Holdings Ltd was 252.90
i.e. an increase of almost Rs 55 per share. Similarly, the shares of DB (International)
Stock Brokers Ltd were sold by the Appellant during the period 29-07-2011 to 03-
10-2011 at prices ranging from Rs. 93.95 to 100.95 per share. Subsequently, prices
of the shares of DB (International) Stock Brokers Ltd also remained almost stable
for the next two and a half years. Accordingly, the allegation of any kind of
collusion, price-rigging/manipulation with respect to the transaction can be ruled
out since the same borne by the share prices movement subsequently and
considering the fact that if such an allegation were true the Appellant would
have sold the shares at the highest price and not intermittently at various levels in
a falling market

(z) With regard to the Ld Assessing Officer's allegation and subsequent conclusion
that various entry operators like Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit, Sh. R.K. Kedia, Sh.
Praveen Aggarwal, Sh. Anand Sharma Sh. Deepak Patwari, Shri Natwar Lai Daga,
Shri Kishan Khadaria and Sh S N Daga formed a syndicate for arranging bogus
exempt LTCG accommodation entries in the shares of various companies, it is
submitted that the Appellant is in no way connected with their transactions/
activities. (aa) With regard to the Ld Assessing Officer's allegation that M/s DB
(International) Stock Broker Ltd. is controlled and managed by known
accommodation entry operators Sh. Shiv Narayan Daga and Sh. Natwar Lai
Daga, it is submitted that the Appellant does not know any person by the name
of Sh. Shiv Narayan Daga and Sh. Natwar Lai Daga and is in no way connected
with the affairs of the companies alleged to be controlled and managed by
them and with regard to the composition of the directors of such companies.
Moreover, the Appellant has not been provided with any statement of Sh. Shiv 61 Narayan Daga and Sh. Natwar Lai Daga nor was any reference to any statement
made by the said persons alluded to in the show cause notice issued by the Ld
Assessing Officer. It is once again reiterated that without prejudice to the
submissions made above, the Appellant was just an investor in the shares ofDB
(International) Stock Broker Ltd. and was in no way connected with the day to
day affairs of the said company. (ab) It is once again reiterated that the Appellant was neither aware nor could
be aware of the person/ entity buying the shares sold by him and there was no
way he could control the sale of shares to ensure their sale to a particular
person/entity. The entire sale of shares was affected through the BOLT platform of
the BSE, a web-based trading system: Accordingly, drawing any adverse inference on the basis of SEBI investigation
 report merely because the Appellant had earned a handsome capital gain and
 sale of certain shares which were investigated by SEBI is not warranted in the
 facts and circumstances of the case. (ah) In this connection, it is also submitted that no adverse conclusion can be
 drawn merely on the basis of documents seized, evidence collected, statements
 made or entries found in the books of accounts of any third person over whom
 an individual or entity may not have any control. The entries in the books of
 accounts of any third person cannot be solely the basis for arriving at any
 conclusion with respect to the Appellant case. In this connection reliance is
 placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Central
 Bureau of Investigation vs V.C. Shukla & Ors [(1998) AIR 1406 (SC)[ wherein the
 said conclusion has been emphatically drawn (ai) The said view has also been
 affirmed followed by various Courts of law across the Country in a series of
 decisions asfollows:- facie evidence is available the revert to secondary evidence on the basis of
preponderance of probabilities is not warranted. (b) The Ld. Assessing Officer has also placed strong reliance on circumstantial
evidences and test of human probabilities by relying upon the decisions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal vs CIT [214 ITR 801 (1995)
(SC)]. In this connection, it is humbly submitted that both these issues viz the test
of human probabilities and reliance on circumstantial evidence would come into
play only when the basic test of direct and factual evidence fails. In the instant
case, there is no ground whatsoever to doubt the factual, basic and direct
evidence furnished and accordingly the question of relying upon circumstantial
evidence and probability theory does not arise. (c) The doctrine of substance over form, through undoubtedly very much a
part of tax jurisprudence, comes into application only in cases where there is any
definite/ concrete/ overt/ evidence of wrong - doing/ malicious act with respect
to a particular assessee which clearly is not the situation in the given situation.
Investigation / studies/exercises undertaken with a broad global perspective, on
a macro level cannot by themselves by telescoped, in the absence of any
compelling evidences and circumstances to individual assesses specially when
the name of a specific person does not find a direct mention therein. (d) (d) In the instant case, there is, if at all, a suspicion that the amounts
received are allegedly unexplained. In this connection, it is respectfully submitted
that it is a settled law that suspicion, howsoever strong, cannot take place of
proof and there can be no addition on the basis of mere suspicion. Reference, in
this regard, may be made to the following decisions: - > Kamal Kishore Aggarwal & Sons (HUF) vs ACIT, CC-11 [(ITA No.
504/DeI/2011)]; > Shri Kamlesh Mundra vs ITO, Ward 19(2)(3), Mumbai [(ITA No.
6248/Mum/2012)]; > Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax vs Asha V Mehta [(ITA No.
6405/Mum/2012 & 6998/Mum/2012)]. > CIT vs Udit Narain Agarwal (judgement dated 12, 2012 in the Hon'ble High
Court of Allahabad in IT Appeal No. 560 of2009)]; > CIT vsSmtSumitra Devi [(2014) 49 taxmann.com 37 (Rajasthan)];
> Commissioner of Income Tax vs Smt Pushpa Malpani [(2012) 20 taxmann.com
597 (Raj)]; > ACIT vs SmtSumitra Gaur [(2012)27 taxmann.com 107 (jodhpur - Trib);
> ACIT, Mathura Vs. Smt Kela Devi Agarwal [(ITA No. 75/Agr/2010)];
> DCIT, Mathura Vs Smt Meenakshi Agrwal [(ITA No. 265/Agr/2009)]; > Sri PaduchuriJeevan vs ITO, Ananthapur [(ITA No. 452/Hyd/2015)];
 > ITO, Agra vs Smt Pallavi Garg[(ITA No. 192/Agra/2009 and CO No.
 34/Agra/2009 )]; > Income -tax Officer, Ward -2, Nizamabad vs Smt Aarti Mittal [(2014) 41
 taxmann.com 118 (Hyd-Trib)]; > ACIT, Mathura vs M/s Ram Chand Keshav Dev (HUF) [(ITA No.
 233/Agra/2010)]; > Ms Farrah Market v ITO, Mumbai [(ITA No. 3801/Mum/2011)];
 > ITO vs Indravadan Jain (HUF) [(ITA No. 4861,5168/Mum/2014)];
 > Income Tax Officer vs Smt Neelam Chawla [(ITA No. 5335/Del/2004 )];
 > Income Tax Officer vs Smt Bibi Rani Bansal [(2011) 44 SOT 500 (Agra) (TM)]; (21) In view of the above scenario, the charge that the impugned long-term
 capital gains arising on the sales of shares of various companies are bogus is
 denied, both factually and legally. As already stated above the transactions,
 being fully compliant with the provisions of the Act and the other applicable
 regulatory provisions, no cause arises to treat the same as bogus by ignoring
 their actual and true nature. Further since the other arguments and
 circumstantial evidences have also been countered and dealt with above, it is
 earnestly prayed that the additions being based on faulty premises, suspect
 logic and an unsustainable interpretation/implementation of legal provisions
 coupled with serious procedural lacunae deserves to be deleted." 21. The assessee also submitted to the Ld. CIT(A) that the A.O. gravely erred in
framing assessment by ignoring the principles of natural justice and not affording
any opportunity to cross examine the person whose statement were relied, as
under: examine the said persons on the appointed day, as informed by the Ld Assessing
 Officer, wherein none of the said persons turned up. The Ld Assessing Officer has
 held that the insistence on cross-examination was only meant to thwart income
 tax proceedings which conclusion is not only unjust and decidedly, unfair but, a
 misinterpretation of law and exhibits an utter disregard for the principles of
 natural justice which form the bedrock of any legal proceedings in particular
 those relating toIncome tax which are unquestionably quasi-judicial in nature. (3) The failure of the appointed persons to appear for cross-examination on
 the appointed date has prompted the Ld Assessing Officer to, again, rather 66 unfairly and unjustly, conjure up an imaginary "unnatural nexus" between the
 Appellant, and the alleged entry provider, with absolutely no evidence to back
 up his conclusion. The said contention is exponentially and conclusively
 damaging to the Appellant since no such evidence exists to even remotely
 suggest, let alone prove such a nexus. Apart from routine financial dealings,
 there are no circumstances even suggestive of such a situation and to conclude
 the same is again, to say the least, extremely prejudicial to the Appellant. The
 failure of the said persons to appear on the appointed date cannot be
 attributable to the Appellant and does not in any manner allow the Ld Assessing
 Officer to deviate from the principles of natural justice so integral to any income-
 tax proceedings. (4) The positive intent and desire to comply with the laws and cooperate
 with the Department was evident from the presence of the Appellant (through
 his/her authorized representative) on the day appointed for this purpose and
 even at all stages of the assessment proceedings. Instead of appreciating the
 Appellant's action, his spirit of cooperation and the injustice caused to him by
 the denial of his rights, the Ld Assessing Officer has sought to conjure up an
 imaginary nexus to deprive him of his basic rights and in fact thwart the
 principles of natural justice and on these grounds, itself any degree of reliance
 on the same stands on a weak footing and any conclusion drawn therefrom
 deserves to be negated to prevent further miscarriage of justice since the entire
 exercise has made in gross violation of the principles of natural justice and is void
 ab-initio. (5) In this connection, Your Honour's attention is invited to the following
 judicial pronouncements which lend support to the above contentions put
 forward on behalf of the Appellant: - > Prakash Chand Nahta v. Commissioner of Income -Tax [(2008) 301 ITR 134
 (MP)]; It is respectfully submitted that the appeal may kindly be decided in the
 light of the submission made above." 22. The Ld. CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assesse summarized
the facts of the case and observation of the A.O. at page no. 157 to 168 of the
impugned order which we have already discussed in the former part of this
order therefore the same are not reproduced herein. 23. As regards to the issue agitated by the assessee of initiation of
proceedings under section 153A of the Act in the absence of incriminating
material found during the course of search the Ld. CIT(A) observed that the
disclosure letter submitted by the assessee on 06/03/2014 had given specific
details of disclosure made amounting to Rs. 159.61 Crores on account of sale of
shares of M/s PIL which tantamount to admittance that they had taken
accommodation entries from SCS. He further observed that the disclosure of the
assessee group was based on the seized documents in the search of the SCS as
well as Shri R.K. Kedia who were searched simultaneously with the assessee
group and the surrender of income under section 132(4) of the Act was based
on the documents seized therefore those documents were certainly
incriminating in nature. Ld. CIT referred to the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court in the case of Smt. Daya Wanti .... Vs. CIT dt. 27/10/2016 and in the case
of CIT Vs. Harjeev Aggarwal dt. 10/03/2016 respectively. Ld. CIT(A) was of the
view that the evidences found during the search of SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia
revealed that the undisclosed income was shown in the guise of LTCG by the
assessee group and that One Time (OT) entries were taken by the group as
share capital from various entry providers including SCS which was arranged
through Shri R.K. Kedia and the cheques were issued to various concerns by M/s
BPSL as advances for acquisition of capita assets and that the amount were
routed through various concerns and brought back to the main 4 group
concerns as share capital at premium. 24. Ld. CIT(A) mentioned the details of RTGS or cheques received as per
seized documents in the case of SCS at page no. 169 and 170. He also
mentioned the information related to cheques or RTGS received by SCS from
BPSL group at page no. 171 to 173 of the assessment order, for the cost of
repetition the same are not reproduced herein. 24.1 The Ld. CIT(A) observed that there were certain documents seized from
the office premises of BPSL at Chandigarh during the search conducted on 68 21/02/2014 on which transactions of payments to some companies of SCS were
recorded which matched with the transactions recorded by SCS and Shri R.K.
Kedia. The Ld. CIT(A) pointed out that during the course of search at the
premises of Shri R.K. Kedia in June 2014 one of the loose paper bundle seized
mentioned the name "Deepu" who was found to be ex-employee of Shri Shirish
C. Shah(SCS), on those papers details of cheques (RTGS) received / paid to
Deepu from / to BPSL Group companies / entities had been mentioned and on
one page i.e; 69 cash paid to SCS persons including SCS himself for the period
01/04/2011 to 30/06/2011 had been recorded. On page 68 cash paid to SCS
persons for the period 01/07/2011 to 31/07/2011, and on page 67 from
01/08/2011 to 31/01/2012 had been recorded, on page 66 there was
reconciliation of amount paid to Deepu. The Ld. CIT(A) mentioned that first entry
shows cash paid up to 31/01/2012 at 1,536,500/- which in reality was Rs.
15,36,50,000/- as Shri R.K. Kedia himself admitted that the amount were
recorded by removing two zeroes. The Ld. CIT(A) also mentioned that on page
66 & 65 seized during the course of search at the premises of Shri R.K. Kedia, the
details of payment made to six companies of SCS by BPSL and money received
back from Deepu respectively had been noted. The names has been
mentioned by the Ld. CIT(A) at page no. 174 of the impugned order. 24.2 The Ld. CIT(A) was of the view that if the documents mentioned above
were correlated, it revealed that the amount remitted from BPSL by RTGS were
received by SCS and after layering, the same was received back by four
holding companies of BPSL, similarly the cash received by "Deepu" was remitted
back to BPSL in the form of LTCG, therefore the documents seized from SCS, Shri
R.K. Kedia and BPSL were linked which sufficiently showed that the record of
incriminating nature was seized from the premises of BPSL at Chandigarh which
was maintained on the computers as well as in the printed form. The Ld. CIT(A)
observed that the documents seized from the search on SCS was incriminating
in nature as accepted by the assessee in his submissions and that the 69 documents seized from the premises of BPSL confirm the transactions recorded
by SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia, as such those were also required to be considered as
incriminating. Ld. CIT(A) also observed that the documents seized from the
premises of SCS were his own documents and as per the prevailing provisions of
the Act, the notice under section 153C of the Act could not have been issued to
the assessee and even if notices under section 153C of the Act were to be
issued to the assessee group by virtue of provisions of second proviso to section
153A(1) of the Act, the assessments would have abated, since the assessee and
his wife were searched under section 132 of the Act subsequently and the
assessment had to be completed under section 153A of the Act. He therefore
held that in the case of the assessee in view of the voluntarily admission of
undisclosed income from sale of shares of PIL, constitute evidence found during
the course of search and apart from this incriminating material found in other
searches specifically with regard to the sale of shares of PIL further strengthened
it. According to the Ld. CIT(A) the issue of existence of incriminating material
has to be considered in totality, and the assessee cannot hide behind seizure or
non seizure of the documents, the same has to be construed with peculiar facts
of the case and the expected action on part of an independent entity in
normal circumstances. The Ld.CIT(A) concluded that the action of the A.O. did
not go at variance with the provisions of law and the available jurisprudence in
this matter in so far as invoking the rigors of section 153A was concerned in the
case of assessee. Therefore, he did not find merit in the submissions of the
assessee on the issue relating to the framing of assessment under section 153A of
the Act, in the absence of incriminating material found during the course of
search. 25. As regards to the merits of the case relating to the addition made under section 68 of the Act, the Ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee had declared
capital gain from penny stock companies and claimed deduction under section 10(38) of the Act as under: 26. On the basis of above the Ld. CIT(A) observed that the return on
investments was approximately 30,370% and that family of the assessee earned
LTCG of Rs. 696.44 Crores during the year under consideration in four cases of
investment of Rs. 21.36 Crores and none of the family members had made any
significant investments in any stock other than 14 penny stock traded and also
did not have any income / loss from investment in other shares. The Ld. CIT(A)
also observed that the return from the shares in penny stock ranged 29620% to
45740% over a period of approximate 2 years and over all return for the family of
the assessee from investment in shares amounting to Rs. 21.36 crores was
32600%. Thus every rupee invested had given a profit of Rs. 326 in two years
which could not be considered as normal under any circumstances and even
the human probabilities of earning such high return was NIL. The Ld. CIT(A)
mentioned the sequence of events to strengthen the theory of improbable
returns in the case of the assessee, his family members and business concerns in
the following manner: In the submissions filed, the appellant in the case of Sanjay Singhal has tried to
 justify the LTCG transaction as genuine with the help of documents to support
 them. The appellant has referred to the surrender made during search as being
 done specifically to miligate litigation and purchase peace of mind and there
 was no admission that any accommodation entry has been received by him. 27. The Ld.CIT(A) held that the submissions of the assessee were false as the
surrender was made after the assessee was confronted with all the facts and
findings including complete modus operandi followed by SCS and Shri R.K.
Kedia with regard to the share of PIL and the assessee declared the additional
income on account of LTCG on sale of shares of PIL. He also mentioned that the
different Government agencies had investigated the issue of LTCG declared
from penny stock and had given adverse report on the same after investigation.
Therefore the assessee could not have brushed aside the facts that the
transaction in bank account of BSP, Punajb National Bank, were recorded in
"Kedia 2" Sheet found in the search proceedings of Shri Shirish Chanderkant
Shat (SCS) at different locations which proved the close nexus of the assessee's
group with those LTCG entry operator dealing with manipulation of share
trading. He therefore disproved the submissions of the assessee that the 72 investment in shares of PIL was made as an ordinary investor. Ld. CIT(A)
summarised the facts as drawn from the assessment order at page no. 181 to
184 which read as under: The appellant Shri Sanjay Singhal had surrendered Rs. 160 crores on account
 of the same share in the hands of Shri Sanjay Singhal Smt. Aarti Singhal and
 Sanjay Singhal (HUF) for AY 2011-12 &2012-13 in statement recorded u/s
 132(4) of the Act on 22.02.2014. (vii) The discrepancies found during the course of search on M/s Pranneta
 Industries Ltd by the Directorate of Income Tax (Inv) Ahemdabad on
 09.04.2013 at PIL are discussed at para 4,5,6,7 of the assessment order. This
 included commission charged on LTCG provided to the clients. (viii) Further search and seizure action was again conducted at the office and
residential premises of R.K. Kedia Group on 13.06.2014 by DIT (Inv) Delhi. All
the evidences and findings of search action on SCS Group and other related
groups were confronted to Shri R.K. Kedia during this seach action. Shri R.K.
Kedia stated during oath on 14.06.2014 that he had arranged LTCG
accommodation entries for the various individuals of the BPSL group on the
request of Shri Sanjay Singhal and Shri R.P. Goyal. He also gave names of the
person who used to deliver unaccounted cash of the group to Shri R.K. Kedia
or his employees against which he used to arrange LTCG entry for " Bhushan
Family" Group. (ix) Evidence gathered in the case of Shri Praveen Kumar Jain (Pintu Alias
Chintan) searched u/s 132 of the Act by the DIT (Inv) Mumbai is discussed at
para 9. It is was held by the AO that the entries recorded in the accounts
maintained by Pintu and seized in an independent search action conducted
by Mumbai Directorate are independently correlated with the entries
recorded in the evidence seized/ impounded during the course of search in
the case of SCS. This has been backed by the details as per seized documents,
wherein it has been noticed that the cheque or RTGS received by SCS Group
entities paid by M/s Bhushan Power &Steel Ltd from its PNB Bank account
No. 0131008700000327 and were recorded in' Kedia' 2 sheet'. (x) Para 11.3 gives details in table showing cash trail from BPSL group through
Shri R.K. Kedia, Shri Praveen Kumar Jain to SCS as recorded in their books of
accounts for providing LTCG accommodation entries by using PIL Shares. (xi) Evidences in the form of seized books of accounts from three
independent searches on SCS Group, Kedia Group and Pintu Group at different
point of time and having exactly the same details of accommodation entries in
lieu of unaccounted cash establish beyond any doubt that various individuals of
BPSL Group have taken accommodation entries with the help of the
accommodation entry opertors, as discussed in the assessment order. (xii) A search and survey action was carried out in the case of Shri R.K, Kedia
and his group concerns on 21.02.2014 by DIT(Inv), Chandigarh alongwith BPSL
Group, wherein it was further established that books of accounts found and
seized during the search were related to the accommodation entry business.
Shri R.K. Kedia in his statement recorded u/s 132(4) of the Act admitted that
he is in business of providing accommodation entries after charging certain
percentage of commission. He also admitted that he has arranged
accommodation entries for various benificiaries like BPSL group from
different entry operators(para 12). (xiii) Evidence regarding LTCG accommodation entries taken w.r.to various
listed penny stock companies other than M/s Prranta Industries Ltd was also
brough managing the affairs of the company. (xiv) The AO has also analysed the investment pattern and the evidence in the
case of M/s Blue circle services ltd which prove that this company was used for
providing accommodation entries to various beneficiares. (xv) Same exercise was done for shares of other penny stock companies on which
the BPSL family and group obtained the entries of exmept LTCG. The soft 74 data seized from office of Shri Kedia alongwith various incriminating loose
 papers found from his office established that he was in the business of
 providing accommodation entries. (xvi) In 8 of the companies from whom BPSL family has taken bogus LTCG
 accommodation entries by trading share of these companies, SEBI in its
 investigation has pointed out that price discovery in these companies
 investigation has pointed out that price discovery in these companies was
 distorted and not in consonance with the fundamentals of these companies. (xvii) After decoding from the cash book found during search of Shri R.K. Kedia,
 it was noticed that Shri Kedia had received total amount of Rs. 245.6 crores
 from BPSL family and group in cash during FY 2013-14 and had provided
 various kind accommodation entries including OT and LTCG. (xviii) The AO has also given list of disclosure by benifiaries of LTCG and OT
 entries and disclosure by beneficiaries of LTCG. (xix) The AO has also rebutted the submission of appellant regarding PIL shares
 furnished in response to show cause as to why the receipts on account of sale
 of shares of penny stock companies should not be taxed u/s 68 of the Act. 28. The Ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee submitted copies of all the
documents to substantiate the genuineness of the transactions related to
purchase and subsequent sale of shares leading to LTCG claimed by him, those
documents were also placed before the A.O. who after detailed examination /
discussion had gone beyond those documents and had established that those
documents were mere masks to hide the real nature of transactions and that
the A.O. had indicated that the share price of those penny stock companies
were neither affected by the movement of Sensex nor the financials of the
company to justify the such extra ordinary jump in the price of its shares. Ld.
CIT(A) also observed that apart from being based on evidences gathered
during the search and survey operations analysis of the materials on record and
information from various sources, the finding of the A.O. was based on strong
surrounding circumstances preponderance of probability and human conduct
in the light of detailed analysis of modus operandi adopted by brokers and
operators engaged in the business of providing entries of LTCG to the interested
beneficiaries which had come to surface as a result of deep and wide
investigation and that the initial investment in a company of unknown 75 credentials and subsequent jump in share price of such a company could not
have been an accident or windfall but as clearly brought on record by the A.O.
was possible because of manipulations in the price of share in a preplanned
manner by the interested broker and entry operators for the interest of
beneficiaries who claimed exemption on LTCG earned. 29. As regards to the insistence of the assessee that the transactions leading
to LTCG were supported by the documents such as sale and purchase invoices,
bank statements, brokers notes etc. Ld. CIT(A) observed that those could not be
accepted in view of the facts and circumstances of the case brought on recod
by the A.O. after proper examination of the material facts by taking into
account, the findings of SEBI and corroborating evidences gathered by the
Directorate of Investigation Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad
against a network of brokers and operators engaged in manipulation of market
price of shares of certain companies controlled and managed by such persons
with a purpose to provide accommodation entries in the form of LTCG to those
who wanted to introduce their unaccounted cash in regular books of accounts
without paying tax. 30. As regards to the contention of the assessee that LTCG could not have
been treated as bogus with regard to certain company and brokers. The Ld.
CIT(A) observed that investigation had been carried out by Directorate of
investigation which proved that the assessee wanted to take shelter under such
documentary evidence which themselves had been created as masks to cover
up the true nature of transaction leading to claim of LTCG were distinctly
genuine, non bogus, and to contradict the findings that all the 14 companies
whose scripts were capable of being traded at high price which resulted into
claim of LTCG exempt under section 10(38) of the Act. The Ld. CIT(A) was of the
view that once the assessee was made aware of the result of investigation
which proved that trading of shares leading to LTCG was not genuine, the onus
was on the assessee to prove that he and his family members had earned 76 genuine LTCG under section 101 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1972 as it was the
assessee who was asserting a claim that he was engaged in genuine share
transactions. The reference was made to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Shri Charan Singh Vs. Chandra Bhan Singh AIR 1988 SC 637
wherein it has been held that the burden of proof lies on the party who
substantially asserts the affirmative of the issue and not upon the party who
denies it, and that the party cannot, on failure to establish the prima facie case
take advantage of the weakness of his adversary's case, the party must
succeed by strength of his own right and the clearness of his own proof and he
cannot be heard to say that it was too difficult or virtually impossible to prove
the matter in question. 31. Ld. CIT(A) held that in this case the assessee had made claim that he had
earned genuine LTCG, all the facts were within his knowledge, and that the
provisions of Section 102 of Indian Evidence Act makes it clear that initial onus
was on person who substantially asserts a claim and if the onus is discharged by
him and a case is made out then the onus shifted on to the other party. Ld.
CIT(A) mentioned that during assessment proceedings or appellate proceedings
the assessee failed to produce any evidence to prove that the LTCG claimed
by him was genuine. The Ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee failed to
discharge his burden of proof and the A.O. on the other hand had proved that
the claim of the assessee was incorrect, the enquiry conducted by investigation
carried out by Directorate of Investigation which had been thoroughly analysed
by the A.O. to prove that the assessee had introduced bogus LTCG in his books
of account by routing his unaccounted income through a tax evasion scheme
and that the self admission of assessee in the statement recorded under section
132(4) of the Act and the statement of brokers engaged in providing bogus
LTCG, clearly proved that M/s PIL was one of such companies whose scripts had
been manipulated to provide bogus LTCG. 32. As regards to the contention of the assessee that he was not provided
any opportunity to cross examine the persons / witnesses whose statements had
been used against him. The Ld. CIT(A) observed that such right was not an
absolute right and depends not only on the circumstances of the case but also
on the statute concerned and that where statement and report of third parties
were only the secondary and subordinate material which were used to buttress
the main matter connected with the amount of addition, denial of opportunity
to cross examine did not amount to violation of natural justice. The reference
was made to following case laws: 33. The Ld. CIT(A) observed that primafacie the assessee had produced
documents showing the details of transactions but he miserably failed to satisfy
the test of human probability. He also observed that the case laws relied upon
by the assessee were apparently in favour of the assessee but probably the role
of human conduct, surrounding circumstances and preponderance of
probabilities were either not brought to the notice of the authorities or were not
as dominant or deciding factors as those were found to be in the present case
and that the A.O. had very clearly segregated the apparent from the real by
using various evidences gathered from the reliable sources of information and
report. The Ld. CIT(A) was of the view that the documents submitted as
evidence to prove the genuineness of the transaction were themselves found to
serve as smoke screen to cover up the true nature of the transactions in the
facts and circumstances of the case as it is revealed that purchase and sale of 78 shares were arranged transactions to create bogus profit in the garb of tax
exempt LTCG by well organized network of entry provider with the sole motive
to sell such entries to enable the beneficiary to account for the undisclosed
income for a consideration or commission, reference was made to the following
case laws: 34. Ld. CIT(A) was of the view that the share transactions leading to LTCG by
the assessee were sham transactions entered into for the purpose of evading
tax accordingly the addition made by the A.O. in the hands of the assessee was
confirmed. 35. Now the assessee is in appeal. 36. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that the assessment in appeal
under consideration were unabated for the purposes of Section 153A of the Act,
as no incriminating material was found during the course of search and this fact
has been admitted by the Ld. CIT(A)also at page no. 176 of the impugned
order. 36.1 Ld Counsel for the assessee submitted that search and seizure operation
under section 132(1) was originally conducted on BPSL group to which the
assessee belonged on 03/03/2010 and no incriminating material / documents
pertaining to any irregular availment of accommodation entries in the shape of
bogus LTCG was found and the A.O. after conducting a detailed scrutiny of the
entries recorded in the books of accounts and by considering the documentary
evidences in support of the share transactions, found the LTCG claimed by the 79 assessee to be perfectly in order while framing the assessment under section
153A r.w.s 143(3) of the Act, reference was made to page no. 35 to 78 of the
assessee's paper book which are the copies of the various assessment orders
framed under section 153A r.w.s 143(3) of the Act. 36.2 It was further submitted that the return of income for the A.Y. 2012-13 was
duly processed by Department under section 143(1) of the Act and found to be
in order and that the period to issue the notice under section 143(2) of the Act
for the said A.Y. 2012-13 had expired before the date of the subsequent search
action on 21/02/2014 therefore the assessment for the A.Y. 2008-09, 2010-11 &
2012-13 stood concluded and thus the assessment in these assessment years
were unabated for the purpose of assessment under section 153A pursuant to
the subsequent search action on 21/02/2014. It was stated that a survey
operation under section 133A was also conducted in the case of BPSL group on
27/02/2012 and once again nothing incriminating was found with respect to
LTCG claimed by the assessee(s). Subsequently search action under section
132(1) of the Act was again carried out in BPSL group of cases including
office/residential premises of the assessee(s) on 21/02/2014 and once again
nothing incriminating was found in the course of search operation in other words
the said search action did not lead to discovery of any iota of evidence
indicating any irregular availment of bogus LTCG by the assessee(s). 36.3 It was emphasized that the simultaneous search operation was also
conducted on the same date i.e; 21/02/2014 in the case of Shri R.K. Kedia the
alleged broker on whose advise the assessee had made the impugned
investments in the shares. Once again no incriminating material with respect to
the LTCG claimed by the assessee was found in the course of said search action
and the statement of Shri R.K Kedia was recorded under section 132(4) of the
Act on 22/02/2014 wherein he categorically confirmed the genuineness of the
share transactions carried out by the assessee, the reference was made to
page no. 194 to 206 of the assessee's paper book which is the copy of the 80 statement of Shri R.K. Kedia wherein the references were made to certain pre-
existing third party and third party documentation of alleged entry operators
collected by the Investigation Wing in the course of separate search actions in
their cases in the earlier years viz 2012 & 2013 but the assessee vehemently
denied having any nexus with the so called entry providers and the alleged
documentation seized from their premises. 36.4 It was further submitted that the search party exerted tremendous
pressure on the assessee and compelled him to make an adhoc disclosure of
additional income of Rs. 250/- Crores on behalf of entire group despite the fact
that the search action in the assessee's case did not lead to discovery of any
incriminating material whatsoever indicating the factum of any undisclosed
income of the assessee who filed a letter dt. 22/02/2014 specifying the claim
that the said offer of additional income was made on behalf of the entire group
solely with a view to avoid litigation and to purchase peace of mind and that
the break up was also given for himself, his wife Smt. Arti Singal and his HUF
aggregating to Rs. 159.61 crores offered earlier without admitting of any irregular
availment of bogus LTCG on the said shares and letter dt. 06/03/2014 to the
said effect was furnished. It was vehemently argued that the assessment made
pursuant to search action were required to be based on the incriminating
materials discovered as a result of search operations in the case of assessee and
no reliance could have been placed on the confession / admission of
undisclosed income obtained in course of search, reference was made to the
CBDT Circular No. F.No. 286/2/2003-IT(Inv.) dt. 10/03/2003 and F.No. 286/98/2013-
IT dt. 18/12/2014. 36.5 It was emphasized that by following the aforesaid CBDT Circular the
adhoc offer of additional income of Rs. 250 Crores which was not backed up by
any incriminating material found during the course of search was subsequently
withdrawn and not included in the return of income filed in response to the
notice issued under section 153A of the Act. It was stated that on being asked 81 the assessee explained that all the impugned transactions in shares were
perfectly genuine and evidence based, in support thereof the assessee filed
cogent documentary evidence with respect to acquisition of the share,
payment made via account payee cheques, copies of DMAT account,
evidence pertaining to sale of shares over recognized stock exchange at prices
prevailing on the stock exchange through registered stock broker / broker's
notes, receipt of sale consideration via regular banking channels etc. thus
conclusively establishing all the requisite ingredients of section 68 of the Act to
explain the nature and sums found credited in the books of account, shifting
onus to disprove the same on the A.O.

36.6 It was stated that the A.O. made references to certain seized documents
and statement recorded by various officers of Investigation Wing pursuant to
separate search and seizure operation carried out in the case of various alleged
entry / exit operator in earlier years vis Shri Praveen Agarwal on 13/09/2012, Shri
Sirish Chandrakant Shah (SCS) on 09/04/2013, Shri Praveen Kumar Jain(Pintu) on
11/10/2013, Shri Jagdish Prasad Purohit on 19/10/2011, 12/02/2013, 17/12/2013
etc. However the name of the assessee was not mentioned in any of the
documents seized pursuant to the search action on the aforesaid alleged entry
providers and the documents found from them apparently comprised of entries
interse between them having no nexus with the assese and the statement
recorded pursuant to the above search action on third parties were not
directed against any of the assessee(s) herein and at that time there was no
ongoing proceedings under section 153A of the Act against any of the assessee
under consideration, therefore, if at all such third party documentation /
statements recorded by different officers of the Investigation Wing were found
to be directly incriminating against the assessee, then at that point of time the
A.O. after independent application of mind was obliged to examine the same
from the angle of reopening of the assessment of the assessee under section
147 / 148 of the Act. However, since the result of the search / survey action in the 82 case of the aforesaid third parties were not considered sufficient / conclusive
enough to implicate the Assessee(s), no proceedings under section 147 / 148 were initiated against the assessee pursuant to the search / survey action in the
case of alleged entry / exit providers and even no simultaneous search/survey
action was conducted in the case of the assessee pursuant to the search
operation on the alleged entry/exit operators in the years 2012-13. 36.7 It was further stated that on being confronted to the aforesaid third party
statements and documentation the assessee vehemently denied any nexus
with the alleged entry providers and / or alleged data seized from their premises
and made categorical request for allowing him an opportunity to cross
examine the persons whose statements & seized documents were intended to
be used against the assessee. However no such opportunity was provided to the
assessee in complete denial of principles of natural justice, thus nullifying /
neutralizing the referral value of such alleged third party evidences relied upon
by the A.O. and resulting in conclusion of the successful discharge of onus under section 68 of the Act in favour of the assessee. 36.8 The reliance was placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in
the case of Andaman Timber Industries Vs. CCE (2015) 62 Taxmann.com 3/52
GST 355, (2015) 281 CTR 241(SC) wherein it has been held that when statements
of witnesses were made the basis of the demand, then not allowing the
assessee to cross examine the concerned witnesses was a serious flaw which
shall render the order to nullity, as it amounts the violation of principles of natural
justice. 36.9 It was submitted that the A.O. made the addition merely on the basis of
report of Investigation Wing and statement recorded by the Investigation Wing
without any corroborative evidence and examination and without allowing
cross examination to the assessee so, it was not sustainable. The reliance was
placed on the following case laws: 36.11 It was submitted that the Ld. CIT(A) himself contradicted the stand of
Department at page no. 176 of the impugned order wherein in Para (iv) he
observed that the document seized from the premises of BPSL confirmed the
transaction recorded by SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia and as such they were also
required to be considered as incriminating and at the same time he observed in
para (vii) on the same page that the documents seized from the premises of SCS
were his own documents and as per the prevailing provisions notices under section 153C of the Act could not have been issued to the assessee which 84 clearly shows that there was no incriminating material found during the course
of search and documents / material found during the search of third parties did
not belong to the assessee. 36.12 It was reiterated that it is well settled that only if during the course of
search under section 132 of the Act, incriminating material justifying the
reopening of the assessment for six previous years is found then the invocation of section 153A of the Act qua each of the A.Y's would be justified and that the
object of this section is to bring to tax the undisclosed income which is found
during the course of or pursuant to the search or requisition, in other words the
assessment should be connected with something found during the search or
requisition viz., incriminating material which reveals undisclosed income but in
this case no incriminating material is found, therefore, the earlier assessment
would have to be reiterated, the reliance was placed on the judgment of the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pr. CIT & Othrs Vs. Meeta Gutgutia Prop .
Ferns 'N' Petals & Ors (2017) 395 ITR 526 which subsequently has been affirmed
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as reported at (2018) 96 taxmann.com 468. 36.13 It was submitted that the search action conducted in the case of the
assessee on 21/02/2014 did not lead to discovery of any incriminating material
whatsoever indicating any irregular availment of bogus LTCG by the assessee as
alleged by the A.O. and simultaneously search action in the case of alleged
broker Shri R. K. Kedia also did not lead to discovery of any incriminating
material against the assessee. However having not discovered anything
incriminating the Department kept inflicting immense pressure on Shri R.K. Kedia
with a predetermined mindset of extracting certain illicit statements against the
assessee, again examined Shri R.K Kedia on 14/03/2014 and subsequently on
20/03/2014. However having once again failed in implicating the assessee it
appears that the department continued to pressurize Shri R.K. Kedia at the back
of the assessee and certain documents were manipulated against the assesse
to match the alleged enties in documents seized earlier from the premises of 85 other alleged entry providers such as SCS, Pintu etc and later on converted into
another search operation on Shri R.K Kedia on 13/06/2014, on this time the
Department on the strength of fabricated data succeeded in forcibly extracting
certain predetermined adverse statements directly implicating the assessee
from Shri R.K. Kedia and his employee Shri Manish Arora vide their statement and
they were forced to change the stand taken by Shri R.K. Kedia earlier on
22/02/2014 and deposed that Shri R.K. Kedia had arranged bogus LTCG
accommodation entries for the assessee. However, the assessee vehemently
denied any linkage / connection with said persons and also challenged the
veracity of such fabricated seized material and the testimony of Shri R.K. Kedia
and Manish Arora by demanding an opportunity to cross examination however
no such opportunity was granted to the assessee. 36.14 It was emphasized that Shri R.K. Kedia realizing the implication of false
claim made by him in his statement dt. 13/06/2014 decided to file his retraction
vide letter dt. 14/10/2014 reverting to his original stand. The reference was made
to page no. 249 to 251 of the assessee's paper book which is the copy of the
said retraction. It was stated that the Department kept pressurising Shri R.K.Kedia
to withdraw his retraction and after continuous insistence & threat imposed by
the Department for almost five months, Shri R.K. Kedia finally succumbed to such
pressure and filed another letter dt. 26/03/2015, re-retracting the retraction filed
by him on 14/10/2014. It was submitted that the similar issue having identical
facts has already been decided by the ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Shri Brij
Bhushan Singal & Ors Vs. ACIT in ITA Nos. 1412-1414, 1476-1478, 1482, 1485-
1487/Del/2018 vide order dt. 31/10/2018, copy of which is placed at page nos.
1007-1179 of the assessees paper book. 36.15 Ld. Counsel for the assessee has summed up his arguments as under: - by ignoring the fact that such third party documents/statements were not
corroborated by any incriminating materials found in the course of the search
action in the Assessee(s)' case and thus had no referral/evidentiary value in
assessments framed u/s 153A in the Assessee(s)' case; - by invoking the presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C with respect to the
correctness of the recitals/ entries made in such third party documentation
against the Assessee(s) herein although the same were not seized from the
possession & control of the Assessee(s) in the course of the search initiated in the
case of the Assessee(s); - by placing bland reliance on such third party documentation & third
party statements without the A.O even testing the authenticity/ veracity/
reliability of such third party evidences collected by the Investigation Wing by
conducting any independent enquiry by examining the said third parties in
course of the assessment proceedings and allowing an opportunity of cross
examination of such third parties to the Assessee(s) resulting in gross violation of
principles of natural justice; - by using the same uncorroborated third party statements &
documentation which were earlier deemed insufficient to initiate proceedings
against the Assessee(s) u/s 147/148, in a circuitous way for making additions in
assessments framed u/s 153A pursuant to subsequent search action on the
Assessee u/s 132(1) despite the fact that the search action in the Assessee(s)'
case did not result in discovery of any incriminating material in corroboration/
substantiation of the alleged third party evidence. Thus, the alleged third party
evidences which were earlier unsubstantiated and hence lacked evidentiary
value w.r.t the Assessee(s) and remained so even after the subsequent search
action in the case of the Assessee(s) herein were circuitously used against the
Assessee in the guise of search assessment u/s 153 A of the Act. 36.16 Ld. Counsel for the assessee also furnished the written submissions stating
therein that the facts of the present case were similar to the fact of the case of
Shri Brijbhushan Singal & Ors Vs. ACIT(supra) in the following words: examination was provided to the Assessee - see para 113 of the order for
 unabated years (at page 1158 ofPB-5C) (iii) No reliance could be placed on testimony dt. 13.06.2014 of RK Kedia who
 had been proved to have indulged in double speaking and taking contradictory
 stands (first retracted from his statement on 14.10.2014 & thereafter withdrew his
 retraction on 31.03.2015) - see para 113 of order for unabated years (at page
 1158 ofPB-5C) (iv) Assessments u/s 153A pursuant to search operation are required to be
 based on incriminating materials discovered as a result of search operation in
 the case of the Assessee and not on the recorded statements - it cannot be said that the statements on the basis of which impugned
 additions were made by the AO were incriminating material found during the
 course of search - in the instant case no incriminating material was found during
 the course of search and additions made by the AO while framing assessments
 u/s 153A need to be restricted to incriminating material found during the course
 of search - see para 117 of the order for unabated years (at page 1160 of PB-SC) (v)Presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C of the Act is available only in the case of the
 person in who^e possession and control the documents are found but it is not
 available in respect of the third parties - in the present case there was no
 independent evidence to link the seized documents found in premises of third
 parties with any incriminating materials found in course of search operation at the
 premises of the Assessee - therefore entries in the documents seized from third
 party's premises would not be sufficient to prove that the Assessee was indulged
 in such transactions - in the absence of incriminating material found during the
 course of search u/s 132(1) in respect of unabated A.Ys, additions made by the
 AO were not justified -see para 121 of the order for unabated years (at pages
 1172-1173 ofPB 5C) (vi) Violation of principles of natural justice by not granting an of opportunity
 of cross examination of Departmental witnesses whose statements are used
 against the Assessee(s) in assessments framed against
 him/them constitutes an illegality warranting the deletion of the addition made
 on such basis and annulment of the assessment order itself - see para26 of order
 for abated years (at pagesl330-1331 ofPB-5C) (vii) Data seized from the premises of R.K. Kedia cannot be used against the
 Assessee
 unless the Assessee is given an opportunity of cross -examination of men with 88 respect to documents found relating to the Assessee or where the names of the
 Assessees are mentioned - see para 27 of order for abated years (at page 1332
 ofPB-5C) (viii) Documents seized from third parties cannot be used for making addition
 in the hands of the Assessee without the Assessee beingallowed an opportunity of
 cross- examination of those parties - see para 29 of order for abated years (at
 page 1334 of PB- 5C) (ix) Additions cannot be sustained merely by placing reliance on theory of
 preponderance of probabilities - statements of several persons recorded by the
 Revenue were not allowed to be cross-examined by the Assessee- Assessee had
 shown purchase consideration paid by cheque and recorded in its books of
 account which were accepted by the Revenue in earlier years - shares were sold
 at prices prevailing at the stock exchange- the regulatory bodies viz.
 SEBI & Stock exchange had not questioned the conduct of the Assessee and the
 broker selling the shares - Assessee had paid STT and the sale consideration was
 received from SEBI registered stock broker - Assessee had produced
 overwhelming evidences which were not proved to be false - AO reliance on
 preponderance of probabilities to tax the LTCG in the hands of the Assessee held
 not to be in order - see para 34 of the order for abated years
 (at pages 1343-1344 ofPB-5C) (x) Even on merit, the LTCG earned by the Assessee could not be charged to
 tax u/s 68 - see para 44 of the order for abated years (at page 1351 ofPB-5C)

 The holdings of the Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi Bench in the case of Brij Bhushan Singal &
 Ors Vs. ACIT (supra) are equally applicable to the strikingly similar facts of the
 present case. Thus the present case is fully covered by the judgment rendered by
 the Hon'ble ITAT in the said case. Kindly note that in the present case, in making
 the impugned additions in the hands of the Assessees herein, the AO has primarily
 relied upon the statement of Sri RK Kedia & Manish Arora and the documents
 seized from his premises in course of search action in his case on 13.06.2014. With
 categorical reference to the said Sri R.K. Kedia, the hard/soft data seized from his
 premises and the statements of Sri R.K. Kedia & his employee Sri Manish Arora
 recorded in course of his search on 13.06.2014 and his subsequent retraction and
 re-retraction, the Hon'ble ITAT has given a specific finding that no reliance can be
 placed on the statement of Sri R.K. Kedia and the documents seized from his
 premises unless the Assessee is granted an opportunity of cross examination of the
 said person - further not allowing an opportunity of cross examination of the said
 person despite specific request by the Assessee is fatal to the Assessment
 warranting deletion of addition made on the said basis. The reliance was placed on the following case laws: • Dharampal Satyapal Ltd. Vs. DCIT (ITA Nos. 3877 to 3881/Del/2016)
 • Pr. CIT Vs. Dharampal Premchand Ltd. (2017) 99 CCH 202
 • CIT Vs. S. Khader Khan Son (2008) 300 ITR 157 (Mad)
 • CIT Vs. Sri P. Balasubramanium (2013) 354 ITR 116 (Mad)
 • CIT & Ors, Vs. Meeta Gutgutia Prop . Ferns 'N' Petals & Ors (supra)
 • Sri Krishna Vs. Kurukshetra University, AIR 1976 SC 376
 • K.T.M.M. Mohd. Vs. UOI : 197 ITR 196 (SC): 37. As regards to the issue relating to the addition under section 68 of the Act,
the Ld. Counsel for the assessee stated that the A.O. while making the additions
under section 68 and 69C of the Act on account of sale proceeds of shares &
alleged unaccounted commission expenses and submitted as under: 38.1 It was submitted that certain brokers and intermediaries set up shops for
providing amounts representing LTCG exempt under section 10(38) of the Act,
to people who want to convert their unaccounted income by charging a hefty
commission of 5-6% of the amount of gains. This fraudulent activity of such
unscrupulous entry operators came to the notice of SEBI which being a
regulatory authority of the capital market, conducted detailed examination of
the price rigging of shares of such companies and collected data of the
beneficiaries, counter party buyers, brokers, movement of prices, and other
relevant details. It was further stated that the SEBI issued notices to various
parties in this regard and passed on the information to the Income Tax
Department, thereafter the Directorate of Investigation conducted search at
various places as per following details: vi. Sh. R.K. Kedia (RKK), share broker cum entry operator on 21.02.2014.
 vii. Sh. R.K Kedia and his accountant, Manish Arora on 13.06.2014.
 viii. Sh. Jagdish Prasad Purohit (JPP), entry operator at Mumbai and Kolkata
 on 19.10.2011 and 12.02.2013
 ix. Sh. Praveen Kumar Agarwal (PKA), entry operator at Kolkata on 13.09.2012

38.2 Ld. Standing Counsel stated that the transactions recorded / reflected in
the books of account of BPSL did not mean that those were explained. It was
also stated that the incriminating material would include the following items : ii. The words and expressions coined by Courts and Tribunals cannot be
 interpreted like the words and expressions appearing in a statute. Such words and
 expressions have to be understood in their normal contextual and common-sense
 connotations. iii. The incriminating material would, include any tangible or
 intangible asset or property, any information having a bearing on the income,
 any document which has an impact on such income and would also include any
 other material which Revenue gathers in a search or post-search investigation
 having relevance to the determination of chargeable income.
 iv. The provisions of Section 153 A contemplate only initiation of search as a
 pre-condition for assumption of jurisdiction and empower the AO to assess or re-
 assess the total income of six assessment years preceding the year of search.
 v. What constitutes "search" is not circumscribed by any definition u/s 153A .
 The search in the case of a person may be initiated at his place or at the places
 of certain other persons. In the process of investigation, a situation may also arise
 where certain persons are searched at one point of time while others are
 searched at an earlier or later point of time. The material found from the premises
 of one may be relevant for making assessment in the case of the other and
 therefore, the expression used by the Courts or Tribunals "incriminating material" 39.1 It was further submitted that the addition to the income of the assessee
had been made under section 68 and 69 C of the Act on account of
unexplained sale proceeds of shares and unaccounted commission expenses
and that the provisions of Section 68 of the Act mandate in explicit terms that
the onus to be placed on the assessee offering the satisfactory explanation with
regard to the credit appearing in his books and to establish the identity of the
creditors, their credit worthiness and the genuineness of the transactions and
where the onus is discharged by the assessee, the A.O. has to carry out further
enquiry to demonstrate the explanation, so offered by the assesse was not
satisfactory in his opinion and once he does so and the Revenue confront the
assessee with such material, the assessee has to establish the satisfactory nature
of his explanation and his primary onus would not stand discharged till then. The
reliance was placed on the following case laws: 39.4 It was emphasized that each and every bit of material with the
Department was made available to the assessee even before the voluntary
surrender of income was made. It was stated that presumption under section
132(4) of the Act, in the caseof SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia based on material found
and their statement that they had acted as entry operator itself was enough to
justify the addition made in the assessee's case. 40. Ld. Standing Counsel justified the making of addition in the years under
consideration and submitted as under: 41. On merits of the case it was submitted that the transactions under
consideration was abnormal and the companies whose shares were claimed to
have been brought to sale were paper companies having no sufficient business
operations. The share prices of those companies were artificially jacked up by
the entry operators and the financials of those companies did not indicate any
justification for the abnormal increase in prices from Rs. 1 to Rs. 75-80 in a span of
few months and that the transactions in themselves were highly unusual which
do not meet the test of human probabilities, therefore the A.O. was fully justified
in making the addition under section 68 of the Act. The reference was made to
the following case laws: 42. It was reiterated that the assessee offered the entire amount of
undisclosed income in his statement recorded under section 132(4) of the Act
which had not been returned by way of an affidavit or any letter addressed to
the A.O. or to the Investigation Wing before whom, such declaration was made
and that the mere fact that the return under section 153A of the Act did not
incorporate this admitted undisclosed income could not be recorded as
retraction of a sworn statement given under section 132(4) of the Act and that
the assessee had not given any reason for not declaring the undisclosed
income in his return except a general argument that the statement was given
under duress or coercion. It was stated that the surrender of income was not
merely by way of statement, it was further followed by the letter filed before the 105 Department after considerable lapse of time. Therefore, there cannot be any
occasion of any duress or coercion. 43. It was contended that the statement given by the assessee was by itself a
ground adequate enough for the A.O. to make the addition even if no other
documents or statements were to be taken into consideration. 44. The Ld. Standing Counsel justified the addition made by the A.O. by giving
in writing as under: 44.1 It was further submitted that the addition made by the A.O. and sustained
by the Ld. CIT(A) was also justified on the basis of sworn statement of entry
operator, broker and their associates for the following reasons: xii. The appellants have not led any material whatsoever to discharge the
 onus cast on them u/s 68 and hence, the additions are fully justified. The reliance was placed on the following case laws: 46.1 Ld. Counsel for the assessee further submitted that the contention of the
Ld. Standing Counsel that the documents seized from the premises of BPSL
allegedly confirmed the transaction recorded by SCS and Shri R.K. Kedia was
not tenable, since the documents seized from BPSL were not connected with
the issue of LTCG and was part of the regular disclosed record of BPSL and even
if at all it was to be treated as unexplained then it was relevant only to the case
of BPSL and not of the assessee's. 46.2 It was emphasized that the documents seized from SCS or Pintu, nowhere
contained the name of the assessee and those documents contained entries
interse between the alleged entry operator. It was stated that no addition can
be made, based on third party statement or third party documents unless those
were subjected to the cross examination by the assessee particularly when the
name of the assessee was not appearing in the said seized documents and the
assessee did not know those persons. 47. As regards to the submissions of the Ld. Standing Counsel that the
documents seized from SCS had shown that Shri R.K.Kedia acted on behalf of
the BPSL group to get bogus accommodation entries of LTCG, it was stated that
no incriminating material was found in the case of simultaneously search on Shri
R.K. Kedia on 21/02/2014 and that in the statement recorded under section
132(4) of the Act Shri R.K. Kedia categorically admitted that transactions
undertaken by the assessee were perfectly genuine. 47.1 It was submitted that the assessee's case is fully covered by the decision
of the ITAT Delhi Bench in the case of Shri Brijbhushan Singal & Others(supra)
therefore the addition made by the A.O. and sustained by the Ld. CIT(A) in the
absence of incriminating material found during the course of search was not
justified and deserved to be deleted. 47.2 Ld. Counsel for the assessee also distinguished the case laws relied by the
Ld. Standing Counsel for the Department in his written submissions page nos. 28
to 43 (which is placed on record) and submitted that the concluded assessment
cannot be disturbed by passing the assessment under section 153A of the Act in
the absence of incriminating material particularly when the A.O. earlier made
the regular assessment under section 143(3) of the Act by conducting enquiry
and examining the material available on the record. It was also stated that no
incriminating material was pointed out in the statement of the assessee wherein
nothing was mentioned that the transactions was bogus. It was also stated that 110 no corresponding assets to suggest the undisclosed income, was found and the
transactions were accepted as genuine in the regular assessment framed under section 143(3) of the Act therefore the addition made by the A.O. and sustained
by the Ld. CIT(A) was not justified. 48. We have considered the submissions of both the parties and perused the
material available on the record. In the present case it is an admitted fact that
the appeals under consideration relates to the years prior to the search and the
assessment framed were unabated. In other words regular assessment framed
were prior to the search and seizure operation under section 132(1) of the Act
on 21/02/2014 and the issuance of notice dt. 29/01/2015 under section 153A of
the Act. In the present case no incriminating material was found during the
course of aforesaid search and even earlier when the search took place on
03/03/2010 and survey took place on 27/12/2012 no incriminating material was
found from the business / residential premises of the assessee. The present
assessment was framed under section 153A of the Act. It is well settled that the
addition under section 153A of the Act can be made only on the basis of the
incriminating material found during the course of search. In the present case the
A.O. made the addition under section 68 of the Act on the basis of material
found in the search which took place in the case of SCS, Shri R.K. Kedia and
Pintu however name of the assessee was not mentioned on the documents
found during the course of aforesaid search. The A.O. considered the statement
of third parties as incriminating material for the purposes of making the addition
in the assessment made under section 153A of the Act. In the instant case the
A.O. proceeded to utilize the statements of the third parties for making the
addition while framing the assessment under section 153A of the Act, however
no opportunity to cross examine those parties was provided to the assessee. In
the present case the Ld. CIT(A) himself admitted at page no. 176 of the
impugned order that no incriminating material was found from the possession of
the assessee during the course of search. 48.1 During the course of hearing the Ld. Standing Counsel for the Department
heavily relied on the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of M/s
Ganpati Fincap Services (supra) wherein it has been held that documents found
from the premises of third parties were also relevant if they incriminate the
assessee. However, in the present case nothing is brought on record to
substantiate that the name of the assessee was mentioned in any of the
documents / material found from the premises of the third parties i.e; SCS or Shri
R.K. Kedia or Pintu or PIL. 48.2 In the instant case the Ld. Standing Counsel stated that the decision of
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court relied by the Ld. Counsel for the assessee in the
case of CIT Vs. Kabul Chawla (supra) was not rendered by the Jurisdictional High
Court and the decisions of the Hon'ble Kerala High Court in the cases of E.N.
Gopakumar Vs. CIT reported at ( 2017) 390 ITR 131, CIT Vs. St. Francis Clay Décor
Tiles reported at (2016) 385 ITR 624 and also of the Hon'ble Allahabad High
Court in the case of CIT vs. Raj Kumar Arora reported at (2014) 367 ITR 517(All)
supports the view of the Department that the assessment under section 153A of
the Act can be made even in respect of completed assessment i.e; unababted
assessment whether or not any material was found during the course of search.
He also stated that no decision on this issue had been rendered by the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court. We do not see any merit in the aforesaid contention of
the Ld. Standing Counsel in view of the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
Court in the case of Mysore Minerals Ltd Vs. CIT reported at 239 ITR 775 wherein it
has been held that " it is also well settled that where there are two interpretation
of taxing provisions the one which is favourable to the assessee should be
preferred". 48.3 Similarly in the case of Union of India and Others Vs. Omkar S. Kanwar and
Others reported at (2002) 258 ITR 761 Hon'ble Apex Court held that " it is settled
law that if two views are possible then the one which is in favour of the assessee
must be adopted". 48.4 A similar view has been taken in the case of CIT, West Bengal I Vs.
Vegetable Products Ltd reported at 88 ITR 192 wherein it has been held by the
Hon'ble Apex Court that " if the Court find that the language of the taxing
provision is ambiguous or capable and more mean than one, then the Court
has to adopted that interpretation which favours the assessee". 48.5 We therefore do not see merit in these submissions of the Ld. Standing
Counsel that the judgment in the case of Kabul Chawla (supra) reported in
(2015) 61 Taxmann.com 412 (Delhi) is not of the Jurisdictional High Court so
preference is to be given to the Judgment given by the Hon'ble Kerala and
Allahabad High Court. 49. After considering the totality of the facts as discussed in the former part of
this order and that no incriminating material was found during the course of
search, we, are of the view that the facts of the present case are identical to
the facts involved in the case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal & Others (supra) wherein
the similar issue has been decided vide order dt. 31/10/2018 and the relevant
findings have been given in para 104 to 121 which read as under: 106. From the second proviso to the aforesaid Section, it is clear that the
assessment or reassessment, if any, relating to any assessment year falling within
the period of six assessment years and for the relevant assessment year or years
referred to in Sub-Section (1) of Section 153A of the Act, is pending on the date of
initiation of search u/s 132 of the Act or making of requisition u/s 132A of the Act
as the case may be shall abate. In other words, the only assessment which are
pending shall abate but those assessments which had already been completed
before the search proceedings cannot be reassessed under this Section. In the 114 present case, the search took place on 13.06.2014 and the assessment for the
assessment years 2010-11 and 2011-12 were completed prior to the said date i.e.
13.06.2014 u/s 143(3) of the Act, therefore, those were not abated. The assessee
filed the return of income for the assessment years 2010-11, 2011-12 and 2012-13
on 31.07.2010, 30.07.2011 and 31.07.2012 respectively while the search took place
on 13.06.2014 and the assessments u/s 143(3) of the Act were framed on
27.02.2011 and 14.02.2014 for the assessment years 2010-11 and 2011-12
respectively (copies of which are place at page nos. 66 to 92 of the assessee's
compilation). The return of income for the assessment year 2012-13 was filed by
the assessee on 31.07.2012 and the time to issue the notice u/s 143(2) of the Act
had already expired before the date of search. Therefore, the scope of
assessment u/s 153A of the Act in respect of the assessment years under
consideration i.e. assessment years 2010- 11 to 2012-13 is limited to the
incriminating material found during the course of search. As regards to the issue
relating to the original return of income processed u/s 143(1) of the Act and for
which time to issue notice u/s 143(2) of the Act had already expired before the
search took place. The ITAT Delhi Bench 'I-1', New Delhi in the case of Granite
Gate Properties Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT, CC-6, New Delhi in ITA Nos. 7022 to
7024/Del/2017 for the assessment years 2009-10 to 2011-12 vide order dated
29.05.2018 (where in one of us i.e. Accountant Member is the author) held in
paras 18 to 20 as under: It has further been held as under: 20. In the present case also, although the assessment was not framed u/s 143(3) of the Act but an intimation was issued u/s 143(1) of the Act, however, the time to
issue the notice u/s 143(2) of the Act has already expired before the search.
Therefore, for the purposes of Section 153A r.w.s. 153C of the Act, an intimation u/s 143(1) of the Act was also an order of assessment. In the present case, since
no incriminating material was found during the course of search. The addition
made by the AO u/s 153A of the Act on account of interest on FCCDs was not
justified." 107. We, therefore, by respectfully following the aforesaid referred to order of the
Co-ordinate Bench are of the confirmed view that the assessment for the
assessment year 2012-13 although was not framed u/s 143(3) of the Act, however,
the time to issue the notice u/s 143(2) of the Act had already expired before the
search took place on 13.06.2014. Therefore, for the purpose of Section 153A of
the Act, processing of the return of income u/s 143(1) of the Act was also an
assessment. As such the assessment for the assessment year 2012-13 was also
unabated. It is well settled that the addition u/s 153A of the Act can only be
made on the basis of incriminating material found during the course of search. In
the present case, no incriminating material/document was found during the
course of search. The AO made the additions on the basis of the statement of the
third parties recorded u/s 132(4) of the Act on the basis of alleged entry in
hard/soft data seized from premises of third parties in the course of search action
in their cases. In the present case, copies of the Panchanama are placed at
page nos. 1 to 58 of the assessee's compilation. From a bare perusal of the
Panchanama of the assessee, it may be seen that nothing incriminating was
found in the course of search. It is also apparent from the search document that
no incriminating material in the form of undisclosed, document, unaccounted
money, bullion, jewellery etc. indicating the factum of undisclosed income were
found or seized in the course of search operation u/s 132(1) of the Act for any of
the assessment years under consideration. In the instant case, the AO relied upon
the statement of Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia his employee Sh. Manish Arora, Sh. Ankur
Agarwal, an employee of BSL and Sh. Chandrakant Mahadev Jadhav. However,
Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia retracted his statement on 14.10.2014 (copy of which is
placed at page nos. 446 to 451 of the assessee's compilation). Thereafter, he filed
letter dated 31.03.3015 withdrawing his retraction, copy of which is placed at
page nos. 452 to 455 of the assessee's compilation. Therefore, he was changing
his stand as such his statement cannot be considered to be reliable. Similarly, Sh.
Ankur Agarwal also retracted his statement vide letter dated 20.12.2016 which is
placed at page no. 190 of the assessee's compilation. Similar was the position
with regard to the statement of Sh. Chandrakant Mahadev Jadhav recorded on
13.06.2014, the said statement was also retracted vide letter dated 24.11.2016.
Now question arises as to whether the addition can be made u/s 153A of the Act
in the absence of any incriminating material emanating from search u/s 132(1) of 116 the Act, only on the basis of the statement recorded u/s 132(4) of the Act,
particularly, when the opportunity to cross-examination of the witness whose
statement were relied, was not given to the assessee. 108. On a similar issue, the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Pr. CIT
Vs Best Infrastructure (India) Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 11/2017 and Others (supra) vide
order dated 01.08.2017 (copy of which is placed at page nos. 151 to 171 of the
assessee's compilation) held in paras 35 to 39 as under: 109. Similarly, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Andaman Timber Industries
Vs Commissioner of Central Excise (2015) 281 CTR 241 (supra) held as under: 110. A similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Kishinchand Chellaram Vs CIT 1980 AIR 2117 (supra) wherein it has been held as
under: examine the Manager of the Bank with reference to the statements made by
him. Moreover, this letter was said to have been addressed by the Manager of
the Bank to the Income Tax Officer on 18th February, 1955 in relation to a
remittance alleged to have been sent on 16th October, 1946 and it is impossible
to believe in the absence of any evidence to that effect, that the Manager who
wrote this letter on 18th February, 1955 must have been incharge of the Madras
Office on 16th October, 1946 so as to have personal knowledge as to who
remitted the amount of Rs. 1,07,350, The Revenue authorities ought to have
called upon the Manager of the Bank to produce the documents and papers on
the basis of which he made the statements contained in his letter and confronted
the assessee with those documents and papers but instead of doing so, the
Revenue authorities chose to rely merely on the statements contained in the
letter and that too, without showing the Letter to the assessee." 111. A similar view has been expressed by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in
the case of CIT Vs SMC Share Brokers Ltd. (supra) wherein it has been held as
under: 112. Similarly, the ITAT Mumbai 'B' Bench in the case of Straptex (India) (P) Ltd. Vs
DCIT 84 ITD 320 (supra) held as under: 113. In the present case, the opportunity to the assessee to cross-examine the
person whose statements were relied upon by the AO was required to be given,
on the date fixed by the AO, the assessee presented himself through his
Authorized Representative but the concerned person did not turn up, so it cannot
be said that the opportunity to cross-examination was provided to the assessee,
although the statements of third parties were used against the assessee. In the
instant case, it is an admitted fact that the persons whose statements were
recorded at the time of search, later on retracted from their statements and one
person, namely, Sh. Raj Kumar Kedia first retracted on 14.10.2014 and thereafter
withdrew the retraction vide letter dated 31.03.2015. Therefore, no reliance can
be placed on the testimony of the said person who was indulging in double
speaking and taking contrary stands. 114. On a similar issue, the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT Vs
Eastern Commercial Enterprises (1994) 210 ITR 103 (supra) held as under: 115. On a similar issue the CBDT also issued the Circular No. 286/2/2003- IT(Inv.),
dated 10.03.2003 stating therein as under: 116. The aforesaid directions were once again reiterated by the CBDT vide
Circular No. 286/98/2013-IT dated 18.12.2014 which read as under: 117. From the aforesaid Circulars, it is clear that the assessments made pursuant
to search operation are required to be based on incriminating materials
discovered as a result of search operation in the case of the assessee and not on
the recorded statement. In the instant case, the persons who gave the
statements, retracted the same and even the opportunity to cross-examine was
not afforded to the assessee. In our opinion, it cannot be said that those
statements on the basis of which impugned additions were made by the AO,
were incriminating material found during the course of search. As we have
already noted that no incriminating material was found during the course of
search and the additions were made by the AO while framing the assessments u/s 153A of the Act, the said additions need to be restricted or limited only to
incriminating material found during the course of search. However, in the present
case, no such incriminating material was found during the course of search from
the possession of the assessee. 118. A similar issue has been adjudicated by the ITAT Delhi Bench 'I-1', New Delhi
in the case of Granite Gate Properties Pvt. Ltd. Vs ACIT, Central Circle-6, New
Delhi in ITA Nos. 7022 to 7024/Del/2017 for the assessment years 2009-10 to 2011-12
vide order dated 29.05.2018 (supra) wherein one of us (Accountant Member) is
the author and it has been held vide paras 23 to 26 as under: 24. A similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Pr. CIT Vs Meeta Gutgutia Prop . M/s Ferns "N" Petals (2017) 395 ITR 526
(supra) wherein it has been held as under: 25. Similarly, their Lordships of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Pr. CIT Vs Ram Avtar Verma (2017) 395 ITR 252 (supra) observed as under: The Revenue urges that the non obstante clause in section 153A together with section 158BD removes the barrier vis-a-vis restriction upon search assessments
being confined to "undisclosed income". In other words, it is stated that none of 122 the provisions confine the enquiry of the Assessing Officer to evaluating
incriminating materials. This aspect, in the opinion of the court, was extensively
dealt with in CIT v. Kabul Chawla [2016] 380 ITR 573 (Delhi) which has, by now,
been followed consistently in several appeals. The non obstante clause, in the
opinion of the court, was necessary, given that there is a departure from the
preexisting provisions, which applied for the previous years and had a different
structure where two sets of assessment orders were made by the Assessing Officer
during block periods. With the unification of assessment years for the block
period, i.e. only one assessment order for each year in the block period, it was
necessary for an overriding provision of the kind actually adopted in section
153A . But for such a non obstante clause, the Revenue could possibly have
faced hurdles in regard to unadopted/current assessment years as well as
reassessment proceedings pending at the time of the search in respect of which
proceedings were to be completed under section 153A / 153C . Having regard to
the above directions, we are of the opinion that the Income-tax Appellate
Tribunal's decision does not call for interference. Both the appeals are
accordingly dismissed." 26. We, therefore, by keeping in view the ratio laid down in the aforesaid referred
to judicial pronouncements, are of the confirmed view that the impugned
addition made by the AO u/s 153A of the Act in the absence of any incriminating
material found during the course of search was not justified." 119. A similar view has also been taken by the ITAT Delhi Bench "C", New Delhi in
ITA Nos. 4256 to 4259/Del/2014 in the case of ACIT, Central Circle5, New Delhi Vs
M/s Gee Ispat Pvt. Ltd. (supra) (wherein one of us i.e. Accountant Member is the
Author) vide order dated 31.05.2018 wherein the relevant findings have been
given in paras 23 to 27 as under: 24. In the present case, since no incriminating material was found, therefore, the
addition made by the AO u/s 153A of the Act was not justified. 25. On an identical issue, the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT
Vs Kabul Chawla (2016) 380 ITR 573 (supra) held as under: 26. A similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Pr. CIT Vs Meeta Gutgutia Prop . M/s Ferns "N" Petals (2017) 395 ITR 526
(supra) wherein it has been held as under: 27. Similarly, their Lordships of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Pr. CIT Vs Ram Avtar Verma (2017) 395 ITR 252 (supra) observed as under: The Revenue urges that the non obstante clause in section 153A together with section 158BD removes the barrier visa-vis restriction upon search assessments
being confined to "undisclosed income". In other words, it is stated that none of
the provisions confine the enquiry of the Assessing Officer to evaluating
incriminating materials. This aspect, in the opinion of the court, was extensively
dealt with in CIT v. Kabul Chawla [2016] 380 ITR 573 (Delhi) which has, by now,
been followed consistently in several appeals. The non obstante clause, in the
opinion of the court, was necessary, given that there is a departure from the
preexisting provisions, which applied for the previous years and had a different
structure where two sets of assessment orders were made by the Assessing Officer
during block periods. With the unification of assessment years for the block
period, i.e. only one assessment order for each year in the block period, it was
necessary for an overriding provision of the kind actually adopted in section
153A . But for such a non obstante clause, the Revenue could possibly have
faced hurdles in regard to unadopted/current assessment years as well as
reassessment proceedings pending at the time of the search in respect of which
proceedings were to be completed under section 153A / 153C . Having regard to
the above directions, we are of the opinion that the Income-tax Appellate
Tribunal's decision does not call for interference. Both the appeals are
accordingly dismissed." 120. Similarly, the ITAT Delhi Bench 'E', New Delhi in the case of ACIT, Central
Circle-8, New Delhi Vs Meroform India Pvt. Ltd. in ITA Nos. 4630 to 4635/Del/2014
for the assessment years 2006-07 to 2011-12 (supra) vide order dated 31.07.2018
held in paras 14 & 15 as under: iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be strictly made on
the basis of evidence found in the course of the search, or other post-search
material or information available with the AO which can be related to the
evidence found, it does not mean that the assessment "can be arbitrary or made
without any relevance or nexus with the seized material. Obviously, an
assessment has to be made under this Section only on the basis of seized
material." v. In absence of any incriminating material, the completed assessment can be
reiterated and the abated assessment or reassessment can be made. The word
'assess' in Section 153 A is relatable to abated proceedings (i.e. those pending on
the date of search) and the word 'reassess' to completed assessment
proceedings. vi. Insofar as pending assessments are concerned, the jurisdiction to make the
original assessment and the assessment under Section 153A merges into one.
Only one assessment shall be made separately for each AY on the basis of the
findings of the search and any other material existing or brought on the record of
the AO. vii. Completed assessments can be interfered with by the AO while making the
assessment under Section 153 A only on the basis of some incriminating material
unearthed during the course of search or requisition of documents or undisclosed 126 income or property discovered in the course of search which were not produced
 or not already disclosed or made known in the course of original assessment." 15. The ratio laid down in the aforesaid judgment has been further reiterated on
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pr.CIT vs. (supra) vs Meeta Gutgutia
 and catena of other cases as referred above. In so far as judgments relied upon
 by the Ld. CIT DR, same may not have binding precedence for the reason that;
 firstly, most of the judgments are distinguishable; secondly, majority of the High
 Court judgments are in favour; and lastly, jurisdictional High Court in series of
 judgment has reiterated the same principle. Thus, in view of the settled
 proposition laid down by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court which is applicable
 on the facts of the present case also, we hold that all the additions made by the
 AO in the assessment years 2006-07, 2007-08 and 2008-09 are beyond the scope
 of assessment u/s 153A , because assessments for these assessment years had
 attained finality before the date of search and no incriminating material or seized
 documents were found qua these additions. Accordingly, additions made by the
 AO are quashed on this ground." 121. In the present case also, the AO made the additions on the basis of the
 statements of third parties recorded u/s 132(4) / 133A of the Act and third parties
 evidences/documentation. However, no live nexus with the incriminating material
 found in the course of search in the case of the assessee was established. The
 statements of the third parties were recorded behind the back of the assessee
 but the opportunity of cross-examination of such parties was not allowed to the
 assessee, even the statements were retracted later on. It is well settled that the
 presumption u/s 132(4A) / 292C of the Act, is available only in the case of the
 person in whose possession and control, the documents are found but it is not
 available in respect of the third parties. In the present case, there was no
 independent evidence to link the seized documents found in the premises of the
 third party with any incriminating material found in the course of search operation
 at the premises of the assessee. Therefore, the entries in the documents seized
 from third party's premises would not be sufficient to prove that the assessee was
 indulged in such transactions. In the present case, the pen drive of Sh. Ankur
 Agarwal corroborated/substantiated, the share transactions carried out by the
 assessee which were duly found recorded in the regular books of the assessee
 and the said pen drive did not contain anything incriminating against the
 assessee. Therefore, merely on the basis of the statement of Sh. Ankur Agarwal,
 the addition made u/s 153A of the Act was also not justified, particularly when Sh.
 Ankur Agarwal retracted his statement later on. In the instant case, the AO also
 failed to establish any link/nexus of the alleged cash trail. We, therefore, by
 considering the totality of the facts and the various judicial pronouncement
 discussed in the former part of this order are of the view that the additions made
 by the AO and sustained by the ld. CIT(A) u/s 153 A of the Act in the absence of
 any incriminating material found during the course of search u/s 132(1) of the Act
 in respect of unabated assessment years i.e. the assessment years 2010-11 to
 2012-13 were not justified. Accordingly, the same are deleted." So respectfully following the aforesaid referred to order dt. 31/10/2018 in
the case of Shri Brij Bhushan Singal & Others Vs. ACIT in ITA Nos. 1412 to
1414/Del/2018 & Others for the A.Y. 2010-11 to 2012-13, the additions made by
the A.O. under section 153A r.w.s 143(3) of the Act and sustained by the Ld. 127 CIT(A) in the absence of any incriminating material found during the course of
search under section 132(1) of the Act in respect of unabated assessment year
i.e; the A.Y. 2008-09, 2010-11 and 2012-13 were not justified. Accordingly the
same are deleted. 50. Since we have deleted the addition while deciding the legal issue raised
in Ground No. 1, no findings are being given on the issue raised on merits in
Ground Nos. 2 to 4. The facts for the other years in assessee's case and also in
the appeals relating to the another assessees are similar to the facts involved in
the case of the present assessee i.e; Sanjay Singal, therefore our findings given in
respect to the appeal in ITA No. 706/Chd/2018 shall apply mutatis mutandis to
the other appeals under consideration. 51. In the result appeals of the assessees are allowed. 5. -वभागीय त न4ध, आयकर अपील&य आ4धकरण, च7डीगढ़/ DR, ITAT, CHANDIGARH 6. गाड फाईल/ Guard File

 आदे शानस
 ु ार/ By order,
 सहायक पंजीकार/ Assistant Registrar