Through: Mr. Rohit Matoo, Advocate
 Mr. Abhishek Gupta, Advocate
 Mr. Zulkernain Choudhary, Advocate

Coram: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE TASHI RABSTAN, JUDGE
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE M.A. CHOWDHARY, JUDGE

Tashi Rabstan - Judge 1. Both these Letters Patent Appeals are directed against the judgment and

order dated 08.12.2022 delivered by the learned Single Judge in WP(C)

No.2580/2022, whereby the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition

filed by the writ petitioners. 2. Since both these appeals have arisen out of a common judgment,

involving common question of facts and law, as such both the appeals are

being decided by this common judgment. 2 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022 3. The facts as projected in the writ petition are that the Jammu and Kashmir

Service Selection Board (JKSSB) be directed not to conduct the examination

through M/S Aptech Limited being a blacklisted agency. It was averred in the

writ petition that earlier also the Jammu & Kashmir Service Selection Board

(JKSSB) ignoring the successful bidder, i.e., ND Info Systems Pvt. Ltd. gave

the contract to Merit Trac Services Pvt. Ltd., a blacklisted firm. Merit Tract

Services Pvt. Ltd. conducted the examinations of Junior Engineer (Civil), Jal

Shakti Department, Sub Inspector (Home Department) and also Finance

Account Assistants in the year 2022. However, due to various malpractices

occurred during the examinations in its various centers and leakage of papers,

the said examinations were scrapped by the JKSSB. The matter was

investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation, filed a charge sheet in

these natters but despite that the Jammu and Kashmir Service Selection Board

did not held Merit Trac Services Pvt. Ltd. accountable or blacklisted the

firm. 4. Now, the grievance of writ petitioners is that the Jammu and Kashmir

Service Selection Board overlooking this big scam issued fresh tender and after

manipulating certain conditions in the tender gave the tender to M/S Aptech

Ltd., which also has a tainted history, has already been accused of malpractices

in various examinations and has also been blacklisted previously. Fearing

unfair recruitment process, the writ petitioners first approached the Jammu and

Kashmir Service Selection Board by filing a representation on 04.11.2022, but

all in vain, which forced the writ petitioners to file WP(C) No.2580/2022

seeking to quash e-tender Notice No.19 of 2022 dated 30.09.2022 for conduct

of various examinations through Computer Based Test mode in favour of M/s
 3 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

Aptech Ltd. The learned Single Judge after hearing learned counsel appearing

for the parties, allowed the writ petition and passed the following directions: 5. Hence, the present two appeals on behalf of the Jammu and Kashmir

Service Selection Board as well as M/S Aptech Limited against the said

judgment. 6. Amongst other grounds, the preliminary ground raised by the appellants is

that the learned Single Judge on the very first date of hearing proceeded to

decide the writ petition finally without granting any opportunity to the

appellants to file objections to the writ petition. Learned counsel appearing for

appellants argued that they were under the impression that the arguments were
 4 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

being heard for the purposes of deciding the application for interim relief, as

the appellants were appearing before the Writ Court in the capacity of

caveators. Further, at no point of time learned counsel for appellants-writ

respondents had made a statement that the appellants-writ respondents did not

want to file reply or that the matter be decided on the basis of record only, as

the matters having huge repercussions and involving public interest cannot be

decided on the basis of record only or without seeking formal objections of the

parties. Therefore, the judgment impugned is contrary to the settled position of

law as also in conflict with the Writ Proceedings Rule, 1997. 7. Heard learned counsel appearing for the parties, considered their rival

contentions and also perused the appeal files. 8. Since it was vehemently argued by the learned counsel for appellants that

the writ petition was heard only for the limited purpose of granting interim

relief as well as for the purpose of consideration of admission of the writ

petition, and that the appellants had never understood that the matter was being

heard for the purpose of final consideration, also in view of the provisions of

Rules 14 and 15 of the Jammu & Kashmir Writ Proceedings Rules, 1997 it was

not open for the learned Single Judge to decide the petition finally unless

initially the Court had issued Rule Nisi, we deem it proper to refer to the

provisions of Rules 14 & 15 (supra) hereunder: 5 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

 (3) Every petition or application shall be listed in the next
 regular cause list. However, in case of urgency, the party may
 approach the court for relaxation of this period. In such case the
 petition shall be listed as per the direction of the Chief Justice or any
 other judge specifically authorized in this behalf by him. 15. (1) Upon being satisfied, the court may either issue rule nisi or
 notice for rule nisi or dismiss the petition. In case the court decides to
 adopt either of the two former courses, the opposite side shall file
 complete reply on the merits of the case within the time fixed by the
 court. In case no time is fixed by the court, the reply shall be filed
 within four weeks from the date of the order. The registry may,
 however, grant such further extension in time as he may deem fit upon
 being satisfied as to the genuineness of the request made for the
 purpose by the party concerned. Provided further that court may allow further extension as it
 may deem fit in the circumstances of the case and on being satisfied
 by the party, subject to conditions it may like to impose. (2) Every notice issued by the court shall be sent through
 registered post with acknowledgement due at the expenses of the
 petitioner or in any other manner as may be directed by the court. (3) Before filing the reply in the Registry, copy(s) of the same
 shall be served upon opposite party(s) personally or upon his counsel
 and signatures obtained on the original copy in token of the same
 being received. (4) No rejoinder to the petition shall be filed except with the
 leave of the court. (5) Upon making the order for rule nisi, the court may, upon
 application made, grant ex parte ad-interim relief to the petitioner as
 the justice of the case may require, upon such terms, if any, as it may,
 consider just and proper. Provided that an application for rule nisi
 involving laws relating to public revenue including taxation laws shall
 not be moved, unless the court otherwise directs, without serving three
 days prior to notice along with a copy of the application under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India and Section 103 of the Constitution of
 Jammu and Kashmir. (6) Notice of every such ex parte order shall be given to the
 party affected thereby and, unless the court has appointed a day for the
 return of the said notice, or otherwise directs, the Registrar shall fix a
 day for the return of the said notice and the application for interim
 relief shall be posted before the court for final orders on the date so
 fixed." 9. Rule 14 is regarding admission and listing of the writ petition. However,

if Rule 15 is carefully read, then it would be quite clear that when the petition
 6 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

is placed before the Court, the Court upon being satisfied is having two

options, i.e., the Court may either summarily dismiss the petition or order to

issue rule nisi to the opposite side, as it thinks fit and proper. If the Court is of

the opinion that a prima facie case is made out for granting the relief sought in

the writ petition, rule nisi is issued calling upon the person or persons against

whom the relief is sought to show cause as to why such relief should not be

granted. 10. In the instant case, according to the appellants-writ respondents, on the

very first date of the listing of writ petition, they being caveators-writ

respondents were under this impression that in terms of Rule 15 (supra) they

were arguing the matter before the Writ Court only against the granting of

interim relief and admission of the petition. Learned counsel appearing for

appellants-writ respondents submitted that it is not permissible under the rule

to dispose of a writ petition in favour of writ petitioners without allowing the

contesting writ respondents to file reply to the writ petition. Further, though the

learned Single Judge in paragraph-15 of the impugned judgment has stated that

with the consent of learned counsel for the parties, the writ petition was

admitted to final hearing and taken up for final disposal, yet, the fact of the

matter is that at no point of time learned counsel for appellants-writ

respondents had made a statement that the appellants-writ respondents did not

want to file reply or that the matter be decided on the basis of record only, that

too on the very first date of the listing of the writ petition. 11. We have considered in detail this technical aspect. We have gone through

the order when the writ petition came to be reserved on 30.11.2022 by the
 7 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

learned Single Judge and we deem it proper to reproduce the said order

hereunder: 12. A perusal of the order itself shows that when the matter was listed before

the learned Single Judge for the first time on 30.11.2022, no notice was issued

by the learned Single Judge to the opposite party. The writ respondents through

their counsel were appearing in the capacity of caveators and the learned

Single Judge without recording the statements of learned counsel for writ

respondents-caveators that the writ respondents-caveators do not intend to file

reply to the writ petition, reserved the matter. The order does not show whether

the matter had been reserved for passing order on interim relief or for finally

disposing of the writ petition. As such, we are of the view that the Writ Court

had no jurisdiction to finally dispose of the petition without first issuing notice

and affording an opportunity to the opposite side for filing reply on merits of

the case. 13. What is held by the Apex Court in paragraphs 5, 6 & 7 of the case, titled

as, Union of India vs Daya Ram , in Civil Appeal No.7409/1996, decided on

18.04.1996, is reproduced hereunder: 14. Similarly, a Division Bench of this Court in a case, titled as, Jammu Dev. Authority vs Bhag Din , in LPA(OW) No.3/2003 along with connected matters,

decided on 02.12.2003, held on the same lines, relevant portion of paragraph-

15 whereof is reproduced hereunder: 15. Therefore, in view of what has been discussed above, we, without

discussing the merits of the case, deem it proper to dispose of the appeals and

remit the writ petition back to the Writ Court for deciding the matter afresh. 9 LPAs 141/2022 & 149/2022

Ordered accordingly. Accordingly, the order and judgment impugned is hereby

set aside, the writ petition is restored to its original number and the writ

petition is remitted back to the learned Single Judge with a request to decide

the matter afresh. Writ respondents through their learned counsel are directed

to file objections/counter to the writ petition within two weeks from today,

thereafter, rejoinder, if any, to be filed within next one week. Registry is

directed to list the writ petition before the learned Single Judge on 5th of April,

2023, when the learned Single Judge is requested to finally decide the writ

petition. Till then interim direction dated 09.12.2022 shall remain in force. 16. Appeals stand disposed of along with connected miscellaneous CMs.