https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 This writ petition was originally filed seeking a mandamus restraining the

 first respondent from harassing the petitioner baselessly without addressing its

 grievance petition and refund claim pending before the respondents. The

 respondents are officials of the Director General of Goods and Service Tax (R1,

 R2, R3 and R5), the writ petition having been given up qua R4 on 04.06.2020. On

 25.08.2020, the request of the petitioner for amendment of prayer was allowed,

 recording no objection to the same by Mr.V.Sundareswaran. 2.The amended prayer is for a mandamus restraining R1 and R2 from

 demanding any amount from the petitioner except by following the due process of

 law and a further direction to refund a sum of Rs.2 crores along with statutory

 interest under the provisions of the Central Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 (in

 short ‘Act’) and return the documents seized at the time of search on 22.10.2019.

 Post amendment, pleadings have been completed and detailed submissions of the

 parties have been heard. 3.The petitioner is registered as a Small Scale Industry under the MSME

 Act and is an assessee under the provisions of the Goods and Service Tax Act,

 2017 (Act). An investigation was conducted in the premises of the petitioner on

 22.10.2019 and various documents and registers seized. In the course of that 3 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 investigation, a statement was recorded from one S.A.Kumar, who has also

 deposed to the affidavit filed in support of this writ petition, to the effect that the

 petitioner has not discharged its GST liability correctly. In the statement, he

 accepts the mistakes in completion of GST and assures the respondents that the

 liability would be discharged at the earliest with applicable interest. A scheme of

 payment has also been set out for the tax remaining unpaid, as follows: immediately on the same day i.e.22-10-2019 under the influence of coercion,
 threat and in a state of panic without providing any workings of determination of
 tax liability; 14) It has been 15 days from the date of search and yet your office has not
 provided us with the workings of actual determination of tax liability despite
 receiving frequent follow up calls from your office on enquiry of discharge of tax
 liability for which we are not bound to make any payment as per the provisions of CGST Act, 2017 ; 5 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 15) Based on the above facts, we would like to bring to your notice that
 Shri.S.A.Kumar signed the MAHAZAR and paid an amount of Rs.2,00,000/-
 under the influence of coercion, threat and in a state of panic without giving an
 opportunity to read the content of the Mahazar and without providing the
 workings of the actual determination of tax liability;
 ........ 6. Thus, the petitioner has stated that it has no liability to tax, that the MD

 and officials were forced to accept liability to tax and the admission was, by no

 means, voluntary. The petitioner has also made serious allegations about the high

 handedness of the authorities during the conduct of search and the scant regard

 expressed for the sentiments of the family of the Managing Director and

 employees of the petitioner. They state that the visit was on the eve of Deepavali

 and investigation was carried out in an intrusive and acrimonious fashion. The

 petitioner, leave alone celebrating the festival, could not even disburse bonus and

 gifts to its employees. In all, not just high handedness, but also malafides is

 attributed in the conduct of the proceedings. 7.The aforesaid allegations have been strenuously denied by the

 respondents. According to the respondents, the petitioner has been engaging in

 large scale tax evasion and has not been paying tax that it is legitimately bound to

 pay. It was for this reason that it had voluntarily offered to remit tax. The very fact

 that the petitioner had remitted not one but two instalments of tax would reveal 6 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 that the payments were voluntary as, if they had been coerced as alleged, the

 payments would have stopped with the first instalment. They would also state that

 there has been no co-operation extended by the petitioner in the proceedings for

 enquiry and no appearances/compliance with the summons issued and it is for this

 reason that the proceedings for investigation are being delayed. 8.As far as the investigation is itself concerned, I had passed an order on

 17.12.2020 recording the agreement of both parties to the effect that the

 investigation could continue on three days i.e. 29.12.2020, 30.12.2020 and

 31.12.2020 and the petitioner will appear and co-operate in the conduct of the

 enquiry. There has been compliance of this order and some progress in enquiry.

 However, post these dates, differences appear to have cropped up again in regard

 to whether the petitioner has complied with the notices for submission of material.

 While the respondents state that certain material particulars, such as invoices

 containing the brand name of the products dealt with have not been supplied, the

 petitioner would aver to the contrary. I am not inclined to enter this arena of

 conflict as it involves disputed questions of fact and as it is for the parties to

 follow proper procedure for the of completion of assessment smoothly and in line

 with the statutory provisions. Suffice it to say that it is for the revenue to afford a 7 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 full and fair hearing to the assessee and for the assessee to appear when

 summoned and furnish full available material to facilitate the completion of

 assessment. In the absence of such co-operation the revenue will be justified in

 completing the assessment in accordance with law. 9.Mr.Sundareswaran confirms that the completion of proceedings for

 investigation leading to the issuance of show cause notice, will take, not less than

 six months. It is in these circumstances that the petitioner presses the mandamus

 seeking refund of the amount of Rs.2 crores paid at the time of investigation.

 According to the respondents, the amounts have been paid in line with the

 schedule of payments voluntarily suggested by the petitioner and as such there is

 no justification whatsoever for seeking such refund. Though I am only concerned

 with the legal issue of whether the collection of any amount during the process of

 investigation is statutorily permitted, some facts would have to be adverted to in

 deciding this issue. 10.The petitioner is a dealer in pulses, dhals and flour and manufactures

 food products, grain mill products and dhal. The dispute revolves around the short

 compass of whether the products sold are branded or unbranded. If unbranded,

 then there is no liability to GST. While the petitioner use the trade marksShivam, 8 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 Trishul, Cycle and Nandhi, they claim that these are not registered marks and

 moreover that the petitioner voluntarily forgoes any actionable claim or

 enforceable right in regard to the usage of the aforesaid marks. An affidavit dated

 29.09.2017 has been filed to this effect in terms of Clause (b) of Annexure to

 Schedule VI of CGST rates for Goods. This affidavit is filed before the Assessing

 Officer and not the jurisdictional Commissioner and Mr.Sundareswaran would

 contend that the Statute specifically requires that such affidavit be filed only

 before the Jurisdictional Commissioner, thus disentitling the petitioner to any

 benefit thereunder. 11. This is a matter of assessment and the veracity or otherwise of the

 affidavit filed by the petitioner on 29.09.2017 will have to be tested by the

 Assessing Authority in the course of the assessment itself. 12. The legal issue raised is as to whether the petitioner is entitled to the

 refund of the amounts paid during investigation and the revenue relies upon the

 provisions of Section 74(5) of the Act. It would be relevant, in this context, to

 understand the Scheme of assessment as set out under Section 74 and for this

 purpose, I extract Section 74 in full below: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been paid or short
 paid or erroneously refunded or where input tax credit has been wrongly availed
 or utilised by reason of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts to
 evade tax, he shall serve notice on the person chargeable with tax which has not
 been so paid or which has been so short paid or to whom the refund has
 erroneously been made, or who has wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit,
 requiring him to show cause as to why he should not pay the amount specified in
 the notice along with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty
 equivalent to the tax specified in the notice. (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under sub-section (1) at least six
 months prior to the time limit specified in sub-section (10) for issuance of order.

 (3) Where a notice has been issued for any period under sub-section (1), the
 proper officer may serve a statement, containing the details of tax not paid or
 short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised
 for such periods other than those covered under sub-section (1), on the person
 chargeable with tax. (4) The service of statement under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be service of
 notice under sub-section (1) of section 73 , subject to the condition that the grounds
 relied upon in the said statement, except the ground of fraud, or any wilful-
 misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, for periods other than those
 covered under sub-section (1) are the same as are mentioned in the earlier notice.

 (5) The person chargeable with tax may, before service of notice under sub-section
 (1), pay the amount of tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a
 penalty equivalent to fifteen per cent. of such tax on the basis of his own
 ascertainment of such tax or the tax as ascertained by the proper officer and
 inform the proper officer in writing of such payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information, shall not serve any notice
 under sub-section (1), in respect of the tax so paid or any penalty payable under
 the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.

 (7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the amount paid under sub-
 section (5) falls short of the amount actually payable, he shall proceed to issue the
 notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of such amount which falls
 short of the amount actually payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-section (1) pays the said tax
 along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to twenty-
 five per cent. of such tax within thirty days of issue of the notice, all proceedings in
 respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be concluded. 10 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 (9) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if any, made by
 the person chargeable with tax, determine the amount of tax, interest and penalty
 due from such person and issue an order. (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (9) within a period
 of five years from the due date for furnishing of annual return for the financial
 year to which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit wrongly availed or
 utilised relates to or within five years from the date of erroneous refund.

 (11) Where any person served with an order issued under sub-section (9) pays the
 tax along with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty equivalent
 to fifty per cent. of such tax within thirty days of communication of the order, all
 proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be concluded.

 Explanation 1.— For the purposes of section 73 and this section,— (i) the expression "all proceedings in respect of the said notice" shall not include
 proceedings under section 132 ; (ii) where the notice under the same proceedings is issued to the main person
 liable to pay tax and some other persons, and such proceedings against the main
 person have been concluded under section 73 or section 74 , the proceedings
 against all the persons liable to pay penalty under sections 122 , 125 , 129 and 130 are deemed to be concluded. Explanation 2.–– For the purposes of this Act, the expression "suppression" shall
 mean non-declaration of facts or information which a taxable person is required
 to declare in the return, statement, report or any other document furnished under
 this Act or the rules made thereunder, or failure to furnish any information on
 being asked for, in writing, by the proper officer. 13. Section 74 provides for a determination of tax not paid or short paid or

 erroneously refunded or the wrongful availment or utilization of Input Tax Credit

 (ITC) by reason of fraud, willful misstatement or suppression of facts. Sub-

 section (1) states that if the officer feels that the aforesaid circumstances arise in

 any case, he shall issue a show cause notice to the person concerned calling for an

 explanation in this regard and also proposing interest under Section 50 and penalty 11 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 equivalent to the tax proposed to be levied. Sub-section (2) states that the notice

 shall be issued at least six months prior to the time limit specified in Section

 74(10) for issuance of the order of assessment. 14.Sub-section (3) states that where a notice has been issued under sub-

 section (1), it shall be supported by a statement containing the details of tax

 unpaid, short paid or erroneously refunded or ITC wrongly availed or utilized for

 such purpose other than those covered under sub-section (1) of Section 73 .

 According to sub-section (4), the statement referred to is the same as in sub-

 section (3) of Section 73 , however additionally mentioning as a pre-condition the

 alleged fraud, willful misstatement or suppression of facts with the intention to

 evade tax. 15.Sub-section (5) read with sub-section (6), which is critical to the present

 case, provides the first opportunity to an assessee for an amicable settlement of an

 assessment before the authorities. It states that an assessee may, prior to receipt of

 notice under sub-section (1), pay the tax along with interest under section 50 and

 penalty equivalent to 15% of such tax, on the basis of a self-ascertainment or as

 ascertained by the proper officer under information to him. On receipt of the

 information, sub-section (6) provides that no show cause notice shall be served 12 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 under section 74(1) in respect of the tax and interest. The provisions of sub-

 section (5) and (6) of Section 74 thus provide an opportunity for the assessee

 and/or the revenue to ascertain the proper amount of tax, interest and penalty and,

 even in cases where there might have been a shadow of misdeclaration/short

 payment of tax or wrongful availment or utilization of ITC, a closure of the

 proceedings at that stage on the basis of either a self-ascertainment by an assessee

 and acceptance of the same by the revenue or vice versa. 16. Where there is no such closure as contemplated under sub-sections (5)

 and (6), sub-section (7) provides for an avenue to the revenue to continue the

 proceedings. It states that where the proper officer, on receipt of the self-

 ascertainment believes that such ascertainment is incorrect and the amount falls

 short of the amount actually payable, he shall proceed to issue a show cause notice

 as provided for under sub-section (1). Sub-section (8) states that an assessee,

 when confronted with the show cause notice under sub-section (1), may opt for

 payment of the entire tax, interest under Section 50 and penalty equivalent to 25%

 of such tax within 30 days of issue of the notice. This is the second avenue

 available to the assessee and the revenue for amicable conclusion of the

 proceedings. 13 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 17. Sub-section (9) states that if an objection/response is filed to the show

 cause notice, then, after considering such objection, the Officer will determine the

 amount of tax, interest and penalty due from the person and issue an order-in-

 original and sub-section (10) provides for the time limit for issuance of such order. 18. Sub-section (11) states that any person served with an order-in-original

 under sub-section (9) has the option of remitting the tax and interest along with

 penalty amounting to 50% of such tax, within 30 days of communication of the

 order, in which case, all proceedings in respect of that notice shall stand concluded

 then and there. This consciously opens the door for a contest as the assessee, had it

 been inclined to settle matters amicably, would/should have chosen the avenues

 presented to it under sub-sections (5) and (8) and (11) of Section 74 . Henceforth,

 an adversarial and contested position emerges. This, in my understanding, is the

 scheme of assessment under Section 74 . 19.The remittance under Section 74(5) is in terms of Rule 142 of the Central

 Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 (in short ‘Rules’) and has to be made in

 Form GST DRC-03. Both the Rule and the Form (the latter as executed by the

 petitioner) are extracted below: (1A) The proper officer shall, before service of notice to the person chargeable with
 tax, interest and penalty, under sub-section (1) of Section 73 or sub-section (1) of Section 74 , as the case may be, shall communicate the details of any tax, interest and
 penalty as ascertained by the said officer, in Part A of FORM GST DRC-01A.

 (2) Where, before the service of notice or statement, the person chargeable with tax
 makes payment of the tax and interest in accordance with the provisions of sub-
 section (5) of section 73 or, as the case may be, tax, interest and penalty in
 accordance with the provisions of sub-section (5) of section 74 , or where any person
 makes payment of tax, interest, penalty or any other amount due in accordance with
 the provisions of the Act whether on his own ascertainment or, as communicated by
 the proper officer under subrule (1A),]he shall inform the proper officer of such
 payment in FORM GST DRC-03 and the proper officer shall issue an
 acknowledgement, accepting the payment made by the said person in FORM GST
 DRC–04. [(2A) Where the person referred to in sub-rule (1A) has made partial payment of the
 amount communicated to him or desires to file any submissions against the
 proposed liability, he may make such submission in Part B of FORM GST DRC-01A.

 (3) Where the person chargeable with tax makes payment of tax and interest under
 subsection (8) of section 73 or, as the case may be, tax, interest and penalty under
 sub-section (8) of section 74 within thirty days of the service of a notice under sub-
 rule (1), or where the person concerned makes payment of the amount referred to in
 sub-section (1) of section 129 within fourteen days of detention or seizure of the
 goods and conveyance, he shall intimate the proper officer of such payment in
 FORM GST DRC-03 and the proper officer shall issue an order in FORM GST
 DRC-05 concluding the proceedings in respect of the said notice.

 (4) The representation referred to in sub-section (9) of section 73 or sub-section (9)
 of section 74 or sub-section (3) of section 76 or the reply to any notice issued under
 any section whose summary has been uploaded electronically in FORM GST DRC-
 01 under sub-rule (1) shall be furnished in FORM GST DRC-06.

 (5) A summary of the order issued under section 52 or section 62 or section 63 or section 64 or section 73 or section 74 or section 75 or section 76 or section 122 or 15 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 section 123 or section 124 or section 125 or section 127 or section 129 or section
 130 shall be uploaded electronically in FORM GST DRC-07, specifying therein the
 amount of tax, interest and penalty payable by the person chargeable with tax.

 (6) The order referred to in sub-rule (5) shall be treated as the notice for recovery.

 (7) Where a rectification of the order has been passed in accordance with the
 provisions of section 161 or where an order uploaded on the system has been
 withdrawn, a summary of the rectification order or of the withdrawal order shall be
 uploaded electronically by the proper officer in FORM GST DRC-08. FORM GST DRC- 03
 [See rule 142(2) & 142 (3)]
 Intimation of payment made voluntarily or made against the show cause notice (SCN) or statement 1. GSTIN 33AACCN9858N1ZR 2. Name SHRI NANDHI DHALL MILLS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED 3. Cause of Payment Voluntary 4. Section under which voluntary payment is made 74(5) Voluntary 5. Details of show cause notice, if payment is made Reference No.: N.A. Date Of issue : N.A.
 within 30 days of its issue 6. Financial Year 2017-2018 7. Details of payment made including interest and penalty, if applicable (Amount in Rs.)
 Sr. Tax Act Place Tax/ Cess Interes Penalty, Other Total Ledger Debit entry no. Date
 No Period of t if s utilize of
 . suppl applicabl d entry
 y e (Cash/
 (POS) Credit) 1. JUL CGST Tamil 50,00,000.0 0 0 0 50,00,000.0 cash DC331019034180 N.A. 2017- Nadu 0 0 2 MAR 2018 2. JUL SGST Tamil 50,00,000.0 0 0 0 50,00,000.0 cash DC331019034180 N.A. 2017- Nadu 0 0 2 MAR 2018 8.Reasons, if any- Part Payment of CGST and SGST liability for the period from July 2017 to Sep 2019 – 1st
 installment paid voluntarily, as per the investigation of DGGI, Trichy Regional Unit. 9. Verification- I hereby solemnly affirm and declare that the information given hereinabove is true and correct to the best of my
 knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed therefrom. 20.The revenue points out that the payment is ‘voluntary’ as per the form

 above and the same procedure has been followed in regard to the second

 instalment as well. 16 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 21. The petitioner has relied on the following decisions in support of its

 contention that any amount collected during investigation should be refunded in

 the absence of any determination of demand as against the concerned assessee: 22. According to the revenue, the above decisions have been rendered in the

 context of the erstwhile Central Excise and Service Tax Enactments where there

 was no express statutory provision for collection of an amount during

 investigation whereas the present remittances have been made in line with Section

 74(5) and are hence permitted statutorily. Prior to the inception of the GST Act,

 instances were rife when officials of DRI and Customs Department were infamous

 for collecting advance payments of tax from assesses, many a time under coercion,

 and in the course of investigation itself. There are several decisions of Courts

 wherein such acts have been frowned upon, with Courts consistently holding that 17 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 no amounts may be collected prior to an actual determination of an amount

 payable by an assessee. With the inception of Section 74(5) , it is the case of the

 revenue that the collection of amounts in advance has attained statutory sanction,

 provided the same are voluntary in Form GST-DR03. 23. Thus, according to the revenue, the remittances made by the petitioner

 during investigation in terms of Section 74(5) amount to ‘self- ascertainment’.

 Having remitted two instalments of the tax as per its own ascertainment, it cannot

 now pray for a mandamus seeking refund of the amount. After all, revenue

 argues, the petitioner is well aware of the fact that its transactions are liable to tax

 and any remittances effected would be adjusted against final tax liability. 24. The basis of this argument is flawed as I am not in agreement with the

 submission that Section 74(5) is a statutory sanction for advance tax payment,

 pending final determination in assessment. In my view, this is contrary to the

 scheme of assessment set out under Section 74 , as I have noticed in paragraphs 12

 to 16 above. 25. The ratio of the decisions relied by the petitioner and several more

 besides, are to the effect that no collection can be insisted upon prior to a final

 determination of liability being made. These decisions, in my view, still hold the 18 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 field. What Section 74(5) provides is the first opportunity to an assessee to pay

 tax, interest and penalty liability even prior to the issuance of a show cause notice

 and such acceptance will have to be in the form of either self-ascertainment or an

 ascertainment by the proper officer. 26. Records were summoned to examine whether there was an

 ascertainment in this case. The records revealed the tabulation of instalments

 furnished by the assessee at the time of recording of statement and out of which

 the first two instalments have been paid. These, according to Mr.Sundareswaran

 constitute self-ascertainment and trigger the provisions of Section 74(5) and (7).

 Had this been the position, the records must contain material to show that (i) the

 assessee accepts the ascertainment made by it and (ii) the revenue has applied its

 mind and arrived at the position that the self-ascertainment by the assessee is

 inadequate. However, statement recorded at the time of search admitting GST

 liability and setting the scheme of instalments have been retracted by the petitioner

 on 05.11.2019 and the petitioner has consistently and vehemently been contested

 the liability to tax. With this, the requirement of ‘ascertainment’ under Section

 74(5) , fails. Merely because an assessee has, under the stress of investigation,

 signed a statement admitting tax liability and has also made a few payments as per 19 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 the statement, cannot lead to self-assessment or self-ascertainment. The

 ascertainment contemplated under Section 74(5) is of the nature of self-assessment

 and amounts to a determination by it which is unconditional, and not one that is

 retracted as in the present case. Had such ascertainment/self-assessment had been

 made, there would be no further proceedings contemplated, as Section 74(6) states

 that with ascertainment of demand in Section 74(5) , no proceedings for show

 cause under Section 74(1) shall be issued. In this case, enquiry and investigation

 are on-going, personal hearings have been afforded and both the parties are fully

 geared towards issuing/receiving a show cause notice and taking matters forward.

 Thus, the understanding and application of Section 74(5) in this case, is, in my

 view, wholly misconceived. 27. In this context I may usefully extract from a decision in the case of

 Clear trip Private Ltd. and Ors. (supra), wherein a Bench of the Bombay High

 Court at paragraph 16 holds as follows: Secondly, there is no question of any recovery of tax by coercive means, unless
 the investigation results into issuance of a show cause notice, an opportunity to
 the Petitioner to resist the demand, a adjudication thereof by a reasoned order
 and protective remedies such as appeals. We do not think that any recovery by
 coercive measures is straightway permissible and particularly in the given facts
 and circumstances of the case. 28. In SCA.No.3196 of 2021 pending before the Gujarat High Court in the

 case of M/s.Bhumi Associate vs. Union of India through the Secretary, the Court

 has formulated the following guidelines for resolution and the matter is still

 pending consideration. “The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs as well as the Chief
 Commissioner of Central/ State Tax of the State of Gujarat are hereby directed to
 issue the following guidelines by way of suitable circular/instructions: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 (2) Even if the assessee comes forward to make voluntary payment by
 filing Form DRC03, the assessee should be asked/ advised to file such Form
 DRC03 on the next day after the end of search proceedings and after the officers
 of the visiting team have left the premises of the assessee.

 (3) Facility of filing complaint/ grievance after the end of search proceedings
 should be made available to the assessee if the assessee was forced to
 make payment in any mode during the pendency of the search proceedings.

 (4) If complaint/ grievance is filed by assessee and officer is found to have acted
 in defiance of the aforestated directions, then strict disciplinary action should be
 initiated against the concerned officer.” 29. In the light of the discussion as above, the mandamus as sought for by

 the petitioner is granted. The amount of Rs.2.00 crores collected shall be refunded

 to the petitioner within a period of four (4) weeks from today. 30. This Writ Petition is allowed. No costs. Connected Miscellaneous

 Petition is closed. 07.04.2021
 vs/sl
 Index: Yes
 Speaking order

 To 22 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 1.Senior Intelligence Officer,
 Director General of Goods and Service Tax,
 Trichy Regional Unit,
 No.10B/5, First Street, Jaya Nagar,
 KK Nagar Post,
 Trichy – 620 021. 2.Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax,
 Trichy Regional Unit,
 No.10B/5, First Street, Jaya Nagar,
 KK Nagar Post,
 Trichy – 620 021. 3.Directorate General-South Zone,
 Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax,
 C-3, C-Wing, II Floor,
 Rajaji Bhawan, Besant Nagar,
 Chennai-600 090. 4.Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax,
 Intelligence (HQ),
 West Block – 8, Wing No.6, 2nd Floor,
 R.K.Puram, New Delhi – 110066. 23 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 DR. ANITA SUMANTH, J. vs/sl

 W.P. No.5192 of 2020 and WMP. No.6135 of 2020 07.04.2021 24 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P. No.5192 of 2020 25 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/