Learned counsel for the rival parties are heard through video

conferencing. This is first application u/S.438 Cr.P.C. for grant of anticipatory

bail by the petitioner. Petitioner apprehends arrest in connection with offence punishable

u/Ss.354(GHA) IPC and u/S.67(A) Information Technology Act

registered as Crime No.114/2020 by Police Station Cyber Cell Kampoo,

District Gwalior (M.P.). Learned counsel for the State opposed the application and prayed

for its rejection by contending that on the basis of the allegations and the

material available on record, no case for grant of anticipatory bail is

made out. Present is a first application preferred by the petitioner u/S.438 Cr.P.C. for anticipatory bail where arrest is apprehended in respect of

offence of stalking and the offence punishable u/S 67(A) Information
 2 Mcrc.42229.2020

Technology Act with the allegation that the petitioner had sent obscene

messages to the prosecutrix aged about 19 years. When the case was

reported by the prosecutrix to the cyber cell of police, it undertook an

enquiry and found that the messages had been sent from the petitioner's

mobile. Prima facie, the offence as alleged appears to be made out and

therefore no case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out. However, looking to the fact that since the offence in question

attracts punishment upto 7 years and therefore, in view of the principles

laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar Vs. State

of Bihar (2014) 8 SCC 273, It is directed that in offences involving

punishment upto seven years imprisonment the police may resort to the

extreme step of arrest only when the same is necessary and the petitioner

does not cooperate in the investigation. The petitioner should first be

summoned to cooperate in the investigation. If the petitioner cooperates

in the investigation then the occasion of his arrest should not arise. For ready reference and convenience the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar (Supra) are

enumerated below:- 3 Mcrc.42229.2020

years with or without fine, cannot be arrested by the
police officer only on his satisfaction that such person
had committed the offence punishable as aforesaid. A
police officer before arrest, in such cases has to be
further satisfied that such arrest is necessary to prevent
such person from committing any further offence; or for
proper investigation of the case; or to prevent the
accused from causing the evidence of the offence to
disappear; or tampering with such evidence in any
manner; or to prevent such person from making any
inducement, threat or promise to a witness so as to
dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or
the police officer; or unless such accused person is
arrested, his presence in the court whenever required
cannot be ensured. These are the conclusions, which one
may reach based on facts. 7.2. The law mandates the police officer to state the facts
and record the reasons in writing which led him to come
to a conclusion covered by any of the provisions
aforesaid, while making such arrest. The law further
requires the police officers to record the reasons in
writing for not making the arrest. 7.3. In pith and core, the police officer before arrest
must put a question to himself, why arrest? Is it really
required ? What purpose it will serve ? What object it
will achieve ? It is only after these questions are
addressed and one or the other conditions as enumerated
above is satisfied, the power of arrest needs to be
exercised. Before arrest first the police officers should
have reason to believe on the basis of information and
material that the accused has committed the offence.
Apart from this, the police officer has to be satisfied
further that the arrest is necessary for one or the more
purposes envisaged by sub-clauses (a) to (e) of clause
(1) of Section 41 Cr.P.C. 9. Another provision i.e. Section 41-A Cr.P.C. aimed to
avoid unnecessary arrest or threat of arrest looming large
on the accused requires to be vitalized. This provision
makes it clear that in all cases where the arrest of a
 4 Mcrc.42229.2020

 person is not required under Section 41(1) Cr.P.C., the
 police officer is required to issue notice directing the
 accused to appear before him at a specified place and
 time. Law obliges such an accused to appear before the
 police officer and it further mandates that if such an
 accused complies with the terms of notice he shall not be
 arrested, unless for reasons to be recorded, the police
 officer is of the opinion that the arrest is necessary. At
 this stage also, the condition precedent for arrest as
 envisaged under Section 41 Cr.P.C. has to be complied
 and shall be subject to the same scrutiny by he
 Magistrate as aforesaid. In view of above and considering the principles laid down by the

 Apex Court in the case of Arnesh Kumar (Supra), this Court is inclined

 to direct thus: With the aforesaid directions, the present anticipatory bail

 application stands disposed of. Certified copy as per rules. (Sheel Nagu)
 Judge

 pd
PAWAN Digitally signed by PAWAN DHARKAR DN: c=IN, o=HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH GWALIOR, ou=HIGH COURT OF DHARK MADHYA PRADESH BENCH
 GWALIOR, postalCode=474011,
 st=Madhya Pradesh,
 2.5.4.20=345b3604d572ed9dd149

AR
 2fe82dc3b1eef67eff2cb59f3ac97e9
 20ac264de7828, cn=PAWAN
 DHARKAR
 Date: 2020.11.07 17:46:14 +05'30'