% 22.12.2025

 CRL.M.A. 38411/2025 (exemption) 1. Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. Application stands disposed of. W.P.(CRL) 4268/2025 3. The present petition has been filed seeking following relief: A. That this Hon'ble Court issue an appropriate writ directing
 Respondent No. 1 to frame and lay down guidelines in exercise of
 its powers under Section 79(2)(c) read with Section 87(2)(zg) of the
 Information Technology Act to ensure that censorship or disabling

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/12/2025 at 20:34:30
 of social media accounts is carried out only in accordance with Articles 14 , 19 , and 21 of the Constitution, and that complaints of
 cyber bullying, harassment, identity theft, and malicious reporting
 are effectively investigated and forwarded to competent police
 stations. B. That this Hon'ble Court issue an appropriate writ directing
 Respondent No. 2 to investigate and take appropriate action
 through due process against individuals responsible for unlawful
 reporting, cyber harassment, and malicious takedown requests, and
 to register FIRs where necessary. C. That this Hon'ble Court issue an appropriate writ directing
 Respondent No. 3 to immediately restore the Petitioner's Instagram
 and Facebook accounts and not suspend or disable the same in
 future without following the principles of natural justice, including
 prior notice, disclosure of alleged violations, and opportunity of
 response. 4. At the oustet, Mr. Sarthak Maggon, learned counsel for the petitioner
 fairly states that he is not pressing for prayer clause (a) in the present
 petition. 5. Essentially, the grievance of the petitioner in the present petition is
 with regard to suspension of petitioner's Instagram and Facebook account
 on different dates, and non-investigation of the same by respondent no.3. 6. Mr. Sanjeev Bhandari, learned ASC for the State/respondent no.2, on
 instructions, submits that the petitioner is stated to have made a complaint
 before the Grievance Officer of respondent no.3. 7. Ms. Amee Rana, learned counsel for respondent no.3 submits that in
 case the petitioner will share the registration number of his complaint along
 with Facebook URL, the grievance of the petitioner will be looked into. The
 statement of respondent no.3 is taken on record and it shall remain bound by
 the same. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/12/2025 at 20:34:30 8. Mr. Maggon submits that he will do the needful. 9. In view of the above statement, no further orders are pressed by Mr.
 Maggon at this stage. 10. The petition stands disposed of. VIKAS MAHAJAN, J
 DECEMBER 22, 2025/dss

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/12/2025 at 20:34:30