1. The petitioner, incarcerating upon his arrest in the FIR captioned above,
came up before this Court under Section 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. In Para 18 of the bail application, the petitioner declares no criminal
history. The State also does not mention any criminal antecedents of the accused. 3. It is for the first time that the petitioner has approached this Court for
regular bail. 4. A brief narration of allegations relevant in deciding the present petition is
that on 14.06.2021, the complainant gave a written complaint to SSP, Hisar in
which he alleged that fraud has been played upon him in the name of Mudra loan.
He stated that he is Government teacher and on 19.03.2021, he received a text
message about the sanctioning of the loan from mobile No.078279-57878
Subsequently, another call was received from mobile No.072920-27119. The
person told her name as Neha Sharma and stated that documents are required to
sanction the loan and asked him to send the same on her whatsapp
No.8527183129 and mobile Id [email protected] . Subsequently, they kept
on befooling him. He also received call from mobile no.72920-23380 and being
told by one Rakesh that loan of Rs.22 lacs has been sanctioned in his favour. They
demanded process fee deposit in the account. Subsequently, he kept on befooling

 1 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 24-12-2021 00:22:15 ::: CRM-M-51985-2021 2 him and the complainant paid total sum of Rs.3,21,823/-. Later on he realised
that he has been cheated upon. During the course of the investigation, police
found the involvement of the present petitioner-Amit Kumar and he was arrested. 5. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner is a first offender
and the case is triable by the Magistrate. He further states that the pre-trial
incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 6. The contention on behalf of the State on instructions received from
Inspector Rajpal Singh is that offences are heinous affecting social fabric. Hence,
they have opposed the bail. REASONING: 7. The petitioner is a young boy aged 22 years and has already incarcerated for
more than two months. Although the role of the petitioner is highly condemnable
but complainant being a Government teacher was supposed to be more careful,
cautious and reasonable rather than a less educated person getting entrapped by
fraudsters. The accused cannot be blamed only as complainant kept on
transferring money time and again. This shows the desire of the complainant to
get soft loan. Be that as it may, as per Para No.8 of the petition, co-accused Vikas
and Anil have already been granted bail by the trial Court. Further, the petitioner
is in custody since 28.09.2021 coupled with the fact that the mother of the
petitioner, who is 80 years of age and is suffering from age related ailments,
requires his constant supervision, this Court grants the bail to the petitioner. 8. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v State of Punjab , 1980 (2) SCC 565, (Para 30), a
Constitutional Bench of Supreme Court held that the bail decision must enter the
cumulative effect of the variety of circumstances justifying the grant or refusal of
bail. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v Rajesh Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav , 2005 (2) SCC
42, (Para 18) a three-member Bench of Supreme Court held that the persons
accused of non-bailable offences are entitled to bail if the Court concerned
concludes that the prosecution has failed to establish a prima facie case against
him, or despite the existence of a prima facie case, the Court records reasons for
its satisfaction for the need to release such person on bail, in the given fact
situations. The rejection of bail does not preclude filing a subsequent application.
The courts can release on bail, provided the circumstances then prevailing
requires, and a change in the fact situation. In State of Rajasthan v Balchand , AIR
1977 SC 2447, (Para 2 & 3), Supreme Court noticeably illustrated that the basic
rule might perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail, except where there are
circumstances suggestive of fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice

 2 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 24-12-2021 00:22:15 ::: CRM-M-51985-2021 3 or creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating
witnesses and the like by the petitioner who seeks enlargement on bail from the
Court. It is true that the gravity of the offence involved is likely to induce the
petitioner to avoid the course of justice and must weigh when considering the
question of jail. So also, the heinousness of the crime. In GudikantiNarasimhulu v
Public Prosecutor, (1978) 1 SCC 240, (Para 16), Supreme Court held that the
delicate light of the law favors release unless countered by the negative criteria
necessitating that course. In Prahlad Singh Bhati v NCT, Delhi , (2001) 4 SCC
280, Supreme Court highlighted one of the factors for bail to be the public or the
State's immense interest and similar other considerations. In Dataram Singh v
State of Uttar Pradesh , (2018) 3 SCC 22, (Para 6), Supreme Court held that the
grant or refusal of bail is entirely within the discretion of the judge hearing the
matter and though that discretion is unfettered, it must be exercised judiciously,
compassionately, and in a humane manner. Also, conditions for the grant of bail
ought not to be so strict as to be incapable of compliance, thereby making the
grant of bail illusory. 9. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be
taken care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila
Aggarwal, (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held that unusually,
subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive conditions. 10. The petitioner is a first offender and thus deserves an opportunity to course
correct. 11. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances
peculiar to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a
case for bail, subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over
and above and irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter
XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. Provided the accused is not required in any other case, the petitioner shall
be released on bail in the FIR mentioned above, subject to furnishing a personal
bond of Rs. Ten thousand (INR 10,000/-), and shall furnish one surety of Rs.
Twenty-five thousand (INR 25,000/-), to the satisfaction of the trial Court/Judicial
Magistrate having the jurisdiction over the Police Station conducting the
investigation, and in case of non-availability, any IIlaqa Magistrate/duty
Magistrate. Before accepting the sureties, the concerned Court must satisfy that in
case the petitioners-accused fail to appear in Court, then such sureties are capable

 3 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 24-12-2021 00:22:15 ::: CRM-M-51985-2021 4 to produce the petitioners-accused before the Court, keeping in mind the
jurisprudence behind the sureties, which is to secure the presence of the accused. 13. On the reverse page of personal bonds, the attesting officer shall mention the
permanent address of the petitioner along with the phone number linked with the
AADHAR card, the other phone numbers (if any), and e-mail (if any). In case of
any change in the above particulars, the petitioner shall immediately and not later
than 30 days from such modification, intimate about the change to the concerned
Police Station and the concerned Court. 14. The petitioner to also execute a bond for attendance in the concerned
Court(s), as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the personal bond shall
be deemed acceptance of the following and all other stipulations, terms, and
conditions of this bail order. 15. Once the trial begins, the petitioner shall not, in any manner, try to delay the
proceedings and undertakes to appear before the concerned Court and to attend
the trial on each date, unless exempted. In case of an appeal, on this very bond,
the petitioner also promises to appear before the higher Court in terms of Section
437-A Cr.P.C. 16. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any
inducement, threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police
officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of
the case, to dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court,
or to tamper with the evidence. 17. Given the nature of allegations and the other circumstances peculiar to this
case, the petitioner shall surrender all weapons, firearms, ammunition, if any,
along with the arms license to the concerned authority within 30 days from today
and inform the Investigator about the compliance. However, subject to the Indian
Arms Act, 1959 , the petitioner shall be entitled to renew and take it back in case
of acquittal in this case. 18. Till the completion of the trial, the petitioner shall not contact, call, text,
message, remark, stare, stalk, make any gestures or express any unusual or
inappropriate, verbal or otherwise objectionable behavior towards the victim and
victim's family, either physically, or through phone call or any other social media,
through any other mode, nor shall unnecessarily roam around the victim's home. 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 24-12-2021 00:22:15 ::: CRM-M-51985-2021 5 19. The petitioner shall, within thirty days of release from prison, procure a
smartphone, and inform its IMEI number and other details to the SHO/I.O. of the
Police station mentioned before. The petitioner shall keep the phone location/GPS
always on the "ON" mode. Whenever the Investigating officer asks to share the
location, then the petitioner shall immediately do so. The petitioner shall neither
clear the location history, WhatsApp chats, calls nor format the phone without
permission of the concerned SHO/I.O. 20. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence
where the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition
as stipulated in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply
for cancellation of this bail. The petitioner shall bring it to the notice of the
concerned court seized of the subsequent application about earlier caution not to
indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall continue to remain
in force throughout the trial and after that in terms of Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C. 21. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the
petitioner puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this
bail order in any language that the petitioner understands. 22. In case the petitioner finds the bail condition(s) as violating fundamental,
human, or other rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for
modification of such term(s), the petitioner may file a reasoned application before
this Court, and after taking cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or
the trial Court, as the case may be, and such Court shall also be competent to
modify or delete any condition. 23. This order does not, in any manner, limit or restrict the rights of the Police
or the investigating agency from further investigation as per law. 24. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on
the merits of the case, nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 25. The Court believes that the accused shall reciprocate the bail through
desirable behavior. 26. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing
bonds, and any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with
case status from the official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy.
In case the attesting officer wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can
also verify its authenticity and may download and use the downloaded copy for
attesting bonds. 5 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 24-12-2021 00:22:15 ::: CRM-M-51985-2021 6 Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand
disposed.