Instagram is rolling out a series of new safety features to safeguard users from sextortion. The company has announced that users will no longer be able to screenshot or screen record transitory images or videos sent through private messages. Previously, users could take screenshots of transitory content in Instagram DMs (direct messages), and the sender would receive a notification. With this new change, when you send a photo or video using the “view once” or “allow replay” features, the recipient won’t be able to save it.

The developments come in sync with Instagram’s recently launched Teen Accounts , which provides built-in protections that limit who can contact teens, the content they view and how much time they spend online. Teens under 16 cannot change Teen Account settings without their parents’ permission.

Teen accounts will not be able to receive messages from anyone they don’t follow or aren’t connected to. However, they can still receive follow requests from anyone. Furthermore, suspicious accounts—especially newly created ones—will be averted from following teens. Depending on how suspicious an account appears, Instagram may either block the request completely or direct it to the teen’s spam folder. Instagram will restrict these accounts, preventing them from seeing who liked someone’s posts or viewing photos in which they are tagged.

The app is adding safety notices in direct messages to alert teens when they are chatting with someone who may be located in a different country. This measure aims to protect against sextortion scammers, who often lie about their location to gain teens’ trust.

Additionally, Instagram is globally rolling out its nudity protection feature , which automatically blurs images containing nudity in DMs, after initial testing in April. This feature will be automatically activated for teen users. Senders will also receive warnings about the risks associated with sending private photos.

These changes follow a period of 10 months since Instagram, along with other major social networks, f aced scrutiny from lawmakers for not doing enough to safeguard young users on its platform. The Kids Online Safety Bill (KOSA), ’24 is a federal bill that was specifically designed to protect kids online. Social platform CEOs defended their companies before the US Congress on concerns regarding children’s safety online. The bill seeks to create guidelines to safeguard minors from harmful content on social media by implementing a “duty of care” system and mandating that covered platforms disable “addicting” design features for minors.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event