By this order, the application filed by the plaintiff under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of 

CPC shall be disposed of. In the application, the plaintiff has sought an interim injunction 

to restrain the defendant from joining or serving any other employer or organisation or firm 

or company or from divulging any information detriment to the interests of the plaintiff till 

the defendant is employed with the plaintiff and his employment comes to an end legally in 

terms of his appointment letter and and the plaintiff company's policy, during the pendency 

of the present suit. A further relief sought is for another interim injunction to restrain the 

defendant from divulging any information, instrument, document, report etc which may 

have come to his knowledge regarding the affairs of business matters of the plaintiff 

company. 2.The brief facts are that the plaintiff company is engaged in the business of rendering 

service to its customers abroad which relates to consulting, IT enabled services, risk 

management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage and human capital and 

management consultant. It is averred in the plaint that the defendant Naveen Goyal took CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 1 of 9
 employment with the plaintiff vide appointment letter dated 26th December 2011 and was 

appointed as FS Finance Processor. It is stated that as per the appointment letter, the 

defendant had to give notice of 30 days after resignation to terminate the employment 

contract. The policy dated 10th December 2008 applicable under Clause 1 of the 

appointment letter dated 26th December 2011 also made the serving of the notice period 

mandatory. It is further stated that though either party could terminate the services after 

giving a prior notice of 30 days but the plaintiff had reserved the right not to accept 

payment of salary in lieu of the notice period at its sole discretion to enforce the notice 

period. It is further stated that as per Clause 5 of the appointment letter dated 26 th 

December 2011, the defendant was not supposed to engage any other activity which 

competed with the activities of the plaintiff company or conflicted with the defendant's 

position with the plaintiff company. Also, as per Clause 8 of the appointment letter, the 

defendant was was obliged not to divulge any third party any confidential information 

regarding the affairs of the business matters of the plaintiff. 3.It is further stated that the defendant has, in breach of the terms and conditions of the 

appointment letter, sent a resignation letter dated 8th February 2013 and sought to depart 

from the plaintiff without serving the mandatory notice period. The said resignation was 

rejected by the plaintiff and the rejection was informed to the defendant vide letter dated 

18th February 2013. It is further stated that the plaintiff came to know after the letter dated 

18th February 2013 was sent to the defendant that even before his resignation was 

accepted, the defendant was attempting to join another employment and the defendant is a 

critical resource in the plaintiff's team and it takes a minimum of 30 days to backfill the role 

of the defendant. However, the plaintiff was left with no time to find a replacement for the 

defendant. It is also stated that there is every likelihood of the defendant divulging the 

confidential information about the process of the plaintiff to other persons. On the basis of 

these facts, the present suit has been filed to restrain the defendant from joining any other CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 2 of 9
 organisation/company till the defendant's employment comes to an end legally in terms of 

the appointment letter dated 26th December 2011 and the applicable company policy. A 

further relief sought is for restraining the defendant from divulging any information and 

knowledge relating to the plaintiff. Another direction sought is for the defendant to hand 

over the charge to his successor and return documents and confidential information in his 

possession regarding the working of the plaintiff. 4.In reply to the present application, the defendant has stated the plaintiff has suppressed 

material facts and the defendant has not breached any condition of the appointment 

letter/service agreement. Even otherwise if it is assumed that there is a breach of 

agraement, it is stated that the remedy available for the plaintiff is not of injunction. It is 

further stated in reply that no person can be forced to work as a bonded labour/worker and 

directed not to join some other company and such condition imposed by the plaintiff in the 

appointment letter is an unfair trade practice and against the Constitution of India. It is 

further stated in the written statement that the marriage of the defendant was scheduled to 

be solemnised on 23rd January 2013 and it was within the knowledge of the seniors of the 

defendant and the defendant had already informed his seniors that after marriage he 

would not be in a position to continue his services with the plaintiff company. Therefore, 

the defendant remained on leave from 16th January 2013 to 6th February 2013 and 

thereafter as advised, he resigned from the services on 8 th February 2013 after consulting 

with seniors and the defendant was assured by the plaintiff that his resignation will be 

accepted. However, now the plaintiff has filed the present suit of injunction only to harass 

the defendant. 5.This court has heard Shri Sohail Sehgal, learned Advocate for the plaintiff and Sh. 

Yatendra Nagar, learned Advocate for the defendant and perused the record. 6.For claiming the relief of interim injunction, the plaintiff has to satisfy the following three 

ingredients: CS No. 13/13 7.In the present case, for ascertaining whether the plaintiff has a prima facie case in its 

favour, it has to be seen whether the plaintiff has the right to enforce clauses 4,5 and 8 of 

the appointment letter dated 26th December 2011 relating to the mandatory requirement of 

service of notice of 30 days by the employee who is seeking to resign from the plaintiff 

company and relating to maintaining confidentiality of information. In the prima facie view 

of this court, in terms of section 14 (b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 these terms of the 

appointment letter are not specifically enforceable by the plaintiff. 

Contract of employment not specifically enforceable: injunction cannot be granted 8.In Nandganj Sihori Sugar Co. Ltd. v. Badri Nath Dixit , (1991) 3 SCC 54 the Supreme 

Court has observed as under: (paras 5,8 and 10, SCC)

 "5. ......Courts do not ordinarily enforce performance of contracts of a 
 personal character, such as a contract of employment. In the words of 
 Jessel, M.R.: [Rigby v. Connol, (1880) 14 Ch D 482, 487 : 28 WR 650; 
 see Cheshire, Fifoot and Furmston's Law of Contract, 11th edn., p. 614] 
 "The courts have never dreamt of enforcing agreements 
 strictly personal in their nature, whether they are 
 agreements of hiring and service, being the common 
 relation of master and servant ...." 8. In Halsbury's Laws of England (4th edn., Volume 44, at para 407) it is 
 stated: 10. A contract of employment cannot ordinarily be enforced by or 
 against an employer. The remedy is to sue for damages. (See Section 
 14 read with Section 41 of the Specific Relief Act; see Indian Contract 
 and Specific Relief Acts by Pollock and Mulla, 10th edn., page 983). The 
 grant of specific performance is purely discretionary and must be 
 refused when not warranted by the ends of justice. Such relief can be 
 granted only on sound legal principles. ..." (emphasis added) 9.Therefore, in terms of Section 41(1)(e) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 injunction cannot 

be granted for preventing breach of a contract that is not specifically enforceable. Section 42 of Specific Relief Act is not applicable 10.Ld. Advocate for the plaintiff, while relying upon Power Finance Corporation Ltd v. 

Pramod Kumar Bhatia (1997) 4 SCC 280 contended that the jural relationship between 

the plaintiff and the defendant still exists and the plaintiff is seeking the relief of injunction 

in terms of Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act which provides for enforcement of negative 

convenants. In support of this contention, he relied upon the decision in BLB Institute of CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 5 of 9 Financial Markets Ltd v. Ramakar Jha 154 (2008) DLT 121. In the considered view of 

this court, Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act cannot be interpreted to mean that an 

agreement which is non­enforceable becomes enforceable. The enforcement (in terms of 

injunction) provided for in Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act has to be distinct from the 

agreement which is found to be not enforceable. It cannot be interpreted as making 

agreement which is non­enforceable as enforceable. If Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act 

were to be read in such manner, it would amount to making of contracts specifically 

enforceable notwithstanding provisions of Specific Relief Act . To the same effect is the 

ratio of the decision of the High Court of Delhi in Yogesh Radhakrishnan v. Media 

Networks and Distribution (India) Ltd 2013 IV AD (Delhi) 92 (107). The High Court of 

Delhi has futher observed in Yogesh Radhakrishnan that Section 42 of Specific Relief Act 

provides for a situation where even though the agreement may be found to be specifically 

not enforceable but the defendant has separately agreed not to do a certain act and 

permits grant of an injunction restraining the defendant from doing that act. Therefore, the 

decision in BLB Institute of Financial Markets cannot be made applicable in view of the 

law laid down by Nandganj Sihori Sugar Co and Yogesh Radhakrishnan. Therefore, the 

contention of Ld. Advocate for the plaintiff to interpret Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act 

in such terms cannot be accepted. 11.Therefore, this court is of prima facie view that the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief of 

injunction as prayed for as the clauses 4,5 and 8 relating to 30 days' notice period before 

resignation are not specifically enforceable. As far as the clause relating to maintaining 

confidentiality of information, the plaintiff has not specifically averred the details of 

confidential information that are specifically within the knowledge of the defendant. A 

vague averment that the plaintiff has custody of confidential information would not prima 

facie entitle the plaintiff to any relief in its favour. 12.The case­laws relied upon on behalf of the plaintiff are distinguishable on material facts. CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 6 of 9
 In the present case, the plaintiff has not even averred a word about the nature of 

confidential information that the plaintiff apprehends that the defendant is holding and 

which can cause damage to the plaintiffs. Also, the employment of the defendant as FS 

Finance Processor prima facie does not appear to be critical to the working of the plaintiff 

company. In the cases relied upon by the plaintiff, the employee was either working in 

some other organisation after committing breach of the notice period or was holding 

substantial confidential data and the nature of confidential data was also disclosed by the 

employer in its averment in those cases. In the present case, the plaintiff has neither 

shown any document nor has made any averment showing that the defendant is working in 

some other organisation without serving the notice period. Also, as already stated, the 

details of the confidential information have not been given. On the other hand, the 

defendant has stated in his written statement that he does not intend to work at all before 

any company after his marriage. 13.There is one more fact that disentitles the plaintiff from the discretionary and equitable 

relief of injunction. The plaintiff itself has stated that the defendant resigned from its 

service on 8th February 2013. But the plaintiff took 10 days to take decision on waiving off 

the 30 days' notice period and wrote letter dated 18 th February 2013 directing the defendant 

to serve the 30 days' period and now it expects the defendant to join back and complete 

the notice period. The conduct of the plaintiff does prima facie disentitle it to relief of 

injunction under Section 41(i) of Specific Relief Act, 1963. 14.The only remedy, if at all, appears to be available to the plaintiff is seeking damages for 

not complying with the requirement of serving mandatory notice period and not for an 

injunction to compel the defendant to join the plaintiff for 30 days when he himself does not 

wish to do the same and has already resigned from the plaintiff company. Such a relief as 

prayed for by the plaintiff would also be prima facie hit by Section 27 of the Indian Contract 

Act, 1872. (See Ambiance India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Sh. Naveen Jain 122 (2005) DLT 421, CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 7 of 9
 2005 (81) DRJ 538.) 15.Therefore, for all these reasons, this court finds that the plaintiff has failed to show any 

prima facie case in its favour. 16.Since the plaintiff has failed to make out a prima facie case, there is no need to go into 

the question of balance of convenience and irreparable loss and injury. In Kashi Math 

Samsthan v. Srimad Sudhindra Thirtha Swamy AIR 2010 SC 296, it was observed as 

under (AIR @ p. 299): (emphasis added) 17.Even otherwise, the balance of convenience is not in favour of the plaintiff as the 

defendant has already left the employment of the plaintiff in the month of February 2013. 

Also, the plaintiff will not suffer irreparable loss if the interim injunction, as prayed for, is not 

granted. 18.Therefore, the plaintiff has failed to satisfy the ingredients necessary for grant of interim 

relief in its favour. The opinion expressed in this order shall not be construed as an CS No. 13/13 Hewitt Associates India Pvt Ltd v. Naveen Goyal Page number 8 of 9
 expression of opinion on the merits of the matter by this Court. The application is 

dismissed. The Order be uploaded to www.delhidistrictcourts.nic.in.