SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scam Call?
DATE: 2018-12-27
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/a9x8og/scam_call/

--- POST TEXT ---

Long Backstory:

I received a call few months ago (Lady#1) who spoke to my in my home branch region's language said they were from HDFC Bank and asked if I wanted a loan. Coincidentally I did need to know how much amount I could get for a home loan as I am considering buying a house. She asks me my take home per month which I say and she gives me a number of how much loan will be approved to me with tentative interest rates. I tell her to call me in few months when my hike kicks in hoping to get a bigger/better loan and she agrees. I gave no other personal information and she seemed to give me credible loan details which I needed so I did not have any reason to doubt her

Few weeks later after that I get a call from another lady (Lady#2) who also spoke to me in my home branch region's language saying she is my personal banker and whether I have any doubts to clarify about my account. This raises a red flag for me, I say no to her as I can get pretty much every thing done from the HDFC mobile app/netbanking. She persists in having me check my account balance (or something similar like account update, can't remember) with her which just confirms she was a scamster for me. I ask her from which branch she was out of curiosity to know how much of my financial information she has. She pauses for a while and tells me she is from the branch area to
 which my registered address is however my home branch is in another area. So I just tell her that I have nothing to do with the branch area she said and that I will just contact my home branch for anything I need and cut the call. I am bothered by this call as I realize this scamster has my following financial information:
1. My phone number and the Bank it has registered account in. 
2. My updated registered address/area from which she took a short in the dark hoping that it would be the home branch 

But I take solace in the fact that my financial info is still secure enough to avoid any actual loss of my account 

Now just last week I am traveling to attend my cousins wedding and like an idiot I lose my HDFC debit card at the Airport ATM. I block my card and call HDFC customer service to issue another one. Since I am traveling I asked by when I'll receive the new card and I'm told that I will receive it by 28th December at my updated registered address. 

I didn't exactly make plans of my return trip as I was unsure how many post wedding functions/ceremonies I would be attending so I think of following up for my new card when I get free. However yesterday I get a couple of missed calls and then an SMS from AX-HDFCBK that my personal banker is trying to contact me and reachable at given number. I call back hoping that it's an update in my new card but I get a busy message. I eventually get a call back from the same number. As I speak to her she reminds me that she is Lady#1 who discussed the home loan with. I figure I just quickly get over the home loan details and ask her an update on my new card after that. 

She winds up asking me if I have any outstanding loans from any other banks I say no. Then she asks if I have any accounts in other banks I say yes but it starts to raise red flags the way she asks for it. She further asks about any insurance I have I give as minimal details as possible. Then she ends up asking my mother's maiden name out of the blue which just screams scam call for me. I tell her it should be in my account she says yeah lets check changes the topic a bit and then says she can't find it. I tell her that I'll check my account details and update it in case it's not there. She changes the topic for a minute and then says she is still waiting for my mother's name as if expecting me to slip and say it. I tell her again that I'll update the account and she should have it then. She says "OK OK" and I cut the call. After the call ends I get another SMS from AX-HDFCBK stating thanks for speaking with the personal banker. I check previous messages to see if it's a legit HDFC SMS account and I am able to see all the previous transaction confirmation SMS indicating its a legit account. 

This baffles me cause it leads me to think either the scamsters have found a way to send SMS from a legit HDFC Bank or the scamsters actually work in HDFC Bank. It is also plausible that the phone was from legit HDFC banker who is very unprofessional as the whole conversation felt like a phishing attempt. 

Tl;dr 

Got SMS in legit AX-HDFCBK message chain saying personal banker trying to call. Contacting the personal banker from the SMS felt like a phishing attempt. Wondering if scamster masquerading as HDFC employee or actual HDFC employee scamming or a legit HDFC employee just behaving unprofessionally