K.G. BALAKRISHNAN, C.J.I. 1. Reservation for admission in educational institutions or for public 


employment has been a matter of challenge in various litigations in 

this Court as well as in the High Courts. Diverse opinions have been 

expressed in regard to the need for reservation. Though several 

grounds have been raised to oppose any form of reservation, few in 

independent India have voiced disagreement with the proposition that 

the disadvantaged sections of the population deserve and need 

"special help". But there has been considerable disagreement as to 

which category of disadvantaged sections deserve such help, about 

the form this help ought to take and about the efficacy and propriety 

of what the government has done in this regard. 2. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, who presided over the Congress Expert 

Committee emphasized before the Constituent Assembly that the 

removal of socio-economic inequalities was the highest priority. He 

believed that only this could make India a casteless and classless 

society, without which the Constitution will become useless and 

purposeless1. The Founding Fathers of the Constitution were thus 

aware of the ripples of inequality present in society, decried the 

notion of caste and ensured that the Constitutional framework 

contained adequate safeguards that would ensure the upliftment of 

1 II Constituent Assembly Debates 317 (Wednesday, January 22, 1947)


the socially and educationally backward classes of citizens, thus 

creating a society of equals. The interpretation of the term "socially 

and educationally backward", and its constituent classes, was left for 

future generations to decide. 3. Regarding equality, Dr. Ambedkar stated in the Constituent 

Assembly2 : 4. Judge Lauterpacht of the International Court of Justice, writing in 

1945, described the importance of the principle of equality in the 

following words:- 5. Equality has also been enshrined in various international 

2 XI Constituent Assembly Debates 979 (Friday, November 25, 1949)

3 Lauterpacht, An International Bill of the Rights of the Man (New York, Columbia University Press, 

 1945)


instruments, such as the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human 

Rights. Its Preamble speaks of "the equal and inalienable rights of all 

members of the human family", and of "the equal rights of men and 

women."4 6. Reservation is one of the many tools that are used to preserve 

and promote the essence of equality, so that disadvantaged groups 

can be brought to the forefront of civil life. It is also the duty of the 

State to promote positive measures to remove barriers of inequality 

and enable diverse communities to enjoy the freedoms and share 

the benefits guaranteed by the Constitution. In the context of 

education, any measure that promotes the sharing of knowledge, 

information and ideas, and encourages and improves learning, 

among India's vastly diverse classes deserves encouragement. To 

cope with the modern world and its complexities and turbulent 

problems, education is a must and it cannot remain cloistered for the 

benefit of a privileged few. Reservations provide that extra 

advantage to those persons who, without such support, can forever 

only dream of university, education, without ever being able to 

realize it. This advantage is necessary. In the words of President 

4 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, pmbl., G.A. Res. 217A, U.N. GAOR, 3rd Sess., pt. 1, at 71, 

 U.N. Doc A/810 (1948)


Lyndon Johnson, 

"You do not take a person who, for years, has been hobbled by 

chains and liberate him, bring him up to the starting line and then say, 

`You are free to compete with all the others..."5 7. Dr. Rajendra Prasad, at the concluding address of the Constituent 

Assembly, stated in the following words:- 8. It must also be borne in mind that many other democracies face 

similar problems and grapple with issues of discrimination, in their 

own societal context. Though their social structure may be markedly 

different from ours, the problem of inequality in the larger context and 

the tools used to combat it may be common. As stated by Justice 

Ruth Bader Ginsburg at the 51st Cardozo Memorial Lecture, in 1999 : 9. We are conscious of the fact that any reservation or preference 

shall not lead to reverse discrimination. The Constitution (Ninety- Third) Amendment Act, 2005 and the enactment of Act 5 of 2007 

giving reservation to Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Scheduled 

Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) created mixed reactions in 

the society. Though the reservation in favour of SC and ST is not 

opposed by the petitioners, the reservation of 27% in favour of Other 

Backward Classes/Socially and educationally backward classes is 

strongly opposed by various petitioners in these cases. Eminent 

Counsel appeared both for the petitioners and respondents. The 

learned Solicitor General and Additional Solicitor General appeared 

and expressed their views. We have tried to address, with utmost 

care and attention, the various arguments advanced by the learned 

counsel and we are greatly beholden to all of them for the manner in 

which they have analysed and presented the case before us which is 

of great importance, affecting large sections of the community. 10. By The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , clause 

(5) was inserted in Article 15 of the Constitution which reads as 

under :- 11. In Unni Krishnan, J.P. & Ors. Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh & 

Ors.7 , it was held that right to establish educational institutions can 

neither be a trade or business nor can it be a profession within the 

meaning of Article 19(1)(g). This was overruled in T.M.A. Pai 

Foundation & Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka & Ors.8 , wherein it was 

held that all citizens have the fundamental right to establish and 

administer educational institutions under Article 19(1)(g) and the 

term "occupation" in Article 19(1)(g) comprehends the establishment 

and running of educational institutions and State regulation of 

admissions in such institutions would not be regarded as an 

7 1993 (1) SCC 645

8 2002 (8) SCC 481


unreasonable restriction on that fundamental right to carry on 

business under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. Education is 

primarily the responsibility of the State Governments. The Union 

Government also has certain responsibility specified in the 

Constitution on matters relating to institutions of national importance 

and certain other specified institutions of higher education and 

promotion of educational opportunities for the weaker sections of 

society. The Parliament introduced Article 15(5) by The Constitution 

(Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 to enable the State to make 

such provision for the advancement of SC, ST and Socially and 

Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) of citizens in relation to a 

specific subject, namely, admission to educational institutions 

including private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by 

the State notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19(1)(g). In the 

Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act, 2005 it has been stated that :- 12. After the above Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , 

the Parliament passed The Central Educational Institutions 

(Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006 (No. 5 of 2007) (hereinafter 

referred to as "the Act 5 of 2007"). 13. Section 3 of Act 5 of 2007 provides for reservation of 15% seats 

for Scheduled Castes, 7=% seats for Scheduled Tribes and 27% for 

Other Backward Classes in Central Educational Institutions. The said 

section is extracted below : - 14. "Central Educational Institution" has been defined under Section 2(d) of the Act as follows: 15. The percentage of reservation to various groups such as 

Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes 

are with reference to the annual permitted strength of the Central 

Educational Institutions and the "annual permitted strength" is defined 

under Section2(b) of the Act as follows:- 16. Section 4 of the Act specifically says that the provisions of 

Section 3 shall apply to certain institutions. Section 4 reads as 

under:- Provided that the Central Government may, as and when considered 

necessary, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the 

Schedule; (c) a Minority Educational Institution as defined in this Act; (d) a course or programme at high levels of specialization, 

including at the post-doctoral level, within any branch or study or 

faculty, which the Central Government may, in consultation with the 

appropriate authority, specify." 17. "Minority Educational Institution" is defined in Section 2(f) of the 

Act as follows:- 18. Section 2(g) defines "Other Backward Classes" as under:- 19. Clause 2(h) defines "Scheduled Castes" and clause 2(i) defines 

"Scheduled Tribes" as under: 20. Section 5 of the Act mandates the increase of seats in the 

Central Educational Institutions by providing reservation to Scheduled 

Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Section 5 

reads as follows:- 21. By virtue of definition of the "Central Educational Institutions" 22. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Act gives the 

object of the Act thus :- 23. The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , by 

which Article 15(5) was inserted in the Constitution, is challenged in 

these petitions, on various grounds. In some of the writ petitions 

which have been filed after the passing of Act 5 of 2007, the 

challenge is directed against the various provisions of the Act 5 of 

2007. Initially, these writ petitions were heard by a Bench of two 

Judges. Considering the constitutional importance of these questions, 

all these writ petitions were referred to a Constitution Bench. 24. We have heard learned Counsel appearing for the various 

petitioners. The learned Senior Counsel, Shri Harish Salve, Shri 

F.S. Nariman, Shri K.K. Venugopal, Shri P.P. Rao and 

Dr. Rajeev Dhavan and learned Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain 

addressed the main arguments on behalf of the petitioners. Shri 

Ashok Kumar Thakur appeared in person. Supporting the 

Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 and the provisions 

of the said Act, learned Senior Counsel Shri K. Parasaran, appearing 

for the Union of India, learned Solicitor General Shri G.E. Vahanvati 

and learned Additional Solicitor General Shri Gopal Subramanium 

submitted arguments. We have also heard learned Senior Counsel 

Shri Ram Jethmalani, Shri T.R. Andhyarujina, Ms. Indra Jaisingh, 

Shri Rakesh Dwivedi and Shri Ravivarma Kumar. We also had 

the advantage of the written submissions made by these Counsel. 25. The arguments advanced against the Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act, 2005 and Act 5 of 2007 can be summarized as 

follows. 26. It was contended by Shri Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel, 


who confined his arguments to the constitutionality of the provisions 

of the Act, especially sub-clause (3) of Section 3 of the Act which 

deals with the reservation to the extent of 27% of the total number of 

seats for the "socially and educationally backward classes of 

citizens". According to him, the admission to educational 

institutions should be based purely on merit and to allow the State to 

prefer a student with lesser merit over those who would have 

otherwise got admission, is ex facie discriminatory. It is submitted 

that all obviously discriminatory laws are violative of the rule of 

equality and it is for the State to maintain the principles of equality 

and to establish the need for such laws as well as their validity. It was 

further argued that Article 15(5) does not protect the validity of the 

Act and that the provision in the Act for preferential admission solely 

on the basis of caste would violate Article 29(2) of the Constitution, 

as has been laid down in The State of Madras Vs. Srimathi 

Champakam Dorairajan9 . It was also argued that Article 15(5) could 

be construed as an exception to Article 15(1) and affirmative action, if 

excessive, is bound to result in reverse discrimination which is not 

permissible. According to the learned Senior Counsel, this is not a 

genuine social engineering measure but vote bank politics and would 

9 1951 SCR 525


create permanent fissures in society. It was argued that the 

provisions of the Act are facially violative of Article 14 and it could 

only be justified on the basis of compelling State necessity. A greater 

degree of compulsion is necessary to establish a compelling State 

necessity than what is ordinarily required to be shown in the case of 

economic legislation. The learned Senior Counsel dealt in detail with 

the argument that the backward classes cannot be defined solely on 

the basis of caste and reference was made to various decisions of 

this Court. The learned Senior Counsel particularly referred to 

various decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States and 

contended that this kind of legislation, that is, the impugned Act, 

attempting affirmative action is to be treated as "suspect legislation" 10 1992 Supp. (3) SCC 215


destructive of basic structure of the Constitution. The learned 

Counsel was of the view that both the Act as well as the Constitution 

(Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 have to be declared ultra vires 

the Constitution. 28. Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the 

petitioners in Writ Petition No. 53/2007 contended that the affirmative 

action scheme under Article 15(4) , 15(5) and 16(4) has to comply 

with the mandate of Article 14 , 15(1) and 16(1) of the Constitution. It 

was argued that these are only enabling provisions and not part of 

the fundamental rights. "Notwithstanding", as used in Article 15(3) , 

15(4) and 15(5) cannot be construed as "notwithstanding the 

declaration of equality principle". In view of the decision of this Court 

in Champakam Dorairajan (supra) admission quotas are 

impermissible on any ground based solely on religion, race, caste or 

any one of them. It was argued that there is a lack of criteria for 

identification of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Socially and 

Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs). The concept of creamy 

layer is applicable to Article 15 and Article 16 and non-exclusion of 

creamy layer in the Act is illegal. Further it was argued that quota 


should not be a punishment for unreserved categories and there 

should not be any reverse discrimination. The learned Senior 

Counsel further challenged the constitutional validity of Constitution 

(Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 and contended that it is against 

the basic structure of the Constitution. The procedure laid down 

under Article 368 has not been followed. It was contended that the 

proviso to Article 368 of the Constitution requires ratification of the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 by one half of the 

States. The amendment seeks to nationalize the private educational 

institutions which is unreasonable and impermissible and reference 

was made in this regard to T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). It was 

argued that Act 5 of 2007 is unreasonable, arbitrary, capricious and 

contrary to Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. He elaborated his 

arguments on the basis of the tests laid down in the M. Nagaraj & 

Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.11 and I.R. Coelho (Dead) by LRS. Vs. State of T.N.12 cases and lastly, submitted that both Act 5 of 

2007 and The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 are 

liable to be declared as ultra vires the Constitution. 11 (2006) 8 SCC 212

12 (2007) 2 SCC 1 29. Dr. Rajeev Dhavan elaborately argued that perusal of the 

history of the reservations from 1880 to 2007 for OBCs and SEBCs 

showed that there was no emphasis on communities by the British 

regime and community based criteria was held to be illegal in Champakam Dorairajan (supra). From 1950 to 1970, there was no 

proper inquiry for ascertaining the OBCs or SEBCs. The learned 

Counsel emphasized that in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra), caste 

was excluded as a criteria and the identification of SEBCs or OBCs 

based on caste could not operate for both Articles 15(4) and 16(4). According to the learned Senior Counsel, the criteria for identifying 

SEBCs should be based on the atrocities inflicted on that class, 

discriminatory patterns followed against that class, disadvantage 

suffered by that class and disempowerment in respect of the power of 

the State and political non-representation. The class should also be 

relatively homogeneous in nature. 30. According to the learned Senior Counsel, there is a lack of criteria 

for fixing SEBCs or OBCs and this case is being taken to excite vote- banks. It was argued that the 27% of reservation under the Act of 

2007 was based on criteria which did not exist. It was contended that 


the creamy layer principle is applicable to OBCs and also to SCs and 

STs. It was argued that historic discrimination is not a valid criteria 

for determining the beneficiaries of affirmative action and the correct 

approach is to look at the continuing wrong and not past 

discrimination and that the quotas should not be a punishment for the 

non-reserved category resulting in reverse discrimination. The 

learned Senior Counsel contended that the Ninety-Third Amendment 

is against the basic structure of the Constitution. It was argued that 

the Doctrine of Equality is adversely affected by giving a wide and 

untrammeled enabling power to the Union Legislature that may affect 

the rights of the non-OBCs, SCs and STs. It was argued that the 

balance between what was referred to as the "Golden Triangle" in Minerva Mills Ltd. & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.13 has been 

totally nullified by the Ninety-Third Amendment. It was argued that 

the legislative declarations of facts are not beyond judicial scrutiny 

and the court can tear the veil to decide the real nature of the statute 

and decide the constitutional validity. It was argued that the Act 5 of 

2007 is subject to judicial review on the ground that its unreasonable 

and clear criteria have not been laid down to identify OBCs and there 

was no compelling necessity other than political patronage. 13 AIR 1980 SC 1789 = (1980) 3 SCC 625 31. Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel appearing in W.P. 

(Civil) No. 598 of 2006 contended that Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are 

mutually exclusive with the former concerning admissions to aided 

institutions and the latter concerning admissions to unaided 

institutions. Article 15(5) expressly used the phrase "whether aided 

or unaided", making it clear that it is not merely restricting itself to 

unaided institutions. Therefore, it is argued that from the very 

inception of the Constitution, Article 15(4) was a provision and was 

the source of legislative power for the purpose of making reservation 

for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes as well as the Socially 

and Educationally Backward Classes of citizens in aided minority 

educational institutions. On the other hand, Article 15(5) , which 

provides reservation of seats for SCs and STs as well as SEBCs in 

aided educational institutions expressly excludes such reservation 

being made at all in minority educational institutions covered by Article 30(1) of the Constitution. According to him, it would take away 

the valuable rights of OBCs, SCs and STs given by the State under Article 15(4) of the Constitution and this would result in annulling the 

endeavour of the founding fathers of the Constitution and would 


result in exclusion of SCs and STs from the mainstream of the 

society and stall their development for centuries to come. According 

to the learned Counsel for the petitioners, the argument of the Union 

of India that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are both enabling provisions and 

both will stand together and both can be complied with is incorrect. It 

was argued that Article 15(4) operates with a qualification that 

nothing in Article 15 or in Article 29(2) of the Constitution shall 

prevent the State from making special provision for SCs and STs as 

well as SEBCs while Article 15(5) operates with a qualification that 

"nothing in Article 15 or Article 19(1)(g)" shall prevent the State from 

making such special provisions for SCs and STs as well as SEBCs. The qualifying words in Article 15(4) do not have any real meaning or 

effect for the reason that both Article 15(1) as well as Article 29(2) prohibit discrimination on grounds only of religion and/or for caste. Therefore, it is argued that there is a direct conflict between Article 

15(4) and 15(5). As both Articles contain an exclusionary clause 

excluding the operation of the rest of Article 15. It was contended 

that The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 is violative 

of the basic structure as it breaches the central character of the 

Constitution by placing the minority educational institutions based on 


religion on a special footing and exempting it from bearing the 

common burden of reservation for SCs, STs and SEBCs. It was 

argued that such exclusion of minority institution is not severable 

from Article 15(5). As regards the validity of the Act 5 of 2007, it 

failed to exclude the "creamy layer" from the caste which would 

render the identification of the "caste" as "backward class" which is 

unconstitutional and void. Their inclusion would not result in 

unequals being treated as equals and result in giving the benefit of 

reservation to the advanced sections in that caste. The 

consequences would be that the inclusion of the caste for the benefit 

of reservations would be purely on the basis of caste only thus 

violating Article 15(1) and Article 29(2) of the Constitution. The 

doctrine of severability does not apply and therefore, the Act 5 of 

2007 is unconstitutional and void to the extent that it does not provide 

exclusion of `creamy layer' from the SEBCs. Therefore, it was prayed 

that both The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Amendment 

Act, 2005 as well as the Act 5 of 2007 be struck down as 

unconstitutional. 32. Shri F.S. Nariman, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the 


petitioners in W.P. (Civil) No. 35 of 2007, contended that the caste 

cannot be the sole criteria for determining the socially and 

educationally backward classes under Article 15(4) and 15(5) of the 

Constitution and the test for Article 15(5) has to be "occupation cum 

income" where caste may or may not be one of the many 

considerations having a nebulous weightage, and alternatively 

without conceding if caste at all is taken as one of the many 

considerations then it can only be those castes which satisfy the test 

of similarity with Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. It was argued 

that the decision of this Court in R. Chitralekha & Anr. Vs. State 

of Mysore & Ors.14 still occupies the field for the purpose of Article 

15 and the decision in R. Chitralekha 's case (supra) was affirmed 

by the Bench in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra). It was argued that 

OBCs are already educationally forward and no reservation in higher 

education is justified. The learned Senior Counsel relied on the 

literacy rate by age groups as quoted in the Sachar Committee 

Report. It was contended that in data given in the judgment in Indra 

Sawhney 's case (supra), OBCs were not taken as educationally 

backward. According to the learned Senior Counsel for the 

petitioners, there can only be presumption of forwardness of OBCs 

14 (1964) 6 SCR 368


and they are not backward. The burden is on the Government to 

provide that the intended beneficiaries are really backward citizens. The OBCs have not suffered social inequalities or oppression that 

had been inflicted on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by the 

society and, according to the learned Senior Counsel, the caste- occupation nexus barely survives today and is a misleading guide. The caste based occupation association has been rapidly 

disappearing from the Indian society. For Articles 15(4) and 15(5) , 

economic consideration has to be the dominant criterion. The non- execution of "creamy layer" is illegal and it was intended to safeguard 

the really deprived and backward people among the so-called OBCs. It was contended that the Government has not published the list of 

OBCs for Article 15(5) and the Union of India has not been able to 

produce the list or the criteria for determining the SEBCs. No time 

frame has been fixed for such reservation. Therefore, the Act 5 of 

2007 is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and is thus 

unconstitutional. 33. Appearing for the Writ Petitioner in W.P. (Civil) No. 231/2007 

filed by the Citizens for Equality, the learned Senior Counsel Shri 


P.P. Rao contended that the mandate of Article 45 to provide free 

and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age 

of 14 years has not been complied with by the Government and 

therefore, there is clear violation of Article 20 of the Constitution. Although the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Project was introduced 

with certain objectives, these objectives were not fulfilled. The 

Constitution seeks to achieve a casteless and classless society. Therefore, identification of socially and educationally backward 

classes should be based on such criteria which facilitate the 

eradication of the caste system. The educational backwardness of 

the backward classes and the SEBCs should be removed and once 

this educational backwardness is removed, clause 4 and 5 of Article 

15 will become redundant and unnecessary. It was argued that 

without ensuring that every child belonging to a backward class is 

provided free and compulsory education upto 10+2 level any 

reservation provided in higher education is discriminatory inter se 

between members of the backward classes themselves and violative 

of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. Education upto secondary 

school level should be the measure for determining educational 

backwardness. The social and educational backwardness referred to 


in Article 15(4) requires separate identification of SEBCs. Agricultural 

labourers, rickshaw pullers/drivers, street hawkers etc. may well 

qualify for being designated as "backward classes" According to 

petitioner's learned Senior Counsel, a rational basis would be to 

identify backward classes through occupations traditionally 

considered to be inferior, yielding low income. It was argued that that 

in any event, the "creamy layer" among the socially and educationally 

backward classes is liable to be excluded. 34. Shri Sushil Kumar Jain, learned Counsel appearing in 

W.P. (Civil) No. 598 of 2006, elaborately argued the issues involved 

in this case. The main contention of the petitioner's Counsel is that 

the "affirmative action" policy of the Government of India is 

discriminatory and against general public interest. The policy is 

intended to "uplift" the so called socially and educationally backward 

sections of the society by the process of positive discrimination. It 

was argued that the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment is 

destructive of the basic structure of the Constitution as it destroys the 

delicate balance of the various fundamental rights that the citizens of 

the country enjoy. The provision of Article 15(5) was inserted as a 


proviso to Article 19(6) which has been held to be unreasonable and 

against the constitutional scheme. Article 15(5) makes an exception 

for the minority institutions covered under Article 30 and therefore 

treats them differently from other private institutions. The Central 

Education Institution (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2007 which has 

been enacted in purported exercise of the said powers, is in excess 

of the said powers. Since the target beneficiaries of Article 15(5) have not been identified with a necessary degree of specificity, the 

Act 5 of 2007 is illegal. There ought to be a quantitative correlation 

between the benefits conferred and the extent of the "problem" sought to be remedied, the correlation being "reasonable" and not 

"proportionate". The Act 5 of 2007 does not provide the manner or 

the principles on which the identification of OBC is to be made. Therefore, it lacks the necessary nexus with the ultimate objects 

sought to be achieved. The reservation of seats for the "beneficiaries" for many years to come without any provision for review gives rigidity 

and permanency to such measures. This would result in excessive 

reservation and thereby cause reverse discrimination. The 100% 

quota in the additional seats that will be created in the educational 

institutions is facially discriminatory. Identification of SEBCs on the 


basis of caste creates vested interest in backwardness. Therefore, 

the measures and means chosen by the Government are therefore 

unethical to the constitutional goals. Failure to exclude "creamy 

layer" allows conferment of benefits on undeserving persons. The 

action of the State Governments lacks in the basic details of the 

extent of the measure. The exact social malaise sought to be 

remedied is not clear. 35. The learned Counsel for the petitioner further contended that 

the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment violates the basic 

structure of the Constitution. This Court clarified the rights of the 

private educational institutions in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the 

Constitution in T.M.A. Pai Foundation case (supra) as explained in P.A. Inamdar & Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra & Ors.15 It was 

held in that case that fixation of quotas and reservation of seats in 

private educational institutions amounts to "Nationalization of 

Education". The Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment is thus an 

unreasonable action of the legislature. It was argued that the 

impugned amendment alters supremacy of the Constitution and there 

was only limited constituent power to amend Article 368. Article 

15 (2005) 6 SCC 537


15(5) would enable the State to make the law to provide reservation 

to private educational institution which has been held to be an 

unreasonable encroachment on the fundamental rights and this 

amendment would alter the balance between Part III and IV of the 

Constitution. Reliance was placed on various decisions by the 

petitioner's learned Counsel. The impugned amendment specifically 

excludes the application of Article 19(1)(g) , whereas the institutions 

governed by Article 26 and the minority institutions governed by Article 30(1) have been left out. This, according to the petitioner's 

Counsel, is discriminatory and illegal and that there was no 

justification to this differential treatment. The petitioner's learned 

Counsel also challenged the quantum of reservations provided under 

the Act 5 of 2007. Any determination of the extent of reservation 

without considering the future impact of the reservation would be 

unjust, arbitrary and unreasonable. Caste based reservation would 

not be in the larger interest of the national unity and integrity. The 

benefits could be given only to those communities which are not 

adequately represented and not to those which are socially and 

educationally advanced. Reservation in the form of quota is illegal 

and if some classes are to be given some benefit and to be equalized 


with the general category they could be awarded some additional 

marks like it is being given to the women candidates seeking 

admission in colleges. Many of the castes included in SEBCs are not 

really backward classes and some of them were even rulers of 

erstwhile States for a number of years. The benefits and privileges 

which are given to SCs/STs should not be extended to OBCs. The 

members of the OBC communities are capable of competing with the 

general category candidates and the increase in seats would entail a 

corresponding increase in infrastructure, and it is submitted that an 

increase in infrastructure would, therefore, to be financed through tax 

collections and, therefore, every member of the public (including the 

general category) is entitled to be considered for admission in the 

said increase. The learned Counsel also strongly objected to "caste" being taken as a means of classification and identification of SEBCs 

and OBCs. It is contended that it is in complete derogation of 

provisions of Article 15(1) and, according to the petitioner's learned 

Counsel, many of the castes which have been included in SEBCs are 

really not SEBCs and thus past historical discrimination is entirely 

irrelevant for conferment of benefits in the present times. It was also 

contended that there are no traditional occupations now. It is 


submitted that the identification of castes as a "class" to justify the 

same as being occupations on a presumption that the persons 

belonging to a particular caste continue to follow a particular 

occupation especially in the present constitutional scheme which 

gives freedom to choose any business, occupation or profession is 

entirely fallacious. The learned Counsel for the petitioner also 

contended that the non-exclusion of creamy layer is illegal 

and relied on Indra Sawhney 's case (supra) and Indra Sawhney 

(II) Vs. Union of India & Others16. 36. Shri Ashoka Kumar Thakur, who appeared in person, 

supported all the contentions raised by various learned Counsel and 

urged that the Ninety-Third Constitution Amendment as well as the 

Act 5 of 2007 are unconstitutional and they are liable to be struck 

down. 37. On behalf of the respondents, several Senior Counsel 

appeared and contended that the contentions of the petitioners 

challenging the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment and the Act 5 

of 2007 are without any merit and are liable to be dismissed. The 

16 (2000) 1 SCC 168, at p. 190


contentions raised by the petitioners' Counsel were refuted by the 

respondents' Counsel by raising the plea that affirmative action is 

needed for promoting educational and economic interest of weaker 

section of society. Shri K. Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel 

appearing for the Union of India, submitted that the Constitution is to 

be interpreted as an integral, logical whole, and while construing one 

part, regard must be had to the provisions of the other parts, 

rendering no portion as unnecessary or redundant. It was argued 

that when constitutional provisions are interpreted, it has to be borne 

in mind that the interpretation is such as to further the object of their 

incorporation and they cannot be interpreted in a manner that renders 

another provision redundant. 38. It was argued that the constitutional provision must not be 

construed in a narrow and constricted sense but in a wide and liberal 

manner so as to anticipate and take into account the changing 

conditions and purposes so that the constitutional provision does not 

get fossilized but remains flexible enough to meet the newly 

emerging problems and challenges of this age. Reference was made 

to various decisions rendered by this Court regarding the 


interpretations of constitutional provisions. It was pointed out that 

when social welfare measures are sought to be implemented and the 

Constitution has to be interpreted in such context, it has to be kept in 

mind that the Preamble is the text which sets out the goal that is to be 

attained; and that Part III is the texture into which is woven a pattern 

of rights. 39. Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles are both 

complementary and supplementary to each other. Preamble is a part 

of the Constitution and the edifice of our Constitution is built upon the 

concepts crystallized in the Preamble. Reference was made to the 

observations made by Chief Justice Sikri in His Holiness 

Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru Vs. State of Kerala17 , 

wherein it was argued that the Constitution should be read and 

interpreted in the light of the grand and noble vision expressed in the 

Preamble. The Preamble secures and assures to all citizens justice, 

social, economic and political and it assures the equality of status 

and of opportunity. Education and the economic well-being of an 

individual give a status in society. When a large number of OBCs, 

SCs and STs get better educated and get into Parliament, legislative 

17 [1973] Supp. SCR 1 = (1973) 4 SCC 225


assemblies, public employment, professions and into other walks of 

public life, the attitude that they are inferior will disappear. This will 

promote fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity 

and integrity of the nation. The single most powerful tool for the 

upliftment and progress of such diverse communities is education. 40. The Fundamental Rights in Part III are not to be read in isolation. All rights conferred in Part III of the Constitution are subject to at least 

other provisions of the said Part III. The Directive Principles of State 

Policy in Part IV of the Constitution are equally as important as 

Fundamental Rights. Part IV is made not enforceable by Court for 

the reason inter alia as to financial implications and priorities. Principles of Part IV have to be gradually transformed into 

fundamental rights depending upon the economic capacity of the 

State. Article 45 is being transformed into a fundamental right by 86 th 

Amendment of the Constitution by inserting Article 21 A. Clause 2 of Article 38 says that, "the State shall, in particular, strive to minimize 

the inequalities in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in 

status, facilities and opportunities, not only amongst individuals but 

also amongst groups of people residing in different areas or engaged 


in different vocations". Under Article 46 , "the State shall promote 

with special care the educational and economic interests of the 

weaker sections of the people and, in particular, of the Scheduled 

Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social 

injustice and all forms of exploitation". It is submitted that the Ninety- Third Constitutional Amendment was brought into force to bring about 

economic and social regeneration of the teeming millions who are 

steeped in poverty, ignorance and social backwardness. Shri K. 

Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel, contended that the concept of 

basic structure is not a vague concept and it was illustrated in the 

judgment in Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra). It was pointed 

out that the supremacy of the Constitution, republican and democratic 

form of Government and sovereignty of the country, secular and 

federal character of the Constitution, demarcation of power between 

the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, the dignity of the 

individual (secured by the various freedoms and basic rights in Part 

III and the mandate to build a welfare State contained in Part IV), the 

unity and the integrity of the nation are some of the principles of basic 

structure of the Constitution. It was contended that when the 

constitutional validity of a statute is considered, the cardinal rule to be 


followed is to look at the Preamble to the Constitution as the guiding 

light and the Directive Principles of State Policy as a book of 

interpretation. On a harmonious reading of the Preamble, Part III 

and Part IV, it is manifest that there is a Constitutional promise to the 

weaker sections / SEBCs and this solemn duty has to be fulfilled. 41. It was pointed out that the observations in Champakam 

Dorairajan (supra) that the Directive Principles are subordinate to 

the Fundamental Rights is no longer good law after the decision of 

the Kesavanda Bharati (supra) case and other decisions of this 

Court. It was pointed out that the de facto inequalities which exist in 

the society are to be taken into account and affirmative action by way 

of giving preference to the socially and economically disadvantaged 

persons or inflicting handicaps on those more advantageously placed 

is to be made in order to bring about real equality. It is submitted that 

special provision for advancement of any socially and educationally 

backward citizens may be made by determining the socially and 

educationally backward classes on the basis of caste. Article 15(4) neutralized the decision in Champakam Dorairajan 's case (surpa). It was enacted by the Provisional Parliament which consisted of the 


very same Members who constituted the Constituent Assembly. Our 

Constitution is not caste blind and the Constitution prohibits 

discrimination based `only on caste' and not `caste and something 

else'. 42. In Unni Krishnan 's case (supra) it was held that Article 19(1)(g) is not attracted for establishing and running educational institutions. But this decision was overruled in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) 

and it was held that establishing and running an educational 

institution is an "occupation" within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g). In P.A. Inamdar 's case (supra), it was held that the private 

educational institutions, including minority institutions, are free to 

admit students of their own choice and the State by regulatory 

measures cannot control the admission. It was held that the State 

cannot impose reservation policy to unaided institutions. The above 

ruling disabled the State to resort to its enabling power under Article 

15(4) of the Constitution. It was argued by Shri Parasaran that the 

above rulings necessitated the enactment of The Constitution 

(Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 by inserting Article 15(5) through which enabling power was conferred on the Parliament and 


the State Legislatures, so that they would have the legislative 

competence to pass a law providing for reservation in educational 

institutions which will not be hit by Article 19(1)(g). But rights of 

minorities under Article 30 are not touched by Article 15(5). 43. In Kesavananda Bharati (supra) it was held that the fundamental 

rights may not be abrogated but they can be abridged. The validity of 

the 24th Amendment of the Constitution abridging the fundamental 

rights was upheld by the Court. The right under Article 19(1)(f) has 

been completely abrogated by the 44th Amendment of the 

Constitution which is permissible for the constituent power to abridge 

the Fundamental Rights especially for reaching the goal of the 

Preamble of the Constitution. It is an instance of transforming the 

principles of Part IV into Part III whereby it becomes enforceable. All 

rights conferred in Part III of the Constitution are subject to other 

provisions in the same Part. Article 15(4) introduced by the 1 st 

Amendment to the Constitution is a similar instance of abridging of 

Fundamental Rights of the general category of citizens to ensure the 

Fundamental Rights of OBCs, SCs and STs. Article 15(5) is a similar 

provision and is well within the Constituent power of amendment. Article 15(5) is an enabling provision and vests power in the 

Parliament and the State legislatures. 44. There is vital distinction between the vesting of a power and the 

exercise of power and the manner of its exercise. It would only 

enable the Parliament and the State legislatures to make special 

provisions by law for enforcement of any socially and educationally 

backward class of citizens or for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

Tribes relating to their admission to educational institutions including 

private educational institutions. 45. As regards exemption of minority educational institutions in Article 15(5) , it was contended that this was done to conform with the 

Constitutional mandate of additional protection for minorities under Article 30. It was argued that Article 15(5) does not override Article 

15(4). They have to be read together as supplementary to each 

other and Article 15(5) being an additional provision, there is no 

conflict between Article 15(4) and Article 15(5). Article 15(4) , 15(5) , 

29(2) , 30(1) , and 30(2) all together constitute a Code in relation to 

admission to educational institutions. They have to be harmoniously 


construed in the light of the Preamble and Part IV of the Constitution. It was also contended that the Article 15(5) does not interfere with the 

executive power of the State and there is no violation of the proviso 

to Article 368. 46. The Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment does not specifically 

or impliedly make any change in Article 162. Article 15(5) does not 

seek to make any change in Article 162 either directly or indirectly. The field of legislation as to "education" was in Entry 11 of List II. By 

virtue of the 42nd Amendment of the Constitution, "education", which 

was in Entry 11 in List II, was deleted and inserted as Entry 25 in List 

III. The executive power of the State is not touched by the present 

Constitutional Amendment. 47. Article 15(5) does not abrogate the fundamental right enshrined 

under Article 19(1)(g). If at all there is an abridgement of 

Fundamental Right, it is in a limited area of admission to educational 

institutions and such abridgement does not violate the basic structure 

of the Constitution. In any way, Constitutional Amendments giving 

effect to Directive Principles of the State Policy would not offend the 


basic structure of the Constitution. 48. The Right to Equality enshrined in our Constitution is not merely a 

formal right or a vacuous declaration. Affirmative action though 

apparently discriminatory is calculated to produce equality on a 

broader basis. By eliminating de facto inequalities and placing the 

weaker sections of the community on a footing of equality with the 

stronger and more powerful sections so that each member of the 

community whatever is his birth, occupation or social position may 

be, enjoys equal opportunity of using to the full, his natural 

endowments of physique, of character and of intelligence. 49. Shri Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel, further contended that 

the Act 5 of 2007 is a constitutionally valid piece of legislation. Under Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 2007, there is no excessive delegation. The 

plea of the petitioners that the Parliament itself should have 

determined OBCs and that Act 5 of 2007 suffers from excessive 

delegation or lack of guidelines is not tenable. The backward classes 

of citizens have to be identified on the materials and evidence and 

therefore the Parliament necessarily has to leave it to the Executive. The determination of OBCs is a long-drawn process which would 

cause enormous delay. Therefore, it was appropriate to leave the 

identification to the Executive. Such determination of each class as 

backward class would be open to judicial review. And the scope of 

judicial review would be wider if the same is made by the Executive 

rather than by the Parliament. 50. It is also contended that merely because no time limit is fixed, 

Act 5 of 2007 cannot be rendered invalid. The Parliament has got the 

power to review periodically and either make modifications in the Act 

or repeal the Act. It is for the first time certain special provisions are 

being made in favour of socially and educationally backward classes 

of citizens, SCs and STs for reservation of seats in Central 

Educational Institutions after 56 years of coming into force of the 

Constitution. At its very commencement, a time limit may not be 

anticipated and fixed. Over a period of time depending upon the 

result of the measures taken and improvements in the status and 

educational advancement of the SCs, STs and SEBCs, the matter 

could always be reviewed. The Act cannot be struck down at the 

very commencement on the ground no time limit for its operation has 


been fixed. 51. It was also submitted that the quantum of reservation provided 

under the Act is valid. The ratio of population is a relevant 

consideration in fixing the quantum of reservation. Reservation in 

favour of OBCs is 27% and by adding the percentage of reservation 

for SCs and STs, the total quantum of reservation does not exceed 

50%. It is indisputable that the population of OBCs exceeds 27% and 

SCs and STs constitute more than 22 =%. The quantum of 

reservation within 50% has been determined by the Parliament based 

on facts considered by legislature and they are conclusive and the 

Courts do not exercise the power of judicial review by examining 

those facts. 52. The learned Senior Counsel also contended that the contention 

of the Petitioners that special provisions can only be made up to 

10+2 stage is untenable. If this plea is accepted, it would result in 

higher education being the privilege of the higher classes only and it 

would be a distortion of the concept of social advancement of the 

downtrodden and the negation of the goal envisaged by the 


Preamble. It was also contended that the principle of reverse 

discrimination is not applicable. The Doctrine of Strict Scrutiny and 

Narrow Tailoring are not applicable in India as they are American 

doctrines which operate under different facts and circumstances. This court on earlier occasion had rejected these pleas, when dealing 

with admission to Post-graduate Medical Courses, when 75% of 

seats were being reserved on the basis of institutional preference. 53. The learned Senior Counsel further contended that the 

exclusion of creamy layer has no application to SCs and STs in 

regard to employment and education. Articles 341 , 342 , 366(24) and 366(25) of the Constitution would militate against such course of 

action. 54. It was held in E.V. Chinnaiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh & 

Ors.18 , that the SCs and STs form a single class. The observations 

in Nagaraj's case (supra) cannot be construed as requiring exclusion 

of creamy layer in SCs and STs. Creamy layer principle was applied 

for the identification of backward classes of citizens. And it was 

specifically held in Indra Sawhney 's case, (supra) that the above 

18 (2005) 1 SCC 394


discussion was confined to Other Backward Classes and has no 

relevance in the case of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. The observations of the Supreme Court in Nagaraj's case (supra) 

should not be read as conflicting with the decision in Indra 

Sawhney 's case (supra). The observations in Nagaraj's case 

(supra) as regards SCs and STs are obiter. In regard to SCs and 

STs, there can be no concept of creamy layer. 55. Once the President of India has determined the list of 

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, it is only by a law made by 

the Parliament that there can be exclusion from the list of Scheduled 

Castes or Scheduled Tribes. As far as OBCs are concerned, the 

principle of exclusion of creamy lawyer is applicable only for Article 

16(4). It has no application to Article 15(4) or 15(5) as education 

stands on a different footing. 56. Equality of opportunity of education is a must for every citizen 

and the doctrine of "creamy layer" is inapplicable and inappropriate in 

the context of giving opportunity for education. In the matter of 

education there cannot be any exclusion on the ground of creamy 


layer. Such exclusion would only be counter productive and would 

retard the development and progress of the groups and communities 

and their eventual integration with the rest of the society. 57. It was further argued that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are provisions 

of power coupled with duty. It is the constitutional duty to apply these 

principles in the governance of the country and in making law for the 

reason that it is a constitutional promise of social justice which has to 

be redeemed. 58. It was strongly contended by the learned Senior Counsel 

Shri Parasaran that the validity of the constitutional amendment and 

the validity of plenary legislation have to be decided purely on the 

basis of constitutional law. And the submission, as it was contended 

that the Amendment has a vote catching mechanism is inappropriate. The contention that the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment is 

against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is also not 

tenable. Right to Equality of Opportunity operates at every level and 

it is being provided for a particular level either by a legislative or an 

executive action. The merit has to be interpreted in the context of 


egalitarian equality and not formal equality. 59. It was also submitted that the speeches in the Parliament, 

constitutional debates, text books of authors and views expressed in 

articles do not normally constitute evidence before the Court to 

determine the Constitutional validity of the legislations. 60. Shri G.E. Vahanvati, learned Solicitor General of India appearing 

on behalf of the Union of India, submitted that the argument of Shri 

Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel that the American doctrine of 

"strict scrutiny" should be applied to the affirmative action envisaged 

under Article 15(5) is not correct. It was argued that the impugned 

legislation is not ex facie discriminatory and, therefore, it cannot be 

classified as a "suspect legislation". It was argued that right that from 

the case of T
 he General Manager S
 outhern Railway Vs. 

Rangachari,19 Article 16(4) is an exception to Article 16(1) and this 

reasoning was followed in M.R. Balaji & Others Vs. State of 

Mysore20 by a five Judge Bench. Thereafter, the same view 

prevailed in T. Devadasan Vs. The Union of India & Anr.21 But 19 1962 (2) SCR 586 at p. 607

20 (1963) Supp. 1 SCR 439 at 455 = AIR 1963 SC 649

21 1964 (4) SCR 680


Subba Rao. J. (as he then was) said that "the expression `nothing in 

this article' is a legislative device to express its intention in a most 

emphatic way that the power conferred there under is not limited in 

any way by the main provision but falls outside it" . The view that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively was again reiterated in Triloki Nath Vs. State of 

Jammu & Kashmir & Ors. (II )22 and in The State of Andhra 

Pradesh & Ors. Vs. U.S.V. Balram, Etc23 . The learned Solicitor 

General further pointed out that in State of Kerala & Anr. Vs N.M. 

Thomas & Ors.24 the majority opinion held that Articles 14 , 15 and 16 are parts of the scheme of equality and that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Articles 15(1) and 16(1) respectively. The 

said change in N.M. Thomas 's case (supra) was noticed by Justice 

Chinnappa Reddy in K.C. Vasanth Kumar & Anr. Vs. State of 

Karnataka25 and the same view was upheld in Indra Sawhney 's 

case (supra). The learned Solicitor General further contended that 

once it is accepted that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Articles 15(1) and 16(1) respectively, then there is no question of 

22 1969 (1) SCR 103

23 1972 (1) SCC 660

24 1976 (2) SCC 310

25 (1985) Supp SCC 714


treating the social welfare measure as being `facially discriminatory' 

or "ex facie" violative of the rule of equality. It was argued that it is 

not simply a matter of legal equality. De jure equality must ultimately 

find its raison d'etre in de facto equality. The State must, therefore, 

resort to compensatory State action for the purpose of uplifting 

people who are factually unequal in their wealth, education or social 

environment. Relying on the observations of Subba Rao, J. in T. 

Devadasan 's case (supra), it was argued that centuries of calculated 

oppression and habitual submission has reduced a considerable 

section of our community to a life of serfdom and it would be well nigh 

impossible to raise their standards if the doctrine of equal opportunity 

was strictly enforced in their case and they would not have any 

change if they were made to enter the open field of competition 

without adventitious aids till such time when they could stand on their 

own legs. Laying reliance on the observations made in N.M. 

Thomas 's case (supra) and also in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra), 

the learned Solicitor General argued that under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) the State is obliged to remove inequalities and backwardness 

from society. It was further submitted that the American doctrine of 

"strict scrutiny" had been expressly rejected by this Court in Saurabh 


Chaudri & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.26 As regards 

identification of backward classes, the learned Solicitor General 

contended that while dealing with the aspect of identification of 

backwardness for socially and educationally backward classes, it 

cannot be denied that there is backwardness in this country; that 

large sections of the country are socially and educationally backward; that this problem is not new but is age old; that such backwardness 

arose because of certain peculiarities of the caste system which 

proceeded on the assumption that the choice of occupation of 

members of a caste was pre-determined in many castes; and that 

members of particular castes were prohibited from engaging 

themselves in occupations other than those certain occupations 

which were considered to be degrading and impure and considered 

fit only for those castes. It was pointed out that Chief Justice 

Wanchoo in C.A. Rajendran Vs. Union of India & Ors.27 held that 

the main criteria for inclusion in the list is social and educational 

backwardness of the castes based on the occupation pursued by 

those castes. Reference was made to various decisions rendered by 

this Court on this issue, especially Minor A. Peeriakaruppan & 

26 (2003) 11 SCC 146

27 (1968) 1 SCR 721


Anr. Vs. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors.28; U.S.V. Balram (supra); K.C. 

Vasanth Kumar (supra), referred to earlier. The learned Solicitor 

General also pointed out that in B
 . Venkataramana Vs. The State 

of Madras & Anr.29 , the list of backward classes as mentioned in 

Schedule 3 to the Madras Provincial and Subordinate Services Rule, 

1942 was approved and which was also noticed in Indra Sawhney 's 

case (supra). Reference was also made to the debates in Parliament 

where Dr. Ambedkar stated that "the backward classes are nothing 

but collection of certain castes". It was further contended that it is 

incorrect to say that the majority in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra) 

did not accept or approve the Mandal Commission Report. That 

Report was referred to in several places in that judgment and the 

criterion adopted by the Mandal Commission to classify the backward 

classes was more or less accepted. The learned Solicitor General 

also pointed out that it is not correct to say that the State Lists are 

defective and that they ought not to have been accepted by the 

Central Government. It is pointed out that the Central List has been 

operating for 14 years for the purposes of reservations of posts and 

not a single person has challenged any inclusion in the Central List 

28 1971 (1) SCC 38

29 AIR 1951 SC 229 = 1951 1 MLJ 625


as being void or illegal; that the State Lists have also been operating 

both for the purposes of Articles 16(4) and 15(4) and there has been 

no challenge at all in any High Court or in the Supreme Court with 

regard to the State List and that there has not been a single 

complaint made before the State Government or the National 

Commission with regard to over-inclusion of any caste or community. The learned Solicitor General pointed out that the allegations in 

relation to the working of the National Commission for the Backward 

Classes are not true. The National Commission has framed elaborate 

guidelines for consideration of request for inclusion and complaints of 

non-inclusion in the Central List for other backward classes. The 

guidelines have been framed after studying the criteria/indicators 

framed by the Mandal Commission and the Commissions set up in 

the past by different State Governments. The National Commission 

held 236 public hearings at various places since its inception. The 

National Commission had also prepared an elaborate questionnaire 

for considering classes for inclusion in the State Lists. Detailed data 

was required to be submitted with regard to social, educational and 

economic criteria of the communities that were considered. It is 

pointed out that during the period of its functioning the National 


Commission recommended 297 requests for inclusion and at the 

same time rejected 288 requests for inclusion of main castes. It was 

further pointed out that the National Commission has not 

mechanically allowed all applications for inclusion in the Central List. The National Commission while examining the applications had taken 

note of the ethnographic history of the concerned castes/sub- groups/communities and it has also taken note of the 

recommendations of the various State Commissions. It was also 

submitted that the contention that the inclusion of the caste in OBCs 

was motivated by political considerations is erroneous and the 

National Commission had emphatically rejected politically dominant 

castes such as the Marathas from being included in the Central List 

and several other castes were thus excluded from OBCs list. The 

learned Solicitor General also contended that the plea that 

reservation under Article 15(5) with reference to Article 29(2) would 

render 15(5) constitutionally violative is incorrect. Article 29(2) is a 

protection given by the Constitution against denial of admission to 

educational institutions on the ground of religion, race, caste, 

language or any of them. It does not apply if provision is made for 

backward classes when the basis for classification is not solely on 


these grounds. It was argued further that the American doctrines and 

tests relating to "strict scrutiny", "compelling State necessity" and 

"narrow tailoring" are tests which are not applicable to India at all. There is a presumption of constitutionality of the legislations passed 

by Parliament. The Indian Constitution specifically provides 

provisions like Articles 15(4) and 16(4) which permit special 

provisions for backward classes. It was also contended that it is 

incorrect to suggest that there have been no efforts on the part of 

successive Governments to concentrate on elementary education 

towards universal elementary education. "Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan" 61. Shri Gopal Subramanium, the learned Additional Solicitor General, 

supported the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 and 

also the provisions of Act 5 of 2007. The learned Additional Solicitor 


General submitted that the American doctrines are not applicable to 

India. In this regard, the observations of this Court in A.K. Roy Vs. 

Union of India & Ors.30 , that "we cannot transplant, in the Indian 

context and conditions, principles which took birth in other soils, 

without a careful examination of their relevance to the interpretation 

of our Constitution" were cited. It is pointed by the learned 

Additional Solicitor General that prepositions enunciated in the 

decisions of the United States Supreme Court in Regents of the 

University of California Vs. Bakke31, Grutter Vs. Bollinger32 and 

Gratz Vs. Bollinger33, and Parents Involved in Community 

Schools Vs. Seattle School District34, that the Court will apply the 

standard of strict scrutiny while reviewing legislation involving suspect 

classification; that and such legislation would be effected if two 

conditions are met, namely, (i) there is a compelling governmental 

interest in making the classification, and (ii) the legislation has been 

narrowly tailored to meet that classification; that the classification 

based on race is a suspect classification and that accordingly while 

race can be a factor in admission policies of educational institutions, 

30 1982 (1) SCC 271

31 438 US 265 (1978)

32 539 US 306 (2003)

33 539 US 244 (2003)

34 127 S.Ct. 2738 (2007)


it cannot be the sole factor and it cannot lead to the imposition of 

quotas, which are per se unconstitutional - each of these 

propositions has been rejected in Indian law and the Indian 

Constitution neither admits "suspect classification" nor "strict 

scrutiny". The constitutionality of quotas has been repeatedly 

affirmed and reliance by the Petitioners on the United States 

"affirmative action" judgments is wholly misconceived. The learned 

Additional Solicitor General has made special reference to various 

American decisions on the doctrine of "affirmative action". The 

learned Additional Solicitor General has also referred to the 

decisions of this Court in N.M. Thomas ' case ( supra) and K.C. 

Vasanth kumar 's case (supra) and other decisions to contend that Articles 16(4) and 15(4) are not exceptions to Articles 16(1) and 15(1) respectively and these provisions have to be read together with the 

principles of governance set out in Part IV of the Constitution and it is 

beyond doubt that underlying constitutional obligations are towards 

socially and educationally backward classes and there is a positive 

obligation on the State to take steps to eradicate their backwardness. The learned Additional Solicitor General also refuted the contentions 

advanced by Shri P.P. Rao, learned Senior Counsel, and contended 


that all efforts have been made by the Government to improve 

primary and upper primary education in India. The learned Additional 

Solicitor General also contended that the argument advanced by Dr. 

Rajeev Dhavan is not correct. He relied upon Arjun Sen Gupta's 

Report35 wherein it is stated :- 62. Shri Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the 

Intervener-Rashtriya Janta Dal Party in W.P. No. 313 of 2007 and 

W.P. No. 335 of 2007, contended that the attempt of the petitioners in 

these writ petitions is to off-set the decision of the Nine Judges Bench 

in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra). It is pointed out that the equality of 

citizens is the basic feature of the Indian Constitution but by "equality" is meant not "formal or technical equality" but "real and substantial 

equality". The word "only" used in Articles 15(1) and 16(2) is 

35 Arjun Sen Gupta Report on "Conditions of Work and Promotion of Livelihood in the Unorganised 

 Sector (July 2007)


decisive. Even if reservations are made for castes, the classification 

will become invalid if it is only on the basis of caste and if some other 

additional requirement is imposed, that case would be considered to 

be outside the prohibition of Article 15(1). Reference is made to B. 

Venkataramana 's case (supra). It was contended that a statute 

cannot be declared ultra vires merely because backwardness is a 

complex concept and no precise definition is possible. The Court is 

bound to assume that a state of facts existed at the time of the 

enactment of the statute which would validate that statute and when 

the Constitution of the United States came into effect it did not 

contain the constitutional right of equality. Even the Vth Amendment 

of 1971 to the Constitution of the United States of America did not 

introduce this concept. The XIVth Amendment of 1868 provided that 

the "State shall not deny to any person the equal protection of the 

laws". Even after this injunction, the United States Supreme Court 

delivered the judgment in Plessy Vs. Ferguson36, which laid down 

the doctrine of "Equal but Separate". This doctrine was in force till 

it was reversed in 1954. The learned Senior Counsel also contended 

that the policy of reservation is not destructive of merit and that the 

Symbiosis University is not covered by the statute. 36 (1896) 41 L.Ed. 256 63. Shri T.R. Andhyarujina, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for 

the respondents in W.P. 265/2006, contended that Articles 15(4) and 16(4) operate in different fields and Article 15(4) enables the State 

Government to make special provisions for backward classes, SCs 

and STs which can be done both by law or by executive order. The 

special provision in Article 15(4) is not restricted to advancement of 

SEBCs, SCs and STs in educational institutions only and enables the 

State to make several kinds of positive action programmes in addition 

to reservations. As a condition for giving aid, the State can make 

reservations for SEBCs, SCs and STs in educational institutions 

which are State owned or State aided. The State, however, cannot 

make such reservations in private unaided educational institutions, as 

held by this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) and P.A. 

Inamdar (supra). This disability was because of T.M.A. Pai 

Foundation (supra) which provided that private unaided educational 

institutions had a fundamental right to "occupation" of carrying on 

education under Article 19(1)(g). Therefore, the Parliament 

introduced Article 15(5) by the Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act to enable the State to make special provisions for 


the advancement of SCs, STs and SEBCs in relation to a specific 

subject, namely, admission in educational institutions including 

private educational institutions whether aided or unaided by the State 

notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19(1)(g). However, Article 

15(5) excluded private educational institutions which are minority 

educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30. The 

saving for minority educational institutions in Article 15(5) is really ex 

abundandi cautela as minority educational institutions were 

constitutionally protected and at all times considered different from 

other private educational institutions. Article 15(5) does not take 

away the "basic structure" of the Constitution. The "basic structure" 64. On behalf of the respondent/State of Bihar in Writ Petition (Civil) 

No. 269/2007, learned Senior Counsel Shri Rakesh Dwivedi 

submitted that the use of non-obstante clauses in Article 15(3) , (4) and (5) vis-a-vis Article 15(1) shows that the prohibition against use 

of only caste as a ground for discrimination qua any citizen is there in 

so far as making of a special provision for advancement of prescribed 

categories is concerned. There is no repugnance between 15(4) and 

15(5). It was contended that in Kesavananda Bharati 's case 

(supra), it was held that "Part III of the Constitution could be amended 

subject to the basic structure doctrine". The view which was held in I.C. Golak Nath & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab & Anrs,37 making Article 368 more restrictive, had been overruled in Kesavananda 

Bharati 's case (supra). The Fundamental Rights are not absolute 

and are designed to suffer reasonable restrictions and classifications. Any sort of abridgement by Constitutional Amendment is clearly 

37 (1967) 2 SCR 762


permissible so long as the invasion does not amount to total 

elimination or emasculation. Within the domain of equality there is 

distinction between formal equality and real equality or equality in fact 

and both are comprehended in Article 14 and both are part of the 

basic structure. 65. The learned Senior Counsel also contended that the judicial 

review ideas of "suspect classification", "strict scrutiny", "compelling 

State interest" and "narrow tailoring" are measures propounded by 

the U.S. Supreme Court are not applicable and the Supreme Court of 

India has consistently taken a view that the judgments of the U.S. 

Supreme Court do not afford safe guidance on account of differing 

structure of the provisions under the two constitutions and the social 

conditions in these two countries being different. 66. Reference was made to the various decisions of this court and it 

was argued that the comparison of the 14th Amendment of the US 

Supreme Court read with Civil Rights Act, 1964 on the one hand and 

the fascicules of equality provisions in the Constitution of India, i.e. Article 14 to 18 on the other hand shows that the equality provisions 


of our Constitution are not only differently structured but it contains 

provisions for making special provisions for the advancement of 

SEBCs & SCs/STs. It is pointed out that our Constitution additionally 

enshrines Directive Principles of State Policy in Part-IV of the 

Constitution requiring the State to strive to promote justice social, 

economic and political and to minimize the inequalities in income and 

endeavour to remove inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities 

( Article 38 ). 67. Shri Ravivarma Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for 

Pattali Makkal Katchi, contended that the creamy layer principle shall 

not be invoked for the purpose of Article 15(5). According to the 

Counsel, reservation in educational institutions is not a poverty 

alleviation programme nor it is a programme to eradicate 

unemployment. Reservation under Article 15(5) is not even a 

programme to educate all the backward classes. According to the 

Counsel the one and only goal of the reservation policy under Clause 

4 & 5 of Article 15 of the Constitution is to bring about equality among 

various castes and unless all the castes are brought to one level 

playing field, the caste system cannot be eradicated. It is intended 


for removal of inequality between castes so that the castes will come 

together. These provisions are designed to bring together the 

leaders of each caste and community together and the same can be 

achieved only if the best teachers, the best administrators, the best 

doctors, the best engineers and the best lawyers are brought 

together. And so long as the gap in education persists between 

castes, the castes will not come together. It is only when each 

backward caste is permitted to advance educationally to meet the 

educational level of upper castes, can there be a real egalitarian 

society. According to the Counsel, it is precisely for this reason that 

Clause (2) of Article 38 seeks to eliminate inequality in status, 

facilities and opportunities, not only among individuals, but also 

among groups of people. Therefore, it is to provide for such equality 

in status, facilities and opportunities, that reservation is contemplated 

to those castes which are socially and educationally below other 

castes. If the best from the lower caste are deprived of these 

facilities and opportunities in the name of "creamy layer", it will be 

counter productive and frustrate the very object of reservation, 

namely to achieve equality in status, facilities and opportunities. 68. The Counsel also contended that the question of prescribing 

prior time limit for reservation under the impugned Act is immature 

and should not be considered at this stage. 69. The link between "caste" and its occupation is an unbreakable 

bondage to which the caste system has condemned the backward 

classes. Whether a backward caste man carries on his traditional 

occupation or not, he continues to be socially identified with the said 

occupation. This link between the caste and the occupation has not 

been severed for thousands of years and it cannot be broken by 

arguments and theories. The ground reality is that every caste in 

every village is identified by its traditional occupation. And all the 

service communities continue to discharge their traditional 

occupation. It is pointed out that throughout the country in 6.5 lakh 

villages, it is the barber communities and barber communities alone, 

which carry on the traditional occupation of hair cuttings and no other 

community has taken up the said occupation. And they continue to 

labour without any social security or whatsoever. 70. The Counsel pointed out that the last six decennial censuses 

have eschewed recording of caste particulars, the three National 

Commissions and scores of State Commissions have found these 

Census data useless in identification of Backward Classes. 71. The learned Counsel submitted that there is no justification for 

not collecting details of caste identity at the decennial census 

operation. According to the Counsel a massive exercise is rendered 

useless for the all important work of identification of Backward 

Classes. 72. It is further submitted that the entire identification of backward 

classes has not been done on the basis of 1931 Census data. In 

each State the identification of Backward Classes has been done on 

the basis of criteria evolved by the State Commissions on social, 

educational and economic parameters. Each State has adopted its 

own methodology. The identification of backward classes is 

essentially done at the State level on a very objective criteria and a 

scientific methodology. According to the Counsel, origin of the term 

"classes of citizens" may be traced to the later part of the 19th 

century. Quite often classes have been interchangeably used with 


castes, tribes and communities. Some of the earlier Committee 

reports referred to Depressed Classes. Under the 1919 Act, 

Governors of the provinces give instruction to take measures for the 

social and industrial welfare of the people and tending to fit all 

classes of population. And the Provincial Governments prepared a 

list of Backward Classes with three parts namely, Depressed 

Classes, Aboriginal Tribes and Backward Communities. Dr. 

Ambedkar demanded separate electorate for the Depresses Classes 

at the Round Table Conference. 73. The Counsel also pointed out that the building of a casteless 

society is not the goal of the Constitution. And that it is futile to 

contend that caste should not be considered for any purpose 

whatsoever. In every conceivable activity of private life caste system 

plays an important role. There are hundreds of communal hostels 

and educational institutions owned and managed by certain 

communities. Some castes and communities have communal clubs, 

associations, cooperatives, banks etc. Their membership and 

admission are confined to a particular caste or community. Even 

carrying of the caste names is the guaranteed right of every citizen. There is nothing in the Constitution to prohibit a person from 

discriminating on the ground only of caste or community in matters 

relating to marriage, electing candidates to political position etc. Most 

of the professional colleges like medical, dental and engineering 

colleges are established and administered by a body of persons 

exclusively belonging to a class or a community. Though Dr. 

Ambedkar intended to abolish caste system by abolishing all the 

privileges and disabilities of the forward classes, the plea was 

opposed by Shri K.M. Munshi and the Draft Article 3(4) stated: 74. The Constitution never prohibits the practice of caste and 

casteism. Every activity in Hindu society, from cradle to grave is 

carried on solely on the basis of one's caste. Even after death, a 

Hindu is not allowed to be cremated in the crematorium which is 

maintained for the exclusive use of the other caste or community. Dalits are not permitted to be buried in graves or cremated in 

crematoriums where upper caste people bury or cremate their dead. Christians have their own graveyards. Muslims are not allowed to be 

buried in the Hindu crematoriums and vice-versa. Thus, caste rules 

the roost in the life of a Hindu and even after his death. In such 

circumstances, it is entirely fallacious to advance this argument on 

the ground that the Constitution has prohibited the use of caste. It 

was argued what the Constitution aims at is achievement of equality 

between the castes and not elimination of castes. 75. The learned Senior Counsel points out that it would be utopian 

to expect that by ignoring caste, the castes will perish. And the 

Counsel contended the Constitution has not abolished the caste 

system much less has it prohibited its use. The Counsel pointed out 

that the Constitutional Amendment under the impugned Act in favour 

of backward classes is an unprecedented leap taking the higher 

education in the country forward, without depriving a single seat to 

the forward castes. And the advanced castes, with a population of 

less than 20% would still be able to get 50% of the seats in the name 

of merit disproportionate to their known proportion of their population. It is contended that without the advancement of SCs, STs and OBCs 

constituting over 80% population and mainly living in rural areas, it 


will not be possible to take the nation forward. And the students who 

are admitted under the reserved quota have performed much better 

than the students admitted on the basis of merit. The learned 

Counsel also placed reliance on the Moily Report - Case studies 

from four States. 76. The main challenge in these writ petitions is the constitutional 

validity of the Act 5 of 2007. This legislation was passed by 

Parliament consequent upon The Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act, 2005 , by which sub-article (5) was inserted in Article 15 of the Constitution. The constitutionality of this amendment 

has also been challenged in the various writ petitions filed by the 

petitioners. As the Act itself is based on the Constitution (Ninety- Third Amendment) Act, 2005, the validity of the Act depends on the 

fact whether the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 itself is valid or not. Article 15 of the Constitution, after the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , reads as follows :- 77. T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) held that a private unaided 

educational institution has the fundamental right under Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution as the running of an educational institution was 

treated as an "occupation" and further that the State's regulation in 

such institutions would not be regarded as a reasonable restriction on 

that fundamental right to carry on business under Article 19(6). This 

decision necessitated the Ninety-Third Amendment to the 

Constitution since as a result of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) the 


State would not be in a position to control or regulate the admission 

in private educational institutions. At the outset, it may have to be 

stated that no educational institution has come up to challenge the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 . The challenge 

about the constitutionality of the Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act, 2005 has been advanced by the petitioners, who 

based their contentions on the equality principles enunciated in Articles 14 , 15 and 16 of the Constitution. 78. The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 is 

challenged on many grounds. The first ground of attack is that if the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 is allowed to stand 

it would be against the "basic structure" of the Constitution itself and 

this Amendment seriously abridges the equality principles guaranteed 

under Article 15 and other provisions of the Constitution. Another 

contention raised by the petitioners' Counsel is that the Golden 

Triangle of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 is not to be altered and the balance 

and structure of these constitutional provisions has been ousted by 

the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 . Yet another 

contention urged by Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior 


Counsel, is that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually exclusive and 

under Article 15(5) the minority educational institutions are excluded. According to him, this is a clear contravention of the secular and 

equality principles. The learned Senior Counsel also pointed out that 

minority institutions are not severable from the purview of Article 

15(5) and therefore, the whole Constitution (Ninety-Third 

Amendment) Act, 2005 is to be declared illegal. Another argument 

advanced by the learned Senior Counsel is that there is 

inconsistency between Article 15(4) and Article 15(5) and by virtue of 

the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , the States are 

devoid of their wide power under Article 15(5) to make reservation in 

minority educational institutions which are getting aid from the States 

and thus it is violative of the very essence of equality. He further 

argued that the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 could control the legislative and executive power of the State and, 

therefore, it is not constitutionally valid. The learned Counsel had 

further challenged the validity of Act 5 of 2007, with which we will 

deal separately. 1. Wh
 ether Ninety-Third Amendment of the Constitution i s 


against the "basic structure" of the Constitution? 79. The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 , by which 

clause (5) was added to Article 15 of the Constitution, is an enabling 

provision which states that nothing in Article 15 or in sub-clause (g) 

of clause (1) of article 19 shall prevent the State from making any 

special provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and 

educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled 

Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in so far as such special provisions 

relate to their admission to the educational institutions including 

private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the 

State. Of course, minority educational institutions referred to in 

clause (1) of Article 30 are excluded. Thus, the newly added clause 

(5) of Article 15 is sought to be applied to educational institutions 

whether aided or unaided. In other words, this newly added 

constitutional provision would enable the State to make any special 

provision by law for admission in private educational institutions 

whether aided or unaided. In all the petitions which have been filed 

before us the main challenge is against Act 5 of 2007. Act 5 of 2007 

has been enacted to provide reservation of seats for Scheduled 

Castes, Scheduled Tribes and SEBCs of citizens in Central 


Educational Institutions. The "Central Educational Institution" has 

been defined under Section 2(d) of the Act. They are institutions 

established or incorporated by or under the Central Act or set up by 

an Act of Parliament or deemed Universities maintained by or 

receiving aid from the Central Government or institutions maintained 

by or receiving aid from the Central Government or educational 

institutions set up by the Central Government under the Societies 

Registration Act, 1860 . Act 5 of 2007 is not intended to provide 

reservation in "private unaided" educational institutions. None of the 

private unaided educational institutions have filed petitions before us 

challenging the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment. Though the 

learned counsel appearing for the petitioners have challenged the 

Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment on various grounds, they 

were vis-`-vis the challenge to Act 5 of 2007. The counter to the 

challenge by the learned Solicitor General as well as by Shri K. 

Parasaran, learned Senior Counsel was also in that context. We do 

not want to enter a finding as to whether the Ninety-Third 

Constitutional Amendment is violative of the "basic structure" of the 

Constitution so far as it relates to "private unaided" educational 

institutions. In the absence of challenge by private unaided 


educational institutions, it would not be proper to pronounce upon the 

constitutional validity of that part of the Constitutional Amendment. As the main challenge in these various petitions was only regarding 

the provisions of Act 5 of 2007, which related to state maintained 

institutions, the challenge to the Ninety-Third Constitutional 

Amendment so far as it relates to private unaided educational 

institutions, does not strictly arise in these proceedings. In the 

absence of challenge by private unaided institutions, it may not be 

proper for this Court to decide whether the Ninety-Third Constitutional 

Amendment is violative of the "basic structure" of the Constitution so 

far as it relates to private unaided educational institutions merely 

because we are considering its validity in the context of Act 5 of 

2007. We feel that such questions could be decided as the main questions 

that are involved in these petitions are specific regarding Act 5 of 

2007, we leave open the question as to whether the Ninety-Third 

Amendment to the Constitution by which sub-clause (5) was inserted 

is violative of the basic structure doctrine or not so far as it relates to 

"private unaided" educational institutions to be decided in other 


appropriate cases. We deal only with the question of whether the 

Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment is constitutionally valid so far 

as it relates to the state maintained institutions and aided educational 

institutions. 80. Several contentions have been advanced by the petitioners' 

Counsel challenging the constitutional validity of the Constitution 

(Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 . The main argument was on 

the ground that this amendment is against the "basic structure" of the 

Constitution. In order to appreciate the contention of the petitioners' 

Counsel, it is necessary to understand the "basic structure" theory 

that has been propounded in the celebrated case of Kesavananda 

Bharati (supra). This case was a decision of 13 Judge Bench of this 

Court. Though the Judges were not unanimous about what the "basic 

structure" of the Constitution be, however, Shelat J. (at page 280) in 

his judgment had indicated the following basic features of the 

Constitution :- 81. Sikri, CJ (at page 165-166) held that :- 83. Hegde & Mukherjee, JJ. finally concluded (at p 355) that : 84. Ray J. (as he then was) (at p 461) held that :- 85. Palekar, J. (at p. 632) concluded that :- 86. Khanna, J. (at p. 758, 759) concluded that :- 87. Mathew, J. (at p. 857) held that :- 88. Beg, J. (at p. 886) held that :- He upheld the 24th Amendment and the 25th Amendment Act 

including addition of Article 31C. 89. Dwivedi, J finally concluded that : 90. Finally, Chandrachud, J. ( at p. 1000) held that : 91. A survey of the conclusions reached by the learned Judges in Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra) clearly shows that the power of 

amendment was very wide and even the fundamental rights could be 

amended or altered. It is also important to note that the decision in 

RE : The Berubari Union and Exchange of Enclaves, Reference 

under Article 143(1) of the Constitution of India38, to the effect that 

preamble to the Constitution was not part of the Constitution was 

disapproved in Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra) and it was held 

that it is a part of the Constitution and the Preamble to the 

Constitution is of extreme importance and the Constitution should be 

read and interpreted in the light of the grand and noble visions 

envisaged in the Preamble. A close analysis of the decisions in Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra) shows that all the provisions of 

the Constitution, including the fundamental rights, could be amended 

or altered and the only limitation placed is that the basic structure of 

the Constitution shall not be altered. The judgment in 

38 ( 1960) 3 SCR 250


Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra) clearly indicates what is the 

basic structure of the Constitution. It is not any single idea or 

principle like equality or any other constitutional principles that are 

subject to variation, but the principles of equality cannot be 

completely taken away so as to leave the citizens in this country in a 

state of lawlessness. But the facets of the principle of equality could 

always be altered especially to carry out the Directive Principles of 

the State Policy envisaged in Part IV of the Constitution. The 

Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 is to be examined 

in the light of the above position. 92. The basic structure of the Constitution is to be taken as a larger 

principle on which the Constitution itself is framed and some of the 

illustrations given as to what constitutes the basic structure of the 

Constitution would show that they are not confined to the alteration or 

modification of any of the Fundamental Rights alone or any of the 

provisions of the Constitution. Of course, if any of the basic rights 

enshrined in the Constitution are completely taken out, it may be 

argued that it amounts to alteration of the Basic Structure of the 

Constitution. For example, the federal character of the Constitution is 


considered to be the basic structure of the Constitution. There are 

large number of provisions in the Constitution dealing with the federal 

character of the Constitution. If any one of the provisions is altered or 

modified, that does not amount to the alteration of the basic structure 

of the Constitution. Various fundamental rights are given in the 

Constitution dealing with various aspects of human life. The 

Constitution itself sets out principles for an expanding future and is 

obligated to endure for future ages to come and consequently it has 

to be adapted to the various changes that may take place in human 

affairs. 93. For determining whether a particular feature of the Constitution is 

part of the basic structure or not, it has to be examined in each 

individual case keeping in mind the scheme of the Constitution, its 

objects and purpose and the integrity of the Constitution as a 

fundamental instrument for the country's governance. It may be 

noticed that it is not open to challenge the ordinary legislations on the 

basis of the basic structure principle. State legislation can be 

challenged on the question whether it is violative of the provisions of 

the Constitution. But as regards constitutional amendments, if any 


challenge is made on the basis of basic structure, it has to be 

examined based on the basic features of the Constitution. It may be 

noticed that the majority in Kesavananda Bharati 's case (supra) did 

not hold that all facets of Article 14 or any of the fundamental rights 

would form part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The 

majority upheld the validity of the first part of Article 30(1)(c) which 

would show that the constitutional amendment which takes away or 

abridges the right to challenge the validity of an arbitrary law or 

violating a fundamental right under that Article would not destroy or 

damage the basic structure. Equality is a multi-coloured concept 

incapable of a single definition as is also the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g). The principle of equality is a delicate, vulnerable and 

supremely precious concept for our society. It is true that it has 

embraced a critical and essential component of constitutional identity. The larger principles of equality as stated in Article 14 , 15 and 16 may be understood as an element of the "basic structure" of the 

Constitution and may not be subject to amendment, although, these 

provisions, intended to configure these rights in a particular way, may 

be changed within the constraints of the broader principle. The 

variability of changing conditions may necessitate the modifications in 


the structure and design of these rights, but the transient characters 

of formal arrangements must reflect the larger purpose and principles 

that are the continuous and unalterable thread of constitutional 

identity. It is not the introduction of significant and far-reaching 

change that is objectionable, rather it is the content of this change in 

so far as it implicates the question of constitutional identity. 94. The observations made by Mathew, J in Smt. Indra Gandhi Vs. 

Raj Narain39 are significant in this regard: It does not consist of any abstract ideals to be found outside the 

provisions of the Constitution. The Preamble no doubt enumerates 

great concepts embodying the ideological aspirations of the people 

but these concepts are particularised and their essential features 

delineated in the various provisions of the Constitution. It is these 

specific provisions in the body of the Constitution which determine 

the type of democracy which the founders of that instrument 

established; the quality and nature of justice, political, social and 

economic which they aimed to realize, the content of liberty of 

thought and expression which they entrenched in that document and 

the scope of equality of status and of opportunity which they 

enshrined in it. These specific provisions enacted in the Constitution 

alone can determine the basic structure of the Constitution. These 

specific provisions, either separately or in combination, determine the 

content of the great concepts set out in the Preamble. It is 

impossible to spin out any concrete concept of basic structure out of 

the gossamer concepts set out in the Preamble. The specific 

provisions of the Constitution are the stuff from which the basic 

39 (1976) 2 SCR 347 : (AIR 1975 SC 2299)


structure has to be woven". 95. If any Constitutional amendment is made which moderately 

abridges or alters the equality principle or the principles under Article 

19(1)(g) , it cannot be said that it violates the basic structure of the 

Constitution. If such a principle is accepted, our Constitution would 

not be able to adapt itself to the changing conditions of a dynamic 

human society. Therefore, the plea raised by the Petitioners' that the 

present Constitutional Ninety-Third Amendment Act, 2005 alters the 

basic structure of the constitution is of no force. Moreover, the 

interpretation of the Constitution shall not be in a narrow pedantic 

way. The observations made by the Constitution Bench in Nagaraj's 

case (supra) at page 240 are relevant: 96. It has been held in many decisions that when a constitutional 

provision is interpreted, the cardinal rule is to look to the Preamble to 

the Constitution as the guiding star and the Directive Principles of 

State Policy as the `Book of Interpretation'. The Preamble embodies 

the hopes and aspirations of the people and Directive Principles set 

out the proximate grounds in the governance of this country. 97. Therefore, we hold that the Ninety-Third Amendment to the 

Constitution does not violate the "basic structure" of the Constitution 

so far as it relates to aided educational institutions. Question whether 

reservation could be made for SCs, STs or SEBCs in private unaided 

educational institutions on the basis of the Ninety-Third Constitutional 

Amendment; or whether reservation could be given in such 

institutions; or whether any such legislation would be violative of Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 of the Constitution; or whether the 

Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment which enables the State 

Legislatures or Parliament to make such legislation - are all questions 

to be decided in a properly constituted lis between the affected 

parties and others who support such legislation. 2. Whether Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually contradictory, 

h
 ence Article 15(5) is to be held u
 ltra vires ? 98. The next contention raised by the petitioner's Counsel is that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually exclusive and contradictory. The 

Counsel for the petitioner, particularly the petitioner in Writ Petition 

(C) No. 598 of 2006, submitted that Article 15(4) was a provision and 

a source of legislative power for the purpose of making reservation 

for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as well as 

for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs) of citizens 

in aided minority educational institutions. And Article 15(4) was 

inserted after the decision of this Court in Champakam Dorairajan (supra) and Article 15(5) provides for reservation of seats for SCs, 

STs and SEBCs in aided or unaided educational institutions but 

expressly excludes all such reservation being made in minority 

educational institutions covered by Article 30(1) of the Constitution. This, according to the Petitioner's learned Counsel, will lead to a 

situation where the State would not be in a position to give 

reservation to SCs, STs and SEBCs even in aided minority 

institutions which have got protection under Article 30(1) of the 


Constitution. It is argued that in view of the express provision 

contained in Article 15(5) , the State would no more be able to give 

the reservation and this according to the petitioner's Counsel would 

result in annulling the endeavour of the founding fathers and the 

various provisions for neutralizing the exclusion of SCs & STs from 

the mainstream of society and development for centuries. 99. It is argued by petitioners' learned Counsel that Article 15(4) and 15(5) both commence with an exclusionary clause excluding the 

operation of the rest of the Article 15 , and hence would result in a 

conflict to the extent of inconsistency. According to the petitioners', Article 15(5) is a special provision relating to educational institutions 

and being a later amendment, it would prevail over Article 15(4) , thus 

in substance and effect resulting in an amendment of Article 15(4) of 

the Constitution. According to the petitioner's Counsel, "nothing in 

this Article" in Article 15(5) would include Article 15(4) also and in 

view of this inconsistent provision, Article 15(5) has to be held to be 

inconsistent with 15(4) and thus non-operative. 100. Both Article 15(4) and 15(5) are enabling provisions. Article 


15(4) was introduced when the "Communal G.O." in the State of 

Madras was struck down by this Court in Champakam Dorairajan 's 

case (supra). In Unni Krishnan (supra), this Court held that Article 

19(1)(g) is not attracted for establishing and running educational 

institutions. However, in T.M.A. Pai Foundation case, (supra), it 

was held that the right to establish and running educational 

institutions is an occupation within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g). The scope of the decision in T.M.A. Pai Foundation 's case was later 

explained in P.A. Inamdar 's case, (supra). It was held that as 

regards unaided institutions, the State has no control and such 

institutions are free to admit students of their own choice. The said 

decision necessitated the enactment of the Constitution Ninety-Third 

Amendment Act, 2005 . Thus, both Article 15(4) and 15(5) operate in 

different areas. The "nothing in this Article" [mentioned at the 

beginning of Article 15(5)] would only mean that the nothing in this 

Article which prohibit the State on grounds which are mentioned in Article 15(1) alone be given importance. Article 15(5) does not 

exclude 15(4) of the Constitution. It is a well settled principle of 

constitutional interpretation that while interpreting the provisions of 

Constitution, effect shall be given to all the provisions of the 


Constitution and no provision shall be interpreted in a manner as to 

make any other provision in the Constitution inoperative or otiose. If 

the intention of the Parliament was to exclude Article 15(4) , they 

could have very well deleted Article 15(4) of the Constitution. Minority institutions are also entitled to the exercise of fundamental 

rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, whether they be 

aided or unaided. But in the case of Article 15(5) , the minority 

educational institutions, whether aided or unaided, are excluded from 

the purview of Article 15(5) of the Constitution. Both, being enabling 

provisions, would operate in their own field and the validity of any 

legislation made on the basis of Article 15(4) or 15(5) have to be 

examined on the basis of provisions contained in such legislation or 

the special provision that may be made under Article 15(4) or 15(5). It may also be noticed that no educational institutions or any 

aggrieved party have come before us challenging the constitutional 

amendment on these grounds. The challenge is made by petitioners 

objecting to the reservations made under Act 5 of 2007. Therefore, 

the plea that Article 15(4) and 15(5) are mutually contradictory and, 

therefore, Article 15(5) is not constitutionally valid cannot be 

accepted. As has been held in N.M. Thomas case (supra) and Indra 


Sawhney's case (supra), Article 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions 

to Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) but independent enabling provision. Article 15(5) also to be taken as an enabling provision to carry out 

certain constitutional mandate and thus it is constitutionally valid and 

the contentions raised on these grounds are rejected. 3. Whether exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is violative of Article 14 of Constitution? 101. Another contention raised by the petitioner's Counsel is that the 

exclusion of minority institutions under Article 15(5) itself is violative 

of Article 14 of the Constitution. It was contended that the exclusion 

by itself is not severable from the rest of the provision. This plea also 

is not tenable because the minority institutions have been given a 

separate treatment in view of Article 30 of Constitution. Such 

classification has been held to be in accordance with the provisions 

of the Constitution. The exemption of minority educational institutions 

has been allowed to conform Article 15(5) with the mandate of Article 

30 of the Constitution. Moreover, both Article 15(4) and Article 15(5) are operative and the plea of non-severability is not applicable. 102. Learned Senior Counsel Dr. Rajeev Dhavan and learned 

Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain appearing for the petitioners 

contended that the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment would 

violate the equality principles enshrined in Articles 14 , 19 and 21 and 

thereby the "Golden Triangle" of these three Articles could be 

seriously violated. The learned counsel also contended that 

exclusion of minorities from the operation of Article 15(5) is also 

violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. We do not find much force 

in this contention. It has been held that Article 15(4) and Article 16(4) are not exceptions to Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) respectively. It 

may also be noted that if at all there is any violation of Article 14 or 

any other equality principle, the affected educational institution should 

have approached this Court to vindicate their rights. No such 

petition has been filed before this Court. Therefore, we hold that the 

exclusion of minority educational institutions from Article 15(5) is not 

violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as the minority educational 

institutions, by themselves, are a separate class and their rights are 

protected by other constitutional provisions. 4. Whether the Constitutional Amendment followed the 


procedure prescribed under Article 368 of the Constitution? 103. Another contention raised by the petitioner's Counsel is that the 

Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment is invalid as it violates the 

proviso to Article 368 of the Constitution. According to the 

petitioner's Counsel, the procedure prescribed under the proviso to Article 368 was not followed in the case of the Ninety-Third 

Amendment. According to the petitioner's Counsel, Article 15(5) of 

the Constitution interferes with the executive power of the States as it 

impliedly takes away the power of the State Government under Article 162 of the Constitution. 104. This contention of the petitioner's Counsel has no force. The 

powers of the Parliament and the State legislatures to legislate are 

provided for under Article 245-255 of the Constitution. Under the 

proviso to Article 162 , any matter with respect to which the legislature 

of the State and the Parliament have power to make laws, the 

executive power of the State shall be subject to and limited by the 

executive power expressly conferred by the Constitution or by any 

law made by Parliament upon the Union authorities thereof. The 


Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment does not expressly or 

impliedly take away any such power conferred by Article 162. It may 

also be noticed that by virtue of the 42nd Amendment to the 

Constitution, "education" which was previously in Entry No. 11 in List 

II was deleted and inserted in List III as Entry No. 25 as the field of 

legislation in List III. Article 245 will operate and by reasons of 

proviso to Article 162 , the executive power of the State be subject to, 

limited by, the executive power expressly conferred by the 

Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the Union 

authorities thereof. Subject to restrictions imposed under the 

Constitution, it has been in existence. Such power of the State is not 

limited or curtailed by the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment as 

it does not interfere with the power of the State under Article 162. The Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment does not fall within the 

scope of proviso to Article 368. Therefore, the plea raised by the 

petitioner's Counsel that the Ninety-Third Constitutional Amendment 

did not follow the prescribed procedure of Article 368 is not correct 

and the plea is only to be rejected. 5. Whether the Act 5 of 2007 is constitutionally invalid in view 


of definition of "Backward Class" and whether the identification 

of such "Backward Class" based on "caste" is constitutionally 

valid? 105. The next important plea raised by the petitioner's Counsel is 

regarding the validity of the Act 5 of 2007. The several contentions 

have been raised regarding the validity of the Act 5 of 2007. The first 

contention which was raised by the petitioner's Counsel that this Act 

is ex-facie unconstitutional and is a suspect legislation and violative 

of the Article 14 , 15 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The main attack 

against the Act was that the socially and educationally backward 

classes of citizens were not properly identified and the delegation of 

power to identify the socially and educationally backward classes of 

citizens to the Central Government itself is illegal and the delegation 

of such powers by itself without laying down any guidelines is 

arbitrarily illegal. Elaborate arguments were made by the petitioner's 

Counsel and the first and foremost contention was that "caste" is the 

sole basis on which the socially and educationally backward classes 

of citizens were determined. And this, according to the petitioner's 

Counsel, is illegal. Reference was made to a series of decisions of 


this Court on this issue. 106. There is a long jurisprudential history as to whether caste can 

play any role in determining the socially and educationally backward 

classes of citizens. In Indra Sawhney 's case (supra), which is a 

Nine Judge Bench decision, it was held that the "caste" could be a 

beginning point and a determinative factor in identifying the socially 

and educationally backward classes of citizens. But nevertheless, a 

brief survey of various decisions on this question would give a history 

of the jurisprudential development on this subject. 107. Reference to the earlier decisions is necessary because 

serious doubt has been raised as to whether "caste" could be the 

basis for recognizing backwardness. Some of the earlier decisions 

have stated that caste should not be a basis for recognizing 

backwardness and gradually there was a shift in the views and 

finally, in I ndra Sawhney' s
 case (supra), it was held that caste could 

be the starting point for determining the socially and educationally 

backward classes of citizen.. 108. In Champakam Dorairajan (supra), this Court struck 

down the classification made in the Communal G.O. of the then State 

of Madras. The G.O. was founded on the basis of religion and castes 

and was struck down on the ground that it is opposed to the 

Constitution and is in violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed 

to the citizens. The court held that Article 46 cannot override the 

provisions of Article 29 (2) because of the Directive Principles of 

State Policy which were then taken subsidiary to fundamental rights. This decision led to the first constitutional amendment by which Article 15(4) was added to the Constitution. 109. The next important case is M.R. Balaji & Ors. Vs. 

State of Mysore (supra). In this case, the State of Mysore issued 

an order that all the communities except the Brahmin community 

would fall within the definition of socially and educationally backward 

class and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and 75% of the 

seats in educational institutions were reserved for them. It was 

observed that though caste in relation to Hindus may be a relevant 

factor to consider while determining social backwardness of groups 

or classes of citizens, it cannot be made the sole or dominant test. It 


was held that the classes of citizens who are deplorably poor 

automatically become socially backward. Moreover, the occupation 

of citizens and the place of their habitation also result in social 

backwardness. The problem of determining who are socially 

backward classes is undoubtedly very complex, but the classification 

of socially backward citizens on the basis of their caste alone is not 

permissible under Article 15 (4). Learned Senior Counsel Shri Harish 

Salve drew our attention to the various passages in the judgment. Gajendragadkar, J. speaking for the majority of the Judges, said :- 110. The court drew a clear distinction between `caste' and 

`class' and tried to make an attempt to find a new basis for 

ascertaining social and educational backwardness in place of caste 

and in this decision a majority of Judges held that in a broad way, a 

special provision of reservation should be less than 50%; how much 


less than 50% would depend upon the relevant and prevailing 

circumstances in each case. 111. In R. Chitralekha 's case (supra), the Government of 

Mysore, by an order defining backward classes directed that 30% of 

the seats in professional and technical colleges and institutions shall 

be reserved for them and 18% to the SCs and STs. It was laid down 

that classification of socially and educationally backward classes 

should be made on the basis of economic condition and occupation. Suba Rao, J. (as he then was), speaking for the majority, held that a 

classification of backward classes based on economic conditions and 

occupations is not bad in law and does not offend Article 15 (4). The 

caste of a group of citizens may be a relevant circumstance in 

ascertaining their social backwardness and though it is a relevant 

factor to determine social backwardness of a class, it cannot be the 

sole or dominant test in that behalf. If, in a given situation, caste is 

excluded in ascertaining a class within the meaning of Article 15 (4) , 

it does not vitiate the classification if it satisfies other tests. The Court 

observed that various provisions of the Constitution which 

recognized the factual existence of backwardness in the country 


and which make a sincere attempt to promote the welfare of the 

weaker sections thereof should be construed to effectuate that policy 

and not to give weightage to progressive sections of the society 

under the false colour of caste to which they happen to belong. The 

Court held that under no circumstance a `class' can be equated to a 

`caste' though the caste of an individual or group of individuals may 

be a relevant factor in putting him in a particular class. 112. Minor P. Rajendran Vs. State of Madras & Ors.40 is 

another Constitution Bench decision wherein the order of the State 

Government providing reservation of seats for various categories of 

candidates namely Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and 

SEBCs was challenged on various grounds. The main challenge was 

that the reservation was based entirely on consideration of caste and 

therefore it violates Article 15. Justice Wanchoo, held that :- 113. It may be noticed that the list prepared by the State showed 

certain castes, and members of those castes according to the State 

were really classes of socially and educationally backward citizens. It was observed in that case that the petitioners therein did not make 

any attempt to show that any caste mentioned in the list of 

educationally and socially backward classes of citizens was not 

educationally and socially backward and the list based on caste was 

upheld by the Constitution Bench and held to be not violative of Article 15(1). 114. In T
 riloki Nath Tiku Vs. State of J & K (I) 41
 , 50% of the 

gazetted posts were to be filled up by promotion in favour of the 

Muslims of Jammu & Kashmir. The Court held that inadequate 

representation in State services would not be decisive for 

determining the backwardness of a section. The Court accordingly 

41 (1967) 2 SCR 265


gave directions for collecting further material relevant to the subject. And in a subsequent decision, Triloki Nath(II ) (supra), the court 

observed that the expression "backward class" is not used as 

synonymous with "backward caste". 115. In Minor A. Peerikaruppan Vs. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors . (supra), this Court made reference to the earlier decisions especially 

in M.R. Balaji case ( supra) and R. Chitralekha case (supra). Hegde, 

J., at paragraph 29, observed :- 116. The learned Counsel for the petitioners also made 

reference to State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. Vs. Pradip Tandon & 


Ors.42 wherein Chief Justice Ray observed at paragraph 14 :- 117. Another important decision is that of State of Kerala & 

Anr. Vs N.M. Thomas & Ors. (supra), wherein the constitutional 

validity of Rule 13-AA of the Kerala State & Subordinate Services 

Rules was under challenge. The Rule gave exemption of 2 years to 

members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in 

services, from passing the departmental test. The High Court of 

Kerala struck down the Rule and in an appeal by the State the 

question of reservation was elaborately considered. Mathew, J. in his 

concurring judgment, held that in order to give equality of opportunity 

for employment to the members of Scheduled Castes and 

Scheduled Tribes, it is necessary to take note of their social, 

educational and economic backwardness. Not only is the Directive 

Principle embodied in Article 46 binding on the law-makers as 

ordinarily understood, but it should equally inform and illuminate the 

approach of the court when it makes a decision, as the court is also 

42 (1975) 1 SCC 267


a "State" within the meaning of Article 12 and makes law even 

though interstitially. Existence of equality depends not merely on 

the absence of disabilities but on the presence of disabilities. To 

achieve it, differential treatment of persons who are unequal is 

permissible. This is what is styled as compensatory discrimination or 

affirmative action. 118. In K.C. Vasanth Kumar Vs. State of Karnataka (supra) the question of identifying socially and educationally 

backward class came up for consideration. Desai, J., elaborately 

considered this question in paragraph 20 and observed :- 119. Chinnappa Reddy, J., also dealt with the question elaborately 

and observed :- 120. Reference was also made to other decisions, namely, State of 

Andhra Pradesh & Anr. Vs. P. Sagar43 and T. Devadasan Vs. 

The Union of India & Anr.44 . The earlier decisions took the view that 

caste shall not be a basis for determining the socially and 

43 (1968) 3 SCR 595

44 (1964) 4 SCR 680


educationally backward class of citizens. But from the later 

decisions, we find a slight shift in the approach of the court. If the 

classification of SEBCs is done exclusively on the basis of caste, it 

would fly in the face of Article 15(1) of the Constitution as it expressly 

prohibits any discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, 

sex, place of birth or any of them. After a careful examination of the 

various previous decisions of this Court, in Indra Sawhney (supra), 

while examining the validity of the `Backward Class List' prepared by 

the Mandal Commisson, Jeevan Reddy. J., speaking for the majority, 

held as under:- 121. In that decision it was further held that "Backward Class" in Article 16(4) cannot be read as "Backward Caste". And under Article 

340 of the Constitution, the President may by order appoint a 

Commission consisting of such persons as he thinks fit to investigate 

the conditions of socially and educationally backward classes of 

citizens within the territory of India and the difficulties under which 

they labour and to make recommendations as to the steps that 


should be taken by the Union or any State to remove the difficulties 

and to improve their condition. The object of this provision is to 

empower the President to appoint a Commission to ascertain the 

difficulties and problems of socially and educationally backward 

classes of citizens. And in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra), the 

majority held that the ideal and wise method would be to mark out 

various occupations which on the lower level in many cases amongst 

Hindus would be their caste itself and find out their social 

acceptability and educational standard, weigh them in the balance of 

economic conditions and, the result would be backward class of 

citizens needing a genuine protective umbrella. And after having 

adopted occupation as the starting point, the next point should be to 

ascertain their social acceptability. A person carrying on scavenging 

becomes an untouchable whereas others who were as law in the 

social strata as untouchables became depressed. The Court has 

cautioned that the backwardness should be traditional. Mere 

educational or social backwardness would not have been sufficient 

as it would enlarge the field thus frustrating the very purpose of the 

constitutional goal. It was pointed out that after applying these tests, 

the economic criteria or the means-test should be applied since 


poverty is the prime cause of all backwardness as it generates social 

and educational backwardness. 122. The learned Counsel for the petitioner contended that 

caste cannot be used even as one of the criteria for identifying the 

SEBCs as many persons have shifted their traditional occupations 

and have become doctors, engineers and lawyers. But these are 

only a few cases and even such persons continue to suffer social 

segregation based on caste. In P
 radip Tandon 's
 case (supra) it 

was held at para 17 that: 123. The above statement is not fully correct. Caste plays an 

important role in determining the backwardness of the individual. In 

society, social status and standing depend upon the nature of the 

occupation followed. In paragraph 779 of Indra Sawhney 's case, it 

is stated: 124. "Caste" is often used interchangeably with "class" and can 

be called as the basic unit in social stratification. The most 

characteristic thing about a caste group is its autonomy in caste 

related matters. One of the universal codes enforced by all castes is 

the requirement of endogamy. Other rules have to do with the 

regulations pertaining to religious purity or cleanliness. Sometimes it 

restricts occupational choices as well. It is not necessary that these 

rules be enforced in particular classes as well, and as such a "class" may be distinguished from the broader realm of "caste" on these 

grounds. Castes were often rated, on a purity scale, and not on a 

social scale. 125. The observations made by Venkataramaiah J. in K.C. 

Vasanth Kumar case are relevant in this regard : 126. Rivers, the leading anthropologist, criticizes the use of 

the terms "caste" and "class" as synonyms45. However, many others, 

45 W.H.R. Rivers, Social Organization (New York, 1924) p. 143


such as Lowie46 and Kimball Young47, use these terms as though 

they were identical. 127. Very common is the use of the word caste to indicate 

hereditary status. Cecil Clare North48, the noted sociologist, 

accepts the point of view that degrees of rigidity mark the difference 

between class and caste systems. His definition reads: 128. North concludes by saying that the term "caste" applies to 

classes that have become fixed, and that all such classes tend to 

become castes. 129. MacIver49, another leading authority in the field of social 

class theory, also identifies caste with hereditary status. He attempts 

to tie his interpretation with the situation in India, a procedure not 

46 Robert H. Lowie, The Origin of the State (New York, 1927) p. 21; Lowie, An Introduction to Cultural 

 Anthropology (New York, 1940) p. 268

47 Kimball Young, An Introductory Sociology (New York, 1924) 

48 Cecil Clare North, Social Differentiation (Chapel Hill, 1926) p. 254

49 R.N. MacIver, Society: A textbook of Sociology (New York 1937) p. 171. 9


often followed by the other sociologists. He writes thus, 

"Caste as unchangeable status: -- The feudal order approximated to 

a caste system. When status is wholly predetermined, so that men 

are born to their lot in life without hope of changing it, then class 

takes the extreme form of caste. This is the situation in Hindu 

society. `Every Hindu necessarily belongs to the caste of his parents, 

and in that caste he inevitably remains. No accumulation of wealth 

and no exercise of talents can alter his caste status; and marriage 

outside his caste is prohibited or severely discouraged.' Caste is a 

complete barrier to the mobility of class." 130. Therefore, a class always enjoys certain privileges or at 

least certain advantages over others in society. When it is more or 

less rigorously closed, or enjoys hereditary privileges, it is called a 

"caste". 131. However, there are other sociologists who are of the 

opinion that the Caste system has a hereditary function also. Charles Horton Cooley50 opines that: 50 Charles Horton Cooley, Social Organization (New York, 1909) p. 215 132. Therefore, according to the early sociological theories, the 

term "caste" has been used to mean "class", hereditary or rigid 

status, and hereditary occupation. 133. The M
 ysore C
 ensus of 1901 51 is quoted, in this 

connection, as follows: ...Excepting the Brahmin at one end and the admittedly degraded 

castes like the Holeyas at the other, the members of a large 

proportion of the immediate castes think or profess to think that their 

caste is better than their neighbours, and should be ranked 

accordingly." 134. On the other hand, it is possible that within a caste group 

there is a marked inequality of status, opportunity, or social standing - which then defines the "class" within that particular "caste" system. For example, all the Brahmins are not engaged in highly respectable 

51 G.S. Ghurye, Caste and Race in India (Bombay, 1979) p. 6, Quoting from Mysore Census, 1901, p. 400


employment, nor are all very wealthy. It may even be that some 

Brahmins may be servants of members of a lower caste, or it may 

also be so that the personal servant of a rich Brahmin may be a poor 

Brahmin. 135. Hence, there is every reason to believe that within a 

single caste group there are some classes or groups of people to 

whom good fortune or perseverance has brought more dignity, social 

influence and social esteem than it has to others. 136. In India, caste, in a socio-organizational manner would 

mean that it is not characterized merely by the physical or 

occupational characteristics of the individuals who make it up; rather, 

it is characterized by its codes and its close-knit social controls. In 

the case of classes, however, there may not exist such close-knit unit 

social controls, and there may exist great disparity in occupational 

characteristics. 137. A social class is therefore a homogeneous unit, from the 

point of view of status and mutual recognition; whereas a caste is a 


homogeneous unit from the point of view of common ancestry, 

religious rites and strict organizational control. Thus the manner in 

which the caste is closed both in the organizational and biological 

sense causes it to differ from social class. Moreover, its emphasis 

upon ritual and regulations pertaining to cleanliness and purity differs 

radically from the secular nature and informality of social class rules. In a social class, the exclusiveness would be based primarily on 

status. Social classes divide homogeneous populations into layers of 

prestige and esteem, and the members of each layer are able to 

circulate freely with it. 138. In a caste, however, the social distance between members is 

due to the fact that they belong to entirely different organizations. It 

may be said, therefore, that a caste is a horizontal division and a 

class, a vertical division. 139. The Solicitor General, Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, pointed out that for 

the purpose of reservation under Article 16(4) of the Constitution, the 

Central List has been in operation for the past 14 years and not a 

single person has challenged any inclusion in the Central List as void 


or illegal. 140. It was pointed out that the National Commission for the 

Backward Classes and the State Commission for Backward Classes 

have prepared a list based on elaborate guidelines and these 

guidelines have been framed after studying the criteria/indicators 

framed by the Mandal Commission and the Commissions set up in 

the past by different State Governments. Various Commissions held 

public hearings at various places and the National Commission held 

236 public hearings before it finalized the list. It is also pointed out 

that during the period of its functioning, the National Commission had 

recommended 297 requests for inclusion and at the same time 

rejected 288 requests for inclusion of the main castes. It is further 

pointed out that the Commission took into consideration detailed data 

with regard to social, educational and economic criteria. The 

Commission has also looked into whether there has been any 

improvement or deterioration in the condition of the caste or 

community being considered for inclusion during the past twenty 

years. 141. It is pointed out that an elaborate questionnaire was prepared 

by the Commission and the answers in this questionnaire were 

considered in detail for inclusion/rejection in the list. It is clear that 

the lists of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens are 

being prepared not solely on the basis of the caste and if caste and 

other considerations are taken into account for determining 

backwardness, it cannot be said that it would be violative of Article 

15(1) of the Constitution. 142. We hold that the determination of SEBCs is done not solely 

based on caste and hence, the identification of SEBCs is not violative 

of Article 15(1) of the Constitution. 6. Whether Creamy Layer is to be excluded from SEBCs? 143. The SEBCs have been identified by applying various criteria. Though for the purpose of convenience, the list is based on caste, it 

cannot be said that `Backward Class' has been identified solely on 

the basis of caste. All the castes which suffered the social and 

educational backwardness have been included in the list. Therefore, 

it is not violative of Article 15(1). The only possible objection that 


could be agitated is that in many of the castes included in this list, 

there may be an affluent section (Creamy Layer) which cannot be 

included in the list of SEBCs. 144. When socially and educationally backward classes are 

determined by giving importance to caste, it shall not be forgotten 

that a segment of that caste is economically advanced and they do 

not require the protection of reservation. It was argued on behalf of 

the petitioners that the principle of `Creamy Layer' should be strictly 

applied to SEBCs while giving affirmative action and the principles of 

exclusion of `Creamy Layer' applied in Indra Sawhney 's case should 

be equally applied to any of the legislations that may be passed as 

per Article 15(5) of the Constitution. The Counsel for the petitioners 

submitted that SEBCs have been defined under section 2 (g) of the 

Act and the Central Government has been delegated with the power 

to determine Other Backward Classes. The Counsel for the 

petitioners have pointed out that the definition given in section 2(g) of 

the Act should be judicially interpreted. That the backward class so 

stated therein should mean to exclude the `Creamy Layer'. The 

learned Senior Counsel appearing for Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) 

stated that exclusion of `Creamy Layer' shall not apply for reservation 


in educational institutions. He pointed out that in case the `creamy 

layer' is excluded, the other members of the backward class 

community would not be in a position to avail the benefit of 

reservation and the fee structure in many of these centrally 

administered institutions is exorbitantly high and the ordinary citizen 

would not be in a position to afford the payment of fees and thus the 

very purpose of the reservation would be frustrated. 145. According to the learned Counsel for the respondents, the 

creamy layer elimination will only perpetuate caste inequalities. It 

would enable the advanced castes to eliminate any challenge or 

competition to their leadership in the professions and services and 

that they will gain by eliminating all possible beneficiaries of 

reservation in the name of creamy layer especially in the institutions 

of higher learning. It was argued that the analogy of Creamy Layer 

applied in reservations to jobs cannot be applied in reservations to 

educational institutions of higher learning. The position of a student 

getting admission to an institution of higher learning is totally different 

and can never be compared to that of backward class person to get a 

job by virtue of reservation. The study in any educational institution 


of higher learning is very expensive and the non-creamy layer 

backward class parent cannot afford his son or his daughter incurring 

such a huge expenditure. Eliminating them from the Creamy Layer 

will frustrate the very object of providing reservation. Therefore, it is 

wholly impracticable and highly counter productive to import the 

policy of Creamy Layer for reservation in these institutions. And 

according to the learned Counsel there is a difference between 

services and education and that under the purview of Act 5 of 2007, 

around 3 lakh seats would be filled up every year. Whereas the jobs 

are limited and they will not become vacant every year. 146. The learned Counsel pointed out that grouping of all castes 

together may enable a less backward caste among the backward 

classes to corner more seats than it deserves. It is also possible that 

more backward classes cannot afford to compete with the less 

backward classes. The only way to solve the said problem is by 

categorization of Backward Classes and sub classifying them so as 

to ensure that under each category only similarly circumstanced 

castes are grouped together. The categorization of backward class 

has successfully worked in State of Tamil Nadu where most 


backward class is provided 20% reservation and the most backward 

castes and denotified tribes are grouped together and the backward 

classes are provided 30% reservation. In the State of Karnataka, 

backward classes are divided into 5 categories and separate 

reservations have been provided. And in the State of Andhra 

Pradesh, Backward Classes have been divided into 4 divisions and 

separate percentage of reservation has been provided. 147. As noticed earlier, determination of backward class cannot be 

exclusively based on caste. Poverty, social backwardness, economic 

backwardness, all are criteria for determination of backwardness. It 

has been noticed in Indra Sawhney 's case that among the backward 

class, a section of the backward class is a member of the affluent 

section of society. They do not deserve any sort of reservation for 

further progress in life. They are socially and educationally advanced 

enough to compete for the general seats along with other candidates. 148. In Indra Sawhney 's case (supra) Jeevan Reddy, J., has 

observed : (p. 724) 149. It is to be understood that "creamy layer" principle is 

introduced merely to exclude a section of a particular caste on the 

ground that they are economically advanced or educationally forward. They are excluded because unless this segment of caste is excluded 

from that caste group, there cannot be proper identification of the 

backward class. If the "Creamy Layer" principle is not applied, it 

could easily be said that all the castes that have been included 

among the socially and educationally backward classes have been 

included exclusively on the basis of caste. Identification of SEBC for 

the purpose of either Article 15(4) , 15(5) or 16(4) solely on the basis 

of caste is expressly prohibited by various decisions of this Court and 

it is also against Article 15(1) and Article 16(1) of the Constitution. To 


fulfil the conditions and to find out truly what is socially and 

educationally backward class, the exclusion of "creamy layer" is 

essential. 150. It may be noted that the "creamy layer" principle is applied not 

as a general principle of reservation. It is applied for the purpose of 

identifying the socially and educationally backward class. One of the 

main criteria for determining the SEBC is poverty. If that be so, the 

principle of exclusion of "creamy layer" is necessary. Moreover, the 

majority in Indra Sawhney 's case upheld the exclusion of "creamy 

layer" for the purpose of reservation in Article 16(4). Therefore, we 

are bound the larger Bench decision of this Court in Indra 

Sawhney 's case, and it cannot be said that the "creamy layer" 151. Sawant, J. also made observation in Indra Sawhney 's case to 

ensure removal of `creamy layer'. He observed:- 152. All these reasonings are equally applicable to the 

reservation or any special action contemplated under Article 15(5). Therefore, we are unable to agree with the contention raised by the 

respondent's learned Counsel that if `creamy layer' is excluded, there 

may be practically no representation for a particular backward class 


in educational institutions because the remaining members, namely, 

the non-creamy layer, may not have risen to the level or standard 

necessary to qualify to get admission even within the reserved quota. If the creamy layer is not excluded, the identification of SEBC will not 

be complete and any SEBC without the exclusion of `creamy layer' 

may not be in accordance with Article 15(1) of the Constitution. 7. What should be the para-meters for determining the "creamy 

layer" group ? 153. After the decision in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra), the 

Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and 

Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) issued an Office 

Memorandum dated 08.09.1993 providing for 27% reservation for 

Other Backward Classes. The Memorandum reads as follows :- 2. Consequent to the consideration of the Expert Committee's 

recommendations this Department's Office Memorandum No. 

36012/31/90-Estt. (SCT), dated 13.8.1990 referred to in para (1) 

above is hereby modified to provide as follows : Detailed instructions relating to the procedure to be followed for 

enforcing reservation will be issued separately. (b) * * * (c) (i) The aforesaid reservation shall not apply to persons/sections 

mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule to this office memorandum. (ii) The rule of exclusion will not apply to persons working as artisans 

or engaged in hereditary occupations, callings. A list of such 

occupations, callings will be issued separately by the Ministry of 

Welfare. India Central and (b) parents, either of whom is a 

 State Services (Direct Class I officer; Recruits) (c.) parents, both of whom are Class 

 I Officers, but one of them dies or 

 suffers permanent incapacitation; (d) parents, either of whom is a 

 Class I officer and such parent dies 

 or suffers permanent incapacitation 

 and before such death or such 

 incapacitation has had the benefit of 

 employment in any International 

 Organisation like UN, IMF, World 

 Bank, etc. for a period of not less 

 than 5 years; (e) parents, both of whom are Class 

 I officers die or suffer permanent 

 incapacitation and before such 

 death or such incapacitation of the 

 both, either of them has had the 

 benefit of employment in any 

 International Organisation like UN, 

 IMF, World Bank, etc. for a period of 

 not less than 5 years. Provided that the rule of exclusion 

 shall not apply in the following cases 

 : (a) Son(s) and 

 daughter(s) of parents either of 

 whom or both of whom are class I 

 officers and such parent(s) dies/die 

 or suffer permanent incapacitation; (b) A lady belonging 

 to OBC category has got married to 

 a Class I officer, and may herself 

 like to apply for a job. B. Group B/Class II Son(s) and daughter(s) of

 officers of the Central (a) Parents both of whom are Class 

 and State Services II officers; (Direct Recruitment) (b) parents of whom only the 

 husband is a Class II officer and he 

 get into Class I at the age of 40 or 

 earlier; (c) parents, both of whom are Class 

 II officers and one of them dies or 

 suffers permanent incapacitation 

 and either one of them has had the 

 benefit of employment in any 

 International Organisation like UN, 

 IMF, World Bank etc. for a period of 

 not less than 5 years before such 

 death or permanent incapacitation; (d) parents of whom the husband is 

 a Class I officer (direct recruit or 

 pre-forty promoted) and the wife is a 

 Class II officer and the wife dies; or 

 suffers permanent incapacitation; and (e) parents, of whom the wife is a 

 Class I officer (direct recruit or pre- forty promoted) and the husband is 

 a Class II officer and the husband 

 dies or suffers permanent 


 incapacitation: Provided that the rule of exclusion 

 shall not apply in the following 

 cases: Son(s) and daughter(s) of (a) parents both of whom are Class 

 II officers and one of them dies or 

 suffers permanent incapacitation; (b) parents, both of whom are Class 

 II officers and both of them die or 

 suffer permanent incapacitation, 

 even though either of them has had 

 the benefit of employment in any 

 International Organisation like UN, 

 IMF, World Bank etc. for a period of 

 not less than 5 years before their 

 death or permanent incapacitation. C. Employees in Public The criteria enumerated in A and B 

 Sector Undertakings above in this category will apply 

 etc. mutatis mutandis to officers holding 

 equivalent or comparable posts in 

 PSUs, Banks, Insurance 

 Organisations, Universities, etc. and 

 also to equivalent or comparable 

 posts and positions under private 

 employment, pending the evaluation 

 of the posts on equivalent or 

 comparable basis in these 

 institutions, the criteria specified in 

 Category VI below will apply to the 

 officers in these institutions. III. ARMED FORCES Son(s) and daughter(s) of parents 

 INCLUDING either or both of whom is or are in 

 PARAMILITARY the rank of Colonel and above in the 


FORCES (Persons Army and to equivalent posts in the 

holding civil posts are Navy and the Air Force and the 

not included) Paramilitary Forces: ( N.M. Thomas (supra) p. 363, para 124) 

52 (supra) p. 733 158. In Nagaraj's case (supra) in paragraph 80, it is stated that while 

"applying the `creamy layer' test, this Court held that if roster-point 

promotees are given consequential seniority, it will violate the 

equality principle which is part of the basic structure of the 

Constitution and in which even Article 16(4-A) cannot be of any help 

to the reserved category candidates." This was with reference to the 

observations made in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra) and earlier in M.G. Badappanavar & Anr. Vs. State of Karnataka & Ors.53 ; Ajit 

Singh & Ors. (II) vs. State of Punjab & Ors.54 and Union of India 

& Ors. Vs. Virpal Singh Chauhan & Ors.55 . Virpal Singh 

Chauhan 's case (supra) dealt with reservation of railway employees 

wherein it is held that once the number of posts reserved for being 

filled by reserved category candidates in a cadre, category or grade 

(unit for application of rule of reservation) are filled by the operation of 

roster, the object of the rule of reservation should be deemed to have 

been achieved. Ajit Singh II's case (supra) dealt with consequential 

seniority on promotion and held that roster points fixed at Level 1 are 

not intended to determine any seniority at Level 1 between general 

candidates and the reserved candidates and the roster point merely 

53 (2001) 2 SCC 666

54 (1999) 7 SCC 209

55 (1995) 6 SCC 684


becomes operative whenever a vacancy reserved at Level 2 

becomes available. Thereby holding that if promotion is obtained by 

way of reservation, the consequential seniority will not be counted. M.G. Badappanavar 's case (supra) followed the cases of Ajit Singh 

II (supra) and Virpal Singh (supra). 159. In none of these decisions it is stated that the "creamy layer" 160. Moreover, the "creamy layer" principle is not yet applied as a 


principle of equality or as a general principle to apply for all 

affirmative actions. The observations made by Chinnappa Reddy, J. in K.C. Vasanth Kumar case are relevant in this regard. The 

learned Judge observed as under : 161. So far, this Court has not applied the "creamy layer" principle to 

the general principle of equality for the purpose of reservation. The 

"creamy layer" so far has been applied only to identify the backward 

class, as it required certain parameters to determine the backward 

classes. "Creamy layer" principle is one of the parameters to identify 


backward classes. Therefore, principally, the "creamy layer" principle 

cannot be applied to STs and SCs, as SCs and STs are separate 

classes by themselves. Ray, CJ., in an earlier decisions, stated that 

"Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are not a caste within the 

ordinary meaning of caste". And they are so identified by virtue of the 

Notification issued by the President of India under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution. The President may, after consultation with 

the Governor, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes 

or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which for the 

purpose of the Constitution shall be deemed to be Scheduled Castes 

of Scheduled Tribes. Once the Notification is issued, they are 

deemed to be the members of Scheduled Castes or Scheduled 

Tribes, whichever is applicable. In E.V. Chinnaiah (supra), 

concurring with the majority judgment, S.B. Sinha, J. said :- test as used in Indra Sawhney 's case (supra) which was specifically 

rejected in paragraph 96 of the E.V. Chinnaiah 's case (supra). It is 

observed :- 168. Whereas in India, Articles 14 and 18 are differently structured 

and contain express provisions for special provision for the 

advancement of SEBCs, STs and SCs. Moreover, in our Constitution 

there is a specific provision under the Directive Principles of State 

Policy in Part IV of the Constitution requiring the State to strive for 

justice - social, economic and political - and to minimize the 

inequalities of income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in 

status, facilities and opportunities ( Article 38 ). Earlier, there was a 

view that Articles 16(4) and 15(5) are exceptions to Article 16(1) and 15(1) respectively. This view was held in The General Manager 

Southern Railways Vs. Rangachari60 and M.R. Balaji Vs. State of 

Mysore61 . 169. In T. Devadasan62 (supra), Subba Rao J., gave a dissenting 

opinion wherein he held that Article 16(4) was not an exception to Article 16(1). He observed:- 170. In two other subsequent decisions, i.e. in Triloki Nath (I )63 

(supra) and T. Devadasan case (supra), it was held that article 15(4) and 16(4) are exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively. But 

a 7-Judge Bench in State of Kerala Vs. N.M. Thomas (supra) held 

that Article 15(4) and 16(4) are not exceptions to Article 15(1) and 16(1) respectively. Fazal Ali J., said : 171. This brought out a drastic change in the view of this Court. In K.C. Vasanth Kumar Vs. State of Karnataka64 (supra), 

63 (supra) at 104

64 (supra) at 800


Venkatramaiah J. observed: 172. The amendment to Article 15 by inserting Article 15(5) and the 

new Act (Act 5 of 2007) are to be viewed in the background of these 

constitutional provisions. It may also be recalled that the Preamble to 

the Constitution and the Directive Principles of State Policy give a 

positive mandate to the State and the State is obliged to remove 

inequalities and backwardness from society. While considering the 

constitutionality of a social justice legislation, it is worthwhile to note 

the objectives which have been incorporated by the Constitution 

makers in the Preamble of the Constitution and how they are sought 


to be secured by enacting fundamental rights in Part III and 

Directives Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution. The 

Fundamental Rights represent the civil and political rights and the 

Directive Principles embody social and economic rights. Together 

they are intended to carry out the objectives set out in the Preamble 

of the Constitution. Granville Austin, in his book65, states : 173. From the constitutional history of India, it can be seen that from 

the point of view of importance and significance, no distinction can be 

made between the two sets of rights, namely, Fundamental Rights 

which are made justiciable and the Directives Principles which are 

made non-justiciable. The Directive Principles of State Policy are 

made non-justiciable for the reason that the implementation of many 

of these rights would depend on the financial capability of the State. Non-justiciable clause was provided for the reason that an infant 

65 Granville Austin : The Indian Constitution : Corner-stone of a Nation, p. 52


State shall not be made accountable immediately for not fulfilling 

these obligations. Merely because the Directive Principles are non- justiciable by the judicial process does not mean that they are of 

subordinate importance. In Champakam Dorairajan 's case (supra), 

it was observed that "the Directive Principles have to conform to and 

run subsidiary to the Chapter of Fundamental Rights." But this view 

did not hold for a long time and was later changed in a series of 

subsequent decisions. (See : In Re. Kerala Education Bill, 195766; Minerava Mills (supra)) 174. In Minerva Mills67 (supra) Bhagwati, J observed : 175. Article 46 enjoins upon the State to promote with special care 

the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the 

people and to protect them from social injustice and all forms of 

exploitation whereas under the Constitution of the United States of 

America, we get an entirely different picture. Though equality was 

one of the solemn affirmations of the American Declaration of 


Independence, slavery continued unabatedly and it was, to some 

extent, legally recognized. In Dred Scott Vs. Saunders68 wherein 

Chief Justice Taney held that [African-Americans] were not entitled to 

get citizenship. He was of the view that `once a slave always a 

slave', and one slave never would become the citizen of America. This view held by the Chief Justice Taney continued for a long time 

and after the Civil War, the 14th amendment was enacted in 1868 and 

this amendment gave (equal protection of laws to all persons). In 

Plassy Vs. Ferguson69 which involved a challenge to a Louisiana 

statute that provided for equal but separate accommodations for 

black and white passengers in trains, the United States Supreme 

Court was of the view that racial segregation was a reasonable 

exercise of State police power for the promotion of the public good 

and upheld the law. Several affirmative actions were challenged and 

the landmark decision of Brown Vs. Board of Education70 was 

delivered in 1954. In many cases, the strict scrutiny doctrine was 

being applied to all laws of racial classifications. The learned 

Counsel for the petitioner made reference to Gratz Vs. Bollinger 

(supra) and some of the earlier decisions of the United States 

68 60 US 393(1856)

69 163 US 537(1896)

70 347 US 483


Supreme Court. During the past two decades, the Court has become 

sceptical of race-based affirmative action practiced or ordered by the 

State. The Supreme Court of the US is of the view that affirmative 

action plans must rest upon a sufficient showing or predicate of past 

discrimination which must go beyond the effects of societal 

discrimination. 176. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of 

America and Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act , prohibit universities 

to discriminate on the basis of classifications such as race, colour, 

national origin and the like in all their operations. In a number of 

decisions of the United States Supreme Court spanning decades of 

jurisprudence, a heavy burden has been placed on institutions whose 

affirmative action programmes are challenged before the United 

States Supreme Court on grounds that have been recognized as 

suspect or unconstitutional. According to the United States Supreme 

Court, all such programmes are inherently suspect since they rely on 

suspect forms of classification (such as race). Therefore, because 

such forms of classification are inherently suspect, the courts have 

subjected all affirmative action programmes relying on them to a very 


high standard of scrutiny, wherein those practicing these affirmative 

action programmes have to adhere to a very high standard of proof, 

which we know as the "strict scrutiny" test. 177. The case of Regents of the University of California Vs. 

Bakke71 provided a starting point and from this case onwards, 

affirmative action programmes can be justified only on two distinct 

grounds, and only these grounds have been recognized as 

compelling enough to so as to satisfy the "strict scrutiny" test, as 

developed by the United States Supreme Court. The two grounds are 

as follows: In the case of City of Richmond Vs. J A Croson Co.72, the United 

71 438 US 265 (1978)

72 488 U.S. 469 (1989)


States Supreme Court held that if a university is able to show "some 

showing of prior discrimination" in its existing affirmative action program 

furthering racial exclusion then the university may take "affirmative 

steps to dismantle such a system". However, it is to be noted that the 

US Supreme Court also attached a warning with the above observation. While scrutinizing such programmes, it was held that the Court would 

make "searching judicial inquiry into the justification for such race-based 

measures... [and to] identify that discrimination... with some specificity 

before they may use race-conscious relief". (Croson's Case73) 2. Diversity- All affirmative action programmes aimed at bringing about 

racial diversity among the scholarship of the institution(s) may be said to 

in furtherance of compelling institutional interest. The starting point for 

this ground is Justice Powell's detailed opinion regarding the issue of 

diversity in the case of Regents of the University of California Vs. 

Bakke74 (supra). In this case, according to Justice Powell, "[t]he 

attainment of a diverse student body is clearly a constitutionally 

permissible goal for an institution of higher education". He quoted from 

two of the Supreme Court's decisions regarding academic freedom 

73 (supra), p. 492-93

74 (supra) at 311-313


[Sweezy Vs. New Hampshire75 and Keyishian Vs. Board of 

Regents76] and observed: 178. The other part of the "strict scrutiny" test is the "narrow tailoring" 179. Thus, the first limb of the strict scrutiny test that elucidates the 

"compelling institutional interest" is focused on the objectives that 

affirmative action programmes are designed to achieve. The second 

limb, that of "narrow tailoring", focuses on the details of specific 

affirmative action programmes and on the specific people it aims to 

benefit. 180. The United States Supreme Court has held that race may be one 

of the many factors that can be taken into account while structuring an 

affirmative action programme. At this stage, an analogy may be drawn 

with the Indian situation wherein the Supreme Court of India, in various 

cases, has held that caste may be one of the factors that can be taken 

into account, while providing for reservations for the socially and 

educationally backward classes. However, caste cannot be the "only" factor, just as race alone cannot be the only factor in the United States, 

while structuring reservation or affirmative action programmes. 181. Furthermore, the courts, both in India as well as in the United 

States of America, have looked with extreme caution and care at any 

legislation that aims to discriminate on the basis of race in the US and 


caste in India. As the US Supreme Court elucidated in the case of 

Grutter Vs. Bollinger (supra), "Because the Fourteenth Amendment 

"protect[s] persons, not groups," all governmental action based on race 

ought to be subjected to a very detailed and careful judicial inquiry and 

scrutiny so as to ensure that the personal right to equal protection of the 

laws has not been infringed. (See : Adarand Constructors Inc. Vs. 

Peqa)77. 182. It therefore follows that the government may treat people 

differently because of their race but only for those reasons that serve 

what is known as "compelling government interest". 183. Furthermore, for any affirmative action programme to survive the 

strict standard of judicial scrutiny, the Courts want "compelling 

evidence", that proves without any doubt that the affirmative action 

program is narrowly tailored and serves only the most compelling of 

interests. Thus, the bar for the State or institution that practices 

affirmative action programmes based of suspect classifications has 

been effectively raised. Therefore, in cases where a compelling interest 

is found, race-based methods may be used only after all other methods 

77 (1995) 515 US 200 at 227


have been considered and found deficient, and that too only to that 

limited extent which is required to remedy a discrimination that has 

been identified, and only when it has been shown that the identified 

beneficiaries have suffered previously in the past, and lastly, only if all 

undue burdens that may impinge upon the rights of other non- beneficiaries are avoided. 184. The aforesaid principles applied by the Supreme Court of the 

United States of America cannot be applied directly to India as the 

gamut of affirmative action in India is fully supported by constitutional 

provisions and we have not applied the principles of "suspect 

legislation" and we have been following the doctrine that every 

legislation passed by the Parliament is presumed to be 

constitutionally valid unless otherwise proved. We have repeatedly 

held that the American decisions are not strictly applicable to us and 

the very same principles of strict scrutiny and suspect legislation 

were sought to be applied and this Court rejected the same in Saurabh Chaudhari Vs. Union of India78 . Speaking for the bench, 

V.N. Khare, CJI, said: 185. Learned Counsel Shri Sushil Kumar Jain contended that the 

classification of OBCs was not properly done and it is not clear as to 

whose benefit the legislation itself is made therefore, it is a suspect 

legislation. This contention cannot be accepted. We are of the view 

that the challenge of Act 5 of 2007 on the ground that it does not 

stand the "strict scrutiny" test and there was no "compellable State 

necessity" to enact this legislation cannot be accepted. 10. Whether delegation of power to the Union Government to 

determine as to who shall be the backward class is 

constitutionally valid? 186. The learned Counsel for the petitioners contended that 


though "Backward Class" is defined under Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 

2007, it is not stated in the Act how the "Backward Class" would be 

identified and the delegation of such power to the Union of India to 

determine as to who shall be the "backward class" without their being 

proper guidelines is illegal as it amounts to excessive delegation. According to the learned Counsel for the petitioners, the Parliament 

itself should have laid down the guidelines and decided that who shall 

be included in the backward class as defined under Section 2(g) of 

the Act 5 of 2007. "Backward class" is not a new word. Going by 

the Constitution, there are sufficient constitutional provisions to have 

an idea as to what "backward class" is. Article 340 of the 

Constitution specifically empowers the President of India to appoint a 

Commission to investigate the conditions of the socially and 

educationally backward classes within the territory of India. Socially 

and educationally backward classes of citizens are mentioned in Article 15(4) of the Constitution, which formed the First Amendment 

to the Constitution. Backward class citizens are also mentioned in Article 16(4) of the Constitution. It is only for the purpose of Act 5 of 

2007 that the Union of India has been entrusted with the task of 

determining the backward class. There is already a National 


Commission and also various State Commissions dealing with the 

affairs of the backward class of citizens in this country. For the 

purpose of enforcement of the legislation passed under Article 16(4) , 

the backward class of citizens have already been identified and has 

been in practice since the past 14 years. It is in this background that 

the Union of India has been given the task of determining the 

backward classes. The determination of backward classes itself is a 

laborious task and the Parliament cannot do it by itself. It is incorrect 

to say that there are no sufficient guidelines to determine the 

backward classes. Various parameters have been used and it may 

also be noticed that if any undeserving caste or group of persons are 

included in the backward class, it is open to any person to challenge 

the same through judicial review. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that 

the Union of India has been given wide powers to determine the 

backward classes. The challenge of Act 5 of 2007 on that ground 

fails. 11. Whether the Act is invalid as there is no time limit 

prescribed for its operation and no periodical review is 


contemplated? 187. The learned Counsel for the petitioners contended that 

the reservation of 27% provided for the backward classes in the 

educational institutions contemplated under the Act does not 

prescribe any time limit and this is opposed to the principle of 

equality. According to learned Counsel for the petitioners, this 

affirmative action that is to bring about equality is calculated to 

produce equality on a broader basis by eliminating de facto 

inequalities and placing the weaker sections of the community on a 

footing of equality with the stronger and more power section so that 

each member of the community, whatever is his birth, occupation or 

social position may enjoy equal opportunity of using to the full, his 

natural endowments of physique, of character and of intelligence. This compensatory state action can be continued only for a period till 

that inequality is wiped off. Therefore, the petitioners have 

contended that unless the period is prescribed, this affirmative action 

will continue for an indefinite period and would ultimately result in 

reverse discrimination. It is true that there is some force in the 

contention advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioners but 


that may happen in future if the reservation policy as contemplated 

under the Act is successfully implemented. But at the outset, it may 

not be possible to fix a time limit or a period of time. Depending upon 

the result of the measures and improvements that have taken place 

in the status and educational advancement of the socially and 

educationally backward classes of citizens, the matter could be 

examined by the Parliament at a future time but that cannot be a 

ground for striking down a legislation. After some period, if it so 

happens that any section of the community gets an undue advantage 

of the affirmative action, then such community can very well be 

excluded from such affirmative action programme. The Parliament 

can certainly review the situation and even though a specific class of 

citizens is in the legislation, it is the constitutional duty of the 

Parliament to review such affirmative action as and when the social 

conditions are required. There is also the safeguard of judicial review 

and the court can exercise its powers of judicial review and say that 

the affirmative action has carried out its mission and is thus no longer 

required. In the case of reservation of 27% for backward classes, 

there could be a periodic review after a period of 10 years and the 

Parliament could examine whether the reservation has worked for the 


good of the country. Therefore, the legislation cannot be held to be 

invalid on that ground but a review can be made after a period of 10 

years. 12. What shall be the educational standard to be prescribed to 

find out whether any class is educationally backward? 188. Learned Senior Counsel Shri P.P. Rao contended that 

under Article 15(5) of the Constitution, the reservation or any other 

affirmative action could be made for the advancement of only socially 

and educationally backward classes of citizens or Scheduled Castes 

or Scheduled Tribes and the educational standard to be assessed 

shall be matriculation or 10+2 and not more than that. It was argued 

that many castes included in the backward class list have got a fairly 

good number of members who have passed 10+2 and thus such 

castes are to be treated as educationally forward and the present 

legislation, namely, Act 5 of 2007, is intended to give reservation to 

students in higher institutions of learning and the same is not 

permissible under Article 15(5) of the Constitution. He contended 

that the Parliament should not have made this legislation for 


reservation in the higher institutions of learning as it is not part of the 

duty of the State under Article 46 of the Constitution. According to 

the learned Counsel, education contemplated under Article 46 is only 

giving education upto the standard of 10+2. The learned Counsel 

argued that this was the desire of the Founding Fathers of the 

Constitution. The learned Counsel contended further that the State is 

not taking adequate steps to improve primary education. 189. In reply to Shri P.P. Rao's arguments, learned Solicitor 

General Shri G. E. Vahanvati drew our attention to various steps 

taken by the Union Government to improve the primary school 

education and also the upper primary school education. It is incorrect 

to suggest that there have been no efforts on the part of successive 

Governments to concentrate on level of education towards universal 

elementary education. "Sarva Shiksha Abhiyanm" (SSA) had been 

launched by the Government in 2001-2002. The major components 

of SSA include opening of new schools, distribution of teaching 

equipments, school grant for teachers and maintenance for schools, 

community participation & training, carrying out civil works in school 

buildings, additional class rooms, distribution of free text books for ST 


students and girls. It was pointed out that in the year 2006-2007, 

nearly Rs. 15,000 crores had been spent for such education. The 

Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme was started 

in 1975. Latest figures show that progress has been made in the 

field of education. It is pointed out that the primary school coverage 

has increased from 86.96% (2002) to 96% and that of Upper Primary 

School has increased from 78.11% to 85.3% with the opening of 1.34 

Lakh Primary Schools and 1.01 lakh Upper Primary Schools. The 

gross enrolment has also increased at the primary as well as upper 

primary stage. Drop out rate has fallen by 11.3%. It is also pointed 

out that girls enrolment has increased from 43.7% (2001) to 46.7% 

(2004) at primary and from 40.9% to 44% at upper primary stage. The Union of India has granted funds to various states for the 

purpose of meeting the education requirements. The entire details 

were furnished to the Court and we do not think it necessary to go 

into these details. Though at the time of attaining Independence, the 

basic idea was to improve primary and secondary level education, 

but now, after a period of more than 50 years, it is idle to contend that 

the backward classes shall be determined on the basis of their 

attaining education only to the level of 10+2 stage. In India there are 


a large number of arts, science and professional colleges and in the 

field of education, it is anachronistic to contend that primary 

education or secondary education shall be the index for fixing 

backward class of citizens. We find no force in the contention 

advanced by the learned Counsel for the petitioners and it is only to 

be rejected. 13. Whether the quantum of reservation provided for in the Act 

is valid and whether 27% of seats for SEBC was required to be 

reserved? 190. The main contention of the petitioner's Counsel especially 

that of Shri Sushil Kumar Jain is that the entire Act is liable to be set 

aside as there was no necessity to provide any reservation to socially 

and educationally backward classes and according to him most of the 

castes included in the list which is prepared in accordance with the 

Mandal Commission are educationally very much advanced and the 

population of such group is not scientifically collected and the 

population ratio of backward classes is projected only on the basis of 

the 1931 census and the entire legislation is an attempt to please a 


section of the society as part of a vote catching mechanism. 191. A legislation passed by the Parliament can be challenged 

only on constitutionally recognized grounds. Ordinarily, grounds of 

attack of a legislation is whether the legislature has legislative 

competence or whether the legislation is ultra vires of the provisions 

of the Constitution. If any of the provisions of the legislation violates 

fundamental rights or any other provisions of the Constitution, it could 

certainly be a valid ground to set aside the legislation by invoking the 

power of judicial review. A legislation could also be challenged as 

unreasonable if it violates the principles of equality adumbrated in our 

Constitution or it unreasonably restricts the fundamental rights under Article 19 of the Constitution. A legislation cannot be challenged 

simply on the ground of unreasonableness because that by itself 

does not constitute a ground. The validity of a constitutional 

amendment and the validity of plenary legislation have to be decided 

purely as questions of constitutional law. This Court in State of 

Rajasthan & Ors. Vs. Union of India and Others79 said : 192. Therefore, the plea of the Petitioner that the legislation 

itself was intended to please a section of the community as part of 

the vote catching mechanism is not a legally acceptable plea and it is 

only to be rejected. 193. The quantum of reservation provided under the Act 5 of 

2007 is based on the detailed facts available with the Parliament. Various commissions have been in operation determining as to who 

shall form the SEBCs. Though a caste-wise census is not available, 

several other data and statistics are available. In the case of Indra 

Sawhney (supra), the Mandal Commission was accepted in principle 

though the details and findings of the commissions were not fully 

accepted by this Court. 27% of reservation in the matter of 

employment was accepted by this Court. Petitioners have not 

produced any documents to show that the backward class citizens 

are less than 27%, vis-`-vis, the total population of this country or 

that there was no requirement of 27% reservation for them. The 

Parliament is invested with the power of legislation and must be 


deemed to have taken into consideration all relevant circumstances 

when passing a legislation of this nature. It is futile to contend 

whether Parliament was not aware of the statistical details of the 

population of this country and, therefore, we do not think that 27% 

reservation provided in the Act is illegal or on that account, the Act 

itself is liable to be struck down. Questions: The Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 2005 does not 

violate the "basic structure" of the Constitution so far as it relates to 

the state maintained institutions and aided educational institutions. Question whether the Constitution (Ninety-Third Amendment) Act, 

2005 would be constitutionally valid or not so far as "private unaided" under Section 2(g) of the Act 5 of 2007 should be deemed to mean 

class or classes of citizens who are socially and educationally 

backward, and so determined by the Central Government; and if the 

determination is with reference to caste, then the backward class 

shall be after excluding the creamy layer. (Paragraphs 153 and 155) 8. Whether the "creamy layer" principle is applicable to 

Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes? 9. Whether the principles laid down by the United States 

Supreme Court for affirmative action such as "suspect 

legislation", "strict scrutiny" and "compelling State necessity" 10. Whether delegation of power to the Union Government to 

determine as to who shall be the backward class is 

constitutionally valid? The delegation of power to the Union Government to determine as to 

who shall be the "other backward classes" is not excessive 

delegation. Such delegation is constitutionally valid. (Paragraph 186) 11. Whether the Act is invalid as there is no time limit 

prescribed for its operation and no periodical review is 

contemplated? The Act 5 of 2007 is not invalid for the reason that there is no time 

limit prescribed for its operation, but a review can be made after a 

period of 10 years. (Paragraph 187) 12. What shall be the educational standard to be prescribed to 

find out whether any class is educationally backward? The contention that educational standard of matriculation or (10+2) 

should be the benchmark to find out whether any class is 

educationally backward is rejected. (Paragraph 189) 13. Whether the quantum of reservation provided for in the Act 


is valid and whether 27% of seats for SEBC was required to be 

reserved? 27% of seats for other backward classes is not illegal and the 

Parliament must be deemed to have taken into consideration all 

relevant circumstances when fixing the 27% reservation. (Paragraph 193)

These Writ Petitions are disposed off in light of the above findings, 

and the "Other Backward Classes" defined in Section 2(g) of Act 5 of 

2007 is to be read as "Socially and Educationally Backward Classes" quota as members of opposition, have done summersault and 

were saying just the opposite. It is pointed out that when one 

member Shri P.C. Alexandar exhibited real courage and 

highlighted the fallacies in the stand taken, his view appears 

to have been lightly brushed aside and the Statute hustled 

through. It is also submitted that the objectivity and sanctity 

of the report submitted in the Parliament commonly known as 


"Oversight Committee Report" has been lightly brushed aside. This only indicates that there was no serious debate about the 

consequences. The foresight of late Rajiv Gandhi in saying 

that the country will be divided on caste basis and that would 

lead to disaster has been prophetically proved to be correct 

and it is a reality. It is submitted that the enactment has 

created a sharp divide amongst the citizens of the country and 

it has not even an iota of good results flowing from it. On the 

contrary, the country will be divided sharply leading to social 

unrest and caste-wars. It is pointed out that in the recent past 

such caste wars have resulted in large scale loss of life and 

destruction of public properties. 10. The relevance of the parliamentary debate or the speech 

of the Minister has been highlighted by this Court in many 

cases. It is a settled position in law that there can be only 

limited use of the parliamentary debate. The Courts should 

not normally critically analyse the proceedings of Parliament. This flows from a very fundamental aspect i.e. mutual respect 

of the Parliament and the Judiciary for each other. Each of 


these great institutions in a democracy operates in different 

fields. It is not expected that one wing of democracy would 

criticize the manner of functioning of another wing. That 

would be against the basic desirability of mutual respect. Any 

opinion or comment or criticism about the manner of 

functioning of one by the other would be not only undesirable 

but imperatively avoidable. The citizens of this country expect 

a great deal from the Parliament and the Judiciary. It is but 

natural that the people of this country would be disappointed 

and dis-heartened and their hopes will be shattered if instead 

of showing respect for each other, there is mudslinging, 

unwanted criticism or impermissible criticism about the 

manner of functioning or the rationale of a decision or a view 

taken. In this context, it would be relevant to take note of what 

this Court said in Builders Association of India v. Union of 

India and Ors. (1995 Supp (1) SCC 41), and K. Nagaraj and 

Ors. v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Anr. (1985 (1) SCC 523). In State of Mysore v. R.V. Bidap (1974 (3) SCC 337), it was 

observed as follows: The rule of grammatical construction has been accepted in 

India before and after Independence. In the State of 

Travancore-Cochin and Ors. v. Bombay Company Ltd., 

Alleppey , (AIR 1952 S.C. 366), Chief Justice Patanjali Sastri 

delivering the judgment of the Court, said :- Or, as it is more tersely put in an American case- 11. In the American jurisdiction, a more natural note has 

sometimes been struck. Mr. Justice Frankfurter was of the 

view that- 12. Crawford on Statutory Construction at page 388 notes 

that- The Rule of Exclusion has been criticised by jurists as 

artificial. The trend of academic opinion and the practice in 

the European system suggest that interpretation of a statute 

being an exercise in the ascertainment of meaning, everything 

which is logically relevant should be admissible. Recently, an 

eminent Indian jurist has reviewed the legal position and 

expressed his agreement with Julius Stone and Justice 

Frankfurter. Of course, nobody suggests that such extrinsic 

materials should be decisive but they must be admissible. Authorship and interpretation must mutually illumine and 

interact. There is authority for the proposition that resort may 

be had to these sources with great caution and only when 

incongruities and ambiguities are to be resolved. A.K. Gopalan 

v. State of Madras (1950 SCR 88). There is a strong case for 

whittling down the Rule of Exclusion followed in the British 

courts and for less apologetic reference to legislative 

proceedings and like materials to read the meaning of the 


words of a statute. Where it is plain, the language prevails, but 

where there is obscurity or lack of harmony with other 

provisions and in other special circumstances, it may be 

legitimate to take external assistance such as the object of the 

provisions, the mischief sought to be remedied, the social 

context, the words of the authors and other allied matters. The 

law of statutory construction is a strategic branch of 

jurisprudence which must, it may be felt, respond to the great 

social changes but a conclusive pronouncement on the 

particular point arising here need not detain us because 

nothing decisive as between the alternative interpretations 

flows from a reliance on the Constituent Assembly proceedings 

or the broad purposes of the statutory scheme. 13. One thing however needs to be noted here that mere 

short length of debate cannot and does not become a ground 

for invalidity of the decision and the reverse is also not true. 14. Elaborate arguments have been advanced about the 

applicability of the foreign decisions, more particularly, the 

American Courts. It is to be noted that the American cases 

which have been highlighted by the petitioners relate 

essentially to strict classification, strict scrutiny and narrow 

tailoring. This issue is of considerable importance when so 

much debate is taking place about respect being shown by 

courts of a country to a decision of another country. The 


factual scenario and the basic issues involved in the cases 

sometimes throw light on the controversy. It has been rightly 

contended by Mr. Vahanvati and Mr. Gopal Subramanium 

that there is a conceptual difference between the cases 

decided by the American Supreme Court and the cases at 

hand. In Saurabh Chaudri and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors . (2003 (11) SCC 146) it was held that the logic of strict 

classification and strict scrutiny does not have much 

relevance in the cases of the nature at hand. If one looks at 

the different Statutes in India, Article 14 of the Constitution is 

conceptually different from 14th Amendment to the American 

Constitution as was noted in State of West Bengal vs. Anwar 

Ali Sarkar (1952 SCR 284) and State of Bombay and Anr. v. F.N. Balsara (1952 SCR 682). In Anwar Ali's case (supra) at 

pages 363 and 364 it was noted as follows: but "the more general body of doctrine and tradition from 

which those precepts are chiefly drawn, and by which we 

criticise, them." 15. It needs no emphasis that the formal equality concept 

came to be recognized in U.S.A. after about 10 years of its 

inception. In the first phase of the U.S.A. Constitutional Law 

there was only affirmative action but in the Indian 

Constitution right from the beginning affirmative action has 

been provided, for example, provisions made for Scheduled 

Castes and Schedules Tribes. A distinction has been noted in 

para 640 of Indra Sawhney No.1. Articles 38(1) and 38(2) read with Article 46 of the Constitution make the position 

clear that the State is charged with the duty to secure 

interests of the weaker sections of the people and minimize the 

inequalities in income. The Constitution from its inception 

contained Article 17 which abolishes untouchability. 16. In this context the following paras need to be noted. 17. In Minerva Mills Ltd. and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors . (1980) 3 SCC 625) in para 63 it was held as follows: 18. In His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Anr. (1973 (4) SCC 225) it was held as 

under: 19. In Sajan Singh v. Maharashtra Sugar Mills Ltd. (AIR 

1965 SC 845) it was held as follows: Parliament desires that agrarian reform in a broad and 

comprehensive sense must be introduced in the interests of a 

very large section of Indian citizens who live in villages and 

whose financial prospects are integrally connected with the 

pursuit of progressive agrarian policy. Thus, if the pith and 

substance test is applied to the amendment made by the 

impugned Act, it would be clear that Parliament is seeking to 

amend fundamental rights solely with the object of removing 

any possible obstacle in the fulfilment of the socio-economic 


policy in which the party in power believes. If that be so, the 

effect of the amendment on the area over which the High 

Courts' powers prescribed by Art. 226 operate, is incidental 

and in the present case can be described as of an insignificant 

order. The impugned Act does not purport to change the 

provisions of Art. 226 and it cannot be said even to have that 

effect directly or in any appreciable measure. That is why we 

think that the argument that the impugned Act falls under the 

proviso, cannot be sustained. It is an Act the object of which is 

to amend the relevant Articles in Part III which confer 

fundamental rights on citizens and as such it falls under the 

substantive part of Art. 368 and does not attract the 

provisions of clause (b) of the proviso. If the effect of the 

amendment made in the fundamental rights on Art. 226 is 

direct and not incidental and is of a very significant order, 

different considerations may perhaps arise. But in the present 

case, there is no occasion to entertain or weigh the said 

considerations. Therefore the main contention raised by the 

petitioners and the interveners against the validity of the 

impugned Act must be rejected." 20. In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors. (1992 Supp. (2) 

SCC 651) it was observed as follows: 62. In the present cases, though the amendment does 

not bring in any change directly in the language of Article 136 , 

226 and 227 of the Constitution, however, in effect 

paragraph 7 curtails the operation of those Articles 

respecting matters falling under the Tenth Schedule. There is 

a change in the effect in Article 136 , 226 and 227 within the 

meaning of clause (b) of the proviso to Article 368(2). Paragraph 7, therefore, attracts the proviso and 

ratification was necessary. Accordingly, on Point B, we hold: 21. In Shri Sarwan Singh and Anr. v. Shri Kasturi Lal (1977 

(1) SCC 750) it was observed as follows: 22. In J.K. Cotton Spinning and weaving co. Ltd. v. State of 

U.P. and Anr. (1961 (3) SCR 185) it was observed as under: 23. In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. UOI (1957 SCR 930) it 

was held as under: Vide Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 82, p. 156; Sutherland on 

Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 176-177. 2. If the valid and invalid provisions are so inextricably mixed 

up that they cannot be separated from one another, then the 

invalidity of a portion must result in the invalidity of the Act in 

its entirety. On the other hand, if they are so distinct and 

separate that after striking out what is invalid, what remains 

is in itself a complete code independent of the rest, then it will 

be upheld notwithstanding that the rest has become 

unenforceable. Vide Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1 

at pp. 360-361; Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 217- 218. 3. Even when the provisions which are valid are distinct and 

separate from those which are invalid, if they all form part of a 

single scheme which is intended to be operative as a whole, 


then also the invalidity of a part will result in the failure of the 

whole. Vide Crawford on Statutory Construction, pp. 218-219. 4. Likewise, when the valid and invalid parts of a statute are 

independent and do not form part of a scheme but what is left 

after omitting the invalid portion is so thin and truncated as to 

be in substance different from what it was when it emerged 

out of the legislature, then also it will be rejected in its 

entirety. 5. The separability of the valid and invalid provisions of a 

statute does not depend on whether the law is enacted in the 

same section or different sections; (Vide Cooley's 

Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, pp. 361-362); it is not the 

form, but the substance of the matter that is material, and 

that has to be ascertained on an examination of the Act as a 

whole and of the setting of the relevant provisions therein. 6. If after the invalid portion is expunged from the statute 

what remains cannot be enforced without making alterations 

and modifications therein, then the whole of it must be struck 

down as void, as otherwise it will amount to judicial 

legislation. Vide Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, 

p. 194. 7. In determining the legislative intent on the question of 

separability, it will be legitimate to take into account the 

history of the legislation, its object, the title and the preamble 

to it. Vide Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Vol. 2, pp. 177-178." 24. In AIIMS Students Union v. AIIMS (2002 (1) SCC 428) in 

para 35 it was observed as follows: It was again highlighted in para 44 as follows: 25. A bare reading of the provision goes to show that the 

burden is on the person who justifies deviation from equality. 26. Even then, this doctrine was upheld by the Supreme 

Court of U.S.A. in Plessy v. Ferguson (163 U.S. 537(1896). This case involved a challenge to a Louisiana statute that 

provided for equal but separate accommodations for black and 

white passengers in trains. The Court rejected the challenge. Justice Brown famously observed: 27. He held that racial segregation was a reasonable exercise 

of State police power for the promotion of the public good and 

upheld the law. 28. Thus, even in this second phase, affirmative action was 

never truly initiated - the country was still struggling to 

establish even a formally equal society. 29. At the same time, another very important development in 

its constitutional law was taking place, which would later have 

a serious impact on affirmative action programmes. This was 

the birth of the doctrine of strict scrutiny. 30. `Strict scrutiny' is one of the three standards for judicial 

review of legislative and administrative action developed in the 

United States, the other being "rational basis" and 

"intermediate scrutiny". 31. The origin of this standard can be traced to the decision 

in United States v Carolene Products (304 U.S. 144 (1938). The question before the Court was whether the Filled Milk Act, 

1923 which prohibited the shipment in interstate commerce of 

skimmed milk compounded with any fat or oil other than milk 

fat, so as to resemble milk or cream, transcended the power of 

Congress to regulate inter state commerce or infringed the 

Fifth Amendment. Justice Harlan Stone, writing the opinion 

for the Court, upheld the law, holding that the existence of 


facts supporting the legislative judgment was to be presumed, 

for regulatory legislation affecting ordinary commercial 

transactions was not to be pronounced unconstitutional 

unless in the light of the facts made known or generally 

assumed it was of such a character as to preclude the 

assumption that it rested upon some rational basis within the 

knowledge and experience of the legislators. However, he 

added what has been described as "the most celebrated 

footnote in constitutional law". 32. What the Court was saying was that economic legislation 

would be judged by a standard of "rational basis" - so long as 

the law was a rational way of furthering a legitimate 

governmental purpose, it was valid. However, where the 

legislation "on its face" appeared to be violating any of the 

fundamental rights, a more exacting standard would be 

applied. 33. The precise term "strict scrutiny" was used by the Court 

for the first time in Skinner v. Oklahoma (316 U.S. 535 (1942). The Oklahoma Habitual Criminal Sterilisation Act provided for 

vasectomy to be performed on any person convicted two or 

more times for crimes amounting to "felonies involving moral 

turpitude". Justice Douglas, giving the opinion of the Court, 

described the statute as violating the right to have offspring - 34. In India there has to be collective commitment for 

upliftment of those who needed it. In that sense, the question 

again comes back to the basic issue as to whether the action 

taken by the Government can be upheld after making judicial 


scrutiny. Much assistance is not available to the petitioners 

from the American decisions. 35. It is to be noted that the doctrine of separation as is 

prevalent in the American Society is not of much consequence 

in the Indian scenario. It needs to be clarified that the 

expression `strict scrutiny' has also been used by the Indian 

Courts in Narendra Kumar and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors . (1960 (2) SCR 375) but it appears to have been used in 

different context. What really appears to be the intention for 

the use of the expression is "careful and deeper scrutiny" and 

not in the sense of strict scrutiny of the provisions as is 

prevalent in the American jurisprudence. It is used in 

different sense. The application appears to be in technical 

sense in the American Courts, for example, Regents of 

University of California v. Allan Bakke (438 U.S. 265). 36. Some of the judgments of American Courts throwing light 

on the controversy need to be noted: 37. In Allan Bakke's case (supra) it was held as follows: 38. In Grutter v. Bollinger (539 U.S. 306) it was held as 

follows: conscious admissions program not unduly harm members of 

any racial group. Even remedial race-based governmental 

action generally "remains subject to continuing oversight to 

assure that it will work the least harm possible to other 

innocent persons competing for the benefit." Id., at 308, 57 L 

Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733. To be narrowly tailored, a race- conscious admissions program must not "unduly burden 

individuals who are not members of the favored racial and 

ethnic groups." Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC, 497 Us 547, 

630, 111 L Ed 2d 445, 110 S Ct 2997 (1990) (O' Connor, J., 


dissenting). [22b, 23] We are satisfied that the Law School's admissions 

program does not. Because the Law School considers "all 

pertinent elements of diversity," it can (and does) select non- minority applicants who have greater potential to enhance 

student body diversity over underrepresented minority 

applicants. See Bakke, supra, at 317, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S 

Ct 2733 (opinion of Powell, J). As Justice Powell recognized in 

Bakke, so long as a race-conscious admissions program uses 

race as a "plus" factor in the context of individualized 

consideration, a rejected applicant "will not have been 

foreclosed from all consideration for that seat simply because 

he was not the right color or had the wrong surname ...... His 

qualifications would have been weighed fairly and 

competitively, and he would have no basis to complain of 

unequal treatment under the Fourteenth Amendment." 438 

US, at 318, 57 L Ed 2d 750, 98 S Ct 2733. [13f, 22C] We agree that, in the context of its individualized 

inquiry into the possible diversity contributions of all 

applicants, the Law School's race-conscious admissions 

program does not unduly harm nonminority applicants. [24, 25a, 26] We are mindful, however, that "[a] core purpose 

of the Fourteenth Amendment was to do away with all 

governmentally imposed discrimination based on race" 39. The provisions of the American Constitution in United 

States relating to formal equality concept do not appear to 

have operated from the beginning of the American 

Constitution. 40. Although even under the 1919 and 1935 Government of 

India Acts the rights of certain class of people like Scheduled 

Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the deprived classes have been 

recognized, in America, the rights have been conferred on 

individuals and so much on the groups. The freedoms 

contemplated by the Indian Constitution originally related to 

seven categories which presently stand at six after the 

property rights were deleted. The stand of Mr. Vahanvati and 

Mr. Gopal Subramanium is that the logic of strict scrutiny, 

compelling the Government and narrow tailoring do not have 

relevance so far as the present case is concerned. 41. In Thomas 's case (supra) it was clearly noticed by this 

Court that American conditions do not apply adequately for 

the Indian scenario. Unlike U.S.A., the targeted beneficiaries 

are alien to our Constitution. In India cognizance has been 

taken constitutionally. The victims of untouchability, 

identifying social and economic backwardness have been 

accepted as permissible measures. However, the question how 


long they can be continued is another aspect which shall be 

dealt with separately. Rationality in that sense is a measure 

for the special provisions. But the question that still needs to 

be addressed is whether these groups are really identifiable. While formulating the policy all factors need not be specifically 

expressed but there must be some criteria to identify social 

and educational backwardness. 42. In A.K. Roy v. Union of India (1982 (1) SCC 271) it was 

noted as follows: 43. One of the grey areas focused by learned counsel for the 

petitioners and the respondents is the ever perplexing 

question "how long". The respondents say that so long as the 

problems of backwardness exist they can be continued. The 

petitioners have highlighted that notwithstanding the 

concerns shown in Indra Sawhney No.1 and in a large number 

of cases that the reservations are not meant to be a 

permanent feature there is a case for concern. Admittedly, 

there is no deletion from the list of other backward classes. It 

goes on increasing. Learned counsel for the respondents have 

stated that in large number of cases where applications were 

made for inclusion they have been turned down. But that is no 

answer to the question as to why and how there has been no 


exclusion. Is it that backwardness has increased instead of 

decreasing. If the answer is `yes', as contended by the 

respondents, then one is bound to raise eyebrows as to the 

effectiveness of providing reservations or quotas. 44. The ultimate object is to bring those who are 

disadvantaged to a level where they no longer continue to be 

dis-advantaged. It needs no emphasis that individual rights 

are superior to the social rights. All fundamental rights are to 

be read together. The inequalities are to be removed. Yet the 

fact that there has been no exclusion raises a doubt about the 

real concern to remove inequality. 45. The ultimate objective is to bring people to a particular 

level so that there can be equality of opportunity. In that 

context, one has to keep in view the justice and redress 

principles. There should not be mere equality in law but 

equality in fact. 46. The necessary ingredients of equality essentially involve 


equalization of unequals. Linked with this question the 

problem posed by the petitioners is whether reservation is the 

only way to equalize unequals? There are several methods and 

modes. If reservation really does not work as contended by the 

petitioners, then the alternative methods can be adopted. It is 

the stand of the respondents that not only reservations but 

other incentives like free lodging and boarding facilities have 

been provided in some States. 47. Learned counsel for the respondents have stated that 

the measures under challenge are nothing but a much needed 

leap towards attainment of the objectives. If it is true, the leap 

has to end somewhere. It cannot hang in the air as there is 

nothing immortal in this world; much less, a progressive 

measure purportedly intended to benefit the other backward 

classes. If after nearly six decades the objectives have not been 

achieved, necessarily the need for its continuance warrants 

deliberations. It is to be noted that some of the provisions were 

intended to be replaced after a decade but have continued. It 

indirectly shows that backwardness appears to have 


purportedly increased and not diminished. It would therefore 

be rational and logical to restrict operation of the impugned 

Statute for a period of 10 years from its inception. 48. At this juncture, report of the Oversight Committee 

throws considerable light on the controversy. Some parts of 

the Report need to be noted. This report seeks to expand the provision of Higher 

Education while at the same time ensuring social inclusion 

and academic excellence. A society which excludes a 

significant section of its population from access to higher 

education cannot be said to be providing equality of 

opportunity. Equally, if academic excellence gets compromised 

in the process of expansion, it would lose its competitive edge 

in the emerging knowledge society - an edge which can propel 

India into a position of global leadership. Page X and XI of the report

 A simpler way of implementing reservations was to 

steamroll our way through, in the name of social equity, 

regardless of its impact on quality and excellence. We have 

deliberately chosen the more difficult way which delivers 

equity in a manner that enhances excellence i.e. by making 

concomitant investments in faculty & infrastructure and by 

bringing much needed governance related reforms involving 

institutional, financial and administrative autonomy and 

process re-engineering in our Higher Educational Governance 

system. It is easy to equalize by "mindlessly leveling everyone 

down to lowest common-denominator". Our effort has been to 


create an upward moving equalization process- where the 

disabilities are overcome by the erstwhile excluded sections 

and the system brings out the best in them. Besides the many out of the box innovative ideas 

concerning faculty and infrastructure related issues, I believe 

three of our recommendations, which cut horizontally across 

the five groups, are critical to the establishment of the goal of 

an "inclusive society, in pursuit of excellence". These four 

programmes are considered by the Oversight Committee to be 

integral to the above vision and should be considered to be 

inseverable part of our core recommendations. (page-x)

 We have to acknowledge that the challenges facing us in 

the entire education sector are enormous and in the Tertiary 

Education Sector these can be met, only if both public and 

private funding to educational institutions increased several 

fold. The need for private participation in this mammoth task 

cannot be over-emphasized but market forces themselves 

cannot deliver justice. The relative importance of public vs. 

private funding is brought out very strongly by Joseph Stiglitz 

when he opined "I had studied the failures of both markets 

and governments, and was not so naove to think that the 

government could remedy every failure. Neither was I so 

foolish as to believe that markets by themselves solved every 

societal problem. Inequality, unemployment, pollution: these 

are all important issues in which Government has to take an 

importance role." 49. It was emphasized by learned counsel for the petitioners 

that the massive financial burden question finds no place in 

the parliamentary debate. In response, Mr. Vahanvati has 


submitted that before the Parliamentary Standing Committee, 

the report of the Oversight Committee was available. When the 

Oversight Committee's report was discussed in detail, needless 

to say the financial aspect was also considered. 50. It has been highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao that unmindful of 

the duty to focus on primary and elementary education, large 

sums of money are intended to be used for implementation of 

Statute. Various figures and datas have been highlighted to 

show that there is really no concern for the primary and 

elementary education. Repelling these contentions Mr. 

Vahanvati has highlighted that there is no laxity so far as 

primary and elementary education is concerned. He has 

referred to voluminous details relating to Sarva Shiksha 

Abhiyan. It is contended that uniform policy of elementary 

education and the progress made upto 31.3.2007 shows the 

concern of the Government to translate into reality the 

constitutional objective of providing adequate education to all 

citizens. It is true that there has been considerable effort in 

this regard. But one question still remains to be answered. There has to be balancing of priorities. Mr. Vahanvati has said 

that this balancing is prerogative of the Government. It is true 

that Government has a large area of discretion in choosing its 

priorities. But one factor cannot be lost sight of. The 

fundamental stress has to be on elementary education. If that 

is done, as a consequence there would be reduction in the 

need for spending more money on higher education. Stress on 

primary and elementary education would be a leap forward 

towards higher education. There has been considerable 

number of drop outs in the higher classes. This is a reality in 

spite of all steps which the Government claims to have 

adopted to ensure that every child of a particular age group 

has education as warranted by the Constitution as a 

fundamental right. 51. Unni Krishnan, J.P. and Ors. v. State of A.P. and Ors . (1993 (1) SCC 645) emphasized on the importance of 

education in the following words: 52. Observations of this Court in AIIMS Students' Union case 

(supra) highlight the importance of higher education and the 

modalities to be adopted for ensuring excellence are in the 

following words: 53. Respondents have vehemently contended that the 

concept of creamy layer may have relevance for the purpose of Article 16(4) , but is really inconsequential so far as Articles 

15(4) and 15(5) are concerned. It is submitted that Article 

16(4) is relatable to inadequate representation in Government 

services and in that context the well to do in the socially and 

educationally backward classes have to be excluded in view of 

the decisions of this Court. But that logic cannot apply to the 

present dispute which relates to admissions to educational 

institutions. Before considering the question as to the 

desirability of excluding `creamy layer' the concept of creamy 

layer needs to be focused upon. Observations of this Court in 


various cases on this concept need to be noted. 54. In N.M. Thomas 's case (supra) at page 363, it was inter 

alia observed as follows : 55. In Vasant Kumar 's case (supra) at page 732 the view 

was re-iterated in the following words : 25. A few other aspects for rejecting caste as the basis for 

identifying social and educational backwardness may be 

briefly noted. If State patronage for preferred treatment 

accepts caste as the only insignia for determining social and 

educational backwardness, the danger looms large that this 

approach alone would legitimise and perpetuate caste system. It does not go well with our proclaimed secular character as 

enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution. The 

assumption that all members of same caste a re equally 

socially and educationally backward is not well-founded. Such 

an approach provides an over-simplification of a complex 

problem of identifying the social and educational 

backwardness. The Chairman of the Backward Classes 

Commission, set up in 1953, after having finalised the report, 

concluded that "it would have been better if we could 

determine the criteria of backwardness on principles other 

than caste". Lastly it is recognised without dissent that the 

caste based reservation has been usurped by the economically 

well-placed section in the same caste. To illustrate, it may be 

pointed that some years ago, I came across a petition for 

special leave against the decision of the Punjab and Haryana 

High Court in which the reservation of 2= per cent for 

admission to medical and engineering colleges in favour of 

Majhabi Sikhs was challenged by none other than the upper 

crust of the members of the Scheduled castes amongst Sikhs 

in Punjab, proving that the labeled weak exploits the really 

weaker. Add to this, the findings of the Research Planning 

Scheme of sociologists assisting the Mandal Commission when 


it observed: "while determining the criteria of socially and 

educationally backward classes, social backwardness should 

be considered to be the critical element and educational 

backwardness to be the linked element though not necessarily 

derived from the former". The team ultimately concluded that 

"social backwardness refers to ascribed status, and it 

considered social backwardness as the critical element and 

educational backwardness to be the linked though not derived 

element". The attempt is to identify socially and educationally 

backward classes of citizens. The caste, as is understood in 

Hindu Society, is unknown to Muslims, Christians, Parsis, 

Jews etc. Caste criterion would not furnish a reliable yardstick 

to identify socially and educationally backward group in the 

aforementioned communities though economic backwardness 

would. 28. Reservation in one or other form has been there for 

decades. If a survey is made with reference to families in 

various castes considered to be socially and educationally 

backward, about the benefits of preferred treatment, it would 

unmistakably show that the benefits of reservations are 

snatched away by the top creamy layer of the backward 

castes. This has to be avoided at any cost. 56. Significantly in Indra Sawhney No.1 it was emphatically 

noted as follows: argument. Petitioners submit that some members of the 

designated backward classes are highly advanced socially as 

well as economically and educationally. It is submitted that 

they constitute the forward section of that particular backward 

class -- as forward as any other forward class member -- and 

that they are lapping up all the benefits of reservations meant 

for that class, without allowing the benefits to reach the truly 

backward members of that class. These persons are by no 

means backward and with them a class cannot be treated as 

backward. It is pointed out that since Jayasree almost every 

decision has accepted the validity of this submission. 791. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the States of 

Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and other counsel for respondents 

strongly oppose any such distinction. It is submitted that once 

a class is identified as a backward class after applying the 

relevant criteria including the economic one, it is not 

permissible to apply the economic criteria once again and sub- divide a backward class into two sub-categories. Counsel for 

the State of Tamil Nadu submitted further that at one stage (in 

July 1979) the State o f Tamil Nadu did indeed prescribe such 

an income limit but had to delete it in view of the practical 

difficulties encountered and also in view of the representations 

received. In this behalf, the learned counsel invited our 


attention to Chapter 7-H (pages 60 to 62) of the Ambashankar 

Commission (Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes 

Commission) Report. According to the respondents the 

argument of `creamy layer' is but a mere ruse, a trick, to 

deprive the backward classes of the benefit of reservations. It 

is submitted that no member of backward class has come 

forward with this plea and that it ill becomes the members of 

forward classes to raise this point. Strong reliance is placed 

upon the observations of Chinnappa Reddy, J in Vasanth 

kumar to the following effect (SCC p.763, para 72) 

" .. .. One must, however, enter a caveat to the criticism that 

the benefits of reservation are often snatched away by the top 

creamy layer of backward class or caste. That a few of the 

seats and posts reserved for backward classes are snatched 

away by the more fortunate among them is not to say that 

reservation is not necessary. This is bound to happen in a 

competitive society such as ours. Are not the unreserved seats 

and posts snatched away, in the same way, by the top creamy 

layer of society itself? Seats reserved for the backward classes 

are taken away by the top layers amongst them on the same 

principle of merit on which the unreserved seats are taken 

away by the top layers of society. How can it be bad if reserved 

seats and posts are snatched away by the creamy layer of 

backward classes, if such snatching away of unreserved posts 

by the top creamy layer of society itself is not bad?" 792. In our opinion, it is not a question of permissibility or 

desirability of such test but one of proper and more 

appropriate identification of a class -- a backward class. The 

very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having 

certain common traits which distinguish them from the 

others. In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16 , if 

the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should 


broadly be the same in a given class. If some of the members 

are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily 

means economically and, may also mean educationally) the 

connecting thread between them and the remaining class 

snaps. They would be misfits in the class. After excluding 

them alone, would the class be a compact class. In fact, such 

exclusion benefits the truly backward. Difficulty, however, 

really lies in drawing the line -- how and where to draw the 

line? For, while drawing the line, it should be ensured that it 

does not result in taking away with one hand what is given by 

the other. The basis of exclusion should not merely be 

economic, unless, of course, the economic advancement is so 

high that it necessarily means social advancement. Let us 

illustrate the point. A member of backward class, say a 

member of carpenter caste, goes to Middle East and works 

there as a carpenter. If you take his annual income in rupees, 

it would be fairly high from the Indian standard. Is he to be 

excluded from the Backward Class? Are his children in India 

to be deprived of the benefit of Article 16(4)? Situation may, 

however, be different, if he rises so high economically as to 

become -- say a factory owner himself. In such a situation, his 

social status also rises. He himself would be in a position to 

provide employment to others. In such a case, his income is 

merely a measure of his social status. Even otherwise there 

are several practical difficulties too in imposing an income 

ceiling. For example, annual income of Rs.36,000 may not 

count for much in a city like Bombay, Delhi or Calcutta 

whereas it may be a handsome income in rural India 

anywhere. The line to be drawn must be a realistic one. Another question would be, should such a line be uniform for 

the entire country or a given State or should it differ from 

rural to urban areas and so on. Further, income from 

agriculture may be difficult to assess and, therefore, in the 

case of agriculturists, the line may have to be drawn with 

reference to the extent of holding. While the income of a 

person can be taken as a measure of his social advancement, 

the limit to be prescribed should not be such as to result in 

taking away with one hand what is given with the other. The 

income limit must be such as to mean and signify social 


advancement. At the same time, it must be recognised that 

there are certain positions, the occupants of which can be 

treated as socially advanced without any further enquiry. For 

example, if a member of a designated backward class becomes 

a member of IAS or IPS or any other All India Service, his 

status is society (social status) rises; he is no longer socially 

disadvantaged. His children get full opportunity to realize their 

potential. They are in no way handicapped in the race of life. 793. Keeping in mind all these considerations, we direct the 

Government of India to specify the basis of exclusion -- whether on the basis of income, extent of holding or otherwise -- of `creamy layer'. This shall be done as early as possible, 

but not exceeding four months. On such specification persons 

falling within the net of exclusionary rule shall cease to be the 

members of the Other Backward Classes (covered by the 

expression `backward class of citizens') for the purpose of Article 16(4). The impugned Office Memorandums dated 

August 13, 1990 and September 25, 1991 shall be 

implemented subject only to such specification and exclusion 

of socially advanced persons from the backward classes 

contemplated by the said O.M. In other words, after the expiry 

of four months from today, the implementation of the said 

O.M. shall be subject to the exclusion of the `creamy layer' in 

accordance with the criteria to be specified by the Government 

of India and not otherwise". 57. In Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1996) 6 SCC 506) 

at page 508) it was noted as follows : 58. In Indra Sawhney No. 2 it was observed as follows: declaration " made by this Court. Xx xx xx 27. As the "creamy layer" in the backward class is to be 

treated "on a par" with the forward classes and is not entitled 

to benefits of reservation, it is obvious that if the "creamy 

layer" is not excluded, there will be discrimination and 

violation of Articles 14 and 16(1) inasmuch as equals (forwards 

and creamy layer of backward classes) cannot be treated 

unequally . Again, non-exclusion of creamy layer will also be 

violative of Articles 14 , 16(1) and 16(4) of the Constitution of 

India since unequals (the creamy layer) cannot be treated as 

equals , that is to say, equal to the rest of the backward class. These twin aspects of discrimination are specifically elucidated 

in the judgment of Sawant, J. where the learned Judge stated 

as follows: (SCC p. 553, para 520) 

"To continue to confer upon such advanced sections special 

benefits, would amount to treating equals unequally. Secondly, 

to rank them with the rest of the backward classes would 

amount to treating the unequals equally." Thus, any executive or legislative action refusing to exclude 

the creamy layer from the benefits of reservation will be 

violative of Articles 14 and 16(1) and also of Article 16(4). We 

shall examine the validity of Sections 3, 4 and 6 in the light of 

the above principle. Xx xx xx 64. The Preamble to the Constitution of India emphasises the 

principle of equality as basic to our Constitution. In Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala it was ruled that even 

constitutional amendments which offended the basic structure 

of the Constitution would be ultra vires the basic structure. Sikri, C.J. laid stress on the basic features enumerated in the 

Preamble to the Constitution and said that there were other 

basic features too which could be gathered from the 

constitutional scheme (para 506-A of SCC). Equality was one 

of the basic features referred to in the Preamble to our 

Constitution. Shelat and Grover, JJ. also referred to the basic 

rights referred to in the Preamble. They specifically referred to 

equality (paras 520 and 535-A of SCC). Hegde and Shelat, JJ. also referred to the Preamble (paras 648, 652). Ray, J. (as he 

then was) also did so (para 886). Jaganmohan Reddy, J. too 

referred to the Preamble and the equality doctrine (para 1159). Khanna, J. accepted this position (para 1471). Mathew, J. referred to equality as a basic feature (para 1621). Dwivedi, J. (paras 1882, 1883) and Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) (see 

para 2086) accepted this position. 65. What we mean to say is that Parliament and the 

legislature in this country cannot transgress the basic feature 

of the Constitution, namely, the principle of equality enshrined 

in Article 14 of which Article 16(1) is a facet. Whether the 

creamy layer is not excluded or whether forward castes get 

included in the list of backward classes , the position will be 

the same, namely, that there will be a breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the Constitution. The 

non-exclusion of the creamy layer or the inclusion of forward 

castes in the list of backward classes will, therefore, be totally 

illegal. Such an illegality offending the root of the Constitution 

of India cannot be allowed to be perpetuated even by 

constitutional amendment. The Kerala Legislature is, 

therefore, least competent to perpetuate such an illegal 


discrimination. What even Parliament cannot do, the Kerala 

Legislature cannot achieve." 59. Though in M. Nagaraj's case (supra) some observations of 

general nature have been made so far as the applicability of 

the principles to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are 

concerned, really that case did not concern with Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Similar is the position here. The 

focus on the identity test in M. Nagaraj's case (supra) is 

unexceptionable. At paras 80 and 110, it was noted as follows: 60. There is an interesting article by an author dealing with 

Affirmative Action which reads as follows: 61. It has been rightly observed in Indra Sawhney No. 2 

(supra) whether creamy layer is not excluded or whether 

forward classes can be excluded in the list of backward 

classes, the position would be the same and there will be 

breach not only of Article 14 but of the basic structure of the 

Constitution. As was rightly observed in the said case, non 

exclusion of the creamy layer or inclusion of forward castes in 

the lists of backward classes will be totally illegal. The illegality 

offends the roots and foundation of the Constitution and 

cannot be allowed to be perpetuated. 62. In Nair Service Society 's case (supra) this Court observed 

as follows: 63. In our view, even non exclusion of the creamy layer for 


the purpose of admission to the educational institutions 

cannot be countenanced. It is inconceivable that a person who 

belongs to the creamy layer is socially and educationally 

backward. The backward status vanishes when somebody 

becomes part of the creamy layer. 64. In Vasant Kumar 's case (supra) it was aptly described 

that the benefits of reservation are snatched away by the top 

creamy layer of the backward classes and this has to be 

avoided at any cost. By inclusion of the creamy layer or in 

other words non inclusion thereof a fresh lease of life to those 

who should have been left out is given. Their continuance 

would mean keeping weakest amongst the weak always weak 

and leaving the fortunate ones to enjoy the benefits. If the 

ultimate aim is a casteless and classless society in line with 

the dream of the Constitution framers that has to be chewed 

out. As Father of the Nation had once said if the caste system 

as we know is an anchronism, then it must go. There is a 

feeling and it cannot be said without reason that reservation 

hits at the root of this belief and instead of its obliteration 


there is perceivable perpetuation. It is true that obliteration 

cannot be done immediately or within a short span of time but 

that is no answer to the lack of seriousness in seeking 

obliteration. 65. In Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) the following observations 

on the question of giving priority over reservation are of 

significance. It was held: Reservation which excludes from consideration all those 

persons falling outside the specially favoured groups, 

irrespective of merits and qualifications, is much more positive 

and drastic a discrimination - albeit to achieve the same end 

of qualitative equality - but unless strictly and narrowly 

tailored to a compelling constitutional mandate, it is unlikely 

to qualify as a benign discrimination. Unlike in the case of 

other affirmative action programmes, backwardness by itself is 

not sufficient to warrant reservation. What qualifies for 

reservation is backwardness which is the result of identified 

past discrimination and which is comparable to that of the 

Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Reservation is a 

remedial action specially addressed to the ill effects stemming 

from historical discrimination. To ignore this vital distinction 

between affirmative action short of reservation and reservation 

by a predetermined quota as a remedy for past inequities is to 

ignore the special characteristic of the constitutional grant of 


power specially addressed to the constitutionally recognised 

backwardness. xx xx xx 319. Reservation should be avoided except in extreme 

cases of acute backwardness resulting from prior 

discrimination as in the case of the Scheduled Castes and the 

Scheduled Tribes and other classes of persons in comparable 

positions. In all other cases, preferential treatment short of 

reservation can be adopted. Any such action, though in some 

respects discriminatory, is permissible on the basis of a 

legitimate classification rationally related to the attainment of 

equality in all its aspects. n the final analysis, poverty which is the ultimate 

result of inequities and which is the immediate cause and 

effect of backwardness has to be eradicated not merely by 

reservation as aforesaid, but by free medical aid, free 

elementary education, scholarships for higher education and 

other financial support, free housing, self- employment and 

settlement schemes, effective implementation of land reforms, 

strict and impartial operation of the law-enforcing machinery, 

industrialization, construction of roads, bridges, culverts, 

canals, markets, introduction of transport, free supply of 

water, electricity and other ameliorative measures particularly 

in areas densely populated by backward classes of citizens. (underlined for emphasis) 66. Following observations in M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore (AIR 1963 SC 649) are also relevant: 67. To similar effect is the view expressed in K.C. Vasanth 

Kumar 's case (supra) at para 150: It has also been noted as follows: (underlined for emphasis) 68. Lengthy arguments have been advanced as to the 

seriousness in identifying the backward classes. On the basis 

of Indra Sawhney No.1's judgment, the Government of India 

issued orders in respect of reservations of appointments or on 

posts under the Government of India in favour of backward 

classes of citizens. It was the subject matter of challenge in 


Indra Sawhney No.1. In its judgment dated 16.11.1992 this 

Court directed the Government to constitute a permanent 

body by 15.3.1993 for entertaining and examining and 

recommending upon requests made for inclusion or 

complaints of over inclusion and under inclusion in the lists of 

backward classes of citizens. 69. Constituent Assembly Debates 1951 have also relevance 

for adjudicating the controversy. The following portion needs 

to be extracted: 70. Parliamentary Standing Committee Report at paras 36, 

37 and 46 read as follows: 71. One of the petitioners "Youth for Equality" had filed a 

representation before the Parliamentary Committee giving 


certain important data. Relevant portions read as follows: 74. Important provisions are Sections 9 and 10 which read 

as follows: section (1) of Section 9, have all the powers of a civil court 

trying a suit and in particular, in respect of the following 

matters, namely:- (a) summoning and enforcing the 

attendance of any person from any part of India and 

examining him on oath; 75. A periodic revision of the lists by the Central Government 

is a statutory mandate. Petitioners have highlighted that there 


is no exclusion and on the other hand there has been 

inclusion. On the question of castes enumeration it is 

emphasized that 1931 Census was not the basis for 

identification of other backward classes. In fact the central 

OBC List is not drawn up on the basis of 1931 Census. Each 

State has different modalities for identification. Only for the 

purpose of quantum the population provides a foundation. 76. It needs no emphasis that if ultimately and indisputably 

the constitutional goal is the casteless and classless society, 

there has to be more effective implementation of the Backward 

Classes Act. The exercise required to be undertaken under 

Section 11 of the said Act is not intended to be a routine 

exercise and also not an exercise in futility. It has to be not 

only effective but also result oriented. The petitioners have 

highlighted the lack of seriousness of the Government in 

carrying out the exercise. Voluminous datas have been 

brought on record in this regard. With reference to the reports 

of the Commission, learned counsel for the respondents on the 

other hand have stressed on the fact that the Commission has 


been working with all sincerity and with the object of 

effectively implementing the Backward Classes Act. One 

thing needs to be noted here. Concrete data about the number 

of backward classes in the country does not appear to be 

available. The survey conducted by the National Sample 

Survey reveals that the percentage is not 52% as is highlighted 

by the respondents. 77. Section 2(g) of the Act is relevant in this regard. It reads 

as follows: 78. At this juncture, it is to be noted that the Backward 

Classes Act in order to be wholly functional mandates 

determination by the Central Government of the backward 

classes for whom the Statute is intended. Undisputedly, such 

determination has not been done. The plea is that for more 

than half a century enough attention has not been given for 

the benefit of the other backward classes in the matter of 


admissions to higher educational institutions. That cannot be 

a ground to act with hurry and with un-determined datas. It 

may be as rightly contended by learned counsel for the 

respondents that the percentage can certainly be not less than 

27%. But that is no answer to the important question as to the 

identity test. In the background loom the socially and 

economically backward class of citizens. Poverty knows no 

caste. Poor has no caste. It is an unfortunate class. It is a 

matter of common knowledge that the institution of caste is a 

peculiarity of Indian institution when there is considerable 

controversy amongst the scholars as to how the caste system 

originated in this country. Originally, there were four main 

castes known as Varnas . But gradually castes and sub-castes 

multiplied as the social fabric expanded with the absorption of 

different groups of people who belong to various cults and 

professing different religious faiths. The caste system in its 

earlier stage was quite elastic but in course of time it gradually 

hardened into a rigid framework based upon heredity. The 

inevitable result was social inequality. At some point of time 

occupation was the background for determination of castes. May be, at some point of time it depended on the income of the 

individual. But it appears to have taken disastrous turn with 

difference of status of various castes. But passage of time 

shows that the occupational label has lost much of its 

significance. But at the same time, the poor and down 

trodden who belong to the caste of their own were the 

founders of poor. In Indra Sawhney No.1 this factor was 

noticed. 79. It is said that one must take life in ones stride, let today 

embrace the past with remembrance and the future with 

longing. 80. Don't look for the path far away, the path exists under 

your feet. 81. What is past and what cannot be prevented should not 

be grieved for. 82. With reference to the Office Memorandum which provides 


for preference in favour of "poorer sections" over other 

members of the backward classes, the expression was held to 

be relatable to those who are socially and economically more 

backward. The use of the word `poorer' in the context was held 

to be a measure of the social backwardness. It is therefore 

unmistakenly recognized that economic backwardness is a 

factor which can never be lost sight of. There are only two 

families in the world; the haves and the have nots said Miquel 

De Cervantes Don Qutxote de ta Mancha. Tolstoy has 

emphatically said "We will do anything for the poor man 

anything but get of his back" (quoted in Huntington 

Philanthrophy and Morality). 83. William Cobbett had said "to be poor and independent is 

very nearly an impossibility. (See His book `Advise to Young 

Men'). We cannot turn Nelson's eye to the poor, those covered 

by all encompassing expression "economically backward 

classes". 84. Should this class of people be kept out of the mainstream 


of governmental priorities and policies because they belong to 

a particular caste? As noted above, the poor have no caste. A 

person belonging to a higher caste should not be made to 

suffer for what his forefathers had done several generations 

back. 85. Franklin D Roosevelt in a speech in 1940 had said "It is 

an unfortunate human failing that a full pocket book often 

groans more loudly than an empty stomach". The haves and 

the have nots have to co-exist. If the creamy layer has to be 

excluded the economically backward classes have to be 

included. That would be social balancing and that would be 

giving true meaning of the objectives of the Constitution. Social empowerment cannot be and is certainly not a measure 

for only socially and educationally backward classes. It also 

has to be for the socially and economically backward classes. Unless this balance, which is very delicate, is maintained the 

system inevitably will develop a crack and this crack may after 

a certain point of time be difficult to be joined. Instead of 

lightening the society from castes or classes it will be over 


burdened and a point of time may come when we shall not be 

able to bear the burden any further. Timely steps in this 

regard will save the Indian society and democracy from a 

catastrophe of collapse because of something which the 

Constitution wants to obliterate. 86. On the question of time period for the reservation, it is 

submitted that length of the leap to be provided depends 

upon the gap to be filled. It is fairly accepted by learned 

counsel for the respondents that as and when castes reach a 

higher level it is to be excluded from the zone of consideration. It is further submitted that traditional occupation is being 

pursued by persons belonging to some castes and the system 

still subsists and has not broken down. In the absence of 

alternative occupation which may not be lucrative, the persons 

who used to previously carry on the traditional occupation 

find it difficult to take up any other occupation. 87. It has been averred that consequent to several efforts, 

India has made enormous progress in terms of increase in 


institutions, teachers and students in elementary education. But despite all the efforts large population of the children in 

the country still remain out of school. 88. One of the contentions is that by passage of time 

prolonged reservation becomes illicit. In Motor General 

Traders and Anr. v. State of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. (1984 

(1) SCC 222) following observations were made: 89. In N.M. Thomas 's case (supra) the parameters of various 

clauses of Article 16 were highlighted as follows: (supra) gives an illustration of the working of the principle of 

equality of opportunity: 90. `Equality' and `excellence' are two conflicting claims 

difficult to be reconciled. The Constitution, in order to ensure 

true equality provides for special treatment to socially and 


educationally backward classes of citizens which is obviously 

desirable for providing social justice, though at the cost of 

merit. However, the Constitution does not provide at all for 

`institutional reservation.' Therefore, it's constitutionality is to 

be judged on the touchstone of Article 14. A large number of 

cases cropped up in this area concerning the institutional 

preference for admission into postgraduate medical education 

and super specialties. The judiciary came forward and laid 

down detailed principles covering the need of such preference 

and to limit the extent of such reservation in view of the 

importance of merit in the context of national interest and 

international importance of universal excellence in super 

specialties. 91. It is to be noted that the foundation for fixing 27% 

appears to be the view that 52% of the population belong to 

OBC. There is no supportable data for this proposition. In fact, 

different Commissions at different points of time have different 

figures. It is the stand of the respondents that no Commission 

has fixed the percentage below 52% and, therefore, there is 


nothing wrong in fixing the percentage at 27%. This is not the 

correct approach. It may be that in no case the percentage of 

persons belonging to OBC is less than 27% but supposing in a 

given case considering the fact that the actual percentage is 

40% a figure less than 27% should have been fixed. The 

Commission set out pursuant to the directions of this Court 

seems to have somewhat acted on the petitions filed by the 

people claiming exclusion or inclusion. That was not the real 

purpose of this Court's decision to direct appointment of 

Commission. The very purpose was to identify the classes. This was the exercise which was to be undertaken apart from 

considering the applications for inclusion or exclusion as the 

case may be. As has been conceded at the beginning of the 

case affirmative action is not under challenge. Affirmative 

action is nothing but a crucial component of social justice in 

the constitutional dispensation but at the same time it has to 

be kept in view that the same does not infringe the principles 

of equality of which it is a part and/or unreasonably restraint 

or restrict other fundamental freedoms and that it does not 

violate the basic structure of the Constitution. 92. It needs no emphasis that Articles 15(4) , 15(5) and 16(4) have to comply with the requirements of Article 14 and the 

discipline imposed in several other provisions like Articles 

15(4)(a) and 15(4)(b) , though, they form a part of the equality 

concept, each of which is so found in our Constitution. 93. It is a well settled principle in law that the Court cannot 

read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and 

unambiguous. A statute is an edict of the Legislature. The 

language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of 

legislative intent. 94. Words and phrases are symbols that stimulate mental 

references to referents. The object of interpreting a statute is 

to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it. (See 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. M/s Price 

Waterhouse and Anr. (AIR 1998 SC 74). The intention of the 

Legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, 

which means that attention should be paid to what has been 


said as also to what has not been said. As a consequence, a 

construction which requires for its support, addition or 

substitution of words or which results in rejection of words as 

meaningless has to be avoided. As observed in Crawford v. Spooner (1846 (6) Moore PC 1 ), Courts, cannot aid the 

Legislatures' defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or 

mend, and by construction make up deficiencies which are left 

there. (See The State of Gujarat and Ors. v. Dilipbhai 

Nathjibhai Patel and Anr. (JT 1998 (2) SC 253). It is contrary 

to all rules of construction to read words into an Act unless it 

is absolutely necessary to do so. (See Stock v. Frank Jones 

(Tiptan) Ltd. (1978 1 All ER 948 (HL). Rules of interpretation 

do not permit Courts to do so, unless the provision as it 

stands is meaningless or of doubtful meaning. Courts are not 

entitled to read words into an Act of Parliament unless clear 

reason for it is to be found within the four corners of the Act 

itself. (Per Lord Loreburn L.C. in Vickers Sons and Maxim Ltd. v. Evans (1910) AC 445 (HL), quoted in Jamma Masjid, 

Mercara v. Kodimaniandra Deviah and Ors. (AIR 1962 SC 847). 95. The question is not what may be supposed and has been 

intended but what has been said. "Statutes should be 

construed not as theorems of Euclid". Judge Learned Hand 

said, "but words must be construed with some imagination of 

the purposes which lie behind them". (See Lenigh Valley Coal 

Co. v. Yensavage 218 FR 547). The view was re-iterated in Union of India and Ors. v. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem 

Vasco De Gama (AIR 1990 SC 981). 96. In D.R. Venkatchalam and Ors. etc. v. Dy. Transport 

Commissioner and Ors. etc. (AIR 1977 SC 842), it was 

observed that Courts must avoid the danger of a priori 

determination of the meaning of a provision based on their 

own pre-conceived notions of ideological structure or scheme 

into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fitted. They are not entitled to usurp legislative function under the 

disguise of interpretation. 97. While interpreting a provision the Court only interprets 

the law and cannot legislate it. If a provision of law is misused 


and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the 

legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary. (See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. v. Popular Trading 

Company, Ujjain (2000 (5) SCC 511). The legislative casus 

omissus cannot be supplied by judicial interpretative process. 98. Two principles of construction - one relating to casus 

omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a 

whole - appear to be well settled. Under the first principle a 

casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the 

case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the 

four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus 

omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all 

the parts of a statute or section must be construed together 

and every clause of a section should be construed with 

reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the 

construction to be put on a particular provision makes a 

consistent enactment of the whole statute. This would be more 

so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to 

manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have 


been intended by the Legislature. "An intention to produce an 

unreasonable result", said Danackwerts, L.J. in Artemiou v. Procopiou (1966 1 QB 878), "is not to be imputed to a statute 

if there is some other construction available". Where to apply 

words literally would "defeat the obvious intention of the 

legislature and produce a wholly unreasonable result" we 

must "do some violence to the words" and so achieve that 

obvious intention and produce a rational construction. (Per 

Lord Reid in Luke v. IRC (1963 AC 557) where at p. 577 he 

also observed: "this is not a new problem, though our 

standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges". 99. It is then true that, "when the words of a law extend not 

to an inconvenience rarely happening, but due to those which 

often happen, it is good reason not to strain the words further 

than they reach, by saying it is casus omissus, and that the 

law intended quae frequentius accidunt." "But," on the other 

hand, "it is no reason, when the words of a law do enough 

extend to an inconvenience seldom happening, that they 

should not extend to it as well as if it happened more 


frequently, because it happens but seldom" (See Fenton v. Hampton (1858) XI Moore, P.C. 347). A casus omissus ought 

not to be created by interpretation, save in some case of strong 

necessity. Where, however, a casus omissus does really occur, 

either through the inadvertence of the legislature, or on the 

principle quod semel aut bis existit praeterunt legislatores 

(legislators says pass over that which happens only once or 

twice), the rule is that the particular case, thus left unprovided 

for, must be disposed of according to the law as it existed 

before such statute - Casus omissus et oblivioni datus 

dispositioni communis juris relinquitur; "a casus omissus," 100. The golden rule for construing wills, statutes, and, in 

fact, all written instruments has been thus stated: "The 

grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered 

to unless that would lead to some absurdity or some 

repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, 


in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the 

words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity and 

inconsistency, but no further" (See Grey v. Pearson (1857 (6) 

H.L. Cas. 61). The latter part of this "golden rule" must, 

however, be applied with much caution. "if," remarked Jervis, 

C.J., "the precise words used are plain and unambiguous in 

our judgment, we are bound to construe them in their 

ordinary sense, even though it lead, in our view of the case, to 

an absurdity or manifest injustice. Words may be modified or 

varied where their import is doubtful or obscure. But we 

assume the functions of legislators when we depart from the 

ordinary meaning of the precise words used, merely because 

we see, or fancy we see, an absurdity or manifest injustice 

from an adherence to their literal meaning" (See Abley v. Dale 

11, C.B. 378). 101. Classifications on the basis of castes in the long run has 

tendency of inherently becoming pernicious. Therefore, the 

test of reasonableness has to apply. When the object is 


elimination of castes and not perpetuation to achieve the goal 

of casteless society and a society free from discrimination of 

castes judicial review within the permissible limits is not ruled 

out. But at the same time compelling State interest can be 

considered while assessing backwardness. The impact of 

poverty on backwardness cannot be lost sight of. Economic 

liberation and freedom are also important. In Nagaraj's case 

(supra) it was inter alia observed as follows: are not constitutional requirements. They are not implicit in 

clauses (1) and (4) of Article 16. They are not constitutional 

limitations. They are concepts derived from service 

jurisprudence. They are not constitutional principles. They are 

not axioms like, secularism, federalism, etc. Obliteration of 

these concepts or insertion of these concepts does not change 

the equality code indicated by Articles 14 , 15 and 16 of the 

Constitution. Clause (1) of Article 16 cannot prevent the State 

from taking cognizance of the compelling interests of 

Backward Classes in the society. Clauses (1) and (4) of Article 

16 are restatements of the principle of equality under Article 14. Clause (4) of Article 16 refers to affirmative action by way 

of reservation. Clause (4) of Article 16 , however, states that the 

appropriate Government is free to provide for reservation in 

cases where it is satisfied on the basis of quantifiable data 


that Backward Class is inadequately represented in the 

services. Therefore, in every case where the State decides to 

provide for reservation there must exist two circumstances, 

namely, "backwardness" and "inadequacy of representation". As stated above, equity, justice and efficiency are variable 

factors. These factors are context-specific. There is no fixed 

yardstick to identify and measure these three factors, it will 

depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. These 

are the limitations on the mode of the exercise of power by the 

State. None of these limitations have been removed by the 

impugned amendments. If the State concerned fails to identify 

and measure backwardness, inadequacy and overall 

administrative efficiency then in that event the provision for 

reservation would be invalid. These amendments do not alter 

the structure of Articles 14 , 15 and 16 (equity code). The 

parameters mentioned in Article 16(4) are retained. Clause (4-

A) is derived from clause (4) of Article 16. Clause (4-A) is 

confined to SCs and STs alone. Therefore, the present case 

does not change the identity of the Constitution. The word 

"amendment" connotes change. The question is--whether the 

impugned amendments discard the original Constitution. It 

was vehemently urged on behalf of the petitioners that the 

Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates that the 

impugned amendments have been promulgated by Parliament 

to overrule the decisions of this Court. We do not find any 

merit in this argument. Under Article 141 of the Constitution 

the pronouncement of this Court is the law of the land. The 

judgments of this Court in Virpal Singh, Ajit Singh (I), Ajit 

Singh (II) and Indra Sawhney were judgments delivered by this 

Court which enunciated the law of the land. It is that law 

which is sought to be changed by the impugned constitutional 

amendments. The impugned constitutional amendments are 

enabling in nature. They leave it to the States to provide for 

reservation. It is well settled that Parliament while enacting a 

law does not provide content to the "right". The content is 

provided by the judgments of the Supreme Court. If the 

appropriate Government enacts a law providing for reservation 

without keeping in mind the parameters in Article 16(4) and Article 335 then this Court will certainly set aside and strike 


down such legislation. Applying the "width test", we do not 

find obliteration of any of the constitutional limitations. Applying the test of "identity", we do not find any alteration in 

the existing structure of the equality code. As stated above, 

none of the axioms like secularism, federalism, etc. which are 

overarching principles have been violated by the impugned 

constitutional amendments. Equality has two facets-- "formal 

equality" and "proportional equality". Proportional equality is 

equality "in fact" whereas formal equality is equality "in law". Formal equality exists in the rule of law. In the case of 

proportional equality the State is expected to take affirmative 

steps in favour of disadvantaged sections of the society within 

the framework of liberal democracy. Egalitarian equality is 

proportional equality. xx xx xx 107. It is important to bear in mind the nature of 

constitutional amendments. They are curative by nature. Article 16(4) provides for reservation for Backward Classes in 

cases of inadequate representation in public employment. Article 16(4) is enacted as a remedy for the past historical 

discriminations against a social class. The object in enacting 

the enabling provisions like Articles 16(4) , 16(4-A) and 16(4-B) is that the State is empowered to identify and recognise the 

compelling interests. If the State has quantifiable data to show 

backwardness and inadequacy then the State can make 

reservations in promotions keeping in mind maintenance of 

efficiency which is held to be a constitutional limitation on the 

discretion of the State in making reservation as indicated by Article 335. As stated above, the concepts of efficiency, 

backwardness, inadequacy of representation are required to 

be identified and measured. That exercise depends on 

availability of data. That exercise depends on numerous 

factors. It is for this reason that enabling provisions are 

required to be made because each competing claim seeks to 

achieve certain goals. How best one should optimise these 


conflicting claims can only be done by the administration in 

the context of local prevailing conditions in public 

employment. This is amply demonstrated by the various 

decisions of this Court discussed hereinabove. Therefore, there 

is a basic difference between "equality in law" and "equality in 

fact" (see Affirmative Action by William Darity). If Articles 16(4-

A) and 16(4-B) flow from Article 16(4) and if Article 16(4) is an 

enabling provision then Articles 16(4-A) and 16(4-B) are also 

enabling provisions. As long as the boundaries mentioned in Article 16(4) , namely, backwardness, inadequacy and 

efficiency of administration are retained in Articles 16(4-A) and 16(4-B) as controlling factors, we cannot attribute 

constitutional invalidity to these enabling provisions. However, 

when the State fails to identify and implement the controlling 

factors then excessiveness comes in, which is to be decided on 

the facts of each case. In a given case, where excessiveness 

results in reverse discrimination, this Court has to examine 

individual cases and decide the matter in accordance with law. This is the theory of "guided power". We may once again 

repeat that equality is not violated by mere conferment of 

power but it is breached by arbitrary exercise of the power 

conferred". 102. In Minerva Mills Ltd. v. Union of India (1980) 3 SCC 625) it was observed as follows: 103. The view was affirmed in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and Ors. v. State of Karnataka and Ors. (2002 (8) SCC 481) 104. It has been highlighted that Articles 15(4) and 15(5) are 


irreconcilable. It is pointed out that Article 30 is not intended 

to pamper any class of people, but is intended to assure 

minorities regarding the right to establish. In that sense, Article 19(1)(g) is applicable. The said right is an inalienable 

and sacrosanct right. According to Mr. Venugopal, Article 

15(5) carved out an area from Article 15(4). Article 29(2) has to 

be read into Article 15(5) as Articles 15(4) and 15(5) operated 

side by side. As a result of Article 15(5) by special provision 

minorities unaided rights are excluded. Article 30 does not 

relate to any special right for protection against majority and it 

cannot be termed to be any higher right and, therefore, Article 

19(1)(g) restriction is not there. The object is not to create 

inequality. 105. It is pointed out that both Articles 15(4) and 15(5) begin 

with non obstante provision. Article 15(5) is a later 

introduction. It is stated that Article 15(1) has to prevail over Article 15(4) and the right given to certain class of people in Article 15(4) gets eliminated because of Article 15(5). 106. Provisions of the Constitution have to be read 

harmoniously and no part can be treated to be redundant. In 

our considered view both the provisions operate in different 

areas though there may be some amount of overlapping but 

that does not in any way lead to the conclusion that Article 

15(5) takes away what is provided in Article 15(4). 107. A construction which reduces the statute to a 

futility has to be avoided. A statute or any enacting provision 

therein must be so construed as to make it effective and 

operative on the principle expressed in the maxim ut res magis 

valeat quam pereat i.e. a liberal construction should be put 

upon written instruments, so as to uphold them, if possible, 

and carry into effect the intention of the parties. [See Broom's 

Legal Maxims (10th Edn.), p. 361, Craies on Statutes (7th 

Edn.), p. 95 and Maxwell on Statutes (11th Edn.). 108. A statute is designed to be workable and the 

interpretation thereof by a court should be to secure that 


object unless crucial omission or clear direction makes that 

end unattainable. (See Whitney v. IRC (1926 AC 37) at p. 52 

referred to in CIT v. S. Teja Singh ( AIR 1959 SC 352) and 

Gursahai Saigal v. CIT (AIR 1963 SC 1062). 109. The courts will have to reject that construction 

which will defeat the plain intention of the legislature even 

though there may be some inexactitude in the language used. (See Salmon v. Duncombe (1886) 11AC 627 at p.634, Curtis v. Stovin (1889) 22 QBD 513) referred to in S. Teja Singh case .) 110. If the choice is between two interpretations, the 

narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose 

of the legislation, we should avoid a construction which would 

reduce the legislation to futility, and should rather accept the 

bolder construction, based on the view that Parliament would 

legislate only for the purpose of bringing about an effective 

result. (See Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries (1940 

(3) All ER 549) referred to in Pye v. Minister for Lands for NSW 

(1954) 3 All ER 514. The principles indicated in the said cases 


were reiterated by this Court in Mohan Kumar Singhania v. Union of India (1992 Supp (1) SCC 594). 111. The statute must be read as a whole and one 

provision of the Act should be construed with reference to 

other provisions in the same Act so as to make a consistent 

enactment of the whole statute. 112. The court must ascertain the intention of the 

legislature by directing its attention not merely to the clauses 

to be construed but to the entire statute; it must compare the 

clause with other parts of the law and the setting in which the 

clause to be interpreted occurs. (See R.S. Raghunath v. State 

of Karnataka (1992) 1 SCC 335) Such a construction has the 

merit of avoiding any inconsistency or repugnancy either 

within a section or between two different sections or provisions 

of the same statute. It is the duty of the court to avoid a head- on clash between two sections of the same Act. (See Sultana 

Begum v. Prem Chand Jain 1997 (1) SCC 373.) 113. Whenever it is possible to do so, it must be done to 

construe the provisions which appear to conflict so that they 

harmonise. It should not be lightly assumed that Parliament 

had given with one hand what it took away with the other. 114. The provisions of one section of the statute cannot be 

used to defeat those of another unless it is impossible to effect 

reconciliation between them. Thus a construction that reduces 

one of the provisions to a "useless lumber" or "dead letter" is 

not a harmonized construction. To harmonise is not to 

destroy. 115. The Constitution of India is not intended to be 

static. It is by its very nature dynamic. It is a living and 

organic thing. It is an instrument which has greatest value to 

be construed. "Ut Res Valeat Potius Quam Pereat" (the 

construction should be preferred which makes the machinery 

workable). Our Constitution reflects the beliefs and political 

aspirations of those who had framed it. It is therefore desirable 


that while considering the question as to whether 27% fixed 

for the other backward classes to be maintained without 

definite data the rights of those who belong to the unfortunate 

categories of other economic backward classes deserve to be 

concerned, else there shall be no definite determination of 

number of other backward classes. While fixing the measure 

for creamy layer it would not be difficult also to fix the norms 

for the socially and economically backward classes rather the 

latter exercise would be easier to undertake. 116. In Indra Sawhney's No.1 the desirability of excluding 

some posts from the zone of reservation was highlighted. It 

was also emphasized that periodic review of policy of 

reservation was imperative. It was inter-alia observed as 

follows: 3. (a) A caste can be and quite often is a social class in 

India. If it is backward socially, it would be a backward class 

for the purposes of Article 16(4). Among non-Hindus, there 

are several occupational groups, sets and denominations, 

which for historical reasons are socially backward. They too 

represent backward, social collectivities for the purposes of Article 16(4). (b) Neither the Constitution nor the law prescribes the 

procedure or method of identification of backward classes. Nor 

is it possible or advisable for the court to lay down any such 

procedure or method. It must be left to the authority 

appointed to identify. It can adopt such method/procedure as 

it thinks convenient and so long as its survey covers the entire 

populace, no objection can be taken to it. Identification of the 


backward classes can certainly be done with reference to 

castes among, and alongwith, other occupational groups, 

classes and sections of people. One can start the process 

either with occupational groups or with castes or with some 

other groups. Thus one can start the process with castes, 

wherever they are found, apply the criteria (evolved for 

determining backwardness) and find out whether it satisfy the 

criteria. If it does-what emerges is a "backward class of 

citizens" within the meaning of and for the purposes of Article 

16(4). Similar process can be adopted in the case of other 

occupational groups, communities and classes so as to cover 

the entire populace. The central idea and overall objective 

should be to consider all available groups, sections and 

classes in society. Since caste represents an existing, 

identifiable social group/class encompassing an overwhelming 

minority of the country's population, one can well begin with it 

and then go to other groups, sections and classes. (c) It is not correct to say that the backward class of citizens 

contemplated in Article 16(4) is the same as the socially and 

educationally backward classes referred to in Article 15(4). It 

is much wider. The accent in Article 16(4) is on social 

backwardness. Of course, social, educational and economic 

backwardness are closely inter-twined in the Indian context. (d) `Creamy layer' can be, and must be excluded. (e) It is not necessary for a class to be designated as a 

backward class that it is situated similarly to the Scheduled 

Castes/Scheduled Tribes. f) The adequacy of representation of a particular class in 

the services under the State is a matter within the subjective 

satisfaction of the appropriate Government. The judicial 

scrutiny in that behalf is the same as in other matters within 

the subjective satisfaction of an authority. (4) (a) A backward class of citizens cannot be identified only 

and exclusively with reference to economic criteria. (b) It is, of course, permissible for the Government or other 

authority to identify a backward class of citizens on the basis 

of occupation cum income, without reference to caste, if it is 

so advised. 5. There is no constitutional bar to classify the backward 

classes of citizens into backward and more backward 

categories. 6. (a) and (b) The reservations contemplated in clause (4) of Article 16 should not exceed 50%. While 50% shall be the rule, 

it is necessary not to put out of consideration certain extra 

ordinary situation inherent in the great diversity of this 

country and the people. 117. In Vasanth Kumar 's case (supra) at para 2(4), it was 

observed as follows: 118. In State of A.P. & Anr. v. P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595) 

at para 15, it was observed as follows: 119. Significant observations were made in Kumari K.S. 

Jayasree and Anr. v. The State of Kerala and Anr. (1976 (3) 

SCC 730 ). At para 22 it was noted as follows: 120. Further, in Minor A. Peeriakaruppan, Sobha Joseph v. State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. (1971 (1) SCC 38) at para 29 it 

was observed as follows: 121. It has been highlighted that the Act has been made 

applicable to Central Educational Institutions established, 

maintained or aided by the Central Government. Central 

Educational Institutions have been defined in Section 2(d) as 

follows: 122. It is pointed out that there cannot be any reservations 

in respect of super specialities and institutions imparting 

education of highly complex subjects. The example of All India 

Institute of Medical Sciences has been given. It has been 

pointed out that its status as an institution for super 

speciality has been judicially recognized. It needs to be noted 

that in terms of Section 4(b) of the Act certain educational 

institutions have been excluded from the operation of the Act. 123. The Act has been made inapplicable to them. It is to be 

noted that in the said provision, institutions of research, 

institutions of excellence, institutions of national and strategic 

importance have been specified in the Schedule to the Act . The proviso permits the Central Government as and when 

considered necessary to amend the Schedule. In other words, 

on an appropriate case being presented and established before 

the Central Government that the Institution is of excellence 


and/or a research institute and/or an institution of national 

and strategic importance, the Central Government can amend 

the Schedule and include such institution in the Schedule. In 

other words, it is permissible for the petitioners and anybody 

else to highlight to the Government about the desirability to 

include an Institution in the Schedule of the Act . 124. One of the major issues highlighted by Mr. P.P. Rao was 

that in several cases the matriculation standard of education 

was considered to be the measure for measuring 

backwardness. It is, therefore, submitted that when at least 

half of the persons belonging to a particular caste have 

reached the matriculation level of education, they cannot be 

considered to be educationally backward any longer. It is 

therefore submitted that if that be taken as a yardstick for 

measuring backwardness then the reservation of seats for 

technical education or in higher studies cannot be sustained. It has also been highlighted that the shift of emphasis from 

primary and basic education to higher education is against the 

constitutional mandate making education compulsory in 


terms of Article 21-A of the Constitution. It is not correct to 

contend that in fixing the priorities the Government is the best 

Judge as contended by the respondents. It may be correct in 

matters relating to simple policy decisions but when the 

constitutional mandate is under consideration the underlying 

object has also to be kept in view. In this context reference is 

made to Article 46 of the Constitution. It is in that background 

pointed out by learned counsel for the petitioners that what 

cannot be lost sight of is the fact that is the foundation for 

basic, elementary and primary education. The educational 

backwardness can be obliterated when at least half of the 

persons belonging to a particular caste come up to a 

matriculation level. 125. There is substance in this plea. It is not merely the 

existence of schemes but the effective implementation of the 

schemes that is important. It is to be noted that financial 

constraint cannot be a ground to deny fundamental rights and 

the provision for the schemes and the utilization of the funds 

are also relevant factors. It appears that better coordination 


between the funds provider and the utiliser is necessary. It is 

suggested that putting stress on cut off limit by shifting from 

matriculation to Class XII level education as a benchmark of 

gauging educational backwardness will be a step in the right 

direction. Though as rightly contended by Mr. P.P. Rao that in 

several decisions, for example, M.R. Balaji 's case (supra), 

Balram's case ( supra) and Kumari K.S. Jayasree 's case 

(supra) the secondary education was taken to be the 

benchmark, ground reality cannot be lost sight of that with 

the limited availability of jobs and the spiraling increase in 

population, secondary or matriculation examination can no 

longer be considered to be an appropriate bench mark. It has 

to be at the most graduation. But the question arises whether 

technical education can be included while considering 

educational backwardness. A delicate balancing has to be 

done in this regard. While technical education cannot be the 

sole criteria for gauging educational backwardness it 

definitely will form part of 50 per cent norms fixed by this 

Court. Slightly variable plus or minus would be the 

appropriate standard to gauge educational backwardness. 126. One of the grey areas which have been highlighted by 

learned counsel for the petitioners is that caste is not a 

substitute for class and nevertheless the two terms are not 

synonyms. Much of the argument in this regard is centred 

round the paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra). The same read as under: 127. On a closer reading of the paragraphs it appears that 

this Court took note of the fact that several religions do not 

have any caste. Therefore, the first sentence of para`782 lays 

emphasis to begin somewhere - with some group, class or 

section. It also states that there is no set or recognized method 

and there is no law or other statutory instrument prescribing 

the methodology. In this context, it has also been stated that 

one can well begin with castes which represent explicit 

identifiable social classes or groupings. Therefore, the 


emphasis was on beginning with castes which represent as 

explicit identifiable social classes or grouping. Again in 

paragraph 783, it has been stated that in a vast country like 

India it is simply not practicable to fix the test for identifying 

backward classes. In that background it was held that if the 

real objective is to discover and locate the real backwardness 

and if such backwardness is found in a caste it can be 

considered as backwardness. Similarly if it is found in any 

other group, section or class they too can be treated as 

backward. The intention therefore is clear that if caste is 

found to be backward it can certainly be treated as backward. To give any other meaning would be adding or subtracting to 

what has been specifically stated in the decision. 128. It is also relevant to take note of certain earlier 

decisions referred to in Indra Sawhney No.1 case (supra) 

which throw beacon light on the issue. They are as under: Let us take the 

question of social backwardness first. By what test should it 

be decided whether a particular class is socially backward or 

not? The group of citizens to whom Article 15(4) applies are 

described as "classes of citizens", not as castes of citizens. A 

class, according to the dictionary meaning, shows division of 

society according to status, rank or caste. In the Hindu social 

structure, caste unfortunately plays an important part in 

determining the status of the citizen. Though according to 

sociologists and vedic scholars, the caste system may have 

originally begun on occupational or functional basis, in course 

of time, it became rigid and inflexible. The history of the 

growth of caste system shows that its original functional and 

occupational basis was later over-burdened with 

considerations of purity based on ritual concepts, and that led 


to its ramifications which introduced inflexibility and rigidity. This artificial growth inevitably tended to create a feeling of 

superiority and inferiority, and to foster narrow caste loyalties. Therefore, in dealing with the question as to whether any class 

of citizens is socially backward or not, it may not be irrelevant 

to consider the caste of the said group of citizens. In this 

connection it is, however, necessary to bear in mind that the 

special provision is contemplated for classes of citizens and 

not for individual citizens as such, and so, though the caste of 

the group of citizens may be relevant, its importance should 

not be exaggerated. If the classification of backward classes of 

citizens was based solely on the caste of the citizen, it may not 

always be logical and may perhaps contain the vice of 

perpetuating the castes themselves. xx xx xx

 

 Besides, if the caste of the group of citizens was made the sole 

basis for determining the social backwardness of the said 

group, that test would inevitably break down in relation to 

many sections of Indian society which do not recognise castes 

in the conventional sense known to Hindu society. How is one 

going to decide whether Muslims, Christians or Jains, or even 

Lingayats are socially backward or not? The test of castes 

would be inapplicable to those groups, but that would hardly 

justify the exclusion of these groups in toto from the operation 

of Article 15(4). It is not unlikely that in some States some 

Muslims or Christians or Jains forming groups may be socially 

backward. That is why we think that though castes in relation 

to Hindus may be a relevant factor to consider in determining 

the social backwardness of groups or classes of citizens, it 

cannot be made the sole or the dominant test in that behalf. Social backwardness is on the ultimate analysis the result of 

poverty to a very large extent. The classes of citizens who are 

deplorably poor automatically become socially backward. They 

do not enjoy a status in society and have, therefore, to be 

content to take a backward seat. It is true that social 

backwardness which results from poverty is likely to be 

aggravated by considerations of caste to which the poor 


citizens may belong, but that only shows the relevance of both 

caste and poverty in determining the backwardness of citizens. 2. R. Chitralekha v State of Mysore AIR 1964 SC 1823

 Justice Subba Rao referred to the observations in M.R. 

Balaji v. State of Mysore and observed: 3. Minor P. Rajendran v State of Madras (1968 (2) SCR 787)

"The first challenge is to r. 5 on the ground that it violates Art. 15 of the Constitution. Article 15 forbids discrimination 

against any citizen on the grounds only of religion, race, caste, 

sex, place of birth or any of them. At the same time Art. 15(4) inter alia permits the State to make any special provision for 

the advancement of any socially and educationally backward 

classes of citizens. The contention is that the list of socially 

and educationally backward classes for whom reservation is 

made under r. 5 is nothing but a list of certain castes. Therefore, reservation in favour of certain castes based only on 

caste considerations violates Art. 15(1) , which prohibits 

discrimination on the ground o caste only. Now if the 

reservation in question had been based only on caste and had 

not taken into account the social and educational 

backwardness of the caste in question, it would be violative of Art. 15(1). But it must not be forgotten that a caste is also a 

class of citizens and if the caste as a whole is socially and 

educationally backward reservation can be made in favour of 

such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and 

educationally backward class of citizens within the meaning of Art. 15(4). Reference in this connection may be made to the 

observations of this Court in M. R. Balaji v. State of Mysore ([1963] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 439 at p. 459-460) to the effect that it 

was not irrelevant to consider the caste of a class of citizens in 

determining their social and educational backwardness. It was 

further observed that though the caste of a class of citizens 

may be relevant its importance should not be exaggerated; and 

if classification of backward classes of citizens was based 

solely on the caste of the citizen, it might be open to objection. It is true that in the present cases the list of socially and 

educationally backward classes has been specified by caste. But that does not necessarily mean that caste was the sole 

consideration and that persons belonging to these castes are 

also not a class of socially and educationally backward 

citizens. In its reply, the State of Madras has given the history 

as to how this list of backward classes was made, starting 

from the year 1906 and how the list has been kept upto date 

and necessary amendments made therein. It has also been 

stated that the main criterion for inclusion in the list was the 

social and educational backwardness of the caste based on 

occupations pursued by these castes. Because the members of 

the caste as a whole were found to be socially and 

educationally backward, they were put in the list. The matter 

was finally examined after the Constitution came into force in 

the light of the provisions contained in Art. 15(4). As it was 

found that members of these castes as a whole were 

educationally and socially backward, the list which had been 

coming on from as far back as 1906 was finally adopted for 


purposes of Art. 15(4). In short the case of the State of Madras 

is that the castes included in the list are only a compendious 

indication of the class of people in those castes and these 

classes of people had been put in the list for the purpose of Art. 15(4) because they had been found to be socially and 

educationally backward. This is the position as explained in the Affidavit filed on behalf 

of the State of Madras. On the other hand the only thing 

stated in the petitions is that as the list is based on caste 

alone it is violative of Art. 15(1). In view however of the 

explanation given by the State of Madras, which has not been 

controverted by any rejoinder, it must be accepted that though 

the list shows certain castes, the members of those castes are 

really classes of educationally and socially backward citizens. No attempt was made on behalf of the petitioners/appellant to 

show that any caste mentioned in this list was not 

educationally and socially backward. No such averment was 

made in the affidavit in support of their cases, nor was any 

attempt made to traverse the case put forward on behalf of the 

State of Madras by filing a rejoinder affidavit to show that even 

one of the castes included in the list was not educationally 

and socially backward. In this state of the pleadings, we must 

come to the conclusion that though the list is prepared caste- wise, the castes included therein are as a whole educationally 

and socially backward and therefore the list is not violate of Art. 15. The challenge to r. 5 must therefore fail. 4) State of Andhra Pradesh v P. Sagar (1968 (3) SCR 595)

"In the context in which it occurs the expression "class" means 

a homogeneous section of the people grouped together 

because of certain likenesses or common traits and who are 

identifiable by some common attributes such as status, rank, 

occupation, residence in a locality, race, religion and the like. In determining whether a particular section forms a class, 

caste cannot be excluded altogether. But in the determination 

of a class a test solely based upon the caste or community 


cannot also be accepted. By cl. (1) Art. 15 prohibits the State 

from discriminating against any citizen on grounds only of 

religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. By cl. (3) of Art. 15 the State is, notwithstanding the provision 

contained in cl. (1), permitted to make special provision for 

women and children. By cl. (4) a special provision for the 

advancement of any socially and educationally backward 

classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

Tribes is outside the purview of cl. (1). But cl. (4) is an 

exception to cl. (1). Being an exception, it cannot be extended 

so as in effect to destroy the guarantee of cl. (1). The 

Parliament has by enacting cl. (4) attempted to balance as 

against the right of equality of citizens the special necessities 

of the weaker sections of the people by allowing a provision to 

be made for their advancement. In order that effect may be 

given to cl. (4), it must appear that the beneficiaries of the 

special provision are classes which are backward socially and 

educationally and they are other that the Scheduled Castes 

and Scheduled Tribes, and that the provision made is for their 

advancement." 5. Minor A. Peeriakaruppan (Minor) v. State of T.N. , 

(1971) 1 SCC 38 : found in Section 153-A of the Indian Penal Code, Wassoodew, 

J., observed in Narayan Vasudev v. Emperor AIR 1940 Bomb 379 "In my opinion, the expression `classes of His Majesty's 

subjects' in Section 153-A of the Code is used in restrictive 

sense as denoting a collection of individuals or groups bearing 

a common and exclusive designation and also possessing 

common and exclusive characteristics which may be 

associated with their origin, race or religion, and that the term 

`class' within that section carries with it the idea of numerical 

strength so large as could be grouped in a single homogeneous 

community." 26. In para 10, Chapter V of the Backward Classes 

Commission's Report, it is observed: 27. Finally in para 13, the committee concludes with following 

observations: 28. The validity of the impugned list of backward classes came 

up for consideration before this Court in Rajendran case and 

this is what this Court observed therein: 29. Rajendran case is an authority for the proposition that the 

classification of backward classes on the basis of castes is 

within the purview of Article 15(4) if those castes are shown to 

be socially and educationally backward. No further material 

has been placed before us to show that the reservation for 

backward classes with which we are herein concerned is not 

in accordance with Article 15(4). There is no gainsaying the 

fact that there are numerous castes in this country which are 

socially and educationally backward. To ignore their existence 

is to ignore the facts of life. Hence we are unable to uphold the 

contention that the impugned reservation is not in accordance 

with Article 15(4). But all the same the Government should 

not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered as a 

backward class it should continue to be backward class for all 

times. Such an approach would defeat the very purpose of the 

reservation because once a class reaches a stage of progress 

which some modern writers call as take off stage then 

competition is necessary for their future progress. The 

Government should always keep under review the question of 

reservation of seats and only the classes which are really 

socially and educationally backward should be allowed to have 

the benefit of reservation. Reservation of seats should not be 

allowed to become a vested interest. The fact that candidates 

of backward classes have secured about 50% of the seats in 

the general pool does show that the time has come for a de 

novo comprehensive examination of the question. It must be 

remembered that the Government's decision in this regard is 

open to judicial review." 6. State of A.P. v. U.S.V. Balram , (1972) 1 SCC 660, at 

page 685 : 7. Janki Prasad Parimoo v. State of J&K , (1973) 1 SCC 

420, at page 432 : 25.....Indeed all sectors in the rural areas deserve 

encouragement but whereas the former by their enthusiasm 

for education can get on without special treatment, the latter 

require to be goaded into the social stream by positive efforts 

by the State. That accounts for the raison-d'etre of the 

principle explained in Balaji case which pointed out that 

backward classes for whose improvement special provision 

was contemplated by Article 15(4) must be comparable to 

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who are standing 

examples of backwardness socially and educationally. If those 

examples are steadily kept before the mind the difficulty in 

determining which other classes should be ranked as 

backward classes will be considerably eased." 8. State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas , (1976) 2 SCC 310, at 

page 367 : 9. State of U.P. v. Pradip Tandon , (1975) 1 SCC 267, at 

page 273 : 10. K.S. Jayasree (Kumari) v. State of Kerala , (1976) 3 

SCC 730, at page 733 : 129. In Chitrelekha 's case (supra) it was stated that the caste 

is the starting point. This is subject of course to the 

parameters that if the caste itself satisfies the test of 

backwardness which is implicit and inherent as noted in para 

782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra). In that case caste 

becomes the relevant factor. The view expressed in Chitralekha 's case (supra) was not dissented from in Indra 

Sawhney No.1 (supra). In fact Justice Jeevan Reddy in the 

majority judgment in Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) referred to Chitrelekha 's case (supra) at para 704. As noted above in para 

782 of Indra Sawhney No.1 (supra) it has not been held that 

caste is class. In the said paragraph it has been stated that 


individual survey is out of question since Article 16(4) speaks 

of class protection and not individual protection. In that 

context also it has been said that it does not mean that one 

can wind up the process of identification for the castes. It has 

also been emphasized in the said paragraph that having 

exhausted the castes or simultaneously with it, the authority 

may take up for consideration other occupational groups, 

communities and classes. If caste is a substitute for class, the 

question of any simultaneous consideration of others does not 

arise. Therefore, the Court observed that one may well begin 

with castes if one chooses and then go to other groups, 

sections and classes. If the Court meant to substitute the 

word caste with class the question of going to other classes 

would not arise. 130. Reference may also be made to Akhil Bharatiya Soshit 

Ka
 ramchari Sangh (Railway) v. Union of India (UOI) and Ors . (1981(1) SCC 246) where at para 22 it was noted as follows: 131. Much emphasis has been laid on the use of the word 

`only'. It is to be noted that while the respondents contend that 

where it is demonstrated that caste is not the only 

consideration the permissible provision will operate. Reference was made to Venkataraman 's case (supra). As has 

been rightly contended by learned counsel for the petitioners 

the true effect of the word `only' has been clarified in the 


decision itself. 132. It is unnecessary to decide as it has been contended 

by learned counsel for the petitioners whether the concept of 

strict scrutiny is a measure of judicial scrutiny as highlighted 

by the conditions in India. It is submitted that label is not 

relevant. 133. The ultimate object is the eradication of castes and that 

is the foundation for reservation. While considering the 

method adopted for eradication by adopting the process of 

reservation indirectly the facet of strict scrutiny comes in. The 

strict scrutiny test was applied in the background of Article 19 vis-`-vis compelling State needs. The principle was recognized 

in Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1950 SCR 759). It was inter-alia quoted as follows: 134. Again in State of Madras v. V.G. Row (AIR 1952 SC 196) 

it was observed as follows: 135. At the outset, it may be pointed out that the stand of 

petitioners is that the primary consideration in selection of 

candidates for admission to the higher educational 

institutions must be merit. The object of any rules, which 

may be made for regulating admissions to such institutions 

therefore, must be to secure the best and most meritorious 

students. The national interest and the demand of universal 

excellence may even override the interests of the weaker 

sections. In this context, Krishna Iyer J aptly observed: 136. Thus, the interest of no person, class or region can be 

higher than that of the nation. The philosophy and 

pragmatism of universal excellence through equality of 

opportunity for education and advancement across the nation 

is part of the constitutional creed. It is, therefore, the best and 

most meritorious students that must be selected for admission 

to technical institutions and medical colleges and no citizen 

can be regarded as outsider in the constitutional set-up 

without serious detriment to the `unity and integrity' of the 

nation. The Supreme Court has laid down that so far as 

admissions to post graduate course such as MS, MD and the 

like are concerned, it would be imminently desirable not to 

provide for any reservation based on residence or institutional 

preference. However, a certain percentage of seats are allowed 

to be reserved on the ground of institutional preference. But 

even in this regard, so far as super specialties such as 

neurosurgery and cardiology are concerned there should be no 

reservation at all even on the basis of institutional preference 

and admissions should be granted purely on all-India basis. Further, classification made on the basis of super-specialties 


may serve the interests of the nation better, though interests 

of individual states may to a small extent, be affected. 137. The need of a region or institution cannot prevail at the 

highest scale of specialty where the best skill or talent must be 

hand-picked by selecting them according to capability. At the 

level of Ph.D., M.D. or levels of higher proficiency where 

international measure of talent is made, where losing one 

great scientist or technologist in the making is a national loss, 

the considerations we have expanded upon as important, lose 

their potency. 138. The inevitable conclusion is that the impugned Statute 

can be operative only after excluding the creamy layer from 

identifiable OBCs. There has to be periodic review of the 

classes who can be covered by the Statute. The periodicity 

should be five years. To strike constitutional balance there is 

need for making provision for suitable percentage for socially 

and economically backward classes in the 27% fixed. I 139. To sum up, the conclusions are as follows: By way of illustration it can be indicated that five marks grace 

can be extended to such candidates below the minimum 

eligibility marks fixed for general categories of students. This 

would ensure quality and merit would not suffer. If any seats 

remain vacant after adopting such norms they shall be filled 

up by candidates from general categories. (4) So far as determination of backward classes 

is concerned, a Notification should be issued by the Union of 

India. This can be done only after exclusion of the creamy 

layer for which necessary data must be obtained by the 


Central Government from the State Governments and Union 

Territories. Such Notification is open to challenge on the 

ground of wrongful exclusion or inclusion. Norms must be 

fixed keeping in view the peculiar features in different States 

and Union Territories. (5) There has to be proper identification of Other Backward 

Classes (OBCs.). For identifying backward classes, the 

Commission set up pursuant to the directions of this Court in 

Indra Sawhney No.1 has to work more effectively and not 

merely decide applications for inclusion or exclusion of castes. While determining backwardness, graduation (not technical 

graduation) or professional shall be the standard test 

yardstick for measuring backwardness. (6) To strike the constitutional balance it is necessary and 

desirable to ear-mark certain percentage of seats out of 

permissible limit of 27% for socially and economically 

backward classes. (7) In the Constitution for the purposes of both Articles 15 and 16 , caste is not synonyms with class and this is clear 

from the paragraphs 782 and 783 of Indra Sawhney No.1. However, when creamy layer is excluded from the caste, the 

same becomes an identifiable class for the purpose of Articles 

15 and 16. (8) Stress has to be on primary and secondary education so 

that proper foundation for higher education can be effectively 

laid. (9) So far as the constitutional amendments are concerned: Article 15(5) does not render Article 15(4) inactive or 

inoperative. (10) While interpreting the constitutional provisions, foreign 

decisions do not have great determinative value. They may 

provide materials for deciding the question regarding 

constitutionality. In that sense, the strict scrutiny test is not 

applicable and indepth scrutiny has to be made to decide the 

constitutionality or otherwise, of a statute. (11) If material is shown to the Central Government that the 

Institution deserves to be included in the Schedule, the 

Central Government must take an appropriate decision on the 

basis of materials placed and on examining the concerned 

issues as to whether Institution deserves to be included in the 

Schedule. (12) Challenge relating to private un-aided educational 

institutions has not been examined because no such 

institution has laid any challenge. It is to be noted that the 

petitioners have made submissions in the background of Article 19(6) of the Constitution. Since none of the affected 

institutions have made any challenge we do not propose to 


consider it necessary to express any opinion or decide on the 

question. 140. In view of the above-said conclusions, the writ 

petitions and the Contempt Petition (Civil) No.112/2007 in 

W.P. (C) No.265/2006 are disposed of. ..............................J.

 (Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT)

 ..............................J.

 (C.K. THAKKER)

New Delhi,

April 10, 2008


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO.265 OF 2006

Ashoka Kumar Thakur ....... Petitioner

Versus

Union of India & Ors. ...... Respondents

 WITH

Writ Petition (C) No.269/2006

Writ Petition (C) No.598/2006 Writ Petition (C) No.29/2007 Writ Petition (C) No.35/2007 Writ Petition (C) No.53/2007 Writ Petition (C) No.33/2007 Writ Petition (C) No.313/2007

Writ Petition (C) No.335/2007

Writ Petition (C) No.231/2007

Writ Petition (C) No.425/2007

Writ Petition (C) No.428/2007

Contempt Petition (C) No.112/2007 in Writ Petition (C) No.265/2006


 J U D G M E N T

R. V. Raveendran J. It has been my privilege to read the drafts of the Judgments proposed 

by the learned Chief Justice, learned brothers Pasayat J. and Bhandari J. I 

respectfully agree with them as indicated below : I agree with the learned Chief Justice that OM dated 8.9.1993 of the 

Government of India can be applied for such determination. (D) Whether reservation to an extent of 27% in regard to other backward 

class under Act 5 of 2007 is valid? I agree with the decision of learned Chief Justice that reservation of 27% 

for other backward classes is not illegal. I would however leave open the question whether members belonging to 

other backward classes who get selected in the open competition field on the 

basis of their own merit should be counted against the 27% quota reserved 

for other backward classes under an enactment enabled by Article 15(5) of 

the Constitution. 2. Let me now briefly add a few words on two aspects as indicated 

above. Whether Article 15(5) renders Article 15(4) are in conflict with each other? 3. This Court has held that clause (4) of Article 15 is neither an 

exception nor a proviso to clause (1) of Article 15. Clause (4) has been 

considered to be an instance of classification inherent in clause (1) and an 

emphatic restatement of the principle implicit in clause (1) of Article 15 (see 

: State of Kerala v. N.M. Thomas - 1976 (2) SCC 310, K.C. Vasanth Kumar 

v. State of Karnataka - 1985 Supp. SCC 714 and Indra Sawhney v. Union of 

India - 1992 Supp. (3) SCC 217). Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 15 bars 

discrimination. Clause (1) contains a prohibition that State shall not 

discriminate against any citizen on grounds only on religion, caste, creed, 

sex or birth. Clause (2) declares that no citizen shall, on grounds only of 

religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them be subject to any 

disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to access to shops, 

public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment, or the use of 

wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained 

wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general 


public. Clauses (3) to (5) enable the State to make special provisions in 

specified areas. The words `Nothing in this article' occurring in clauses (3), 

(4) and (5) therefore refer to clauses (1) and (2) of Art. 15. When clause (4) 

starts with those words, it does not obviously refer to clause (3). Similarly 

when clause (5) starts with those words, it does not refer to clauses (3) and 

(4). Clauses (3) (4) and (5) of Article 15 are not to be read as being in 

conflict with each other, or prevailing over each other. Nor does an 

exception made under clause (5) operate as an exception under clause (4). While clauses (4) and (5) may operate independently, they have to be read 

harmoniously. The need for exclusion of creamy layer. 4. Section 3 of Act 5 of 2007 mandates reservation of seats in central 

educational institutions for other backward classes to an extent of 27%. The 

term `other backward classes' is defined as meaning the class or classes of 

citizens who are socially and economically backward, and are so determined 

by the central Government. The Act does not define the term `socially and 

educationally backward classes', nor does it contain any norms or guidelines 

as to how the central Government should determine any class or classes as 


socially and educationally backward, so as to entitle them to the benefit of 

reservation under the Act. The petitioners contend that the Act vests 

unguided power in the executive to pick and choose arbitrarily certain 

classes for the benefit of reservation. The Central Government however 

intends to proceed on the basis that castes which have been identified for the 

benefit of reservations under Article 16(4) by the Mandal Commission with 

the additions thereto made by the National Commission for Backward 

Classes, from time to time, will constitute the socially and educationally 

backward classes for the purpose of availing the benefit of 27% reservation 

under the Act. This again is challenged by the petitioners on the ground that 

identification of any class of citizens as `backward', for the purpose of Article 16(4) , cannot be considered as identification of `socially and 

educationally backward classes of citizens' under Article 15(5). It is pointed 

out that the term `backward classes' in Article 16(4) is much wider than 

`socially and educationally backward classes of citizens' occurring in Article 

15(4) and (5). 5. Article 15(4) provides that nothing in that Article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the 

advancement of any socially and educationally backward class of citizens or 

for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Article 29(2) provides that no 


citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution managed 

by the State or receiving aid out of State funds, on grounds only of religion, 

race, caste, language or any of them. On the other hand, clause (5) of Article 

15 provides that notwithstanding anything contained in that Article or in Article 19(1)(g) , State may make a special provision for advancement of 

socially and educationally backward class of citizens or for Scheduled 

Castes and Scheduled Tribes by providing for reservation relating to 

admission in any educational institution either aided or unaided by the State, 

other than the minority educational institutions referred to in Article 30(1). While clause (4) excluded the application of Article 29(2) , clause (5) does 

not exclude Article 29(2). It is therefore contended that in regard to a law 

made in exercise of power under Article 15(5) , the bar Article 29(2) will 

apply, and if so, there cannot be any affirmative action by way of reservation 

on the ground of caste alone. 6. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that the Constitution 

prohibits any kind of special provision including reservation, merely on the 

ground of caste. The object of the Constitution is to achieve an egalitarian 

society and any attempt to divide the citizens or the society on the ground of 

race, religion or caste should be straightaway rejected. It is submitted that 

the Constitution nowhere recognizes or refers to `caste' (except Scheduled 


Castes and Tribes) as a criterion for conferment of any right or benefit; that 

both clauses (4) and (5) of Article 15 refer to socially and educationally 

backward `classes' and not `castes'; that Constitution has always referred to 

caste in a negative sense, that is to prohibit any discrimination or affirmative 

action on the basis of `caste' - [Vide Article 15(1) and (2) , 16(2) and 29(2)]; that when Constitution discourages caste, it is paradoxical that caste is 

sought to be made the criterion by the State for purposes of making a special 

provision for socially and educationally backward classes. It is submitted 

that there cannot be any special provision for any group of citizens merely 

on the ground that they belong to a particular caste or community (except 

Scheduled Castes and Tribes who are separately mentioned in Articles 

15(4) , 15(5) , 16(4) , 335 , 340 , 346 etc). 7. This Court in a series of decisions commencing from M.R. Balaji v. State of Mysore [1963 Supp. ( 1) SCR 439], R.Chitralekha v. State of Mysore [1964 ( 6) SCR 368], Minor P.Rajendran v. State of Madras [1968 ( 2) SCR 

786], State of Andhra Pradesh v. P.Sagar [1968 ( 3) SCR 595], Janki 

Prasad Parimoo v. State of Jammu & Kashmir [1973 ( 1) SCC 420], State of 

Kerala v. N.M.Thomas [1976 ( 2) SCC 310] and K.C.Vasanth Kumar v. State 

of Karnataka [1985 Supp. SCC 714] has explained what is social and 


educational backwardness. All these decisions have laid down the principle 

that caste cannot be made the sole or dominant test to determine 

backwardness, and any classification determining backwardness only with 

reference to caste will be invalid. These decisions recognized the fact that 

caste is not equated to class and all backwardness, either social or 

educational, is ultimately and primarily due to poverty or economic 

conditions. 8. However, in Rajendran (supra), it was held that if a caste, as a whole, 

is socially and educationally backward then reservation can be made in 

favour of such a caste on the ground that it is a socially and educationally 

backward class within the meaning of Article 15(4). The decision followed 

Balaji and therefore proceeded on the basis that where the extent of social 

and educational backwardness of the caste in question is virtually the same 

as the social and educational backwardness of Scheduled Castes and 

Scheduled Tribes, reservation can be made on the basis of caste itself. In that 

case, it was found as a question of fact that members of certain castes as a 

whole, were socially and educationally backward, and therefore it was held 

that the reservation the basis of caste was permissible in respect of those 

castes. 9. In A.Peeriakaruppan v. Sobha Joseph [1971 (1) SCC 38], this Court 

referred to the cases starting from Balaji to Rajendran. It reiterated the 

principle stated in Rajendran that if a caste as a whole is socially and 

educationally backward, reservation can be made in favour of such a caste 

on the ground that it is a socially and educationally backward class of 

citizens within the meaning of Article 15(4). It also cautioned that the 

Government should not proceed on the basis that once a class is considered 

as a backward class, it will continue to be backward class for all times. 10. Therefore neither Rajendran nor Periakaruppam really departed from 

or diluted the principle laid down in Balaji. On the other hand, the principle 

laid down in Balaji was reiterated. Rajendran and Periakaruppam only 

show that in extreme cases where it is found that the caste under 

consideration was, as a whole, socially and educationally backward, and 

therefore akin to a Scheduled Caste, reservation could be made only on the 

basis of caste alone. 11. Vasanth Kumar (supra) held that only a caste comparable to the 

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of backwardness, 

could be considered to be a socially and educationally backward class in 

favour of which reservation could be made merely on the basis of caste. Vasanth Kumar therefore, reiterated Balaji. Then came to the decision of 


nine Judges in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India [1992 Supp. (3) SCC 217]. This Court held that the use of the word 'class' in Article 16(4) refers to 

social class, and that reservation under Article 16(4) is in favour of a 

backward class and not a caste. It held that ` backward class of citizens' 

contemplated in Article 16(4) is not the same as `socially and educationally 

backward classes' referred to in Article 15(4) , but much wider. It held that 

there was no reason to qualify or restrict the meaning of the expression 

'backward class of citizens' by saying that it means only those other 

backward classes who are situated similarly to Scheduled Castes and/or 

Scheduled Tribes (para 795). This Court held : In the context of Article 16(4) this Court also observed that a caste can be 

and quite often is a social class in India (as in the case of Scheduled Castes) 

and if it is backward socially, it would be a `backward class' for the 

purposes of Article 16(4). It held that the accent in Article 16(4) is on social 

backwardness, whereas the accent in Article 15(4) is on `social and 


educational backwardness'. Ultimately, this Court held : 12. It is thus seen that Indra Sawhney certainly went a step further than 

Balaji and other cases in holding that a caste can be the starting point for 

determination of backwardness -- social and economic. But it is clear from 

the decision that caste itself is not the final destination, that is, a caste by 

itself, cannot be determinative of social and educational backwardness. A 

caste can be identified to be socially and economically backward, only when 


the creamy layer is removed from the caste and a compact class emerges 

which can be identified as a socially and educationally backward class. Thus 

the determination is not by first identifying a caste as a socially and 

educationally backward class and, thereafter, remove or exclude the creamy 

layer for the purpose of enjoying the benefits flowing to such class. On the 

other hand, until and unless, the creamy layer is removed from a caste, there 

is no compact class which can be termed as socially and educationally 

backward class at all. Thus, while the process of identifying socially and 

educationally backward class can conveniently start with a socially and 

educationally backward caste, remove the creamy layer therefrom results in 

the emergence of compact class which can be termed as a socially and 

educationally backward class. In this sense, it can be said that Indra 

Sawhney is only a development of the principles laid down in Balaji, 

R.Chitralekha, Parimoo, Pradip Tandon, N.M.Thomas N.M. and Vasanth 

Kumar, which pointed out that the advanced section of a backward caste 

constituting the creamy layer is virtually the same as forward class. If the 

creamy layer is not excluded the benefit of reservation will be appropriated 

by such advanced sections. Referring to this aspect, Indra Sawhney (supra) 

said : This Court directed that a permanent mechanism in the nature of a 

Commission to be created to examine the requests for inclusion, and 

complaints of over-inclusion and under-inclusion in the lists of OBCs of 

citizens, and to advise the Government and such advice should normally be 

binding upon the Government. There is therefore, no doubt that only when a 

caste identified or perceived as a socially and educationally backward caste 

sheds its creamy layer, it becomes a socially and educationally backward 

class. The need for exclusion of creamy layer is also evident from the 

subsequent decision in Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. State of Bihar - 1995 (5) 

SCC 403, Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (II) - 1996 (6) SCC 506, 

M.Nagaraj v. Union of India - 2006 (8) SCC 212. When Indra Sawhney has 

held that creamy layer should be excluded for purposes of Article 16(4) , 

dealing with `backward class' which is much wider than `socially and 

educationally backward classes occurring in Article 15(4) and (5) , it goes 

without saying that without the removal of creamy layer there cannot be a 

socially and educationally backward class. 13. Caste has divided this country for ages. It has hampered its growth. To have a casteless society will be realization of a noble dream. To start 


with, the effect of reservation may appear to perpetuate caste. The 

immediate effect of caste based reservation has been rather unfortunate. In 

the pre-reservation era people wanted to get rid of the backward tag -- either 

social or economical, and were keen to be known as forward. But post 

reservation, every one, including those who are considered `forward' fight 

for `backward' tag, in the hope of enjoying the benefits of reservations. When more and more people aspire for `backwardness' instead of 

`forwardness' the country itself stagnates. Reservation as an affirmative 

action is required only for a limited period to bring forward the socially and 

educationally backward classes by giving them a gentle supportive push. But if there is no review after a reasonable gap and there is any tendency to 

continue reservations indefinitely, the country will become a caste divided 

society permanently. Instead of developing into an united society with 

diversity, we will end up as a fractured society for ever suspicious of each 

other. While affirmative discrimination is a road to equality, care should be 

taken that the road does not become a rut in which the vehicle of progress 

gets entrenched and stuck. Any provision for reservation should not become 

crutches which themselves create a permanent disability. They should 

merely be temporary aid to achieve normalcy. Though the constitutional 

goal is a casteless society, Constitution advisedly does not specifically 


prescribe a casteless society nor try to abolish caste. But by barring 

discrimination in the name of caste and by providing for affirmative action 

Constitution seeks to remove the difference in status on the basis of caste. When the differences in status among castes are removed, all castes will 

become equal and gradually lose their importance. A beginning will thus be 

made for a casteless egalitarian society. 14. I agree that the petitions shall stand disposed of in the manner stated 

by the learned Chief Justice. ...........................J

 (R. V. Raveendran)

New Delhi; Writ Petition (Civil) Nos.269 AND 598 of 2006, Writ Petition 

(Civil) Nos.29, 35, 53, 336, 313, 335, 231, 425, 428 of 2007 

AND Contempt Petition (C) No.112 of 2007 in Writ Petition (C) 

No.265 of 2006. * * * * * 

 J U D G M E N T

D
 alveer Bhandari, J. 1. The 93rd Amendment to the Constitution directly or 

indirectly affects millions of citizens of this country. It has 

been challenged in a number of writ petitions. This Court 

heard these petitions intermittently over the course of several 

months. Appearing on behalf of petitioners and respondents, 

the country's finest legal minds assisted us. 2. The fundamental question that arises in these writ 


petitions is: Whether Article 15(5) , inserted by the 93rd 

Amendment, is consistent with the other provisions of the 

Constitution or whether its impact runs contrary to the 

Constitutional aim of achieving a casteless and classless 

society? 3. On behalf of the petitioners, Senior Advocate Mr. F.S. 

Nariman, eloquently argued that if Article 15(5) is permitted to 

remain in force, then, instead of achieving the goal of a 

casteless and classless society, India would be converted into 

a caste-ridden society. The country would forever remain 

divided on caste lines. The Government has sought to 

repudiate this argument. Petitioners' argument, however, 

echoes the grave concern of our Constitution's original 

Framers. 4. On careful analysis of the Constituent Assembly and the 

Parliamentary Debates, one thing is crystal clear: our leaders 

have always and unanimously proclaimed with one voice that 

our constitutional goal is to establish a casteless and classless 

society. Mahatma Gandhi said: "The caste system as we know 


is an anachronism. It must go if both Hinduism and India are 

to live and grow from day to day." The first Prime Minister, 

Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru, said that "no one should be left in any 

doubt that the future Indian Society was to be casteless and 

classless". Dr. B. R. Ambedkar called caste "anti-national". 5. After almost four decades of independence, while 

participating in the Parliamentary Debate on the Mandal 

issue, then Prime Minister Shri Rajiv Gandhi on 6th 

September, 1990 again reiterated the same sentiments: "I 

think, nobody in this House will say that the removal of 

casteism is not part of the national goal, therefore, it would be 

in the larger interest of the nation to get rid of the castes as 

early as possible". It is our bounden duty and obligation to 

examine the validity of the 93rd Amendment in the background 

of the Preamble and the ultimate goal that runs through the 

pages of the Constitution. 6. To attain an egalitarian society, we have to urgently 

remove socio-economic inequalities. All learned counsel for 

the petitioners asserted that we must deliver the benefits of 


reservation to only those who really deserve it. This can only 

be done if we remove the creamy layer. Learned counsel for 

the Union of India and other respondents opposed this 

assertion. The principle of creamy layer emanates from the 

broad doctrine of equality itself. Unless the creamy layer is 

removed from admissions and service reservation, the benefits 

would not reach the group in whose name the impugned 

legislation was passed - the poorest of the poor. Therefore, 

including the creamy layer would be inherently unjust. 7. Creamy layer exclusion, however, is just one of the many 

issues raised by the parties. I need to examine various facets 

of this case in order to decide the validity of the 93rd 

Amendment and the Central Educational Institutions 

(Reservation in Admission) Bill, 2006 (passed as Act 5 of 2007) 

(hereinafter called the "Reservation Act"). I shall focus my 

analysis on the following issues: 8. I have carefully examined the pleadings and written 


submissions submitted at length. Admittedly, the provisions 

of the Constitution and the Preamble lead to the irresistible 

conclusion that the Nation has always wanted to achieve a 

casteless and classless society. If we permit this impugned 

legislation to be implemented, I am afraid, instead of a 

casteless and classless India, we would be left with a caste- ridden society. 9. The first place where caste can be eradicated is the 

classroom. It all starts with education. In other words, if you 

belong to a lower caste but are well qualified, hardly anyone 

would care about your caste. Free and compulsory education 

is now a fundamental right under Article 21A. The State is 

duty bound to implement this Article on a priority basis. There has been grave laxity in its implementation. This laxity 

adversely affects almost every walk of life. In my opinion, 

nothing is more important for the Union of India than to 

implement this critical Article. 10. I direct the Union of India to set a time-limit within which 

this Article is going to be completely implemented. This time- limit must be set within six months. In case the Union of 

India fails to fix the time-limit, then perhaps this work will 

also have to be done by the Court. 11. The Union of India should appreciate in proper 

prospective that the root cause of social and educational 

backwardness is poverty. All efforts have to be made to 

eradicate this fundamental problem. Unless the creamy layer 

is removed, the benefit would not reach those who are in need. Reservation sends the wrong message. Everybody is keen to 

get the benefit of backward class status. If we want to really 

help the socially, educationally and economically backward 

classes, we need to earnestly focus on implementing Article 

21A. We must provide educational opportunity from day one. Only then will the casteless/classless society be within our 

grasp. Once children are of college-going age, it is too late for 

reservation to have much of an effect. The problem with the 

Reservation Act is that most of the beneficiaries will belong to 

the creamy layer, a group for which no benefits are necessary. Only non-creamy layer OBCs can avail of reservations in 


college admissions, and once they graduate from college they 

should no longer be eligible for post-graduate reservation. 27% is the upper limit for OBC reservation. The Government 

need not always provide the maximum limit. Reasonable cut 

off marks should be set so that standards of excellence are not 

greatly affected. The unfilled seats should revert to the 

general category. 12. These issues first arise out of the text of the impugned 

Amendment. Reservation for Socially and Educationally 

Backward Classes of Citizens (SEBCs) was introduced by the 

93rd Amendment. Article 15(5) states: 7 E
 xcluding the Creamy Layer from receiving 

special benefits: Articles 14 , 15 and 16 allow for affirmative action. To promote Article 14 egalitarian equality, the State may classify citizens 

into groups, giving preferential treatment to one over another. When it classifies, the State must keep those who are unequal 

out of the same batch to achieve constitutional goal of 

egalitarian society. 7 A
 rguments of the Union of India in regard to 

t
 he creamy layer: Counsel for the Union of India argued that it is still 

theoretically possible for the executive to exclude the creamy 

layer. Much is possible in theory. Given the executive's failure 

to take action since the time the Act was passed, I find this 


argument unavailing. 18. With the Parliament's intention in view, I will deal in 

some detail with the reasons as to why the creamy layer 

should be excluded from reservation. I do so because I want 

to emphasize that the creamy layer must never be included in 

any affirmative action legislation. It also becomes imperative 

to gather the original Framers' and the Framers' intention. At 

the outset, we recognise a distinction between the original 

Framers and the Framers, i.e., Members of the First 

Parliament. Members of the Constituent Assembly and the 

First Parliament were one in the same. But the distinction is 

necessary to the extent that the First Parliament deviated from 

its constitutional philosophy. By examining the debate on Article 15(4) , I may ascertain whether the Framers wanted to 

exclude the creamy layer. 19. The First Parliament believed that "economic" was 

included in the "social" portion of "socially and educationally 

backward." Prime Minister Nehru said as much: 20. In the 15(4) debate, Shri M.A. Ayyangar's wanted to add 

"economic" to ensure that the rich SEBCs would not receive 

special provisions. 21. In the present case, Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, the learned 

Senior Counsel and Mr. S.K. Jain, the learned counsel 

vehemently argued on behalf of petitioners that it is precisely 

because equality is at issue that the creamy layer must be 

removed. The creamy layer has been the subject matter of a 

number of celebrated judgments of this Court. In a seven 

Judge Bench in State of Kerala & Another v. N. M. Thomas 

& Others (1976) 2 SCC 310, Justice Mathew, in his 


concurring judgment, dealt with the right to equality in the 

following words: (emphasis added) 22. In Indra Sawhney & Others v. Union of India & 

Others (1992) Supp (3) SCC 217, (hereinafter referred to as 

Sawhney I), this Court has aptly observed that reservation is 

given to backward classes until they cease to be backward, 

and not indefinitely. This Court in para 520 (Sawant, J.) has 

stated as under: (emphasis supplied). 23. For our purposes, creamy layer OBCs and non-creamy 

layer OBCs are not equals when it comes to moving up the 

socio-economic ladder by means of educational opportunity. Failing to remove the creamy layer treats creamy layer OBCs 

and non-creamy layer OBCs as equals. In the same 

paragraph, Justice Sawant stated that "... to rank [the creamy 

layer] with the rest of the backward classes would ... amount 

to treating the unequals equally..." violating the equality 

provisions of the Constitution. 24. According to the Kerala Legislature, there was no creamy 

layer in Kerala. The legislation was challenged in Indra 

Sawhney v. Union of India & Others (2000) 1 SCC 168, 

(hereinafter referred to as Sawhney II). The Court struck the 

two provisions that barred creamy layer exclusion, concluding 


that non-inclusion of the creamy-layer and inclusion of 

forward castes in reservation violates the right to equality 

under Article 14 and the basic structure. 25. In Sawhney II at para 65, the Court had gone to the 

extent of observing that not even the Parliament, by 

constitutional amendment, could dismantle the basic structure 

by including the creamy layer in reservation: 26. By definition, the creamy and non-creamy are unequal 

when it comes to schooling. Relative to their non-creamy 

counterparts, the creamy have a distinct advantage in gaining 

admission. While the creamy and non-creamy are given equal 

opportunity to gain admission in the reserved category, this 

equality exists in name only. Will the OBC daughter of a 

Minister, IAS officer or affluent business owner attend better 


schools than her non-creamy counterpart? Yes. Will she go to 

private tuitions unaffordable to her non-creamy counterpart? Certainly. And where will she cram for the all-decisive 

entrance exams? In a coaching center? Of course. Will she 

come home from school to find a family member waiting? Probably. And when she seeks help from her parents, are they 

educated and able to give superior assistance with 

schoolwork? Most likely. 27. I take judicial notice of these anecdotes, for they flesh out 

a simple fact: she has all the resources that her non-creamy 

counterpart lacks. It is no surprise that she will outperform 

the non-creamy. On average, her lot will take the reserved 

seats. 28. I cannot consider the OBC Minister's daughter and the 

non-creamy OBC as equals in terms of their chances at 

earning a university seat; nor can I allow them to be treated 

equally. To lump them in the same category is an 

unreasonable classification. Putting them in head-to-head 


competition for the same seats violates the right to equality in Articles 14 , 15 and 16. 29. In its conclusion at para 122, M. Nagaraj & Others v. Union of India & Others (2006) 8 SCC 212, a Constitution 

Bench of this Court while dealing with Article 16(4A) and 16(4B) with regard to SC and ST observed as under:- It was contended that Nagraj is obiter in regard to creamy 

layer exclusion. According to Nagraj, reservation in promotion 

for SC/ST is contingent on exclusion of the creamy layer. (paras 122, 123 and 124). The contention of the Union of 

India cannot be accepted. The discussion regarding creamy 

layer is far from obiter in Nagraj. If the State fails to exclude 

the SC/ST creamy layer, the reservation must fall. Placing 

this contingency in the conclusion makes the discussion of 

creamy layer part of the ratio. 30. In sum, creamy layer inclusion violates the right to 

equality. That is, non-exclusion of creamy layer and inclusion 

of forward castes in reservation violates the right to equality in Articles 14 , 15 and 16 as well as the basic structure of the 

Constitution. 7 If
 you belong to the creamy layer, you are not 

SEBC. 31. One of the prominent questions raised in the writ 

petitions is whether creamy layer OBCs should be considered 

socially and educationally backward under the provisions of Article 15(5). While interpreting this provision, a basic 

syllogism must govern our decision. If you belong to the 

creamy layer, you are socially advanced and cannot be given 

the benefit of reservation. (See: Sawhney I). 32. Once one is socially advanced, he cannot be socially and 

educationally backward. He who is socially forward is likely to 

be educationally forward as well. If either condition (social or 

educational) goes unmet, one cannot qualify for the benefit of 

reservation as SEBC. Being socially advanced, the creamy 


layer is not socially backward pursuant to Articles 15(4) and 15(5) of the Constitution. 33. Even the text of Articles 15(4) and 15(5) provides for 

creamy layer exclusion. In this sense, one could say that the 

term "creamy layer" is synonymous with "non-SEBC". 34. Similar interpretation is given to "backward classes" Even though the O.M. was silent on the issue of creamy layer, 

Justice Reddy excluded the creamy layer at para 859(3)(d). The O.M. could not go into effect until the creamy layer was 

excluded. [para 861(b)]. Exclusion was only in regard to OBC; SC/ST were not touched. (para 792). In Sawhney I, the 

entire discussion was confined only to Other Backward 

Classes. Similarly, in the instant case, the entire discussion 

was confined only to Other Backward Classes. Therefore, I 

express no opinion with regard to the applicability of exclusion 

of creamy layer to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 

Tribes. 7 C
 reamy Layer OBCs are not educationally 

backward 35. In addition to social backwardness, the text of 15(5) 

demands that recipients are also educationally backward. Even though the creamy layer's status as socially advanced is 

sufficient to disqualify them for preferential treatment, the 

creamy layer from any community is usually educated and will 


want the same for its children. They know that education is 

the key to success. For most, it made them. People belonging 

to this group do not require reservation. 7 Creamy Layer Inclusion Robs the Poor and 
Gives to the Rich: [See: N.M Thomas (supra), para 124 (seven-Judge Bench); K.C. Vasanth Kumar & Another v. State of Karnataka , 

1985 (Supp) SCC 714, paras 2, 24 and 28 (five-Judge Bench); Sawhney I., paras 520, 793 and 859(3)(d) (nine-Judge 

Bench); Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. State of Bihar & Others (1995) 5 SCC 403, paras 3, 17 and 18 (two-Judge Bench); Sawhney II, paras 8-10, 27, 48 and 65-66 (three-Judge 

Bench); Nagaraj (supra), paras, 120-124 (five-Judge Bench); Nair Service Society v. State of Kerala , (2007) 4 SCC 1; paras 31 and 49-54 (two-Judge Bench)]. 38. In Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh 

(Railway) v. Union of India & Others (1981) 1 SCC 246, 

Justice Iyer had this to say about the creamy layer: 39. Creamy layer inclusion was not enough to strike an 

entire provision in this case. He suggests that creamy layer 

exclusion is an issue to be dealt with at a later time. Thus, Justice Iyer does not mandate creamy layer exclusion; rather, he leaves the question to the State. 40. Apart from judicial pronouncements, the Oversight 

Committee suggested that failure to exclude the creamy layer 

would lead to unfair results. The Committee was cautious to 

reach a conclusion. 41. In its Report, it stated that "... the decision taken was to 

leave the matter to the Government of India, keeping in mind 

the fact that the `creamy layer' is not covered in the 

Reservation Act, 2006." (See: Oversight Committee, Vol. 1, p. 33 and 4.2.) 42. Before "leaving" the matter to the Government, the 

Committee nevertheless made its recommendation: "In case it 

is decided not to exclude the `creamy layer', the poorest among 

the OBCs will be placed at a disadvantage." (emphasis added). (See: Oversight Committee at Appendix I in its Report at p. 70, 


para 1.13). At page 69 of Vol. I of its Report, the Committee 

offered data to support this conclusion: 43. The Committee could have played it safe. Despite some 

opposition, the Committee included its opinion on the matter. And that opinion is unequivocal: the creamy must be 

excluded. 44. What is allegedly for the poor goes to the rich. Is that 

reasonable? Trumpeted by the Parliament as a "...boost to the 

morale of the downtrodden" and "... in the right direction of 

ensuring social justice to other backward classes ..." and 

"ensuring social justice to those weaker sections ...", Article 

15(5) dupes those who actually need preferential treatment. (See: Prof. Basudeb Barman, M.P., the Parliamentary Debates, 

p. 531, December 21, 2005; Prof. M. Ramadass, M.P., at p. 510; and Shri C.K. Chandrappan, M.P., at p. 494 respectively). For the poorest of the poor, reservation in college is an empty 

promise. Few of the financially poor OBCs attend high school, 

let alone college. Instead of rewarding those that complete Plus 

2, the 93rd Amendment (Art 15(5)) poses another barrier: they 

will have to compete with the creamy layer for reserved seats. 45. As explained, the poor lack the resources to compete with 

the creamy, who "snatch away" those seats. { N. M. Thomas (supra), para 124 (Iyer, J.)}. With the creamy excluded, poor 

OBCs would compete with poor OBCs - the playing field 


levelled. As it stands, the Amendment and Act serve one 

purpose: they provide a windfall of seats to the rich and 

powerful amongst the OBCs. It is unreasonable to classify 

rich and poor OBCs as a single entity. As noted, this violates 

the Article 14 right to equality. 46. Unless the creamy layer is removed, OBCs cannot 

exercise their group rights. The Union of India and other 

respondents argued that creamy layer exclusion is wrong 

because the text of the 93rd Amendment bestows a benefit on 

"classes", not individuals. While it is a group right, the group 

must contain only those individuals that belong to the group. I 

first take the entire lot of creamy and non creamy layer OBCs. I then remove the creamy layer on an individual basis based 

on their income, property holdings, occupation, etc. What is 

left is a group that meets constitutional muster. It is a group 

right that must also belong to individuals, if the right is to 

have any meaning. If one OBC candidate is denied special 

provisions that he should have received by law, it is not the 

group's responsibility to bring a claim. He would be the one to 


do so. He has a right of action to challenge the ruling that 

excluded him from the special provisions afforded to OBCs. In 

this sense, he has an individual right. Group and individual 

rights need not be mutually exclusive. In this case, it is not 

one or the other but both that apply to the impugned 

legislation. 7 Whether the Creamy Layer exists outside 
India?: Individuals belonging to these groups are given preferential 

treatment over those who do not. 48. The study demonstrated that Black, Latino and Native- Americans with the same SAT scores as White or Asian 

students had a 28% better chance than the White or Asian 

students at gaining admission; those whose parents attended 

the college had a 20% advantage over those whose parents did 

not; and the poor received no advantage whatsoever over the 

rich. (See: New York Times article, p. 3.) 49. The statistics indicate that the failure to exclude the 

creamy layer ultimately leads to a situation in which deserving 

students are excluded. When we revert to the Indian scenario, 

as long as the Government gives handouts to certain groups, 

the creamy layer therein will "lap" them up. A scheme in 

which the poor receive no advantage can be remedied by 

excluding the creamy layer. 50. Even the Mandal Commission, which was established in 

1979 with a mandate to identify the socially and educationally 


backward, admitted that the creamy layer was robbing fellow 

OBCs of reservation. In reference to Tamil Nadu, it said: "In 

actual operation, the benefits of reservation have gone 

primarily to the relatively more advanced castes amongst the 

notified backward classes." (See: P.37, 8.13 of the Report of 

the Backward Classes Commission, First Part, Vols. 1-2, 

1980). It also stated that: "it is no doubt true that the major 

benefits of reservation.....will be cornered by the more 

advanced sections....." but reasoned that this was acceptable 

because reform is presumably slow and should start with the 

more advanced of the backward. (See: Page 62, para 13.7 

(recommendations)). 51. In N. M. Thomas & Others case (supra), Krishna Iyer, 

J. in his concurring judgment in para 124 noted that the 

research conducted by the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social 

Studies, Patna, had revealed a dual society among harijans in 

which a tiny elite gobbles up the benefits. 7 Severing the Creamy Layer 52. Technically speaking, I am severing the implied inclusion 

of the creamy layer. It is severable for two reasons. First, a 

nine-Judge Bench in Sawhney I severed a similar provision 

wherein the creamy layer was not expressly included, 

upholding the rest of the O.M.'s reservation scheme. Second, 

because the Parliament must have known that Sawhney I 

had excluded the creamy layer, it seems likely that the 

Parliament also realized that this Court may do the same. A 

cursory review of the Parliamentary Debates regarding Article 

15(5) clearly reveals that the Parliament discussed the 

Sawhney I judgment in detail. (See: for example, comments 

made by Shri Mohan Singh, p.474 and Shri Devendra Prasad, 

pages 478-479 on 21 December 2005). Had the Parliament 

insisted on creamy layer inclusion, it could have said as much 

in the text of 15(5). Instead, the Parliament left the text of 

15(5) silent on the issue, delegating the issue of OBC 

identification to the executive in Section 2(g) of the Reservation 

Act. 53. The test for severability asks a subjective question: had 

the Parliament known its provision would be struck would it 

still have passed the rest of the legislation? (See: R.M.D. 

Chamarbaugwalla & Another v. Union of India & 

Another , AIR 1957 SC 628 at page 637 at para 23). It is never 

easy to say what the Parliament would have done had it 

known that part of its amendment would be severed. Nevertheless, I find it hard to imagine that the Parliament 

would have said, "if the creamy is excluded, the rest of the 

OBCs should be denied reservation in education." It seems 

unlikely that it would have been an all-or-nothing proposition 

for the Parliament, when the very goal of the impugned 

legislation of promoting OBC educational advancement does 

not depend on creamy layer inclusion. For these reasons, I 

sever or exclude the implied inclusion of the creamy layer. 7 Identification of Creamy Layer 54. Income as the criterion for creamy layer exclusion is 


insufficient and runs afoul of Sawhney I. (See: page 724 at 

para 792). Identification of the creamy layer has been and 

should be left to the Government, subject to judicial direction. For a valid method of creamy layer exclusion, the Government 

may use its post-Sawhney I criteria as a template. (See: O.M. 

of 8-9-1993, para 2(c)/Column 3, approved by this Court in Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra), para 10). This schedule is a 

comprehensive attempt to exclude the creamy layer in which 

income, Government posts, occupation and land holdings are 

taken into account. The Office Memorandum is reproduced 

hereunder: A list of such castes and communities is being issued 

separately by the Ministry of Welfare. (e) The aforesaid reservation shall take immediate effect. However, this will not apply in vacancies where the 

recruitment process has already been initiated prior to the 

issue of this order. 3. Similar instructions in respect of public sector 

undertakings and financial institutions including public sector 

banks will be issued by the Department of Public Enterprises 

and by the Ministry of Finance respectively from the date of 

this Office Memorandum. SCHEDULE

 Description of To whom rule of exclusion will 

 Category apply. Son(s) and daughter(s) of
 CONSTITUTIONAL 

I. POSTS (a) President of India; (b) Vice President of India; (c) Judges of the Supreme Court 

 and of the High Courts; (d) Chairman & Members of 


 UPSC and of the State Public 

 Service Commission; Chief 

 Election Commissioner; Comptroller & Auditor General of 

 India; (e) Persons holding Constitutional 

 positions of like nature. SERVICE CATEGORY Son(s) and daughter(s) of

II. A. Group A/Class 1 (a) parents, both of whom are 

 officers of the All India Class I officers; Central and State 

 Services (Direct (b) parents, either of whom is a 

 Recruits) Class I officer; (c) parents, both of whom are 

 Class I officers, but one of them 

 dies or suffers permanent 

 incapacitation. (d) parents, either of whom is a 

 Class I officer and such parent 

 dies or suffers permanent 

 incapacitation and before such 

 death or such incapacitation has 

 had the benefit of employment in 

 any International Organisation 

 like UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for 

 a period of not less than 5 years. (e) parents, both of whom are 

 class I officers die or suffer 

 permanent incapacitation and 

 before such death or such 

 incapacitation of the both, either 

 of them has had the benefit of 


 employment in any International 

 Organisation like UN, IMF, World 

 Bank, etc. for a period of not less 

 than 5 years. (f) Provided that the rule of 

 exclusion shall not apply in the 

 following cases :- (a) Sons and daughters of parents 

 either of whom or both of whom 

 are Class-I officers and such 

 parent(s) dies / die or suffer 

 permanent incapacitation. (b) A lady belonging to OBC 

 category has got married to a 

 Class-I officer, and may herself 

 like to apply for a job. Group B/Class II Son(s) and daughter(s) of

officers of the Central & (a) parents both of whom are 
State Services (Direct Class II officers. Recruitment) (b) parents of whom only the 

 husband is a Class II officer and 

 he gets into Class I at the age of 

 40 or earlier. (c) parents, both of whom are 

 Class II officers and one of them 

 dies or suffers permanent 

 incapacitation and either one of 

 them has had the benefit of 

 employment in any International 

 Organisation like UN, IMF, World 

 Bank, etc. for a period of not less 

 than 5 years before such death or 

 permanent incapacitation; (d) parents, of whom the husband 

 is a Class I officer (direct recruit 

 or pre-forty promoted) and the 

 wife is a Class II officer and the 

 wife dies; or suffers permanent 

 incapacitation; and (e) parents, of whom the wife is a 

 Class I officer (Direct Recruit or 

 pre-forty promoted) and the 

 husband is a Class II officer and 

 the husband dies or suffers 

 permanent incapacitation. Provided that the rule of 

 exclusion shall not apply in the 

 following cases: Sons and daughters of (a) Parents both of whom are 

 Class II officers and one of them 

 dies or suffers permanent 

 incapacitation. (b) Parents, both of whom are 

 Class II officers and both of them 

 die or suffer permanent 

 incapacitation, even though 

 either of them has had the 

 benefit of employment in any 

 International Organisation like 

 UN, IMF, World Bank, etc. for a 

 period of not less than 5 years 

 before their death or permanent 

 incapacitation. C. Employees in Public The criteria enumerated in A & B 

Sector Undertakings above in this Category will apply 


 etc. mutatis mutandi to officers 

 holding equivalent or comparable 

 posts in PSUs, banks, Insurance 

 Organisations, Universities, etc. 

 and also to equivalent or 

 comparable posts and positions 

 under private employment, 

 Pending the evaluation of the 

 posts on equivalent or 

 comparable basis in these 

 institutions, the criteria specified 

 in Category VI below will apply to 

 the officers in these Institutions. (Persons holding civil Force and the Para Military 

 posts are not included) Forces; Provided that:- PROFESSIONAL CLASS 

 AND THOSE 

 ENGANGED IN TRADE 
IV. AND INDUSTRY

 (I) Persons engaged in Criteria specified against 

 profession as a doctor, Category VI will apply: (ii) Mango, citrus, apple Deemed as agricultural holding 

plantations etc. and hence criteria at A above 

 under this Category will apply. C. Vacant land and/or Criteria specified in Category VI 

 buildings in urban below will apply. areas or urban 

 agglomerations Explanation: Building may be 

 used for residential, industrial or 

 commercial purpose and the like 

 two or more such purposes. VI. INCOME/WEALTH Son(s) and daughter(s) of

 TEST (a) Persons having gross income 

 of Rs.1 lakh or above or 

 possessing wealth above the 

 exemption limit as prescribed in 

 the Wealth Tax Act for a period of 

 three years. (b) Persons in Categories I, II, III 

 and VA who are not disentitled to 

 the benefit of reservation but 

 have income from other sources 

 of wealth which will bring them 

 within the income/wealth criteria 

 mentioned in (a) above. Explanation: (i) Income from salaries or 

 agricultural land shall not be 

 clubbed; (ii) The income criteria in 

 terms of rupee will be modified 

 taking into account the change in 

 its value every three years. If the 

 situation, however, so demands, 

 the interregnum may be less. Explanation: Wherever the expression "permanent 

 incapacitation" occur in this schedule, it shall mean 

 incapacitation which results in putting an officer out of 

 service. Smt. Sarita Prasad

 Joint Secretary to the Government of India." 55. In sum, the schedule excludes the children of those who 

hold constitutional posts, e.g., the children of the President of 

India, Supreme Court Judges, Chairman and Members of 

UPSC and others are excluded. Class 1 Officers' children are 

not eligible for OBC perks either. When both parents are 

Class-II Officers, their children are excluded. The same 

criteria that apply to Class-I and II officers apply to children of 

parents who work at high levels within the private sector. Agricultural owners are excluded when their irrigated holdings 

are more than or equal to 85% of the statutory ceiling. The 

O.M. further excludes persons having a gross annual income 

of Rs.2.5 lakh or more. The Government raised the income 

limit from Rs.1 to Rs.2.5 lakh on 09.03.2004 vide O.M. 

36033/3/2004. 56. The creamy layer schedule of the O.M. dated 8.9.93, in 

my opinion, is not comprehensive. This should be revised 

periodically - preferably once in every 5 years, in order to 

ensure that creamy layer criteria take changing circumstances 

into account. 57. Apart from the people who have been excluded vide the 

office memo, I urge the Government to make it more 

comprehensive. The Government should consider excluding 

the children of sitting and former Members of Parliament (MP) 

and Members of Legislative Assemblies (MLA) from special 

benefits. If constitutional authorities have been excluded from 

benefits because of their status or resources, the same should 

apply to children of former and sitting MPs and MLAs. I hope 

the judiciary will not have to involve itself in this matter. 2. Applying Article 21A to the Reservation Act 58. On 18 December 2006, in the Rajya Sabha Debate on the 

Reservation Act, Member of Parliament and former Governor, 

Dr. P.C. Alexander summed up what would become one of 


Petitioners' arguments. Should Rs.17,000 crores be spent on 

implementing the Reservation Act for higher education when 

primary/secondary schooling is in such bad shape? Dr. 

Alexander stated: Spending on higher at the expense of lower education raises 

the specter of conflict with Article 21A. By the 86th 

Amendment, Article 21A was inserted in our Constitution. Article 21A reads as follows: 59. Under Article 21A , it is a mandatory obligation of the 

State to provide free and compulsory education to all children 


aged six to fourteen. In order to achieve this constitutional 

mandate, the State has to place much greater emphasis on 

allocating more funds for primary and secondary education. There is no corresponding constitutional right to higher 

education. The entire Nation's progress virtually depends 

upon the proper and effective implementation of Article 21A. 60. This Court in Unni Krishnan, J.P. & Others v. State of 

Andhra Pradesh & Others (1993) 1 SCC 645 para 166 held 

as under: This observation encouraged the Parliament to insert Article 

21A into the Constitution. 61. In Unni Krishnan (supra), Justice Reddy observed that 

the quality of education in Government schools was extremely 


poor and that the schools were woefully inadequate to the 

needs of the children. He noted that many countries spend 

6% to 8% of Gross Domestic Product on education. Our 

expenditure on education is just 4% of GDP. 62. Though an improvement over past performance, the 

overall education picture leaves much to be desired. The bad 

news is really bad. Even where we have seen improvement, 

there is still failure. A survey by Pratham, an NGO, fleshes 

out the acute problems found in rural schools. (See: ASER 

2007 - Rural Annual Status of Education Report for 2007, 

published on January 16, 2008). The survey covered 16,000 

villages. As Pratham indicates, there are an estimated 140 

million children in the age group 6 to 14 years in primary 

schools. Of these 30 million cannot read, 40 million can 

recognize a few alphabets, 40 million can read some words, 

and 30 million can read paragraphs. Over 55 million of these 

children will not complete four years of school, eventually 

adding to the illiterate population of India. The national 

literacy rate is 65%. 63. 24 districts with more than 50,000 out of school children 

means we have failed 24 times over. 71 districts in which 

there are 60 students per teacher is just as bad, if not worse. According to Pratham (and in line with the Ministry of HRD's 

six-month review), the number of out of school children has 

hovered around 7,50,000. [page 6]. Moreover, it goes without 

saying that children need proper facilities. Today, just 59% of 

schools can boast of a useable toilet. [page 49]. 64. The quality of education is equally troubling. For 

standards I and II, only 78.3% of students surveyed could 

recognize letters and read words or more in their own 

language. [page 47]. In 2006, it was even worse - only 73.1% 

could do so. It is disheartening to peruse the statistics for 

standards III to V, where only 66.4% could read Standard I 

text or more in their own language in 2007. [page 47]. As 

Pratham stated at page 7: 65. In the third to fifth standards, 40% of students surveyed 

could not subtract. The latest figures indicate that 58.3% 

children in the fifth standard read at the level appropriate for 

second Standard students. [page 32]. In both 2005 and 2007, 

only 74.1% of enrolled children were in attendance. [page 49]. 66. The learned Solicitor General, Mr Vahanvati, submitted 

that the Government has now placed sufficient emphasis on 

primary education. In 2001-2002, the Government launched 

Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). This national programme's goal 

is to universalize elementary education. It supplements 

Governmental spending on education. As the Solicitor 

General explained, it was founded on the idea that education 

for those between the ages of six to fourteen is a fundamental 

right. In this way, SSA seeks to fulfill the Government's 

obligation under Article 21A to provide free and compulsory 

education to this age group. Some of the SSA's 

accomplishments merit mention. 67. By March 2007, 2,03,577 toilets had been constructed or 

were under construction, covering 87% of the goal; more than 

six crore free textbooks had been supplied - 96% of the goal; 1,93,220 new schools had been completed or were under 

construction, i.e., 80% of the desired mark. The learned 

Solicitor General further provided that enrolment for all 

districts in 2004-05 for classes I-V was 11,82,96,540. In 

2005-06, the number increased to 12,46,15,546. A similar 

increase was seen in Classes VI-VII/VIII: from 3,77,17,490 to 

4,36,67,786. The total number of teachers increased from 

36,67,637 in 2003-04 to 46,90,176 in 2005-06. 68. It is the learned Solicitor General's contention that SSA 

was responsible for many of the gains cited above. This 

includes the improved statistics on the student-teacher ratio, 

out of school children and enrollment rate for girls. 69. While the Government is on the right track with regard to 

improving the infrastructure of our system, books and 

buildings only go so far. They are necessary but not sufficient 

for achieving the ultimate goals of (1) keeping children in 


school, (2) ensuring that they learn how to think critically and 

(3) ensuring that they learn skills that will help them secure 

gainful employment. The quality of education provided in the 

majority of primary schools is woeful. That is why I find it 

necessary to review Government spending on education - especially at the primary/secondary level. 70. Undoubtedly, the Government has allocated more funds 

of late for education, but we need to have far more allocation 

of funds and much greater emphasis on free and compulsory 

education. Anything less would flout Article 21A 's mandate. According to H.R.D. Annual Reports read with the Union of 

India Budget 2008-09, we spend roughly seven times as much 

on the individual college student than the individual primary 

or secondary student. Spending per Student: Comparing that which is spent 

on each primary/secondary student versus each 

higher education student

 Year & Level of Estimated # of Total Rs. Allocated** Expenditure per 

 Schooling Enrolled Students* student in Rs. * = Estimated number of students for primary/secondary level is taken 

from 2004-2005 Annual Report, p. 250 at 

http://www.education.nic.in/AR/AR0607-en.pdf. In the same Annual 

Report, 11777296 students were enrolled in higher education in 2004-

2005. For consistency's sake, I have used the 2004-2005 estimates. I 

have found no information that suggests that enrolment for one has 

significantly outpaced the other. ** = Government of India, Expenditure Budget Vol. 1, 2008-2009, p. 6, Total 

Expenditure of Ministries/Departments (school education/literacy and higher education 

have been added). 71. In a country where only 18% of those in the relevant age 

group make it to higher education, this is incredible. See 

NSSO 1999-2000. It is not suggested that higher education 

needs to be neglected or that higher education should not 

receive more funds, but there has to be much greater 

emphasis on the primary education. Our priorities have to be 

changed. Nothing is really more important than to ensure 

total compliance with Article 21A. How can a sizeable portion 

of the population be precluded from realizing the benefits of 

development when almost everyone acknowledges that the 


children are our future? 1. Education for children up to the age of fourteen years 

should be free. This has also been suggested in the 

recommendations of the Kothari Commission on Education in 

1966. Taking the country's rampant poverty into account, free 

education up to the age 14 years is absolutely imperative. There is no other way for the poor to climb their way out of 

this predicament. 2. Mr. P.P. Rao, learned Senior Advocate, rightly 

submitted that when you lack a school building, teachers, 

books and proper facilities, your schooling might be "free" but 

it is not an "education" in any proper sense. Adequate 

number of schools must be established with proper 

infrastructure without further delay. In order to achieve the 

constitutional goal of free and compulsory education, we have 

to appreciate the reality on the ground. A sizeable section of 

the country is still so poor that many parents are compelled to 

send their children to work. The State must carve out 


innovative policies to ensure that parents send their children 

to school. The Mid-Day Meal Scheme will go a long way in 

achieving this goal. But, apart from Mid-Day Meals, the 

Government should provide financial help to extremely poor 

parents. 74. In addition to free education and/or other financial 

assistance, they should also be given books, uniforms and any 

other necessary benefits so that the object of Article 21A is 

achieved. Time and again, this Court, in a number of 

judgments, has observed that the State cannot avoid its 

constitutional obligation on the ground of financial inabilities. (See: Hussainara Khatoon & Others (III) v. Home 

Secretary, State of Bihar, Patna (1980) 1 SCC 98, 107 at 

para 10). 75. In Vasanth Kumar (supra) at para 150, Justice 

Venkataramiah suggested that the State provide preferential 

treatment such as tuition, scholarships, free boarding and 

lodging, etc. According to UNESCO's Education for All, Global 

Monitoring Report (2008) at page 115, at least fourteen 


countries have cash-transfer programmes that target poor 

households with school-age children. The largest programme 

is in Brazil, where 46 million people receive an education 

transfer of up to $44 USD monthly per household in extreme 

poverty with children below age 16. According to the Report, 

the programme has reduced drop-out rates by up to 75% 

among beneficiaries in its more recent stage. 76. Such a programme is not foreign to India. According to 

UNICEF, the State of Gujarat put the idea of financial 

incentives for youth into action: 77. In January 2008, Haryana Chief Minister Mr. Bhupinder 

Singh Hooda unfurled an incentive scheme for SC students in 

which students would receive a one-time payment in addition 


to a monthly stipend for attending school. (See: "Incentives 

announced to curb dropout rate", The Tribune, 5 Jan. 2008). The relevant portion is mentioned hereinbelow: 78. In the name of transparency, students' attendance 

records could be made available to administrators and 

parents. Students would be paid to attend school. They 

would receive a sum for each day of school that they attended. If you only attend 7 out of 10 school days, you would only 

receive 70% of the stipend. 79. Ultimately, this is the most important aspect of 

implementing Article 21A , incentives should be provided to 

parents so that they are persuaded to send their children to 


school. More than punishment, creative incentive programmes 

will go a long way in the implementation of the fundamental 

right enshrined under Article 21A. 7 Historical Perspective on Compulsory 
Education: The Hunter Commission (1882-83) was the first to recommend 

universal education in India. Thereafter, the Patel Bill, 1917 

was the first compulsory education legislation. It proposed to 

make education compulsory from ages 6 to 11. 81. The Government of India Act, 1935 provided that 

"education should be made free and compulsory for both boys 

and girls." Free and compulsory education got a further boost 

when the Zakir Hussain Commission recommended that the 


State should provide it. The 1944 Sargent Report strongly 

recommended free and compulsory education for children 

aged six to fourteen. By 1947, primary education had been 

made compulsory in 152 urban areas and 4995 rural areas. 82. The State has been making some endeavour to provide 

free and compulsory education since 1813 in one form or the 

other. When the original Framers gathered at the Constituent 

Assembly, their desire to provide free and compulsory 

education was well established. The real question in the 

Debate was whether the original Framers would make free and 

compulsory education justiciable or not. They oscillated 

between the options, first placing it in the fundamental rights 

and later moving it to the directive principles of State policies 

under Article 45 of the Constitution. 83. Over 50 years later, the Parliament revisited the subject. The Parliamentary debate on Article 21A offers a glimpse into 

the history of compulsory education in other countries. The 

then Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. M.M. 

Joshi, referred to the speech of Shri Gopal Krishna Gokhale on 


compulsory education. While debating a bill in the imperial 

legislative council in 1911, Shri Gokhale said that in most 

countries: 84. In 1948, the United Nations made its own 

pronouncement on compulsory education. Article 26(1) of the 

Universal Declaration of Human Rights made free and 

compulsory education a lofty if not enforceable goal. While 

many states consider it an authoritative interpretation of the 

United Nations Charter, the Declaration is not a treaty and is 

not intended to be legally binding. Article 26(1) states: 85. Our original Framers put a similar emphasis on the 

matter, placing free and compulsory education in the Directive 

Principles. The un-amended Article 45 provided that: 86. At this juncture, I deem it appropriate to refer to the 

Parliamentary Debate on the aspect of free and compulsory 

education. In the Lok Sabha debate of 28 November 2001 at 

Vol. 20, Shri M.V.V.S. Murthi, at page 499, stated: 87. The Report of the Kothari Commission, 1964-1966, 

headed by Prof. D. S. Kothari, provided important 

recommendations on compulsory education. Nevertheless, the 

circumstances of the day compelled it to soften its 


suggestions. The Nation was relatively poor and could not 

afford drastic increases in education spending. Some excerpts 

of this report are reproduced as under: 88. When Article 21A was introduced, some Members of 


Parliament argued that financially poor parents who fail to 

send their children to school should not be punished and that 

the word "compulsion" in this Article should be understood to 

apply exclusively to the State. 89. Let me examine this argument. The 86th Amendment 

made three changes to the Constitution. It added Articles 21A and 51A(k) and amended Article 45. I turn my focus to Article 

51A(k). In addition to rejecting an amendment that would 

have neutered compulsory education, the Parliament made a 

positive gesture. Though it never passed legislation seeking to 

implement compulsory education, it had not completely 

ignored the subject. From Article 51A(k) , it becomes clear that 

parents would be responsible for sending their children to 

school. Article 51A read with 51A(k) is reproduced as under: 90. Just as Article 51A(a) does not penalize disrespect of the 

National Flag, Article 51A(k) does not penalize 

parents/guardian for failing to send children to school. There 


is, of course, legislation that gives teeth to Article 51A(a). (See: The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 , 

Section 3A). 91. Article 51A(k) indicates that it is parents, not the State, 

who are responsible for making sure children wake up on time 

and reach school. Thus, Article 21A read with Article 51A(k) distributes an obligation amongst the State and parents: the 

State is concerned with free education, parents with 

compulsory. Notwithstanding parental duty, the State also 

has a role to play in ensuring that compulsory education is 

feasible - a topic I will cover below. 92. The Central Government has made some effort to fulfill 

its obligation under Article 21A with regard to "free education." Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is one such example. When it comes 

to "compulsory education," the Central Government has made 

no such effort. The Parliament has not passed any legislation. The executive has not issued any order. What we have is a 

patchwork of different State and Union Territory laws. These 


States/UTs (and NCR) include: 93. The majority of the States and Union Territories levy very 

small fines on parents. I note that these laws do not go into 

effect with one unexcused absence. Notice is given to the 

parents, giving them time to remedy the problem. Of course, 

enforcement is almost always a different story. 94. In contrast to the relatively light aforementioned 

sentences, the Compulsory Education Bill, 2006 introduced in 

the Rajya Sabha would provide six months imprisonment as a 

penalty for those who preclude children from going to school. If this Bill becomes law, Section 7 would dictate the following: 95. It seems that the Bill simultaneously targets employers 


and parents. Employers would be punished when they hire a 

child to work too much or during school hours. Similarly, 

parents would also be punished for allowing this to happen. The Bill would also provide for scholarships, free hostel 

facilities and other incentives, "whenever necessary" and "as 

may be prescribed". 96. In Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India & 

Others , (1997) 10 SCC 549 at page 557 at para 11, the Court 

explained why education should be compulsory. In essence, a 

citizen is only free when he can make a meaningful challenge 

to his fellow citizens or Government's attempt to curtail his 

natural freedom. For this to happen, he needs a certain 

degree of education. This is why Article 21A may be the most 

important fundamental right. Without it, a citizen may never 

come to know of his other rights; nor would he have the 

resources to adequately enforce them. The relevant passage at 

para 11 reads as under:- 97. In contrast to Article 51A(k) , State and Union Territory 

laws and Parliamentary intent with regard to Article 21A , the 

Court in Mukti Morcha was inclined to suggest, not hold, that 

the State was exclusively responsible for compulsory 

education. It went on to reaffirm M.C. Mehta v. State of 

Tamil Nadu & Others (child labour matter) (1996) 6 SCC 756. In that case, the Court took up the issue of child labour 

in hazardous fields when it learnt of an accident in a cracker 

factory in Sivakasi. 98. The said case at para 28 identified poverty as the root 

cause of child labour: 99. In other words, parents send children to work because 

parents have no other choice. Food comes first. If the State 

does not provide extra income so as to remove the incentive to 

send children to work, it is wasting its time on mere gesture. The Court in para 29 concluded that action must be taken: 100. It is interesting to note that compulsory education has 

been introduced in one form or the other in various countries. From the historical experience of these nations, we learn that 

the legislation pertaining to compulsory education has played 

an important role in improving educational outcomes. 7 Compulsory education's roots in the United 
States 101. Compulsory education has had a long history outside of 

India. In 1852, the State of Massachusetts enacted the first 

compulsory attendance law in the United States; though 

compulsory education laws existed much earlier in many 

states, the first dating back to 1642 in Massachusetts. "Were 

Compulsory Attendance and Child Labor Laws Effective? (See: An analysis from 1915 to 1939." (2001) at p. 2. Prof. Adriana 

Lleras-Muney of Princeton University.) 

7 Reasons from abroad for implementing 
compulsory education: 7 Empirical data indicating that compulsory 
education has a positive effect: (Page 48). I find that the introduction of tighter provincial 

restrictions on leaving school between 1920 and 1990 raised 

average grade attainment and incomes. Students compelled to 

attend an extra year of school experienced an average increase 

in annual income of about 12%. I also find that compulsory 

schooling is associated with significant benefits in terms of 

other socio-economic outcome measures ranging from 

bilingualism, employment, and poverty status. These results 

hold up against many specifications checks and are entirely 

consistent with previous studies." 105. In addition to increased income, Prof. Lleras-Muney 

found that legally requiring a child to attend school for one 

more year increased educational attainment by roughly five 

percentage points. (Page 8). Educational attainment refers to 

time spent in school. 7 Example of compulsory education statutes 106. The causes of low enrolment, high drop-out rates and 

frequent truancy in the U.S. and India differ, but the 

consequences thereof do not. In either case, citizens who lack 

education are at an extreme disadvantage. In India, poverty 

has been identified as the ultimate cause of lackluster 

enrolment and attendance rates. Children are compelled to 

work. In developed countries like the United States or 

Canada, children rarely fail to attend school because of 

economic constraints. Instead, a number of different factors 

may contribute to truancy. High school students may drop 

out "... because they detest school, lack motivation, or 

anticipate little reward from graduation." (See: The Canadian 

Journal of Economics, "The compelling effects of compulsory 


schooling: the evidence from Canada," Prof. Oreopoulos, p. 23, 

(quoting from Eckstein, Zvi, and Kenneth I. Wolpin (1999) 

"Why youths drop out of high school: the impact of preferences, 

opportunities, and abilities," Econometrica 67, 1295-339). 107. As I detail below, students and parents in the United 

States often face the same fines when students fail to attend 

school. Fines for students make more sense when low self- control is the reason for which they fail to attend school. At 

the same time, punishing Indian students who have no choice 

but to work would make no sense. Such a punishment should 

not be borrowed from the United States. 108. In many jurisdictions in the United States, the 

attendance officer is responsible for enforcing compulsory 

attendance laws for his area or school. Given the 

overwhelming problem of sub-par enrolment and attendance 

in India, we doubt that one school official could sufficiently do 

the work of inspecting places of employment for children who 

have violated attendance laws. 109. Indeed, existing legislation in India already envisages the 


employment of attendance officers. The Delhi Primary 

Education Act, 1960 , Sec. 7. Yet, there is nothing to suggest 

that these employees have adequately dealt with truancy. As 

mentioned, this is, in part, due to the economic conditions in 

which many parents find themselves. Financial assistance or 

incentives must be given. Only then, may the Government 

actively enforce compulsory attendance legislation. 110. We must also remember that it is not only the child who 

fails to attend but also the child who fails to enroll that has 

violated an attendance law. 111. Before taking issue with State/Union Territory 

compulsory education statutes, I note that education has 

traditionally been reserved for the States. Only in 1976, vide 

the 42nd Amendment of the Constitution, did education 

become a part of Concurrent List of Schedule 7. In its 165th 

Report, the Law Commission of India has also recommended 

enactment of Central Legislation in this respect. Putting 

education in the Concurrent List turns out to be a positive 

development, given the States' failure to provide effective 

legislation. 112. The States' laws fail on two accounts. First, they are too 

lenient to have a deterrent effect. Second, the legislation is 

not adequately enforced, in part, because it does not require 

police officers to do the job. If we analyze the legislation 

passed by different States, another conclusion becomes 

obvious: no State has provided for an adequate punishment 

whose effect would be to deter citizens from committing a 

violation. 113. It is necessary to reproduce some of the various 

compulsory education laws of the States. 114. Under Section 7 of The Tamil Nadu Compulsory 

Elementary Education Act, 1994: 115. Section 18(1) of The Delhi Primary Education Act, 1960 

states: 116. Analysis of these State laws reveals that they are weak 

in character and perhaps have never been implemented. If we 

compare these laws with their sister statutes in United States, 

we realize that the U.S. laws are far stronger. 117. In Wisconsin, parents who fail to send their children to 

school may have to pay a fine of not more than $500 or face 

imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both. [Wisconsin 

Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) and 118.15(5)(a)1.a]. For a 

second or subsequent offense, they may face a fine of not more 

than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or 

both. [Wisconsin Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) and 118.15(5) (a)1.b]. Alternatively, they may be sentenced to perform 

community service. [Wisconsin Statute Sections 118.15(1)(a) 

and 118.15(5)(a)2] . Unlike Wisconsin, Tamil Nadu and Delhi's laws have no teeth. 118. The other main problem is implementation of these laws. Neither the State Governments nor their police agencies are at 

all serious about implementing these compulsory laws. There 

are hardly any cases where even fines have been imposed. Some form of compulsory education has been on the statute 

books since 1917. We have seen Western countries enforce 

these laws. Most Western countries enjoy almost universal 

literacy while 35% of our population is illiterate. While a 

robust financial incentive programme may not have been 

possible in 1917, it is today. If we wish to develop further, we 

must educate each and every citizen aged six to fourteen. 119. In order to give effect to the constitutional right under Article 21A , it is imperative that the Central Government pass 

suitable legislation. The fine should be suitably increased. Imprisonment should be a sentencing option as well. The 

current patchwork of State/UT legislation on compulsory 

education is insufficient. Small monetary fines do not go far 

enough to ensure the implementation of Article 21A. 120. A disclaimer is attached to these recommendations. The recommendations for the enforcement of compulsory 

education are contingent upon the implementation of a 

financial incentive program that would make education viable 

for the poor. The carrot must come before the stick. If there 

is no financial incentive program in place, the Government 

cannot expect the poorest of the poor to send their children to 

school. 121. The Parliament should criminally penalize those parents 

who receive financial benefits and, despite such payments, 

send their children to work and penalize those employers who 

preclude children from attending school or completing 

homework. It has become necessary that the Government set 

a realistic target within which it must fully implement Article 

21A regarding free and compulsory education for the entire 

country. The Government should suitably revise budget 

allocations for education. The priorities have to be set 

correctly. The most important fundamental right may be Article 21A , which, in the larger interest of the nation, must be 

fully implemented. Without Article 21A , the other fundamental 


rights are effectively rendered meaningless. Education stands 

above other rights, as one's ability to enforce one's 

fundamental rights flows from one's education. This is 

ultimately why the judiciary must oversee Government 

spending on free and compulsory education. 122. At the same time, spending is an area in which the 

judiciary must not overstep its constitutional mandate. The 

power of the purse is found in Part V, Chapter II of the 

Constitution, which is dedicated to the Parliament. (See: Articles 109 and 117 for "Money Bills.") Nevertheless, it 

remains within the judiciary's scope to ensure that the 

fundamental right under Article 21A of Part III is upheld. In M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (vehicular pollution) (1998) 6 

SCC 63, this Court did not ignore the Article 21 right to life 

when deadly levels of pollution put the right at stake. Nor will 

this Court ignore the Article 21A right to education, when a 

dearth of quality schooling put it in jeopardy. The 

Government's education programmes and expenditures, 

wanting in many respects, are an improvement over past 


performance. They nearly fall short of the constitutional 

mark. Lackluster performance in primary/secondary schools 

is caused in part because Government places college students 

on a higher pedestal. Money will not solve all our education 

woes, but a correction of priorities in step with the 

Constitution's mandate will go a long way. 7 Opposition to Compulsory Education 123. "Compulsory" connotes enforcement. The Parliament 

rejected an amendment that would have saved parents from 

penal penalties. If education were not compulsory, who checks 

in with parents who have sent their children to work? If no 

authorities inquire, the message is clear: We, the State, do 

not care if your child goes to school. Taking the opposing 

view, Shri G.M. Banatwalla wanted to make sure parents were 

not punished: 124. The Parliament had the opportunity to accept such a 

definition of "compulsory." But they chose otherwise. Amendment number four, moved by Shri G.M. Banatwalla at 

p. 548, stated that: 1. Of paramount importance, this Amendment was 

"negatived." [See p. 548]. Those who wanted a safe-haven 

from penal sanction for parents lost. From this vote, we know 

that the Parliament intended to allow for future legislation that 

would impose penal sanctions for violations of legislation 

under Article 21A. 7 Conclusion on Free and Compulsory Education 2. Given that so many children drop out of, or are absent 

from, school before they turn fourteen, "free education" alone 

cannot solve the problem. The current patchwork of laws on 


compulsory education is insufficient. Monetary fines do not go 

far enough to ensure that Article 21A is upheld. 3. A carrot-and-stick approach appears to be the best way 

to implement Article 21A. Financial incentive programmes 

have worked well in other countries. We should follow their 

lead. Once that is done, the Government should strictly 

enforce effective compulsory education laws. Such a policy is 

bound to pay off. In sum, the Central Government should enact legislation 

that: 128. With regard to (a), the state cannot cite budgetary 

constraints or lack of resources as an excuse for failing to 

provide financial assistance/incentives to poor parents. See Hussainara Khatoon (supra), at page 107, para 10. 129. Article 21A 's reference to "education" must mean 

something. This conclusion is bolstered by the Parliament's 

Statement of Objects and Reasons for Article 21A: 130. The Article seeks to usher in "the ultimate goal of 

providing universal and quality education." (emphasis 

supplied). Implied within "education" is the idea that it will be 


quality in nature. Current performance indicates that much 

improvement needs to be made before we qualify "education" with "quality." Of course, for children who are out school, 

even the best education would be irrelevant. It goes without 

saying that all children aged six to fourteen must attend 

school and education must be quality in nature. Only upon 

accomplishing both of these goals, can we say that we have 

achieved total compliance with Article 21A. 131. Though progress has been made, the Parliament's 

observation upon passing Art 21A still applies: the goal of 

providing universal and quality education "... still remains 

unfulfilled." 3. D
 oes the 93 rd
 Amendment violate the Basic 

Structure of the Constitution by imposing 

reservation on unaided institutions? 132. Imposing reservation on unaided institutions violates the 

basic structure by obliterating citizens' 19(1)(g) right to carry 

on an occupation. Unaided entities, whether they are 

educational institutions or private corporations, cannot be 


regulated out of existence when they are providing a public 

service like education. That is what reservation would do. That is an unreasonable restriction. When you do not take a 

single paisa of public money, you cannot be subjected to such 

restriction. The 93rd Amendment's reference to unaided 

institutions must be severed. 133. No unaided institution filed a writ petition in this case. Had either this Court or respondents had an objection, they 

could have raised it at any time during the proceedings. We 

listened to the parties for months. We received voluminous 

written submissions from the parties, yet no objection was 

made with regard to the fact that no unaided institution had 

filed a writ petition. While we would usually implead a party if 

we felt their presence was necessary to the resolution of the 

dispute, the facts of this case are peculiar. The best lawyers 

in the country argued the case for both sides, and a brief from 

an unaided institution would not have added much if anything 

to the substance of the arguments. The Government will likely 

target unaided institutions in the future. At that time, this 


Court will have to go through this entire exercise de novo to 

determine if unaided institutions should be subject to 

reservation. Such an exercise would unnecessarily cause 

further delay. The fate of lakhs of students and thousands of 

institutions would remain up in the air. (See: Minerva Mills 

Ltd. & Others v. Union of India & Others (1980) 3 SCC 625). Therefore, looking to the extraordinary facts, I have 

decided to proceed with this aspect of the matter in the larger 

public interest. 134. Amendments by their very nature are often enabling 

provisions. If they clear the way for future legislation that 

would in fact violate the basic structure, the Court need not 

wait for a potential violation to become an actual one. It can 

strike the entire amendment ab initio. The question of 

potential width was resolved in Minerva Mills (supra), paras 

38-39. The Court acknowledged that it generally does not 

anticipate constitutional issues before they arise, but it held 

that circumstances required it to act before unconstitutional 

provisions could be passed under the authority of an 


unconstitutional amendment. [emphasis added]

There is not one precise definition of the width test, however. The test asks if an amendment is so wide that in effect (actual 

or potential), it goes beyond the Parliament's amending power. Kesavananda, paras 531-532: "But that the real 

consequences can be taken into account while judging the 

width of the power is settled. The Court cannot ignore the 

consequences to which a particular construction can lead ..." To make such a determination, it follows that the Court 

should ask whether an amendment infringes constitutional 

limitations as opposed to those evolved from mere common 

law. (See: Nagaraj, para 103). 135. As a preliminary matter, I turn to the cases by which the 

basic structure doctrine has been established. It has been 

stated that, "Kesavananda had propounded the doctrine, the Indira Gandhi Election case had upheld it, and Minerva 

engraved it on stone." (See: Granville Austin, "Working a 

Democratic Constitution", at page 506]. 136. Kesavananda and its progeny provide that an 

amendment to the Constitution must not alter the 

Constitution's basic structure. To reach a conclusion 

regarding a basic structure challenge, I employ the following 

general standard: an amendment alters the basic structure if 


its actual or potential effect would be to damage a facet of the 

basic structure to such an extent that the facet's original 

identity is compromised. 137. To determine if legislation infringes constitutional 

limitations and is thus invalid, we use the two-step effect test 

(also known as the impact or rights test). Step One requires 

us to first ask if legislation affects a facet of the basic 

structure. If it does, then at Step Two we ask if the effect on the facet of 

the structure is to such an extent that the facet's original 

identity has been altered. Applying the effect test is another 

way of saying that the form of an amendment is irrelevant; it 

is the consequence thereof that matters. (See: Kesavanda at 

para 532 and I.R. Coelho v. State of Tamilnadu (2007) 2 

SCC 1 at Conclusion (ii) at page 111). 138. The terms "abridge" and "abrogate" have been employed 

by this Court to distinguish between acceptable and 

unacceptable legislation. Whether legislation abridges or 


abrogates is a question of degree. Using these terms is 

another way of asking whether the legislation had such an 

effect that it changed the basic structure of the Constitution. If legislation merely abridges the basic structure, the 

structure's identity remains. The legislation is upheld. In this 

sense, the Parliament may take away or destroy fundamental 

rights by amending the Constitution, provided that the basic 

structure is not altered. 139. If it abrogates the basic structure, the structure and thus 

the Constitution lose their identities. The legislation must be 

struck down. This is determined on a case-by-case basis by 

applying the effect test (impact/rights tests). (See: Coehlo). I 

further note that a total deprivation of fundamental rights, 

even in one limited area, may amount to an abrogation of the 

basic structure. (See: Minerva Mills, para 59). 7 Step One: Does Article 15(5) affect a facet of 
the basic structure? 140. In the instant case, Article 15(5) expressly precludes the 

application of Article 19(1)(g). Whenever reservations are 


implemented under Article 15(5) , citizens are stripped of their 

fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g). By excluding Article 

19(1)(g) , Article 15(5) obviously affects Article 19(1)(g) , a facet 

of the basic structure of the Constitution. Step One is 

therefore cleared. What is more, Article 19(1)(g) belongs to the 

Golden Triangle - Articles 14 , 19 and 21 are the three 

fundamental rights that stand above the rest. Writing for the 

majority in Minerva Mills, Justice Chandrachud provides an 

eloquent justification for shielding the Golden Triangle from 

attack. To achieve a more egalitarian society, individual 

liberty must be protected: 141. The Golden Triangle's significance becomes clear when 

we consider that Government may suspend Article 14 and 19 rights in order to implement an emergency. (See: Articles 358 and 359 ) (prior to the 44th Amendment, all Part III rights could 

be curtailed during emergency; this Amendment precludes the 

State from denying Articles 20 and 21 to citizens during 

emergency). In a sense, democracy is only restored when the 

Triangle is returned to the citizens. Without the Triangle, 

democracy is impossible: 142. United States Supreme Court Justice Brandeis' word of 

caution is relevant to today's dispute wherein the Government 

trumpets reservation in higher education as an answer to our 


age-old problems of poverty and caste. At first blush, it 

sounds as if reservation in higher education would help the 

backward help themselves. The road out of poverty is paved 

with education. However, the "devil is the details." With 

elementary freedom on the line, I must carefully scrutinize 

those details. 143. The right to freedom under Article 19 has been long 

recognized as a natural and inalienable right that belongs to 

all citizens. Indeed, what would Independence mean without 

it? Chief Justice Sikri cites the following passage in 

Kesavananda at para 300: 144. With fundamental rights in jeopardy, I shall review the 

cases in which the basic structure doctrine has been 

implemented to invalidate constitutional amendments. By 

looking at these cases synoptically, we get a sense as to how 


much damage the basic structure can withstand before 

crumbling. In Kesavananda, the second part of Article 31C precluded courts from reviewing whether a law under Article 

39(b) or (c) promoted the policy for which it was enacted. This 

violated the basic structure. Article 31C was introduced by 

the 25th Amendment. 145. In Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain & Another (1975) Supp SCC 1, the Court struck Article 329A(4) as 

violative of the basic structure. This provision appropriated 

the Court's power to adjudicate election laws, encroaching on 

the judiciary in violation of separation of powers. See Justice 

Matthew's opinion at para 325. It was introduced by the 39th 

Amendment. In Minerva Mills, the Court held sections 4 and 

55 of the 42nd Amendment in violation of the basic structure. Section 4 sought to expand 31C such that all laws giving effect 

to Directive Principles, not just those intended to promote Article 39(b) or (c), would be immune to an Article 14 or 19 

challenge. Section 55 would have barred judicial review of 

constitutional amendments. 146. In P. Sambamurthy v. State of A.P. (1987) 1 SCC 362, 

the Court invalidated Article 371-D(5) , finding that the 

Parliament had violated the rule of law and consequently the 

basic structure, by removing judicial review from the High 

Court and placing it in the hands of one of the parties - the 

State Government. In L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 261, the Court held that Articles 323A-2D and 

323B-3D violated the basic structure in that they removed 

judicial review of the High Courts and Supreme Court under 

Articles 226/227 and 32, respectively. These articles were 

introduced by the 42nd Amendment to empower the Parliament 

or the State Legislatures to establish Tribunals for various 

substantive areas of law: tax, labour, criminal, etc. 147. Two broad themes surface from these cases. When 

judicial review is barred, democracy evaporates. And when 

Fundamental Rights are at stake, they must be harmonized 

with, not made subject to, the Directive Principles. Sections 4 

and 55 of the 42nd Amendment were especially egregious 

violations of the basic structure. Had Section 4 been upheld, 


citizens' fundamental rights would have been at the mercy of 

one organ of Government. "If Governments always could be 

trusted, there would have been no need for Fundamental 

rights." Mr Palkhivala in oral arguments in Kesavananda, 

quoting from the learned Mr H.M. Seervai, who was opposing 

counsel in that case . Mr Palkhivala was reading from Seervai, 

H.M., "Fundamental Rights: A Basic Issue," published in three 

installments in the Times of India, 14, 15, 16 February 1955. (See: Granville Austin at pages 263-264 in "Working a 

Democratic Constitution") 148. Government cannot be trusted; that is precisely why we 

divide its powers into separate organs. If it could be trusted, 

there would be no need for co-equal branches in which power 

is shared. Separation of powers is an axiom of democracy. 149. Had Section 55 of the 42nd Amendment been upheld, the 

basic structure of the Constitution could have been destroyed 

by a single slash. Future constitutional amendments would 

not have been reviewed. The impugned Amendment looks 

rather mild in comparison to the damage that would have 


been wrought by the 42nd Amendment. The impugned 

legislation limits one fundamental right in one limited 

circumstance. Yet an amendment need not be as invidious as 

the 42nd Amendment for us to invalidate it. If the standard 

were that high, amendments could destroy the basic structure 

or the essence of the Constitution by a thousand slashes. 150. Since Kesavananda's time, many amendments have 

been passed and many challenges under the basic structure 

have been made. This Court has used caution and has 

refrained from using the doctrine, even when it may have been 

justified. For example, there were grounds for striking the 

entire 10th Schedule as violative of the basic structure in 

Kihoto Hollohan v Zachillhu & Others 1992 Supp (2) SCC 651. Rather than resort to the basic structure, this Court 

made a narrow ruling on procedural grounds. (See: S.P. 

Sathe, Judicial Activism in India: Transgressing Borders and 

Enforcing Limits, 2nd Edn., 2002 (Oxford University Press) 

pages 92-93). The Court upheld the 10th Schedule, only 

severing a paragraph from the same. I agree that an 


abundance of caution ought to be taken before employing the 

basic structure doctrine. The violation must truly abrogate 

the basic structure. Anything short of this standard must be 

upheld - the will of the people, through their elected 

representatives, heard. 151. Before making such a determination, it is prudent to 

briefly revisit the rulings of two landmark cases: P.A. 

Inamdar & Others v. State of Maharashtra & Others , 

(2005) 6 SCC 537; T.M.A. Pai Foundation & Others v. State 

of Karnataka & Others (2002) 8 SCC 481. In Inamdar (supra), paras 26-27 (seven-Judge Bench), unaided (minority 

and non-minority) professional institutions filed petitions to 

determine, inter alia, whether the State could impose quotas 

on unaided (minority and non-minority) institutions. A seven- Judge Bench was constituted such that Islamic Academy's 

clarification of Pai could be reviewed. Islamic Academy was 

a five-Judge Bench. Given that Pai was an eleven-Judge 

Bench, Inamdar could clarify but not overrule Pai. 152. At para 124, Inamdar held that the State cannot impose 

quotas on unaided (minority and non-minority) institutions. To do so would nationalize seats, contrary to Pai. (See: Inamdar at para 125). In dictum, Pai suggested that the 

State could compel unaided institutions to admit a reasonable 

percentage of students via reservation. (Pai, para 68). Inamdar clarified this point, stating that Pai should be read 

to mean that the State and unaided institutions may enter 

into consensual agreement regarding reservation. (See: Inamdar at para 126). Unaided institutions (minority and 

non-minority) can admit as they choose, provided their 

process is fair, transparent, non-exploitative and merit-based. Inamdar stated: To the extent that Islamic Academy had approved of quotas 

in unaided institutions, a scheme in which the States could fix 

quota for seat sharing between management and the State, 

Islamic was overruled. [Inamdar at para 130] 153. In T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) para 2 (eleven- Judge 

Bench), private educational institutions, aided and unaided, 

filed writ petitions to challenge regulations that impeded their 

rights. They wanted to establish and administer educational 

institutions, unfettered by Government interference. [para 2]. Reading Article 29(2) and 30(1) harmoniously, the six-Justice 

majority held that (1) unaided institutions could admit 

students free of Government interference, as long as their 

admission process was transparent and merit-based; (2) 

minority aided institutions may still admit their own students, 

contingent upon admitting a reasonable number of non- minority students per the percentage provided by the State 

Government. 154. For our purposes, it is important to note that education 

falls within the meaning of "occupation" under 19(1)(g). This 

is so because a large number of persons are employed as 

teachers and administrative staff. For them, education is an 

occupation. Pai stated: A
 rticle 1
 9(1)(g) uses the four expressions so as to cover all 

activities of a citizen in respect of which income or profit is 

generated, and which can consequently be regulated under 

A
 rticle 1
 9(6) . 25 The establishment and running of an educational 

institution where a large number of persons are employed as 

teachers or administrative staff, and an activity is carried on 

that results in the imparting of knowledge to the students, 

must necessarily be regarded as an occupation, even if there is 

no element of profit generation. It is difficult to comprehended 

that education, per se, will not fall under any of the four 

expressions in Article 19(1)(g). "Occupation" would be an 

activity of a person undertaken as a means of livelihood or a 

mission in life. ..." [emphasis added] 155. Stripping private unaided institutions of their right to 

select students would be unreasonable: 156. Like Article 15(5) in the instant case, Unni Krishnan 

effectively nationalized education. Pai overturned Unni 

Krishnan. (See: para 45). nationalizing education in respect of important features, viz., 

the right of a private unaided institution to give admission and 

to fix the fee. By framing this scheme, which has led to the 

State Governments legislating in conformity with the scheme 

the private institutions are undistinguishable from the 

Government institutions; curtailing all the essential features of 

the right of administration of a private unaided educational 

institution can neither be called fair or reasonable." 157. Pai traces the autonomy of institutions back to 

Chitralekha and Rajendran. The proposition is simple: he 

who funds or runs the institution holds the power to select 

students. The State cannot ask these institutions to abridge 

this right in exchange for affiliation/recognition. The relevant 

paragraphs are reproduced hereunder: The aforesaid observations clearly underscore the right of the 

colleges to frame rules for admission and to admit students. The only requirement or control is that the rules for admission 

must be subject to the rules of the university as to eligibility 

and qualifications. The Court did not say that the university 

could provide the manner in which the students were to be 

selected. 61. In the case of unaided private schools, maximum 

autonomy has to be with the management with regard to 

administration, including the right of appointment, 


disciplinary powers, admission of students and the fees to be 

charged." 158. Unaided institutions may admit students of their choice, 

subject to an objective and rational procedure of selection. They might admit a small percentage of students belonging to 

the weaker sections of the society by granting those sections 

freeships or scholarships, if not granted by the Government. [See: Pai at para 53]. Given a transparent and reasonable 

selection process, it is up to the institution to define "merit" according to its own values. Pai stated: 159. The Court distinguishes between reasonable and 

unreasonable regulations by asking which functions lie at the 

heart of an institution's autonomy. Regulations that strike at 

the core of autonomy are unreasonable. For example, 

prescribing minimum qualifications for teachers is a 

reasonable regulation; actually selecting the teachers is not. 160. The same argument was framed in similar terms in St. 

Stephen's College v. University of Delhi , 1992 (1) SCC 558. In that case, the Court distinguished regulations based on 

whether they directly or indirectly affected management. Those that indirectly affected management were reasonable; those that directly affected the management of the institution 

were not. [Pai at para 125]. 161. In St. Stephen's, this Court referred to the earlier 

decisions, and with regard to Article 30(1) observed at page 

596, paragraph 54, as follows: 162. Once a private institution (non-minority) takes aid, it is 

subject to (1) reservation and (2) regulation of administration 


and maintenance of the institution. Pai stated: 163. I now query if the Parliament may subject Article 19(1)(g) to Article 15(5) , when this Court has held that reservation in 

unaided institutions is an unreasonable restriction that 

cannot be saved by Article 19(6). 164. I answer this question in the affirmative. The structure 

of our Constitution permits fundamental rights, and even the 

Golden Triangle of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 , to be abridged in 

limited circumstances. To say that subjecting Articles 19(1)(g) to 15(5) violates the basic structure per se is to ignore the 

examples in which the most fundamental of rights is limited. Article 16(4) expressly limits the right to formal equality in 

16(1), a specific facet of Article 14. In this light, Article 16(4) impliedly limits the general right to formal equality in Article 14 . The right to equality is expressed in the negative in 15(1): the 

State shall not discriminate based on religion, race, caste, etc. 

In other words, the State shall treat citizens of different 

religions, races and castes equally. Like Article 16(4) , Article 

15(4) limits 15(1) -- another facet of Article 14 formal equality -- such that egalitarian equality may be pursued. Generally 

speaking, Articles 15(3) and (4) and 16(4) allow the State to 

impose affirmative action programs on the public sector. Such 

provisions necessarily limit the right to formal equality. If the 

right to equality, considered by some as a basic postulate of 

the Constitution, has been limited, a fortiori Article 19(1)(g) can be too. 165. Along these lines, I could turn to Articles 31A , 31B and 31C for further support. Those Articles exclude challenges 

under Articles 14 and 19. In agreement with Dr. Dhavan's 

submission, I decline to rely on Articles 31A , 31B and 31C for 


support. As explained in Minerva Mills, the Court had 

previously upheld Article 31A out of concern for stare decisis. The Court never approved of the exclusion of Articles 14 and 19 on a principled basis. Nor did it make a ruling as to 

whether the exclusion violated the basic structure. (See: para 

71-72 of Minerva Mills. See also para 43 of Waman Rao, 

(1981) 2 SCC 362). 166. A basic structure challenge becomes an issue of 

institutional competence. Is it for the legislature to decide 

what is a reasonable restriction under 19(1)(g) read with 19(6)? Or is it for the judiciary? It is well established that the 

Parliament, expressing the will of the people, may enact 

amendments to overrule a judgment of this Court. The First 

Parliament added Article 15(4) to the Constitution to overrule 

State of Madras v. Champakam Dorairajan, AIR 1951 SC 226. Other examples include the 77th Amendment, which 

overruled Sawhney I by adding Article 16(4-A); the 81st 

Amendment further overruled Sawhney I by adding Art 16 

(4-B); the 82nd Amendment overruled S. Vinod Kumar & 


Another v. Union of India & Another (1996) 6 SCC 580 by 

amending Article 335; and the 85th Amendment overruled 

Virpal Singh Chauhann and Ajit Singh I by amending Article 16(4-A) , (1995) 6 SCC 684 and (1996) 2 SCC 715, 

respectively. Nevertheless, the duty to interpret the content of 

our fundamental rights has been left to the Courts. "The 

important point to be noted is that the content of a right is 

defined by the Courts. The final word on the content of the 

right is of this Court." (Nagaraj at para 21). (emphasis added). While the Parliament may amend the Constitution, it cannot 

alter the Constitution's basic structure. (See: Kesavananda, 

Indira Nehru Gandhi (Election Case), Minerva Mills, 

Sambamurthy, L. Chandra Kumar and Coelho). 7 Step Two: Does Article 15(5) affect Article 
19(1)(g) to such an extent that Article 19(1)(g) 's 

original identity has been altered? 167. In other words, does Art 15(5) in effect merely abridge or 

completely abrogate Article 19(1)(g). If the former, 15(5) 

stands. If the latter, it falls. As noted above, Coelho directs 

me to apply the impact/rights test to determine whether the 


basic structure has been violated. [See Coehlo at Conclusion (ii) at page 111]. Thus, my query is whether to consider the 

impact on the entire constitutional framework, or to examine 

the effect on citizens engaged in unaided education as an 

occupation. I think it is the latter. I am not concerned here 

with those engaged in education in aided institutions. One is 

naturally subject to greater regulation when one relies on 

Government funding. (See: Pai/Inamdar). Individual liberty 

and freedom, as protected by the Golden Triangle, must carry 

greater weight for those who set off on their own and refuse 

Government money. 168. This brings me to the question as to how large I should 

draw the circle when I ask who is affected by reservation in 

unaided institutions. Justice Chandrachud provides that "[a] 

total deprivation of fundamental rights, even in a limited area, 

can amount to abrogation of fundamental right just as a 

partial deprivation in every area can." (See: Minerva Mills, 

para 59). 169. Freedom under Article 19 belongs to individual citizens. Article 19(1)(g) provides that "all citizens shall have the right to 

practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade 

or business." The reference to "all citizens" means that each 

and every individual citizen possesses Article 19 rights. For 

the impugned legislation to fall, it need not touch every sphere 

of society. If even one individual's freedom has been curtailed, 

this Court is duty bound to entertain his or her claim. It is he 

or she who possesses the Article 19(1)(g) right to carry on an 

occupation. 170. If 15(5) were implemented, the educator in unaided 

institutions would still have students to educate. I use 

"educator" in the broadest sense of the term and include 

teachers, professors, lecturers, faculty, staff, administrators 

and those who finance institutions. Without one of the 

aforementioned, the institution cannot function properly. 171. Though affected by reservation, the educator still has a 

job. His occupation remains intact. Students will come. Classes will commence. Marks will be distributed. The 

greatest impact on the educator is that neither he nor his 


institution will choose whom to teach. 172. Almost half of the time (49.5%), the State would decide 

for them. Selecting students or employees goes to the heart of 

an organization's autonomy. The essence of an unaided 

educational institution is the freedom to manage its affairs, 

according to Pai at paragraph 55. That is, "... the essential 

ingredients of the management of the private institution 

include the recruiting [of] students and staff ... ." The same 

argument was framed in similar terms (at para 54) in St. 

Stephen's College (regulations imposing standards of 

education upheld, because they "... do not bear directly upon 

management although they may indirectly affect it ..."). This 

Court has stated in Pai as clarified by Inamdar that 

subjecting unaided institutions is an unreasonable restriction. As noted, Article 19(6) provides no safe haven for reservations. 173. The Government-imposed selection of students in turn 

has wide-ranging consequences for unaided institutions and 

their educators. I am required to examine the effect of the 

impugned Amendment. At least four problems will likely arise: 174. First, once the State tells them whom to teach, standards 

of excellence will suffer. This is because those institutions will 

no longer be able to admit the highest-scoring students. As 

good as some of our institutions are, they do not teach blank 

slates. The best universities are the best, in part, because 

they attract the best students. The same can be said for 

almost any organization. In the case of higher education, the 

universities that admit the best will likely churn out the best. The precise extent to which the university made the best so 

good cannot be qualified. The point is that universities alone 

cannot produce qualified job candidates. Forced to admit 

students with lower marks, the university's final product will 

not be as strong. Once the creamy is excluded, cut-off marks 

would likely drop considerably in order to fill the 27% quota 


for non creamy layer OBCs. When the creamy layer is not 

removed, as in the case of Tamil Nadu, the difference in cut off 

marks for the general and backward categories may be 

insignificant. (See para 408 of Sawhney I). Of course, the 

extent to which standards of excellence would suffer would 

vary by institution. As I mention below, I urge the 

Government to set OBC cut off marks no lower than 10 marks 

below that of the general category. This is only a 

recommendation, however. It may never be adopted. 175. Second, reservations weaken the incentive to establish 

unaided institutions: if the State usurps the right to select 

students, would one still spend the time and money to 

establish an unaided institution? The question is all the more 

relevant today. Counsel for petitioners posit that tomorrow's 

knowledge economy requires a well-educated populace. "Well- educated" does not imply a string of degrees from less than 

taxing institutions. Rather, it means that one will possess the 

skills, knowledge and creativity to compete globally. Our 

unaided institutions must remain places where these traits 


are refined. 176. Third, those inclined to teach the brightest students have 

even less of a reason to leave private sector jobs for the 

teaching profession or to join the profession in the first place. 177. Given the dramatic effect that reservations would have on 

educators, the unaided institutions in which they teach and, 


consequently, society as a whole, Article 19(1)(g) has been 

more than abridged. When education is effectively 

nationalized, freedom stands obliterated. The identity of the 

Constitution is altered when unreasonable restrictions make a 

fundamental right meaningless. The 93rd Amendment's 

imposition of reservation on unaided institutions has 

abrogated Article 19(1)(g) , a basic feature of the Constitution, 

in violation of our Constitution's basic structure. Therefore, I

sever the 93rd Amendment's reference to "unaided" institutions 

as ultra vires of the Constitution. 178. The case law on severability asks the following question: 179. At page 943 of R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla (supra), the 

Court relied in part on The State of Bombay & Another v. F.N. Balsara (1951) SCR 682, where the question at issue 

was whether the Bombay Prohibition Act was valid: 180. At page 944, the court in R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla 

sought guidance from American case law on severability: 181. The court in R.M.D Chambarbaugwalla went on to cite 

Patanjali Sastri, C.J., in The State of Bombay & Another v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. & Others (1953) SCR 1069: 182. Here, I believe the Parliament would have gone forward 

without unaided institutions. While some Members of 

Parliament sought to overrule Pai and Inamdar, the 

Parliament's actions speak louder than its words. Once it had 

passed Article 15(5) , it limited itself to imposing greater 

reservations on aided institutions. Had unaided institutions 

been the Parliament's priority, it could have included them in 


the Reservation Act. It seems that the Parliament's intent is to 

pass as much reservation as possible. That would explain why 

it has gone forward with 27% reservation for OBCs without 

confirming that at least 27% of the population is OBC. For 

these reasons, I conclude that had the Parliament known that 

unaided institutions were going to be severed, it would have 

nevertheless carried out its reservation scheme for aided 

institutions. 1. Th
 e Casteless and Classless Society versus 

Caste-based Reservation: They show us how that society has dealt with the problem of 

racial discrimination. At the outset, I would like to make it 

clear that decisions of foreign countries are not binding on 


Indian courts. Indian Courts have not adopted American 

standards of review. But the judgments delivered by U.S. 

courts on affirmative action have great persuasive value and 

they may provide broad guidelines as to how we should tackle 

our prevailing condition. A large number of English laws have 

been inherited by India and America. English and American 

cases are frequently cited by our courts. We need to keep our 

window open and permit the light of knowledge to enter from 

any source. In this light, I shall refer to some US decisions. 7 Affirmative Action cases and standards of 
review from the United States: Bakke put an end to reservation ("quotas") in education 

(reserving 16 out of 100 seats for minorities in medical school 

deemed unconstitutional). (438 U.S. 265). Justice Powell's 

concurring judgment is considered the key opinion in the 

case. 185. Justice Powell concluded that diversity was a compelling 

State interest that could withstand strict scrutiny. Relying on 


Bakke, the court later reaffirmed preferential treatment in 

college admissions as a means to ensure diversity in the 

classroom - racial diversity being just one among many types 

of diversity ("overcoming personal adversity and family 

hardship" was another form of diversity), (See: Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U. S. 306, 338 (2003)). The Grutter Case 

insisted that universities make an individualized evaluation of 

a student seeking admission, rather than one that 

mechanically accepted or rejected students on the basis of 

race. (Grutter at 337). Such an evaluation would ensure that 

race was only considered as one type of diversity, rather than 

a pretext for achieving racial balance. Quotas could not be 

covertly installed in the name of diversity. This reasoning led 

the court to strike down an admission scheme that 

automatically assigned more points to minority students than 

to residents of the State or to athletes, for example. (Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 244, 270). 186. Justice O'Conner for the majority in Grutter came to a 

very significant conclusion. She suggested that there was time 


limit on preferential treatment for certain races as a means of 

promoting diversity. Justice O'Connor stated: "we expect that 

25 years from now, the use of racial preferences will no longer 

be necessary to further the interest approved today." 187. In Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle 

School District No.1 et al, reported in 168 Lawyers Ed. 2d 

508 & 517 (2007), school districts used a student's race to 

assign that student to a particular school within the district. In Seattle, this was done to achieve racial balance amongst the 

district's schools. One school should not be overwhelmingly 

white, another all non-white. Unlike the system approved in 

Grutter, race was not just one among many types of diversity 

that was considered by the district in assigning students. Seattle at 525. Instead, it was, at times, the decisive factor. The court held the programmes unconstitutional. Chief 

Justice Roberts summed up the plurality's view on racial 

classifications: "the way to stop discrimination on the basis of 

race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race." 188. This was far from a complete victory for the plurality. In 

his concurring opinion, Justice Kennedy found the 

programmes unconstitutional. However, he would not go so 

far as to treat all racial balancing as per se unconstitutional. He considered the plurality opinion to represent "... an all-too- unyielding insistence that race cannot be a factor in instances, 

when, in [his] view, it may be taken into account." (Seattle at 565). 189. Justice Kennedy found that schools have a compelling 

interest to prevent racial isolation or achieve a diverse student 

population. (Seattle at 572). Like Justice Powell's concurring 

opinion in Bakke, Justice Kennedy's concurring opinion 

leaves the door open for further use of racial classification for 

so-called benign purposes in school admissions. 190. More important than any one case are the standards by 

which the court scrutinized discriminatory legislation. Of 

course, Indian courts have not accepted the principles of 

narrow tailoring and strict scrutiny. Nevertheless, we should 


seek guidance from any corner and permit the light from any 

quarter. 191. Whenever legislation is challenged as unconstitutional, 

courts must ask themselves how much deference they will give 

to the legislature. The answer is that it depends on the nature 

of the impugned legislation. The United States Supreme Court 

has evolved three standards of review for Government action 

that treats different people differently. The first is the rational 

basis standard. When the classification is rationally related to 

any legitimate Government purpose, the court defers to the 

State and upholds the classification. This is the most 

deferential of the three standards. The second standard is 

intermediate scrutiny, which is less deferential to Government. Here, the court asks whether the classification is substantially 

related to any important Government purpose. The third and 

highest level of review is known as strict scrutiny, whereby the 

court requires that the classification are narrowly tailored to a 

compelling state interest. Strict scrutiny test is the least 

deferential to Government. 192. Of the classifications on which there is case law, the one 

that most closely resembles caste is race. This is because 

both are immutable traits. They are used by the powerful, or 

those seeking power, to justify oppression. Racism and 

casteism have long haunted both Nations. In the United 

States, race raises red flags. It is often, though not always, 

reviewed under strict scrutiny: "Government action dividing 

people by race is inherently suspect because such 

classifications promote `notions of racial inferiority and lead to 

a politics of racial hostility,' (Croson at 102 L. Ed. 2d 854) and 

"racial classifications are simply too pernicious to permit any 

but the most exact connection between the justification and 

the classification." (Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S. 244, 270 

(quoting J. Stevens' dissent in Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 

U.S. 448, 537)). 193. Legislation whose text does not classify based on race is 

considered facially neutral. When facially neutral legislation 

has a disproportionate impact on a particular race, American 

courts ask whether it was passed with an intention to 


discriminate. If no intention is found, the rational basis test 

applies. [See: Hernandez v New York, 500 U.S. 352 (1991) 

(quoting from Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing 

Development Corp., 429 U.S. 252, 264-265 (1977)]: See also Washington v. Davis, 426 U.S. 229, 239 (1976). The 

exception to this rule is Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356 

(1886), where extreme disproportionate impact warranted 

greater scrutiny. Where there is disproportionate impact and 

discriminatory intention, then even facially neutral legislation 

triggers strict scrutiny. However, in this framework, 

affirmative action classifies on the face of legislation and 

automatically gets strict scrutiny treatment. 194. As I have observed, American courts carefully review 

racial classifications. Given that the 93rd Amendment on its 

face discriminates against general category students, we 


should give it careful scrutiny. The Article 14 right to formal 

equality deserves as much. If 49.5% caste-based reservation 

was upheld in Sawhney I for Government employment, it 

follows that 49.5% caste-based reservation is permitted in 

aided educational institutions. While I compelled by 

Sawhney I to hold that the impugned legislation passes 

careful scrutiny with respect to reservation in aided 

institutions, its implementation is contingent upon the 

directions given in this opinion. 7 The Framers' ultimate goal: the Classless and 
Casteless society: In Sawhney I, the Court upheld this decision and bound us to 

a certain degree on this point. I have no choice but to uphold 

the impugned legislation by which the Government may still 

identify SEBCs, in part, by using caste. 196. Caste-based reservation was initially a temporary 

measure that was to only last for ten years. The original 

Framers considered caste-based reservation a necessary evil. Thus, they limited it in time. Extending this time limit has 

only exacerbated casteism. 197. The Parliamentary Debates clearly reflect that the 

ultimate aim of reservation was a casteless and classless 

society for India. To this end, reservation should only be given 

for a specific period of time. If these reservations or benefits 

have to continue perpetually, then the basic goal of achieving 

casteless and classless society would never be accomplished. 198. The need for caste-based reservation has "worn out" over 

time. Evidence for the proposition that caste is no longer a 

valid determinant of one's ability to move up in society is 


strong. More than the way society judges you based on caste, 

the relevant question is whether caste precludes you from 

rising. If caste doesn't, then what does? The answer is 

simple: money. 199. Income is a much better determinant of educational 

achievement than caste. The table below was derived from the 

Reproductive Child and Health Survey, 2002-2004 (600,000 

households surveyed). Average years of schooling: indicate that it is one's income, not caste, that makes a real 

difference in determining how much schooling one completes. Therefore, if income be the bar to education, economic criteria 

should be the means by which we identify beneficiaries of 

special provisions under Article 15(5). 7 No original intent to provide caste-based 
quotas in education: The Constitution contains a number of Articles that reserve 

seats for various groups. The original Framers, however, 

imposed various limitations on reservation. These limitations 

provide insight into the original Framers' compromise between 

formal and substantial/egalitarian equality. 201. Reservation is only provided for certain groups (SC, ST 

and backward classes) in certain areas of the public sector. (See: Article 16(4) (reservation of posts in Government service 

for backward classes) , Article 330 (reservation of seats for SC and ST in the Lok Sabha) and Article 332 (reservation of seats 

for SC and ST in Legislative Assemblies of the States)). 202. Dr Ambedkar stated that "the report of the Minorities 

Committee provided that all minorities should have two 

benefits or privileges, namely representation in the legislatures 

and representation in the services." (emphasis added) (See: CAD, 26 August 1949, vol. 9, p. 702). Given this limitation, 

we must take extra caution when reviewing the 

constitutionality of adding additional benefits. 203. Article 334 fixed a 10-year time limit on the legislative 

reservations provided in Articles 330 and 332. In the 

discussion regarding draft Article 292 , Sardar Hukam Singh 

said, "we are accepting this reservation of seats [in legislative 

bodies] as an unavoidable evil for the present, thought it is 

only for the Scheduled Castes and scheduled tribes." ( See: p. 645, Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 9, 24 August 1949). 204. Shri Singh's comment sums up the limitations on 

legislative reservation. OBC/SEBCs were excluded, and 

reservations were limited in time. Unlike the legislative 

reservations, Article 16(4) contains no fixed time limit. It does, 

however, preclude the State from making reservations in 

Government service if the backward classes are adequately 

represented. The idea is that, at some point in time, the 

backward classes would no longer need reservations. 205. In discussing draft Article 10 (Article 16 (4) of the 

Constitution), Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru stated: (emphasis supplied) 

Instead of moving to remove reservations, the Parliament has 

gone the other way by extending time limits and adding 

beneficiaries. Article 15(5) is just the latest example. 206. While the original Framers went out of their way to put 

SC/ST in the Parliament and State Assemblies and 

SC/ST/backward classes in Government service, they did not 

reserve a single classroom seat. Instead, Article 29(2) prohibited caste-based discrimination in admissions, and Article 15(2) prohibited caste-based discrimination in general. Education was to remain reservation-free. 207. When preferential treatment was given in regard to 


education, it was limited to educational grants. There was no 

question of doling out reservations for special groups. Article 

337 provided educational grants to Anglo-Indian schools for 

the benefit of that community. In the spirit of conciliation, the 

original Framers allowed the grants that were already going to 

those schools to continue for 10 years. (See: p 936-941 of 

Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 8 1949). 208. Rather than advocate for reservation, the original 

Framers preferred free/compulsory education and 

scholarships. In the debate on Draft Article 294 , Shri 

Brajeshwar Prasad stated that reservation in legislative bodies 

would fail to uplift SC/ST. Instead, he suggested that: (emphasis supplied) 209. Shri Prasad's comments are relevant because he 

recognizes the limited effect of reservation. Rather than 

reserve seats for a few, he advocated for free education for all. 210. In the debate regarding Article 15 of the Constitution, 

Syed Abdur Rouf summed up the essence of the provision: (emphasis supplied) 211. Relevant to the instant case, he explains that his 

amendment would allow the State to provide SC/ST special 

treatment in regard to education. In other words, Prof. Shah 

effectively wanted the equivalent to 15(4) and 15(5) but did not 

get it. His amendment was negated. (p. 664 of Constituent 

Assembly Debates, Vol. 7, 29 November, 1948). 212. Dr. Ambedkar disagreed with Prof. Shah on the limited 

ground that it would have given States the green light to 

segregate SC/ST from general category students: 213. Dr Ambedkar did not reject the Shah amendment 


because it would have allowed the States to implement 

affirmative action for SC/ST in education. He was concerned 

that special provisions would lead to negative discriminatory 

action in the guise of affirmative action. Whether or not this 

would have happened is unclear, but his concern seems well 

placed. A similar problem arises today, when the general 

category looks down upon or questions the qualifications of 

SC/ST/OBC professionals. Though the individual may have 

earned admission on marks alone, others may presume that 

reservation was a factor. Such a belief, regardless of veracity, 

cannot bode well for the career prospects of SC/ST/SEBCs. Irrespective of the reason for which the Shah amendment was 

rejected, the original Framers contemplated special provisions 

for SC/ST that would have included education. At the end of 

the day, they decided that only women and children should 

benefit from discriminatory provisions. 214. Article 15(4) and the Shah amendment only differ in that Article 15(4) provides special provisions to SC/ST and SEBC, 

while Shah only gave the same to SC/ST. Of course, if the 


original Framers rejected special provisions for SC/ST, they 

would have done the same with respect to SEBC/SC/ST. In 

sum, by limiting Article 15(3) to women and children and 

rejecting an amendment equivalent to Article 15(4) , the 

original Framers' intent was clear: no special provisions for 

backward classes (SEBC/SC/ST) in education were to dilute Article 15(1) 's prohibition against discrimination based on 

caste. 215. In the instant case, the Union of India argued that Article 

15(4) , the First Amendment to the Constitution, reflects the 

intent of the original Framers because it was passed by the 

same members that drafted the original Constitution. In the 

Parliamentary debates in 1951, Prime Minister Nehru argued 

in favour amending the Constitution. He and other Framers, 

as distinguished from the original Framers who had drafted 

the original Constitution, did not hide their disapproval of Champakam Dorairajan (supra). Article 15(4) was to 

overturn that judgment. To justify Article 15(4) , which 

represented a dramatic departure from equality as envisaged 


in Articles 15(2) , (3) and 29(2) , Pandit Nehru said that Article 

15(4) would give effect to "what ... was really intended or 

should be intended." Yet, the original Framers, as explained 

above, had no intention of providing special provisions for 

SC/ST in education (and a fortiori if not for them, nor for 

SEBC). What "should be intended" is a far cry from what they 

specifically enacted and specifically rejected. It follows that Article 15(4) deviated from the original Framers' original 

intent. 7 Limitations on Reservation must be seen in 
the light of providing a casteless society: [Cornerstone at page 27, fn. 5 (quoting from Prasad in CAD V, 

I, 2)]. The original Framers took steps to abolish caste-based 

distinction. For example, they outlawed untouchability in Article 17 , promised all equal treatment before the law in Article 14 , prohibited discrimination based on caste in 15(1) 

and 29(2) and selected joint over separate electorates. The 

legislative reservations for SC/ST were an exception to 

overarching goal of creating a casteless society; that is why 

they were set to expire in 1960. With respect to electorates, 

Granville Austin explains: (emphasis added) 

The same can be said today. Reservation based on caste 

strengthens communalism. Non-SEBCs naturally seek SEBC 

status so that they may capture SEBC benefits. Upper castes, 

denied a seat, harbor ill will against lower castes who gain 

admission (whether it was by merit or not). 218. These feelings are the basis for discriminatory action. On 

16 September 2006, The Hindu reported: "While medical 

students at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) 

have complained of caste discrimination, now doctors from the 

reserved category at the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTBH) 

too have written about `biased attitude towards reserved 

category junior residents'." 219. Discrimination is not the only problem exacerbated by 

reservation. Given that reserved category students gain 

admission with lower marks, it also stands to reason that they 

would exhibit less confidence in their studies when pitted 

against the general category. In her work on the unintended 

consequences of preferential treatment for minorities in college 


admissions in the United States, Marie Gryphon, a policy 

analyst for the Cato Institute (Washington, D.C.), writes: 220. To rid ourselves of reservation and its unintended 

consequences like casteism, we must focus our efforts on 

strengthening education at the primary and secondary level. Only then will we achieve the casteless/classless society the 

original Framers envisaged. And only then will there be 

reason to scrap reservation altogether. 221. In his speeches to the Parliament regarding 15(4), Prime 

Minister Nehru could not have been clearer: "After all the 

whole purpose of the Constitution, as proclaimed in the 

Directive Principles is to move towards what I may say a 

casteless and classless society" ... and in an attempt to 

achieve an egalitarian society, "... we want to put an end to all 

those infinite divisions that have arisen in our social life; I am 

referring to the caste system and other religious divisions, call 

them by whatever name you like." (emphasis added). [Parliamentary Debates on 13 June, 1951 and 29 May, 1951 

respectively]. 7 If reservation is allowed, then how can a 


casteless society still be realized? 222. This raises the issue of how beneficiaries of special 

provisions are to be classified. As mentioned above, Mr Salve 

and other learned counsel for petitioners pleaded that the 

Government cannot go forward with the Reservation Act when 

it has yet to identify its beneficiaries. No one can say with 

certainty what percentage of the population is OBC, yet the 

Government is content with giving OBCs 27% of the seats in 

universities. We do not know what proportion of the 

population is OBC because the census does not count OBCs. It has been Central Government policy practically since 

Independence to avoid the question. Eminent American 

Professor Mark Galanter writes that the absence of caste data 

was the deliberate policy of Sardar Patel, the Home Minister 

until 1950. Mr. Patel rejected caste tabulation as a device to 

confirm the British theory that India was a caste-ridden 

country and as an expedient "to meet the needs of 

administrative measures dependent on caste division" (See: Professor Marc Galanter, (1978)"Who are the OBCs?" An 

Introduction to a Constitutional Puzzle. 13 Economic and 


Political Weekly 1812 at page 1824 at footnote 78 (quoting 

from Mr. Patel's 1950 address to the census conference). Taking an OBC census is horrifying because it encourages 

Government to enact policy on the basis of caste. Doing so 

only furthers the caste-divide, contrary to our constitutional 

aim. This has been recognized since 1950. If the Central 

Governments have consistently rejected an OBC census 

because it would promote casteism, how can this Central 

Government make reservation on the same ground? It is one 

thing to ask a citizen his caste, it is even worse to grant or 

reject his college application on that ground. The Government 

is between a rock and a hard place. The only way out is to use 

exclusively economic criteria. This would negate the need for a 

caste-based census while ensuring that reservation go to the 

poor, the group for which the Reservation Act was purportedly 

passed. The Parliament eventually settled on enabling States 

to provide provisions for "socially and educationally backward 

classes." Article 15(4). This Court has interpreted "backward 

classes" to include caste as one of the criteria of classification 

under Article 16(4). Sahwney I, para 859(3)(b). In other 


words, caste falls under class according to Sawheny I, para 

859(3)(a). 7 Economic criteria allows for reservation on 
grounds other than caste: based discrimination. Ultimately, they subjected Articles 29(2) and Article 15 to Article 15(4). Dr. Ambedkar saw no choice 

but to discriminate based on caste, stating that "if you make a 

reservation in favour of what are called backward classes 

which are nothing else but collection of certain castes, those 

who are excluded are persons who belong to certain castes. Therefore, in the circumstances of this country, it is 

impossible to avoid reservation without excluding some people 

who have got a caste." 224. In draft article 10 , Dr. Ambedkar tried to reconcile the 

view of those who were in favour of equality of opportunity 

with the demand of certain communities who remained 

neglected and who wanted to have a share in the 


administration. In doing so, he was clear that the concept of 

equality, which is the very basis of democracy, should not be 

violated. Part of his compromise meant that reservation had 

to remain reasonable. Explaining his views on the matter, he 

said: 225. On 17th November, 1949, the Constituent Assembly 

began the third reading of the Constitution Bill. While 

replying to the debate, Dr. Ambedkar stated: (emphasis supplied). 226. Exhibiting tunnel vision, our First Parliament failed to 

look beyond caste. Another option was available, an option 

that adhered to the original Framers' ideals. Contrary to Dr 

Ambedkar's view, it was possible to provide reservation to 

backward classes without discriminating based on caste. Economic criteria target the poorest of the poor, irrespective of 

caste. As noted, these criteria also simultaneously remove the 

creamy layer. 227. One of the other prominent advocates of reservation later 

realised that the policy did more harm than good. Prime 

Minister Nehru wrote the following letter to the Chief Ministers 

on June 27th, 1961: 7 Upon expiry of the time limit, the criteria for 


identifying OBCs should only be economic in 

nature because our ultimate aim is to establish a 

casteless and classless society 228. I am not the first to propose economic criteria as the 

exclusive means of identifying SEBCs. In Vasanth Kumar 's 

case, counsel sought an opinion from the Court regarding 

reservations in employment and education for SC/STs and 

OBCs. The opinion would guide the Karnataka Government in 

implementing reservation. [para 1]. It serves our purposes to 

review their thorough analysis of the identification issue. 229. The Court in Vasanth Kumar observed as under: 230. In this judgment, this Court further observed that if State 

patronage for preferred treatment accepts caste as the only 

insignia for determining social and educational backwardness, 


the danger looms large that this approach alone would 

legitimize and perpetuate the caste system. Caste-based 

reservation does not go well with our secular character as 

enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution. 231. That said, the majority in Sawhney I later sided with 

Justice Chinnappa Reddy's view: caste can be a factor in 

identifying SEBCs. This view should not hold the day forever. Eventually, the words of Justice Desai should be revived. 232. Justice Desai wanted to achieve two goals with one fell 

swoop of the pen. Had his opinion prevailed (1) the creamy 

layer would have been removed ensuring that the truly 

deserving get the benefit and (2) the casteless society would 

have been furthered. To these ends, he would have applied 

economic criteria to remove the creamy layer and 

simultaneously rid reservation of caste. 233. He explained that poverty is the bane of Indian society. Given rampant poverty, it comes as no surprise that "... the 

bank balance, the property holding and the money power 

determine the social status of the individual and guarantee 


the opportunities to rise to the top echelon." [Vasanth 

Kumar at para 27]. As a result, the way "...wealth is acquired 

has lost significance." And "upper caste does not enjoy the 

status or respect ... any more even in rural areas what to 

speak of highly westernised urban society." Finally, his 

Lordship recognized that creamy layer exclusion is inherently 

linked with identification based on economic criteria, i.e., 

"occupation, income and land holdings": 234. Economic criteria must include occupation and land 

holdings because income alone is insufficient. To decrease the 


likelihood that the undeserving evade identification, it is wise 

to employ more than one criterion. 235. In Vasanth Kumar, Justice Chinnappa Reddy departs 

from Justice Desai's use of economic criteria as the sole 

means of identification. Nevertheless, he recognizes that " ... attainment of economic equality is the final and only solution 

to the besetting problems." In Justice Chinnappa Reddy's 

opinion, it is easier to classify based on caste than economic 

criteria: It all depends on how one defines "class." Once economic 

criteria remove the relatively wealthy families (from all castes 

and communities), a "class" will remain. This "class" is known 


as "the poor." The class would share the same characteristic, 

irrespective of caste. They would all lack money. 236. In a number of judgments, this Court has spelt out our 

constitutional philosophy regarding caste. On numerous 

occasions, this Court has proclaimed that the cherished goal 

of the Nation is to realise a casteless society. In Shri V. V. 

Giri v. Dippala Suri Dora & Others (1960) 1 SCR 426 at 

442, the Court observed as under:- 237. In N M. Thomas (supra), a seven Judge Bench observed 

as under: 238. In his dissenting opinion, in Sawhney I Justice Kuldip 

Singh observed as under: 239. In Akhil Bhartiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh 

(Railway ) (supra), it was observed as under:: 240. Returning to Vasanth Kumar, one of Justice Reddy's 


arguments deals with the level of effort required to identify the 

poor compared to the effort expended on identifying caste. In 

the current context, a number of factors, including economic, 

are measured to determine SEBC status. (See: the National 

Commission of Backward Classes' Guidelines for 

considerations of Requests for inclusion and complaints of 

under-inclusion in the Central List of Other Backward 

Classes). 241. The National Commission for Backward Classes aside, I 

have set out to eventually install a system that only takes 

cognizance of economic criteria. Using purely economic criteria 

would lighten the identification load, as ascertaining caste 

would no longer be required. Respondents and others level a 

common criticism against the exclusive use of economic 

criteria. Most of the country is poor. 242. Thus, too many people would be eligible for the benefit. This is only a problem if you hand out reservations based on 

the group's proportion of the total population. Such a 

reservation would be excessively unreasonable and would 


likely violate the Balaji cap of 50% [see M.R. Balaji & Ors. v. State of Mysore [(1963) Supp (1) SCR 439]. If economic 

reservation were limited to a reasonable number, it could be 

upheld. 243. In addition to the problem of extending the benefit to too 

many, Reddy, J. cannot contemplate the idea of bestowing 

reservation on an economically poor Brahmin. "The idea that 

poor Brahmins may also be eligible for the benefits of Articles 

15(4) and 16(4) is too grotesque even to be considered." He 

says that they are not "socially backward", thus they should 

not receive the benefit. But can one call a Brahmin sweeper, 

poor by occupation, socially forward? To do so would be a 

stretch. 244. The majority in Sawhney I reiterates Justice Chinnappa 

Reddy's message in Vasanth Kumar. They rejected the sole 

use of economic criteria to exclude the creamy layer, deeming 

it to be just one measure of advancement. Justice Jeevan 

Reddy qualified that sentiment to an extent. If income were 

extremely high, it could be the sole factor. In such a case, 


income alone would ensure that one were socially forward. Justice Jeevan Reddy was convinced that caste mattered more 

than money - especially in rural areas. He makes his point by 

way of example at para 792: 245. Unless the carpenter became a factory owner, where his 

income would be a reflection of his status, Justice Reddy 

would answer his own question in the negative. This is where 

we part ways. Today, the NRI carpenter's children will have 

likely attended the best schools, tuitions and coaching classes 

that money can buy. These children do not need special 

provisions. That is why I am removing the creamy layer, 

calling for a time-limit on caste-based reservation and urging 

the Government to use exclusively economic criteria to identify 

OBCs who may avail of special provisions. 246. The United States Supreme Court has taken a similar 

position with regard to setting a time-limit on race-based 

affirmative action. As mentioned above, Justice Sandra Day 

O'Connor opined that there may be a time-limit to promoting 

diversity via preferential treatment for certain races: "We 

expect that 25 years from now, the use of racial preferences 

will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved 

today." (See: Grutter at 343). 247. In our context, one need not look past the Parliament's 

affinity with extending time-limits on reservation to see that 

only the judiciary can put a stop to caste-based reservation. Article 334 originally said that reservation for SC/ST/Anglo- Indians in the Lok Sabha and State Legislative Assemblies 

would expire on the Constitution's tenth birthday. The 

Parliament later substituted "ten" for "thirty years" vide the 

45th Amendment. When that was to expire, the Parliament 

extended it for another ten years vide the 62nd Amendment. When that was to expire, it extended it for another ten years 

vide the 79th Amendment. History has shown that it is not 


politically feasible for the Parliament to say "no" to reservation - especially when caste is involved. 248. Nevertheless, I have noted that Sawhney I rejects purely 

economic criteria (occupation/income/property holdings/or 

similar measures of economic power) with respect to 

classification under 16(4). [para 859, 4(a)]. Sawhney I's 

nine-Judge holding precludes us from striking the impugned 

legislation to the extent that it has not yet ruled out the use of 

caste-based criteria for identifying SEBC status. It also 

precludes us from forcing the Government to wean itself off 

caste-based reservation by a certain date. In order to achieve a 

casteless and classless society, after a lapse of ten years, 

special preference or reservation should be granted only on 

the basis of economic criteria as long as grave disparity and 

inequality persist. 7 Secularism is Part of the Basic Structure 249. To be clear, there is no claim arising out of the goal to 

promote a casteless society. No right of action exists. The 

right of action is found in secularism. Though not explicitly 


found in the un-amended Constitution, the original Framers 

made it clear that India was to be a secular democracy. Discrimination based on religion is prohibited by Articles 14 , 

15(1) and 15(2) , 16(1) and 16(2) , 29(2) and 325. The original 

Framers went out of their way to ensure that minorities would 

be able to maintain their identity. (See: Articles 28, 29 and 30). Article 27 precludes the state from adopting a state 

religion, whereas Article 25 grants citizens the right to profess, 

practice and propagate religion. With rights come 

responsibilities. One of them is found at Article 51A(3) , which 

instructs citizens "... to promote harmony and spirit of 

brotherhood amongst all people ... transcending religious ... diversities." 250. Relying on these provisions, Bommai (1994) 3 SCC 1 at 

para 304 declared secularism "....a constitutional goal and a 

basic feature of the Constitution as affirmed in Kesavananda 

Bharati and Indira N. Gandhi v. Raj Narain. Any step 

inconsistent with this constitutional policy is, in plain words, 

unconstitutional." The Court reasoned that the original 


Framers adopted Articles 25 , 26 and 27 so as to further 

secularism. (See: Bommai at para 28 (Ahmadi, J.)). Secularism was very much embedded in their constitutional 

philosophy. [para 29]. During the Constituent Assembly 

Debates, Pandit Laxmikantha Mitra stated (as quoted at para 

28 of Bommai): This is relevant today because quotas are state-sponsored 

discrimination against those who are not deemed SEBCs - caste being a by-product of religion. Though affirmative action 

is allowed, there is a point at which it violates secularism. Finally, I note that the 42nd Amendment, which formally 

inserted secularism into the Preamble, merely made what was 

already implicit explicit. (See Bommai at para 29). 7 Conclusion on the Casteless Society 251. In conclusion, the First Parliament, by enacting Article 

15(5) , deviated from the original Framers' intent. They passed 

an amendment that strengthens, rather than weakens 

casteism. If caste-based quotas in education are to stay, they 

should adhere to a basic tenet of secularism: they should not 

take caste into account. Instead, exclusively economic criteria 

should be used. For a period of ten years, other factors such 

as income, occupation and property holdings etc. including 

caste, may be taken into consideration and thereafter only 

economic criteria should prevail. Sawhney I has tied our 

hands. I nevertheless believe that caste matters and will 

continue to matter as long as we divide society along caste- lines. Caste-based discrimination remains. Violence between 

castes occurs. Caste politics rages on. Where casteism is 

present, the goal of achieving a casteless society must never 

be forgotten. Any legislation to the contrary should be 

discarded. 5. Are Articles 15(4) and 15(5) mutually contradictory, 

such that 15(5) is unconstitutional? 252. While contradictory, I am able to read them 

harmoniously. Learned senior counsel for petitioners, Mr. 

K.K. Venugopal, argued that Articles 15(5) and 15(4) are 

inconsistent to the extent that 15(5) exempts minority 

institutions from reservation and 15(4) incorporates aided 

minority institutions in the reservation scheme. Because both 

provisions contain "non-obstante clauses", they render each 

other void. He further submitted that the Court is in the 

position of having to choose between them in regard to this 

inconsistency. He provided three tests of statutory 

interpretation that give us guidance in resolving such a 

conflict. 253. First, if the Court cannot harmonize the two provisions, it 

must invalidate the one that completely destroys the other's 

purpose. Sarwan Singh & Another v. Kasturi Lal (1977) 1 

SCC 750, pages 760-761, at para 20). In the instant case, one 

of the express purposes of 15(5) was to exempt minority 

institutions and thus avoid conflict with Article 30(1). This is 

found in the text of Article 15(5) itself. 254. With nothing in the text of 15(4) to guide us, we turn to 

its Statement of Objects and Reasons: 255. Thus, Article 15(4) was not passed with an express 

intention to include minority institutions; nor did it arise out 

of a case in which minority institutions were a party. Then 

again, it was open to the First Parliament to exclude minority 

institutions from the beginning. Articles 15(4) and 15(5) 's 

purposes do not necessarily conflict. I find the first test 

inconclusive and thus turn to the other ones. The second test 

asks which provision came into effect at a later date (i.e., was 

"later in time?")? That which is later shall prevail. Here, 15(5) 

was enacted later in time. In J.K. Cotton Spinning and 

Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Others AIR 1961 SC 1170 at page 1174, para 9, I find the third test; it 

provides that the specific clause must trump the general. Article 15(5) is specific in that it refers to special provisions 


that relate to admission in educational institutions, whereas 

15(4) makes no such reference to the type of entity at which 

special provisions are to be enjoyed. 256. Because 15(5) is later in time and specific to the question 

presented, it must neutralize 15(4) in regard to reservation in 

education. Mr K. Parasaran, learned senior counsel for the 

respondents, correctly pointed out that constitutional articles 

are to be read harmoniously, not in isolation. (See: T.M.A. 

Pai (supra) at page 582, para 148). Our interpretation is 

harmonious because Article 15(4) still applies to other areas in 

which reservation may be passed. 6. Does Article 15(5) 's exemption of minority 

institutions from the purview of reservation violate Article 14 of the Constitution? 257. Given the inherent tension between Articles 29(2) and 30(1) , I find that the overriding constitutional goal of realizing 

a casteless/classless society should serve as a tie-breaker. We will take a step in the wrong direction if we subject 

minority institutions (even those that are aided) to reservation. 258. Minority aided institutions were subject to a limited form 


of reservation. In order to preserve the minority character of 

the institution, reservation could only be imposed to a 

reasonable extent. Minority aided institutions could select 

their own students, contingent upon admitting a reasonable 

number of non-minority students per the percentage provided 

by the State Government. This conclusion was derived from 

two conflicting constitutional articles. Of course, I am only 

concerned with minority aided institutions because I have 

already determined that the State shall not impose reservation 

on unaided institutions (minority or non-minority). 259. Article 30(1) provides that "all minorities, whether based 

on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and 

administer educational institutions of their choice." Article 

29(2) states that "no citizen shall be denied admission into any 

educational institution maintained by the State or receiving 

aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, 

language or any of them." 260. In other words, 30(1) by itself would allow minority aided 

institutions to reject all non-minority candidates, and 29(2) by 


itself would preclude the same as discrimination based solely 

on religion. Yet neither provision exists by itself. Rather than 

disturb the Constitution, this Court struck a compromise and 

diluted each provision in order to uphold both. Reading Articles 30(1) and 29(2) harmoniously, Kerala Education Bill 

provided that once minority institutions receive aid, a 

sprinkling of outsiders must be admitted. 261. "Sprinkling" ensured that the minority character of the 

institution would not be lost. In regard to the "sprinkled" seats, minority institutions cannot discriminate based on 

religion in violation of Article 29(2). At the same time, if the 

State compelled aided minority institutions to take too many 

non-minority students, the institution would be "minority" in 

name only. But what does "too many" mean? Can "sprinkling" be quantified? Clearing up the ambiguity, St. Stephen's held 

that minority institutions must make 50% of their seats 

available to outsiders and that admission for the other 50% 

(its own community) must be done on merit. Pai later rejected 

the rigidity attached to this fixed percentage. Along these 


lines, Pai returned to a more flexible standard, one akin to 

"sprinkling" in Kerala Education Bill: the moment a minority 

institution takes aid, it has to admit non-minority students to 

a reasonable extent, whereby the character of the institution 

was maintained and yet citizens' Article 29(2) rights were not 

subverted. (Also see: Pai at para 149). Thus, two admission pools were created for aided minority 

institutions: minority and non-minority. In the minority 

pool, merit was to be observed. From the non-minority pool, 

reservations for the weaker sections may be made while the 

remaining seats, if any, would be distributed based on merit to 

non-minority students. 262. With regard to the percentage of reservation, the State 

Governments were to determine the percentage of non- minority seats according to the needs of that State. As a 

compliment to reservation, aided minority institutions were 


also subject to regulation of administration and management. Pai declared at para 72 as noted above that: 263. In addition to the general power to impose conditions 

that seek to maintain high standards or "excellence in 

education," the State could implement the same under a 

related but different rationale. That is, said regulations could 

be upheld in the name of national interest. [Pai at para 107]. Yet the Government could not destroy the minority character 

of an institution. [para 107]. Nor could it obliterate the 

establishment or administration of a minority institution. [para 107]. A balance was to be struck between (a) 

maintaining academic quality and (b) preserving the minority 

right to establish/administer educational institutions. Regulations that embraced these two objectives were 

considered reasonable. [Pai at para 122]. 264. A question of great import is whether Article 30 was 

designed to put minorities on equal or higher footing than 

non-minorities. This question played out in detail in a debate 

between Khare, C.J. and Justice Sinha in Islamic Academy. Writing for the majority, Chief Justice Khare takes issue with 

Pai. The Chief Justice says that Pai has wrongly categorized 

minority rights as equal to those of the non-minority. He has 

a point. Minorities can establish and administer institutions 

for their communities per Article 30; non-minorities cannot. His Lordship observed: (para 9 page 723)

"...We do not read these paragraphs to mean that non- minority educational institutions would have the same rights 

as those conferred on minority educational institutions by Article 30 of the Constitution of India. Non-minority 

educational institutions do not have the protection of Article 30. Thus, in certain matters they cannot and do not stand on 

a similar footing as minority educational institutions. Even 

though the principle behind Article 30 is to ensure that the 

minorities are protected and are given an equal treatment yet 

the special right given under Article 30 does give them certain 

advantages..." Relying on St. Xavier 's case (1975) 1 SCR 173, Pai 

concluded that the object of Article 30 was to ensure 

minorities of equal treatment and nothing more. 265. It was observed in St. Xaviers College case, at page 192, 

that "the whole object of conferring the right on minorities 

under Article 30 is to ensure that there will be equality 

between the majority and the minority. If the minorities do not 

have such special protection, they will be denied equality." The 

minority institutions must be allowed to do what the non- minority institutions are permitted to do. [Pai at para 138]. 266. In contrast to the majority in Islamic, Justice Sinha 

concludes that Article 30(1) raises minorities to an equal 

platform and no higher. Relevant portion is reproduced 

hereinbelow: 267. Justice Sinha considers it constitutionally immoral to 

discriminate against non-minorities in the guise of protecting 

the constitutional rights of minorities. [See: Islamic Academy 

at para 118]. Even in the face of Articles that provide 

preferential treatment to minority or weaker sections, e.g., 

30(1), 15(4) and 16(4), the right to equality must mean 

something. 268. Justice Khare, as he then was, concludes that original 

Framers conferred Article 30(1) on minorities in order to instill 

in them a sense of confidence and security. [Pai at page 615 

at para 229]. Their right to establish and administer 

educational institutions could not be usurped by mere 

legislation. Khare, J. stated at para 229 p.615:- 269. Minorities possess one right or privilege that non- minorities do not: establishing and administering institutions 

for their community. The right to admit your own students in 

aided minority institutions was subject to admitting a 

reasonable number of outsiders. In the instant case, aided 

minority institutions stand to benefit from the Reservation Act: 270. As noted above, U.S. law is, of course, not binding but 

does have great persuasive value. This is because their 

problem of race is akin to our problem of caste. Where others 

have reviewed similar issues in great detail, it behooves us to 

learn from their mistakes as well as accomplishments. Mr. R. Venkataraman, former President of India in a 

foreword to a book of eminent constitutional expert Dr. L.M. 

Singhvi "Democracy And Rule of Law : Foundation And 

Frontiers", has aptly observed which reads as under: 8) With respect to OBC identification, was the 

Reservation Act's delegation of power to the Union 

Government excessive? 271. It is not an excessive delegation. I agree with the Chief 

Justice's reasoning at para 185 of his judgment. 9) Is the impugned legislation invalid as it fails to 

set a time-limit for caste-based reservation? 272. It is not invalid because it fails to set a time-limit. Given 

the Parliament's history of extending time-limits on other 

reservation schemes, there is much force to the argument that 

the Parliament will forever continue to extend reservations. As 

noted above, it is consistent with our constitutional goal of 

achieving a classless/casteless society that a time-limit be set. But I am bound by Sawhney I and believe that only a larger 

bench could make such a ruling. A larger bench could 

certainly hold that only economic criteria could be used to 

identify SEBCs and that it should be done by a certain date. 10) At what point is a student no longer 

Educationally Backward and thus no longer eligible 

for special provisions under 15(5)? 273. Once a candidate graduates from a university, he must 

be considered educationally forward. Senior counsel for 

petitioners, Mr. P.P. Rao, contended that those who have 

completed Plus 2 should be considered educationally forward. In other words, they would no longer be eligible for reservation 

in university or post-graduate studies. There is some force in 

this argument where only 18% in the relevant age-group have 

completed Plus 2. From this vantage point, this means that 

they are educationally elite. But the answer to most questions 

in law is not so simple. The answer often depends on the 

circumstances surrounding the issue. In the marketplace, a 

candidate who has completed higher secondary education 

cannot be considered "forward". The real value of the higher 

secondary degree is that it is a prerequisite for college 

admissions. The general quality of education imparted upto 

Plus 2 is of extremely indifferent quality and apart from that, 

today some entry-level Government positions only accept 

college graduates. One is educationally backward until the 

candidate has graduated from a university. Once he has, he 


shall no longer enjoy the benefits of reservation. He is then 

deemed educationally forward. For admission into Master's 

programmes, such as, Master of Engineering, Master of Laws, 

Master of Arts etc., none will be a fortiori eligible for special 

benefits for admission into post graduation or any further 

studies thereafter. 11. Would it be reasonable to balance OBC 

reservation with societal interests by instituting 

OBC cut-off marks that are slightly lower than that 

of the general category? 274. Balaji (supra) concluded that reservation must be 

reasonable. The Oversight Committee has made a 

recommendation that will ensure the same. At page 34 of 

Volume I of its Report, the Oversight Committee recommended 

that institutions of excellence set their own cut off marks such 

that quality is not completely compromised. Cut offs or 

admission thresholds as suggested by the Oversight 

Committee are reproduced: 275. Standards of excellence however should not be limited to 

the best aided institutions. The Nation requires that its 

citizens have access to quality education. Society as a whole 

stands to benefit from a rational reservation scheme. 276. Finding 68% reservation in educational institutions 


excessive, Balaji at pages 470-471 (supra) admonished States 

that reservation must be reasonable and balanced against 

other societal interests. States have "... to take reasonable 

and even generous steps to help the advancement of weaker 

elements; the extent of the problem must be weighted, the 

requirements of the community at large must be borne in 

mind and a formula must be evolved which would strike a 

reasonable balance between the several relevant 

considerations." To strike such a balance, Balaji slashed the 

impugned reservation from 68 to less than 50%. 277. Balaji thus serves as an example in which this Court 

sought to ensure that reservation would remain reasonable. We heed this example. There should be no case in which the 

gap of cut off marks between OBC and general category 

students is too large. To preclude such a situation, cut off 

marks for OBCs should be set no lower than 10 marks below 

the general category. 278. To this end, the Government shall set up a committee to 


look into the question of setting the OBC cut off at nor more 

than 10 marks below that of the general category. Under such 

a scheme, whenever the non-creamy layer OBCs fail to fill the 

27% reservation, the remaining seats would revert to general 

category students. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

1A. Whether the creamy layer be excluded from the 9 3 rd
 Amendment (Reservation Act) ? Yes, it must. The 93rd amendment would be ultra vires and 

invalid if the creamy layer is not excluded. See paras 22, 25, 27, 30, 34, 35, 43, 44. 1B. What are the parameters for creamy layer 

exclusion? For a valid method of creamy layer exclusion, the Government 

may use its post-Sawhney I criteria as a template. (See: Office 

Memorandum dated 8-9-1993, para 2(c)/Column 3). I urge 

the Government to periodically revise the O.M. so that 

changing circumstances can be taken into consideration while 

keeping our constitutional goal in view. I further urge the Government to exclude the children of 

former and present Members of the Parliament and Members 

of Legislative Assemblies and the said O.M. be amended 

accordingly. See paras 55-57. 1C. Is creamy layer exclusion applicable to SC/ST? In Indra Sawhney-I, creamy layer exclusion was only in 

regard to OBC. Justice Reddy speaking for the majority at 

para 792 stated that "this discussion is confined to Other 

Backward Classes only and has no relevance in the case of 

Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes". Similarly, in the 


instant case, the entire discussion was confined only to Other 

Backward Classes. Therefore, I express no opinion with 

regard to the applicability of exclusion of creamy layer to the 

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. See para 34. 2. Can the Fundamental Right under Article 21A be accomplished without great emphasis on 

primary education? No, it cannot. An inversion in priorities between higher and 

primary/secondary education would make compliance with Article 21A extremely difficult. It is not suggested that higher 

education needs no encouragement or that higher education 

should not receive more funds, but there has to be much 

greater emphasis on primary education. Our priorities have to 

be changed. Nothing is really more important than to ensure 

total compliance of Article 21A. Total compliance means good 

quality education is imparted and all children aged six to 

fourteen regularly attend schools. I urge the Government to 

implement the following: See paras 126-131. D
 oes the 93 rd
 Amendment violate the Basic 3.

 Structure of the Constitution by imposing 

 reservation on unaided institutions? Yes, it does. Imposing reservation on unaided 

institutions violates the Basic Structure by stripping citizens 

of their fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) to carry on an 

occupation. T.M.A. Pai and Inamdar affirmed that the 

establishment and running of an educational institution falls 

under the right to an occupation. The right to select students 

on the basis of merit is an essential feature of the right to 

establish and run an unaided institution. Reservation is an 

unreasonable restriction that infringes this right by destroying 

the autonomy and essence of an unaided institution. The 

effect of the 93rd Amendment is such that Article 19 is 

abrogated, leaving the Basic Structure altered. To restore the 

Basic Structure, I sever the 93rd Amendment's reference to 

"unaided" institutions. See paras 132-182. 4. W
 hether the use of caste to identify SEBCs 

runs afoul of the casteless/classless society, in 

v
 iolation of Secularism. Sawhney I compels me to conclude that use of caste is valid. It is said that if reservation in education is to stay, it should 

adhere to a basic tenet of Secularism: it should not take caste 

into account. As long as caste is a criterion, we will never 

achieve a casteless society. Exclusively economic criteria 

should be used. I urge the Government that for a period of ten 

years caste and other factors such as 

occupation/income/property holdings or similar measures of 

economic power may be taken into consideration and 

thereafter only economic criteria should prevail; otherwise we 

would not be able to achieve our constitutional goal of 

casteless and classless India. See paras 194, 195, 231, 248, 251. 5. Are Articles 15(4) and 15(5) mutually 

contradictory, such that 15(5) is unconstitutional? I am able to read them harmoniously. See paras 252-256. 6. Does Article 15(5) 's exemption of minority 

institutions from the purview of reservation violate Article 14 of the Constitution? Given the inherent tension between Articles 29(2) and 30(1) , I find that the overriding constitutional goal of realizing 

a casteless/classless society should serve as a tie-breaker. We will take a step in the wrong direction if minority 

institutions (even those that are aided) are subject to 

reservation. See paras 268-269. 7) Are the standards of review laid down by the 

U.S. Supreme Court applicable to our review of 

affirmative action under Art 15(5) and similar 

provisions? The principles enunciated by the American Supreme Court, 

such as, "Suspect Legislation" "Narrow Tailoring" "Strict 

Scrutiny" and "Compelling State necessity" are not strictly 

applicable for challenging the impugned legislation. Cases decided by other countries are not binding but do have 

great persuasive value. Let the path to our constitutional 


goals be enlightened by experience, learning, knowledge and 

wisdom from any quarter. In the words of Rigveda, let noble 

thoughts come to us from every side. See para 183. 8) With respect to OBC identification, was the 

Reservation Act's delegation of power to the Union 

Government excessive? It is not an excessive delegation. With respect to this issue, I 

agree with the reasoning of the Chief Justice in his judgment. 9) Is the impugned legislation invalid as it fails to 

set a time-limit for caste-based reservation? It is not invalid because it fails to set a time-limit. See para 272. 10) At what point is a student no longer 

Educationally Backward and thus no longer eligible 

for special provisions under 15(5)? Once a candidate graduates from a university, the said 

candidate is educationally forward and is ineligible for special 

benefits under Article 15(5) of the Constitution for post 


graduate and any further studies thereafter. See para 273. 11. Would it be reasonable to balance OBC 

reservation with societal interests by instituting 

OBC cut-off marks that are slightly lower than that 

of the general category? It is reasonable to balance reservation with other societal 

interests. To maintain standards of excellence, cut off marks 

for OBCs should be set not more than 10 marks out of 100 

below that of the general category. See paras 274-278. These Writ Petitions and Contempt Petition are accordingly 

disposed of. In the facts and circumstances, the parties are 

to bear their own costs. ..................................J. 

 (Dalveer Bhandari) 

New Delhi; April 10, 2008