SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need Advice : War of Independence against parents. Does it ever end ? How to make a peaceful settlement ?
DATE: 2020-03-05
SCORE: 52
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/fdsxrh/need_advice_war_of_independence_against_parents/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a 25 year old socially awkward man and I think my parents are to blame for it.
I am gonna tell my story and some of the elements may relate to you but don't try to forcefully relate to everything as our mind is quite easily fooled to do so. Also i'm not trying to generalize Indian parents or have any beef against them as i have no authority to judge any parent (as I've not been one yet and know nothing about raising a kid). I simply just want to tell you my story and want some advice from any older people (25+) here and also i would like the younger ppl here just to read rather than giving any advice or any conclusion.

Till 18 (before going to college)

From school time my parents have restricted me and my siblings to go out of the house for any kind of activity be it leisure or work. They've tried to do as much they can for us themselves. This was ok and acceptable when we were young but with time as we grew older we thought that we will be taught these things (the why we thought so was because almost every friend around us could do certain things (like going out to buy stuff or hanging out with friends or going out of the house after dark, etc.) without having to rely on their parents, which is a slow start to an eventual low self esteem). The really annoying part is when they start blaming you for not being able to do basic things on your own.
I've not been able to talk properly to any girl during my school time because of lack of social skills which is something i would also blame our school systems too (Can't say this for every school but i've been to a good school in my area and the generally it'll be considered a punishment to sit with someone of the opposite sex, god knows why). The thing i don't understand is why most ppl consider being around and being attractive to the opposite sex is a luxury and will call you a crybaby if this aspect of your life hurts you and ask you to man up and have the guts to go and talk, made it like a contest or a battle to overcome. I would be lying to you if i say i don't have any sexual urges and "am strictly in for the friendship" but it is something i can't avoid and when you've not talked to a member of the opposite sex (other than members of your own family) and with all the cancerous sex culture around men and women being thrown on your face through advertisements and movies without any proper control i find it really hard not to have those urges. And on top of that parents, who would ask me to think of every girl as my sister and try to keep distance and not talk more than is necessary, which is ok if it's just said 1 or 2 times but when it's incepted in your head during your early years of childhood why wouldn't it stay (also stuff like this hurts a person who overthinks (overthinking developed due to social awkwardness but transports to every aspect of life. a cancer indeed) because of the incest nature of talking to a non family member of the opposite sex)

But everything will be okay because you are about to go to college now, become independent and have fun for these 4 to 5 years of your life, right? Wrong. It's basically your indian bar mitzvah. For now you and you alone shall be blamed for your mistakes even though they might be happening due to a behavior and shortcomings you developed because of a bad upbringing and being forced to do something you never really wanted to do in the first place. So much for Independence.

18-22 (The good days of anyone's life) Pseudo Independence

Not gonna deny college was super fun but not because it added anything new to it but because i was able to see how good it feels to be physically alone for the first time and how important friends are. (Still no girlfriend though) College isn't really fun if you don't know what career you want to go for, because if after 4 years you don't have a job or haven't any idea for what kind of job you want you are just fucked. I tried a lot of things in college and succeeded in doing one but my parents weren't happy with it, so i had to drop it and do something which satisfied them and also aligned partially with my goals but they again declined it because all they want is one thing, a three letter job (needless to say more). Apart from this i really thought i'll get the long awaiting independence to go out of the house now that i'm a college student and a legal adult but hell no. In 8 holidays (4 winter and 4 summer) i haven't been allowed to go out of the house unless it was for intern or for some work just like it was in school. I have not been allowed to go meet a friend ever. Not that i don't have any money or my expenditure is quite high, it's just some orthodox thinking. It just sucks being trapped in 4 walls. The psyche stays when you move out too. I've had trouble taking initiatives to go out of my room because it has been so well inculcated in my head. I feel scared sometimes to go out alone and without permission. I was fortunate to have friends with whom i spent most of my time with. Plus weed helped with making more new friends. And fuck you anyone weed didn't make you any friends, it was yourself, it really wasn't. No one would even talk to me before i started smoking. It really helps you get into some circles quite easily unless you;ve this amazing personality which is not so easy to come by when you've an upbringing which is well fit to make you socially awkward. Also weed and alcohol relaxes you and opens you up to speak your mind (i wish i can do that sober but i simply can't thanks parents for this wonderful disadvantage). Talking about women, nothing here again simply because women have a lot of choices compared to men and why wouldn't a woman chose someone who is charming + nice as compared to just nice. Being nice is not going to take you anywhere, it's a competition really if the sex ratio is this fucked up. Why would any girl who is maintaining herself well go for someone who is nice but is socially awkward when there are 10+ others who are more than what you are. and before any girl says stop generalizing us, i'd like to point out it'd be the same with men had they been in minority. It's a simple numbers game nothing crazy here. The only blame i have is on parents for not allowing me to develop. But this creates another big question wouldn't there always be someone above or below you and wouldn't you always be below someone which might lead you to never be happy? i guess i just want to find an environment where i'm a little better or be able to develop myself to enter environment higher is social hierarchy and dominance.

22-25 (The real Independence)

Now that i've got a job, life should be fine i guess. I'll go out and no one is going to bother me for at least a year. I'll make new friends maybe a girlfriend. I'll try to be sober and look after my health. I'll learn a new skill. I'll meet so many people. I'll earn and spend money on things that i'd have to take permission before. I'd not have to take permission for anything. I'd be free. 
If only that actually happened. 
Even after wasting 4 years i managed to get a job and even with all the mental health issues i had i was able to forget it all and start afresh. I was genuinely happy for the first time in my life. But i think my parents couldn't see that. They forced me to go for this biggest scam in our country : Govt. Job is Power and with this power you can be anything; which should actually have been Knowledge is Power but who has time for knowledge right, Knowledge is for losers. Only the knowledge that gives power and uppar ka paisa is useful. I believed them and again like a fool kept aside my needs to fulfill their dreams disguised to me as my dreams. I eventually failed four times (once in college at 22, then at 23,24 and now at 25) because i didn't want this. Not that the exam is difficult (it's really not) but i just can;t get myself to sit and study with all the mental pressure and no one to listen. This is the first time i'm using internet to vent. Last i did was in college but the concerned people were so quick to call me as just stresses without even giving a thought to anything that might have caused it to be this way. I'm stuck now. I am looking for jobs now but I've no self confidence left in me. Literally nothing. I was really good at interviews and talking to people (because of college) but being in 4 walls rarely going out and not having a single ounce of pleasure for the last 3 years i'm just frustrated now. I tried strangling myself to death but the defense mechanism kicks in and always stops me because i know of stories and people in my life who are still surviving even after suffering 50x more than me. I'm just scared i don't live a few more years just to be more miserable and frustrated. i don't know if i'll be able to make friends now and being able to have any intimate relationship feels like a nightmare. i'm losing my health every day. I don't know if i'm depressed but the symptoms all check out so maybe. I can't go to a therapist because my parents wouldn't understand it and might think some kind of spirit has taken over me. i think i'll be able to get a job in a few days what i'm scared of is what happens afterwards. My insecurities will still be there. Insecurities which would've been eradicated had i gone for that job but might never go now. also it gives me this weird kind of pain in my stomach just thinking about going back to square one, looking for the job that i rejected, it just hurts.

P.S. sorry for the grammatical errors and typos. i'm literally crying typing this. sorry. thanks for hearing me out.
P.P.S. i'd like to clarify that my parents are not monsters, they love me and have never abused me physically but they are just naive when it comes to parenting and really put no thought sometimes in the things they are saying to their children and how their actions have affected us. They just think that the job of a parent is to earn for their kids and keep feeding them and eventually they will get a job and help them when they get old. that's it. all with the hope to keep their kids as close as possible. But still their is a lot of good in them although they are so troubled themselves because of childhood trauma it leaves everyone in this situation where everyone is just so helpless. It's really messed up.