1. By this order, I shall dispose of three applications being I.A No.

5453/2008, I.A No. 5454/2008 and I.A No. 5455/2008 in CS (OS) No.

337/2008. I.A No. 5453/2008 and I.A No. 5454/2008 have been filed by

Defendant No. 1 under Order 39 Rule 4 of the CPC , 1908 for setting aside

the ex-parte order dated February 20, 2008 and under Section 8 of the

Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 for reference of the dispute between

parties to arbitration respectively, and I.A No. 5455/2008 has been filed by

Defendant No. 2 under Order I Rule 13 of CPC , 1908 for its deletion from

the array of parties. CS(OS) No.337/2008 1 of 16 2. Briefly, the facts of the suit filed by the plaintiff are the following.

Both the plaintiff and Defendant No. 2 deal in the sale and marketing of

similar products i.e. evaporative cooling components, products and systems.

The plaintiff submits that Defendant No. 1 joined M/s Artic India Sales as

Area Sales Manager in 1998. The said company was a proprietary concern

of Mr. Deepak Pahwa. In 2000, Defendant No. 1 was transferred to Arctic

India Engineering Pvt. Ltd. with length of service counted from 1998. This

company is one of the group companies owned by Mr. Deepak Pahwa and

his family. In 2006, Arctic India Engineering Pvt. Ltd.‟s name was changed

to Desiccant Rotors International Pvt. Ltd. Meanwhile, Arctic India Sales

was merged with Bry Air (Asia) (P) Ltd. in 2004, which is also a group

company held by Mr. Deepak Pahwa. 3. The Defendant No. 1 on his transfer to the Plaintiff Company entered

into a Confidentiality Agreement with the latter on December 22, 2000

wherein he acknowledged that he was dealing with certain confidential

material of the Plaintiff such as know how, technology, trade secrets,

methods and processes, markets, sales, list of customers, accounting

methods, competitive data, financial plans etc and stated that he would not

divulge the same to third parties. On July 18, 2007 defendant no. 1 resigned

from the plaintiff company and signed an Obligation Agreement on June 12,

2007 which basically provided that (i) for two years after termination of

employment, he would not compete with the plaintiff‟s business and would

not advise, consult, serve or assist any party whose business competes with

that of the plaintiff and its group companies; (ii) for two years he would not

interfere with the relationship of the plaintiff with its customers, suppliers

and employees; that he would not disclose the confidential information to
 CS(OS) No.337/2008 2 of 16
 which he was privy as employee of plaintiff to any third party; (iii) that he

would deliver back all properties (tapes, notes, discs, manuals, advertising

material etc) of the plaintiff which were in his possession and (iv) he would

not retain copies of the above-mentioned properties of the plaintiff. In

addition to the Obligation Agreement, Defendant No. 1 signed two

declarations on the same day declaring that if he failed to adhere to the

declarations it would amount to breach of trust and that he would take full

liability and responsibility of the same. 4. The plaintiff alleges that within three months of leaving it, Defendant

No. 1 joined Defendant No. 2 as its Country Manager and became in charge

of marketing its products. As mentioned earlier, Defendant No. 2 deals with

HumiCool products, which is in direct competition with the plaintiff‟s

EcoCool pads in the market. In view of this, the plaintiff has made

allegations of breach of trust against the Defendant No. 1 who has, as per the

plaintiff, violated the declaration as well as the Obligation Agreement and

the terms of confidentiality and non-compete. 5. The Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant No. 1 had made a backup of

the entire data contained in his laptop, taking the said backup with him when

he left the plaintiff. The information therein is averred to be confidential as it

is said to include trade secrets, supplier and customer lists, business plans,

strategies of trade and marketing etc. It is alleged that Defendant No. 1 has

even contacted the suppliers and customers of the plaintiff on behalf of his

new employer Defendant No. 2. 6. The plaintiff further submits that the above-mentioned acts of both the

defendants are causing it irreparable harm as the disclosing of confidential

information by its prior employee to a direct competitor is an illegal and
 CS(OS) No.337/2008 3 of 16
 mala fide breach of its intellectual property rights and is harmful to its

goodwill and reputation. In lieu of this, the plaintiff has prayed for

mandatory injunction and for delivery up and rendition of accounts. 7. Defendant No. 1 has filed I.A No. 5453/2008 for setting aside the ex-

parte order passed on February 20, 2008 restraining the Defendant No. 1

from approaching the plaintiff‟s suppliers and customers for soliciting

business which is in direct competition with the business of the plaintiff.

Defendant No. 1 submits that the said order virtually grants a monopoly to

the plaintiff in its area of work and the restriction imposed on the former is

contrary to Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and therefore ought

to be set aside. 8. The Defendant No. 1 submits that he did not have any confidential

information during his employment with the plaintiff as he was only a sales

manager and had neither technical understanding nor capacity to appropriate

any confidential technical know-how. The Defendant No. 1 raises two points

as regards the two signed declarations dated June 12, 2006 on which the

plaintiff is relying, (i) that the said declarations were standard declarations

which were generic and not at all specific in stating what type of confidential

information the Defendant No. 1 had access to and (ii) that the Defendant

No. 1 signed the same at the time of his resignation as it was a precondition

to the release of his dues by the plaintiff. Further, he has submitted that the

agreements on which the plaintiff is relying can have no operation in light of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 9. The Defendant No. 1 has also submitted that the plaintiff has no prima

facie case, that the balance of convenience in fact is on the applicant‟s side

as the injunction order is restraining him from utilizing the skills he has
 CS(OS) No.337/2008 4 of 16
 perfected in 8-9 years in this industry and if the same is not vacated,

irreparable injury shall be caused to him as he will remain jobless. In its

reply, the plaintiff has submitted that as Defendant No. 1 was employed with

it as an „Area Sales Manager‟ and has expertise in the area of marketing, he

can carry on his employment at companies which are not engaged in

competitive business with the plaintiff and thus he need not remain jobless.

The Defendant No. 1 has himself stated that he cannot get employment, as

per the plaintiff, belies the fact that he wants to work only in a place where

he can utilize the confidential agreement obtained by him. As regards the bar

on restraint of trade under Section 27 , the plaintiff states that all that the

agreements it has relied upon seek to do is to protect its confidential and

proprietary information to which the Defendant No. 1 was privy. 10. Following judgments have been cited by Defendant No. 1 as regards

his contention that the two signed declarations were non-specific with regard

to the confidential information that he was allegedly privy to. The judgments

discuss the requirements of breach of confidence and what constitutes trade

secrets and confidential information: ( iii) Ambiance India Pvt. Ltd. v. Shri Naveen Jain , 122 (2005)

 DLT 421. It was held as under : 11. It seems to me that as an Area Sales Manager of the plaintiff,

Defendant No. 1 could not have been privy to trade secrets and other

confidential information of the plaintiff company as alleged. However, being

in the position that he was, that Defendant No. 1 could have had knowledge

about the customers of the plaintiff is more plausible as his job profile would

entail managing sales as regards the aforesaid customers. 12. As regards Defendant No. 1‟s contention that the order dated February

20, 2008 is hit by Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the leading

judgments on this aspect are the following: "13. what constitutes restraint of trade is
 summarised in Halsbury's Laws of England (3rd
 edition), Volume 38, at page 15 and onwards. It is
 a general principle of the Common Law that a
 person is entitled to exercise his lawful trade or
 calling as and when he wills and the law has
 always regarded jealously any interference with
 trade, even at the risk of interference with freedom
 of contract as it is public policy to oppose all
 restraints upon liberty of individual action which
 are injurious to the interests of the State. The Court
 takes a far stricter view of covenants between
 master and servant than it does of similar
 covenants between vendor and purchaser or in
 partnership agreements. An employer, for instance,
 is not entitled to protect himself against
 CS(OS) No.337/2008 7 of 16
 competition on the part of an employee after the
 employment has ceased but a purchaser of a
 business is entitled to protect himself against
 competition per se on the part of the vendor. This
 principle is based on the footing that an employer
 has no legitimate interest in preventing an
 employee after he leaves his service from entering
 the service of a competitor merely on the ground
 that he is a competitor. (Kores Manufacturing Co.,
 Ltd. v. Kolak Manufacturing Co., Ltd. [1959] Ch. 20. The result of the above discussion is that
 considerations against restrictive covenants are
 different in cases where the restriction is to apply
 during the period after the termination of the
 contract than those in cases where it is to operate
 during the period of the contract. Negative
 covenants operative during the period of the
 contract of employment when the employee is
 bound to serve his employer exclusively are
 generally not regarded as restraint of trade and
 therefore do not fall under section 27 of the
 Contract Act." ( ii) Superintendence Co. of India (P) Ltd. v. Krishan Murgai (1981) 2 SC 246 : ( iii) Percept D' Mark (India) (P) Ltd. v. Zaheer Khan & Anr. (2006) 4 SCC 227 : 37. On the pleadings contained in the Arbitration
 Petition, there can be no escape from the
 conclusion that what the appellant sought to
 enforce was a negative covenant which, according
 to the appellant, survived the expiry of the
 agreement. This, the High Court has rightly held is
 impermissible as such a clause which is sought to
 be enforced after the term of the contract is prima
 facie void under Section 27 of the Contract Act. Page 1432 It was contended by learned senior
 counsel for the appellant that Clause 31(b) is not
 prima facie void as (i) it allegedly does not travel
 beyond the term because it is an independent
 contract; (ii) the term of agreement was itself
 extendable and never came to an end; (iii) the
 words "initial term" denote that Clause 31(b) itself
 resulted in an automatic extension of the term; and

CS(OS) No.337/2008 9 of 16 (iv) the "full term" contemplated was beyond the
 "initial term" of 3 years." 13. Defendant No. 1 has submitted two judgments besides those that are

above-mentioned. These are as follows : Ltd. & Ors. 81 (1991) DLT 122 wherein it has been held that

 post termination restraint on an employee is in violation of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. A contract

 containing such a clause is unenforceable, void and against

 public policy and since it is prohibited by law it cannot be

 allowed by the Court‟s injunction. If such injunction was to be

 granted, it would directly curtail the freedom of employees for

 improving their future prospects by changing their employment

 and such a right cannot be restricted by an injunction. It would

 almost be a situation of „economic terrorism‟ creating a

 situation alike to that of bonded labour. ( ii) Wipro Ltd. v. Beckman Coulter International S.A 2006 (3)

 ARBLR 118 (Delhi) wherein it has been held that negative

 covenants between employer and employee contracts pertaining

 to the period post termination and restricting an employee‟s

 right to seek employment and/or to do business in the same

 field as the employer would be a restraint of trade and therefore,

 a stipulation to this effect in the contract would be void. No

 employee can be confronted with a situation where he has to

 either work for the present employer or be forced to idleness.

 Also, in such a contract the employer has advantage over the

 CS(OS) No.337/2008 10 of 16
 employee and it is quite often the case that employees have to

 sign standard form contracts or not be employed at all. 14. The stance of Indian courts on the question of restraint on trade is

unmistakably clear. There are no two ways about the fact that the approach

towards a negative covenant subsisting during the course of employment is

completely different from the approach which would be taken towards the

applicability of a negative covenant post-employment duration. The

Obligation Agreement dated June 12, 2007, amongst other things, provides

that (i) for two years after termination of employment, Defendant No. 1

would not compete with the plaintiff‟s business and would not advise,

consult, serve or assist any party whose business competes with that of the

plaintiff and its group companies; (ii) for two years he would not interfere

with the relationship of the plaintiff and its customers, suppliers and

employees; that he would not disclose the confidential information to which

he was privy as employee of plaintiff to any third party. The plaintiff has

stated that the agreements it has relied upon (including the above-mentioned

obligation agreement) are not in the form of restraint on trade but are only

instruments through which it attempting to protect its confidential and

proprietary information to which the Defendant No. 1 was privy. The

plaintiff at present is unable to produce any cogent evidence to prove its

allegations against Defendant No. 1. Rather the said defendant had, prior to

the filing of the suit, sent a letter to the plaintiff asking it to remit his dues

towards his employment. 15. I have no doubt that such was the intention of the plaintiff, but with

equal conviction I believe that such is the intention of all employers who

rely on like negative covenants in employment contracts with their
 CS(OS) No.337/2008 11 of 16
 employees. It is this attempt to protect themselves from competition which

clashes with the right of the employees to seek employment where so ever

they choose and in a clash like this, it is clear that the right of livelihood of

the latter must prevail. Clearly, in part at least, the Obligation Agreement

sought to restrain Defendant No. 1 from seeking employment with an

employer dealing in competitive business with the plaintiff after he had

ceased to be an employee of the plaintiff, and that too for a period of two

years. Such an act cannot be allowed in view of the crystal clear law laid on

this issue. However, in the impugned order dated February 20, 2008 the

injunction restraining Defendant No. 1 is limited in scope, in the sense that it

does not restrain the Defendant No. 1 from working with Defendant No. 2 or

any other person/company, thereby steering clear of impinging the former‟s

freedom to choose his own work place. The injunction only restrains

Defendant No. 1 from approaching the plaintiff‟s suppliers and customers

for soliciting business which is in direct competition with the business of the

plaintiff. Hence, the injunction which has already been granted by order

dated February 20, 2008 is made absolute. The interim application is

disposed of accordingly. 16. Defendant No. 1 has filed I.A No. 5454/2008 for reference of the

parties‟ dispute to arbitration based on the Confidentiality Agreement dated

October 22, 2000 which contains an arbitration clause that reads, "in case of

any dispute, the matter will be settled under the Indian Arbitration Act." In

keeping with the said arbitration clause, Defendant No. 1 prays that the

dispute between the parties be referred to arbitration for settlement. 17. The plaintiff has referred the following judgments in support of its

contention which can be seen vis-à-vis the following : 1959 Supreme Court 1362 it was held that "(1) An arbitration

 clause is a collateral term of a contract as distinguished from its

 substantive terms; but none the less it is an integral part of it; (2)

 however comprehensive the terms of an arbitration clause may be,

 the existence of the contract is a necessary condition for its

 operation, it perishes with the contract; (3) the contract may be non

 est in the sense that it never came legally into existence or it was

 void ab initio; (4) though the contract was validly executed , the

 parties may put an end to it as if it had never existed and substitute

 a new contract for it solely governing their rights and liabilities

 thereunder; (5) in the former case, if the contract had no legal

 existence, the arbitration clause also cannot operate, for along with

 the original contract, it is also void; in the latter case, as the original

 contact is extinguished with the substituted one, the arbitration

 clause of the original contract perishes with it; and (6) between the

 two fall many categories of disputes in connection with a contract,

 such as the question of repudiation, frustration, breach etc. In those

 cases it is the performance of the contract that has to come to an

 end, but the contract is still in existence for certain purposes in

 respect of disputes arising under it or in connection with it. As the

 contract subsists for certain purposes, the arbitration clause operates

 in respect of these purposes." (ii) In Damodar Valley Corporation v. K.K Kar (1974) 1

 Supreme Court Cases 141 it was held that "it may also be open to

 parties to terminate the previous contract and substitute in its place
CS(OS) No.337/2008 13 of 16
 a new contract or alter the original contract in such a way that it

 cannot subsist. In all these cases, since the contract is put an end to,

 the arbitration clause, which is a part of it, also perished along with

 it. Section 62 of the Contract Act incorporates this principle when it

 provides that if the parties to a contract agree to substitute a new

 contract or to rescind or alter it, the original contract need not be

 performed." 18. The Plaintiff‟s contention is that the arbitration clause is not

applicable as the Confidentiality Agreement has been superseded by the

Employment Agreement as well as the Obligation Agreement, and both

these subsequent documents contain no arbitration clause. As per the

Plaintiff, due to these subsequent agreements the Confidentiality Agreement

was mutually terminated and hence the arbitration clause does not apply to

the parties thereto. 19. I accept the contentions of the plaintiff in view of settled law. The

arbitration clause in the present circumstances is not applicable as the

Confidentiality Agreement has been superseded by the Employment

Agreement and Obligation Agreement, both of which contain no arbitration

clause. Hence I.A. No. 5454/2008 is dismissed being not maintainable. 20. The third application is filed by Defendant No. 2 with regard to its

deletion from the array of parties. The applicant herein submits that it has no

legal or contractual relationship with the plaintiff. It also submits that it far

exceeds the enterprise and experience of the plaintiff in their similar line of

work, and therefore it has no requirement of any confidential information

which emits from the plaintiff or anyone else. It also iterates that it has

received no such confidential information as alleged. CS(OS) No.337/2008 14 of 16 21. Defendant No. 2 also submits that no cause of action has been

disclosed against it and avers that the true intent of the plaintiff is to restrain

Defendant No. 2 from entering the Indian market as Defendant No. 2 is a

global leader of these products and the plaintiff has a virtual monopoly over

the same in India. Defendant No. 2 further submits that it has been the

market leader in the industry and had launched the product that the plaintiff

distributes in India over 30 years back. Accordingly, there is no factual basis

for an apprehension that the Defendant No. 2 would be requiring and using

the technical know-how of the plaintiff. Irrespective of that, it is submitted

that the Defendant No. 2 has not received confidential information of any

nature from the plaintiff or Defendant No. 1 at any point in time and that the

plaintiff has only made vague allegations as to the same without placing

anything on record to support its allegations. 22. In its reply, the plaintiff has stated that Defendant No. 2 is a necessary

party as it is in possession of confidential information of the plaintiff which

it has obtained from Defendant No. 1 with mala fide intention. In fact, the

plaintiff submits that the Defendant No. 1 has been engaged in its services

by Defendant No. 2 with mala fide intention. The Defendant No. 2 is

allegedly using the said information for illegal gains in the market. The

plaintiff submits that it has valid grievances and claims against Defendant

No. 2 and if the latter is deleted from the array of parties, effective

adjudication of the dispute will not be possible. Also, Defendant No. 1 has

allegedly contacted suppliers and customers of the plaintiff on behalf of

Defendant No. 2 who is enjoying illegal gains with the same to the detriment

of the plaintiff. CS(OS) No.337/2008 15 of 16 23. Defendant No. 2 has submitted that its impleadment in the present suit

is motivated and is an abuse of the court‟s process. The sole intention behind

Defendant No. 2‟s impleadment is to stall its progress as it is a new entrant

in the Indian market. In view of all of the above-stated, I am of the view that

the plaintiff has failed to show any cause of action against Defendant No. 2.

The present application is allowed and Defendant No. 2 is deleted from the

array of parties as it is not connected with the present suit by virtue of the

fact that there exists no contractual relationship between the plaintiff and

Defendant No. 2. However, if the plaintiff has any evidence that any act of

Defendant No. 2 amounts to infringement of its legal and valid rights,

including technical know-how or information of other such nature of which

the plaintiff is the rightful owner, then he is at liberty to initiate legal action

in accordance with law. On the mere basis of apprehension, a party cannot

be sued. The present application filed by Defendant No. 2 is therefore

allowed. CS(OS) No. 337/2008 List the matter on 14th September, 2009 before the Joint Registrar.