SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Military account scam on OLX
DATE: 2020-09-01
SCORE: 22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ikod77/military_account_scam_on_olx/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was trying to sell my phone on olx today. One of the buyer messaged me and he agreed to buy the phone at the price I'd put on the ad(which rarely happens and got me a little excited). He tells me that he will transfer half of the amount now to book the phone and half of the amount when he comes to receive the phone. I was like ok, works me, getting a good deal. 

He then asks for my gpay number and then he calls me up. He says that he has a **military account** on gpay as he is in the armed forces. The way this account operates is that you have to pay to this account and then you get the amount back, so for example if I transfer 10 bucks, it get back 20. This is how the *military account* works apparently . I told him I need to google about this because I'm not sure, to which he replies this might be your 1st time using a military account but this is how it functions. He told me to transfer a small amount and try it out. I was like let's just transfer a rupee and see what happens,nothing much to lose. As soon as I transferred a rupee, I got back 2 Rs in an instant. I was still over the call with this person and he tells me that now that this works, I can transfer the remaining amount. I was still not sure, but this guy kept on insisting to transfer the remaining amount, I got a little pissed and I cut the call and went to my parents to talk about this(this is where the fun begins). My parents they go to a full on panic mode and start talking about different scenarios in which people's account get emptied and what I did was a careless and should have consulted them before sending that 1 Re. So, now even I start panicking a little and think my account is compromised. I decide to transfer all the amount to an another account so that my money is safe. I try to search for my internet banking username and password for the account but I'm not able to find it. ++ Panic. To make matter more interesting, HSBC has fuck all documentation on how to fetch a lost username for net banking and their customer care support is even worse. I was on the call for half an hour trying to get to reset my account but couldn't get any help. I spent another hour trying to look for information online on how to reset it, but all was a waste effort.
At this point you guys must be thinking, "Why is this dude taking so much chaap?"
Ikr? But I had all my savings in that account and I was shit scared.

Later on I called one for my friend to discuss this situation and after talking to him I realised there wasn't much to worry about.
It's a not satisfying end I guess, sorry for not getting scammed.

Typing this out made me realise that there were so many red flags and still I sorta fell for the whole scam.

TL;DR:
Tried to sell my phone on OLX; came across a phishing buyer; thought my gpay was compromised; found out how disorganised I am when it comes to online banking credentials; panicked a lot but made a profit of a rupee in all this chaos!

P. S.:
Never trust a guy who agrees to buy the item at price you've listed on your online ad on olx.

Gonna check my bank account every hour now. 
Also, kindly report this [user](http://www.olx.in/profile/475489568).