Md. Afjal @ Chhotu, aged about 28 years, S/o Md. Salim R/o-Sahganj,
Aurangabad, P.O.-Aurangabad & P.S.-Sadar, Dist.-Aurangabad, Bihar. .... .... Applicant(s)/Petitioner(s)
 Versus 1. The State of Jharkhand 2. Ishrat Bano aged about 30 years S/o Nasir Khalifa Gram-Shukrbazar,
 Alloudia, P.S.-Chandwa, Dist.-Latehar. .... .... Opposite
 Parties ---- CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJESH KUMAR ---- For the Applicant(s)/Petitioner(s) : Mr. Faiz Ur Rahman, Adv. 1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned counsel for the State
and learned counsel for Opposite Party No.2. 2. The present application has been filed for grant of anticipatory bail in
connection with Chandwa P.S. Case No.03 of 2023, registered for the offence
under Sections 500 , 501 , 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 66(C) 66(D) , 66(E) , 67 & 67(A) of the I.T. Act, pending in the court
of learned A.C.J.M., Latehar. 3. It is the second attempt. Earlier the anticipatory bail of the applicant has
been rejected vide order dated 19.12.2023 in A.B.A. No.4744 of 2023. 4. Innocence has been claimed by the learned counsel for the applicant and
undertaking has been given for co-operating with the investigating agency and
participation in the trial. It has been submitted that it is nothing but a case of
sextortion. On the above basis, prayer for anticipatory bail has been made. 5. Learned counsel for the State and O.P. No.2 have opposed the prayer for
anticipatory bail stating that there is a direct allegation and there is no change
of circumstance. Further, the obscene video clips and photographs have been
uploaded on the social media. 6. From perusal of records, it appears that and it is nothing but a case of
sextortion and this applicant appears to be a victim. 7. Considering the entire material available on record and the fact that the
 similar allegation has been made against the other co-accused also, the
 applicant is granted privilege of anticipatory bail. Hence, in the event of his/her
 arrest or surrender within a period of six weeks from the date of this order, he
 shall be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten
 Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of
 learned A.C.J.M., Latehar, in connection with Chandwa P.S. Case No.03 of
 2023, subject to the conditions as laid down under Section 482 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 and also on the condition that the
 applicant will submit self-attested photocopy of his/her Aadhaar Card and also
 submit his/her mobile number before the learned court below which she/he will
 always keep active and will not change it during pendency of this case without
 prior permission of the court. (Rajesh Kumar, J.)
Amar/- Uploaded 2