The suit of the plaintiff-bank is for recovery of

Rs.3,25,211/- together with 18% interest and Court costs

from the defendants. 2. The facts pleaded in the plaint in brief are that the

M/s.Southern Electronics (Bengaluru) Private Ltd., (SEPL)

having their unit at Plot No.16-A, Peenya Industrial Area,

1st phase, Bengaluru-58 maintained its Account

No.10228876582 with State Bank of India, S.M.E. branch and

had issued cheque bearing No.416015 dated 31.3.2012 for

Rs.23,048/- in favour of M/s.Excel Engineering Company and

the same was sent to them by professional couriers. The

cheque did not reach the payee and M/s. Professional Couriers

reported loss of cheque in question and at the request of

payee i.e., company issued the stop payment of instrument

which was duly registered in the books of plaintiff-bank. The plaintiff-bank has established Centralized Clearing

Processing Centres at various places in India including one at 4 OS.No.1442/2013 Bengaluru i.e., plaintiff branch. The functions and duties of

the plaintiff are that, different branches of State Bank of India

and other Banks present the cheques issued by its customers

drawn on State Bank of India branches in clearing to the

plaintiff-bank. If the cheuqes are presented to the plaintiff

are otherwise in order it will make payment to the Banks

(other than SBI branches) who have presented the cheques in

clearing on behalf of its customers. If the cheques presented

in clearing are prima-facie in order the plaintiff makes the

payment in due course in good faith without negligence. In

the instant case, on 19.4.2012 the 3rd defendant has

presented a cheque purportedly bearing No.416075 dated

31.3.2012 for Rs.2,78,050/- allegedly drawn by the SEPL

company and it was paid to the 3rd defendant in clearing.

M/s.SEPL having come to know that a payment of

Rs.2,78,050/- was made by the plaintiff-bank the said

company disputed the transaction and confirmed that, hey

had not issued the cheque for Rs.2,78,050/-. On careful

consideration, it was noticed by the plaintiff-bank that cheque

bearing No.416015 was altered to 416075 and the amount of 5 OS.No.1442/2013 Rs.23,048/- was altered to Rs.2,78,050/- and name of the

payee was altered from M/s.Excel Engineering Company to

Sri Mohammed Irshad the 1st defendant. The alteration made

was not visible on the naked eye. Having noticed that a fraud

has been taken place, the plaintiff-bank has lodged a

complaint u/S.465 , 408 , 471 and 420 of IPC against the 1st

defendant. It is further pleaded that, a request was made to the 2nd

defendant with whom the 1st defendant had opened the

account and on careful examination of the document it was

noticed that the 2nd defendant had not followed KYC [Know

Your Customer] regulation as prescribed by the R.B.I. while

opening the account of the 1st defendant. In a span within

2½ months after opening of the account of the 1st defendant

with the 2nd defendant though the account was opened with a

minimum balance of Rs.5,600/-, a cheque of huge amount of

Rs.2,78,050/- was presented for collection and thereby the

2nd defendant has shown its negligence without verification of

genuineness of the cheque presented by the 1st defendant. 6 OS.No.1442/2013 Likewise, the 3rd defendant without noticing all these

irregularities and malpractice, has presented the cheuqe to

the plaintiff-bank for collection and the plaintiff-bank bonafide

honoured the cheque sent for collection and thereby, for

having caused the loss to the plaintiff-bank the defendants

are liable to pay the suit claim to the plaintiff-bank. Pleading

the above cause of action, the plaintiff-bank has sought for

decreeing the suit in its favour. 3. After the institution of the suit, the summons was

ordered to the defendants and despite service of summons,

the defendant No.1 did not appear before the Court and

thereby, he was placed ex-parte by the transferor Court. The

defendant Nos.2 and 3 have appeared through their advocate

and filed their written statement. 4. The gist of the written statement of defendant

Nos.1 and 2 is to the effect that the defendant No.1 had

opened the account with the 2nd defendant bearing

No.912010009612519 after compliance of K.Y.C. rules. The 7 OS.No.1442/2013 defendant No.1 had produced the PAN Card for his identity

proof and latest utility bill for address proof, following the due

process, the account of the 1st defendant was opened. On

19.4.2012 the 1st defendant had deposited a cheque bearing

No.416075 for Rs.2,78,050/- drawn on plaintiff-bank for

collection at Bengaluru branch and accordingly, the cheque

was presented for collection to the plaintiff-bank. There was

no negligence on the part of the 2nd and 3rd defendant in

sending the cheque for collection to the plaintiff-bank and it

had taken all the care as could be reasonably taken by a

Banker as collecting Banker. On perusal of the instrument

presented by the 1st defendant for collection apparently there

was no irregularities found by the 2nd defendant and thereby,

it was sent for collection to the plaintiff-bank. The plaintiff-

bank without doubting authenticity of the instrument has

cleared the cheque sent for collection and thereby, the

account of the 1st defendant was given credit of the amount

mentioned in the instrument sent for collection and thereby,

there was no iota of doubt about the authenticity of the

cheque put for collection and accordingly, the defendants 2 8 OS.No.1442/2013 and 3 in the normal course with all bonafideness acted upon. It is further pleaded that, on 29.6.2012 the defendant

No.3 received an intimation regarding the fraudulent

encashment from 2nd defendant. However, by the time the

3rd defendant could exercise the caution in the account, major

part of the amount was withdrawn by the 1st defendant

leaving a balance of Rs.Zero and that account was marked as

debit freeze immediately. It has come to the knowledge of

the 3rd defendant that the 1st defendant has vacated from the

given address. On verification of the address proof provided

by the 1st defendant under K.Y.C and documents available

with it were provided to the plaintiff to lodge the complaint. The defendant Nos.2 and 3 have denied various

averments of the plaint that the defendant Nos.2 and 3 have

not taken proper care and caution and there was negligence

on their part in presenting the instrument to the plaintiff-bank

which was a forged one and thereby, the defendant Nos.2 and

3 are responsible and liable to make good the loss to the

plaintiff-bank which was given credit to the account of its 9 OS.No.1442/2013 customer SEPL. Since the defendant No.2 and 3 have not

shown any negligence in either opening the account of the 1st

defendant with the 2nd defendant or the cheque presented for

collection to the plaintiff-bank, absolutely both the

defendants are not responsible for the suit claim and the

plaintiff-bank in order to waive its liability, has tried to shift it

over to the defendants 2 and 3. Infact the plaintiff-bank holds an account of its customer SEPL

and when there was stop payment given by its customer

reporting that the cheque sent by it was lost, ought to have

taken utmost care before honouoring the cheque sent for

collection, but the plaintiff-bank did not take necessary care

and caution while clearing the cheque and without therebeing

any doubt over the authenticity of the cheque sent by the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 for collection, the plaintiff-bank has

cleared the cheque and after doing so, only on the complaint

of its customer, it has tried to shift over the liability on the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 instead of owning its own liability for

having passed the cheque through collection, has made false 10 OS.No.1442/2013 claim against defendant No.2 and 3 and thereby the

defendants 2 and 3 are not liable to pay the suit claim and

thereby, sought for dismissal of the suit with cost. 5. On the basis of the pleadings and documents

presented, the following issues came to be framed by the

transferor Court: The plaintiff-bank has established Centralized Clearing

Processing Centres at various places in India including one at

Bengaluru i.e., plaintiff branch. The functions and duties of 14 OS.No.1442/2013 the plaintiff are that, different branches of State Bank of India

and other Banks present the cheques issued by its customers

drawn on State Bank of India branches in clearing to the

plaintiff-bank. If the cheuqes are presented to the plaintiff

are otherwise in order it will make payment to the Banks

(other than SBI branches) who have presented the cheques in

clearing on behalf of its customers. If the cheques presented

in clearing are the prima-facie in order the plaintiff makes the

payment in due course in good faith without negligence. In

the instant case, on 19.4.2012 the 3rd defendant has

presented a cheque purportedly bearing No.416075 dated

31.3.2012 for Rs.2,78,050/- allegedly drawn by the SEPL

company and it was paid to the 3rd defendant in clearing.

M/s.SEPL having come to know that a payment of

Rs.2,78,050/- was made by the plaintiff-bank the said

company disputed the transaction and confirmed that, hey

had not issued the cheque for Rs.2,78,050/-. On careful

consideration, it was noticed by the plaintiff-bank that cheque

bearing No.416015 was altered to 416075 and the amount of

Rs.23,048/- was altered to Rs.2,78,050/- and name of the 15 OS.No.1442/2013 payee was altered from M/s.Excel Engineering Company to Sri

Mohammed Irshad the 1st defendant. The alteration made

was not visible o the naked eye. Having noticed that a fraud

has been taken place the plaintiff-bank has lodged a

complaint u/S.465 , 408 , 471 and 420 of IPC against the 1st

defendant. It is further deposed by PW.1 that, a request was made

to the 2nd defendant with whom the 1st defendant had opened

the account and on careful examination of the document it

was noticed that the 2nd defendant had not followed KYC

[Know Your Customer] regulation as prescribed by the R.B.I.

while opening the account of the 1st defendant. In a span

within 2½ months after opening of the account of the 1st

defendant with the 2nd defendant though the account was

opened with a minimum balance of Rs.5,600/-, a cheque of

huge amount of Rs.2,78,050/- was presented for collection

and thereby the 2nd defendant has shown its negligence

without verification of genuineness of the cheque presented

by the 1st defendant. Likewise, the 3rd defendant without 16 OS.No.1442/2013 noticing all these irregularities and malpractice, has presented

the cheuqe to the plaintiff-bank for collection and the plaintiff-

bank bonafide honoured the cheque sent for collection and

thereby, for having caused the loss to the plaintiff-bank the

defendants are liable to pay the suit claim to the plaintiff-

bank. 11. In order to substantiate the oral evidence, P.W.1

has produced the following documents: examined the evidence of P.W.1 and through out maintained

that, there was no negligence on the part of defendants 2 and

3 in presenting the cheque for collection which was deposited

by the 1st defendant and it was the plaintiff-bank which was

duty bounden to verify the cheque in case of any malpractice

said to be caused on the cheque presented for collection. It

was also suggested that the plaintiff being the account holder

of the SEPL Company, was very well acquaintance with its

transactions and despite stop payment was given by the said

company, the plaintiff-bank without considering it has cleared

the cheque for collection and thereby, there was no

negligence on the part of defendants 2 and 3 and it was only

the plaintiff-bank which was negligent and thereby the

defendants 2 and 3 are not liable to pay the suit claim to the 18 OS.No.1442/2013 plaintiff-bank, but P.W.1 has denied the suggestion made in

the course of cross-examination. 13. On perusal of plaint averments and also the

pleadings of the written statement of defendants 2 and 3 and

the evidence adduced by the plaintiff, it is crystal clear that

the plaintiff-bank has maintained the account of the SEPL

Company and it is not in dispute that, there was a stop

payment given by the said company on the ground that the

cheque which was transmitted by it to M/s.Excel Engineering

Company bearing No.416015 for Rs.23,048/- was lost during

the transit in the courier services. 14. As could be seen from the evidence of P.W.1,

a cheque was presented by defendants 2 and 3 for collection

to the plaintiff-bank which was deposited by 1st defendant

which was said to be an altered cheque issued by SEPL

company by altering the name and also the amount of the

instrument. In the instant case, undoubtedly, for the

defendants 2 and 3 the Vice President of the defendants 2 19 OS.No.1442/2013 and 3 was examined as D.W.1 who has filed his affidavit for

examination-in-chief, but he did not appear for cross-

examination before the Court, still the Court has to consider

that, whether there was any negligence on the part of the

plaintiff or the defendants 2 and 3 in sending the cheque for

collection presented by the 1st defendant to the plaintiff-

bank. 15. Undoubtedly, since there was an account being

maintained by the SEPL company with the plaintiff-bank, the

plaintiff-bank ought to be very much cautious in honouring

the cheque since it will be having the specimen signature of

the authorized signature of the SEPL Company and also it will

be having access to make any confirmation when a cheque

was presented for collection from outstation. In the instant

case, as deposed by P.W.1 there was a stop payment issued

by SEPL company not to make payment in respect of cheque

No.416015 on the ground that instrument was lost during the

transit in courier service. 16. On perusal of the evidence available on record, it is

the evidence of P.W.1 that the cheque bearing No.416075

was sent for collection from Hyderabad by the defendant No.3

which was presented by defendant No.2 to the 3rd defendant

for collection belonging to the 1st defendant and it has with all

good faith honoured the cheque sent for collection and the 1st

defendant soon after that amount was credited to his account

has withdrawn it. It is the allegation of the plaintiff that the

defendant No.2 before opening the account of the 1st

defendant has not collected proper documents to know his

background and thereby, it has failed in following the Norms

prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India under the caption

'KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER' and it has accepted the cheque put

for collection by the 1st defendant who had opened the

account with a minimum balance of Rs.5,600/- has put the

cheque for collection on a huge amount of Rs.2,78,050/- and

thereby, the 2nd defendant was negligent in following the

Norms of KYC and the 3rd defendant without verification of it

had sent the cheque for collection to the plaintiff-bank and

the plaintiff-bank with all bonafide without suspecting the 21 OS.No.1442/2013 genuineness of the cheque sent for collection has cleared it

and later on, it came to know through SEPL Company that it

had not issued the cheque for Rs.2,78,050/- and thereby the

amount which was re-credited to the account of SEPL has to

be redebited by the defendants 2 and 3 alongwith defendant

No.1 to the plaintiff-bank together with interest. 17. On perusal of the evidence and the principles

governing the Banking Rules and Procedures the Norms of

Reserve Bank of India, it is very much clear that the plaintiff-

bank being the holder of the account of SEPL Company, ought

to have made an enquiry with the said customer when a

cheque for Rs.2,78,050/- was presented for collection through

2nd and 3rd defendants bearing cheque No.416075. It is an

undisputed fact that the SEPL Company had requested the

plaintiff-bank to stop payment in respect of the last

instrument that was bearing cheque No.416015 issued for

Rs.23,048/-, it was the duty of the plaintiff when a cheque of

similar series was presented for collection that too for a huge

amount of Rs.2,78,050/-, it ought to have verified it and 22 OS.No.1442/2013 scrutinize in a careful manner than in a casual approach

before clearing that instrument. 18. It is the evidence of P.W.1 that the cheque which

was sent for collection was from Hyderabad branch and when

the cheque was put for collection bearing No.416075 and

there was material alteration of cheque number from 416015

to 416075 and the amount which was mentioned both in

figures and words was altered from Rs.23,058/- to

Rs.2,78,050/-, the plaintiff-bank had to exercise the utmost

vigilant over the matter and to make an enquiry with the

customer whether that cheque was issued by the SEPL

company in the name of the 1st defendant or otherwise, but

the plaintiff-bank has not taken care in that regard and it has

cleared the cheque sent for collection and put the burden on

the defendants 2 and 3 who have sent it for collection and

claimed the suit claim from them and it is not a legally

tenable claim made by the plaintiff-bank. 19. In support of the evidence of P.W.1, the plaintiff-

bank has got examined P.W.2 by name M.Lakshman Rao

Kadam an Asst.Manager at Centralised Clearing Processing

Centre and he has also deposed the evidence in tune with the

plaint averments and the evidence of P.W.1. The evidence of

P.W.2 is to the effect that he has cleared the cheque which

was presented by the defendant Nos.2 and 3 for collection

and he carried the normal caution to clear cheque and for the

bare eye there was no noticeable irregularities or the

alteration of cheque could be found by him and thereby, he

has passed the cheque for clearance marked at Ex.P1. 20. No doubt, the defendant Nos.2 and 3 have not

cross-examined the evidence of P.W.2. Still for the reasons

assigned by this Court, in the foregoing paragraphs, this

Court holds that the plaintiff-bank ought to be very cautious

in clearing the cheque when there was a stop payment issued

by its customer in so far as an lost instrument that too when

a cheque of the same series was presented for its collection

through defendant Nos.2 and 3. In the absence of any care 24 OS.No.1442/2013 being taken by the plaintiff-bank in not verifying about the

cheque presented for collection from its customer, this Court

holds that, even the evidence of P.W.2 would not help to seek

for a decree against the defendant Nos.2 and 3 by the

plaintiff-bank. 21. It is the system in the banking regulation that,

when the cheque is put by the customer for collection, the

bank generally sends the cheque for collection and the payee

bank which holds the account of the person to whose account

amount of cheque is to be debited should exercise all the care

and caution before passing that cheque including the

genuineness of the cheuqe or in the event of any small doubt

to dis-honour the cheque for the reasons which has noticed by

it in such cheques. In the instant case, it is very much clear

that the plaintiff-bank has not taken proper care in honouring

the cheque sent for collection by the 3rd defendant belonging

to the 1st defendant sent it for collection by the 2nd defendant

through 3rd defendant. In that way of the matter, this Court

holds that, there was no negligence that can be saddled on 25 OS.No.1442/2013 the defendants 2 and 3 to hold that, they have failed to follow

the Norms of K.Y.C. and they have not verified the cheque

carefully before it was sent for collection to the plaintiff-bank. 22. On perusal of the documents produced by the

plaintiff, it is seen that the plaintiff later detected that, there

was a fraud committed by the 1st defendant in materially

altering Ex.P1-cheque which was belonging to the SEPL

Company which was lost in the courier transmission. The

evidence of P.W.1 and the documents produced clearly show

that the plaintiff-bank has lodged complaint as per Ex.P5. On

perusal of the reply sent by defendant Nos.2 and 3 to the

notice got issued by the plaintiff, they have also made it clear

that, in case of any fraud is detected the plaintiff-bank will be

at liberty to recover the amount paid through Ex.P1 cheque

by means of claiming it from the 1st defendant. 23. On perusal of the written statement, it is very

much clear that the 1st defendant has left Zero balance in his

account and thereby in all probabilities as per Ex.P1 and P2, it 26 OS.No.1442/2013 is the 1st defendant who has unlawfully gained by presenting

Ex.P1 cheque for collection through defendant Nos.2 and 3

and that amount was paid by the plaintiff-bank from the

account of SEPL company and later on, on the letter

correspondence made by the SEPL company, the plaintiff-

bank has given credit of Rs.2,78,050/- to the SEPL Company

account and thereby, the plaintiff-bank has virtually put into

loss in respect of the amount shown in Ex.P1 cheque,

thereby, it has got every right to recover that amount from

the 1st defendant to whose account the clearance cheque

amount of Rs.2,78,050/- was credited and the 1st defendant

has withdrawn that amount from his account from the 2nd

defendant-Bank. 24. The D.W.1 has filed his affidavit for examination-

in-chief, but he did not tender himself for cross-examination

and thereby, it can be safely held that, there is no evidence

adduced by defendant Nos.2 and 3 in the case still the

evidence of PWs.1 and 2 and the documentary evidence

produced by the plaintiff, it can be safely held that the 27 OS.No.1442/2013 plaintiff has failed to establish the negligence or deviation in

KYC Rules in opening the account of the 1st defendant by the

2nd defendant and there was negligence on the part of the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 and thereby, the defendant Nos.2 and

3 are not liable to pay the suit claim to the plaintiff and on the

other hand, for the above said discussions, it is the 1st

defendant who is liable to pay the suit claim to the plaintiff-

bank and thereby the provisions of law in respect of Negotiable Instruments Act particularly u/S.131 of the Act

and the principles ruled in the decisions relied on by the

counsel for the plaintiff would not help the plaintiff in getting

the decree against defendant Nos.2 and 3, however, in view

of the above discussions, the suit of the plaintiff-bank needs

to be decreed as prayed for against defendant No.1 only, with

these observations, issue Nos.1 to 3 are answered in the

negative and issue No.4 is answered partly in the affirmative

holding that the plaintiff-bank is entitled to a decree against

the 1st defendant only. 25. ISSUE NO.5: For the reasons assigned on issue Nos.1 to

4 and the findings recorded on them, the following order is

passed: The plaintiff-bank is entitled to recover
 Rs.3,25,211/- together with interest at the
 rate of 18% p.a. from the date of suit till
 realization of entire decretal amount from
 the 1st defendant. Draw decree in terms of judgment. --- (Dictated to the judgment writer,
 computerised by her, corrected, signed and then
 pronounced by me in the open court on this the 7th
 day of August 2015). (RAVI. N.M.),
 XLIV ADDL.CITY CIVIL &
 SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE. ANNEXURE

LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR PLAINTIFF: LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED FOR DEFENDANTS: Ex.P11 : Statement of Account of Southern Electronics
 Ltd.,

LIST OF DOCUMENTS MARKED FOR DEFENDANTS: