1. Heard Mr. Imran Ullah, learned counsel for the applicant as well as Mr. Deepak Mishra, learned Additional Government Advocate representing the State. 2. The instant bail application under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. has been filed on behalf of the applicant with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 336 of 2018, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 of I.P.C., Sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act and Section 66D of Information Technology Act, Police Station-Jalaun, District-Jalaun, during the pendency of trial. 3. Brief facts of the case which are required to be stated are that the matter relates to siphoning off essential commodities in the month of July, 2018 whereby E-Pos Machine used for distribution of food grains to valid Aadhaar Card holders/Ration Card holders was misused, and interpolation was made by changing the Aadhaar Card to an alternative unauthorized one, and the food-grains were misappropriated. Initially eleven first information reports were lodged on 28.08.2018 (including the present one) against thirteen different Fair Price Shop Dealers along with computer operators in police station Kotwali Jalaun, District Jalaun by the informant Ajeet Singh Yadav, Supply Inspector. Thereafter, twelfth first information report was lodged on 19.12.2018 by Sanant Kumar, Area Food Officer against thirteen Fair Price Shop dealers and three computer operators making conjoint allegations against them with regard to misappropriation of numbers of Ration Cards in the months of April, May and June 2018 by all of them. Details of all the twelve first information reports are being given as under:- The instant case relates to the tenth F.I.R. being Case Crime No. 336 of 2018. 4. Main substratum of argument of learned counsel for the applicant is that the applicant is not named in the F.I.R. In the present case 155 Ration Cards have been misappropriated. During investigation, complicity of applicant also came into light on the ground that password and login Id of the applicant had been used for operating the E-Pos Machine. In this regard it is further submitted that applicant's Login Id and Password were misused by Computer Operators who, in connivance with, Fair Price Shop dealers interpolated data of E-Pos Machine, in which Operators majorly feeded/seeded their own Aadhaar Card numbers and using their biometrics withdrawn essential commodities (Ration) of eligible card holders. Much emphasis has been given by contending that the applicant by using his Login Id and Password signed the system in the morning, which got connected with E-Pos Machines in dynamic mode. Entire exercise of feeding and seeding of unauthorized Aadhaar Numbers were done during dynamic mode of E-Pos Machines by Fair Price Shop dealers in connivance with the computer operators. It is further submitted that E-Pos Machine to be used for distribution, has to be connected with the server of District Supply Office and for further distribution E-Pos Machine has to be "dynamic mode", which is only possible after entering Login Id and password. On distribution days, in the morning itself after entering Login Id and Password the system is signed-in and is connected till evening with E-Pos Machine which is always with the Fair Price Shop dealers. However, during day time when the system is active, E-Pos Machines are on dynamic mode and the same was being operated by Operators and dealers respectively in connivance with each other. It is further submitted that co-accused Arpit Chauraisia and Sagar Chaurasisya who were Computer Operator and named in the F.I.R. have been granted bail by this Court vide orders dated 09.12.2019 and 19.12.2019 in Criminal Misc. Bail Application Nos. 54579 of 2019 and 56734 of 2019 respectively. The applicant has also been granted bail in Case Crime No. 535 of 2018, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 I.P.C. and Section 3 / 7 Essential Commodities Act, Police Station Jalaun, District Jalaun vide order dated 13.09.2024 in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 30000 of 2024. Lastly, it is submitted by learned counsel for the applicant that there is no chance of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the prosecution evidence. The applicant is languishing in jail since 05.07.2024, and in case he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and will cooperate in the early disposal of the case. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Government Advocate representing the State opposed the prayer for bail of the applicant in the light of prosecution case as mentioned in the F.I.R. by contending that Login Id and Password of the applicant were misused by the Operators in connivance with him, therefore, he is also liable for misappropriation of essential commodities, but could not dispute the above factual aspect of the matter as argued on behalf of the applicant. 6. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and examined the matter in its entirety, I find that it is not in dispute that applicant is not named in the F.I.R. The E-Pos Machines was placed at different place in the custody of Fair Price Shop Dealers and the same was being operated by the Computer Operator at the instructions of Fair Price Shop dealers. Although the allegation of connivance of the applicant with Fair Price Shop Dealers and Computer Operators has been levelled but no credible evidence has been collected by the Investigating Officer as to how the applicant was in connivance with the Operator of E-Pos Machine except providing his Login Id and Password, which in normal course was the duty of the applicant to provide the same. 7. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as well as keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused and submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, I am of the view that the applicant has made out a fit case for bail. Hence, the bail application is hereby allowed. 8. Let the applicant-Kamal Singh Kushwaha, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions: 9. In case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail of the applicant. 10. It is made clear that the observations contained in the instant order are confined to the issue of bail only and shall not affect the merit of the trial. Order Date :- 5.2.2025
 
Kashifa