On January 7, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced the relaxing of Meta’s content moderation rules and moving away from a third-party fact-checking system. Terming fact-checking a “tool to censor” speech, the company sought its replacement with a community notes system akin to what X uses.

Using this new model, users could label and add context to content they believe is potentially misleading, enabling people across a diverse range to take charge in determining what content is helpful for users to see, the company claimed. Notably, experts remain wary of this plan.

While Meta has not yet announced plans for global expansion of this model, countries like Brazil are already apprehensive of its potential impact. Additionally, despite reassurances, fact-checking organisations like those in India have also expressed concerns about their future citing that the company can terminate their contracts with just a month’s notice.

As India remains Meta’s largest market currently, the potential arrival of community notes in the country raises certain questions. For instance, challenges could arise with the implementation of such a program due to the existing roles of ‘cyber volunteers’ and ‘digital warriors’.

Launched in 2021, the Home Ministry launched a program under which citizens could register as Cyber Crime Volunteers to flag “unlawful content” and aid law enforcement agencies in the identification and removal of such content on social media. Besides cyber volunteers, individuals could also apply as cyber awareness promoters or cyber experts. This phenomenon was soon replicated across states like Uttar Pradesh and union territories like Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir .

Moving forward, concerning its requirements and features, cyber volunteers could mirror the community notes model in certain aspects. (Please note that since Meta draws from X in its plans for community notes, the latter’s guidelines for the same have been considered for comparison purposes.)

Firstly, to apply as cyber volunteers, there is no requirement of prior verification through Know Your Customer (KYC) and the position is open to all Indian citizens. Owing to this requirement, amateurs could weaponise social discontent after becoming cyber volunteers, the Internet Freedom Foundation noted . Similarly, to become a contributor on community notes, not much effort is required, CBS News reported . For instance, any X user who hasn’t recently violated its rules has a verified phone number, and had joined the platform at least six months ago, was eligible to become a community notes contributor.

Secondly, the absence of legal backing when volunteers report ‘unlawful content’ raises doubts over the authenticity of the volunteers’ submitted reports of fake news, the IFF explained . Further, there exist no safeguards to prevent misuse of such programs. This could also be used as a “get-even” mechanism where people simply report posts owing to personal differences, The Quint reported . Likewise, a study on the impact of community notes found that users are more likely to rate their political opponents rather than co-partisans in the U.S.

Moving forward, community notes could also raise problems like cyber vigilantism like cyber volunteers did. Elaborating on this, Karthika Rajmohan, Associate Policy Counsel at IFF stated, “When Meta offers every single person on the internet a platform to voice their opinion on the fakeness of information, extreme viewpoints and ideologues will be attracted. Considering that extreme content has the potential to go viral, these viewpoints will have an increased chance of getting published. Due to the platform offered by community notes, Meta risks heated debates, cyberbullying, trolling and doxxing when disagreements on the veracity of news/information get heated.” In conclusion, there exists no final arbiter for what constitutes accurate information and without a legitimate judge, community notes will fail to arrive at a consensus, resulting in social media vigilantism, she adds.

Adding a differing viewpoint, Anushka Jain, Research Associate at Digital Futures Lab, said that such notes don’t trigger vigilantism concerns since Meta lacks any prosecuting power, as is present with the Home Ministry in case cyber volunteers flag certain content. Further, it is unclear if Meta will utilise community notes to identify content for removal or takedown. However, it may facilitate targeted harassment of people online.

When asked whether this model would clash with cyber volunteers, Rajmohan said that the ideological bias colours the ‘fakeness’ of any information in a post-truth world. “It would be far-fetched to expect that community notes and cyber volunteers would work in harmony to identify genuine disinformation and misinformation. The two would end up discrediting each other’s fact-checking efforts due to clashing points of view”, she added.

Firstly, Meta like X would only display notes rated helpful by people, claiming that an agreement must exist between contributors to prevent “one-sided ratings”. However, in past studies on notes made on US Election Day, only a small percentage of notes were rated helpful, Poynter found . Moreover, because it is difficult to achieve “cross-ideological consensus” (agreement between the right and left viewpoints) to allow public visibility of notes, the model is further flawed, Poynter reported . Additionally, there exist issues with the viability of the model. Baybars Orsek, Managing Director of Logically Facts added, “While in a utopian world, this [agreement between different contributors] sounds plausible, in reality, many factors come in the way—an individual’s (any user/reader’s) political leaning, ideology, or belief. A fact should be a fact, irrespective of an individual’s stance.”

Further, relying on such a model would also make it impossible to reach a consensus about the veracity of the truth, explained Rajmohan. “With multiple parties likely to post community notes on the same item, Meta platforms will become a battleground of competing ideologies attempting to further their own narratives”, she adds. Finally, she claims that social media algorithms prioritising ratings and virality will determine the viewership and publication of such notes. This also corresponds with a study disclosing that X users could only view 8.5% of the total notes written through the program.

Calling out the faulty premise of the community notes program, Jain explained that it lacks factuality. “Since the notes visible to the public represent something most people who have interacted with the post agree on, this borders on opinion-based content instead of factual”, she stated.

Speaking of the model’s history, community notes started as ‘ Birdwatch ‘ in the U.S. to crowdsource information from users and provide additional context to content, Orsek explains. “While user involvement and crowdsourcing empower users to decide what they consider trustworthy, in the absence of robust moderation, they often lack consistency, objectivity and expertise to address harmful narratives”, he adds. Instead of solely relying on a “binary model with one approach” to address misinformation, Orsek advocates for shifting the conversation to an ecosystem where user-led systems like community notes co-exist with professional fact-checking, media literacy programs, and emerging AI models.

With multiple fronts highlighting the issues within the program, it will be interesting to see how Meta incorporates the program within its platforms going forward.

Note: The post was updated on January 17 at 6:04 PM to add comments by Baybars Orsek.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event