1. The accused Resham Devi is facing trial for the offence
punishable u/s. 498-A / 302 / 304-B IPC. BRIEF FACTS 2. The case of prosecution is that on 13.02.2019 on receipt of
DD no. 38-A from Safdarjung Hospital regarding admission of lady
namely Baby W/o Shri Sunil with 80% burns SI Rajiv Kumar reached
there and found said lady admitted there. On inquiry it was found that
injured Baby was married with Sunil on 11.05.2018 and since the
incident happened within seven years of marriage, SDM, Kalkaji was
informed. SDM, Kalkaji recorded the statement of injured Baby who
disclosed that her mother-in-law Resham Devi set her on fire in the
morning and left her since she was not happy with her; that apart from
her mother-in-law, her husband, father-in-law and brother-in-law were
residing with her; that her mother-in-law used to beat her; that she has
no complaints with anyone else; that her mother-in-law thrown her out
of the house in December 2018 and used to demand dowry from her.
On the said complaint present FIR was registered u/s. 498-A / 307 IPC
and during investigation of the case, injured Baby died during
treatment and section 307 IPC was replaced with section 302 IPC.
After completion of the investigation charge-sheet was filed against
accused Sunil Kumar, Amrit Ram and Resham Devi @ Poonam for
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 3. On the basis of charge-sheet so submitted before Ld.
Metropolitan Magistrate, cognizance of offence was taken by the Ld.
Metropolitan Magistrate and after compliance with the provisions of Section 207 Cr.PC, the case was committed to the Court of Sessions
and was assigned to this Court. CHARGE 4. After hearing arguments on point of charge and finding a
prima facie case against accused Resham Devi @ Poonam, requisite
charges under section 498-A / 302 / 304-B IPC were framed against her
to which she pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. However no prima
facie case was found against accused Sunil Kumar and Amrit Ram
and hence they were discharged vide order dated 31.08.2019. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 5. In support of its case, the prosecution has examined as many as
fifteen witnesses. 5.1 PW-1 Smt. Asha Devi is the mother of the deceased.
5.2 PW-2 Sh. Nand Kishore is the brother of the deceased.
5.3 PW-3 Sh. Kanwar Pal is the landlord in whose house the
deceased was residing along with her husband and in-laws at the time
of incident and he was the one who received call about the burning of Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: Documents produced on behalf of the prosecution. Ex.PW2/B Handing over memo of dead PW-2 Shri
 body of deceased Nand Kishore
 Ex.PW2/C Seizure memo of marriage PW-2 Shri
 card, photocopies of bills Nand Kishore
 regarding expenditure on
 marriage, photocopies of
 bank passbooks and two
 photographs of the deceased
 with her husband
 Ex.PW6/A Last statement of injured / PW-6 Shri
 dying declaration recorded Aneesh Yadav
 by Tehsildar-cum-Executive
 Magistrate
 Ex.PW6/B Endorsement on the PW-6 Shri
 statement of injured Aneesh Yadav
 Ex.PW6/C Endorsement on the PW-6 Shri
 statement of the PW-1 Aneesh Yadav
 Ex.PW6/D Request letter to the CMO PW-6 Shri
 for conducting postmortem Aneesh Yadav
 Ex.PW7/A Postmortem report PW-7 Dr.
 Manav Sharma
 Ex.PW8/A Scaled site plan PW-8 ACP
 Mukesh
 Kumar Jain
 Ex.PW9/A Seizure memo of exhibits PW-9 HC
 lifted by the Crime Team Budhi Prakash
 from the spot
 Ex.PW9/B Handing over of seizure PW-9 HC
 memo of exhibits by the Budhi Prakash
 doctor to the IO after
 postmortem of deceased Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 6. After completion of prosecution evidence, all the
incriminating material was put to the accused under Section 313 Cr.PC. She pleaded innocence and stated that she has been falsely
implicated in the present case in connivance of the police officials;
that on the day of incident she went to AIIMS Hospital to get
treatment and medicine for her spine problem and while returning
from hospital she came to know that her daughter-in-law burnt
herself; that she immediately went home and took her to Safdarjung
Hospital with help of neighbours. She opted to lead defence evidence
and examined her husband Amrit Ram as DW-1 in her defence. ARGUMENTS 7. Ld. Addl.P.P. argued that the dying declaration of the
deceased is duly proved before the Court by PW-6 Executive
Magistrate which has fully supported the case of the Prosecution; that
the dying declaration of the deceased disclosed the role of the accused
and mode of incident; that PW-1 i.e. mother of the deceased and
PW-2 i.e. brother of the deceased have fully supported the case of the
Prosecution; that deceased has also informed about the happening of
the incident with her to PW-2 Shri Nand Kishore which was duly
deposed by him; that the testimonies of PW-1 and PW-2 have also
been corroborated by the dying declaration which is Ex.PW6/B; that Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 8. I have heard the Ld. Addl. PP for the State as well as Ld.
Counsel for the accused and perused the record.
8.1 The accused is facing trial for the offence punishable u/s.
498-A / 302 / 304-B IPC. 8.2 Section 302 IPC deals with murder. The essential ingredients
of the offence U/s. Section 302 IPC are as follows : a. with the intention of causing death, or
 b. that the accused knew it to be likely to cause death,
 or
 c. that the injury was sufficient in the ordinary course
 of nature to cause death. 8.3 In order to prove the offence U/s.302 IPC against the
accused the Prosecution has to prove : means-- 8.5 A person who subjects a woman to cruelty is liable for
punishment under section 498A IPC. Cruelty has been defined as any
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Traditionally, in any society, the women I subjected to whims and
caprices of the man especially in a relationship between husband an
wife. The following are the ingredient of this section:- (i) The women must be married (ii) She must be subjected to cruelty or harassment and (iii) Such cruelty or harassment must have been shown either by
 husband or the women or by the relative of her husband.
8.7 Section 304-B of the IPC deals with dowry death and it
reads as under: "Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns
or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances
within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before
her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband
or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 8.11 As per the definition of "dowry death" in Section 304B Indian Penal Code and the wording in the presumptive Section 113B of the Evidence Act, one of the essential ingredients amongst others,
in both the provisions is that the woman concerned must have been
'soon before her death' subjected to cruelty or harassment "for or in
connection with the demand for dowry". While considering these
provisions, Hon'ble Supreme Court in M.Srinivasulu Vs. State of A.P. (2007) 12 SCC 443 has observed thus : Digitally signed
 by GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: (This means that the presumption can be raised only if
 the accused is being tried for the offence under Section
 304-B IPC
 (2) The woman was subjected to cruelty or harassment
 by her husband or his relatives. (3) Such cruelty or harassment was for, or in
 connection with any demand for dowry. (4) Such cruelty or harassment was soon before her
 death". 8.12 A perusal of Section 113B of the Evidence Act and Section
304B Indian Penal Code shows that there must be material to show
that "soon before her death" the victim was subjected to cruelty or
harassment. In other words, the prosecution has to rule out the
possibility of a natural or accidental death so as to bring it within the
purview of the "death occurring otherwise than in normal
circumstances". The prosecution is obliged to show that soon before
the occurrence, there was cruelty or harassment and only in that case
presumption operates. Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 8.14 The two ingredients of Section 304B of the Indian Penal
Code are answered in the affirmative since PW-2 Shri Nand Kishore,
PW-4 Ram Sewak and PW-5 Raj Kishore all have deposed that Digitally signed by GEETANJALI GEETANJALI Date: 8.15 The answer to the first question appears to be in
inextricably linked with third question. In order to prove that the
deceased was subjected to harassment and cruelty in connection with
demand of dowry "soon before her death", the Prosecution has relied
on the testimonies of independent witnesses i.e. PW-1 Smt. Asha
Devi, PW-2 Sh. Nand Kishore, PW-3 Sh. Kanwar Pal, PW-4 Ram
 Digitally
Sewak and PW-5 Raj Kishore. signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Agra; that after four days he brought her back to parental home and in
the same evening she was again taken back to her matrimonial home
by her husband where she remained for 10-15 days and thereafter she
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: law. All the aforesaid circumstances raised finger on the veracity of
the last statement of the deceased. 8.25 The Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Irfan @ Naka
Vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh (2023) 11 SCR 789" has held that:- Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 9. Lets have a look as to what all IO did apart from
proceedings u/s. 174 Cr.PC. PW-15 IO/Inspector Anand Swaroop has
deposed that "all the exhibits of this case were deposited in FSL " and
what were those exhibits have been clarified in the evidence of PW-10
SI Rajeev Kumar. Not only that, PW-10 SI Rajeev Kumar is the one
who handled the investigation from day one in the present case. He
has deposed that "On 13.02.2019, he was posted at PS Jaitpur as SI;
that on that day, after receiving DD No. 38A regarding information of
burning of a lady, he along with Ct. Budhi Prakash went to the
Safdarjung Hospital and after reaching there he collected MLC of
victim Baby from concerned doctor and also came to know that
victim Baby was married to Sunil Kumar on 11.05.2018; that as the
case is related within seven years of marriage, he called SDM
concerned who reached at the hospital after sometime; that after
obtaining the opinion from the doctor as victim fit for statement,
SDM concerned has recorded the statement of the victim and also
mentioned as necessary action and handed over to him; that thereafter
he alongwith Ct. Buddi Prakash went to the spot i.e. D-57, Prince
colony, Jaitpur, New Delhi and called the Crime team at the spot ; that
after sometime, Crime team reached at the spot, took the photographs
and also collected the exhibits from the spot and he seized the same." Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Henceforth the Crime team did not find any fingerprint or chance
print at the scene of crime and the report Ex.PW14/A did not say
anything which is connecting the accused with the present case. The
exhibits lifted from the spot i.e. one plastic bottle of Maaza and one
piece of burnt carpet with piece of saree glued to it were sent to FSL
for examination as stated by the IO/Inspector Anand Swaroop. The
FSL report was filed through supplementary chargesheet and the
result of the examination report is "on gas chromatography
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: that he had made a phone call to Sunil and informed him about the
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: Raj Kishore are the ones who acted as mediator between the marriage
of deceased and accused's son namely Sunil. Sh. Ram Sewak was
examined as PW-4 and he has deposed that "he reside at the
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: that he attended both the functions; that he does not know if any
dowry was demanded from the side of groom or was being given
from the side of bride as no such fact happened in his presence; that
later on brother of Baby namely Nand Kishore told him that the
groom side was not ready to take Baby to her matrimonial home and
for this purpose, a panchayat was convened and Baby went to her
matrimonial home; that later on, on 13.02.2019, Nand Kishore called
him up and told him that his sister Baby had set her ablaze; that later
on, police called him and accordingly he visited PS, Jaitpur; that
police inquired him and recorded his statement; that he knows
accused Resham Devi who is present in the court today as she is
mother in law of deceased Baby; that he does not want to depose
anything else". Till here PW-4 Sh. Ram Sewak has not deposed
anything against the accused regarding any dowry demand or
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: that he does not know if any dowry was demanded from the side of
groom or was being given from the side of bride as no such fact
happened in his presence; that later on brother of Baby namely Nand
Kishore told him that the groom side was not ready to take Baby to
her matrimonial home and for this purpose, a panchayat was
convened and Baby went to her matrimonial home; that however he
had not attended said panchayat; that later on, on 13.02.2019, Nand
Kishore called him up and told him that his sister Baby had set her
ablaze; that later on police called him and accordingly he visited PS,
Jaitpur; that police inquired him and recorded his statement; that he
knows accused Resham Devi who is present in the court today as she
is mother in law of deceased Baby; that he does not want to depose
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 10. The case of prosecution is that deceased was set on fire by
the accused due to non-fulfillment of dowry demand. However none
of the witness has deposed any specific date or time as to when and
how accused harassed the deceased for the fulfillment of the dowry
demand. Secondly, the material prosecution witnesses failed to link
that harassment with any dowry demand. They have nowhere deposed
that accused used to harass the deceased with view to coerce her to
meet the said unlawful demand. Further they have not shown any
connection between the said unlawful demand and instances of
harassment as narrated by them which is the essential ingredient of section 498 A IPC. Hon'ble Justice Pradeep Nandrajog in 2007(4)
JCC 3074 has held that "explanation (b) does not make each and
every harassment cruelty. The harassment has to be with a definite
object, namely to coerce the woman or any person related to her to
meet harassment by itself is not cruelty. Mere demand for property
etc. by itself is also not cruelty. It is only where harassment is shown
to have been committed for the purpose of coercing a woman to met
the demands that it is cruelty and this is made punishable under the
section and complainant has failed to show the said nexus between
 Digitally
 signed by
 GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: 11. In view of the aforesaid discussion and the material
available on record, I am of the considered view that the Prosecution
has failed to prove that the deceased was subjected to harassment and
cruelty in connection with demand of dowry "soon before her death" 12. The family members of deceased Baby are hereby referred
to District Legal Services Authority, South East District for
consideration of suitable compensation amount. 13. The case properties are confiscated to State. If no appeal is
preferred by the Prosecution against the acquittal of the accused
persons within the prescribed period of limitation, the case properties
be disposed off as per rules. 14. File be consigned to record room after due compliance. Typed to the direct dictation and Digitally
 signed by
announced in the open court GEETANJALI
 GEETANJALI Date: