Hi team, As per country vacations /country club agreement policy, it was mentioned that customer will be getting refund in 120 days after cancellation of membership within 10 days cooling off period. This membership was taken on sept 12 and cancellation was raised on sept 13 for which i have received revert mail saying the request has been forwarded to concern department. Cancellation was raised for below mentioned reasons: Country vacation manager didn't provide us with enough time to think about the offer. 2. Manager promised to provide gold club with vip/vlm privileges but mail confirmation came with silver club membership. 3. Manager promised to give complimentary breakfast, dinner, sightseeing with car, gunman and driver without paying additional charges along with this gold card. 4. Annual maintenance charges would be waived off for first year and it would be rs10, 500.00 from next year inclusive of all charges. But my account details shows there is balance due of rs12, 050.00 as amc and membership fee of rs1, 250.00 I am totally disappointed due to above concerns, and hence i would like to get a refund of rs1, 28, 000.00 Country vacation manager didn't provide us with enough time to think about the offer. 2. Manager promised to provide gold club with vip/vlm privileges but mail confirmation came with silver club membership. 3. Manager promised to give complimentary breakfast, dinner, sightseeing with car, gunman and driver without paying additional charges along with this gold card. 4. Annual maintenance charges would be waived off for first year and it would be rs10, 500.00 from next year inclusive of all charges. But my account details shows there is balance due of rs12, 050.00 as amc and membership fee of rs1, 250.00 I am totally disappointed due to above concerns, and hence i would like to get a refund of rs1, 28, 000.00 Country vacation manager didn't provide us with enough time to think about the offer. 2. Manager promised to provide gold club with vip/vlm privileges but mail confirmation came with silver club membership. 3. Manager promised to give complimentary breakfast, dinner, sightseeing with car, gunman and driver without paying additional charges along with this gold card. 4. Annual maintenance charges would be waived off for first year and it would be rs10, 500.00 from next year inclusive of all charges. But my account details shows there is balance due of rs12, 050.00 as amc and membership fee of rs1, 250.00 I am totally disappointed due to above concerns, and hence i would like to get a refund of rs1, 28, 000.00 1) country vacation manager did not provide us enough time to think about the offer 2) manager promise to provide gold membership card (Vip/vlm) but mail confirmation came with silver card. 3) very poor customer care response. I had to keep calling them since morning and they will answer the call in evening. 4) first year amc is waved off for us but still we get calls from cv customer care people to pay the amc. Customer care representative mr. Rajshekar reverted to our mail that cancellation request has been forwarded to concerned department. As per cv policy we have to wait for 120 days for refund to be initiated. Its already been 150 days now. Everytime we call customer care they ask us to wait for one more week. If this is how the policy is followed. Please Look into this and initiate my refund.