The Criminal Original Petition is filed by the petitioners to set aside

 the order in Crl.M.P.No.53 of 2019 in S.C.No.2 of 2018, dated 08.02.2019

 passed by the learned Sessions Judge, The Nilgiris, Udhagamandalam

 District. 2. Mr.N.R.Elango, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 petitioners submits that the petitioners are arrayed as accused A1 & A2

 respectively in S.C.No.2 of 2018 which was taken cognizance for the

 alleged offences under Sections 120(B) , 147 , 148 , 149 , 447 , 449 , 458 , 324 , 342 , 395 r/w Sections 396 & 397 and 302 IPC. There are 11

 accused in this case and after the death of the deceased C.Kanagaraj-A1

 in a road accident, the petitioners are arrayed as accused A1 and A2. In

 fact, the first petitioner was involved in a road accident where his wife,

 children and his friend died and he also sustained grievous injuries. The

 said accident took place on 29.04.2017 and he was admitted in a

 Hospital at Coimbatore and thereafter, he was arrested and remanded to

 judicial custody on 06.06.2017 and he was enlarged on bail by an order

 in Crl.M.P.No.1881 of 2017, dated 11.09.2017 passed by the learned

 Judicial Magistrate, Kotagiri, under Section 167 (2) of CrPC. Thereafter,

 the conditions imposed on the first petitioner were also modified by the
http://www.judis.nic.in 3 order in Crl.Rc.No.9 of 2017, dated 20.11.2017 passed by the learned

 Sessions Judge, Udhagamandalam District. 3. As far as the second petitioner is concerned, he was arrested

 and remanded to judicial custody on 01.05.2017 and thereafter, he was

 enlarged on bail by an order in Crl.M.P.No.941 of 2017, dated

 15.12.2017 passed by the learned Sessions Judge, The Nilgiris,

 Udhagamandalam District. Further, the learned senior counsel for the

 petitioners submits that on 11.01.2019 one Mathew Samuel, an

 investigative journalist, released a documentary containing interviews of

 the petitioners regarding the circumstances of the alleged occurrence in

 S.C.No.2 of 2018 and this documentary was widely circulated in visual

 and social media. In the said interview, the petitioners stated that

 Thiru.Edappadi K. Palaniswamy, the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu

 engaged the deceased accused C.Kanagaraj-A1, to loot the house of the

 former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Late.Selvi Jayalalitha, at Kodanadu

 Estate and he in turn recruited the petitioners to commit the said

 offence. The deceased C.Kanagaraj-A1 informed that the dacoity was

 being committed at the behest of Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami and

 that he had already made arrangements for the dacoity took place and

 that he would protect them and pay money for committing the offence.
http://www.judis.nic.in 4 Further, the learned counsel would submit that in the interview, the

 present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami

 stated before the press that for the interviews given by the petitioners

 strict action would be taken. After the publication of the said

 documentary, the CCB Team-I, Chennai, has registered a case in Crime

 No.21 of 2019 against the petitioners and 5 others for the offences under Sections 153A , 505(1)(b) , 505(1)(c) and 505(2) r/w Section 120(B) IPC

 alleging that the visual and social media with false and provocative

 contents and the interviews with the malicious intention targeted the

 present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami,

 former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu late.Selvi.J.Jayalalitha and other

 Ministers and it was uploaded with a malafide intention and the same

 would lead to riots and disharmony in Society. In fact, the petitioners

 were arrested by the CCB Team-I on 14.01.2019 at New Delhi and they

 were produced before the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Egmore, Chennai-8, for remand. But their remand was rejected on the

 ground that the arrest was illegal due to non-compliance of the direction

 issued by this Court and there was no sufficient material to justify the

 remand and the offences which were registered as against the petitioners

 were not made out. The learned senior counsel further submits that the

 present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami has
http://www.judis.nic.in 5 also filed a suit in C.S.No.82 of 2019 before this Court claiming damages

 and also seeking for an injunction as against the petitioners for making

 further statements against him and other Ministers. This Court by an

 order dated 23.01.2019 granted interim injunction against the petitioners

 and it is pending. In fact, the petitioners have also challenged the FIR

 registered in Crime No.21 of 2019 before this Court in Crl.O.P.No.2003 of

 2019 and this Court granted stay of all further proceedings and it is

 pending. In the meanwhile, the respondent has filed a petition for

 cancellation of bail granted to the petitioners before the Trial Court and

 the same was allowed and the bail granted to the petitioners was

 cancelled by the order impugned. 4. The learned senior counsel further submits that the bail

 granted cannot be cancelled unless or otherwise overwhelming and

 supervening circumstances exist so as to compel the judicial mind of the

 Court that it would be no longer conducive to hold a fair trial without

 cancelling the bail of the accused. The learned senior counsel further

 submits that the petitioners did not make any comment with any of the

 witnesses provocative to the trial in S.C.No.2 of 2018 and they never

 approached any of the witnesses and never intimated them. Now, the

 respondent has completed the enquiry and also filed a final report and
http://www.judis.nic.in 6 committed for trial. Therefore, there is no question of tampering or

 hampering the evidence. The circumstances averred to cancel the bail

 granted to the petitioners are with malafide intention and it is under the

 directions of the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi

 K.Palaniswami, the petition for cancellation of bail was filed to escape the

 Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu from the clutches of law. The

 learned senior counsel further submits that the first petitioner had filed a

 petition on 02.02.2019 under Section 164 of CrPC., to record his

 statement before the Trial Court. It is legally admissible evidence and

 the Trial Court concluded that the statements of the petitioners had

 created alarm in the minds of the society, inspite of the fact that this

 Court concluded that the statements of the petitioners did not come

 within the ambit of any such offence and at most, affected the reputation

 of the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi

 K.Palaniswami. The learned Counsel further submits that the bail

 granted to the petitioners was cancelled only on account of the freedom

 of speech expressed by them and it violates their right under Article

 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. The petition filed by the first

 petitioner under Section 164 of CrPC., was returned for some defects. In

 fact, the statement made by the petitioners regarding the involvement of

 the present Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K. Palaniswami
http://www.judis.nic.in 7 is direct evidence under Section 60 of the Indian Evidence Act and it is

 admissible in law by virtue of Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act.

 Further, he submits that L.W.22 does not allege in her complaint that she

 was subjected to any kind of direct or indirect threat or intimidation not

 to depose in the trial or to favour the accused. In fact, interview does

 not refer to the names as alleged and she has not named the petitioners

 in her statement recorded under Section 161 of CrPC. Further, he

 submits that the trial Trial Court while cancelling the bail did not even

 peruse the documentary or the written transcripts of interview given by

 the petitioners. Therefore, he prayed to set aside the order of

 cancellation of bail to the petitioners. 5. Per contra, the learned Public Prosecutor filed a

 counter and contended that the petitioners are arrayed as A1 & A2 in

 S.C.No.2 of 2018 for the offences under Sections 120(B) , 147 , 148 , 149 ,

 447, 449, 458, 324, 342, 395 r/w Sections 396 & 397 and 302 IPC. After

 22 months of the occurrence, the petitioners conspired with one

 Mr.Mathew Samuel and others and fabricated a new dimension to the

 prosecution case in S.C.No.2 of 2018 through an interview circulated on

 Social Media through a press meet held at New Delhi on 11.01.2019.

 The said act of the petitioners is clear abuse of the liberty granted to
http://www.judis.nic.in 8 them in the bail, abetting trial by media, by interfering with the

 administration of justice. The trial by media influences the public

 opinion, version of the witnesses by thrusting the media's opinion,

 developing sympathy for the accused or victim besides the Presiding

 Officers, being influenced as judges, and they will be unconsciously

 influenced in the delicate task of administering justice. The publication

 of an interview amount to interfering with the administration of justice.

 Further, the learned Public Prosecutor would contend that the

 cancellation of bail order is a final one and as against which only a

 revision is maintainable, and as per the provision under Section 482 of

 CrPC., this petition is not maintainable and it can be invoked only in the

 event of no other alternative remedy available. Further, he would

 contend that after taking cognizance in S.C.No.2 of 2018, the accused

 persons did not even attend the Court regularly with an intention to

 prolong the case even at the stage of framing of charges itself and it is

 pending for more than one year. Further, contended that the petitioners

 are the prime accused in this case and they along with 9 others have

 committed serious crime in Kodanadu Estate Bungalow and the

 Watchman was also murdered by them. The petitioners have already

 involved in the criminal cases and in fact, the second petitioner already

 involved in the murder case pertaining to the Crime No.961 of 2016 on
http://www.judis.nic.in 9 the file of Puthukkadu Police Station. Therefore, the petitioners are

 habitual offenders. One Mr.Mathew Samuel who claims to be the CEO of

 Narada New Portal [Online Magazine], is a person popularly known to be

 a blackmailer. He involved in honey trap case by using a journalist

 women by name Angel Abraham for sexually inducing former Kerala

 Chief Secretary and the conversation between Angel Abraham and

 Mathew Samuel reveals the 'modus operandi' for blackmailing the Chief

 Secretary of Kerala. The NDTV news article dated April 17, 2017,

 denotes another case of extortion for Rs.5 crores by the said Mathew

 Samuel. Therefore, the antecedents of the said Mathew Samuel and the

 petitioners had clearly established that they are blackmailers and the

 persons of criminal background. Though the petitioners and the said

 Mathew Samuel conspired together and concocted a new version to the

 occurrence dated 23.04.2017 at Kodanadu Estate Bungalow, connecting

 the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami,

 as though he is interested in removing certain documents from Kodanadu

 Estate Bungalow with the aid of one deceased C.Kanagaraj who arrayed

 as first accused, the entire interview, is baseless and inadmissible in law

 as per Section 60 of the Indian Evidence Act and it reveals that the

 concerned accused are noway having any connection with the Hon'ble

 Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Now, the murder case in S.C.No.2 of 2018
http://www.judis.nic.in 10 is at the stage of framing of charges. At this juncture, the said Mathew

 Samuel had introduced new theory through the interview in the press

 conference at New Delhi on 11.01.2019 and released the video. As per

 the interview, the petitioners had stated that they do not know the

 Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and they did not meet him and also

 did not speak to him at any point of time. It further reveals that the

 deceased C.Kanagaraj-A1 in S.C.No.2 of 2018 informed them that they

 will get money if some documents available in the Kodanadu Estate

 Bungalow are taken and handed over to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of

 Tamil Nadu. This conversation between the petitioners and the said

 C.Kanagaraj-A1 is "hearsay in nature" and inadmissible as per Section 60 of the Indian Evidence Act. Therefore, only with a malafide intention and

 to distract the entire proceedings, the interview was given by the

 petitioners and it is nothing but blackmailing and diverting the root of the

 trial. Therefore, the Trial Court has rightly cancelled their bail and

 concluded that the interview is clear interference with the administration

 of justice and it would defeat the entire criminal justice delivery system.

 It was also considered by this Court in the suit filed by the Hon'ble Chief

 Minister of Tamil Nadu in C.S.No.82 of 2019, which granted interim

 injunction restraining the petitioners from giving national interview. After

 the interview, L.W.22-Tmt.Santha lodged a complaint and registered a
http://www.judis.nic.in 11 case in Crime No.63 of 2019 as against the petitioners. Further L.W.24 -

 Pradeesh @ Pradeep Kumar, was waylaid by some persons and

 threatened with dire consequences if he deposes before the concerned

 Court and therefore, he also filed another complaint. The said complaint

 was registered in Crime No.71 of 2019. Therefore, the bail granted to

 the petitioners was rightly cancelled. The learned Public Prosecutor

 would further contend that the petitioners have stated in their bail

 petition that they are innocent and they are no way connected with the

 alleged occurrence of murder case, whereas in the interview said that the

 murder of the watchman in the Kodanadu Estate Bungalow was

 committed by them along with other accused persons. It shows that the

 petitioners made false statements and also misrepresented before the

 Trial Court and as such their bail was rightly cancelled. In this regard,

 the learned Public Prosecutor has relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court in: 6. Heard Mr.N.R.Elango, learned Senior Counsel

 appearing for the petitioners and Mr.A.Natarajan, learned Public

 Prosecutor for the respondent. 7. The petitioners are arrayed as A1 and A2 for the

 offences under Sections 120(B) , 147 , 148 , 149 , 447, 449, 458, 324, 342,

 395 read with Sections 396 and 397 and 302 IPC in S.C.No.2 of 2018 on

 the file of the Sessions Judge, The Nilgiris, Udhagamandalam District. 8. The petitioners along with other co-accused persons

 have been charged for the above said offences for the occurrence took

 place on 23.04.2017, thereby they committed the dacoity and murder in

 the house of the former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu

 late.Selvi.J.Jayalalitha at Kodanadu Estate Bungalow. The 1st petitioner

 met with a road accident in which his wife, children and his friend died

 and he also sustained grievous injuries. Thereafter, he was arrested on

 06.06.2017 and was released on bail in Crl.M.P.No.1881 of 2017, on

http://www.judis.nic.in 13 default bail under Section 167(2) of Criminal Procedure Code in

 Crl.M.P.No.1881 of 2017. The second petitioner was arrested and

 remanded to judicial custody on 01.05.2017 and was released on bail in

 Crl.M.P.No.941 of 2017 by an order dated 15.12.2017. 9. The respondent police have completed the

 investigation and filed charge sheet on 15.09.2017 for the offences under Sections 120(B) , 147 , 148 , 149 , 447, 449, 458, 324, 342, 395 read with Sections 396 & 397 and 302 IPC before the learned Judicial Magistrate,

 Kotagiri. Thereafter, it was committed to the Court of Sessions, the

 learned District Court of Sessions, The Nilgiris, Udhagamandalam and

 was taken cognizance in S.C.No.2 of 2018. It is also seen that the

 accused persons did not attend the Court regularly and it is pending for

 framing of charges for the past one year. 10. After a period of one year on 11.01.2019, one

 Mr.Mathew Samuel, an investigative journalist, released a documentary

 containing interview of the petitioners regarding the circumstances of the

 occurrence took place in the Kodanadu Estate Bungalow. In the said

 interview, the petitioners stated that the present Hon'ble Chief Minister of

 Tamil Naud Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami, has engaged the deceased
http://www.judis.nic.in 14 C.Kanagaraj-A1 to loot in the house of the former Chief Minister of Tamil

 Nadu late.Selvi.J.Jayalalitha at Kodanadu Estate Bungalow and he in turn

 engaged the petitioners and others to commit dacoity at the behest of

 the present Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. He also made

 arrangements for the dacoity took place and assured that he would

 protect them and pay money for committing the offence. 11. It reveals that the petitioners have introduced a new

 story through the interview in the press conference at New Delhi on

 11.01.2019 and also released the video alleging that the present Hon'ble

 Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami, interested in

 removing certain documents from Kodanadu Estate Bungalow and

 instructed the deceased C.Kanagaraj-A1. The deceased C.Kanagaraj-A1

 had informed them that he will get money after handing over the

 documents to the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi

 K.Palaniswami. Though the statements made by the petitioners are

 inadmissible in evidence, it amounts to direct interference with the

 administration of justice when the trial is pending. Further, this interview

 was given by the petitioners after more than one year from the date of

 filing of charge sheet. Till today there is no explanation from the

 petitioners about the purpose for which the interview was given by them.
http://www.judis.nic.in 15 Admittedly, it is "hearsay evidence" by the petitioners and after 22

 months from the date of occurrence without even approaching the Court

 of law, the petitioners opted the media and press and it creates doubt in

 respect of the relationship between the petitioners and an investigative

 journalist Mr.Mathew Samuel. It is also seen that the said Mathew

 Samuel is facing so many cases in respect of blackmailing the VIPs for

 ransom by sexually inducing them with women. It is also seen from the

 interview that the entire allegations are bald and vague without any

 material to prove the said allegations. The said interview was given by

 the petitioners only to misdirect with intention to deviate the Trial Court

 and also to tarnish the name of the present Hon'ble Chief Minister of

 Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami. 12. After the interview, there is a threat for the list

 witnesses L.W.22-Tmt.Santha and she lodged a complaint before the

 Inspector of Police, B-1 Ooty Town Central Police Station,

 Udhagamandalam District and registered a case in Crime No.63 of 2019.

 The allegations are that the petitioners at the time of occurrence had

 stayed in Raja Lodge owned by L.W.22-Tmt.Santha and after the

 interview, unidentified persons have come to the Raja Lodge and

 enquired about the murder case, interviewed and also made her to fear.
http://www.judis.nic.in 16 The another witness L.W.24-Pradeed @ Pradeep Kumar, has also lodged

 a complaint before the same Police Station and registered in Crime No.71

 of 2019 with the allegation that unidentified persons have threatened

 him not to depose in the murder case against the petitioners and also

 tried to attack him when he escaped from the attack, and due to which

 they damaged his entire bike. Further, the interview and the press

 release would change the minds of the witnesses and also one way of

 threat to other witnesses. Since they stated that the offences committed

 only on the instruction of the present Hon'ble Chief Minister of Tamil

 Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami, it would affect and the mind of the

 witnesses which ultimately result in defeat of entire judicial system. The

 previous antecedences of the petitioners are also very bad since they

 involved in so many cases. In respect of the first accused is concerned,

 he also involved in the Crime No.425 of 2017 on the file of Inspector of

 Police, Palacode, South Traffic Police Station. In respect of the second

 petitioner is concerned several cases are pending against him in the

 State of Kerala and including one murder case in Crime No.961 of 2016

 on the file of Puthukkadu Police Station in the State of Kerala. As such,

 they are habitual offenders and their intention is very clear that only to

 distract the minds of the Trial Court and to make the other witnesses to

 fear. http://www.judis.nic.in 17 13. Further, the learned Public Prosecutor has rightly

 pointed out that if at all the petitioners want to reveal something, they

 would have approached the Court by way of filing an appropriate petition

 and could have made statements and revealed the truth immediately

 after the occurrence. Admittedly, the interview was given by the

 petitioners after a period of 22 months from the date of occurrence and

 it shows that the intention of the petitioners is only to spoil the entire

 criminal justice delivery system. 14. In this regard, the learned Public Prosecutor relied

 upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, reported in 2005 (1)

 ACR 656 (SC), in M.P.Lohia and Ors v. State of West Bengal and

 Ors., In paragraph 10 of the said judgment , it has been observed as

 follows: However, to prevent any further issue being raised in this
 regard, we treat this matter as closed and hope that the other
 concerned in journalism would take note of this displeasure
 expressed by us for interfering with the administration of
 justice. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that the publication of the

 Article in magazine based on interview is certainly interfering with the

 administration of justice. In Reliance Petrochemicals Ltd., v. Proprietors of

 Indian Express Newspapers, Bombay Pvt., Ltd., and Ors , reported

 in AIR 1989 SC 190, In paragraph 23 of the said judgment , it has been

 observed as follows: http://www.judis.nic.in 20 In Mohit and Ors v. State of U.P. and Ors. , reported in

 AIR 2013 SC 2248, In paragraph 21 of the said judgment , it has been

 observed as follows: The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held while cancelling the bail, very

 cogent and overwhelming circumstances are necessary for an order

 directing the cancellation of bail already granted. In State of Maharashtra v. Rajendra Jawanmal

 Gandhi , reported in AIR 1997 SC 3986. In paragraph 38 of the said

 judgment , it has been observed as follows: As a matter of fact the crime is not only against the
 victim it is against the whole society as well. Since late,
 there has been spurt in crimes relating to sexual
 offences. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has held a trial by press, electronic

 media or public agitation is the very antithesis of Rule of law. It can very

 well lead to miscarriage of justice. In State of (Delhi Administration) v. Sanjay Gandhi ,

 reported in AIR 1978 SC 961. In Case Note:(i) of the said judgment , it has

 been observed as follows: 15. The learned Public Prosecutor has also relied upon the

 decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Jogendra Nahak and Ors. v.

 State of Orissa and Ors. reported in AIR 1999 SC 2565. In

 paragraphs 24 to 26 of the said judgment , it has been observed as

 follows: http://www.judis.nic.in 24 26. The last contention that the High Court should not
 have mulcted the appellant with costs, as they approached
 the court in view of the legal position set by the Orissa High
 Court on earlier occasions. Cost was ordered in the
 discretion of the High Court, and it is not proper for us to
 interfere with such a discretion. 16. The learned District Judge has rightly returned the petition

 filed under Section 164(1) of Criminal Procedure Code to record the

 petitioners' statements. The interview through media and press release

 certainly amounts to interference with the due administration of justice.

 The above judgments cited by the learned Public Prosecutor are squarely

 applicable to the facts of this case. In respect of the petition filed

 under Section 164 of CrPC., before the Trial Court is concerned,

 admittedly, the said petition was filed after the interview namely on

 11.01.2019. The said petition was filed only on 02.02.2019 and it was

 returned by the Court below for the reason that corrections in para

 Nos.17 and 18 of the affidavit to be attested, pages stated to be in the

 affidavit and the Non- Bailable-Warrant is pending against the first

 accused. It is seen from the petition that the first petitioner/A1 only filed

 the said petition that too after the interview through media and press.

http://www.judis.nic.in 25 17. Though it was returned for certain compliance, it is liable to

 be rejected for the reason that after completion of investigation and after

 filing of charge sheet, it is filed. The sessions case in S.C.No.2 of 2018 is

 pending for framing of charges. All the accused are not appeared before

 the Trial Court and the first accused after Section 317 CrPC., petition

 filed and invited Non-Bailable-Warrant and subsequently it was recalled.

 It is also seen that after the interview, the case has been registered as

 against the petitioner in Crime No.21 of 2019 by the CCB Team-I,

 Chennai, for the offence under Section 153A , 505(1)(b) , 505(1)(c) and 505(2) IPC. 18. Though the said First Information Report was stayed by this

 Court, it is no way connected with the cancellation of bail to the

 petitioners. It is also seen that the present Hon'ble Chief Minister of

 Tamil Nadu Thiru.Edappadi K.Palaniswami in his personal capacity filed a

 suit before this Court in C.S.No.82 of 2019 in which in O.A.No.86 of

 2019, this Court restrained the petitioners not to give press release and

 not to speak in the press by an order dated 23.01.2019. It is also

 nothing to do with the cancellation of bail to the petitioners. Therefore,

 the Court below has rightly concluded that the interview through media

 and press of the petitioners would disturb the mind of the witnesses and
http://www.judis.nic.in 26 it amounts to clear case of misusing of liberty given to the petitioners. It

 would also amount to tampering and hampering the evidences and

 witnesses when the sessions case in S.C.No.2 of 2018 is pending for trial.

 As such, the order of impugned in this petition does not warrant any

 interference by this Court, and this Court finds no infirmity or illegality in

 the order passed by the Court below. 19. In view of the above discussions, the Criminal Original

 Petition is dismissed. Consequently, connected Crl.M.P.No.2715 of 2019

 is also closed. 06.03.2019

 Internet: Yes
 Index : Yes/No
 Speaking/Non Speaking order
 msm

 To 1. The Inspector of Police,
 Kotagiri Police Station, Kotagiri, The Nilgiris. 2.The Additional Public Prosecutor,
 High Court, Madras. http://www.judis.nic.in 27 G.K.ILANTHIRAIYAN, J. msm Crl.O.P.No.4533 of 2019 06.03.2019

http://www.judis.nic.in