The present first petition has been filed under Section 482 of the

BNSS, 2023 for grant of pre-arrest bail to the petitioner in case bearing FIR

No.02 dated 05.01.2026, under Sections 127(2), 308(2), 351(2), 61(2) of

BNS, 2023 registered at Police Station Sherpur, District Sangrur. 2. The FIR in the present case has been registered on the statement

of Gurchet Singh son of Lal Singh. The allegations levelled in the FIR reads

thus:- 3. Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner contends

that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the aforesaid case alongwith

co-accused Shinder Kaur and Harjeet Kaur. He contends that the petitioner

had in fact sold her jewellery items to the respondent-complainant and when

she demanded the money back, the present case has been foisted upon her. It

is alleged that co-accused Shinder Kaur has already been granted concession

of regular bail. He further contends that there is a delay of 07 months in

registration of FIR which clearly shows that it is a case of false implication

against the petitioner. He contends that the money in question had not been

received by the petitioner and the same was given to Shinder Kaur, hence,

no recovery of any nature is to be effected from the petitioner. Therefore,

custodial interrogation of the petitioner is not required. He further contends

that the petitioner as well as the complainant belong to Zamin Prapti

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 23-02-2026 20:37:41 ::: CRM-M-6570-2026 -4- Sangrash Committee and that on account of the inter se power-struggle

between the members of the Committee, the present FIR has been got

registered against the petitioner by the rival group. 4. Learned State Counsel, on the other hand, contends that the

petitioner is the person who allured the complainant into the house by a

honey trap and was instrumental in getting the objectionable videos

recorded. She contends that delay in registration of such cases is

inconsequential as usually people try to resolve such disputes mutually and it

is only when the pressure becomes onerous that a person goes to the Police

authorities to report such incidents. Therefore, delay in registration of FIR

should not weigh in favour of the petitioner. She further contends that the

fact that the petitioner is involved in another similar case pertaining to honey

trap qua which FIR No. 363 dated 08.08.2025 have been registered clearly

shows that it is regular modus operandi for the petitioner. 5. I have heard learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the parties

and have gone through the documents appended alongwith the present

petition. 6. The present case is a case of honey trap whereby victim was

allured into a vacant house where his objectionable videos were recorded

and then the demand was raised for money to be paid, failing which the

videos shall be circulated within the town. The contention of the petitioner

that the co-accused has been granted bail would not come to her aid as the

said co-accused Shinder Kaur was granted regular bail and not an

anticipatory bail. Besides, the petitioner has been raising the contradictory

pleas. In her first contention about false implication, it was contended that

she sold her gold ornaments to the complainant and was demanding her

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 23-02-2026 20:37:41 ::: CRM-M-6570-2026 -5- money back and for the said reason has been falsely implicated, however, in

the second version, the Counsel for the petitioner has contended that the

rival group of Zamin Prapti Sangarsh Committee has set up the respondent-

complainant to get false FIR registered against the petitioner. The version

being put forth by the petitioner is not corroborated by any evidence. There

is no direct link to suggest that petitioner is being falsely implicated. The

respondent-complainant had specifically named the petitioner to be the

person who allured him to enter into the house and hence, the petitioner

actively participated in extortion of the respondent-complainant. Her

involvement in similar offences clearly shows that she is habitual offender.

The petitioner thus, does not deserve concession of pre-arrest bail. The present petition is accordingly dismissed.