> 

 

Title: Further discussion on the motion for consideration of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005 moved by Shri Sushil Kumar Shinde on 4th May, 2007 (Bill Passed). MR. CHAIRMAN: Now, the House will take up Item No.15. SHRI K.S. RAO ( ELURU ): Sir, I welcome the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005 brought by Shri Sushil Kumar Shinde, the hon. Minister. Sir, it is known that the direction of the National Common Minimum Programme is to supply electricity to all the villages and hamlets. By virtue of the Bill of 2003, the onus rests only with the State Governments to bear that expenditure. It is our common experience that when we go to the villages, particularly to the areas where poor people live, they ask for power supply. They say they do not have power supply; they do not have streetlights. Then, if we call the State Government’s officers, they say that about 12 poles are to be laid and wire is to be drawn and we do not have fund for it. That goes on for years together. So, naturally this Act by providing subsidy to an extent of 90 per cent on the capital outlay is really a boon, particularly to the villages and to the hamlets. It is also a common practice that whenever a facility is to be created in the urban area, be it power supply or communication or water supply or any other thing which is needed for the people, the concerned organization will jump and do it. The reason being the number of customers in those areas is substantial and the per capita investment would be less. MR. CHAIRMAN: It is economical viability. SHRI K.S. RAO : But when it comes to the rural areas, if there were 100 houses, 100 families, living in a village and the area is far way from the main supply, then the cost of providing that supply is substantial. So, nobody will come forward. The State Government will say they do not have money. That is the pathetic condition that is going on in the rural areas. It is our responsibility to provide that when we say the country is growing and growing. If it means that the growth is only in the urban areas, it is a shame on us. So, the entire people, particularly the poorer sections and the rural areas, should grow. Unless the supply and the facilities are increased there, naturally all the people will flock to the cities. That is the reason why the population in the urban areas is growing phenomenally and people are leaving the rural areas. In most of the villages, when we go to the houses, be it the houses of poor or middle class, they are deserted because there is no facility there. So, this Act provides all those things, eliminates this migration and creates an impression that we do not need to migrate from rural areas to urban areas. If the basic facilities like power supply, education and health are provided, nobody would be bothered to go to the urban areas. Here, some of the provisions, which the hon. Minister has made, are very good. Under the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana, an amount of Rs.16,225 crore is allocated from the Consolidated Fund of India. Out of which Rs.14,750 crore is only for subsidising the line which is a good thing. The first phase began in 2005-06 with Rs.5,000 crore subsidy provided from the Consolidated Fund of India. All that I would request the hon. Minister is to ensure that this fund is utilized properly and economically[MSOffice17] . It is because the organizations who are implementing it invariably are only the State Governments. We must ensure that they utilize it properly. A proper monitoring also is to be done by the Government of India and not to be contented only by providing subsidies to them. The second thing is that invariably we find that there is a lot of theft, very unreasonable theft. Sometimes, it is 30 per cent or even 40 per cent. The transmission losses are also very substantial. These things are also to be curbed. To curb that, particularly the theft, there must be a stringent provision for punishing those people who are resorting to that. Earlier, the Police had no authority to investigate into the case and take immediate action on them. Now, with this amendment, that provision also is being made. Apart from that, some special courts are also created to see that the culprit is punished immediately. Normally, only when there is a fear of stringent punishment for a person who is committing a mistake, there will be a check on him. Otherwise, even under the law of probability, they will think and calculate that even if they were to be found or caught once in ten times, they are prone to commit the mistake regularly. My opinion is that the punishment should be still more substantial, not at Rs. 10,000 or Rs. 20,000. When it is found that a person is misusing the power intentionally, he must be punished substantially. But there are certain cases where, without intention but because of ignorance there can be some mistakes in the sealing of the meter or something of that kind. In such cases, they should not be punished. The corrupt officials should not be made to punish the innocent and then leave the real culprit. This is what is going on there. Some provision has to be made in this regard. On the availability of power, unfortunately the statistics reveal that for domestic consumption it is 79 kilowatt-hours, that is 79 units in a year. That means, one bulb used for five hours in a family is the order of the day today. It is very pathetic. One bulb of 40 watts capacity, utilized for five hours is the average consumption. Obviously, we can understand how many people are left in this country in rural areas without power supply at all. Earlier, it was difficult because power generation was completely in the Government sector. Then we used to say that the Government has no money to invest and that is why the power generation could not be done. But today, with globalization, with bringing in a new Act empowering the private sector to enter into power production, we must encourage them more and more to generate more and more power. There are enough number of people to generate power in this country. It is only that the Government has to motivate them and then amend the law in a manner that it encourages all the people. Sometimes what is happening is that in collusion with the Government officials, they are increasing the cost of the power plant. Sometimes they are saying, it is Rs. five crore per megawatt of production. Initially, when it was open to the private sector, some of the people have misused it and then they said that the capital investment is about Rs. four crore, or Rs. 4.5 crore or Rs. five crore per megawatt and then based on that they arrived at the price of the unit of power. That means it is a burden on the people. Privatization should always be to bring down the cost of generation and supply of power, but not to increase the cost of power which is very unfortunate. That is why, my humble request to the hon. Minister is to motivate the private sector to compete with each other and to bring down the cost of generation which is possible now. More particularly, with the dollar value coming down substantially, the capital cost of the power generation can be brought to Rs. two crore per megawatt, that means half of the present cost. All that they have to do is to encourage more and more people to come in. There, only red-tapism is playing a very bad role. If red-tapism is reduced and if it is given through a single window, then a lot of people will come and generate power and power will be available in surplus throughout the country and then we can make it available to the poor people also in the rural areas. With these words, I support this Bill and extend my thanks to the hon. Minister for bringing this amendment now. [MSOffice18]  
 

[MSOffice19]  

 

SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ): Sir, our hon. Minister has presented this Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005 in this House. There was a Bill in 2003 also. There took place a number of discussions and many States had given their views. … (Interruptions) SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Sir, I think, it is the turn of our party Member to be called to speak. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : When the discussion started, Shri Kiren Rijiju had spoken on behalf of the BJP last Friday. After him, Shri K.S. Rao had started speaking. We are going by rotation. Do not be in doubt on this issue. We are very much in line with the practices. We are not over-ruling the practices. Do not worry. We will take care of this. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Many States had given their views. The Bill had also gone to the Standing Committee and it was discussed in detail by the Standing Committee. After the Report of the Standing Committee containing their suggestions, I think, some of the positive amendments have been included in the Bill. So, to that extent, I really welcome this Bill. One of the major objections that we had raised to this Bill was the elimination of cross-subsidy. It was really a matter of repeated discussions in Kerala and in almost all the States and many States have really pointed out this issue, but it is partially solved. We find that elimination of cross-subsidy is not seen in this Bill. The cross-subsidy is admitted, but at the same time, reduction in subsidy is not eliminated and is still there. So, in the course of time, I think, the Minister may move for the elimination of the cross-subsidy because reduction of subsidy is still there. So, I would request the Government that for the sake of the common man, that subsidy has to be given to many sections. So, that aspect also has to be included in the amendments. I think, the Standing Committee has given its unanimous suggestion for elimination and reduction of subsidy. That also should be taken into consideration. Now, I come to the other amendment that has been given in this Bill. It was the authority of the State Governments to take the responsibility for the rural electrification, especially distribution of electricity. In this Bill, it is the joint effort of the Central Government and State Government. I think, we can present the matter in a better way that the Central Government can consult the State Government and the Central and State Governments can do this work because State has the responsibility for production and generation of electricity and distribution of electricity and creation of infrastructure to a large extent. The State has to do this work. The other amendment to which I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister relates to theft, as stated by hon. Member, Shri K.S. Rao. Of course, we do agree that in many places, there are thefts of electrical materials, lines or wires and that has to be addressed. At the same time, in this Bill, there is a doubt relating to unauthorised usage and theft as both these are having identical definitions. I think, unauthorised usage and theft are not equal. Of course, if there is unauthorised usage, it has to be taken into account, but theft has to be dealt with serious punishment. But I would submit that unauthorised usage and theft are entirely different things. There is an identical definition or interpretation of the two in this Bill. So, that has also to be changed. Hon. Minister can use some other words. The other thing which I want to make clear is about captive generation. When we discussed the Bill last Friday, there were not many amendments from the side of the Government, but now a number of amendments have come from the side of the Government. One among them is that a captive generator has to secure a license for supply of electricity. This clause can create a serious loophole in the law. As it stands, any group can claim that they have set up captive units for their requirements anywhere in the country and demand that the power produced can be wheeled to them via open access. This, in itself, is an anomaly in the Act and can lead to generators who can claim that they are actually only captive units supplying power to a group of industries. Sir, we can admit that captive generators are needed, but at the same time, they are not coming within the purview of any law. They are free from all obligations.[s20]  

 16.00 hrs. 

Therefore, they can really misuse the loopholes or misuse some of the clauses of the Bill. I do not say that there is any intention in the mind of the Minister about some litigation presently going on in the court, but there is an ongoing case of Bhushan Steel against the Maharashtra State Electricity Board. It is really because of captive generation that the power of Electricity Board is questioned, but they are arguing for their own capacity. But I feel that the prescribed amendment may be utilized in favour of it. As regards utilization of electricity, electricity has become an essential item nowadays. We are in need of more and more electricity for almost all the items. It is true. The hon. Minister while mentioning about the total power generated in the country regionwise and Statewise has stated that there is a Government pool or the unallocated pool, and the Central Government can assist the States where there is shortage of electricity. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Government of Kerala has been getting 148 MGM, but now it has been reduced to 13.6 MGM. We tried to get an answer in this House during the Question Hour about doing it, but we could not succeed. What is the reason for doing it? There is no justification at all for doing it. The share of 148 MGM has been reduced to 13.6 MGM. At the same time, the share of some of the other States has been increased. This decision of the Central Government has really upset the plan made by the Electricity Board and the Government of Kerala to share electricity in different parts. This issue should also be looked into by the Minister. I think that the Minister is convinced with this fact. Therefore, a decision should be taken by him in this matter also. We have one major thermal plant in Kayankulam. Still we are short of electricity because we are not able to use it as the cost of production in Kayankulam is high. We get about Rs. 6 per unit of power from there, which is because of Naptha being used for generation of electricity. In the initial stages there was concession in the price of Naphtha, but I think that the total tax now comes to about 30 per cent including excise duty, etc. Therefore, the Minister should take initiative to solve this issue in the Ministry, and reduce the excise duty on Naphtha. Otherwise, the electricity produced from there cannot be used by the State, and the common people. Kerala had requested 200 MGM from the mega-power project of NTPC. The discussion of the power-purchasing agreement is going on. The Central Government gives financial assistance to these mega-projects or ultra mega-projects. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude your speech. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Sir, I am concluding in a couple of minutes. It is cheaper because the Central Government gives assistance to them, but at the same time one of the restrictions or one of the norms that the State has to follow is that the distribution in the town-areas should be privatized. How is it possible? The distribution is done either by the KSEB or the Government side. Now, if we want to get some electricity, then all distribution systems would have to be changed. I think that the Government has to reconsider these types of norms too. As regards the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana (RGGVY), it is a very ideal scheme as has been pointed out by other Members. But I want to raise one issue before the House. India has a federal set up. MR. CHAIRMAN: Please conclude your speech. You have already taken more than 10 minutes. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Sir, I am concluding my speech. I just want to place a very special point before the Minister. There is 100 per cent electrification as far as Kerala is concerned and this fact was stated in the House itself in one of his replies, but there may be places in every village or Panchayat like colonies or some houses, etc. that have not been electrified.[r21]  

            When we have to get the Rajiv Gandhi Scheme Fund, we have to follow the franchise system, that is, private agencies have to be introduced.  It may be true in the case of some States but as far as Kerala is concerned or as far as many other States are concerned, where the KSEB or the concerned SEB is the whole agency either in the generation, or transmission or production, they can do all these works for a long time. So, in some areas it is not possible for the private parties to come and put their lines there as their administrative structure is under the KSEB; billing system is there.  So, it is not possible.  We have met the Electricity Minister in Kerala.  Now, it is settled by the NCPT.  At the same time, I want to make it clear not only from the electricity side but also from many other sections.  Special features that exist in many States may differ.  So, there should be flexibility in regard to utilization of the Central fund.  It should be in accordance with the needs of the State and the demands of the State. But we are taking it uniformly in almost all the States.  It becomes really very difficult for the States. … (Interruptions) MR. CHAIRMAN : Thank you very  much.  Please conclude.  You have already taken more than 12 minutes. There are a number of Members to speak. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : Only one more point, which is my last point. MR. CHAIRMAN: There is no end to it.  You would say every point as your last point. SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN : As far as scarcity of electricity is concerned, there is a `power block’ which the Government of India has introduced.  It is a good decision.  I think, the Government has declared it in Orissa and Assam.  I would request that Kerala can also be included in the list because you know that we do not have much resources for the production of electricity. There was a Silent Valley. During the time of Indira Gandhi, it was true that due to environmental issue, we had rejected it.  Then came Patrakadal and Adirappally projects where environmental issues were raised. They are not going to be implemented because of these environmental issue. Considering all these factors, I would request that Kerala should be included in the `power block’. श्री रामजीलाल सुमन ( फ़िरोज़ाबाद ): ºÉ£ÉÉ{ÉÉÊiÉ VÉÉÒ, ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ ºÉÆ¶ÉÉävÉxÉ ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE, 2005 {É® VÉèºÉÉ ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ àÉÆjÉÉÒ VÉÉÒ xÉä +É{ÉxÉä |ÉÉ®ÉÎà£ÉBÉE £ÉÉ­ÉhÉ àÉå BÉEcÉ lÉÉ ÉÊBÉE <ºÉBÉEÉ àÉBÉEºÉn ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ FÉäjÉ BÉEÉä ÉÊ´ÉkÉÉÒªÉ °ô{É ºÉä ãÉÉ£É|Én ¤ÉxÉÉxÉÉ, ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ ¶ÉÖãBÉEÉå BÉEÉä ªÉÖÉÎBÉDiÉªÉÖBÉDiÉ ¤ÉxÉÉxÉÉ iÉlÉÉ ÉÊ´É¶Éä­É °ô{É ºÉä ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ BÉEÉÒ SÉÉä®ÉÒ VÉÉä ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ FÉäjÉ BÉEÉ ABÉE +ÉÉÊ£É¶ÉÉ{É ¤ÉxÉ MÉªÉÉÒ cè, =ºÉä ®ÉäBÉExÉä BÉEä àÉBÉEºÉn ºÉä ãÉÉªÉÉ MÉªÉÉ cè* <ºÉBÉEä ÉÊãÉA ABÉE xªÉÉªÉÉãÉªÉ BÉEÉÒ ºlÉÉ{ÉxÉÉ +ÉÉè® {ÉÖÉÊãÉºÉ BÉEÉä VªÉÉnÉ iÉÉBÉEiÉ näxÉä BÉEÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ BÉEcÉÒ MÉªÉÉÒ cè* 

 सभापति महोदय, हमारे देश का जो उपभोक्ता है उसको और देशों की तुलना में ज्यादा पैसा बिजली का अदा करना पड़ता है। जहां तक दंड के प्रावधान का सवाल है, मैं एक राजनैतिक कार्यकर्ता होने के नाते बहुत विनम्रता से निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि यह जो विद्युत की चोरी होती है, इसमें अकेला उपभोक्ता शामिल नहीं होता है, अगर विद्युत विभाग के लोग उसको प्रोत्साहित न करें, उसमें शामिल न हों, तो मैं नहीं समझता कि कोई उपभोक्ता चोरी कर सकता है। इसलिए जब एक ओर आप उपभोक्ता के ऊपर दंडात्मक कार्रवाई करने की बात करते हैं तो दूसरी ओर आवश्यक है कि जो प्रशासनिक अधिकारी हैं उनके ऊपर भी ज्यादा सख्त कार्रवाई होनी चाहिए, जिससे विद्युत की चोरी का सिलसिला रुके। अगर आप केवल उपभोक्ता तक सीमित रहेंगे, तब तक यह बात बनेगी नहीं। नीचे से लेकर ऊपर तक सब लोग इसमें शामिल हैं और उनके खिलाफ प्रभावी कार्रवाई करने की आवश्यकता है। बिजली चोरी का एक कारण यह भी है कि हिंदुस्तान में उपभोक्ता की जितनी बिजली चाहिए, उतनी बिजली उसको नहीं मिलती है। इसलिए मजबूरी में भी चोरी करने के लिए वह बाध्य हो जाता है। इसलिए आवश्यकता इस बात की है कि उपभोक्ता को विद्युत की जितनी आवश्यकता है उतनी आपूर्ति उसको हो। जहां तक कीमतों का सवाल है, तो दुनिया में सबसे ज्यादा बिजली की दरें हिंदुस्तान में हैं। भारत में यह दर २६.१३ सेंट व्यापारिक उपयोग में है जबकि घरेलू उपयोग में १४.७७ सेंट है। अमरीका में ५.०० सेंट व्यापारिक उपयोग में और घरेलू उपयोग में ९.६० सेंट है।[r22]  

चीन में व्यापारिक उद्योग में कीमत ५.०० सेंट और घरेलू उद्योग में ६.९० सेंट है। इंग्लैंड में व्यापारिक उद्योग में कीमत १०.०० सेंट और घरेलू उपयोग में ११.९४ सेंट है। फ्रांस में व्यापारिक उद्योग में ४.८० सेंट और घरेलू उद्योग में १३.६० सेंट है। मेरे कहने का मतलब यह है कि और देशों की तुलना में हिंदुस्तान में विद्युत की दरें बहुत ज्यादा हैं, इस संदर्भ में भी मंत्री जी को ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। महोदय, देश में बिजली की कमी है और १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना के प्रारंभ होने से ही बिजली की कमी बढ़ती जा रही है। इस कमी को पूरा करने की आवश्यकता है। मैं निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि वर्ष २००२-०३ में पीक आवर्स में १२.२ परसेंट कमी थी और औसत कमी ८.८ परसेंट थी। वर्ष २००३-०४ में पीक आवर्स में ११.२ परसेंट कमी थी और औसत कमी ७.१ परसेंट थी। वर्ष २००४-०५ में पीक आवर्स में कमी ११.७ परसेंट और औसत कमी ७.३ परसेंट थी। वर्ष २००५-०६ में पीक आवर्स में १२.३ परसेंट कमी थी और औसत कमी ८.४ परसेंट थी। वर्ष २००६-०७ में पीक आवर्स में १३.८ परसेंट कमी थी और औसत कमी ९.६ परसेंट थी। वर्ष २००७ से यह कमी १४.०० पसेंट है। छोटे बिजली उपभोक्ता पूरी तरह से सरकारी बिजली पर आश्रित होते हैं। बड़े उपभोक्ता अपने उपयोग के लिए बिजली पैदा कर लेते हैं, इसलिए आवश्यकता है कि छोटे उपभोक्ताओं के हितों की रक्षा की जाए। मैं आपके माध्यम से यह भी निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि जनवरी और मार्च, २००४ में बिजली की औसत कीमत २.१५ रुपए प्रति यूनिट थी, जो सितम्बर २००६ में बढ़ कर ५.७५ रुपए प्रति यूनिट हो गई। दिल्ली, हरियाणा और उत्तर प्रदेश में ७ रुपए प्रति यूनिट बिजली की कीमत है। १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में ५७ हजार मेगावाट अतरिक्त बिजली की आवश्यकता आंकी गई थी, लेकिन सिर्फ १७ हजार मेगावाट बिजली पैदा की गई। जितनी बिजली पैदा करने का हम लक्ष्य रखते हैं, उसके सापेक्ष हम बिजली का उत्पादन नहीं कर पाते हैं। आज देश में १,८८,००० मेगावाट बिजली उत्पादन की क्षमता है, परंतु हमारे यहां केवल ७४ प्रतिशत ही पैदा होती है। बिजली क्षेत्र की हमेशा उपेक्षा ही हुई है। आठवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में निर्धारित लक्ष्य का सिर्फ ५४ प्रतिशत ही हम प्राप्त कर सके। नौवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में निर्धारित लक्ष्य का हम ४७ प्रतिशत प्राप्त कर सके। कमोवेश यही स्थिति दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में भी है। पहले लक्ष्य ४१ हजार मेगावाट लक्ष्य था, लेकिन इस सरकार ने बीच में जो समीक्षा की, उसमें लक्ष्य ३०६४१ मेगावाट रखा गया, लेकिन वह लक्ष्य भी प्राप्त नहीं किया जा सका। महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि ५७२७ मेगावाट की छोटी परियोजनाएं थीं, जिन्हें मार्च २००७ तक पूरा होना था, लेकिन वे परियोजनाएं आज तक पूरी नहीं हुईं। व्यापारिक बिजली की हमारे देश में औसत हानि आज भी ३३ फीसदी है। देश के वभिन्न हिस्सों में यह औसत १८ फीसदी से लेकर ६२ फीसदी तक है। मैं निवेदन करना चाहूंगा कि इन खामियों को दूर करने की भी हमें कोशिश करनी चाहिए, क्योंकि दुनिया के अन्य देशों में बिजली हानि का औसत ६ या ७ प्रतिशत है। हमारे देश में बहुत बड़े पैमाने पर बिजली की हानि होती है। इस हानि को दुरुस्त किए जाने की आवश्यकता है। नेफ्था से जो बिजली का उत्पादन हो रहा है, उसकी वर्तमान उत्पादन लागत ७.२० रुपए प्रति यूनिट है और हमने निश्चित किया है कि ५.७५ रुपए प्रति यूनिट उपभोक्ता से लेंगे। इसलिए नेफ्था के अंतर्गत जिस बिजली का हम उत्पादन कर रहे हैं, वह किसी कीमत पर ठीक नहीं है। अभी दिल्ली सरकार ने उच्च न्यायालय में एक एफिडेविट दिया है, जिसमें कहा गया है कि आम उपभोक्ता को बिजली उपलब्ध कराना हमारा कर्तव्य नहीं है।[R23]  

 इसका मतलब यह हुआ कि सरकार की कोई जिम्मेदारी नहीं है। मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि सरकार का रवैया बिल्कुल गैरजिम्मेदाराना है। ५-६ बड़े शहरों को छोड़ कर बिजली की सप्लाई सरकारी क्षेत्र कर रहा है। सरकार की पूरे देश में बिजली पहुंचाने की जिम्मेदारी है और मैं समझता हूं क बिजली का मामला बहुत गम्भीर है। अत: इस पर ज्यादा ध्यान देने की आवश्यकता है। 16.16 hrs.                              (Shri Varkala Radhakrishnan in the Chair) 

 हम जो लक्ष्य निर्धारित करते हैं उसके मुताबिक हमें वहां तक पहुंचने का प्रयास करना चाहिए। अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय जगत में जो बिजली के दाम हैं, उनके मुताबिक हमें सुनिश्चित करना चाहिए कि उपभोक्ताओं के ऊपर ज्यादा मार न पड़े। अगर मंत्री जी सही मायने में बिजली की चोरी को रोकना चाहते हैं तो सबसे पहले उनको विभाग के आला अफसरों से शुरुआत करनी पड़ेगी तभी एक मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव पड़ेगा जिससे लोग बिजली की चोरी करने से कतराएंगे। SHRI SURESH PRABHAKAR PRABHU ( RAJAPUR ): Sir, this Bill seeks to amend the Electricity Act, 2003 , which I had the good fortune of introducing in the Parliament as the Minister of Power in the previous Shri Vajpayee Government. This Bill was drafted with a lot of consultations, deliberations and thoughts to address some of the crucial problems that the country is facing in the power sector.  Of course, any law that is passed by the Parliament can always be reviewed, changed and amended.  If we can amend the Constitution, we can also amend the law.  When the UPA Government came to power it had said in its National Common Minimum Programme that the Electricity Act, 2003 is going to be reviewed.  My good friend Shri K.S. Rao was saying that we need private participation in power sector. The Act was basically designed, among other things, to address that concern as well.  When the Government said that it was going to review that, there was a lot of nervousness in the power sector thinking that the amendment would mean that the Government would be going to roll back some of the very progressive provisions in the law. First of all, we would like to be assured by the hon. Minister that now we can say that the review, as was envisaged under the UPA’s Common Minimum Programme, is complete.  The uncertainty that was always hanging in the minds of the investors should disappear and we should say, 'yes, the review is complete and the Act, as amended by the Parliament - when the Parliament will amend - is the finality of the Electricity Act, 2003 ’. This is something which I think we should finally tell the country. There are some provisions in the Electricity law to which there are four or five major proposed amendments. One deals with rural electrification. It is true that Section 6 of the Electricity Act, 2003 talks about the appropriate Government which will actually be responsible for rural electrification. If you go by the spirit of it, the Central Government has always been supporting steps to do rural electrification through budgetary provisions and through instruments like Rural Electrification Corporation. In fact, I recall as a Minister. The Chief Ministers were constantly called for meeting the State Chief Ministers encouraging them to avail more resources from the Central Government and do electrification. It is good. If you are now going to provide resources, and maybe provide grants if not even loans to the States to go for rural electrification, it is a good thing. While doing that you must be clear about a few things. Today, the figures for peak level shortage and energy shortage are astonishing and we are all concerned about it. Therefore, if you provide more electricity, give more electricity to more consumers, it would only mean that from the limited electricity that is available to us, which is causing this type of shortage because of the mis-match of demand and supply, we are providing more electricity to the consumers and that may result into more shortages. This is more important and you should take care of it. In the process of doing that if more number of people are going to draw electricity from the available scarce resources, it should not even affect the quality of electricity.[R24]  

We have seen in India, in addition to availability, the quality of electricity is a very fundamental issue because normally it should be 49.99 HTZ. As a result of which the consumers can be assured that this is the quality he is going to get and therefore he can run his electrical gadgets and electrical systems on that frequency. But today, if you provide more electricity to consumers without augmenting the capacity -- if you can do that simultaneously, it is very good -- then the quality of electricity will really suffer.  I would request the Minister to take note of it. India probably is the only country in the world which has got voltage stabilizers at the consumers’ end for providing stability to voltage.  Providing stability to the grid is the responsibility of the grid supplier and the manager of the grid.  So, it is an additional cost that we are putting on the consumers.  But this is not a problem which Mr. Shinde has created.  This problem has come up over a period of time.  My concern is that when we are doing the electrification of this magnitude, we should be very clear that quality of the electricity should not suffer and in the process we should not put more burden on the already over-burdened infrastructure. The other important issue is reliability because the fundamental foundation of the Electricity Act is on three things, namely, quality, reliability and affordability. So, reliability is also an important thing because now in several States including the home State of the hon. Minister as well as mine, we are not getting electricity for 18 hours. Sometimes when the load shedding cycle changes, it extends to more than 24 hours because if it changes then another cycle would start which can really affect the supply.  So reliability is an important issue and affordability is the most important issue.  It is because in the case of Enron, which has now become Ratnagiri Power Company, at that particular time, when the hon. Minister was the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, he wanted to provide electricity but because of the high cost of electricity that was generated from Enron, the Maharashtra Electricity Board could not buy that electricity.  So, affordability of electricity is also one of the important considerations.  Therefore, I think while framing the policy, we should be very clear about it.   Now, this Bill is trying to amend Section 6 of the Electricity Act, 2003.  While welcoming that, I would like to caution the Minister that we should definitely take into consideration these three important aspects. The other issue relates to cross-subsidization.  In my opinion, this issue was deliberated upon for a long time.  So, let us look at the historical situation.  The industry is actually paying for all others. They are actually paying more. The agriculture is not paying at all or somebody else maybe paying less.  But the situation that we thought was that in India we definitely need subsidy because electricity cannot be purchased by everybody at market price. So, we definitely need subsidy. There is no question about it. The Indian poor cannot afford to buy electricity and then the provision of electricity is directly related to removal of poverty and improving  the quality of the living standard of the people.  Therefore, electricity is important.  But how should we provide subsidy?  In fact, in the Electricity Act , there is a specific provision to give subsidy which was not there in the earlier Act.   We deliberately provided it and in that form.  We said that we must give subsidy but the subsidy must be given by the State Governments which want to give subsidy to the utility by a transfer amount which is equivalent to the difference between the tariff that is fixed by the regulator and the amount of subsidy which you want to give.  So, it is the most transparent way of giving subsidy.  As a result of which, poor can get power at subsidized rates and at the same time the distortion that goes into the system will disappear.  Today, by making an amendment like this, what are we saying?  We are saying that the same regime of cross-subsidization which was existing before is going to come back.  So, the consumer will not get it because we have always seen that the industry which is supposed to pay higher charges for electricity because of cross-subsidization will go for captive generation because the cost is high. So, you will lose good industrial consumers in the process and the ability of the industry to cross-subsidize will also go down.  So, who will suffer?  Again, the poor will suffer.  The subsidy will not reach the target group and therefore the distortion will again come back.  So my request is that this type of provision will not be really helping the cause for which we are trying to introduce this amendment. If the idea is to help the poor you can do it as it has been provided in the Electricity Act by transfer of subsidy amount from the State Governments to the State Electricity Boards or whoever is the utility in a transparent and in a very clear manner.[R25]  

            This is an important thing which we are now trying to bring in through cross-subsidy. But my personal request would be to look at this issue more closely because this is something which could again create some problems. As you would know, today the situation is that there are not many workers who work in the manufacturing sector because we want more blue collared workers to be created and this is because the manufacturing sector accounts for only 23 per cent of the GDP. Unless we have manufacturing sector account for around 53 per cent of GDP, as is the case in China, we would not be able to call ourselves as a new world power. We cannot call ourselves a world power only by prosperous service sector which accounts for more than 60 per cent of our GDP. We want more in the manufacturing sector. If we have more manufacturing, then we have to also see that manufacturing cannot survive or thrive unless the costs that goes into manufacturing are at international level because it is now a globalised world. A worker who works in Kolkata, or in Mumbai or in Hyderabad has to compete with a product that is manufactured with the producers in the USA or in China or at some other place. Input cost is important. If the manufacturing cost is going up, then we would lose the competitiveness that India has in the manufacturing sector. Sir, the second point in regard to this amendment relates to theft. This is welcome. We have to arrest power theft. It is because when I was the Power Minister we had calculated the amount of money that is involved in theft and it was calculated to be Rs. 20,000 crore every year. That was a very conservative estimate. I do not know as to what is the amount today. We are losing around Rs. 20,000 crore every year as a country by way of theft of power. By losing this amount of money, this sector cannot be commercially viable and because it is not commercially viable, capacity addition is not possible. These are related to one another. It is good that now it is being sought to treated as a cognizable offence. It is also required. Along with that, my request to the Government would be to look at some two to three other parallel measures that are required. The first is the managerial measure. Theft is an issue which is related to lack of accountability at a level at which the power is supplied to the consumer. If the Government could make a provision whereby any distribution transformer that becomes a profit centre and also a cost centre in which we can actually fix the responsibility, then that would be good. Suppose, if the power that has come into the distribution transformer to the extent to which it is supplied to the consumer, if we can actually identify that and say that this is what has come and you must have to account for it, then the person who runs the distribution transformer would be made accountable and theft will be greatly reduced. This is something which the Government must do. There is a parallel to this.    In the telecommunication sector theft has gone down because of certain measures of this type. The second measure is technological. MR. CHAIRMAN : You may conclude now because there are a number of speakers to speak on this Bill. … (Interruptions) SHRI SURESH PRABHAKAR PRABHU : There used to be one Shri Tata Rao from Hyderabad who was one of the most renowned and celebrated engineer in the power sector. He used to always say that if you have a high tension distribution and transmission network, the amount of theft that are carried out can be greatly reduced. It is a technological solution which we are trying to use wherever possible. It is not possible everywhere. But the Government may have to use such solutions along with the type of fixing of responsibility that I was talking about. Take for example the agriculture sector. Now if the Government could think of providing feeders for supply of power only to the agricultural users, then that itself will help. Some States are doing it. We are trying to do it under the Accelerated Power Reforms Development Programme which the Government had launched and we want to go ahead with that. This is something along with theft control on the lines suggested and what the Government should try to do and also make sure that these parallel measures are taken along with the legal provisions. Those are all welcome. But without these things we would not be able to achieve any success, because by having only the law what we would end up in is having hundreds and thousands of people being in jail for theft of electricity and the police would have no other job to do than this. Therefore, the Government must also introduce some other provisions that are required. Sir, the other provision talks about amendment to Section 9 of the Electricity Act for captive generation. In fact, the Central Government has always been saying that they have, by law, delicenced captive generation. Anybody can now put up a captive power plant. Unfortunately some of the States are not supplying electricity to the consumers and also at the same time not allowing anybody else to create more capacity. It is a dog in the manger policy that they are following – neither are they themselves doing something, nor are they allowing others to do it.  It is a serious issue. The Government is bringing about this amendment, I think, in pursuance of the order of the Supreme Court, but my request would be that the Government, if required, may bring in even more stringent amendments whereby the States should not be allowed to flout the spirit of this amendment. [R26]  

Otherwise, [MSOffice27] it will be really counterproductive.  We have done this very deliberately.   In fact, in India, all generation is delicensed, except hydro, in certain cases. Otherwise, generation is delicensed. Captive capacity is welcome because we have huge power shortage but the State Governments have started charging excise duty which is something highly objectionable.  I would therefore, request the Minister to make sure that he will look into it. My last point is about open access.  In fact, this is a very important issue.  In telecom, open access has brought down tariffs and has improved the quality and it is a prerequisite for competition.  In this case, I have said in the Electricity Act that open access will be for more than one megawatt to begin with as it was done in UK also. It was done very deliberately.  I think we should try to find out how soon we can introduce open access.  I would request that all the Central Government funding to the States should be linked to this now.  If you can link it to this and  if you can make sure that the States will have more and more open access, probably, this will result into more capacity to be created at the generation end. The generator should not only ask for a PPA with the State Electricity Board but he should also try to sell electricity directly to the consumer whereby there will be more competition, more capacity will be created and more bankability for the projects can be established.   If you want all this, then you must introduce open access in a very big way and I would request you to do that also. SHRI BRAHMANANDA PANDA ( JAGATSINGHPUR ):  Sir,  I extend my hearty thanks for giving me an opportunity to participate in the debate on Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005. Sir, as you know, electricity has become  one of the necessities of man and electricity has achieved thunderous results in the economics of  modern life.   You know that the dream to illuminate rural India has been reflected in this Bill. The main object of this Bill is to electrify rural India and take power to the common people of the country. In this context, I would like to highlight before the hon. Minister some important points. He is well aware that Orissa is a surplus State so far as production of electricity is concerned.  The reformative measure which you have adopted is also unique as regards the achievement of the entire country till today.  But this State has been discriminated against as regards to financial assistance. I would like to highlight a few points for your kind appreciation. I want to know whether safeguards that have been provided in the Bill to ensure availability of cheap, environment friendly and good quality of power to the common people of the country.  This is the most important aspect.   An assurance was given that by 2009, all villages will be electrified under Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Vidyutkaran Yojana.  Now, we are going to achieve it in 2012.  We may presume that by 2012 we can achieve our goal.  But unless some real approach is given to this Bill practically, the dream to illuminate rural India cannot be fulfilled.   My earnest request in this regard is that the country can ill afford  leakages and wastages of energy in the system to the extent of Rs. 28,000 crores a year.  How to overcome such an alarming situation?  The amendment which has been reflected in section 151 relates to individual customers.  I want to know the measures provided in this Bill to prevent pilferages and wastage of electricity by big industrial units. This is very important for[MSOffice28]  all of us. Unless it is checked, our dream will remain a dream.  Even after sixty years of Independence the common man, especially those who are in the remote areas, which are dominated by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, have not seen electricity.  It has remained a dream for them till today. So, in this context, I would like to highlight the other aspect, that is whether we can add capacity and at the same time address the issue of distribution reforms.  This alone can make it commercially viable, improve quality, stop theft and improve revenue.  This will also be an incentive to add capacity. The other aspect is the transmission loss, which at present is forty per cent in our country. Unless it is reduced to ten or fifteen per cent, our dream to electrify rural India will not come true.  The Bill, no doubt, is a good one to achieve our goal.  But unless the provisions of the Bill are implemented in their true spirit, we may be far away from fulfilling our objective, though we shout and cry in this august House that this Bill is for aam admi, for the poor people, for the downtrodden, for the adivasis and for the Scheduled Castes.  Adivasis, Scheduled Castes and dalits are far away from enjoying the fruits of these nice programmes. Seventy-five per cent of the energy is being consumed by industrial units.  Those industrial units collude with the officials of the Electricity Department, like inspectors and meter readers.  Tampering with the meters has become the order of the day in order to deceive the Electricity Department. There must be a mechanism to monitor the entire system, failing which, in my humble opinion, the dream to eliminate darkness in rural India will remain a dream. That apart, I would like to further highlight before your honour, Mr. Chairman, that cross subsidy should continue.  Subsidies must be available to the poorest in the country.  It should not be enjoyed by the privileged ones, like the owners of industrial units, etc., which has become common in the country. I would like to further state that our State adopted electricity reforms in the distribution system of the entire State, which was handled by the State-owned Utility, Grid Corporation of Orissa from 1996 to 1999.  They were entirely privatized in the year 1999 through disinvesting of 51 per cent of the shares in favour of private sector investors.  This pro-active action of the State Government was to make it more efficient through private sector participation. The hon. Minister of Energy is aware that we have got a very dynamic Chief Minister.  The main objective of the hon. Chief Minister Shri Naveen Patnaik is to see that every village of the State is electrified. His aim is that the poor and the common men should get the benefits of the modern India.  That is why he introduced Gopa Bandhu Grameena Yojana. Shri Gopa Bandhu was a social reformer and was the architect of modern India.[MSOffice29]  

Sir, I would conclude within a few minutes. The Ministry of Power and the Ministry of Finance have declined to sanction the grant on the ground that the distribution companies in Orissa are private Companies and not State owned. In fact, the Distcoms are in joint venture as the GRIDCO holds 49 per cent and the Private Sector Investor holds 51 per cent with management control. Orissa State Government has submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Power in June, 2005 in the prescribed format claiming incentive to the tune of Rs. 264.94 crore for the year 2003-04.  This is 50 per cent of the actual loss reduction achieved by the Utilities with 2000-01 as the base year based on loss reduction achieved by GRIDCO, a State owned Utility and the four distribution licensees engaged in the retail supply of electricity in the State. Such an approach by both the Ministries amounts to penalizing the State Government for its pioneering effort in reforming the power sector. Mr. Chairman, Sir ours is a surplus State so far as energy is concerned.  We suffer from environment due to different diseases and environment is being polluted.  As you know, Talcher where thermal power is being produced, the heat-wave is so high that even the birds are falling down from the trees. It is due to the installation of thermal power plant in those areas.   If we contribute a lot for the upliftment of the modern India, we equally expect more support from the Central Government.  Such an approach by both the Ministries amounts to penalizing the State Government for its pioneering effort in reforming the power sector and also defeats the very objective of the Orissa Electricity Reform Act 1995 and the Electricity Act 2003 which intends to promote competition in the electricity industry through private sector participation in the power sector. Sir with regard to the institution of special court, there must be some stipulation to conclude the trial within a specific period failing which cases are being filed and the trials are being continued for years together.  As a Senior Advocate of Orrissa High Court, I have got my own experience.  I find that cases are pending for years together and there is no able prosecution from the side of the State to prosecute the case properly.  So, a time-bound period must be fixed.  That apart, an independent investigating agency should undertake the investigation of those cases and how these big industrial units will come under the purview of this Act is also most important.  Unless that is looked into, the very purpose of amendment of this Act may be frustrated. Sir, as you know, my Party is Biju Janata Dal which is named after Biju Patnaik, a great social reformer and his contribution is also immense for the social upliftment of modern India.    I represent the holy State of Lord Jagannath which is spreading real light to the common people of the country and my State should be given equal priority in the field of development of electricity. Sir, with these few words, I extend my hearty thanks to you. [a30]  

  
 

 

SHRI SURAVARAM SUDHAKAR REDDY ( NALGONDA ): Sir,  I would like to thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to speak on this Bill. At the very outset, I fell that the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act are good and necessary. I welcome the amendments. While supporting the amendments, I would like to bring a few points to the notice of the hon. Minister.  The point is that cross-subsidies cannot be eliminated. Of course, we all agree to that. But, however, in the objectives, it is said that it will be reduced in a  phased manner. It will take some time to reduce it. I think it is also a statement that is to be rectified. It has to be continued for quite some time in future also. I believe it is linked with the economy of our country. Without the alleviation of poverty in our country, you cannot totally eliminate the cross-subsidies if you want to supply power to all the needy people in our country. In this connection, I would like to say that the entire power reforms are to be reviewed once again. The power reforms that were brought  forward in our country were, of course, to bring out the State Electricity Boards from a crisis. It is true that many State Electricity Boards were in the red. But the very purpose of the reforms is under globalization. Electricity and power supply is commercialized. I do not say that power should be supplied in this country free of cost. But there is a section of the people in this country who are very much below the poverty-line and there is a responsibility of the Government that they should also be given power with subsidy. One of the most important points in this Amendment Bill is, for the rural electrification, we need more responsibility from both the State and the Central Governments. A big subsidy is also announced. It is a very good intention. I welcome it. But I would like to ask one question. While power supply is getting costlier and costlier, what is the use of supplying electricity to the remote areas where the people cannot afford to pay the electricity bills? You are trying to supply electricity to the tribals, the dalits who are in the remote corners of this country. I am coming from the State of Andhra Pradesh where several dalitwadas, where the Scheduled Caste people are living now, are living in dark conditions without power. For months and months, they are unable to pay electricity bills because the power tariffs have gone up very high. In the last few years, privatization of electricity generation is taking place. This privatization is costing the power Boards. I would like to say that maybe, it is shown with innocence that competition is necessary, more efficiency is to be brought into the Electricity Boards and all that. I would like to ask this question. What is the experience of Dabhol Project in Maharashtra? Mr. Minister, you wanted to bring out the Maharashtra Electricity Board from a serious crisis. Because of the Dabhol Project, the Maharashtra State Electricity Board has gone  into deeper crisis further and further. Everybody knows that they cheated the entire nation. Instead of helping them, whatever the help that is given to the Dabhol Project, if that help, financially, had been given to the Maharashtra State Electricity Board, I think they would have come out of the crisis. Instead of trying to help a private electricity company which was a cheater at the international level, instead of trying to help such organizations, we should have helped our own State Electricity Boards. There is a feeling that privatization or private-public joint venture in electricity is going to help faster generation and all that.[R31]  

            But we have a feeling that in the last few years step-motherly attitude is taken by the Government financial organizations towards State-owned generation companies. The same type of facilities like bank guarantees and other financial help that are given to private companies are not being given to the State-owned electricity generation companies. This attitude should change. Now, even after bringing Electricity Regulatory Commissions, I do not think the situation has improved. There is a crisis in the power sector now. I would like to ask whether there is any improvement in the power situation in Delhi after privatisation. The Government is giving subsidy of thousands of crores to them and still they are demanding more subsidies. There is no use of this subsidy. In fact, there is a big loss to the Government and bigger loss to the people. When the Electricity Regulatory Commissions were brought, it was looking as if they were being given more autonomy and they were taking proper decisions and all that. In several States, the Electricity Regulatory Commissions are giving licences without proper basis. In Andhra Pradesh, we argued against licences being given to private companies in power sector without adequate guarantee of gas supply. I myself appealed against this, but they gave permission, but there is no gas supply for them now. They are demanding that either fixed charges are to be paid or they would be given naphtha, as the hon. Minister has stated while replying to questions the other day. But naphtha is very costly and naturally all this additional expenditure is to be borne by the consumers. Sir, I believe that electricity reforms in our country are a necessary, but these reforms which have been brought are not properly used for our country at this juncture. I think the entire policy is to be reviewed. When these amendments are brought, I appeal to the hon. Minister to take these experiences into consideration and review the National Electricity Policy. A new policy should come and electricity should not be seen only from the commercial angle. We have a responsibility towards the 30 per cent of the population who are living below the poverty line. They should be supplied with drinking water, they should be supplied with electricity and everything should not be privatized. The new reforms in the power sector and the new National Electricity Policy should take care of these things. SHRI VIJAYENDRA PAL SINGH ( BHILWARA ): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I rise to speak on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on the 23rd of December, 2005 and was referred to the Standing Committee. The Standing Committee, in their wisdom, discussed the Bill in detail and presented a Report to the House in May, 2006. I hope the Power Minister is not new to the Power Ministry any more, but when the Report of the Standing Committee was presented, he was not the Minister of Power. But the Power Ministry has taken one year to bring the Bill for passing in the Lok Sabha.[R32]  

[r33] What I am trying to really say is see the importance given to this Amendment Bill.  My predecessor has very rightly said that a review is required of the Act of 2003 and I will stress that point very vividly because what happened in 2003 was that a very good Act came about and the ‘Ambedkar’ of that Bill was no other than Shri Rangarajan Kumarmangalam and Shri Suresh Prabhu followed it up. But after four years, when we look at it, what are the reasons? Have we done any assessment?  What really Shri Suresh Prabhu was talking about is the fact that open access should have been really implemented.  Has it been implemented at the State level?  Have other provisions really been implemented? If we see the results, then we can say that we are lagging behind. Now, the target for the Ninth Five Year Plan was something like 41,000 MW and actually we were not be able to achieve more than 8,500 something MW. In the Tenth Plan, it was 41,000 MW and we were not able to achieve more than 19,000 MW.  In the Eleventh Plan, we are saying that we will not be really achieve the target again and the ultra mega power projects was a dream that we will have ultra mega power projects and that too ten of them.  That was announced by the hon. Prime Minister. But what has really happened?  We have knowledge that these will not be coming in the Eleventh Five Year Plan.  If that is all happening then the assessment of the Electricity Act 2003 is a necessity and that is what I am stressing, like my predecessor had done. May I also say that there were 126 recommendations of the Standing Committee?  That was the time when the UPA Government came into formation.  They had said that we will review this and I feel a review is necessary to find out if there are any faults, if there is anything more to be done. I can point out the tariff.  We had the new clause in the Electricity Act 2003 where we said that we will have trading done by the companies.  Now, the States have formed their own trading companies and the States are selling that electricity at Rs.6 per unit.   Now, if the States start doing trading themselves, then where is the regulation?  What are the CERC and the SERC doing? The trading was introduced in this Electricity Act 2003 for the simple thing that we must usher in a competition so that prices come down. But the trading has been taken in a different light and prices are going up.  If that is what is going on, then, assessment is very necessary. Let me also talk about the availability based tariff.  There are so much litigations going on between the NTPC and the CERC.  All those are in the High Courts and the Supreme Court.  Does that not need a review of the Electricity Act 2003? One of the things in the Electricity Act 2003 was that we would get private participation.  What is the private participation really that has come about?  If we look at the original target of the Centre, it is 22,000 MW.  The States’ target is 11,157 MW and the private target is 7,121 MW only.  If that is going to be the state of affairs, if we thought that private participation will really come in from the Electricity Act 2003 and also because of the open access, which Shri Suresh Prabhu was talking about, then that is really not taken up.   That is what the point is.[r34]  
 

 17.00 hrs. 

Why do not you do a reassessment of the whole thing?  What new amendments are required, please usher them in.  These three innocuous – if I can say – amendments are important in their own right but there are more important amendments which are required. The UPA Government has announced a very ambitious scheme and that is the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana.  Let us say that one of the reasons that the amendment has come about in this Bill – proposed in the Section 6 – is that the onus is not just on the State Government but also on the Central Government to jointly endeavour and provide access to the villages.  It is a fact that after 60 years of independence, there are hundreds and thousands of villages which are still not electrified.  This very ambitions plan was launched.  We thought that you would be able to provide the funds.  What is the status of this scheme? 17 .01 hrs.                              (Shrimati Krishna Tirath in the Chair) 

 You have provided only Rs. 3000 crore.  Now you have provided another Rs. 4,500 crore.  In fact, it is only Rs. 8,500 crore, while the requirement is in hundreds and thousands of lakhs of crores of rupees.    You have not even done an assessment of how many villages are there; how many hamlets are there.  If the assessment had been done, they would have gone to two lakh villages including the hamlets.  But you have said that there are only 1,16,000 villages.  In the 1,16,000 villages, what have you really achieved?  You have achieved only 18,000 villages in the two years.  If that is done, I do not know when you will be able to really complete the electrification of the villages.  Where is the electricity when you cannot meet the targets? Madam, let me also come to another point.  We talk about cross subsidy.  I support this because in the Electricity Act 2003 it was said that there should be total elimination of the cross subsidy.  The total elimination of the crossed subsidy should not be there; it should be reduced.  I support this amendment very much. The other thing which is very important is this.  Why is it that we have not been able to import the super critical technology? We are dependent only on BHEL. They have their limitation.  I know BHEL is doing a very good job. Nobody denies that.  But, we can have international bidding and get more technology.  It is because when you say BHEL has a limitation, they cannot supply more than that, and that is one of the limitations of not meeting the generation targets in the Tenth and Eleventh Five Year Plans, then why do we not import that, why do we not have international bidding? The other thing is regarding the States.  You have not been able to really encourage the States and promote them to put up their own generating power plants.  NTPC is doing a great job; NHPC is doing a great job, but what is required is this. At the State level, you have also started the Ultra Mega Power Projects.  Those are not going to come for another six years.  That means nothing is going to come in the Eleventh Five Year Plan.  Why cannot we have more of them in the States and for that why do you not give the States also the same concessions that are being given to the Ultra Mega Power Projects?  Also the same should be given to the private projects that are coming up.  Then only we will be able to meet the demand. There is shortage and if we have to have a GDP growth of more than 9.2 per cent in the country – because it goes in line with the requirement – electricity growth should be along with 9.2 per cent GDP gr[r35] owth. For that, you will have to do a lot of things.  One of the most important things is that you have to re-assess as to why the Electricity Act, 2003 is not able to give us the impetus and give us all the growth that was required. SHRI S.K. KHARVENTHAN ( PALANI ): Madam Chairman, first of all, I am thankful to the Chair for giving me this opportunity to participate in the discussion on Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005. I would like to congratulate and thank the hon. Minister of Power, Shri Shinde ji for the introduction of this piece of legislation to further amend the Electricity Act, 2003 as per the commitment made by UPA in the National Common Minimum Programme. Ours is an age of scientific inventions which have made life easy and comfortable.  The most useful of all inventions is electricity. Electricity is one of the wonders and blessings of Science. When Lenin came to power in Russa after the success of the Revolution in October 1917, his message to his people was: “The Revolution means socialism and electricity.  If a country has capitalism and electricity, its people will be happier, more prosperous and more advanced than the people of a country which has socialism but no electricity.”  

            Madam, the Indian Electricity Act was promulgated in the year 1903, it was then amended in 1910 and lately in 1959.  The Rules thereunder were first framed in 1937 and then in 1956. The Indian Electricity Supply Act was promulgated in 1948 for the purpose of providing rationalization of the production of electricity, and generally for taking measures conducive to the development of electricity in this country.  It was slightly amended in 1959. Electricity Laws (Amendment) Act, 1988 came into force on 30th December, 1998.  There had been drastic amendments in the Electricity Act, 1910 and the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 .  The object of these amendments is to provide for transmission as a distinct activity under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 .  The law relating to generation, transmission, distribution, trading and use of electricity is enunciated in the Electricity Act, 2003 . The present amendment provisions are based on the Electricity Act, 2003 . The present Bill paves way to amend Section 6 , Section 38 and other Sections. Section 6 of the Electricity Act, 2003 provides that the appropriate Government shall endeavour to supply electricity to all areas including villages and hamlets.  As per this provision, rural electrification is under the purpose of the State Government.  The present amendment in Section 6 provides that the concerned State Governments and the Central Government shall jointly endeavour to provide access to electricity to all areas including villages and hamlets through rural electricity infrastructure and electrification of households. As per Census 2001, only 44 per cent of the rural households have access to electricity infrastructure.  Improvement of rural electricity infrastructure is essential to empower rural India.  For the improvement of this, our UPA Government, under the leadership of Madam Sonia ji, implemented the Rajiv Gandhi Vidyutikaran Yojana in April 2005 for providing access to electricity to all rural households over a period of four years. It has been estimated that this Scheme would have a subsidy component of Rs. 14,5 70 crore with an outlay of Rs. 16,255 crore funded from the Consolidated Fund of India in two phases.  Phase I started from the year 2005-06 with sanction of Rs. 5,000 crore.[R36]  

            The Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) is the nodal agency for the programme.  Under the new scheme, till 9th February, 2007, 28,241 villages have been electrified, and 5,14,141 connections to below poverty line (BPL) households have been released.  The target for the year 2007-08 is for electrification of 40,000 unelectrified villages and offering electricity connection to around 40 lakh unelectrified BPL households electricity connection free of charge, as per norms of Kutir Jyoti Programme in all rural electrification.  Therefore, the present amendment in Section 6 is a welcome step taken by our hon. Minister. Another important amendment is with respect to the Section 151 of the present Act, 2003. According to Section 151 , the police cannot take any action  directly against the persons involved in the theft of electric energy or alteration in the meter.  If they want to take action, they have to include it in the provision of the Indian Penal Code . According to the present amendment, and the inclusion of Section 151(2)(3) in Section 151 , it would  pave the way for the police to investigate and take cognizance of the offences as per provision of the Criminal Procedure Code . It will reduce offences and the police would be able to take action against the culprits.  For, for example, Section 39 of the Electricity Act. If any case is registered,  police is using Section 379 of the IPC. So, all such cases are being ended in acquittal. But by this amendment, we would get more conviction, and the offences would also be reduced.  This is another important and good amendment in this proposed Bill. It is proposed to constitute special courts  for speedy trial without committing the offences to  special courts under Section 153 to try offences under Sections 135 to 138 But, in this proposed amendment, I am having a small reservation.  Based on this amendment, the State Governments are directed to constitute special courts. It is an unnecessary burden on the State Governments. Moreover, in all subordinate courts, a large number of cases and even in a small magistrate courts, more than 2,000 cases are pending there.  Therefore, the Government of India has to allocate more funds to the States to be able to constitute the special courts, special prosecutors and the infrastructural facilities.  Then only, we can try the offences of the electricity. This is my humble submission. Madam, while concluding my speech, I would mention about the situation in Delhi.  The power situation in this country is alarming. Delhi, the Capital City of this country, is short of 800 MW.  Each 100 MW shortage means an hour of cuts.  The Financial Capital of India, Mumbai, is also facing the power shortage of 400 MW, and same is the situation in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Our country generates 1,29,000 MW of power, and there is a shortage of 70,000 MW.  Usually, electricity production capacity would be increased as per increase of demand, but I am sorry to mention that in the last 10 years, there has been no electricity capacity addition.  Those who were in power since 1996 to 2004, had failed to concentrate on “power” to help the public.  But now, our hon. Minister of Power, Shri Shindeji, who is a very efficient Minister has taken a number of steps to produce more electricity and to solve the problem of public of this country.  I am appreciating and congratulating him. I am supporting this Bill 

            With these words, I am supporting this Bill and concluding my speech. श्री अनिल बसु ( आरामबाग ) : सभापति महोदया, मैं सबसे पहले शिंदे जी को बधाई देता हूं कि उन्होंने ये सारे संशोधन स्वीकार किए। यह बिल पहले संसद की संयुक्त स्थाई समति में गया था। उस समति ने सभी बिंदुओं पर विचार करके अपने सुझाव दिए थे। उस समति में मेरी पार्टी के भी सदस्य थे और उन्होंने भी अपने सुझाव दिए थे। उन सभी को आपने स्वीकार किया इसलिए आप बधाई के पात्र हैं। कुछ खास मुद्दों की ओर मैं सदन का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहता हूं। आदरणीय सुरेश प्रभु ने सब्सिडी के बारे में यहां जिक्र किया था, मुझे लगता है कि वह ठीक नहीं है। [R37]  सरकार आपको चलानी है। भारत हो या दुनिया का कोई भी मुल्क हो, सब्सिडी तो देनी ही पड़ती है। अमरीका कृषि क्षेत्र में जो सब्सिडी देता है वह हमारी कल्पना से परे है, उसके बारे में हम सोच भी नहीं सकते हैं। इतनी राशि की वे लोग सब्सिडी देते हैं जिसकी कल्पना हम नहीं कर सकते हैं। आप तो महाराष्ट्र के चीफ-मनिस्टर भी थे। आप बहुत अनुभवी हैं और केन्द्रीय मत्रिमंडल में आये हैं। जब महाराष्ट्र में किसानों ने आत्महत्याएं कीं तो स्वयं वहां पर माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी गये। चार हजार करोड़ रुपये का पैकेज घोषित किया, यह भी तो एक प्रकार की सब्सिडी ही है। सब्सिडी से किसान को परेशानी थी, इसलिए उन लोगों ने सुसाइड किया। इसके बाद आपको फिर सब्सिडी देना पड़ता है। स्पेशल पैकेज करके आपने सब्सिडी दी, यह बात ठीक है। अगर इकोनोमिक अपलिफ्टमेंट करना है ९-१० परसेंट से ज्यादा जीडीपी करना है तो आपको सब्सिडी तो देनी ही पड़ेगी। इसलिए माननीय सुरेश प्रभु जी ने क्रॉस-सब्सिडाइजेशन से जो कुछ बताया, उसका मैं विरोध करता हूं। माननीय सुरेश प्रभु जी ने जो कुछ बताया वह कोरपोरेट हाउस की बात है, उन्होंने ग्रामीण क्षेत्र की कोई बात नहीं की। उन्होंने कोरपोरेट हाउस को कैसे बचाना है उसका तरीका बताया। इसलिए सुरेश प्रभु जी से मेरा विरोध है। जो कम्युनिटी प्रोजैक्ट्स हैं जैसे स्वजल धारा प्रोजैक्ट है जो रुरल डैवलेपमेंट डिपार्टमेंट की स्कीम है। जो Potable Drinking Water in Rural Areas BÉEä ¤ÉÉ®ä àÉå cè* <ºÉàÉå ãÉÉ£ÉÉlÉÉÔ BÉEÉÒ BÉEàÉä]ÉÒ MÉ~xÉ BÉE®xÉä BÉEä ¤ÉÉn +ÉÉè® {ÉÆSÉÉªÉiÉ ºÉä =ºÉBÉEÉ +ÉxÉÖàÉÉänxÉ cÉäxÉä BÉEä ¤ÉÉn 10 |ÉÉÊiÉ¶ÉiÉ ÉÊcººÉÉ ãÉÉ£ÉÉlÉÉÔ näiÉÉ cè +ÉÉè® 90 |ÉÉÊiÉ¶ÉiÉ ÉÊcººÉÉ <ºÉàÉå âó®ãÉ bè´ÉãÉä{ÉàÉå] ÉÊb{ÉÉ]ÇàÉå] näiÉÉ cè* àÉä®ä ÉÊVÉãÉä àÉå 200 ºÉä +ÉÉÊvÉBÉE º´ÉVÉãÉ vÉÉ®É ºBÉEÉÒàºÉ BÉEÉä ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ BÉEÉ BÉExÉèBÉD¶ÉxÉ xÉcÉÓ ÉÊàÉãÉ ®cÉ cè BÉDªÉÉåÉÊBÉE ªÉc ºÉÉÎ¤ºÉbÉÒ JÉiàÉ cÉäxÉä BÉEä ¤ÉÉn, <ãÉèBÉD]ÅÉÒÉÊºÉ]ÉÒ BÉExÉäBÉD¶ÉxÉ BÉEÉ <iÉxÉÉ ¤É½É SÉÉVÉÇ cÉä MÉªÉÉ ÉÊBÉE ´Éc ºBÉEÉÒàÉ ´ÉÉªÉ¤ÉãÉ xÉcÉÓ ®cÉÒ* ªÉc ºÉ´ÉÉãÉ càÉÉ®ä ºÉÉàÉxÉä cè* ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ ºÉä VÉÉä µÉEÉÒàÉä]®ÉÒ SÉãÉiÉÉÒ cè =ºÉBÉEÉ ãÉÉ£É càÉ =~ÉiÉä cé BÉDªÉÉåÉÊBÉE VÉÉä VÉÆMÉãÉ BÉEÉÒ ãÉBÉE½ÉÒ cè =ºÉBÉEÉä ¤ÉSÉÉªÉÉ VÉÉ ºÉBÉEä* =ºÉBÉEÉ SÉÉVÉÇ VªÉÉnÉ cÉä VÉÉAMÉÉ, =ºÉBÉEÉ BÉExÉèBÉD¶ÉxÉ SÉÉVÉÇ VªÉÉnÉ cÉä VÉÉAMÉÉ, =ºÉBÉEÉ ]èÉÊ®{ÉE VªÉÉnÉ cÉä VÉÉAMÉÉ iÉÉä ãÉÉäMÉ ãÉBÉE½ÉÒ <ºiÉäàÉÉãÉ BÉE®åMÉä iÉÉä càÉ VÉÆMÉãÉ BÉEÉä ¤ÉSÉÉxÉä BÉEä ¤ÉVÉÉA, VÉÆMÉãÉ BÉEÉä JÉiàÉ BÉE®åMÉä* <ºÉÉÊãÉA àÉéxÉä £ÉÉÒ AàÉ{ÉÉÒ ãÉèb ºÉä ÉËºÉSÉÉ<Ç ºBÉEÉÒàÉ BÉEÉä ÉÊBÉEªÉÉ, 33 ãÉÉJÉ âó{ÉªÉÉ JÉSÉÇ cÖ+ÉÉ, 107 ABÉE½ VÉàÉÉÒxÉ àÉå ÉËºÉSÉÉ<Ç cÉäMÉÉÒ, ÉËºÉMÉãÉ µÉEÉì{É ºÉä àÉã]ÉÒ{ÉãÉ µÉEÉì{É cÉä VÉÉAMÉÉÒ* <ºÉàÉå ÉÊ´ÉBÉEÉºÉ BÉEÉ BÉEÉàÉ cÉäMÉÉ ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ BÉEÉ SÉÉVÉÇ ¤ÉcÖiÉ VªÉÉnÉ cè ÉÊVÉºÉºÉä ÉËºÉSÉÉ<Ç ºBÉEÉÒàÉ BÉEÉä SÉãÉÉxÉÉ àÉÖÉÎ¶BÉEãÉ cÉä MÉªÉÉ* <ºÉÉÊãÉA àÉÖZÉä ªÉc BÉEcxÉÉ cè ÉÊBÉE VÉÉä BÉEàªÉÖÉÊxÉ]ÉÒ ¤ÉäºÉ |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD]ÂºÉ cé VÉèºÉä BÉEÉä+ÉÉä{É®äÉÊ]´É ºÉÉäºÉÉ<]ÉÒVÉ, {ÉÆSÉÉªÉiÉ +ÉÉè® ºÉ®BÉEÉ® BÉEä |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD]ÂºÉ cé =xÉàÉå µÉEÉìºÉ-ºÉÉÎ¤ºÉbÉ<VÉä¶ÉxÉ cÉäxÉÉ SÉÉÉÊcA* 

 दूसरा, यह जो राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण योजना आप लोगों ने बनाई, बहुत अच्छा किया। एक्ट के एक सैक्शन को अमेंड करके आप यह सैक्शन लाए, बहुत अच्छा काम किया। ये लोग जो उधर बैठे हैं, इन्होंने यह नहीं किया। देश को कैसे पीछे ले जाना है, यही काम इन्होंने किया।...( व्यवधान) MADAM CHAIRMAN : Prof. Rasa Singh Rawatji, no discussion please. Do not disturb please. श्री अनिल बसु : इन लोगों ने कभी सोचा भी नहीं कि ऐसी कोई स्कीम भी हो सकती है। [r38]  

 महोदया, इतने बड़े नेता थे, लेकिन किसी ने भी देश के बारे में नहीं सोचा। MADAM CHAIRMAN  : Shri Anil Basu, please address the Chair. Do not respond to them. … (Interruptions) श्री अनिल बसु : महोदया, राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना १६,२२५ करोड़ रुपयों की परियोजना है। इसमें १४,७५० करोड़ रुपयों का सब्सीडी कम्पोनेंट है। इसका इम्प्िलमेंटेशन दो तरीके से और दो फेस में होगा। फेस-१ वर्ष २००५-०६ से शुरू हुआ है और वर्ष २००५-०६ में इसकी सब्सीडी ५ हजार करोड़ रुपए थी। आप कृपया हाउस को यह जानकारी दीजिए कि ५,००० करोड़ रुपयों की जो सब्सीडी कम्पोनेंट है, उसमें कितने करोड़ रुपए आपने वर्ष २००५-०६ में रिलीज़ किए और वर्ष २००६-०७ में कितने रुपए आपने रिलीज किए तथा वर्ष २००७-०८ में आप क्या करने वाले हैं? मेरे राज्य को इस परियोजना के तहत कुछ भी नहीं दिया गया, इसका क्या कारण है? ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों का विद्युतीकरण सारे देश के लिए जरूरी है, लेकिन इस परियोजना के तहत पश्चिम बंगाल को आपने पैसा क्यों नहीं दिया? आप इस साल हमारे राज्य को कितना पैसा देंगे, कृपया करके आप बताने का कष्ट करें? मेरा तीसरा प्रश्न है, मैंने तारांकित प्रश्न के समय पूछा था, लेकिन इसका उत्तर आपने नहीं दिया। वह प्रश्न पावर जैनेरेटिंग कैपेसिटी से संबंधित था। मैंने पूछा था कि राज्य सरकार का जो आउटलेट पावर जैनेरेटिंग स्टेशन है, उसमें कितना मेगावाट पावर जैनेरेटिंग स्टेशन आउटलेट हो जाएगा? इस बारे में आप क्या कर रहे हैं और इसे करने का क्या तरीका है? पावर स्टेशन का जो जैनेरेटिंग कैपेसिटी है, वह आउटलेट होने के कारण खत्म हो जाएगी। उसे रिप्लेस करने का क्या कोई स्कीम है? अगर स्कीम है तो क्या है और उसमें आपका एलोकेशन क्या है? क्वालिटी आफ इलेक्ट्रीसिटी बहुत महत्वपूर्ण सवाल है। Affordability of different categories of users of electricity देखने के बाद टैरिफ ठीक होना चाहिए। हाई टैंशन का क्वालिटी आफ इलेक्ट्रीसिटी आपने ठीक किया है। हाई टैंशन में ग्रिड का रेग्यूलेशन करना भी बहुत जरूरी था, लेकिन लो टैंशन लाइन में क्या हो रहा है? लो टैंशन लाइन में चोरी ज्यादा होती है। हमारे देश में लो टैंशन लाइन की स्थिति सुधारने के लिए मैंने एक बार प्लानिंग कमीशन में बात की थी। उस समय मुझे बताया गया कि इस काम के लिए लगभग ७० हजार करोड़ रुपयों की जरूरत है। अगर लो टैंशन लाइन में चोरी रोकनी है, पावर इलेक्ट्रीसिटी देनी है, क्वालिटी अच्छी करनी है, तो आपको ७० हजार करोड़ रुपयों की जरूरत है। इस बारे में अभी तक कुछ नहीं किया गया है। श्री सुरेश प्रभु ने ठीक कहा है कि ट्रांसफार्मर में जो इनपुट आती है और ट्रांसफार्मर से जो आउटपुट होती है, उसमें रेव्युलेशन जेनरेशन की द्ृष्टि से विचार करके रिस्पोंसबिलटी फिक्स करनी चाहिए, तभी चोरी बंद होगी। केंद्रीय सरकार द्वारा ही यह काम होना चाहिए। आदरणीय महोदया, बिजली ऐसा क्षेत्र है, जिसकी जरूरत चेयर पर बैठने वालों को भी होती है और यहां से खड़े हो कर बोलने वाले लोगों को भी होती है तथा जो बीच में टेबल के पास लोग बैठे हैं, उन्हें भी बिजली की जरूरत होती है। Transmission and distribution system में कोई रूकावट आए, यह बात ठीक नहीं है। मैं श्री सुशील कुमार शिंदे जी को बधाई देता हूं कि वे अनुभवी हैं और जो कुछ किया है, वह अच्छा किया है, लेकिन अभी भी बहुत कुछ करना बाकी है। जो काम रुके हुए हैं, उन्हें पूरा करने के लिए कदम उठाइए, हमारा समर्थन आपको मिलेगा। इस वक्तव्य के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। श्री शैलेन्द्र कुमार (चायल) आदरणीय सभापति महोदया, विद्युत अधनियम २००३ का संशोधन करते हुए विद्युत संशोधन विधेयक २००५ पर यहां चर्चा हो रही है। मैं इस बिल के बारे में थोड़े सुझाव देना चाहूंगा। देखा गया है कि हम मांग की अपेक्षा उत्पादन पर बहुत कम ध्यान दे रहे हैं। जहां तक यह संशोधन है, वह उत्पादन और वितरण से संबधित है। दुर्भाग्य की बात है कि हम बिजली का उत्पादन नहीं कर पा रहे हैं। कानून पर कानून और संशोधन पर संशोधन करते जा रहे हैं। उसी व्यवस्था में इतने कानून बना रहे हैं और इतने संशोधन कर रहे हैं कि उत्पादन पर हमारा ध्यान हटा हुआ है। मैं निवेदन करूंगा कि हम प्रोडक्शन की तरफ विशेष ध्यान दें। इसके पहले भी मैं सदन में कह चुका हूं कि उत्तर प्रदेश में दादरी प्रोजैक्ट बन कर तैयार है जो गैस पर आधारित है। १५०० मेगावाट का बिजली संयंत्र जो बन कर तैयार है, गैस न मिलने के कारण चालू नहीं हो पाया है। अगर चालू हो जाए तो मेरे ख्याल में उत्तर प्रदेश, जो देश का ह्ृदय प्रदेश है, उसे पूरी तरह चौबीस घंटे बिजली भी मिलेगी और हम अन्य राज्यों को भी बिजली की सप्लाई कर सकते हैं। उत्तर प्रदेश में बहुत से प्रोजैक्ट काफी साल पुराने हैं जैसे अनपरा जैसे तमाम ऐसे प्रोजैक्ट हैं जो पुराने हैं। अगर आर्थिक मदद देकर, आप उन्हें चला दें तो मेरे ख्याल में विद्युत की कमी को पूरा किया जा सकता है। आपने बिल में राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना की बात कही है जो स्वागत योग्य है। आपने यह भी कहा है कि केन्द्र और राज्य के संयुक्त उत्तरदायित्व में ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में विद्युतीकरण हो रहा है। देखा गया है कि गांवों की आबादी बढ़ रही है। हम लोगों से सांसद नधि से मांग की जाती है कि कुछ खंभे और तार के लिए सहायता दीजिए। बढ़ती हुई आबादी को देखते हुए विद्युतीकृत गांवों के विस्तार की भी जरूरत है। इसी के साथ मेन गांवों में विद्युतीकरण कर दिया गया है लेकिन तमाम मजरे और पूरबे जो गांव के बराबर हैं, उनका आज भी विद्युतीकरण नहीं किया गया है। उसके लिए मैं मांग करूंगा कि तमाम मजरों और पूरबों को राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना में लिया जाए ताकि वे पूरी तरह से सैचुरेटिड हो सकें। जैसा कि रामजीलाल सुमन जी ने कहा कि बिजली की दरें भारत में अधिक हैं। उन्हें कम करने की जरूरत है। सबसिडी के बारे में सदन में बहुत विस्तार से चर्चा हुई है। मैं चाहूंगा कि आप केवल शहरी क्षेत्रों को न देखें बल्कि ग्रामीण क्षेत्र जो देश के विकास की धूरी है, जहां किसान विद्युत का इस्तेमाल करके खेती करते हैं, उन्हें सबसिडी देकर बिजली की सप्लाई करें। हो सके तो उन्हें मुफ्त बिजली दी जाए। तभी हम देश को विकास की तरफ ले जा सकेंगे। बिल में दिखा गया है कि इंसपैक्टरों की नियुक्ति की जाएगी। इंसपैक्टर राज को पूरी तरह समाप्त करने की बात होनी चाहिए। उत्तरप्रदेश में इंसपैक्टर राज का खात्मा हो गया है। इंसपैक्टर राज का इसमें समावेश होगा को मेरे ख्याल से इस संशोधन की मंशा पूरी नहीं हो पाएगी। तमाम सदस्यों ने इस बात की मांग की है कनिजीकरण पर विशेष ध्यान देना चाहिए। जहां निजीकरण के तहत बिजली की सप्लाई हो रही है, वहां व्यवस्था बहुत अच्छी है जैसे गुजरात और दूसरे कई प्रदेश हैं। वहां बिजली की सप्लाई अच्छी है और बिजली भी समय पर मिल रही है। इसलिए निजीकरण पर विशेष ध्यान देने की जरूरत है।[a39] जहां तक कटिया और चोरी की बात कही गई है, मीटर रीडिंग या मीटर में हेरफेर करके चोरी होती है। मैं इस संबंध में सुझाव देना चाहता हूं एक तार आता है जो प्लास्टिक कोटिड होता है, अगर उसमें कटिया लगा दिया जाए तो मेरे ख्याल से सप्लाई नहीं होती है। अगर आप यह व्यवस्था कर दें तो मेरे ख्याल से विद्युत चोरी पर काफी प्रतिबंध लग सकता है। जहां तक इसमें पुलिस को और अधिकार देने की बात कही गई है, मेरे ख्याल से इससे चोरी और बढ़ेगी, अपराध और बढ़ेंगे इसलिए मेरे विचार में इसमें थोड़ा संशोधन करने की जरूरत है। अब देखा गया है कि बिजली विभाग का नियंत्रण तो कम है लेकिन पुलिस विभाग का ज्यादा नियंत्रण और सख्ती होने से लोगों को बहुत परेशानी और दिक्कत का सामना करना पड़ रहा है। जहां तक बिल के बकाए की बात है, मैं उत्तर प्रदेश की तरफ आपका ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहूंगा, बड़े उद्योगपति और बड़े फैक्ट्री वालों पर करोड़ों रुपए का बकाया है लेकिन उनसे वसूली सख्ती से नहीं हो पाती है। वे बड़े लोग हैं, पैसा देकर कहीं न कहीं से एजस्टमेंट कर लेते हैं लेकिन अगर कोई किसान है तो तहसील से आरसी इश्यू किया जाता है, उसे पकड़ कर ले जाते हैं और उसे जेल जाना पड़ता है। मेरे ख्याल से यह दोहरा मापदंड पर विशेष ध्यान देने की जरूरत है क्योंकि गरीब किसानों के मुख्य उत्पादन का कारण बिजली है। वे बिजली की सहायता से ही छोटे-छोटे उद्योग धंधे करते हैं, इसलिए इसे बढ़ावा देने के लिए हमें कोशिश करनी चाहिए। ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में जो बिजली दे रहे हैं, उसमें सब्सिडी करके कम रेट पर बिजली दी जानी चाहिए, ऐसा करके ही हम देश का विकास कर सकते हैं। मैं कुछ संशोधन देते हुए इन्हीं बातों के साथ अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं और इस बिल पर बल देता हूं। इसके साथ ही मैं माननीय मंत्री जी को बधाई देता हूं कि वे इस बिल को लाए हैं इसलिए इस पर विशेष ध्यान दें। मैं इसके साथ ही एक मांग करके अपनी बात समाप्त करूंगा, मैंने दो-तीन पत्र आपको लिखे थे कि हमारा क्षेत्र बहुत पिछड़ा क्षेत्र है, रिजर्व क्षेत्र है। वहां राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना में २१२ गांवों को शामिल किया है, अगर ५०० गांवों को इसमें शामिल कर लेंगे तो मझोले गांवों का भी विद्युतीकरण हो जाएगा। इन्हीं बातों के साथ मैं अपनी बात समाप्त करता हूं। आपने मुझे बोलने का मौका दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपका धन्यवाद करता हूं। प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत ( अजमेर ): मैं आपके माध्यम से विद्युत संशोधन विधेयक, २००५ के संबंध में अपने विचार प्रस्तुत करूंगा। अभी हमारे कामरेड साथी बोल रहे थे और बीच में जो सरकार आई थी, उसे वे सारा दोष दे रहे थे। मैं आपके माध्यम से इस सरकार से कहना चाहता हूं कि ६० वर्ष इस देश को आजाद हुए हो गए हैं और साठ वर्ष में दस साल की अवधि को छोड़ कर पचास साल किनका शासन रहा? सभापति महोदया :  आप बिल के संबंध में बोलें। समय कम है, आपके बोलने का समय पांच मिनट है। प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत : संकेत ही पर्याप्त मात्र है। उन लोगों को भारत के विद्युतीकरण की ओर जितना ध्यान दिया जाना चाहिए, विद्युत क्षेत्र में आत्मनिर्भरता लाने का जितना प्रयास किया जाना चाहिए, उन्होंने कोशिश की लेकिन फिर भी सफलता प्राप्त नहीं हो पाई। एनडीए सरकार ने ही तो विद्युत अधनियम, २००३ बनाया, जो इतना सशक्त और सक्षम है, उसमें जो कमियां रह गई थीं जो आप पूरी कर रहे हैं। आपको उस सरकार का आभार मानना चाहिए कि पहले के जो विधेयक और कानून बने हुए थे, उन सबमें एक कॉम्प्रेहेन्सिव बिल लेकर आए थे और उसमें थोड़े संशोधन आप लेकर आए हैं। इस तरह से दोषारोपण की बात है। मैं आपके माध्यम से कहना चाहता हूं क “न इधर-उधर की बात तू कर, यह बता काफिला क्यों लुटा, मुझे राहजनों से गुरज नहीं, तेरी रहबरी का सवाल है” इसलिए मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि भारत गांवों का देश है। हमारी कृषि आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था है जब तक सारे गांव विद्युतीकृत नहीं होंगे, तब तक न तो प्रकाश मिलेगा, न ऊर्जा प्राप्त होगी, न ही सिंचाई के साधन प्राप्त होंगे और न ही खेती का विकास होगा, इसलिए गांवों में बिजली तो जानी चाहिए। लेकिन मुझे खेद के साथ कहना पड़ रहा है चाहे ९वीं या १०वीं पंचवर्षीय योजना हो, या जो लक्ष्य पहले निर्धारित किए गए थे, उनकी जो पूर्ति होनी चाहिए थी वह नहीं हो पाई और परिणामस्वरूप सब लक्ष्य पीछे रह गए। प्रयास तो हुए, चाहे एनटीपीसी के माध्यम से हुए, चाहे हाइड्रो इलैक्टि्रक के माध्यम से, लेकिन पता नहीं क्या कारण है कि राजस्थान में कोटा और रावतभाटा में आणविक शक्ति से विद्युत उत्पादन किया जाता है और आए दिन कभी एक रिएक्टर खराब होता है तो कभी दूसरा रिएक्टर खराब होता है। इस तरह से पहला, दूसरा, तीसरा, चौथा और पांचवां, जितने चरण हैं उनमें पता नहीं अमरीका ने टेक्नोलॉजी नहीं दी है या निर्माण में कोई कमी रह गई है? [r40]  

परिणामस्वरूप महीने में एक-दो बार वह खराब हो जाता है। वैसे ही राजस्थान में बिजली की बहुत कमी है और हमें बिजली दूसरे राज्यों से लेनी पड़ती है। महंगे भाव की बिजली अन्य राज्यों से या केन्द्र सरकार से खरीदकर सस्ते भाव पर देनी पड़ती है। आज सब्सिडी की बीमारी ऐसी लगी है, कहने को यह बड़ी अच्छी लगती है कि गांवों के लोगों को सब्सिडी दी जानी चाहिए। रशिया कोलैप्स हो गया और अन्यान्य देश संभल गये। लेकिन हम लोगों की आदत है, ‘àÉÉãÉä àÉÖ{ÉDiÉ, ÉÊnãÉä ¤Éä®càÉ’ जब मुफ्त का माल मिलता है तो दिल बेरहम हो जाता है। ‘मुफ्त का माल, कुण कमावे रे लाल’ यह राजस्थानी में कहावत है कि जब मुफ्त का माल मिलता है तो कोई मेहनत नहीं करना चाहता है। जो गरीब राज्य हैं, जहां गरीब लोग हों, कमजोर वर्ग हों, वहां सब्सिडी का सहारा अवश्य दिया जाए, जब तक कि वे उस लक्ष्य को प्राप्त न कर लें या उस स्थिति में न पहुंच जाएं। लेकिन सबको एक जैसे तरीके से लेते हैं और करोड़ों, अरबों रुपया सब्सिडी में देते हैं, जिसके कारण आदत बिगड़ गई है। आज जितने भी स्टेट इलैक्टि्रसिटी बोर्डस हैं, सारे के सारे घाटे में चल रहे हैं। इस घाटे और सारी स्थितियों को ध्यान में रखते हुए विद्युत अधनियम, २००३ लाया गया था, जिससे जनरेशन, पारेषण, डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन, व्यापार और उपयोग के संदर्भ में नियम और उप-नियमों का निर्माण हुआ। यह अच्छी बात हुई। लेकिन जहां निजी कम्पनियां हैं, वे बहुत अच्छी सर्विस दे रही हैं और उनकी बिजली भी कम जाती है। लेकिन सरकारी बिजली कब आ जाए, कब चली जाए, कब एक फेज आ रहा है, कब दूसरा फेज आ रहा है और कभी तीनों ही फेज गायब हो जाते हैं। इसके अलावा कभी हाई और लो वोल्टेज के कारण टी.वी. तथा बिजली के अन्य उपकरण खराब हो जाते हैं। मैं समझता हूं कि इसे भी सरकार को देखना चाहिए। क्योंकि सरकार का काम है शासन करना, सरकार का काम है व्यवस्था करना, सरकार का काम है कानून बनाना, सरकार का काम है कानूनों का पालन करवाना। लेकिन सरकार जब स्वयं व्यापार करने लग जाती है और स्वयं ऐसे कार्यों में पड़ जाती है तो कर्मचारियों की मानसिकता ऐसी होती है कि अब तो मैं नकद जमाई बन गया, काम नहीं करूंगा तो ज्यादा से ज्यादा ट्रांसफर हो जायेगा या और कुछ हो जायेगा। इस वजह से वे काम नहीं करते हैं। लेकिन गुजरात आदि राज्यों में बिजली समय पर क्यों मिलती है और सब कुछ क्यों अच्छा होता है, क्योंकि वहां बिजली प्राइवेट हाथों में हैं। मुम्बई में और अन्य स्थानों पर भी यही व्यवस्था है। महाराष्ट्र में आप दाभोल कम्पनी लाये, लेकिन बाद में पता नहीं किन कारणों से दाभोल कम्पनी का आपने क्या किया। इसलिए मेरा कहने का मतलब है केन्द्र सरकार, राज्य सरकार, निजी कम्पनियां और सभी सक्षम संगठन प्रयास करें, ताकि हमारे यहां विद्युत का संकट समाप्त हो सके। महोदया, मैं आपके माध्यम से राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण योजना की तरफ सरकार का ध्यान आकर्षित करना चाहता हूं। राजस्थान में बिजली की बहुत कमी है। माननीय मंत्री जी जब उत्तर देंगे तो थोड़ा इस बारे में बताने का कष्ट करें कि हमारे यहां अंता तथा रामगढ़ में जो गैस आधारित विद्युत उत्पादन का केन्द्र प्रारम्भ हुआ था, उसके लिए राज्य सरकार को गैस चाहिए। अब जैसलमेर और बाड़मेर में गैस मिलने लग गई है या अंता, उत्तर प्रदेश या भरतपुर के पास में जो एरिया पड़ता है, वहां भी गैस की आवश्यकता है। लेकिन गैस की सप्लाई केन्द्र सरकार के हाथ में है। जब गैस नहीं मिलेगी तो जो विद्युत उत्पादन गृह स्थापित किये गये हैं, वे संचालित नहीं हो सकते हैं और परिणामस्वरूप बड़े संकट का सामना करना पड़ता है। एक तरफ अरुणाचल और उत्तर-पूर्व के राज्य हैं, जहां बिजली बहुतायत से होती है, उन राज्यों से बिजली लाने की व्यवस्था की जाए। इस काम में एक बार खर्चा अवश्य होगा, लेकिन इससे राजस्थान, हरियाणा और पंजाब में बिजली का संकट कम होगा। सभापति महोदया, मैं आपका संरक्षण चाहूंगा। आज जो सरकारों में होड़ चली है कि कौन बिजली मुफ्त देता है। सरकार सस्ती वाहवाही लूटने और जनता के वोट बटोरने के लिए कहती है कि हम बिजली बहुत सस्ती कर देंगे और सस्ती बिजली देने का कारण क्या स्थिति हो जाती है और लोगों की आदत कैसी बन जाती है। इस मामले में हम सब लोगों को सस्ती वाहवाही से ऊपर उठकर और राष्ट्र हित को सर्वोपरि मानकर विद्युत उत्पादन कैसे बढ़े, विद्युत का सही उपयोग कैसे हो, कैसे किसानों तक बिजली पहुंचे, कैसे किसानों को बिजली सहज सुलभ कराई जाए और जितना खर्चा हो, उसके अनुसार कैसे उनमें भावना पैदा की जाए कि हमें देश के लिए बिजली के पूरे पैसे देने है, जितना जिसके हिस्से बिजली का उपभोग आयेगा, बिजली का खर्चा हम आपस में बांटकर देंगे, सबमें यह भावना पैदा होनी चाहिए। इसलिए शॉर्टेज वाले राज्यों में उन राज्यों से बिजली लाने की व्यवस्था की जाए, जहां इसकी बहुलता है। इसके अलावा मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि जहां केन्द्र के पावर ग्रिड हैं, वहां भी पावर फेल्योर हो जाती है, जिसके कारण पूरे उत्तरी भारत में अंधेरा हो जाता है[b41] । आखिर क्या कारण है, क्या कमी है? इसके बारे में जानकारी देने का कष्ट करें। ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण के बारे में मैं यही कहूंगा कि राजस्थान के बहुत से गांवों का विद्युतीकरण होना अभी बाकी है। मूल पंचायत को तो ले लिया गया है, लेकिन ग्राम पंचायतों में ढाणियां बिखरी हुई रहती हैं। मूल पंचायत में बिजली के खम्भे लग गये, लट्टू भी लग गये और प्रकाश आ गया लेकिन जितनी भी ढाणियां हैं, वे मूल पंचायत के गांव से भी बड़ी हैं।...( व्यवधान) सभापति महोदया :रावत जी, àÉÆjÉÉÒ VÉÉÒ +É£ÉÉÒ VÉ´ÉÉ¤É nåMÉä* ®ÉVÉºlÉÉxÉ BÉEä ¤ÉÉ®ä àÉå ´Éä ¤ÉiÉÉAÆMÉä* प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत : राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण प्रोजेक्ट के बारे में पूछा जाता है तो कहा जाता है कि हो गया। कहां हो गया? इसलिए मैं आपके माध्यम से कहना चाहूंगा कि राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण में राजस्थान के ज्यादा गांव लिये जाएं। जिन नियमों में आपने संशोधन किये हैं, वे हित में हैं और इसलिए हितकारी जो संशोधन हैं, उनका मैं समर्थन करता हूं। लेकिन सब्सिडी वाली नीति पर बहुत ज्यादा वाहवाही लूटने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। इसी के साथ मैं आपको धन्यवाद देता हूं। चौधरी लाल सिंह ( उधमपुर ) : सभापति महोदया, मैं आपकी इजाजत से विद्युत (संशोधन) विधेयक, २००५, के समर्थन में बोलने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं औऱ कुछ सुझाव देना चाहता हूं। मैं कहना चाहूगा कि जो बिजली है, वह आज इंसान के जीवन का जरूरी हिस्सा बन चुकी है। चाहे विकास की द्ृष्टि से देखें या एक इंसान की व्यक्तिगत मुश्किलों के हिसाब से देखें, इंसान बिजली का हैबिचुअल सा हो गया है कि इसके बिना वह नहीं रह सकता। मैं कहूंगा कि कुछ ऐसी बातें हैं जो प्रैक्टिकली हमने देखी हैं। मैं एक ऐसे राज्य से हूं जो पहाड़ी राज्य है और सबसे ज्यादा पानी भी हमारे राज्य में है। वहां इतने दरिया हैं, इतनी नदियां हैं और पाकिस्तान के साथ जो संधि की गई थी, उसमें भी हमारा नुकसान हुआ है। मैं यहां कहना चाहूंगा कि उस जमाने के हालात अलग थे और आज के जमाने के हालात अलग हैं। इसलिए उसको मद्देनज़र रखते हुए औऱ पाकिस्तान की भी सोच को देखते हुए मैं कहूंगा कि उस ट्रीटी को तोड़ना चाहिए। उसकी अब कोई जरूरत नहीं है। हमें अपनी बिजली तैयार करने के लिए भी परमिशन लेनी पड़ती है। अगर इजाजत मिलेगी तो हमारा प्रोजेक्ट बनेगा। इसलिए मंत्री जी जब अपना जवाब देंगे तो हमें उस ट्रीटी के बारे में बताएं और साथ ही मैं कहूंगा कि हमारे कुछ ऐसे दरियां हैं जिनमें बहुत ज्यादा पानी हैं और कुछ प्रोजेक्ट्स की पहचान भी हुई है जो गवर्नमेंट ऑफ इंडिया के पास पड़े हैं। इसलिए सरकार उसकी तरफ थोड़ा ध्यान दे, जैसे हमारा पैंतीस जी का प्रोजेक्ट है, कठुआ जिले का है और उजरीपुर में बनना है, उसे भी देखें। हमारे कुछ प्रोजेक्ट्स डोडा जिले के हैं और एनएचपीसी जो आपका संगठन है, यह संगठन जब टेंडर लेती है और इसके साथ टेंडर आगे सबमिट होता है तो आपको यह जानकर हैरानी होगी कि जो टेंडर आपने दिया और जो प्रोजेक्ट उन्होंने खड़ा करना है, उसके बाद जब वह आगे सबमिट करती है तो दूसरी भी प्रॉफिट कमाती होगी और जो एग्रीमेंट उस इलाके के साथ हुआ होता है, जैसे जिस इलाके में जिन किसानों की जमीन ली गई है, जो जमीन सबमर्ज हुई है, उस जमीन के किसानों को कहा गया है कि इनके घर से एक आदमी को सर्विस देंगे। लेकिन होता यह है कि प्रोजेक्ट बन गये, जैसे राजीव सागर डैम बन गया, दूसरा एक और पूरा होने जा रहा है और बगलेहार का प्रोजेक्ट भी पूरा होने जा रहा है, लेकिन जो उन लोगों को सर्विस देने की बात कही गई थी, वह अभी तक उन्हें नहीं दी गई है और जो सर्विस में लगते हैं तथा जब उसकी बारी कम्पलीशन में आ जाती है तो कम्पलीशन के समय उन लोगों की छंटनी करके उनको दूरदराज के राज्यों में लगाया जाता cè*[r42]  

            जो प्रभावित लोग थे, उन्हें उठाकर  SÉÉèlÉÉÒ ÉÊ®ªÉÉºÉiÉ àÉå £ÉäVÉ ÉÊnªÉÉ MÉªÉÉ* àÉé VÉÉxÉxÉÉ SÉÉciÉÉ cÚÆ ÉÊBÉE VÉÉä |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD]ÂºÉ cÉäiÉä cé, ´ÉcÉÆ nÚºÉ®ÉÒ º]ä] BÉEä ãÉÉäMÉ BÉDªÉÉå  ãÉMÉÉ ÉÊnªÉä VÉÉiÉä cé? cÉãÉiÉ ªÉc cè ÉÊBÉE ´ÉcÉÆ |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD] àÉå VÉMÉc cÉäiÉÉÒ cè, =xÉBÉEÉä ÉÊ¶É{ÉD]  àÉÖÉÎ¶BÉEãÉ xÉcÉÓ cè* VÉÉä +ÉÉnàÉÉÒ ÉÊVÉºÉ ®ÉVªÉ BÉEÉ ®cxÉä ´ÉÉãÉÉ cè , VÉcÉÆ BÉEÉàÉ BÉE®iÉÉ cè, =ºÉä ´ÉcÉÆ ®JÉÉ VÉÉªÉä, ªÉc àÉä®ÉÒ ºÉVÉè¶ÉxÉ cè* <ºÉ {É® vªÉÉxÉ ÉÊnªÉÉ VÉÉªÉä* ¤ÉÉn àÉå |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD] BÉEÉ +ÉÉã]®xÉäÉÊ]´É °ô] ¤ÉnãÉ VÉÉiÉÉ cè* ¤ÉÉÒSÉ àÉå ®ÉÒ´É® {É½iÉÉÒ cè, ZÉÉÒãÉå ¤ÉxÉ VÉÉiÉÉÒ cé ªÉÉ ®ÉºiÉä ãÉà¤Éä cÉä VÉÉiÉä cé* VÉÉä ®ÉºiÉÉ 40 ÉÊBÉEãÉÉäàÉÉÒ]® BÉEÉ cÉäiÉÉ cè, ´Éc 140 ÉÊBÉEãÉÉäàÉÉÒ]® cÉä VÉÉiÉÉ cè* <ºÉàÉå MÉÉÆ´É BÉEä AäÉÊ®ªÉÉVÉ BÉEÉ BÉEÉä<Ç BÉÖEºÉÚ® xÉcÉÓ cÉäiÉÉ cè* àÉé VÉÉxÉxÉÉ SÉÉciÉÉ cÚÆ ÉÊBÉE <ºÉBÉEÉ +ÉÉã]®xÉäÉÊ]´É BÉDªÉÉ cè, =xÉ ãÉÉäMÉÉå BÉEä ÉÊãÉªÉä +ÉÉ{ÉxÉä BÉDªÉÉ ºÉÉäSÉÉ cè? ®ÆVÉÉÒiÉ ºÉÉMÉ® bèàÉ ¤ÉºÉÉèãÉÉÒ àÉå lÉÉ, VÉÉä ÉÊbÉÎº]ÅBÉD] cèbBÉD´ÉÉ]Ç® BÉE~Ö+ÉÉ ºÉä 40 ÉÊBÉEãÉÉäàÉÉÒ]® nÚ® lÉÉ ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ   +ÉÉVÉ =ºÉBÉEÉ ÉÊbºÉ]éºÉ <iÉxÉÉ cÉä MÉªÉÉ cè ÉÊBÉE  <ãÉÉBÉEä àÉå 97 ÉÊBÉEãÉÉäàÉÉÒ]® SÉãÉxÉÉ {É½ ®cÉ cè* +ÉÉVÉ MÉ®ÉÒ¤É BÉEÉä ÉÊBÉE®ÉªÉÉ VªÉÉnÉ näxÉÉ {É½ ®cÉ cè* +ÉÉVÉ +ÉÉã]®xÉèÉÊ]´É °ô] BÉEÉÒ BÉDªÉÉ cÉãÉiÉ cè? ªÉcÉÆ {É® 467 xÉÉèBÉEÉÊ®ªÉÉÆ ºÉéBÉD¶ÉÆb cÖ<Ç {É½ÉÒ cé ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ nÉÒ xÉcÉÓ MÉ<Ç cé* BÉEcÉ VÉÉiÉÉ cè ÉÊBÉE |ÉÉäVÉèBÉD] ¤ÉxÉÉ, ªÉc BÉE®Éä, ´Éc BÉE®Éä ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ BÉÖEU xÉcÉÓ cÉä ®cÉ cè* 

 सभापति महोदया, प्रोजैक्ट्स के बारे में हम बहुत बड़ी बातों पर गौर करें तो मालूम होगा कि जिन लोगों की जमीन आप लेते हैं, उनके रहने के लिये आप कोई इन्तजाम करें। मैंने प्रक्टिकल तौर पर देखा है कि एक लाइनमैन को पहाड़ी एरिया में ४-५ किलोमीटर का एरिया दिया जाता है। अगर एक जगह बिजली चली जाती है तो उसे ढूंढना पड़ता है। इस तरह कई महीने तक बिजली कट रहती है। इसके लिये एक सिस्टम होना चाहिये। एक एरिया में कितने लाइनमैन होने चाहिये? ट्रांसफॉर्मर सड़ जाता है, फिर विचार और चर्चा होती रहती है कि बिजली का वॉल्टेज लो होता है। सरकार कहती है कि हमने बिजली लगा दी है लेकिन हमारे गांव का एक बुजुर्ग अपने बेटे को बुलाकर पूछता है कि बेटा, जरा मोमबती जलाकर देखो कि बिजली जली है? जब यह दिखाना है कि बिजली दी हुई है, बिजली का किराया देना है तो बिजली लगाकर देनी चाहिये। बिजली देने का रिवाज जरूर बनाया गया है लेकिन वह प्रॉपर वे से न देना, ठीक नहीं है। इसका एक सिस्टम होना चाहिये। सभापति महोदया, डेली वेजर्स और छोटे-छोटे लैवल के लोगों को एम्पलाय करने वालों को प्रोजैक्टस पर महीनों तनख्वाह नहीं मिलती है। केवल दुलहस्ती प्रोजैक्ट की बात नहीं, ऐसे कई प्रोजैक्ट्स के बारे में शिकायतें मिलती हैं। यह बात सही है कि सब से ज्यादा हाईडल पॉवर प्रोजैक्ट्स हमारे स्टेट में हैं। हमारे यहां जिनकी जमीन ली जाती है, यदि उनकी ट्रांसफर के लिये लिखते हैं, उसे उस इलाके से उठाकर अरुणाचल प्रदेश, मध्य प्रदेश और दूर दराज के इलाकों में भेज दिया जाता है। जब जमीन ली गई, तब कहा गया कि नौकरी करोगे। हम जब चिट्ठी लिखते हैं तो जवाब आता कि हमारे यहां ऐसा कानून नहीं है। जिस दिन आपकी जमीन ली गई थी, उस दिन कहा था कि हम आपको फायदा देंगे। माननीय मंत्री जी जमीन से जुड़े हुये मनिस्टर हैं,, कोई ऊपर से आए हुए नहीं हैं, इस ओर ध्यान देना चाहिये। आपने ग्राउंडवर्क किया हुआ है, आप देखें, अगर आप नहीं देखेंगे तो सही नहीं होगा। सभापति महोदया, मैं अंतिम बात कहकर अपना भाषण समाप्त करूंगा। अप्रैल, २००५ में राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण योजना की शुरुआत की गई थी। सरकार ने दुनिया में चर्चा की होगी और हमने देखा है कि दिल्ली में बिजली रहती हैलेकिन हमारे .यहां बिजली नहीं है। हमारे यहां इतने सारे गांव हैं लेकिन वहां बिजली नहीं लगी है। इस प्लानिंग के तहत २००५ में यह योजना पूरी हो जाती लेकिन हमारे यहां एक भी खम्भा नहीं लगा पाये हैं। एक भी पोल नहीं लग पाया। मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि ये स्कीमें बनाकर कहां रख दी जाती हैं, क्योंकि मेरी कांस्टीटयूएंसी १७ हजार किलोमीटर क्षेत्र में है, लेकिन वहां एक भी इलैक्ट्रीसिटी पोल नहीं लगा? जब मेरी कांस्टीटयूएंसी में एक भी पोल नहीं लगा, तो मैं जानना चाहता हूं कि वे पोल कहां लगाए गए हैं? इसके तहत बिजली पहुंचाने की जब बात आई, तो चूंकि हमारे यहां मिलीटेंसी है, इसलिए वहां काम करने के लिए कुछ डिस्टि्रक्ट्स, कुछ लोकल लोगों को दे दिए। एक ने कहा कि इस काम को एन.एच.पी.सी. करेगी। एन.एच.पी.सी. वाले तीन-चार महीने पहले देखने आए थे। उसके बाद से आज तक वे हमें दिखे नहीं कि वे कहां हैं, वे बिजली कब लगाएंगे? पैसा अगर आपने दिया है, उसे यदि कोई यूटीलाइज नहीं करता, इस्तेमाल नहीं करता, उसके अनुसार काम नहीं करता, तो आपका रोल बनता है कि आप एक्शन लें। अदरवाइज ऐसे नहीं चलेगा। मैं आपके इस बिल की ताईद करता हूं और जो मैंने कहा है, उसकी तरफ ध्यान दिया जाए। [s43]  
 

[r44]  

 

SHRI KINJARAPU YERRANNAIDU ( SRIKAKULAM ): Madam, Chairperson, I rise to support the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2005.  I appreciate the hon. Minister for bringing these three important amendments through this Bill.  Originally, the Electricity Act, 2003, was introduced in the Lok Sabha in August 2001. Then it was referred to the Standing Committee and then the legislation was passed by both the House of Parliament. It came into effect on 10.6.2003. So, we have completed four years. Has the objective of the Act fulfilled in the last four years?  Was there any review?  If so, the hon. Minister has to clarify it. Based on the Act, we have framed a National Electricity Policy.  The main objectives of this Policy aim at accelerated development of power sector, providing supply of electricity to all areas and protecting interest of the consumers and other stake holders.  The other objectives include – access to electricity for all household in the next five years; availability of power; demand to be fully met by 2012; energy peaking shortages to be overcome; spinning reserves to be available; supply of reliable and quality power of satisfied standards in an efficient manner and at reasonable rates; per capita availability of electricity to be increased to over 1000 units by 2012; financial turnover and commercial viability of electricity sector; and protection of consumer interest. We have introduced such reforms in the telecom sector, airline sector and in electricity sector also.  After the introduction of reforms in the telecom sector, we have given licences to the private people.  With the competition, there is drastic reduction in the tariff.  The consumers are very happy after the introduction of reforms in the IT and even in telecom sector.  Now with the announcement of Open Sky Policy, so many private players are there in the airlines sector also.  Now there is a lot of reduction in the air fare also.  Even the common man is traveling by flight due to cheaper rates. We had introduced this Act four years ago and we had framed a National Electricity Policy. But the tariff is increasing year by year.  We have not achieved the desired results in this field.   The Government of India and the Ministry of Power should take initiatives to reduce the tariff.  It should be affordable to the poorest of the poor.  Then only there is some meaning of the reforms process.  But that has not happened.  Therefore, the Minister should take necessary action. Previously, there was no mention which Government has to take care of the village electrification as well as household electrification. Now there is an amendment to Section 6 saying that both the Government of India and the State Governments should take care of this.  I appreciate it.  So, a lot of money is being provided by the Government of India to the States for the rural electrification and also for household electrification. Regarding theft, in the year 2002, there was 50 per cent theft.[R45]  

            Now, it has been reduced to 33 per cent. Even the 33 per cent is not comparable to world standards. In some countries, the losses owing to distribution, transmission and theft is just around 7 to 10 per cent. If we could achieve that target, then only we would be able to provide cheap power to the consumers. Even after having introduced these measures, the Government is providing a subsidy to the tune of Rs. 15,000 crore to the States. I would like to request the hon. Minister that instead of giving subsidy in this form, it would be better if the subsidy is given directly to the farmers by way of providing ISI pumps and such things. By using such tools, the farmers can do their farming activities with lesser consumption of electricity and in this way, it would help save a lot of power. Some companies are now producing bulbs that consume less power, but the common men are not able to purchase them owing to higher costs. The Government can think of subsiding such bulbs which, in turn, would help in lesser consumption of power. The Andhra Pradesh Government was awarded the highest CRYSL rating for the steps taken for reduction of distribution and transmission losses. The reforms that were introduced in the power sector during the TDP regime has yielded good results. Andhra Pradesh was the first State to take the initiative for reduction of losses owing to transmission and distribution. The hon. Minister is now proposing an amendment to Section 151 of the present Act. The Government of Andhra Pradesh have already introduced these reforms to curb theft and preventing losses owing to transmission and distribution. Heavy penalty has been suggested for thefts. This is one reason as to why we have got such a good CRYSL rating. Sir, different States have different footings in regard to the Rajiv Gandhi Grammen Vidyutikaran Yojana. Some States have electrified more villages and some States have electrified lesser number of villages. The amount of money to be given to a State should depend upon the need of the State. The distribution of fund under this Scheme should not be erratic. The backward States like Bihar, Orissa would have to be given more funds. The States like Punjab and Haryana have electrified 80 to 90 per cent of the villages; whereas in States like Orissa and Bihar not even 50 per cent of the villages have been electrified. Therefore, the amount of money that has to be allocated should depend upon the number of villages electrified. Something of this kind should be devised for releasing money to the States under this programme and then only the States will endeavour to electrify more villages. With these words, I support the amendments proposed to the Act. PROF. M. RAMADASS ( PONDICHERRY ): Respected Chairperson, I rise to support the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2005. It tries to address some of the issues confronting the critical electricity sector in this country. I should appreciate the hon. Minister for bringing this amending Bill before this august House. As you would know, electricity is an essential ingredient not only of individuals but also of the economy. The development of an economy depends on uninterrupted supply of electricity and it is the duty of the Government to provide this supply of electricity to agriculture, to industry and also to various other sectors. But unfortunately, in this country, supply has always been lagging behind demand. Therefore, there are a number of issues. But all the issues cannot be solved by the amendment of a Bill. As has been mentioned by our learned colleague, the National Electricity Policy has got laudable objectives but these objectives are not sought to be achieved by this Bill. But this Bill has got only a limited objective. So, keeping this objective in view, we should see that this Bill tries to address some of the major limitations confronting the electricity sector. [R46]  

  18.00 hrs. 

As many hon. Members have indicated, one of the most important objectives of this Amendment Bill is to spread electricity to rural areas and hitherto, the State Governments  were given the responsibility of providing rural electricity.  But, in spite of all the efforts of the Central Government in canvassing for electricity in rural areas, the State Governments  were not able to do much in this regard. MADAM CHAIRMAN :  It is 6 p.m. now.   I have a list of eight more Members to speak on this Bill. If the House agrees, the time of the House may be extended by an hour. SEVERAL HON. MEMBERS:  Yes. SHRI KINJARAPU YERRANNAIDU :  Madam, what about zero hour then? MADAM CHAIRMAN:  We will extend the time of the House by an hour and then let us see to it. PROF. M. RAMADASS : Therefore, the state of rural electrification is awfully bad.  Statistics show that there is inter-State variations in the availability of electricity. According to statistics as on May, 2006,  the percentage of electrified villages in the country is only 79.5 and the percentage of households electrified in the rural areas is only 44 per cent.  But when you take States like Bihar, only 5 per cent of the households have electricity and that too, for an hour or two and totally, there is no reliability of electricity in such areas. In States like UP, Jharkhand, Assam, Orissa  and West Bengal, only less than 20 per cent of the households have assured electricity supply for some time. Therefore, the State Governments are unable to ensure the supply and hence, the Central Government will have to step in.  That is why, the Common Minimum Programme has said that the Central Government would increasingly participate in the rural electrification programme and thus, they have brought about the Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Vidyutkarn  Yojana providing for Rs. 16,225 crores with a view to supporting the States to increase the electricity infrastructure and electrification of households with a provision of 90 per cent capital subsidy. But even after all this, it has not been possible for the Government to achieve its target. Therefore, there needs to be a constitutional commitment on the part of the Central Government that it would also associate with the State Governments in the pursuit of the supply of electricity and this is being achieved accomplished by this Bill. This is the major advantage of this Bill. The second point is with regard to subsidy.  In a poor country like India, most of the consumers are unable to bear the increasing cost of electricity and they will have to be provided subsidy. But who will bear the subsidy is the question.  The State Governments cannot provide subsidy and therefore, the affluent sections will have to bear the burden of the electricity cost on their shoulders.  But then it was felt that if you put this burden on some of the manufacturing sectors or industrial sector, their development will also be curbed. We are living in a competitive society where electricity is an important input and therefore, the cost has to be reduced and the subsidy has also to be reduced.  Although we thought of eliminating the subsidies, the Standing Committee felt that it should be reduced and the Bill tries to seek this objective also.  But, at the same time, the Government  should attempt to target the person to whom the subsidy has to be given. It should not be indiscriminatory but targeting of subsidy is essential. Secondly, the State Government, through Regulatory Commissions, should evolve a proper cross subsidy policy so that the entire burden of subsidy does not fall on the industrial sector which is now zooming up. We have got 13 to 14 per cent growth in the manufacturing sector which is because of the various dynamic forces operating and these dynamic forces should not be  curbed on account of this. The third important objective is, this Bill gives wider powers to police to enforce law by curbing theft of electricity.  It is stated that 18 to 62 per cent of electricity loss is occurring at the distribution and transmission stage. Only 10 per cent is caused by natural factors. The remaining percentage is caused by unnatural factors which includes theft of electricity which is a major factor.  Therefore, hitherto, the police has to intervene and has to come to the Central Government to get the permission. But today, we provide suo motu authority to the police.  We are constituting a special court for this purpose. Theft of electricity will become non-bailable and there will be disconnection of electricity and all that. [MSOffice47]  

Therefore, this is an important and salient feature of this Bill. In all these respects, anyone would be able to appreciate and accept it.  But at the same time this is not going to solve the problems that we are facing.  Therefore, the Government will have to be very careful in one aspect, namely the generation of electricity. Although the Government, with electricity reforms, is embarking on the course of augmentation of electricity supply in the country, still a large number of restrictions and controls are confronting this industry.  Therefore, licence raj still continues in the power sector.  Therefore, the hon. Minister should take earnest steps in this regard.  Otherwise, the process of rural electrification, providing cross subsidy, preventing theft become meaningless.  Unless there is electricity generation, there is no point in providing subsidy, and there is no point in increasing the rural coverage. Therefore, the basic point is we have to augment the supply.  We have to invite the private companies by giving them incentives and by creating conducive climate so that generation of electricity becomes possible. … (Interruptions) The demand for power is accelerating today because the economy is surging at the rate of nine per cent.  Electricity is required by the industry and by the agriculture.  But the supply is woefully inadequate.  So, whatever power is available, it will go to non-agriculture and non-rural areas.  Therefore, generation will have to be taken care of. As our learned friend, Shri K. Yerrannaidu said, tariff structure should be clearly earmarked by taking into account both direct and cross subsidies. Conservation of electricity is as good as producing electricity. So, we should evolve modern methods of conserving electricity and ensuring accountability at the level of Electricity Boards so that this precious input is distributed to everybody and it becomes an essential aspect of the development of our country.  I hope that our dynamic Minister would be able to take all the initiatives required in this regard. The National Electricity Policy may also be reviewed in case it is warranted. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Madam Chairman, I may please be permitted to speak from this seat. MADAM CHAIRMAN :  Yes, you can. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Madam, I support the Bill. I would like to make some suggestions to the hon. Minister. The salient feature of this Bill is now the Central Government is going to be the in joint venture with the State Government to provide electricity to all the villages and hamlets.  So, I support it.  I support the other provisions, like the gradual reduction of the cross subsidy, empowerment of policy to deal effectively with power theft, etc. We intend to provide electricity as an infrastructure to all the villages and to all the houses.  But how to do this? Where is the electricity? In the last Budget, I think, only Rs. 300 crore have been provided for electricity generation.  It is a pittance.  Probably, the Government must have thought that private sector will pitch in for generation of electricity.  I shall like to have a reply from the hon. Minister, while he replies, as to how he is going to generate electricity so that it could be provided to all the villages and all the houses. I am having the Report of the Standing Committee on Energy with me.  It cautions the Government thus: I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister to one important issue. There was a power-project proposed some time back known as the Loktak Downstream Project, which is a 90 MW project costing around Rs. 420 crore. This is a much awaited project, but the Power Ministry is trying to bulldoze the Tipaimukh Hydel Project instead of taking up this project. This step is very much opposed by the people. I would like to request the hon. Minister to kindly expedite the implementation of the Loktak Downstream Project. MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: Next speaker is Shri Ganesh Singh. I would be able to give you only two minutes to speak on this issue. He is the last speaker to speak on this issue. श्री गणेश सिंह ( सतना ) : àÉÉxÉxÉÉÒªÉ ={ÉÉvªÉFÉ àÉcÉänªÉ, àÉÉxÉxÉÉÒªÉ àÉÆjÉÉÒ VÉÉÒ xÉä ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ (ºÉÆ¶ÉÉävÉxÉ) ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE, 2005, VÉÉä ªÉcÉÆ |ÉºiÉÖiÉ ÉÊBÉEªÉÉ cè, =ºÉ {É® àÉé ¤ÉcÖiÉ BÉEàÉ ¶É¤nÉå àÉå +É{ÉxÉÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ ®JÉxÉÉ SÉÉciÉÉ cÚÆ*  ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE BÉEÉÒ vÉÉ®É 6 àÉå ÉÊnªÉÉ MÉªÉÉ cè ÉÊBÉE BÉEäxp A´ÉÆ ®ÉVªÉ ºÉ®BÉEÉ® nÉäxÉÉå ÉÊàÉãÉBÉE® +É¤É MÉÉÆ´ÉÉå BÉEÉä ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ näxÉä BÉEÉ |ÉªÉÉºÉ BÉE®åMÉÉÒ* ¤É½ÉÒ JÉÖ¶ÉÉÒ BÉEÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ cè ÉÊBÉE 60 ´É­ÉÉç ¤ÉÉn ºÉ®BÉEÉ® BÉEÉä ªÉc ªÉÉn +ÉÉªÉÉ ÉÊBÉE MÉÉÆ´ÉÉå BÉEÉä £ÉÉÒ càÉå ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ BÉEÉÒ ºÉàÉºªÉÉ ºÉä UÖ]BÉEÉ®É ÉÊnãÉÉxÉÉ cè* ªÉc <xÉBÉEÉ º´ÉÉMÉiÉ ªÉÉäMªÉ BÉEnàÉ cè* ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE àÉå ={É£ÉÉäBÉDiÉÉ {ÉFÉ BÉEÉä iÉÉä BÉEÉxÉÚxÉÉÒ ºÉÉÒàÉÉ àÉå ®JÉÉ MÉªÉÉ cè, ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ VÉÉä ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉ ºÉÆºlÉÉAÆ cé, ÉÊVÉxÉBÉEä àÉÉvªÉàÉ ºÉä ={É£ÉÉäBÉDiÉÉ+ÉÉäÆ BÉEÉä ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ |ÉnÉxÉ BÉEÉÒ VÉÉiÉÉÒ cè, =xÉBÉEÉÒ BÉDªÉÉ ÉÊVÉààÉänÉÉÊ®ªÉÉÆ cé, =xÉBÉEÉä <ºÉ ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE ºÉä ¤ÉÉc® ®JÉÉ MÉªÉÉ cè* <ºÉÉÊãÉA àÉÖZÉä ãÉMÉiÉÉ cè ÉÊBÉE ªÉc +ÉÉÊvÉÉÊxÉªÉàÉ àÉå +ÉÉè® ºÉÆ¶ÉÉävÉxÉ BÉE®xÉä BÉEÉÒ VÉ°ô®iÉ cè* ªÉc ºÉcÉÒ BÉEcÉ´ÉiÉ cè: “कोई तरस रहा उजियारे को, कोई सूरज बांधे फिरता है।” आज भी लाखों की संख्या में गांव ऐसे हैं जहां बिजली अभी नहीं पहुंची है। यह प्राथमिकता पहले से तय होनी चाहिए थी कि सभी गांवों को विद्युत व्यवस्था से जोड़ा जा सके। हमारे ग्रामीण क्षेत्र में सबसे बड़ी संख्या में किसान रहते हैं। किसानों को विद्युत की उतनी ही आवश्यकता है जितना उद्योगों को बिजली आवश्यक है। लेकिन किसानों को जो बिजली दी जाती है, जब उनको जरुरत होती है, तब उनको समय पर बिजली नहीं मिलती, पूरी क्षमता की बिजली नहीं मिलती। किसानों को पूरी बिजली मिले कभी भी इस तरह का कानूनी प्रावधान नहीं किया गया। इसलिए हमारा निवेदन है कि किसानों के लिए बिजली देने का कानूनी प्रावधान बनना चाहिए कि इतने घंटे हम किसानों को बिजली देंगे। ट्रांसफॉर्मर जले हुए हैं, लाइनें टूटी हुई हैं, इसके बावजूद भी किसानों से बिजली का बिल वसूला जा रहा है, वह भी बढ़ी हुई दरों पर वसूला जा रहा है। यह देश कृषि प्रधान देश होने के नाते किसान की इस देश के उत्पादन में बहुत ही महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका है। ऐसी स्थिति में किसान को निर्धारित समय पर बिजली मिले, ऐसा भी प्रावधान होना चाहिए। आज किसान जब बिजली का बिल जमा नही कर पाता है तो उसे जेल जाना पड़ता है। मैं पूछना चाहता हूं कि ऐसा क्यों? बड़े-बड़े कारखानों वालों की ओर करोड़ों रुपये बकाया हैं, उनके लिए ऐसा कोई भी प्रावधान नहीं है लेकिन जब भी छोटा किसान या आम उपभोक्ता जब भी समय पर बिजली का बिल जमा नहीं कर पाता है, किन्हीं कारणोंवश, भले ही वहां लाइन ठीक नहीं थी, उसके बावजूद भी बिल जा रहा है और वह बिल जमा नहीं कर पाया तो उसे जेल भी जाना पड़ रहा है और पैसे भी जमा करने पड़ते है । एक अपराध के लिये दो-दो सजायें क्यों? मेरा माननीय मंत्री जी से निवेदन है क विद्युत (संशोधन) विधेयक में इस तरह का प्रावधान करें ताकि किसानों को प्राथमिकता आधार पर बिजली मिल सके और एक समय सीमा के अंदर गांवों में बिजली दी जा सके। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, अंत में एक निवेदन यह करूंगा कि मध्य प्रदेश राज्य को केन्द्र सरकार ने इंटरफ्रीक्वैंसी की श्रेणी में डाल दिया है, मेरी समझ में नहीं आता कि यह निर्णय एकदम क्यों ले लिया गया। आज मध्य प्रदेश ही नही, बल्कि देश के कई राज्य बिजली संकट से पीडित हैं। ऐसी हालत में उन्हें केन्द्र सरकार की मदद की जरूरत है। कटौती करने से काम नहीं चलने वाला है। हम लोग हमेशा से इस बात की मांग करते रहे हैं कि मध्य प्रदेश को बिजली संकट से उबारने व्ाे लिये केन्द्र सरकार की मदद की जरूरत है। आपका सहयोग चाहिये और इसे इंटरफ्रीक्वैंसी से बाहर निकालें। विद्युत मंत्री ( श्री सुशील कुमार शिंदे ) : उपाध्यक्ष जी, विद्युत (संशोधन) विधेयक, २००५ पर पिछले दो दिन से चर्चा चल रही है। मैं सभी ३० माननीय सदस्यों के भाषण गौर से सुन रहा था। ऐसा बहुत कम अवसर आता है जब किसी मंत्री और उसके विभाग की ज्यादा टीका-टिप्पणी न होती हो। सभी माननीय़ सदस्यों ने अभिनन्दन किया है और इस बिल के समर्थन में कहा है, इससे मेरी जिम्मेदारी और बढ़ जाती है। यदि कोई माननीय सदस्य इस पर टीका-टिप्पणी करता या विरोध करता तो बात अलग रहती लेकिन उन्होंने कहा है कि डिपार्टमेंट ने अच्छा काम किया है और हमारे साथ जो काम करते हैं, उनकी जिम्मेदारी भी दुगनी हो जाती है, इंट्रोस्पैक्शन के वक्त आती है। मैं समझता हूं कि दोनों ओर के माननीय सदस्यो ने बहुत अच्छे भाषण दिये हैं, तो मुझे ज्यादा एक्सप्लेनेशन देने की जरूरत नहीं है। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, माननीय सदस्यों ने एक सवाल किया कि जब स्टैंडिंग कमेटी की सिफारिशें आ गई थी तो इस बिल को इतने दिन तक क्यों रोका गया। मैं उन्हें बताना चाहता हूं कि जब मई, २००६ में स्टैंडिंग कमेटी की सिफारिशें आ गईं, उसके बाद ग्रुप ऑफ मनिस्टर्स की एक कमेटी अपाइंट की गई। फिर, कई राज्यों ने इस दिशा में जो अच्छे काम किये थे, उनके बारे में विचार किया गया। इनमें कर्नाटक, आन्ध्रा प्रदेश और पश्चिम बंगाल मुख्य हैं। जब ग्रुप ऑफ मनिस्टर्स मिले तो उन बातों का समावेश किया गया, इसके अलावा जो अच्छी बातें थीं, उनका भी समावेश कर दिया गया। उन सब सुझावों पर अप्रूवल के लिये कैबिनेट के पास जाना था। तत्पश्चात् फरवरी, २००७ में नोटिस निकला और आज डिसकशन के लिये यह बिल आपके सामने आया है। यह बड़ी खुशी की बात है कि स्टैंडिंग कमेटी ने जो सिफारिशें कीं, उन पर सभी सदस्यों ने अपनी सहमति दी है। परन्तु, इसके साथ कुछ कठिनाइयां भी होती हैं। प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत का भाषण मुझे इसलिये अच्छा लगा क्योंकि उनकी बातों से ऐसा नहीं लग रहा था कि कोई विरोधी दल से अपनी बात कह रहा हो। जब राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युत योजना में काम अच्छा हो रहा हो तो बिजली मिलनी चाहिये। कई बार राजीव गांधी के नाम से लोगों को एलर्जी होती है लेकिन माननीय सदस्यों की बातों से मुझे ऐसा कुछ नहीं लगा। एक राष्ट्रीय नेता प्रधानमंत्री बना हो, चाहे किसी भी दल का हो, जब उसके नाम पर कोई योजना बनती है तो उसे सब लोग स्वीकार करते हैं...( व्यवधान)[s57]  

 19.00 hrs. 

उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : àÉé, àÉÉxÉxÉÉÒªÉ ºÉnxÉ BÉEä vªÉÉxÉ àÉå ãÉÉxÉÉ SÉÉciÉÉ cÚÆ ÉÊBÉE +ÉÉVÉ ºÉnxÉ BÉEÉÒ BÉEÉªÉÇ´ÉÉcÉÒ ºÉÉªÉÆBÉEÉãÉ 7.00 ¤ÉVÉä iÉBÉE ¤ÉfÃÉ<Ç MÉ<Ç lÉÉÒ* <ºÉ ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE BÉEä {ÉÉÉÊ®iÉ cÉäxÉä BÉEä ¤ÉÉn ¶ÉÚxªÉ-BÉEÉãÉ BÉEÉÒ SÉSÉÉÇ £ÉÉÒ cÉäxÉÉÒ cè* +É£ÉÉÒ àÉÆjÉÉÒ VÉÉÒ BÉEÉä ÉÊ´ÉvÉäªÉBÉE {É® cÖ<Ç SÉSÉÉÇ BÉEÉ VÉ´ÉÉ¤É £ÉÉÒ näxÉÉ cè* +ÉiÉ& àÉé ºÉnxÉ BÉEÉÒ ºÉcàÉÉÊiÉ ºÉä ºÉnxÉ BÉEÉÒ BÉEÉªÉÇ´ÉÉcÉÒ àÉÆjÉÉÒ àÉcÉänªÉ BÉEä VÉ´ÉÉ¤É +ÉÉè® ¶ÉÚxªÉ BÉEÉãÉ BÉEÉÒ SÉSÉÉÇ cÉäxÉä iÉBÉE ¤ÉfÃÉiÉÉ cÚÆ* 
 

श्री सुशील कुमार शिन्दे : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, चूंकि सदस्यों ने इस विधेयक पर बोलते हुए मुझे बहुत सहयोग दिया है, इसलिए मैं भी विधेयक पर उठाए गए प्रश्नों के विस्तार से उत्तर न देकर, केवल तीन-चार प्रमुख बातें ही बताना चाहता हूं। एक बात हमारे बहुत सीनियर सदस्य, श्री वरकला राधाकृष्णन जी ने कही है। वे राज्य की विधान सभा में स्पीकर भी रहे हैं। उन्होंने कहा कि पॉवर सब्जैक्ट कन्करेंट लिस्ट में है। जो असली बात है, वह यही है कि यह विषय कन्करेंट लिस्ट में है। इस पर भाषण करना ठीक है, क्योंकि यह राज्य सरकार की रेस्पांसबलिटी होती है, लेकिन पूरे देश में ऐसा हो गया है कि सेंट्रल गवर्नमेंट, जो सप्लीमेंट्री काम करती है, उसकी रेस्पांसबलिटी स्टेट की बनी हुई है। मैं बताना चाहता हूं कि पिछले १० सालों में पॉवर कैपेसिटी एडीशन का काम ही नहीं हुआ। माननीय सदस्यों ने ही इस बात को कहा, मुझे इसकी बहुत खुशी है। चाहे किसी भी पार्टी की सरकार रही, हम बार-बार मॉनीटर करते रहे, मैं किसी पार्टी को दोष नहीं देना चाहता हूं। यदि हमने बिजली निर्माण की एडीशनल कैपेसिटी डैवलप की होती, तो आज हमारे पास ७८ हजार मैगावाट बिजली होती। यदि हम पिछले १० सालों में एडीशनल बिजली निर्माण की कैपेसिटी बढ़ाते, तो आज हम इस मामले में सरप्लस कंट्री बन जाते, लेकिन इस बारे में हमने कभी नहीं सोचा। इसमें कई गलतियां हुई हैं। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं जब व्यू ले रहा था, तो मैंने देखा कि दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में जो टार्गेट फिक्स किया था, उसमें किसी राज्य का वहां ५ हजार करोड़ रुपए का डैफसिट है, शार्टेज है। वह राज्य आता है और ३ हजार की मान्यता लेकर जाता है और उसमें से केवल ५०० या १००० करोड़ रुपए बिजली निर्माण पर खर्च करने का काम करता है। इस प्रकार यदि चलेगा, तो बिजली का काम कैसे पूरा होगा? इस प्रकार से वह बैकलॉग बढ़ता गया। मैं पिछले छ: महीने से प्रयास कर रहा हूं। प्रदेश के बिजली मंत्रियों को हमने यहां बुलाया, प्रदेश के चीफ सैक्रेट्री और सैक्रेट्रीज को बुलाया और सब से कहा कि जो आपके राज्य का डैफीसिट होगा, उससे ५ परसेंट अधिक टार्गेट आपको लेना होगा। अभी हमारे सदस्य महोदय ने कहा कि टारगेट लेने के बाद भी, उनकी जो दिक्कतें हैं, वे भी केन्द्र सरकार ने देखी हैं। उनके पास पैसा नहीं है। इसलिए हमने यह तय किया है कि हमारा जो पावर फायनेंस कार्पोरेशन है, रूरल इलैक्ट्रीफिकेशन कॉर्पोरेशन है, उनसे लोन एडवांस कर के हम राज्यों को देंगे। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, एक तरफ हम पी.एल.एफ. बढ़ाने का काम करते हैं, हमारे एक माननीय सदस्य ने कहा था कि जो हमारे पुराने संयंत्र हैं, उनकी कैपेसिटी बढ़ाने की हमारे पास क्या योजना है? मैं उन्हें बताना चाहता हूं कि उसके लिए हमारे पास ए.पी.डी.आर.पी. की योजना है। उसके लिए हम बहुत पैसे देते हैं। उसके अन्तर्गत कई राज्यों को हमने इतना पैसा दे दिया है कि उन्होंने उसे खर्च ही नहीं किया। आज प्रश्न-काल में मेरा एक प्रश्न था, जिसमें मेरे पास ये आंकड़े थे कि किस राज्य ने कितना पैसा खर्च नहीं किया, लेकिन इस समय वे फिगर्स मेरे पास नहीं हैं। हम पी.एल.एफ. बढ़ा रहे हैं। हमारे पास बिजली कम है, इसलिए हमने एन.टी.पी.सी. की ८९ से ९३ परसेंट तक बिजली बढ़ाने की सूचना दी है - इसलिए कि गर्मी के दिनों में हमें बिजली लोगों को देनी है, लेकिन कई जगह मैंने देखा और मैं कल ही, एक जगह जाकर आया हूं, उसका मैं यहां नाम बताना उचित नहीं समझता हूं, वहां जो मशीनें चलती है, उसका पी.एल.एफ. १५ और १७ परसेंट है। यदि पी.एल.एफ. १५ और १७ परसेंट रहेगा, तो बिजली कैसे मिल सकेगी? इसके लिए प्रयास करना जरूरी है। हम खुद व्यू ले रहे हैं। मेरे मंत्रालाय के सैक्रेट्री, सभी अधिकारी और जितने भी हमारे पी.एस.यूज. हैं, वे भी व्यू ले रहे हैं, ताकि सभी देशवासियों को बिजली मिल सके। उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, वर्ष २००९ तक देश के हर गांव में राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण योजना के तहत बिजली देने का प्रयास हम कर रहे हैं। देश में इस समय १ लाख २५ हजार गांव हैं। इनमें से २५ हजार गांवों में बिजली देने का काम नॉन-कन्वेंशनल मनिस्ट्री कर रही है। आपने जो १६ हजार का फिगर कहा था, मैं बताना चाहता हूं कि १६ हजार नहीं, बल्कि ३९ हजार विलेजेज इस समय तक इलेक्ट्रीफाइड हो गए हैं। दसवीं पंचवर्षीय योजना में केवल दो साल में हो गये हैं और पांच हजार करोड़ रुपये पूंजी हमें मिली थी। मैंने अभी वित्त मंत्री को चिट्ठी लिखी है और उनसे चर्चा भी की है। प्लानिंग कमीशन के साथ मैं इस वीक में बैठ रहा हूं कि हमें २५ हजार करोड़ और उससे भी ज्यादा जो पैसा हमारा लगने वाला है, एकदम से हमें देना है, इस तरह की मैंने उनसे विनती की है। [r58]  

 यह गरीब लोगों का, देश का काम है, हम आपकी बात से भी सहमत हैं कि हमें स्वतंत्र हुए ६० साल हो गये, लेकिन आज ग्रामीण इलाके में बिजली नहीं है। इसका दुख हमें भी है, क्योंकि ये जो लोग स्वतंत्रता देखते हैं, उनका स्वातंय कहां है। उनके लिए महात्मा गांधी जी कहते थे, ‘Bring unto the last’ VÉÉä +ÉÉnàÉÉÒ +ÉÆvÉä®ä àÉå cè, =ºÉä |ÉBÉEÉ¶É àÉå ãÉÉ+ÉÉä* ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ <ºÉ ¤ÉÉiÉ BÉEÉÒ JÉÖ¶ÉÉÒ cè ÉÊBÉE ÉÊBÉEºÉxÉä ABÉD] BÉEÉÒ ¶ÉÖ°ô+ÉÉiÉ BÉEÉÒ, =ºÉ bè{lÉ àÉå àÉé xÉcÉÓ VÉÉ>óÆMÉÉ, ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ ÉÊBÉEºÉÉÒ xÉä iÉÉä ®ÉVÉÉÒ´É MÉÉÆvÉÉÒ OÉÉàÉÉÒhÉ ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉÉÒBÉE®hÉ ªÉÉäVÉxÉÉ BÉEÉÒ ¶ÉÖ°ô+ÉÉiÉ BÉEÉÒ +ÉÉè® =ºÉä ABÉD] BÉEä °ô{É àÉå ãÉÉªÉä* BÉEä´ÉãÉ <iÉxÉÉ cÉÒ xÉcÉÓ, c® MÉÉÆ´É àÉå {ÉcãÉä BÉDªÉÉ cÉäiÉÉ lÉÉ ÉÊBÉE OÉÉàÉÉÒhÉ ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉÉÒBÉE®hÉ àÉå càÉÉ®ä {ÉÉºÉ BÉÖE]ÉÒ® VªÉÉäÉÊiÉ VÉèºÉÉÒ ¤ÉcÖiÉ ºÉÉÒ ªÉÉäVÉxÉÉAÆ lÉÉÓ, ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ OÉÉàÉ iÉBÉE càÉÉ®É ABÉE JÉà£ÉÉ VÉÉiÉÉ lÉÉ +ÉÉè® ´ÉcÉÆ JÉà£ÉÉ ãÉMÉÉiÉä lÉä +ÉÉè® BÉEciÉä lÉä ÉÊBÉE OÉÉàÉÉÒhÉ ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉÉÒBÉE®hÉ cÉä MÉªÉÉ* +ÉÉVÉ =ºÉ iÉ®c ºÉä xÉcÉÓ cè* +É¤É =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É àÉå ÉÊ¤ÉVÉãÉÉÒ VÉÉxÉÉÒ SÉÉÉÊcA, OÉÉàÉ {ÉÆSÉÉªÉiÉ àÉå VÉÉxÉÉÒ SÉÉÉÊcA, =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É BÉEä ºBÉÚEãÉ àÉå VÉÉxÉÉÒ SÉÉÉÊcA, =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É BÉEÉÒ ÉÊbº{ÉåºÉ®ÉÒ àÉå VÉÉxÉÉÒ SÉÉÉÊcA* VÉÉä =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É BÉEä ¤ÉÉÒ.{ÉÉÒ.AãÉ. cé, =xÉBÉEÉä |ÉEÉÒ BÉExÉèBÉD¶ÉxÉ ÉÊnªÉÉ VÉÉxÉÉ SÉÉÉÊcA +ÉÉè® 10 {É®ºÉå] BÉEÉ £ÉÉÒ VÉ¤É iÉBÉE xÉcÉÓ cÉäiÉÉ cè, VÉ¤É iÉBÉE =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É BÉEÉ ºÉ®{ÉÆSÉ ÉÊºÉMxÉäSÉ® xÉcÉÓ BÉE®iÉÉ cè, iÉ¤É iÉBÉE =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É àÉå càÉ °ô®ãÉ <ãÉèBÉD]ÅÉÒÉÊ{ÉEBÉEä¶ÉxÉ xÉcÉÓ cÖ+ÉÉ, AäºÉÉ ºÉàÉZÉiÉä cé +ÉÉè® VÉ¤É ºÉÉÌ]ÉÊ{ÉEBÉEä] ÉÊàÉãÉiÉÉ cè, iÉ£ÉÉÒ càÉ BÉEciÉä cé ÉÊBÉE <ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É àÉå °ô®ãÉ <ãÉèBÉD]ÅÉÒÉÊ{ÉEBÉEä¶ÉxÉ cÉä MÉªÉÉ cè* ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ càÉÉ®É BÉEcxÉÉ ABÉE cè ÉÊBÉE ABÉE {É®ºÉå] ÉÊcººÉÉ càÉxÉä ´ÉcÉÆ JÉSÉÇ BÉE®xÉä BÉEä ÉÊãÉA ®JÉÉ cè, =ºÉ MÉÉÆ´É àÉå, VÉcÉÆ ]ÅÉÆºÉ{ÉEÉàÉÇ® cè, MÉÉÆ´É VÉcÉÆ ¶ÉÖ°ô cÉäiÉÉ cè, ´ÉcÉÆ <iÉxÉÉ ÉÊãÉJÉxÉÉ SÉÉÉÊcA ÉÊBÉE ªÉc MÉÉÆ´É ®ÉVÉÉÒ´É MÉÉÆvÉÉÒ OÉÉàÉÉÒhÉ ÉÊ´ÉtÉÖiÉÉÒBÉE®hÉ ªÉÉäVÉxÉÉ àÉå |ÉBÉEÉ¶ÉàÉªÉ cÖ+ÉÉ cè* AäºÉÉ càÉÉ®É ABÉE ¤ÉÉäbÇ ´ÉcÉÆ ãÉMÉxÉÉ SÉÉÉÊcA, ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ ´Éc ¤ÉÉäbÇ ãÉMÉiÉÉ cÉÒ xÉcÉÓ* =ºÉBÉEä ÉÊãÉA £ÉÉÒ {ÉÚÆVÉÉÒ ®JÉÉÒ cè, AäºÉÉ xÉcÉÓ cè ÉÊBÉE =ºÉBÉEä ÉÊãÉA |ÉÉä´ÉÉÒVÉxÉ xÉcÉÓ cè* càÉÉ®ä ºÉnºªÉ ÉËºÉc ºÉÉc¤É cÆºÉ ®cä cé, VÉÉä ºÉcÉÒ ¤ÉÉiÉ cè* 

 अभी उत्तर प्रदेश के बारे में मेरे साथी कह रहे थे। उन्होंने अनपरा के बारे में कहा, हमारे दूसरे प्रोजैक्ट्स के बारे में कहा। यहां दादरी में जो गैस पर चलने वाला प्रोजैक्ट है, वह प्रोजैक्ट शुरू नहीं हुआ है। वह प्राइवेटाइजेशन में आ गया है। उसमें गैस अभी मिलने वाली ही नहीं है। जिसके पास गैस है, वह एग्रीमेंट कर रहा है और वह कहता है कि हम लाएंगे और वह लाता नहीं है। अभी २००८ तक वह गैस आने की कोई संभावना नहीं है। जो भी प्रोजैक्ट गैस पर आधारित है, जैसे आपके आन्ध्रा प्रदेश का हो गया या उत्तर प्रदेश के दादरी प्रोजैक्ट के बारे में मैं कह रहा था, जो आपने कह दिया था, लेकिन वहां शुरू नहीं हुआ है। हम तो प्रयास कर रहे हैं कि जो भी थोड़े प्रोजैक्ट्स हैं, आपके यहां गैस पर चलते हैं, वे स्पाट मार्केट पर गैस लेकर चला सकते हैं। जैसे ही मैं आया, तभी मई महीने में हमने आर्डर कर दिया कि स्पाट मार्केट से गैस ले लो, एल.एन.जी. ले लो और इन्हें चलाओ। ये ६ यूनिट्स हमारे चलते हैं, कोई राजस्थान में है, कोई उत्तर प्रदेश में है, ऐसा नहीं है कि एक ही पार्टी का राज चलता है, वहां चला रहे हैं, क्योंकि बिजली सब को चाहिए। यह बात सही है कि क्लीन बिजली देनी है, एफोर्डेबल बिजली देनी है, सस्ती बिजली देनी है, यह हमारा महत्वपूर्ण काम है। इसीलिए तो अल्ट्रा मैगा प्रोजैक्ट्स हम लाये हैं। अभी हमारे माननीय सदस्य यहां कह रहे थे, हमें १.१९ रुपये पर यूनिट बिजली २५ साल तक मिलेगी और ४००० मैगावाट के प्रोजैक्ट की कीमत २० हजार करोड़ रुपये की आज हो गई है। हमें इस बात की खुशी है कि दो प्रोजैक्ट्स चले गये, अभी ८ लाइन पर हैं। अभी कल मैं बिहार में जाकर ५०० मैगावाट बिजली का प्रोजैक्ट शुरू करके आया हूं।[R59]  

महाराष्ट्र का दाभोल प्रोजेक्ट नहीं चल रहा था और उसमें कई दिक्कतें थीं, लेकिन अब उसकी समस्याओं से भी छुटकारा हो गया है। इसके लिए गैस नहीं मिलती थी, तो हम इसे नाफ्था पर चला रहे हैं। यह कॉस्टली है। भारत सरकार ने नाफ्था पर टैक्स को भी कंडोन कर दिया है।इस तरह से सस्ते दामों पर बिजली देने का प्रयास हम हर तरह से कर रहे हैं। विशेषत: यह जो बिल क्रास सब्सिडी के लिए आया है, इसके लिए मैं धन्यवाद देना चाहूंगा कि इस पर थोड़ी चर्चा भी हो गयी। इस संबंध में राधाकृष्णन जी ने भी कहा था कि इसमें कुछ डफिकल्टीज हैं, यह बात सही है। मैं जब महाराष्ट्र मे चीफ मनिस्टर था, जिसको वे अनबन्डलिंग कहते हैं, मैं वह शब्द नहीं यूज नहीं करता हूं, मैं इसके लिए री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग शब्द यूज करता हूं, किसका अनबन्डलिंग करें, यह री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग का काम है। इसमें थोड़ी डफिकल्टी आने वाली है, लेकिन हमने इसे महाराष्ट्र में किया, वेस्ट बंगाल में किया, आंध्रा प्रदेश में किया और उसका फायदा हुआ। कुछ साथियों ने दिल्ली सरकार के बारे में पूछा कि उसकी सब्सिडी क्यों बच जाती है? री-स्ट्रक्चरिंग करने के बाद, १२ सौ करोड़ रूपए की सब्सिडी बची है।इसी प्रकार से महाराष्ट्र में इसे किया गया है और वैसे ही आंध्रा प्रदेश में किया गया।इसमें शुरू में तकलीफ तो होगी, जब यह नया-नया होता है, तो थोड़ी तकलीफ सहन करनी पड़ेगी, लेकिन हमने उसमें कोई स्टाफ नहीं लगाया है और उसकी एक्सटेंशन हम देते रहेंगे। अगर वास्तव में डफिकल्टी होगी, तो यह भी हमें सोचना चाहिए। केवल यह मिलता है, ऐसा कहकर एक्सटेंशन मांगते रहना भी गलत बात है। जहां डफिकल्टी हो, तो हम भी इस बात को समझते हैं और हम उन्हें मदद भी करेंगे, क्योंकि हम सारे देश को एक लाइन में लाना चाहते हैं। महोदय, जब मैं हिस्ट्री में जाता हूं, तो देखता हूं कि प्रेसीडेंट रूजवेल्ट ने वर्ष १९२५ में ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण का काम अमेरिका में शुरू किया था। इसमें शुरू में बहुत तकलीफ आयी थी और १५ सालों तक उनको आगे जाने का वक्त नहीं मिला, लेकिन अब वहां ग्रामीण विभाग में फ्रेंचाइज शुरू हो गया है। मुझे यह बोलते हुए प्रसन्नता है कि राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण में उत्तराखंड में फ्रेंचाइज का एक अभूतपूर्व काम हुआ। वहां औरतों की एक कमेटी फार्म हुयी। उस कमेटी ने सारा चार्ज ले लिया है और एक्स-सर्विसमैन, युवकों और विधवा महिलाओं, उन सभी को उन्होंने काम दिया है। राजीव गांधी विद्युतीकरण में जो बल्क इलेक्टि्रसिटी मिलती है और जो ओपन एक्सेज की बात कह रहे हैं, वह काम वहां काफी जबर्दस्त रूप से हुआ है, हमें इस बात की प्रसन्नता है और हम इसे पूरे देश में लाना चाहते हैं। यहां थेफ्ट के बारे में सभी ने कहा, ओपन एक्सेज आने से जो चोरी होती है, ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण में ओपन एक्सेज आने से चोरी कम हो जाएगी, क्योंकि देहात में मालूम है कि कौन चोरी करता है? इसी प्रकार से डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन में सिटी में मालूम हो जाएगा कि कौन चोरी करता है और किस तरह से करता है? महाराष्ट्र के भिवंडी में प्राइवेट को डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन को काम दे दिया गया है। वहां इसे चलाने वालों पर शुरू में बड़े डंडे पड़े, और लोगों को जख्मी किया गया, लेकिन अब वहां वे डटकर काम कर रहे हैं। वहां अब प्राफिट हो रहा है। इसका मतलब है कि वहां इतने दिनों से चोरी हो रही थी, लेकिन किसी को उन्हें पकड़ने की हिम्मत नहीं होती थी। हमने एक्ट में यह सब प्रोवीजन करके रखा है। चोरी के संबंध में भी प्रोवीजन हमने किया। आप अन-औथोराइज्ड की बात कह रहे हैं, इस बारे में कहना चाहूंगा कि जैसे किसी के घर या फैक्ट्री में बिजली है, लेकिन बगल वाली फैक्ट्री को वे बिजली दे देते हैं, वह अन-औथराइज्ड है। मैं कहना चाहूंगा कि ऐसे लोगों को पनिशमेंट जरूर होना चाहिए, उसको छोड़ना नहीं चाहिए। फैक्ट्री और घरों में बिजली देने की बात बहुत होती है और हमने इसे भी कानून में रखा है। इस तरह जो-जो प्रावधान में आ सकता है, जिससे देश की बिजली का कारोबार सुधर सकता है, उसके लिए ही हम यह कानून लाए हैं। [v60]  

            मैं ज्यादा बात नहीं करना चाहूंगा। ऐसा कहा गया है कि प्रशासकीय अधिकारियों को पकड़ें, उन पर भी केस कीजिए। इसमें अबेटमैंट का कानून है। यदि अबेटमैंट किया गया है तो बिल में उसके बारे में भी इंतजाम है। पहले केस लम्बे समय तक चलता था लेकिन जो नया कानून बनाया गया है, उसमें टाइम लमिट दी गई है। लमिटेड टाइम में पनिशमैंट हो जाएगी, यह बात सही है। मैं भी डर रहा था कि कई जगह पनिशमैंट ज्यादा हो जाती है। यदि कोई फैक्ट्री वाला दो-तीन बार बिजली चोरी करता है तो उसे सजा होती है। लेकिन यह कहकर कि यह कानून में है, एक एप्लीकेशन दे दी और तीस दिन के अंदर उसे बिजली सैंक्शन करें। कानून में जो लूपहोल था, उसे भी करैक्ट करने का काम किया गया है। जो व्यक्ति दो-दो, तीन-तीन बार गुनाह करता था, उसे कानून का सहारा था, बिजली लेने का मौका था। लेकिन अब उसे छ: महीने बिजली नहीं मिलेगी, ऐसा इंतजाम किया गया है। हमारे एटीएंडटी लॉसेज बहुत बढ़ रहे हैं। यह बात सही है कि पिछले साल, डेढ़ साल में एटीएंडटी लॉसेज ३ प्रतिशत कम हो गए हैं। यह अच्छा है लेकिन हम उसे १५ प्रतिशत तक लाना चाहते हैं। एक माननीय सदस्य ने कहा कि इससे बीस हजार करोड़ रुपये का नुकसान बच सकता है। बीस हजार करोड़ रुपये नहीं बल्कि उससे ज्यादा है और उससे बच सकते हैं। मैंने बार-बार इस हाउस में हाइड्रो इलेक्टि्रसिटी पॉलिसी के लिए कहा है। हाइड्रो इलैक्टि्रसिटी का कार्य बहुत डफिकल्ट जगह होता है। वहां कोई जाने के लिए तैयार नहीं होता। मैं सोच रहा था कि ६० साल में ज्यादा कार्य क्यों नहीं हुआ, सिर्फ २० प्रतिशत कार्य ही हुआ है। यदि आप प्राइवेटाइजेशन लाना चाहते हैं, उन्हें कुछ मिले बिना वह कैसे जाएंगे, क्योंकि बैंक में पैसा रखने से उन्हें इंटरेस्ट मिलता है। जब तक किसी इंटरप्रेन्योर को वहां जाने से ज्यादा पैसा नहीं मिलेगा, तब तक वह वहां नहीं जाएगा। हम ज्यादा कनसैशन देकर, एट्रैक्ट करने के बारे में सोच रहे हैं ताकि जो १ लाख, ३० हजार रुपये से ऊपर की बिजली हिमालय की रेंज में राह देख रही है, यदि हम उसे ला सकें तो बहुत सरप्लस हो सकती है। हमारे साथियों ने यहां करैक्ट असैसमैंट दिया। यहां समत के सभापति जी बैठे हुए हैं। उन्हें भी खुशी होगी कउनके द्वारा दी गई रिकमैंडेशन्स यहां पास हो रही हैं। इस बात की खुशी है कि उन्होंने करैक्ट असैसमैंट किया कि आज १४ हजार मेगावाट की शार्टेज है। लेकिन उसके लिए हमें रोज २१ हजार मेगावाट बिजली तैयार करनी पड़ेगी। हमें ७८ हजार का कैपेसिटी एडिशन करना पड़ेगा। तभी हम स्वयं पूर्ण हो सकेंगे। कैप्टिव के बारे में कहा गया कि ओपन एक्सैस में सहूलियत देनी है। उसके लिए आपने जो कहा, वही कानून है। महाराष्ट्र में जो केस हुआ, उससे सुप्रीम कोर्ट का निर्णय आया। हम कानून में ओपन एक्सैस का रास्ता बता रहे हैं। यदि ऐसा कोई लूपहोल होता तो उसे भी करैक्ट कर दिया गया है। अब डरने की बात नहीं है। अभी आप ओपन एक्सैस में पूना पैटर्न जैसा कार्य भी कर सकते हैं जिससे लोगों को सस्ते में बिजली मिल जाएगी। महोदय, मैं सभागृह का ज्यादा वक्त नहीं लेना चाहता। लेकिन जिस तरह सब सदस्यों ने अपनी भावना व्यक्त की, मैं उनसे सहमत हूं। आज भी यदि आपको कुछ गलत लगता हो, I am open minded to accept it. Thank you. श्री खारबेल स्वाईं ( बालासोर ) :  àÉéxÉä {ÉcãÉä ¤ÉiÉÉªÉÉ lÉÉ ÉÊBÉE =½ÉÒºÉÉ àÉå +ÉÉ{ÉxÉä BÉEà{ÉÉÒÉÊ]ÉÊ]´É ¤ÉÉÒÉËbMÉ BÉEä ÉÊãÉA BÉEcÉ cè, ãÉäÉÊBÉExÉ càÉÉ®É AàÉ+ÉÉäªÉÚ ºÉÉ<xÉ cÉä MÉªÉÉ cè* <ºÉ ¤ÉÉ®ä àÉå +ÉÉ{É ÉÊ®{ãÉÉ<Ç nÉÒÉÊVÉA* nÚºÉ®É, +ÉÉ{É A{ÉÉÒbÉÒ+ÉÉ®{ÉÉÒ BÉEä ÉÊãÉA VÉÉä {ÉèºÉä nä ®cä cé, BÉDªÉÉ ´Éc ]ÅÉÆºÉ{ÉEÉàÉÇ® ´ÉMÉè®c BÉEÉÒ ÉÊ®{ãÉäºÉàÉé] BÉEä ÉÊãÉA nä ®cä cé? हमें तो यह मालूम है कि वह पैसे गांव में बिजली देने के लिए है। मैंने यह भी कहा था कि आप एक फंड दीजिए जिससे इलैक्ट्रीसिटी के इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर का विकास हो सके। इस बारे में आपका क्या कहना है? तीसरा, आप हमारे स्टेट उड़ीसा को कब पैसे देंगे? अभी आपने उसे कुछ भी पैसा नहीं दिया। आपने सिर्फ दो डिस्टि्रक्ट के लिए २५ परसेंट ही पैसा दिया है। बाकी डिस्टि्रक्ट्स को आप कब पैसा दे रहे हैं? श्री सुशील कुमार शिन्दे :   ={ÉÉvªÉFÉ àÉcÉänªÉ, àÉé {ÉcãÉä <xÉBÉEä |É¶xÉ BÉEÉ VÉ´ÉÉ¤É  nä näiÉÉ cÚÆ* ...( ´ªÉ´ÉvÉÉxÉ) 

उपाध्यक्ष महोदय : आप सभी प्रश्नों का जवाब लॉस्ट में दे दीजिए। SHRI P. KARUNAKARAN ( KASARGOD ):  Sir, in my speech, I have pointed out that there is a sharp decline in power.  It was 148.6 megawatt from the Central pool to Kerala and now, it is reduced to 13.6 megawatt.  It is very sharp. Why is it so and will the Government take necessary steps to correct it? श्री भानु प्रताप सिंह वर्मा ( जालौन ) : माननीय मंत्री जी केन्द्र द्वारा जो राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण योजना चल रही है, वह बहुत अच्छी योजना है। मैं आपसे जानना चाहता हूं कि कुछ गांव ऐसे हैं जिनका विद्युतीकरण हो गया है लेकिन हरिजन बस्तियों में विद्युतीकरण नहीं हुआ है। क्या आप वहां भी इस योजना को लागू करेंगे? दूसरा, हमारे बुन्देलखंड क्षेत्र में तीन साल से पानी नहीं बरसा है। इस कारण किसान आत्महत्या कर रहे हैं। हमारा कहना है कि जिन किसानों के ज्यादा बिल हो गये हैं या जिन्हें बिजली नहीं मिली है और उनके बिल ज्यादा हो गये हैं, तो क्या उनकी समीक्षा करके आप उन्हें थोड़ी बहुत राहत देने की कोशिश करेंगे? SHRI K. FRANCIS GEORGE ( IDUKKI ):  The price of Central pool allocation has been raised from Rs. 7.45 to Rs. 9.45 and States like Kerala would not be able to bear it because the cost of buying power escalates.  As my colleague Shri Karunakaran has put it, Kerala is in a very difficult situation now and the cost of generating power has gone up. प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत ( अजमेर ) : उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं आपके माध्यम से जानना चाहता हूं कि कोटा और रावतभाटा में आणविक शक्ति से चलने वाले विद्युत उत्पादक यंत्र बार-बार बंद क्यों हो जाते हैं? श्री विजयेन्द्र पाल सिंह ( भीलवाड़ा ) :   उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मंत्री जी ने बहुत अच्छा जवाब दिया है। मैं केवल इतना पूछना चाहता हूं कि ट्रेडिंग की बात इलैक्ट्रीसिटी एक्ट २००३ में थी। कम्पीटिशन से वह पैसा कम होना चाहिए लेकिन वह बढ़ता जा रहा है। एक-एक स्टेट अपनी ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी लगाकर पर-यूनिट छ: रुपये में बेच रही है। इसका जवाब भी आपने नहीं दिया। SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO ( KALAHANDI ):   I want a clarification from the hon. Minister.  Today, NTPC, in energy conservation, has saved money worth Rs. 37 crore.  But they are not doing anything for the NTPC plants for their peripheral development and other works. My constituency, Kalahandi, which generates about 600 megawatts hydro power and supplies nearly 150 megawatts to Andhra Pradesh and other States does not have a proper 400 KV sub-station.  I have written to the Minister for a 132 KV sub-station at Bhavanipatna, the Headquarters of Kalahandi. SHRI SUSHIL KUMAR SHINDE : As regards the grid problem, I have already told the concerned Chairman to look into the problem.  He will be looking into it. I have received your application. About unallocated power, we never charge to the extent of Rs. 7.45.  I will have to inquire into it because both the Members of Kerala are putting this question.  You must have snatched from the grid which is not allocated to you. You must have taken this power be over and above from that grid. … (Interruptions)[MSOffice61]  I will have to find that out.  It is not for the unallocated or allocated power.  I will inquire into it. As far as Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana is concerned, I had already said that in the Eleventh Plan, which I am discussing, every village of the country will be taken into account and by 2009 every village will be electrified. As far as the bidding procedure is concerned, the MoU route will be stopped as soon as this Bill is passed in the Parliament.  Now, this MoU has not been accepted.  The best way is to go for the bidding procedure. Your Chief Minister is a very nice person, the one who has immediately agreed to join the ultra mega project.  Two months after I became the Minister of Power, the Chief Minister, Andhra Pradesh had requested to give an ultra mega project.  He understood what it means.  The whole thing is going to come on the pit head side, which will be useful for the State.  I think one should accept it. We have a lot of money. The proposals are being sent by the States. राज्यों के जो प्रपोजल्स आते हैं, हम उनको एग्जामिन करके भेज देते हैं और अगर वे ठीक होते हैं तो पैसे देते हैं। हरिजन बस्ती, गरिजन बस्ती, जो लोग गांवों में रहते हैं, उनको प्रायरिटी दी जा रही है क्योंकि यहां जो बीपीएल कानून पारित किया गया है, वे उसमें आते हैं। यह बात सही है कि जो हैमलेट्स हैं, उनको भी बिजली मिलनी चाहिए, उसके लिए हम प्रयास कर रहे हैं। अभी तक ३०० तक की जनसंख्या वाली बस्तियों को लिया गया है और आगे भविष्य में हम इससे कम जनसंख्या वाली बस्तियों को भी इसमें शामिल करेंगे, इसके बारे में आपके मन में कोई सन्देह नहीं होना चाहिए। ट्रेडिंग के बारे में यह बात सही है कि पावर ट्रेडिंग कारपोरेशन यहां है, लेकिन स्टेट्स में अभी जहां ट्रेडिंग हाउस नहीं हैं, लेकिन वे लोग बेचते हैं। हमारे सामने यह सुझाव है, हम इस पर क्या कर सकते हैं, वह जरूर देखेंगे। प्रो. रासा सिंह रावत ( अजमेर ): राजस्थान के जो न्युक्लियर पावर प्लान्ट्स बार-बार बन्द हो जाते हैं, उसके बारे में भी बताइए? श्री सुशील कुमार शिंदे : आपके पास न्युक्लियर का जो साधन है, वह अभी कम है। इसकी वजह से देश में न्युक्लियर पावर केवल ३ प्रतिशत है। यही बात मैंने कैगा के बारे में कही है। वह कार्य जितनी जल्दी हो सके, उसके लिए हम प्रयास करेंगे। राजस्थान के लिए कोई डरने की बात नहीं है। आप राजीव गांधी ग्रामीण विद्युतीकरण योजना चालू कीजिए, हम आपको देते जाएंगे। MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The question is: