SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got scammed for 2.8 lakhs on telegram
DATE: 2023-10-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16yavue/got_scammed_for_28_lakhs_on_telegram/

--- POST TEXT ---

I know I'm going to get a lot of hate and cussing for this and I absolutely deserve it, so please keep it coming. I lost 2.8 lakhs to scammers on telegram. I have received similar messages earlier but I have always chosen to ignore it, I don't know what the fuck was wrong with me this time around, I decided to reply.

Got a message from someone on WhatsApp wherein they asked me to give ratings to cafes. I did it and she asked me to contact a receptionist for a code and I got 150rs right away. And by the end of the day I got another 150 rs, 300rs in total. The next day the receptionist asked me to take part in the prepaid tasks wherein you have to send money and you'll get 30% bonus on the prepaid amount. For a new user they can pay 1k and get 1300 in return and the receptionist urged me to take part in that. Even at that point I did not really think much of it, deposited 1000 and got 1.3k in return and 300rs for the Google reviews. Then I was asked to take part in another prepaid task, I chose the lowest amount 3k, and there was an additional task in that and I had to give 2800 and I got a return of 6500. It was A DUMB move on my part, I've never regretted anything more in my life😭. The next day again I completed a couple of basic tasks, then the prepaid task came, I chose the 3k option, I assumed if you choose 3k the succeeding task amount will be lesser than 3k like it was the day before. The second task came in and they asked to pay 21800 rs, I paid the same. And then there came a third task, they asked me to pay 65k, and I started panicking quickly, but even then my dumbass brain couldn't register what it was a scam. There were 3 more people in the group and there paid their money, i was under the impression that they had the money so they paid quickly. Anyway, idk how and why I decided to lose 65k, the "teacher" who apparently assists you in such tasks said this will probably be the last task and one of the group member there said she has been doing this for a month now and there has never been a fourth task but lo and behold there comes a this task where you had to choose one of the three options - 2 lakhs, 5.8 lakhs and 8.8 lakhs. And fear was all over me, I was so focused on losing my 90k that I didn't realise if I gave 2 lakhs I would loose all my money. I told my mom about the whole thing, she kept telling me not to give 2 lakhs, kept saying it was a fraud but didn't listen. I paid 2 lakhs and then they said I apparently did something wrong, and to rectify that I have to pay 5.8 or 8.8 lakhs, at this point I realised that it was a scam😭😭 and since then I've been in a terrible position mentally. I know all the comments are going to be about how dumb I am, and I absolutely deserve to hear that. My dad doesn't know about this, I want to file a complaint but I can't let my dad know about this, what should I do. Please help