State. This is first application under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. filed on

behalf of the applicant, who is in custody since 25/02/2019 in

connection with Crime No.656/2018 registered at Police Station

Padav, District-Gwalior for the offence punishable under Section 376 of IPC. It is the submission of learned counsel for the applicant that a

false case has been registered against the applicant. Through various

WhatsApp chats and photographs submitted by the applicant

alongwith application, it is demonstrated that consensual relationship

when turned soured then resulted into registration of offence. It is

further submitted that from the modus operandi of the prosecutrix it

appears that she is part of a criminal nexus by which they take

persons into honey trap and then exhort money from them. Charge-

sheet has already been filed and medical examination nowhere

indicates commission of offence. Confinement since 25/02/2019

amounts to pre trial detention. He undertakes to cooperate in the trial

and would make himself available as and when required. He would

not be a source of embarrassment and threat to the complainant party

in any manner. HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH 2 M.Cr.C. No.18839/2019 (Harish Alagh Vs. State of M.P.)

 Learned Panel Lawyer for the respondent-State opposed the

prayer and prayed for dismissal of the application. Heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the case

diary. Considering the fact situation as well as submissions advanced,

but without commenting on the merits of the case, this Court intends

to allow the bail application. It is directed that the applicant shall be

released on bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of

Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lac Only) with one solvent surety of the

like amount, to the satisfaction of the Trial Court concerned. This

order will remain operative subject to compliance of the following

conditions by the applicant:- A copy of this order be sent to the Court concerned for
 compliance. Certified copy as per rules.