The Supreme Court of India has orally asked the Union Government about the lack of regulations on cryptocurrencies, according to Bar and Bench . The apex court’s bench emphasised the need for oversight and regulatory measures during an ongoing cryptocurrency fraud case .

The bench, comprising Justice Surya Kant and Justice N.K. Singh, noted that the issue could be taken up for consultation by experts. While the court has not indicated a complete ban—citing possible economic repercussions—it did highlight the “practical challenges” courts face in dealing with cryptocurrency-related lawsuits.

The court reportedly said it had asked the Attorney General (AG) “almost two years back” whether the government was taking steps to regulate cryptocurrencies. At that time, the AG responded that the government could not act unilaterally due to the presence of an “international market.”

One of the judges added that new mechanisms are evolving for international trade, and banning digital currencies would be akin to “shutting your eyes to ground reality.” However, regulation is deemed necessary.

Justice Kant also questioned Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati on how courts would deal with cases in the future where individuals are required to prove “what is the asset” in question. The ASG responded that she would seek instructions from the Central Government.

This judicial nudge comes years after the Supreme Court struck down the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) 2018 ban on cryptocurrencies , calling it a disproportionate response. The RBI had expressed concerns that crypto assets could destabilise India’s monetary and fiscal systems. In July 2022, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed Parliament that the RBI is of the view that cryptocurrencies should be prohibited in the country.

Despite these concerns, the Supreme Court had earlier rejected a plea seeking its intervention in creating crypto trading guidelines, leaving the matter to the legislature. However, the latest observations from the bench underline growing judicial unease with the legal vacuum surrounding virtual digital assets (VDAs).

In December 2024, the government stated that it has not set a timeline for regulating Virtual Digital Assets (VDAs), including cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). It said VDAs are “borderless” by nature and would require international collaboration to avoid “regulatory arbitrage.”

Despite the absence of a regulatory framework, the government brought blockchain-based digital currencies under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.

In March 2023, a gazette notification brought crypto assets within the ambit of India’s money laundering laws. A few months later, the Minister of State for Finance informed Parliament that 28 VDA service providers had registered with the Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND), the agency responsible for collecting financial intelligence under PMLA.

According to the Government of India’s Economic Survey 2022–23 , global standards for digital assets must be “comprehensive and consistent.” Regulatory responses should be based on standard taxonomies and reliable data to address contagion effects, and must remain flexible for future adjustments based on market developments.

Interestingly, even though the government does not regulate these blockchain-based virtual currencies, it still imposes a 30% tax on the income generated from such VDAs, excluding a 4% cess.

The following transactions can invite the 30% tax:

Although the parliament has to work towards bringing out regulations for VDAs, especially cryptocurrencies, the government can strive to bring global players to the table to deliberate and discuss crypto regulations. Regulating VDAs is not only important for judicial interpretation, but it would also help in curbing the misuse of such digital assets beyond just money laundering.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event