SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: List of censored content on online platforms?
DATE: 2020-05-20
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/gnb741/list_of_censored_content_on_online_platforms/

--- POST TEXT ---

A few months ago I rented T2: Trainspotting on YouTube and found that it was heavily censored. Everyone who knows about the movie knows that they swear like sailors in almost every line. All of that was muted. I couldn't watch it for more than 20 minutes and had to resort to piracy. I found that they even had a sex scene from early on in the movie completely removed. And it was actually an important scene IMO because &gt;!it shows one of the main characters using it for blackmail and establishes his character early on!&lt;. 

What content have you personally found on online platforms like primevideo, Netflix, Hotstar or even YouTube that was censored? Did you find any place to stream them legally uncut and uncensored? Is piracy the only option left? 

I'll provide a couple of more examples. The 2007 movie "Ek Chalis ki Last Local" is available on Hotstar. The movie begins with an A certificate from the CBFC. Its runtime on Hotstar is 2 hours 12 minutes and Hotstar has rated it for a 15+ audience. YouTube on the other hand has a version of the movie uploaded by Venus Movies with a runtime of 2 hours 23 minutes (but sadly only 480p). That's 11 minutes of footage cut. I have managed to download a DVDRip with the full runtime and a WebRip (most probably sourced from hotstar) with the shorter runtime. Sidenote: even piracy is getting bad now with sources like these. Older sources tend to have a worse quality and lack seeders for obscure movies. 

Another movie I wanted to watch was a Bengali movie called Hemlock Society. This is another A title with a 15+ rating on Hotstar. Over there it has a runtime of 2 hours 14 minutes but I have a WebRip of the movie which has a runtime of 2 hours 21 minutes. I'll have to do with the Hotstar version because I don't know Bengali and I don't have subtitles for it. I'm not sure if this title is actually censored or cut because the subtitle files I found online only work for a shorter duration video file. I wasted one evening trying to sync them with subtitle delay and linear correction but no avail. 

I can recall a few more examples I encountered by lurking on this sub: Hotstar: Koffee with Karan, Last week tonight; Primevideo: Marvelous Mrs Maisel, Grand Tour, Dirty Picture, Madam Secretary