SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Huge Protest against Cheating Scam in CGO complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi. The Mainstream Media, the watch dogs of the country are ignoring it.
DATE: 2018-03-01
SCORE: 778
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/813jdy/huge_protest_against_cheating_scam_in_cgo_complex/

--- POST TEXT ---

Urgent read! Please spread the words...

While the media of the country have been deeply engrossed to make us mourn for the death of a superstar, some of us could not even relate to (some might though), they totally ignored the protests staged by thousands of youths of the country on the roads of national capital territory of Delhi. I am shocked, sad and burning in aghast to see such do-not-give-a-damn attitude of the mainstream media towards this issue. While the Wire at least did a live reporting of the incident, I could not see a single report from any of the leading media houses, whom I rely on for courageous journalism.
To you all, who have no clue what I am talking about, let me give you a brief intro to this long rant. From 17-22 February 2018 SSC CGL tier 2 was conducted across the whole country. Around 1,84,000 students sat for the said exam. To your knowledge this is on online exam and the exam happens in different shifts. After the commencement of the Exam students got to know that the question papers of all the shifts were already leaked on internet before the commencement of the exam. When students approached SSC, they did not take any action against it. Rather, people who disclosed this scam and protested against this mayhem, were debarred from the exam.
According to students who are on road, protesting against this intentional ‘error’, the question paper leak is nothing but a deliberate incident, happened in exchange of huge monetary benefits. SSC officials are involved. Around 3 to 4k students are protesting in front of CGO Complex, Lodhi Road and for past 2 nights they are sleeping on the road. They have all come from different parts of the country. They are demanding CBI enquiry against this entire scam, and unless SSC agrees to take any positive stand, they would continue this protest.
Why this silence from media’s end, I am clueless. Are we so deeply mourned by the sudden demise of Sridevi that we have lost our conscience of honest reporting? Or are we not reporting this protest because it has not sparked any uproar in our mind? While NDTV’s Ravish Kumar is speaking on this issue, where is the watchdogs of the country? Are we waiting for some mishaps to happen? Is it because unless some protestors are injured or killed in fake encounters, it does not make a news?
If anyone of my media friends is reading this post, please be there to at least see what’s happening. Police are continuously provoking students to take law and order in their hands, students have not lost their patience. But, if this continues to happen, they might just lose control of their mind. Because, it is heard that police are not allowing the food and water supplying coaching institutes to support this protest. Please peek into your conscience and play the role of at least an honest reporter.

Please spread the word. Thousands of students need our help. The youth of the country need our help. Please help them in any way in this fight against corruption.

https://thelogicalindian.com/exclusive/ssc-protest/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbF4MeBOAx0

Edit: Thank you guys for your support and wishes. Your support is all we need to make this protest successful and to save the future of our youth.

The Congress has picked this up now and after trending at number 1 on Twitter, many politicians have also tweeted about it. Shashi Tharoor has written a letter to the Chairman of SSC. The National Student's Union have also come out in support of the protest. Mr. Surjewala and Yogendra Yadav have visited the scene. India Today and Times Now have also reported this protest.

I also wanted to clarify one thing. To everyone saying that the exam which was conducted on 21st February 2018 was cancelled and rescheduled on March, well, the exam of 21st was supposed to start at 10:30 AM but after 15 minutes ie at 10:45 AM, SSC cancelled the exam and delayed it to 12:30 PM on the same day. Actually, the question paper and the answer key were leaked on Facebook at 9:30 AM but SSC denied this and instead cited technical glitch as the reason for delay. Then on 23rd Feb, they issued a notification saying that due to technical glitch the exam of 21st Feb has been cancelled and will now be held on 9 March 2018. SSC has been denying the incident of cheating or paper leak and have been giving nonsensical reasons for this inconvenience. They have also blamed the coaching institutions for instigating the students. This is completely unacceptable.

Edit: Guys, please follow TopRankers on Facebook. They are providing live coverage of the event. Share it as much as you can. SSC is again playing its delay game by saying that their server is in Chennai and they have to there to verify the documents. Police have brought water tanks and tear gas and are preparing for Lathi Charge. Please help the students.