MediaNama’s Take: In December 2016, the Watal Committee report recommended that the government make the regulation of payments independent of the central banking functions of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Eight years later, the government has constituted a Payments Regulatory Body (PRB) to oversee the functioning of payment systems in the country. However, this regulatory body remains under the supervision of the RBI, which isn’t neutral.

In its report, the Watal Committee hinted at the heavy-handed approach of banks, stating, “Fintech companies that require to connect to banking systems to serve their customers tend to face restrictive practices. This anti-competitive setting is not conducive for innovation and consumer interest.”

Payment regulation in India still lacks neutrality. Even with the PRB’s creation, the structure remains under RBI’s influence, so deep change seems unlikely.

For instance, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is a non-profit entity incorporated under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, and owned by a consortium of banks, the RBI has the authority to issue directions, supervise, and impose penalties on NPCI and other payment operators. Through the NPCI, the central bank regulates the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) ecosystem. This further exposes the RBI’s lack of neutrality in payment regulations.

Notably, the Watal Committee report also pointed out that payment systems run by the RBI are conflicted. “The most notable distortion in the market is the case of RTGS, NEFT, and NECS, where the RBI performs both commercial as well as regulatory functions. This leads to a conflict of interest and goes against the principles of competitive neutrality,” the report says. In the past, the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) and the Payments Council of India (PCI) had also called for a law to ensure payments neutrality.

By including government representatives, the PRB gives the state direct influence over payments regulation. Nonetheless, because the RBI Governor—or, in his absence, the Deputy Governor, retains overriding authority in case of conflict, concerns arise. Such an arrangement risks creating regulatory outcomes that disproportionately favour banks, potentially to the detriment of independent payment companies.

On September 30, 2025, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced that it has constituted a six-member Payments Regulatory Body (PRB), comprising three members from the Central government, to oversee the functioning of the country’s payment systems.

The PRB is responsible for the regulation and supervision of all payment systems, including electronic and non-electronic, domestic and cross-border systems, the central bank said in a circular.

Chaired by RBI Governor Sanjay Malhotra, the Board also includes two other RBI representatives, the Deputy Governor and the Executive Director in charge of Payments and Settlement Systems. Alongside the RBI representatives, the three government nominees on the PRB are the Secretary of the Department of Financial Services, the Secretary of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, and former Telecom Secretary Aruna Sundararajan.

The recent amendments to the Payment and Settlement Systems (PSS) Act, 2007, came into force on May 9, 2025. The PRB replaces the erstwhile Board for Regulation and Supervision of Payment and Settlement Systems (BPSS), a committee of the RBI’s Central Board.

The five-member BPSS, also chaired by the RBI Governor, did not include government nominees. As per the recent amendments to Section 3 of the PSS Act, 2007, carried out via the Finance Act, 2017 — decisions requiring board approval will be taken by a majority of members present and voting. In the event of a tie, the Chairperson, or in his absence, the Deputy Governor, will have a second vote. The Board is required to meet at least twice a year.

Speaking to MediaNama, Astha Srivastava, Principal Associate at Ikigai Law, recalled that the Watal Committee faced strong opposition from the RBI, which argued that payment systems regulation should remain within the central bank’s purview due to its monetary policy responsibilities.

“The current structure of the PRB represents a compromise between what the report suggested and what the RBI wanted. It balances government representation with the central bank’s oversight. While the RBI Governor will head the Board, the inclusion of three government representatives could lead to more coordinated policymaking,” Srivastava said.

The RBI’s decision to establish the PRB comes nearly eight years after the Watal Committee recommended setting up an independent board to oversee the country’s payment systems.

The Watal Committee report had pointed out that the RBI’s regulations discriminate between bank and non-bank service providers. According to the report, the RBI’s regulations relating to receipts of inward foreign exchange remittances into Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) treat bank and non-bank Payment Service Providers (PSPs) “differently.” “Similarly, direct access to payment systems is limited to bank-led PSPs. This has inherently tilted the regulatory framework in favour of bank-led PSPs,” the report stated.

“To this end, several stakeholders pointed out that access to payment systems such as the UPI has been restricted to banks. Similarly, while the PPIs issued by banks are open-loop cards, non-banks are restricted from issuing open-loop PPIs,” it noted.

Furthermore, the Committee flagged issues with the BPSS, stating, “This Board is a sub-committee of the RBI and is not independent of the central banking functions of RBI. However, banking as an activity is separate from payments, which is more of a technology business. Micro-prudential regulation of banks may not by itself improve competition in the payments market. The Committee noted that in major common law jurisdictions, the competition and innovation objectives in payments are kept separate from central banking and micro-prudential objectives.”

Although the Committee noted that the law doesn’t mandate authorised payment systems to provide open access to all payment system providers, this was a failure on the BPSS’s part.

“If you look at the UPI ecosystem, there have been multiple efforts to de-risk it, with several committees, including Watal, pointing out that we’re too dependent on a single payment ecosystem. Whenever UPI breaks down or faces a glitch, it becomes a significant weak spot,” said Prasanto Kumar Roy, former Vice President at NASSCOM.

The rapid growth of the UPI has also led to a surge in online payment frauds in the country. According to a recent survey conducted by LocalCircles, one in five families with a UPI user has experienced fraud at least once in the last three years.

The RBI’s annual report for FY24-25 also noted a sharp increase in digital payment frauds — with 13,516 cases accounting for 56.5% of all reported banking frauds, and total losses amounting to Rs 520 crore.

According to Roy, the PRB will likely play a significant role in curbing digital fraud. “One area where the PRB can step in is when banks hold the customer facing fraud liable because they shared the OTP,” he said. “There should be complete clarity on responsibility and liability. The customer should not have to hear that they are completely liable for the bank allowing a scammer to withdraw all funds overnight without any intervention, just because one PIN was shared.”

Furthermore, Roy called for technological advancements to intercept such messages and transactions, noting that SMSs are directly under the supervision of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), which works in coordination with the RBI.

Over the past few years, the RBI has implemented several measures to combat online payment frauds in the country, such as:

Independence in payment regulations was a core principle advocated by the Watal Committee. While some stakeholders hoped the PRB would genuinely operate as an independent regulator, akin to the proposed Indian Payment Authority (IPAY), these hopes have not materialised. The PRB’s functioning remains strongly influenced by the central bank. Until non-bank PSPs, fintech companies, and independent stakeholders gain meaningful representation, systemic biases will persist.

Moreover, the urgent threat of rising UPI fraud in the country requires robust regulation and seamless coordination, not only within banks but across all players in the digital payments ecosystem. While the PRB’s establishment is a step towards reform, addressing challenges spanning neutrality, open access, and fraud monitoring will require continued vigilance, genuine independence, and a willingness to embrace global best practices in payments regulation.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event