We’d like to take a moment to thank our sponsors for having chosen to support MediaNama in its endeavor to provide our readers with insightful and detailed coverage of the evolving digital ecosystem in India. To advertise at MediaNama download our MediaKit here (pdf).

Our thanks go out to everyone who has supported us, and to our sponsors

Akamai : Akamai is the leading cloud platform for helping enterprises provide secure, high-performing user experiences on any device, anywhere. At the core of the Company’s solutions is the Akamai Intelligent Platform providing extensive reach, coupled with unmatched reliability, security, visibility and expertise. Akamai removes the complexities of connecting the increasingly mobile world, supporting 24/7 consumer demand, and enabling enterprises to securely leverage the cloud. To learn more about how Akamai is accelerating the pace of innovation in a hyperconnected world, please visit www.akamai.com and follow @Akamai on Twitter.

comScore is a global leader in measuring the digital world and the preferred source of digital marketing intelligence. Through a powerful combination of behavioral and survey insights, comScore enables clients to better understand, leverage and profit from the rapidly evolving worldwide web and mobile arena.

comScore provides syndicated and custom solutions in online audience measurement, e-commerce, advertising, search, video and mobile and offers dedicated analysts with digital marketing and vertical-specific industry expertise. Advertising agencies, publishers, marketers and financial analysts turn to comScore for the industry-leading solutions needed to craft successful digital, marketing, sales, product development and trading strategies.

Crazeal : Groupon, launched in November 2008 in Chicago, features a daily deal on the best stuff to do, eat, see and buy in 45 countries around the world. Groupon uses collective buying power to offer huge discounts and provide a win-win for business and consumers, delivering more than 1,000 daily deals globally. To subscribe for the best deals in your city, visit www.crazeal.com

E2E Networks : India’s most clued in dedicated hosting company founded by geeks. E2E Networks Private Limited has been into the business of providing Low latency Dedicated Servers and VPS Servers in India since 2009. E2E Networks goes way beyond merely provisioning servers/cloud infrastructure. Our expertise includes strategies and managed services help for implementing the most suitable cloud architecture based on public, private or hybrid cloud platforms for your web facing or enterprise applications.

Flipkart.com , India’s largest e-commerce brand for physical goods, started with books in 2007, and entered the consumer electronics category with the launch of mobile phones, in September 2010. Since then, it has grown rapidly with the introduction of innovative features like Cash on Delivery (CoD), 30 day replacement guarantee and its own delivery network. Today, the portfolio is spread across 15 categories – from books to music, mobiles, computers, cameras, home & kitchen appliances, TV & home theatre systems, personal and healthcare products, and the newly launched stationery items and perfumes. In addition to these, Flipkart has also made a foray into the emerging digital content market with the recent launch of Flyte, the digital music store.

Flipkart is rapidly expanding its network of warehouses, distribution centers, procurement operations and 24/7 customer support teams. The company has a dedicated partner for last-mile deliveries in 50 cities. With a team of around 5000 members, the company operates from offices and warehouses in seven Indian cities.

Hazel Media is a technology product company based in Delhi, India. The company creates technology platforms to merge Enterprise Mobility Applications & Local Languages . Its flagship platform, MobQuery , enables smart mobile applications to be used by enterprise workforce in emerging countries on smartphones and low-cost mobile devices in their native languages.  Hazel Media won mBillionth Award in 2011, and has been named as one of 30 Best Emerging Tech Startups in India at TechSparks 2012. More information on Hazel Media can be found at www.hazelmedia.in

Imsy : Imsy is the popular cross-platform messaging app that mixes messaging & content in a revolutionary manner.

It comes with a sleek UI for group messaging and photo-sharing and 3rd party bots provide social, entertainment and information alerts directly in the inbox.

APIs are available for developers to build bots that deliver SMS like snacky content alerts over its powerful messaging platform.

The app is available for free for any Nokia, iPhone, Android,Blackberry or Windows phones.

Indiatimes: Times Internet Limited , (TIL), is the internet and mobile venture of India’s largest media house—the Times Group. TIL websites are among the fastest growing web-based networks worldwide.

Indiatimes.com is TIL’s flagship brand. Indiatimes.com is undoubtedly India’s preferred online and mobile value-added services destination for millions of surfers and subscribers looking for rich and diverse digital content, commanding more than 1 Billion page views per month. The other key properties in the TIL portfolio are Timesofindia.com – world no.1 news site in terms of page views and economictimes.com India’s No.1 business news website.

In the mobile space, Indiatimes 58888 is the largest direct-to-consumer SMS and IVR shortcode, accessed by over 50mn consumers across all telecom operators in India.

MouthShut.com is the biggest platform for consumers to network amongst themselves. MouthShut.com is India’s only leading online platform for consumers to share experiences and exchange views on products and services. Since 2000, it provides a platform for members of the public to rant and rave about any product or service. It is a meeting place for consumers to exchange ideas, opinions and feedback on products they have used or are considering buying. MouthShut.com serves the critical mission of helping consumers make the most informed decision based on feedback of peers and other consumers like them.

Nazara Technologies : Nazara is a leading mobile games developer and publisher focused on the large mobile consumer base in India and emerging markets including the Middle East and Africa. In addition to developing a range of branded and original mobile games, Nazara operates unique services such as “Games Club” and also serves as an exclusive distributor for key game developers such as Electronic Arts. Its customers include mobile carriers as well as handset manufacturers. Nazara also owns “Playcaso” – an iOs and Android developer/publisher brand, “nzLabs” – a work-for-hire apps studio & “gCity” – a social gaming platform.

One97 Communications Limited : One97 is a pioneer in mobile internet services for consumers in India. It has the widest and largest deployment of telecom application cloud platform. Thriving on innovation, One97 delivers mobile content, advertising and commerce services to millions of mobile consumers.

Headquartered in New Delhi, One97 is more than 1,000 people strong team with regional offices in Mumbai, Chennai, Dhaka, Lagos and Dubai. We have raised significant funding from marquee investors like Intel Capital, SAIF Partners and Silicon Valley Bank.

Our Key Offerings are as follows: – Inapaq branded content services for mobile consumers – Oorja Mobile Advertising – pay per click and pay per insert mobile advertising on 2.5G and mobile internet properties – Paytm, a mobile commerce platform- offers mobile recharge and deals for consumers

Ooyala : Ooyala is the leader in online video management, publishing, analytics and monetization. Our integrated suite of technologies and services give content owners the power to expand audiences and the deep insights that drive increased viewer engagement and revenue from video.Ooyala serves hundreds of global media companies and consumer brands including Dell, ESPN, Fairfax Digital, Miramax, News Digital, Star India, Telegraph Media Group, UTV,  and Yahoo! Japan.

OnMobile Global Ltd . is a pioneer in white-labelled, Value Added Products and Services [VAS] for mobile, landline and media service providers. The #1 VAS specialist in emerging and high-growth markets, OnMobile touches the lives of over 1500 million mobile users across 55 countries each month. With our diverse product portfolio of Mobile Music, multi-screen Video Gateway and delivery solutions, Phone Backup and Personal Cloud Management solutions, Voice and Video portals, M-Commerce products and services, we generate 2 – 5% contribution for top customers and top line revenues of over US $800 million for over 92 customers globally. We deliver our products by the best combination of a hosted Cloud with on-site operations at the customer premises or through products deployed in customer networks.

Founded in 2000, OnMobile has 1830 employees spread across India, U.S., LATAM, Africa, Australia, Middle East and Europe. The company was publicly listed in India in 2008. Recent acquisitions include Voxmobili (2007), Telisma (2008), and Dilithium Networks (2010).

OnMobile is the first Indian telecom VAS Company to go public. The company’s shares are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange (NSE) as on March 31, 2010.

Octane Marketing Pvt. Ltd ., is a marketing technology company that provides state-of-the-art email, SMS & web-marketing platform. Being one of theIndustry leaders in the e-mail services category, Octane has also been recognised as ‘one of the hottest technology start-ups’ in the year 2012 by VCCircle.

Octane is also India’s first DIY solution in this space. With our in-house expert technology & development team, we have the ability to cater to all kinds of custom requirements. The system is scalable up to sending one million emails per hour per client.

Octane believes in empowering marketers with information that supports them in planning marketing strategies better & share insights that help businesses grow. We therefore researched and released the ‘Annual e-Marketing Research Report’ in the last two years. These reports are the most comprehensive studies of the e-Marketing discipline in India. The last report captured perspectives of over 400 marketers in India.

Quikr , the ‘Quikest’ Way to Find, Buy, Sell, Rent Online

Quikr isIndia’s leading horizontal classifieds company. Quikr was launched in July 2008 and is currently present in 40 cities acrossIndia. Quikr provides the local community in every city a platform where consumers can buy, sell, rent, find something and address a need while doing so, in over 150 categories. These categories range from Mobiles, Real Estate, Cars, Services, Jobs, Entertainment, Furniture, Electronics and lots more. Quikr allows users to post ads to sell or find something for free in the simplest possible way!

Quikr is backed by Matrix Partners India, Omidyar Network, Norwest Venture Partners and invested in by eBay Inc. Quikr was formerly known as Kijiji.in. The company was re-branded as Quikr.com in July 2008.

Quikr is an ideal platform not just for individuals to trade with each other but also for those who would like to start a new business or grow an existing one. Over Six million people across India visit Quikr every month to address a need they have.

Qualcomm Ventures : Qualcomm Ventures, the venture investment group of Qualcomm Incorporated was launched in the United States in November 2000 with an initial US$500 million allocation. It started India operations in 2007 and invested in 8 companies so far.

QPRIZE 2012 is the third edition of Qualcomm Ventures’ seed investment competition, designed to promote innovation in the technology industry and identify the industry’s most promising early-stage technology companies. QPRIZE 2012 Registration line is now open inviting eligible startups to send in their applications. QPRIZE India winner will receive US$100,000 of convertible note funding from Qualcomm Incorporated and will be eligible to compete against other regional finalists in the QPRIZE Grand Finale for an additional US$150,000. Further details including candidate eligibility and submission guidelines are available at www.qprize.com .

Saavn – No work, all play!:  Saavn provides the best Bollywood and Indian music listening experience, online and on the go.  Its site and top-rated iOS and Android apps give people legal access to the largest indian music library anywhere.  Saavn has partnerships with all the major music companies to give users access to millions of songs, albums, and playlists, including the best of Bollywood, bhangra, bhajans, ghazals, and more, with new releases added every day.  With Saavn, people never need to transfer music again and playlists are always in sync, whether online or on the go.  Saavn has also partnered with global leaders like Google, Facebook, Airtel and several other groups. With no piracy and no malware, Saavn makes listening as easy as ek, do, teen.

Spice Digital Ltd : a part of Spice Global Group – US$2 Billion conglomerate promoted by Dr. BK Modi, is one of India’s leading Mobile Value Added Services company and offers innovative solutions for Telecom Operators, Enterprises and Government using mobile connectivity media – Voice, SMS, USSD, WAP & 3G. We are preferred partner of all major telecom service providers in India and providing services to international telecom players in over 20 countries across the globe. We are pioneers in innovation and technology and committed to deliver excellent Award winning products and services to the customers.

We have exclusive tie-ups with Hungama and PPL for music streaming services. We have acquired two leading international VAS players, MMS (Indonesia) and Beoworld (Malaysia). Recently, we had a major financial investment from MediaTek (Taiwan).

Zaakpay , funded by Sequoia Capital, is India’s newest and bravest payment company, with maximum coverage for payments and has lowest setup fee.

There are hosts of things we do differently, out of which few are below:

*

We’d also like to thank you, our readers , for the time and effort you spend in critiquing our content, participating in debates in the comments, calling up for more information, and demanding more of us, and of course, all the anonymous tips . We’re trying our best to match your expectations of us.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event