BRIEF FACTS 1. On 16.08.2018, Suneel Dutt PW-13 was posted at CPC R Police
 Head Quarter as a call attendant. At about 21:47, he received a
 call from caller Satbir Singh, wherein the caller informed that
 "Jaipur Golden Hospital mein caller bol rha hai ki meri ladki ko
 sasural walon ne maar diya hai, jinka address House No. 509, F
 Block, Mangolpuri hai jo use lekar above hospital mein aaye
 hain. Ladki ko maar diya hai jo dead hai." PW-13 entered the
 information in computer system and forwarded the same to the
 concerned PS. PW-13 filled a form in this regard which is
 Ex.PW13/A. 2. On 16.08.2018, Ct. Manoj PW-1 was working as DD Writer at
 PS Mangolpuri. He received the aforesaid information through
 the wireless operator that one Poonam W/o. Pragya Pradeep was
 brought dead to Jaipur Golden Hospital. He entered the
 information in form of DD No.120-B Ex.PW10/A and marked
 the same to SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 for further necessary
 action. 3. Subsequently, at about 9:52 PM, PW-1 again received similar
 information from the wireless operator, which was also recorded
 by him in form of DD No.124-B Ex.PW1/B. The said DD was
 also transmitted to SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18. BABRU
 BHAN

 Digitally 4. In pursuant to the aforesaid DDs, SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN

 alongwith Ct. Naveen reached Jaipur Golden Hospital and Date: 5. The dead body of the deceased was got preserved at SGM
 Hospital Mortuary by SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 through Ct.
 Naveen. 6. The crime team was called at the spot. ASI Satbir Singh was
 leading the crime team. He inspected the spot and prepared his
 report Ex.P1. HC Satyawan PW-10 was the Crime Team
 Photographer, who took the photographs Ex.PW1/10 (colly.).
 PW-10 also issued certificate u/s. 65-B of Indian Evidence Act
 Ex.PW10/A to IO. 7. During further course of investigation, SI Sandeep Mathur PW-
 18 seized the chunni (stole) which was used as ligature and a
 vegetable knife from the spot vide seizure memo Ex.PW18/B and
 Ex.PW18/C. The aforesaid case property was deposited in the
 malkhana. Concerned SDM was informed in this regard. The
 SDM directed SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 to appear in the
 mortuary alongwith the parents of the deceased. 8. On next day, SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 met the Executive
 Magistrate, who recorded statement Ex.PW4/A of Satbir PW-4
 (father of the deceased). In his statement, Satbir stated that he
 had married his daughter Poonam with accused Pragya Pradeep BABRU
 BHAN
 on 10.03.2016. Everything went well for initial 5/6 months but
 thereafter, the in-laws of his daughter started harassing her. They Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU BHAN
 used to demand money. Further, on 10.08.2018, Pragya Pradeep Date: 9. SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 prepared identification memos
 Ex.PW4/C and Ex.PW12/A regarding the identification of the
 dead body. He also prepared inquest papers Ex.PW18/D and
 Ex.PW18/E. He moved an application Ex.PW18/F with a request
 to conduct postmortem on the dead body of the deceased. 10. Dr. Mahipal Dabas PW-5 conducted the postmortem on the body
 of the deceased on 17.08.2018 and prepared detailed report
 Ex.PW5/A. After conducting the postmortem, he opined that
 cause of death was due to asphyxia due to antemortem hanging.
 It may be mentioned here itself that Sh. Mukesh PW-6 had
 videographed the postmortem. He prepared a CD Ex.PW6/A
 which he handed over to IO alongwith certificate u/s. 65-B of
 Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW6/B. 11. After postmortem, dead body of the deceased was handed over
 to his father Satbir vide memo Ex.PW4/B. 12. Concerned doctor, who had conducted the postmortem handed
 BABRU
 over one sealed plastic box containing viscera of the deceased BHAN

 alongwith sample seal to police which was taken into possession
 Digitally
 by SI Sandeep Mathur PW-18 vide seizure memo Ex.PW18/G. signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 13. In the meanwhile, rukka was prepared and on the basis of rukka,
 ASI Balbir Singh PW-2 registered the present FIR Ex.PW2/A and
 made a corresponding endorsement Ex.PW2/B in this regard on
 the rukka. ASI Balbir Singh PW-2 also issued a certificate u/s.
 65-B of Indian Evidence Act Ex.PW2/C in support of the FIR. 14. Further investigation of the case was conducted by Insp.
 Devender Singh PW-19. During his tenure of investigation, he
 arrested accused Pragya Pradeep vide memo Ex.PW18/H. 15. On 27.08.2018, Ct. Dharambir PW-11 inspected the spot and
 prepared the scaled site plan Ex.PW11/A of the place of incident. 16. On 11.09.2018, Ct. Jitender PW-15 deposited the viscera of the
 deceased in FSL. 17. During further course of investigation, IO recorded the
 statements of the witnesses. On completion of investigation, he
 filed the charge-sheet accusing the accused persons for offences
 u/s. 498-A/304-B/34 IPC . 18. Formal charges for the offences accused persons were charge-
 sheeted for were framed on 19.01.2019 to which they pleaded not
 guilty and claimed to be tried. 19. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined 19 witnesses.
 Out of those, some witnesses had played very brief and formal BABRU
 BHAN
 role in the process of investigation. While narrating the facts of
 Digitally
 the case above, the minor roles of many witnesses have already signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 20. The rituals of marriage of deceased Poonam with accused Pragya
 Pradeep were performed by Sh. Manoj Kumar Sharma PW-3. 21. Satbir Singh PW-4 being the father of the deceased has narrated
 the entire story starting from the marriage of deceased with accused Pragya
 Pradeep, the treatment given to the deceased by her in-laws, the facts told
 by the deceased to them from time to time and the circumstances, which
 ultimately led to her death. The facts deposed by Satbir Singh have already
 been delineated in detail while discussing the investigation of the case in the
 earlier part of this judgment. 22. Smt. Kiran PW-7 is the mother of the deceased, who has deposed
 exactly in sync with Satbir Singh PW-4. 23. Sh. Vinod Kumar PW-9 is the brother-in-law of deceased, who
 has deposed exactly in sync with Satbir Singh PW-4. 24. On 27.04.2017, at about 9:00 AM, ASI Satish Chander PW-14
 had received a call at PS regarding scuffle between husband and
 wife at H.No. F-509, Mangolpuri, Delhi and after reaching the
 spot, he came to know that the victim had already been taken to
 SGM Hospital. Thereafter, he reached to SGM Hospital where
 victim Poonam had narrated the incident of slapping to her by her
 husband/ accused but she refused to taken any action against him.
 Accordingly, PW-14 closed the file vide DD No.84-B dt. BABRU
 27.04.2017. PW-14 had handed over the original MLC BHAN

 Ex.PW14/A to the IO of the present case. Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: Accused Pragya Pradeep was a habitual drinker and he used to
 beat the deceased up in intoxicated condition. On 27.04.2017,
 accused Pragya Pradeep had given beatings to the deceased and
 her MLC Ex.PW14/A was prepared in this regard at SGM BABRU
 BHAN
 hospital. Matter was reported to the police vide DD no.84B
 which was attended by ASI Satish Chander PW-14 but the Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 deceased refused for any legal action, therefore, the DD was Date: Thus, the prosecution has successfully proved that the deceased
 had died an unnatural death within seven years of her marriage. BABRU
 BHAN 32. Now, comes the third and most important ingredient of the
 offence that deceased was being subjected to cruelty or Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 33. To prove this ingredient of cruelty, prosecution has produced
 many witnesses, PW-4 Satbir Singh, who is father of the
 deceased and PW-7 Kiran, who is mother of the deceased are the
 most material witnesses on this aspect. PW-4 Satbir Singh has
 stated in his examination-in-chief, after 4-5 months of the
 marriage, the in-laws of his daughter started abusing her and
 taunting her regarding his financial condition. They would taunt
 his daughter that no money was given to them in marriage as
 dowry. His daughter would tell her agony as and when she would
 visit her parental home. She would also tell that her husband used
 to beat her up under the influence of alcohol. Once accused
 Pragya Pradeep had given beatings to the deceased on
 27.04.2017 and the matter was reported to the police vide DD
 No.84B and an MLC Ex.PW14/A was also prepared in this
 regard. 34. Smt. Kiran PW-7, who is mother of the deceased has also
 deposed in sync with PW-4. Vinod Kumar PW-9, who is brother
 of the deceased has also deposed the same facts as deposed by
 BABRU
 PW-4 and PW-7. BHAN

 Digitally 35. Logically, before entering into the probable repercussions of a signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 36. Some of the judgments where the Hon'ble Higher Courts have
 given observations upon the effect of general allegations are
 reproduced as under : 37. In case titled as Shivendra Raizada and Ors. Vs. State of UP
 and Ors. , the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court has held that
 "We, therefore, deem it just and legally appropriate to
 quash the proceedings initiated against the appellants
 Geeta Mehrotra and Ramji Mehrotra as the FIR does not
 disclose any material which could be held to be BABRU
 BHAN
 constituting any offence against these two appellants.
 Merely by making a general allegation that they were Digitally
 also involved in physical and mental torture of the signed by
 BABRU BHAN
 Date: 38. Further, in case titled as Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam and
 Ors. Vs. State of Bihar 2022, SC, Hon'ble SC of India has
 held as under: 39. Similarly in the matter of Neelu Chopra and another Vs. Bharti reported in (2009) 10 SCC 184 while quashing the proceedings
 against father-in-law and mother-in-law has observed as under: 40. Now, returning to the facts of the present case. The testimonies
 of the prosecution witnesses would reveal that they have levelled
 collective and vague allegations against all the accused persons
 that they all would harass the deceased for not bringing the
 sufficient dowry. In addition, a general allegation has been
 leveled against accused Pragya Pradeep that he used to beat the
 deceased under influence of liquor. It is relevant to note that no BABRU
 BHAN
 specific date and time in this regard has been given. The
 testimonies of the prosecution witnesses would reveal that Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU BHAN
 Date: 41. One addition allegation has been leveled against accused Pragya
 Pradeep that he used to beat her under the influence of alcohol
 but again it has not been specified that when such beating was
 given by accused. Only one such specific instance has been
 mentioned that on 27.04.2017, accused Pragya Pradeep had
 given beatings to the deceased on 27.04.2017 and matter was
 reported to the police vide DD No.84B. Deceased Poonam was
 medically examined vide MLC Ex.PW14/A. ASI Satish Chander
 who had attended the aforesaid call received vide DD NO.84B
 has been examined as PW-14. He has stated in his court statement
 that call was regarding scuffle between husband and wife at
 H.No.F-509, Mangol Puri. On reaching the spot, PW-14 came to
 know that injured had been removed to SGM hospital. He
 reached SGM hospital where injured Poonam was found under
 treatment. She told ASI Satish Chander that she had some verbal
 altercation with her husband during which her husband slapped
 her. She refused for any legal action therefore, DD NO.84B was
 BABRU
 filed without any further legal action. So, firstly, DD NO.84B BHAN
 was not regarding the harassment or cruelty to wife for demand
 Digitally
 signed by
 of dowry. It was an isolated incident of quarrel between husband BABRU BHAN
 Date: 42. Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as Achin Gupta
 Vs. State of Haryana & Ors. 2024 LiveLaw (SC) 343, has held
 that "In all cases, where wife complains of harassment or ill-
 treatment, Section 498A IPC cannot be applied mechanically.
 Every matrimonial conduct, which may cause annoyance to the
 other, may not amount to cruelty. Mere trivial irritations,
 quarrels between spouses, which happen in day to day married
 life, may not amount to cruelty." 43. Thus, even if it is believed that the relationship between the
 accused Pragya Pradeep and his wife were not cordial and some
 incident of quarrel had taken place in this regard on 27.04.2017,
 same is not sufficient to reach the conclusion that the reason for
 their dispute was demand of dowry. For the purpose of Section
 498A IPC, a single instance of quarrel cannot be recognised as
 cruelty for demand of dowry. It has to be a continuous
 harassment, where each accused plays a specific role. 44. Secondly, the statutory condition mentioned u/s 304B is that the
 harassment and cruelty for the dowry should exist soon before
 the death of the wife. The aforesaid incident where accused
 Pragya Pradeep had allegedly slapped his wife, had occurred on
 27.04.2017 i.e. more than 16 months before the death of the BABRU
 BHAN
 deceased. Therefore, for sake of arguments, even if the aforesaid
 incident is accepted to be a specific instance of cruelty for Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 demand of dowry, same cannot be considered to qualify the Date: First of all, there is no proof to the effect that PW-4 had given the
 said amount to accused Pragya Pradeep. Secondly, PW-4 has
 nowhere stated that the said amount was given as a dowry. Not
 all the money or gifts given to the in-laws of the daughter
 constitute dowry. Dowries specifically refers to money, property
 or goods given by the brides family to the groom or his family as
 a condition or expectation of marriage. The money given under
 the mutual agreement or understanding between the family of the
 bride and the groom cannot classified as dowry. There can be
 myriad of reasons for exchange of money between the relatives. 48. In other words, for the purpose of Section 304B IPC, the
 underline objective of the cruelty which is inflicted upon the
 victim must be dowry. If the cruelty or harassment is inflicted for
 some other purpose including the demand of money, which has
 no relation with the marriage, shall not amount to cruelty for
 purpose of this offence u/s 304B IPC. The definition of dowry
 has been given u/s.2 of Dowry Prohibition Act 1961, which reads
 as under : 49. Thus, as per the statutory definition, dowry means any money or
 valuable security demanded directly or indirectly in connection
 with the marriage. In this case, even if this Court believes the
 allegations that accused Devender was demanding Rs.1 lac from
 the father of the deceased and he had given Rs. 25,000/-. That
 demand not being connected to the marriage, shall not fall within
 the definition of dowry. So, even if, that money was being
 demanded by accused Pragya Pradeep and was repeatedly
 harassing the deceased for the same, that conduct may amount to
 mental cruelty but that cruelty shall not fall within the scope of
 cruelty required for Section 304B IPC. 50. Even otherwise, it is common practice in our society to seek
 financial help from the relatives. Relatives may some time
 include the brothers or the parents of the wife. So, mere demand
 of money in itself cannot constitute cruelty unless and until it is
 accompanied by some physical or mental harassment. Here in
 BABRU
 BHAN
 this case, the testimonies of prosecution witnesses would reveal
 that accused was allegedly demanding money from the father of Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 51. Another argument made on the behalf of Prosecution is that as
 per postmortem report Ex.PW5/A, two bluish bruises of size
 12x5 cm on the left arm and 5x3 cm on the back of knee joint
 were found on the body of the deceased. The contention is that
 these injuries raise suspicion that the deceased was subjected to
 some violence before the incident. Two small bruises, by
 themselves, are not sufficient to evidence to determine that
 deceased was subjected to some violence before her death.
 Bruises can occur from accidental injuries, medical conditions or
 many other non-violent causes. There has to be a comprehensive
 investigation and evidence including the medical findings and
 other circumstances like the pattern of injury, witnesses
 statement or forensic analysis to prove the actual cause of the
 bruises. Therefore, two minor bruises cannot be considered as
 indicative of any foul play. Thus, this argument is also liable to
 be dismissed. BABRU 52. Further, during cross-examination, PW-4 and PW-7, both were BHAN
 given suggestions that accused Pragya Pradeep was an alcoholic
 Digitally
 signed by
 who used to consume liquor every day and used to come late in BABRU
 BHAN
 Date: 53. In view of the above discussion, this Court is of the considered
 finding that although, the prosecution witnesses have levelled
 multiple allegations but none of the allegation is specific. No
 particular instance, manner or specific role of the accused has
 been elaborated. There is nothing concrete on record to show that
 the accused persons were treating the deceased with cruelty for
 demand of dowry. The prosecution has also failed to show any
 conduct on the part of the accused persons, which can be
 considered sufficient to push any ordinary and normal person
 towards suicide. 54. Accordingly, all the accused persons are acquitted of the
 charges u/s 498A / 304B IPC. 55. All accused persons are directed to furnish bail bond in the
 sum of Rs.10,000/- with one surety in like amount in terms of BABRU
 BHAN
 Section 481 BNSS. Digitally
 signed by
 BABRU 56. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. BHAN
 Date: