SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: New Paytm phishing scam alert
DATE: 2018-04-19
SCORE: 338
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8dd2u9/new_paytm_phishing_scam_alert/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was at my house, when the door bell rang. My grandma opened the door to find a guy, supposedly from Paytm, asking if someone wants to complete their KYC.

He had an ID card from Paytm, and wore it around his neck, on top of his Shirt. She wanted to complete it so she called him in. She called me up, asking me in case I wanted to get it done too. The guys asked me to fetch documents to show him. I went and brought them.

He then proceeded to look at them, write somethings down, and then launched an app on his phone, which kinda sorta looked like Paytm. He told us to login to the app to verify our numbers. This is where I felt it was "phishy".

I said I don't remember the password, so let me use forget password from your app, and he got a bit scared. I entered my number in his phone and waited for an OTP, which obviously never showed up.

He told me to reset password from my phone, and then enter the password in his app, as my Paytm only recognises my mobile phone handset. (Yeah, right)

By this point, I had realized he was trying to scam us, and so I told my grandma to take the paper from him on which he had written our details, and our documents away.

I asked him his name, and that spooked him. He dashed out of our house. I couldn't go behind him as me and my grandma were alone in the house at the time. I understood what was going on, but others might not.

So, please, stay vigilant, and never put your passwords on other people's phones. Most of the people use same password everywhere, and access to one password makes all your accounts vulnerable.

---

I tweeted the whole thing, and it just blew up. Some others said they faced the same situation, so thought I'd share with y'all.

EDIT: I am not blaming Paytm here. Just asking you to lookout for things like this, and inform the elderly.