The Indian government has revised the procedure for the Foreigners Identification Portal (FIP), according to an Indian Express report. As part of the revised procedures, the Centre had asked the states and Union territories (UTs) to utilise the fingerprint scanners that are available in districts under the District Police Module (DPM), which comes under the Immigration Visa Foreigner Registration Tracking system (IVFRT).

According to the anonymous officials who spoke with the Indian Express, several states/UTs were facing issues regarding the digitisation of fingerprints, i.e., creating digital records based on the original fingerprints on paper.

Therefore, the central government had asked the states not to use the infrastructure and equipment of the National Automated Fingerprint Identification System (NAFIS) to collect the biometrics of illegal migrants and to detect them on the Foreigners Identification Portal (FIP). “Now onwards, the fingerprint scanners available at districts under the DPM of IVFRT will be used,” said the official.

The National Automated Fingerprint Identification System ( NAFIS ) is a biometric system used by law enforcement agencies and government organisations in various countries to store and manage fingerprint data. This was implemented through the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) by the then Union Home Minister in 2022.

Under this project, NCRB has distributed the fingerprint scanning equipment to all the following bodies:

NAFIS was implemented for the following functions:

A Home Ministry response from December 2024 shows how the NAFIS has helped solve complex cases by matching fingerprints found at crime scenes with the central criminal fingerprint database containing 1.06 crore criminal fingerprint records as of October 31, 2024.

IVFRT is a modernised one-stop service provider for immigration and visa-related applications, offering 24×7 support, foreign registrations, and tracking of foreigners, launched in 2022 by the then Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram.

This centralised information system was launched to:

The following Modules are used to implement the IVFRT:

The Foreigners Identification Portal (FIP) comes under the Ministry of Home Affairs and is used for capturing biographic and biometric data of illegal foreigners. Earlier, IVFRT had conducted several workshops on DPM and other features under IVFRT in Madhya Pradesh , Odisha .

The Minister of Home Affairs has addressed illegal immigration in India several times. In 2004, the Ministry reported that 12 million Bangladeshis were living illegally in India. In 2016, the Ministry revised the estimate, stating that about 20 million illegal immigrants from Bangladesh resided in the country.

After Operation Sindhoor, reports indicated that authorities deported at least 2,000 illegal immigrants . District police in states like Uttar Pradesh also launched special drives to identify illegal immigrants. Oftentimes, the poor and underprivileged, particularly those with inadequate documentation, often bear the brunt of these measures.

Such arbitrary directives for the identification of illegal immigrants can violate human rights and privacy rights. According to a senior official from the UP home department, the police department was directed to “collect the fingerprints of suspected illegal immigrants.” This raises a few critical questions:

If the data is stored in IVFRT through FIP or DPM, then it can have spillover effects. In May 2025, MHA has asked the states and UTs to cross-verify the applicants of Aadhaar, voter ID and ration cards with immigrant databases, such as IVFRT.

More importantly, which database is being referenced to detect the illegal immigrants? Is the Aadhaar fingerprint database being used de facto? Considering the fact that the NAFIS has only 1.06 crore criminal fingerprint records, it is definitely inadequate for a nation of 146 crores estimated population

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event