The Uttar Pradesh police have filed an FIR against five journalists—Zakir Ali Tyagi, Wasim Akram Tyagi, Asif Rana, Saif Allahbadi, and Ahmad Raza Khan—under provisions of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), the new criminal law that has replaced Indian Penal Code, for reporting about a mob lynching case that recently took place in the State’s Shamli district.

मेरे ख़िलाफ़ शामली पुलिस ने लिंचिंग के मामलें को रिपोर्ट करने की वजह से एफआईआर दर्ज की है, यह पहली बार नही इससे पहले भी मेरी रिपोर्टिंग की वजह से मुझ पर 5 बार हमलें हो चुके है, लेकिन हाल ही में मेरे ख़िलाफ़ दर्ज हुई FIR ने ना सिर्फ़ मुझे बल्कि अन्य पत्रकारों को भी आश्चर्य में डाल… pic.twitter.com/ktupZJQ3lL

According to the FIR copy from July 5 shared by Zakir Ali Tyagi on X, the Thana Bhavan police from UP’s Shamli district have booked the journalists under the following Sections:

Recently, the death of Firoz Qureshi, a resident of UP’s Shamli, allegedly by a mob of Hindu men over allegations of theft, sparked concerns about rising incidents of mob lynching in the State. However, according to media reports , the police have failed to invoke provisions relevant to lynching under the new criminal law BNS.

The police have instead booked journalists stating that their reporting of the incident on social media has communalised the incident and can disrupt social harmony. Journalist Wasim Akram Tyagi wrote on X:

“Firoz Qureshi, who was brutally beaten up by Pinky, Pankaj, Rajendra in Shamli, died on the way to the hospital. I had made three posts on X in this case. Now Shamli Police has filed an FIR against me in this case under sections like spreading communal hatred. Those who know the law should read my post and see if an FIR can be made against me on the basis of my post! @dgpup Sir, will your @Uppolice now file an FIR against journalists because they are raising questions? It has been three days since Firoz’s death but the accused have not been arrested yet, and an FIR has been filed against those who raised questions on this.”

शामली में पिंकी, पंकज, राजेन्द्र द्वारा बेरहमी से पीटे गए फिरोज़ क़ुरैशी की अस्पताल ले जाते समय मौत हो गई थी। इस मामले में मैंने @X पर तीन पोस्ट की थीं। अब @shamlipolice ने इस मामले में मेरे ख़िलाफ सांप्रदायिक द्वेष फैलाने जैसी धाराओं में FIR दर्ज कर ली है। कानून के जानकार मेरे… pic.twitter.com/LIueU2slR1

Provisions of BNS enable explicit targeting of online speech:

Unlike their IPC counterparts, both Sections 196 and 353 of the BNS cover statements made through “electronic means.” According to Siddharth Chandrashekhar, Advocate & Counsel, Bombay High Court, this inclusion of electronic communication explicitly targets online speech, making it easier to prosecute individuals for social media posts.

“This specific mention increases the scope for state control over digital discourse, potentially leading to greater censorship of dissenting opinions or reports on sensitive issues (such as mob-lynchings in the present case),” Chandrasekhar stated. He also added that the provisions of the BNS, much like their erstwhile IPC counterparts, appear to be far too broad and vague, allowing for potentially arbitrary application.

Advocate Samar Bansal also emphasised the lack of precision and prevalence of broadness in defining offences in India’s penal laws. This, he states, results in potentially criminalising almost all actions, including legitimate criticism, comment, and reportage.

Bansal explained, “Sections 196 and 353 of the BNS are classic examples of this excessive discretion which has, in practice, resulted in such provisions becoming blunt instruments used for oblique purposes. Legitimate application of these sections would require the police to conduct a good faith assessment of the nature of the reportage to ascertain whether it can be reasonably said that the author intended to promote enmity between groups, cause public nuisance or simply report facts on the ground.”

Secondly, Section 353 of the BNS lays out the punishment for making, publishing, or circulating any statement, false information, rumour, or report, which may cause fear among the public, and incite communities to act against each other. However, it also includes an exception which reads as follows:

“It does not amount to an offence, within the meaning of this section, when the person making, publishing or circulating any such statement, false information, rumour or report, has reasonable grounds for believing that such statement, false information, rumour or report is true and makes, publishes or circulates it in good faith and without any such intent as aforesaid.”

According to Bansal, the exception can help an accused journalist establish that her publication was innocent as she had “reasonable grounds” to believe the “false statement” was true at the relevant time.

Further, Chandrasekhar opined that the alleged offence in the present case can be “construed to fall under the Exception to S.353 and hence S.353 ought to have been dropped by the authorities.” Importantly, the effectiveness of the provision also depends on the judicial interpretation and assessment of what constitutes “reasonable grounds.”

“However, it is important to note that this defence will be relevant only at the stage of trial by which time, due to the vagaries of the criminal process, she may have already been subjected to arrest, incarceration and the harassment of attending hearings before a criminal court in the event of a prosecution. Since in most cases the process is itself the punishment, it is more important for the police to have a more sensitised and constitutionally directed free-speech-friendly approach at the stage of exercising discretion whether to register the FIR itself,” Bansal added.

New criminal laws and their impact on digital rights:

The three new criminal laws—Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita 2023, Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita 2023, and Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam 2023—replacing the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) and the Indian Evidence Act repectively, came into effect on July 1.

The earliest versions of the new criminal bills drew much criticism for their impact on people’s digital rights and freedom of speech. The Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, in particular, brings in various provisions of the Indian Penal Code to bring them under a digital remit. In the process, as MediaNama had explained in the past, the BNS expands the scope for criminalising various kinds of online speech, such as satire, a commentary on topical events, and dissent against State’s actions. Read a detailed analysis of the three new criminal laws here .

The government had reintroduced the three bills in the parliament in December 2023. However, the Standing Committee had recommended only a handful of changes to the original versions, retaining most of the provisions related to digital speech in the BNS. Read about the changes made to the bills here .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event