SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Please help me pay for college, i don't have any other option left. I just want to go college. Help me please
DATE: 2019-02-06
SCORE: 538
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/anpdnq/please_help_me_pay_for_college_i_dont_have_any/

--- POST TEXT ---

*FINAL UPDATE*: Thanks everyone for your support and advices. My mind was going through so much within past week that i broke multiple times and i thought i really don't have any other option than ask for money. As i said in the first line of my original post, i don't deserve it, and now i realise that i really don't. I got lots of positive advices and tips which i will follow up. I know i really didn't tried enough before coming here begging for money, i shouldn't have. I don't deserve. 

I know its hard to believe for you my story, it was hard to believe for me too. How can a person who loved his family can lose all his money on betting/gambling. Yep that's my dad for you. He really did it. I still can't believe. I am sorry i begged you all. I am sorry i was in hurry for quick cash from you (a comment notification i just got).

The sole reason i came here because i didn't know how to ask help from college, like what do i say? "My dad lost his money in gambling, so help me with that", they wouldn't care, why would they. 

When i did wrote this post i never really thought i would get this many comments, there are still 85 notifications. I don't know how to verify my story. It's ok, if you think its fake. I hope this is fake and this all is a dream for me. 

To all the people, who gave me support, thanks again. 

To everyone who told me to work, yes i will do it. I just made this post without thinking. I was not prepared for this to come, so i wasn't ready to just work. My mind is really messed up now, i just don't its not that fucking depression.
I know working and earning is the best solution for me, But even if i start working today, i can't really pay for this semester cause till when i will make enough money this semester is gonna end that's why i made a post to beg money.

I never thought of year break, which now seems the best option for me. Thanks for this advice.

To everyone who thinks i am scammer, you just got a solid thing to prove your point, because i am removing my donation link. Yes i am scammer, and I can't prove my thing. Fuck me. But really your comments helped me too making me realise that getting money is not easy. Thanks for that.

I was just mentally broked up and nervous, and thousands of thoughts were going in my mind, so i just made a post for desperate help. I literally thought getting money from funding is easy, and all i was planning for how will i complete my next two years. 

I re-read my own post and to me too it seems such a scam. I wouldn't donate money to me. 

Fuck you dad.

I just want to write so much more, but i really don't know what to write. My life has become such a mess in no time. I can't really imagine whats next for me.

I promise you all i will work hard from today. I don't know what i will do but i will do something. I will come back from this. 

Thank you for all your support, i will read all the comments again tomorrow. Some of them really helped me today. Some comments almost broke me again. Some new comments i have yet to read. I will remember this post forever. I am gonna remember this day. I don't believe in god but may god give me enough power to overcome from this.

Today i realise why everyone believes in god, its because in your hard time god gives you faith. Fuck me guys

Thank you
...............

Update: Thank you everyone for all your support and doubts. As suggested by many gofundme.com, it's not available in India. So i tried ketto.org and impactguru.com, both sites have taken my application under review. There was an option to share my donation link on impactguru, so i am sharing it here, it is still not verified though and also i am not able to edit my story, i wanted to add more details but i just can't edit idk why.

[Link removed]

As for people telling to apply for edu loan, i did applied but it didn't got cleared, here's the proof: http://imgur.com/a/05eaAbP

The site didn't updated but the manager has already told me that he can't do it mid year and apply again next year, i really don't know why the loan didn't passed, my dad just told me this.

____________

I am begging you all. I know i don't really deserve it, i am not the brightest in studies, but i want to give myself last chance.

My dad fucked up the financial condition of my family. And it's bothering me so much. I can't really depend on him now.
He lost a lot of money in betting/gambling and now is in debt. I know that's all my father's fault and for his fault i don't really want to drop out of college mid-sem when i was not really prepared for this.

This is my 4th sem, third week of college is going on and I am still sitting at home. I didn't attend a single day in college this semester. Please help me pay this semester fees. I don't know what i will do for the next four semesters, how i am going to arrange money for that, maybe i will drop out, but till then at least i will be prepared for dropping out. Now i am not. My father has fucked up so bad was like a bomb dropping on me. In college, he didn't let me realize that so much problems are going in family. In this winter break when i returned home that's when i realized the situation is too bad. That's why he asked me to apply for education loan again and for whatever reason the manager didn't pass it, saying he can't do this mid year etc etc.
Its not only my fees that is not paid but my younger sisters school fees too. But I don't really care about that now. I just care now is for going back to college anyhow.

Please don't tell me in this thread how to earn money etc. I will make a separate thread for that because now i don't got time to earn and pay college fees. All i could ask now is your help and donations for this sem. I don't know how i am going to pay for next two years, but I promise each and everyone of you i will work hard. Maybe i will write code, work part time, serve table, beg or suck my chairman's dick. I don't really know what's coming ahead of me in my life but please help me this time. 

I am short of ₹38000 for college fees and another ₹45000 for my hostel fees. Since hostel accepts part payment i will be good if i pay them ₹20000 now. 
So in total i need ₹58000 now to attend college. I don't know if i can raise this much for college. But anything raised will be better than nothing.

I don't know any crowd funding sites so please help me with that. I don't really know what to do now please help me. I was not really prepared for this. Everything seems to be on verge of destroying for me. 

I WAS NOT PREPARED FOR THIS DAD. I hate you.

PLEASE HELP ME r/india

Edit: here are college fees and my dues details: https://imgur.com/a/67ZKJSc

I can't find the receipt now, i am still finding it. The paid fees details are taken from my college portal. I request anyone of you to take some time and i will message you my college login id to verify this from college website. You can call my college and ask. 

As for hostel, i didn't got a fee structure for that nor i got my payment receipt, because i never thought it was important to keep. I can give my hostel warden contact to verify, if someone is willing to do. 

Thanks for all your support! 
I will post the funding link only when someone verify as i saw a comment that this is a scam. I know, if i saw something like this without proof i wouldn't trust, i know you want proof. Please help me verify. 
Please suggest a site for crowdfunding too which is easy to set up now.

Edit 2: here i found something for hostel receipt. I transferred through phonepe so here is the details from that. https://imgur.com/a/51U6H1l

Hostel fees is ₹80k for three seater cooler, from which i paid ₹35k in starting and nothing agter then, i don't got any details because they didn't provided. The most i can do is give contact of hostel and someone can call and verify.