SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: At the age of 23, I have finally pass class 10!
DATE: 2021-05-04
SCORE: 1663
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/n4p7cj/at_the_age_of_23_i_have_finally_pass_class_10/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone, hope you're all staying safe and healthy during this difficult time.

My name is Rishiraj Chakravarty, some of you may remember me from my earlier posts here. I asked for some help and many of you responded and some even helped me out financially. I will be forever grateful for that.

I just wanted to let you all know that I have finally cleared my class 10 exams. This is absolutely a "Pappu pass ho gaya" situation for me. If you're wondering why it took so long for me to pass, well I dropped out of school when my mental and physical health started deteriorating and my family could no longer afford to send me to a regular school. I joined NIOS in 2014 and ever since then my physical and mental health issues got the better of me and I couldn't think straight... Forget studying, I had no will to live. After four psychiatrists failed to help me in any way, I decided to fight my demons myself and I conquered them.

Right now, I just want some advice. My financial situation is still disastrous and with the pandemic raging on, I fear what is going to happen to us. On my previous post a person offered me a content writing internship, I was very grateful for it but unfortunately at the time I was going through far too many problems and uncertainties that I couldn't deliver what was asked of me. The internship was for a month with a possibility of extending it, but I quit after a month since an acquaintance was pursuing me for a call centre job, I also had to take care of many problems and go out of town with my mother as she was trying to get a job. The call center job didn't last long and my mother didn't get the job either. I still feel guilty that I couldn't deliver as per expectation during the internship and I left so abruptly.

So what do I do now? What can a 10 pass guy do to survive? What kind of job should I pursue? I am already registered at a consultancy service, and I have appeared for two interviews but I didn't get hired. When looking for jobs online I have found most of the ads are actually from consultantcies. I still haven't used any of the crowdfunding money, it is still my backup plan to buy a scooter and be a Swiggy delivery boy.

There's more than enough scam call centres here in Guwahati, they will hire me without a second thought but I cannot bring myself to scam other people no matter how bad my situation may be. I worked for one scam centre briefly and I absolutely hated it.

Also, before I am called a fraud again I want to make it absolutely clear I am not asking for money. I just want some advice.