1. Vide this order, I shall dispose off the application under order 9 rule 13 CPC . The plaintiff has filed his reply. Arguments heard on behalf of both the
parties. I have also perused the record. 2. The defendants seek setting aside of the decree dated 05.12.06 on the
ground that they have not been given a fair opportunity of being heard. It is
submitted that they first came to know of the present suit when one of the
officers of the plaintiff company told them about the pendency of the execution
proceedings before the Ld. District Court, Allahabad. Further, it is submitted that
after this, the defendants inspected the present file when came to know that it
was stated that they had refused summons which were sent to them through
courier for 31st January,2005. It is submitted that some fraud has been played by
the plaintiff in this regard as summons never reached the defendant. Hence it is
prayed that the ex-parte decree may be set aside and defendants may be
allowed to contest the suit. 3. The counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the present application is
liable to be dismissed as summons were duly served on the defendants.
Reliance has been placed on the returned courier packets which have a
endorsement " refused to accept". The counsel for the plaintiff has also relied on
the courier receipt and the proof of delivery status obtained from the courier M /s Seagull Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. v. Surender Katyal Suit no.54/11 Page 1 of 3 company's website. It is submitted that as per the provisions of CPC , if the
summons are sent through courier, they are refused to be accepted, then that
shall amount to proper service. 4. Admittedly, summons can be served through courier also and if the same
are refused, then it shall be deemed to be a proper service. However, Order 5
rule 9 (5) CPC provides that in case of refusal, they should an endorsement by
the person authorised by courier service that the defendant or his agent had
refused to take the delivery of the articles. In the present case, the endorsement
merely states " refused to accept". It does not state as to who refused the
summons. Hence, in this circumstances, it can not be presumed that it was the
defendant who refused the summons. Benefit of doubt should be given to the
defendants. 5. The counsel for the plaintiff further argued that the defendants have
themselves stated that they were in touch with an official of the plaintiff company
and hence they were aware of the suit. However, a presumption of knowledge of
the suit can not be taken to the prejudice of the defendants. 6. The counsel for the plaintiff further argued that the application is barred by
way of limitation as the suit was decreed in 2006 while the application has been
moved in 2010. The defendants have submitted that they filed the application as
soon as they became aware of the execution proceedings. The counsel for the
plaintiff has argued that even then the application is time barred as in the
execution also, the defendants were served on 24.10.09 as noted by the Ld.
Executing Court. Reliance has been placed on the certified copy of the
ordersheet. The present application is accompanied with an application u/s 5 ,
Limitation Act. As it has been noted by this court that summons were not
properly served on the defendants, their right can not be defeated merely on the
ground of limitation which can be compensated with costs. Hence, delay is
condoned and application is allowed subject to cost of Rs. 3000/-. The ex-parte M /s Seagull Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. v. Surender Katyal Suit no.54/11 Page 2 of 3 decree and judgment dated 05.12.06 are set aside. Let the copy of the plaint and
documents be supplied to the defendant within a week from today upon which
the defendant shall file his Written Statement within thirty days. Ahlmad is
directed to restore the suit to its original number. Put up for filing of Written Statement for 24.01.2012.