SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Fraud call - grandma transferred 20K and was about to transfer 1L
DATE: 2025-04-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jtfe9y/fraud_call_grandma_transferred_20k_and_was_about/

--- POST TEXT ---

Today morning, my grandma received a fraud call, saying my father has been arrested and we need to transfer 20K initially. She was with my sister at home and everyone was at work. 

She told my sister my father has called and needs 20K. My sister is young, and they both dont use UPI and this person went along and shared the bank details. My grandma went to money transfer shop and transferred 20K. Till this point neither adult member of our family knows about this. Now she calls me (I don't pick up) and my aunt. Turns out they were asking for 1L more. I called my grandma, and she was worried and said nothing happened, but I knew something was fishy. And meanwhile to my aunt she told that 1L is needed there has been some issue. I called my sister immediately and understood it was a fraud. 

We tried calling our Dad, but he was in a meeting and was cutting our calls. Then we called our grandma and told her not to entertain this anymore. My aunt was unaware of the exact conversation and when I told her about it she immediately recognized it as fraud too. 

My grandma is well educated and still got trapped with this fraud. I am just not sure how to educate our elders. My father and everyone is quite aware of this and yesterday itself we informed her about the same. Daily people entertain these calls, now we have IVR messages and videos of educating people too. 

Still just because my grandma is a kind of person who does not share her worries much and is attached to each one of us got trapped in this fraud. 

Is there some way we can reverse the transaction as it was a bank transfer? Can someone help out how we can increase awareness of this because it is just not about the money, it is about draining our savings. Had I not known about anything I would have transferred 2L immediately. 

We need our family members who are introverts to share everything, even if we are outside home. This has hit something personally. 

I am sorry for writing this much and even if it is not for this group or this flair. I just want our families to stay safe, please reiterate the points to your elders once every two days so they know this fraud can be easily avoided. 

Take care everyone.