PER ANADEE NATH MISSHRA:A.M.

(A) This appeal vide I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 has been filed by the
assessee for assessment year 2015-16 against impugned appellate order
dated 19/06/2019 of learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
[learned "CIT(A)" for short]. (A.1) At the time of hearing before us on 16/08/2023, the assessee was
neither present himself nor was represented by anyone. The Revenue was
represented by Shri Sanjeev Krishna Sharma, Senior Departmental
Representative. It was informed by learned Sr. D.R. that the notice of hearing has
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 2 Assessment year:2015-16

been served on 11/07/2023 on the mother of the assessee. The
acknowledgement in original along with copy of forwarding letter of the Assessing
Officer [Income Tax Officer-1(1)(1), Kanpur] was also filed by learned Sr. D.R. for
Revenue. On earlier occasions, this appeal was fixed for hearing on 02/02/2022,
10/03/2022, 06/04/2022, 19/05/2022 and 07/06/2023 but the notices of hearings
were returned back by postal authorities with the remark 'left'. Eventually for the
hearing fixed in Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ("ITAT" for short) on 16/08/2023,
the learned Sr. D.R. was requested on 07/06/2023 to serve the notice of hearing
on the assessee. As mentioned earlier, the notice of hearing, fixed for hearing on
16/08/2023, has been served on the assessee's mother. Accordingly, we have
decided to proceed with the hearing and dispose off this appeal. In the absence
of any representation from assessee's side, we heard the learned Sr. D.R. for
Revenue. He relied on the order of learned CIT(A). Relevant part of the order of
the learned CIT(A) is reproduced as under: vi. Numerous statements of the brokers/operators/Directors
of the papers companies/ directors of penny stock companies
have confessed and accepted in statements recorded on oath
regarding the modus operandi adopted in the scam of bogus
LTCG. The same is elaborated and reproduced by the AO in his
assessment order. I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 5 Assessment year:2015-16

 vii. Many individuals/entities have admitted the bogus claim
 of LTCG/STCG without any enquiry by any authority and also
 withdrawn their claim by filing the revised returns there by
 accepting there wrong claim of exemption u/s 10(38) of the
 Act. This strengthens the case of revenue. viii. A search u/s 132 of the Act was conducted in the case of
 Shri Subodh Agarwal and Rich Udhyog group of cases on
 28.04.2015, wherein the script of M/s Sulabh Engg. & Services
 Ltd. & M/s Nikky Global Finance Ltd. was involved. The search
 proceedings were challenged in writ petition no.458/459 of
 2015 at Allahabad High Court. Hon'ble Allahabad High Court
 after perusing the satisfaction note and all the seized material
 dismissed the his writ petition and observed that this group is
 involved in 'clandestine activity of taking cash and making
 dubious transactions in cheque, thereby laundering the money'. 7.2 Thus, from the above detailed observations, it is evident that
appellant was one of the beneficiary of such bogus Penny Stocks
scheme for converting his black money into white without the
payment of taxes in the garb of bogus claim of exemption u/s 10(38)
of the Act. Appellant purchased shares through off market trade and
could not substantiate the purchases of shares. Appellant has nothing
except the paper work of contract note to explain his case. It is
settled preposition of law that, if an, exemption is claimed by the
appellant then it is for the appellant to prove that, such claim is
genuine. AO has dealt with at length to successfully establish that, the
cheque received for the sale of penny stocks shares are part and
parcel of scam of bogus Penny Stock in the garb of exemption u/s
10(38) of the Act Also, A.O. has discussed at length the methodology
adopted by the appellant artificially rigged the share price of Penny
Stock through circular trading The astronomical increase in share
price of the Penny Stock is against the proportional increase in share
market and against the share at that relevant time. Various share
broker/operator/director of paper entities/exit operator have accepted
their wrong doing in the sworn statement recorded before statutory
authorities, which is very relevant evidence against the appeliant.
Independent investigation conducted by investigation directorate,
Kolkata and SEBI have corroborated the findings of A.O., regarding
the scam of bogus claim of LTCG/STCG. A.O. has recorded the finding
of fact that exit provider or the purchasers of Penny Stock at such
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 6 Assessment year:2015-16

astronomical prices are person without established credit capacity or
creditworthiness. A.C. has also established the fact that exceptionally
high share prices of Penny Stock are without any economic and
financial basis. In the present fact of the case, undersigned is of the
view that, the claim of appellant is non-genuine, concocted bogus and
fabricated. Case laws cited by the ld. A.R. are on their own footings
and distinguishable on facts as much as no detailed enquires were
conducted in the case cited by the appellant, whereas, in present
facts of the case, detailed enquires were conducted by the
Investigation Wing of the department. All the inquiry, examination
and investigation establish that company providing STCG/LTCG is
merely a paper Company and indulged in creating bogus STCG/LTCG.
Moreover, at every stage, appellant is unable to prove the
genuineness of said STCG except reiterating that all paper relating to
transaction are available on record. Further, undersigned finds the
ratio laid down by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of M/s.NDR
Promoters Pvt. Ltd. Vs. PCIT ITA No. 49/2018 dated 17.01.2019 very
relevant Para-13 & 14 of the said judgment is reproduced here-in-
under: Hon'ble Supreme Court in its latest landmark judgement in the
case of PCIT (Central)-1 Vs. NRA Iron Steel Pvt. Ltd. SLP (Civil) No.
29855 of 2018) dated 05.03.2019 has held the similar view. The
relevant observation in para 11 to 14 is reproduced here in under: a. The companies Hema Trading Co. Pvt. Ltd. and Eternity
Multi Trade Pvt. Ltd. at Mumbai, were found to be non-existent
at the address given, and the premises was owned by some
other person,

b. The companies at Kolkatta did not appear before the A.O.
nor did they produce their bank statements to substantiate the
source of the funds from which the alleged investments were
made. c. The two companies at Guwahati: viz. Ispat Sheet Ltd.
and Novelty Traders Ltd., were found to be nonexistent at the
address provided. The genuineness of the transaction was
found to be completely doubtful. The enquiries revealed that the investor companies had filed
returns for a negligible taxable income, which would show that
the investors did not have the financial capacity to invest funds
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 9 Assessment year:2015-16

ranging between Rs. 90,00,000/-to Rs. 95,00,000/- in the
Assessment Year 2009-10, for purchase of shares at such a
high premium. For example: I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 10 Assessment year:2015-16

 The lower appellate authorities failed to appreciate that the
 investor companies which had filed income tax returns with a
 meager or nil income had to explain how they had invested
 such huge sums of money in the Assessee Company - Respondent. Clearly the onus to establish the credit worthiness
 of the investor companies was not discharged. The entire
 transaction seemed bogus, and lacked credibility. The Court/Authorities below did not even advert to the field
 enquiry conducted by the AO which revealed that in several
 cases the investor companies were found to be non-existent,
 and the onus to establish the identity of the investor
 companies, was not charged by the assessee 14. The practice of conversion of un-accounted money through
 the cloak of Share Capital/Premium must be subjected to
 careful scrutiny. This would be. particularly so in the case of
 private placement of shares, where a higher onus is required to
 be placed on the Assessee since the information is within the
 personal knowledge of the Assessee. The Assessee is under a
 legal obligation to prove the receipt of share capital/premium to
 the satisfaction of the AO, failure of which, would justify
 addition of the said amount to the income of the Assessee." In the instant facts of the case ratio laid down by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in its latest landmark judgement in the case of PCIT
(Central)-1 Vs. NRA Iron Steel Pvt. Ltd.SLP (Civil) No. 29855 of 2018
dated 05.03.2019 and Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
M/s.NDR Promoters Pvt. Ltd. Vs. PCIT are squarely applicable. 7.3 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal Vs. CIT 82
ITR 543 has observed that if the purchases are not proved and the
human probability of preponderance of the transaction is in favour of
the revenue then the credits can be treated as unexplained. Further,
in the case of Sanjay Bimal chand Jain vs. PCIT in ITA no. 18 of 2017,
Hon'ble Bombay High Court has held that, "Bogus LTCG from Penny
stocks: The assessee has not tendered cogent evidence to explain
how the shares in an unknown company worth Rs.5 had jumped to
Rs. 485 in no time. The fantastic sale price was not at all possible as
there was no economic or financial basis to justify the price rise. The
assessee had indulged in a dubious share transaction meant to
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 11 Assessment year:2015-16

account for the undisclosed income in the garb of long term capital
gain. The gain has accordingly to be assessed as undisclosed credit
u/s 68 of the Act." 7.4 It is trite law that, In order to claim the exemption from
payment of income tax, the assessee had to put before the Income
Tax authorities proper materials which would enable them to come to
a conclusion [35 ITR 312 (SC)]. It is also the principal of section 68 of
the Act that, initial onus is on the appellant to established identity,
credit capacity of the creditor and genuineness of transaction. In the
present facts of the case, appellant has not produced any cogent
evidence to discharge the onus casted on his. On the contrary AO has
established the non-genuine nature of alleged transaction through
various enquires conducted by SEBI and investigation wing of the
department. Appellant has not placed any material before the
undersigned to dislodge the findings recorded by the AO. Thus, the
actions of the applicant to credit STCG are nothing, but a
premeditated, contumacious conduct, surreptitiously done for specific
reasons for converting unaccounted money of the appellant under the
guise of long term share transactions, that too without paying the
requisite tax on the same. This is clearly in the realm of tax evasion.
On the other hand, from the above facts and surrounding
circumstances, human conduct, preponderance of probabilities etc.,
the AO has clearly established that the impugned transaction is not
made for an investment, i.e. the motive is not to derive income but to
earn a profit that too by an arrangement one and it is manipulated
transaction in collusion with the brokers to paint creditworthiness to
the transaction and claim exemption u/s. 10(38). This is. in
accordance with the ratio laid by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Sumati
Dayal Vs Commissioner Of Income-Tax , 214 ITR 801(SC), that" the
apparent must be considered the real until it is shown that there are
reasons to believe that the apparent is not the real and that the
taxing authorities are entitled to look into the surrounding
circumstances to find out the reality and the matter has to be
considered by applying the test of human probabilities. (See CIT v.
Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 SC (at pages 545, 547).
Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Kale Khan Mohammad Hanif.Vs
Commissioner of Income-Tax, M. P. And Bhopal in 50 ITR 1 (SC) held
that" it is well established that the Onus of proving the source of a
sum of money found to have been received by the assessee is on him.
If he disputes liability for tax, it is for him to show either that the
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 12 Assessment year:2015-16

receipt was not income or that if it was, it was exempt from taxation
under the provisions of the Act. In the absence of such proof, the
Income-tax Officer is entitled to treat it as taxable income. Govindarajulu Mudaliar y. Commissioner of Income-tax 34 ITR 807
SC. Various case laws cited by the appellant are on their own footings
and are not applicable to the facts of the instant case because
elaborate enquiries and statements on oath for brokers/sub
brokers/entry providers/beneficiary are discussed by the AO in his
assessment orders and that was not the case in the judgement cited
by the ld. A.R. In the following judicial pronouncements credit entries
received were treated, as unexplained and liable to be taxed u/s 68 of
the Act, if the creditors were entities/persons involved in providing
accommodation entries. i. CIT vs. Nova Promoters & Finlese (P) Ltd. [2013] 342 ITR
 169 [Delhi],
 ii. CIT vs. D. K Garg [2017] 84 taxmann.com 257 [Delhi]
 iii. Mrs. Vidhya Reddy vs. ITO [2018] ITAT Chennai order in ITA No. 2016/chny/2017 dated 15.05.2018. iv. Income Tax Officer vs. Shamim M. Bharwani I.T.A.
 No.4906/Mum/2011 order dated 27/03/2015

 Thus, it is concluded that, claim of the appellant about
exempted STCG u/s 10(38) of the Act are non-genuine, concocted,
fabricated, unsubstantiated and bogus. 7.5 On the issue of cross examination, undersigned is of the view
that, statements of share brokers, operators, promoters & exit
providers were shown and confronted to the appellant. Further,
Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the well known Dhakeswari Cotton Mills
(26 ITR 775 at 782) case, ruled that the Evidence Act may have no
application to tax assessment proceedings. However, the court also
clarified later, in Chuharmal vs CIT (172 ITR 250 at 255 SC), that
when the taxing authorities are desirous of invoking the principles of
the Evidence Act in proceedings before them, they are not prevented
from doing so. All that is required is that whatever material they
collect will have to be placed before the tax-paying assessee if
adverse inference is going to be drawn - audi alteram partem is a
well-known principle of natural justice. This principle is established by
the judgment of the Supreme Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v.
C.I.T. (26 I.T.R. 775, 783), and applied by that court in Kishinchand
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 13 Assessment year:2015-16 Chellaram vs C.I.T. (125 I.T.R. 713), where an assessment based on
the result of private inquiries conducted behind the back of the
assessee was set aside because the evidence so gathered was not
placed before the assessee. In Gunda Subbayya v. C.I.T. (7 I.T.R. 21, 28), Leach CJ said: In the case of P. S. Barkathali v. Directorate of Enforcement, New
Delhi AIR KER 81, the Hon'ble High Court observed as under: Further, jurisdictional Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case of Motilal Padampat Udyog Ltd. Vs. CIT 293 ITR 656 has laid down the
correct preposition of law of cross examination and held as follows: In the instant case all the incriminating statement has been
 shown to the appellant who has not challenged the content of the
 incriminating statement. Therefore it is concluded that, AO has
 followed the principal of natural justice by producing and confronting
 all the incriminating documents and statements recorded in favour of
 revenue to the appellant. 7.6 As regards to the grounds of appeal of the appellant related to
 addition of Rs. 53,500/- being unexplained commission paid @ 3%, it
 is noted that undersigned has recorded the categorical findings that
 transaction of LTCG is concocted and fabricated, hence commission
 paid in cash amount to Rs. 53,500/- being 3% of the value of
 transaction LTCG is to be treated as unexplained. Therefore, this
 ground is dismissed. 7.7 Therefore, in view of the above stated detailed discussion on
 the factual matrix of the case and the judicial pronouncements cited
 here-in-above, undersigned finds no reason to interfere with the
 addition made by Assessing Officer, which is hereby confirmed and
 grounds of appeal of the appellant are dismissed. 8. All other grounds of appeal are general in nature are treated as
 dismissed." (B) The aforesaid impugned appellate order dated 19/06/2019 of learned
CIT(A) has been perused by us carefully. We find that the learned CIT(A)
has passed a detailed order giving due consideration to facts and
circumstances, applicable law and relevant case laws. No material has been
brought to our attention to take a view different from the view taken by
learned CIT(A) in the aforesaid impugned appellate order dated 19/06/2019.
Therefore, we decline to interfere with the impugned appellate order dated
 I.T.A. No.471/Lkw/2019 15 Assessment year:2015-16

19/06/2019 of learned CIT(A), and accordingly, we dismiss this appeal filed
by the assessee. (C) In the result, the appeal of the assessee stands dismissed. (Order pronounced in the open court on 21/08/2023)

 Sd/. Sd/.