While food delivery platform Swiggy has addressed queries regarding grocery deliveries after a user accused the company of underweighting their Instamart package, concerns still loom over the quality of fresh produce sold by e-commerce platforms in India.

Recently, after a consumer posted on Reddit claiming they had received ‘underweight’ groceries from Swiggy’s quick commerce venture Instamart, it sparked a conversation online. After the user decided to weigh the vegetables, they discovered that instead of the 1850 grams of vegetables originally ordered, what they received only 1280 grams worth. The user claimed that Swiggy’s customer support and escalation team refused to replace the items and persistently insisted on a partial refund, observing that it tried to “play smart with words” instead of fulfilling the requirements.

While their issue was resolved, the customer cautioned others against blindly trusting the weight stickers on fresh groceries and falling for discounts. “Do actually check them and raise [a] complaint when deviation [is] observed”, they added.

Swiggy also received flak from several other social media users stating that the platform keeps pulling “shady, manipulative tricks”. Users also alleged that the platform consistently underweighs groceries as a standard practice. “They’re probably raking in crores every single day from these ‘small errors”, the user claimed.

However, others also noted that the incident could be an error owing to a particular local warehouse that Instamart works with. Likewise, Sachin Taparia, founder of consumer community platform LocalCircles, dismissed the possibility of such a system. He explained, “This is a one-off, not a systemic issue. I don’t believe there is any organised malpractice”.

MediaNama reached out to Swiggy with the following additional questions:

In response, MediaNama received the following statement:

“At Swiggy Instamart, merchants undergo a thorough vetting process before they are onboarded, which includes verifying certifications such as FSSAI. Once onboarded, they are mandated to ensure that all supplies are subjected to rigorous quality checks and any shipment that doesn’t meet the criteria is completely rejected. This particular instance is an anomaly by the merchant, and we are investigating how it happened. We take customer feedback seriously, and the issue has been resolved with the customer. Customer trust is our top priority, and we remain fully committed to upholding the highest standards of transparency to ensure such instances do not occur.”

As per a survey done by LocalCircles, despite the availability of multiple apps delivering fresh groceries directly to the consumer’s doorstep, 66% of respondents preferred purchasing the same from weekly or local markets. Conversely, only 7% of consumers bought fruits and vegetables online via e-commerce/grocery/quick delivery apps.

Barring the convenience of such online platforms, customers also raised other problems on such platforms including high prices and difficulty in the grievance redressal process among others. However, 73% of users of online grocery platforms cited low quality of produce as their key concern.

When asked about the key difference between consumer experience on online grocery platforms versus traditional outlets, Taparia flagged the average quality of fresh produce online. He stated that while shopping from local outlets, customers consciously choose the best fruits and vegetables; however, in online channels, the same is outsourced to online vendors.

Furthermore, in response to a query about whether the rapid delivery times promised by quick commerce platforms contribute to the poor quality of fruits and vegetables, Taparia explained that these factors don’t link. “Low quality only becomes a problem when the produce is average. To address this, procurement needs improvement, and online platforms require better backend management”, he added.

In 2017, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, and Public Distribution amended rules relating to the production and sale of packaged commodities within the country. Termed The Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodity) Amendment Rules, 2017, the laws stipulated that pre-packaged commodities must display information like the ‘Best Before’ date, expiry date, and maximum retail price (MRP), among others.

However, after LocalCicrles survey revealed that 35% of users couldn’t find the expiry date on products across multiple apps and platforms, the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) served notices to multiple e-commerce companies over the violation of Mandatory Declaration Rules under the Legal Metrology Act.

In November 2024, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) also called a meeting with various quick commerce platforms including Instamart following concerns raised by the All India Consumer Products Distributor Federation (AICPDF) over such platforms selling near expired products.

Recently, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a trader’s body raised concerns about quick commerce platforms misusing foreign direct investment (FDI) to fund deep discounts that ultimately stifle the business of small retailers including Kirana stores across the country. Additionally, insights from a survey by Local Circles revealed that customers ignore shortcomings such as poor quality of fresh groceries and difficult return/refund processes in light of competitive prices and good discounts on online platforms. However, with the reduction of these discounts, customers soon flocked to buy fruits and vegetables from local stores again. To gain insight and perspective regarding the impact of poor-quality groceries sold online on local traders, MediaNama reached out to CAIT with more questions and is awaiting their response.

We will update the post as soon as we hear back from them.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event