Telecom operator Vodafone Idea recently introduced an artificial intelligence (AI) powered spam SMS detection solution aiming to create a safe messaging experience for users.

The spam management solution, which integrates AI and Machine Learning (ML), has notified over 24 million spam messages since its initial testing phase, the company claimed. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) approved the pilot program during a review meeting with telecom companies in March last year.

A trained AI algorithm would be deployed to ensure real-time monitoring of incoming messages, identifying potential threats like fraudulent links, as per the company’s press release . Further, the machine learning feature will ‘learn’ from incoming data patterns like phishing links and commonly used phrases in spam messages to improve detection over time. Finally, the messages identified as spam will be denoted as “Suspected Spam” to warn users instantly.

In September of this year, Bharti Airtel launched a similar network-based AI-enabled spam detection solution with auto-activation for its customers. In addition to providing alerts about spam calls/messages, the system would also warn users of malicious URLs in SMSs. The move followed a direction by TRAI in June 2023, calling upon access providers to deploy AI and ML-based spam detection systems.

Following Airtel’s launch, government-owned telecom provider Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) also announced plans for a similar spam detection system to be unveiled at the India Mobile Congress 2024.

Vodafone Idea’s announcement comes soon after a plea by telecom operators urging the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) to promptly notify the draft guidelines to curb spam calls and messages, Business Standard reported . Issued in June, the guidelines aimed to prevent consumer rights violations caused through unsolicited business communications like SMS, voice calls, etc received by consumers.

Besides this, in September 2024, TRAI also proposed a major overhaul of its 2018 spam regulations, initiating a consultation for the same. There was discussion of separating regulations for individual and enterprise-level spammers, as well as a possible modification of telecom providers’ spam detection system. Responding to this, Truecaller suggested the collaboration of telecom providers with third-party apps for AI-enabled spam solutions, while Hindustan Unilever advocated for adequate safeguards by telecom companies before instituting any AI systems for spam detection.

As per a 2023 survey of 11,157 mobile subscribers conducted by LocalCircles, 66% received spam calls daily. Further, 92% of the respondents claimed receiving spam calls despite registering it for the ‘Do Not Disturb’ (DND) list. Moreover, the Truecaller Insights 2017 report disclosed that an Indian Truecaller user receives an average of 22.6 spam calls per month, a figure higher than 20 other countries affected by the same issue. In 2017, TRAI launched a Do Not Disturb (DND) app for filtering spam calls with a separate complaint section. However, MediaNama reported that users experienced long wait times for complaint resolutions and found the portal unsatisfactory. Currently, the revamped version of the app TRAI DND 3.0 is available for download across Android and Apple devices.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event