(a) The serial no. of the case : 4365/01/08 (b) The date of commission of offence : 10.06.1996 (c) The name of complainant : Mohamad S/o Sh. Mohd. Brief statement of the reasons for the decision: 2. Charge sheet was filed in the court and in compliance of Section 207 accused persons were supplied the documents.
Thereafter vide order dated 16.10.1998, charge u/s 420 / 34 IPC was
framed against accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial. 3. In order to prove the charges against the accused, prosecution
examined six witnesses. A brief scrutiny of the evidence recorded in the matter is as FIR No. 416/96 2/26 under: 4. PW 1 HC Veer Bhan deposed that on 14.06.1996 he was
posted at PS Nangloi as DO and on that day on receipt of rukka sent
by ASI Ajit Singh, he registered the case FIR No. 416/96 as
Ex.PW1/A. 5. PW 2 Ct. Ramesh Chand deposed that on 16.06.1996 he was
posted at PS Rohini and on that day, IO ASI Hari Kishan handed over
him a rukka for registration of the case and he went to PS and got the
case FIR registered and came back at the PP Prashant Vihar and
handed over the rukka and copy of FIR to IO ASI Hari Kishan. 6 He further deposed that on 17.06.1996 he along with IO ASI
Hari Kishan went to the house of accused Rajender and Surender
and arrested the accused persons and accused Rajender made a
disclosure statement as Ex.PW2/A. Accused Rajender pointed out
the place where he had kept the TV make BPL and got recovered the
TV from Najafgarh. He deposed that his statement was recorded by
the IO. This witness further identified the case property as Ex.P1. 7. During his cross examination he stated that he does not
remember where IO Hari Kishan handed over him the rukka for
registration of the case nor the time. He stated that on 17.06.1996 FIR No. 416/96 3/26 they went to the house of the accused and he was arrested from
there. He stated that on the pointing out of the accused, TV was
recovered and accused Surender was also arrested. He stated that
he does not remember the address of the place from where accused
Surender was arrested. He denied the suggestion that he did not join
the investigation of this case or IO obtained his signatures on the
already prepared papers to make him a witness in this case. He
stated that he cannot tell the size i.e. size of the screen in inches
which was recovered. He denied the suggestion that the TV was
never recovered in his presence. He stated that he cannot tell any
identification mark of the TV except its make BPL. He denied the
suggestion that he was deposing falsely. 8. PW 3 K.B. Nambiar deposed that he had worked with Shree
Ram Electronic as Manager from September 1992 to November
2000. He deposed that on 10.06.1996 he was present at the above
mentioned shop and at about 5.00 pm, two gentlemen came there
and asked for a colour TV saying that he had to give it in his
daughter's marriage. He deposed that he sold BPL colour TV and
made the delivery challan Ex.PW3/A at Raj Nagar address. They told
that payment will be made after installing the TV at the given address.
He deposed that they told him to send the delivery boy so that they
(accused persons correctly identified) can make the payment after
the installation. He deposed that he told his delivery men namely Mr.
Mohd. to collect the payment after the installation. The two gentlemen FIR No. 416/96 4/26 (accused persons) brought the Maruti car at their shop and took the
TV along with Mr. Mohd. but before leaving, he had noted down the
number of the car i.e DHN-355 Blue colour. He deposed that they
were waiting for Mohd. for cash but at about 8.00 pm they got a
telephone call somewhere from Nangloi area that he was given some
cold drink en route and he felt unconscious and they had taken away
him to unknown destination. The matter was reported to police by
them and police recorded his statement and that of Mohd. He
deposed that the case FIR was registered on the basis of statement
of Mohd. i.e. Ex.PW3/B. Thereafter, the aforesaid TV was got
recovered from the accused persons and was taken on superdari by
the partner of their firm namely Sh. A.C. Sachidanand. He deposed
that the model number of the TV was EBR Chasis No. 06612 D
71-75911 make BPL and the same was identified by him in the PS
after the recovery. This witness further identified the case property as Ex.P1. 9. During his cross examination he stated that he had noted the
number of the Maruti car on a slip which was neither given to the
police nor was in his possession any longer. He stated that his
statement was recorded at PS Vasant Kunj but he does not
remember the name of that police official. He admitted that this type
of TV is easily available in the market. He stated that he had
identified the TV from its model. He denied the suggestion that this
was not that TV which was sold. He stated that Mohd. signed in Hindi FIR No. 416/96 5/26 language. He stated that Mr. Sachidanand had given a challan to the
police which was in his hand writing. He stated that he did not tell the
description of accused persons to the police. He stated that he had
seen the accused persons in the Court only after the date of incident.
He stated that police recorded his statement once i.e. on 10.06.1996.
He stated that he had never given any statement on 25.06.1996 to
the police Mark A. He stated that he does not know how the
statement was recorded. He denied the suggestion that accused
persons had been falsely implicated in this case. 10 PW 4 SI Satya Prakash deposed that on 14.06.1996 he was
posted at PS Nangloi and on that day, complainant Mohd. S/o Sh.
Mohd. Gulab along with Sh. Nambiyar came to PS. He deposed that
complainant made his statement Ex.PW3/A and he endorsed the
same and the case was registered. He deposed that during the
investigation, he visited the spot and prepared the site plan
Ex.PW4/B. He deposed that regarding this he had also received DD
No. 28 A dated 10.08.1996 from PS Vasant Kunj. Thereafter, he
recorded the statement of the witnesses and brought the accused
persons to PS Rohini. He deposed that accused persons were
arrested in this case and he handed over the disclosure statement to
SI. He deposed that after the recovery of the TV, the pointing out
memo and the seizure memo Ex.PW4/A was handed over to him. He
deposed that he filed an application for production warrants of
accused persons as well as for conducting their TIP but the accused FIR No. 416/96 6/26 persons refused to take part in the TIP proceedings. He deposed that
the statement of the witnesses were recorded and thereafter, he
prepared the challan and filed the same in the Court. 11 During his cross examination he stated that he was the IO in
this case from the beginning to last. He stated that the accused was
already in custody in some other case and his custody was obtained
by him by way of production warrants. He stated that the accused
was required for TIP, which he refused. He admitted that when the
accused was handed over to him in the court against the production
warrants his face was unmuffled. He stated that he does not know if
the accused was already shown to the complainant. He stated that
there was a public witness i.e. the shop keeper from where the TV
was taken. He admitted that no other person was inquired about the
fact of this case. He voluntarily stated that there was no need in view
of the fact that one was the shopkeeper and the other was his
employee and the offence was also committed in their presence, so
he did not think it fit to inquire from any other person. He denied the
suggestion that the accused had been falsely implicated in the
present case by the complainant and shopkeeper Nambiyar. He
denied the suggestion that the accused had not committed any
offence or he was deposing falsely. 12 PW 5 Mohd. Jiyauddin deposed that in the year 1996 he was
employed at Shri Ram Electronic, Vasant Kunj as Delivery man. He FIR No. 416/96 7/26 deposed that on 10.06.1996 at about 5.15 pm, two persons came to
their shop and choose one 20' colour TV make BPL and then owner
of his shop namely Nabiyar asked him to deliver the said TV in Maruti
car which was in possession of accused persons (correctly identified).
He deposed that he put the said TV in their Maruti car and Nambiyar
directed him to collect the payment from the accused persons and
hence, he also accompanied them in their Maruti car along with TV.
Thereafter, the accused persons stopped the car on the way for food
and also asked him regarding the food but he refused. He deposed
that thereafter, accused persons again stopped their maruti car near
a hotel and they got down from the maruti car and brought a pepsi for
him and on their request, he drank it and after some time they
stopped their car and he got down from the maruti car for urinal and
when he saw back he found that the accused persons had been fled
away in their maruti car along with the TV. He deposed that he felt
some irritation in his stomach and he sat there for about 20 minutes
and he asked the passer by regarding the locality and came to know
that he was in Rajdhani Park. He deposed that he informed the whole
story to his owner Mr. Nambiyar. He deposed that first of all his
statement was recorded at PS Vasant Kunj and then PS Nangloi as
Ex.PW3/B. He further deposed that on 14.06.1996 TV was recovered
from the accused persons. This witness further identified the case property as Ex.P1. 13 During his cross examination he stated that he remained in FIR No. 416/96 8/26 employment at that shop for a short period but he had no proof of his
employment. He stated that he cannot tell the chasis number of the
TV. He stated that the owner of the said shop might had noted with
him the registration number of the car but he did not note down the
same himself. He stated that two persons had put the TV in the car.
He stated that he does not know from which shop the pepsi was
taken nor he can tell about the place where he got down from the car.
He stated that he had never seen the accused after the incident nor
he had ever been asked by anyone to identify the accused. He stated
that he cannot tell about the clothes which were worn by the accused
persons. He stated that he also cannot tell who was driving the maruti
car on that day. He denied the suggestion that he had been tutored
as a witness in this case. He denied the suggestion that accused
persons had never taken any TV in his presence or he was deposing
falsely. 14 PW 6 ASI Hari Kishan deposed that on 16.06.1996 he was
posted at PS Prashant Vihar as ASI where one person namely Sh.
Jagdish Chand came to PS and informed that accused Surender
Singh and Rajender Singh Rohilla (correctly identified) had taken a
TV from his shop by cheating him regarding which case FIR bearing
No. 245/96 was registered. He deposed that during the investigation,
accused Surender and Rajender Singh Rohilla also disclosed that
they had also cheated one another person for a TV from Nangloi area
regarding which PS Nangloi was also informed. 15 During his cross examination he denied the suggestion that no
disclosure statement was recorded in his presence but signatures of
the accused persons were taken on the blank papers. He denied the
suggestion that no TV was recovered pertaining to this case in his
presence by him. He denied the suggestion that the accused persons
had been falsely implicated in this case at the instance of the
complainant. He denied the suggestion that pointing out statement
was recorded. He stated that he does not know the make of the TV. 16. This is all as far as prosecution evidence in the matter is
concerned. 17. I have heard the arguments advanced at bar by the learned
defence counsel and also learned APP. I have carefully gone through
the evidence recorded in the matter and perused the documents
placed on record by the prosecution in this case. 18. In order to prove its case and establish the guilt of the accused
the prosecution has to prove that the accused persons namely
Rajender Singh Rohilla and Surender Kumar cheated complainant
Mohamad S/o Mohd. Gulab and Sh. K.B. Nambiyar by dishonestly
inducing them to deliver to them a TV make BPL having no intention
to pay the amount/valuable consideration for the same. 19. After hearing the rival contentions raised at bar as well as on
careful scrutiny of the material on record, I am of the considered
opinion that the prosecution has successfully brought home the guilt
against the accused persons. 20 It stands proved from the deposition of complainant Mohamad
Jiyauddin and K.M. Nambiyar that they were cheated by the accused
persons and induced to deliver a colour TV for which the accused
persons had no intention whatsoever to make the payment. 21 Complainant Mohamad was examined as PW 5. He proved that
on 10.06.1996 while he was employed at Shri Ram Electronics,
Vasant Kunj as delivery man, both the accused persons came to the
above said shop and he was asked by his employer Sh. Nambiyar
(PW3) to accompany both the accused persons as was requested by
them in their Maruti car along with the TV and after installing the TV
at the house of the accused persons collect the payment regarding
the same. However, on way, the accused persons gave him a pepsi
after drinking which he felt for a need to go for urinal/ease himself.
When he stepped out of the car, the accused persons fled away from
the spot along with the TV. 22 This witness proved that his statement was recorded by the
police and the same is on record as Ex.PW3/B. He correctly identified
the accused persons in the Court as well as duly identified the case FIR No. 416/96 11/26 property i.e. the TV as Ex.P1. 23 Deposition of the complainant was duly corroborated by PW 3
Sh. K.B. Nambiyar. 24 Sh. K.B. Nambiyar duly supported the deposition of PW 5. He
proved that on 10.06.1996, the accused persons came to Shri Ram
Electronics where he worked as Manager and asked for colour TV
submitting that it was to be given in the daughter's marriage. He
proved that he sold a BPL colour TV to the accused persons vide
delivery challan Ex.PW3/A and at the request of the accused persons
sent delivery man Mr. Mohamad along with the accused persons to
install the TV at the place asked by the accused persons and
thereafter collect the payment as was requested by the accused
persons. He proved that the accused persons had brought their
maruti car for taking the delivery and he had noted down the number
of the car which was DHN-355. This witness further proved that at
around 8.00 pm, he was informed by Mr. Mohamad (PW 5) via
telephone that the accused persons gave him a cold drink after
consuming which he felt unconscious and thereafter, the accused
persons fled away with the TV. He proved that his statement and that
of Mr. Mohamad was recorded by the police who also gave his
complaint as Ex.PW3/B.

25 He correctly identified the accused persons in the Court as well FIR No. 416/96 12/26 as duly identified the case property i.e. the TV which was recovered
from the accused persons as Ex.P1 when the same was produced
during trial as well proved the delivery challan as Ex. PW3/A.

26 Hence, both the complainant and eye witness duly proved
incident dated 10.06.1996 and correctly established the identity of the
accused persons as well as the TV in question. 27 The accused persons were arrested in case FIR no. 235/96 by
ASI Hari Kishan (PW 6) and it was during their interrogation that the
accused persons disclosed about the commission of the present
offence. Disclosure statement of accused is on record as Ex. PW2/A.
ASI Hari Kishan then informed PS Nangloi regarding the disclosure of
the accused persons vide DD No. 10 A and thereafter, on an
application of SI Satya Prakash (PW 4), the production warrants of
the accused persons were issued and they were arrested in the
present case. IO SI Satya Prakash further proved that he prepared the site
plan as Ex.PW4/B and arrested the accused persons and also seized
the TV in question vide Ex.PW4/A which was already
seized/recovered vide Mark A by officials of PS Rohini. 28 PW 2 Ct. Ramesh Chand who was on investigation along with
ASI Hari Kishan (PW 6) in case FIR No. 235/96 proved that on
17.06.1996 he along with ASI Hari Kishan went to the house of FIR No. 416/96 13/26 accused Surender and Rajender, both of them were arrested and
accused Rajender made a disclosure statement Ex.PW2/A on the
basis of which and on the pointing out of accused Rajender, the TV in
question was recovered. 29 FIR was proved as Ex.PW1/A by HC Veerbhan (PW1). 30 During the course of arguments, Ld. Defence counsel
vehemently argued that the prosecution story suffers from various
loopholes and in fact, prosecution has miserably failed to bring home
the guilt against the accused persons. It was argued that in his cross
examination PW5 failed to give satisfactory answers to the question
put to him for example who was driving the car at the time of incident,
what clothes the accused were wearing, where they left him and
allegedly fled away etc. which shows that he was deposing falsely at
the instance of the police officials. It was further argued that no
public person was joined in the investigation and prosecution is solely
relying upon the testimony of the complainant and his employer. It
was argued that there is an inordinate delay in the FIR i.e delay of
around four days which has not been explained by the prosecution
and which in itself casts serious doubts upon the prosecution story. It
was argued that the prosecution story does not inspire confidence.
There is no signature of any of the accused persons on Ex.PW3/A,
no proof of any payment whether cash or by way of cheque regarding
the TV in question which shows that the transaction as alleged by the FIR No. 416/96 14/26 prosecution was never entered into in between the accused persons
and the complainant. It was argued that complainant Mohamad on
whose complaint the present FIR was registered was never examined
and instead in his place one Mohd. Jiyauddin has been examined
and they are two different persons and Mohd. Jiyauddin has no
connection with the present case. It was also argued that no medical
examination of the complainant was got conducted by the IO to
substantiate his claims that he was made to drink certain intoxicating
substance because of which he felt unconscious. Lastly it was argued
that PW 3 admitted in his cross examination that he had not handed
over the chit on which the number of the Maruti car was noted down
by him to the police which shows that he had deposed falsely
regarding the accused persons taking away the TV in the Maruti car
and it also proves that the prosecution has failed to connect the
accused persons with the Maruti car in question, more so when the
car was not recovered. 31 However, I do not agree with either contentions of the Ld.
Defence counsel. 32 To begin with the contentions that no public person was joined
in the investigation, in my opinion, the said arguments are devoid of
any merit as firstly, the Indian Evidence Act does not specify any
particular number of witnesses required to prove a fact and a fact can
be proved even by one witness whether he is official or independent FIR No. 416/96 15/26 public witness depending upon the facts and circumstances of the
case. Law requires that evidence has to be weighed and not counted
(Ambika Prasad and Ano. Vs State 2002 (2) CRIMES 63 (SC). 33 Reliance can be placed upon Chittar Lal v. State of
Rajasthan, (SC) 2003 Cri.L.J. 3548 wherein it was held: 34 Secondly, the Ld. Defence counsel seems to have lost sight of
the fact that the present prosecution was lodged at the instance of
complainant Mohamad Jiyauddin who was examined as PW 5 and
who fully supported the prosecution story. Apart from the
complainant, Mr. K.B. Nambiyar who was examined as PW 3 lend
due credence to the prosecution story/deposition of PW 5. I find no
reasons why they would depose falsely implicate the accused
persons. There is nothing on record to suggest that the complainants
and the accused persons knew each other prior to the incident or that
the complainants were inimical to the accused persons. Defence has
failed to prove any motive which could be assigned to the
complainants for falsely implicating the accused persons. They were
the aggrieved persons and their testimony which withstood the grilling
cross examination by the Ld. Defence counsel itself sufficient to bring
home the guilt against the accused persons. 35 Mere because during his cross examination PW5 (complainant)
failed to give satisfactory replies regarding the place where he was
left behind by the accused persons, what clothes they were wearing
or who was driving the car does not mean that he was a tutored FIR No. 416/96 17/26 witness/was deposing falsely. The incident occurred in the year 1996
and deposition/cross examination of the witness was recorded in the
year 2001 i.e. after five long years. Human memories are apt to blur
with time. After gap of five years no one can be expected to give a
parrot like version or minutely or with mathematically precision
narrate about an incident five years old. Minor contradictions are
natural and not fatal in the present case. The discrepancies which
are due to normal errors of perception or observation should not be
given importance. The errors due to lapse of memory may be given
due allowance. It's a well settled law that once the eye version is
given particularly by the injured himself, the Court would normally rely
upon such version of the prosecution unless it suffers from serious
infirmities or improvements. ( Balbir Singh v. State of Punjab, (P&H )
2003 Cri.L.J. 3148) and State of Gujarat v. Bharwad Jakshibhai
Nagribhai, (Gujarat) (DB) 1990 Cri.L.J. 2531. In Bharwada
Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat , AIR 1983 SC 753, it has
been observed that a witness though wholly truthful, is liable to
be overawed by the court atmosphere and the piercing cross-
examination made by counsel and out of nervousness mix up
facts, get confused regarding sequence of events, or fill up
details from imagination on the spur of the moment, but that
would be no ground for discarding the evidence of the witness. 36 The contentions that complainant Mohamad was never
examined by the prosecution is not only devoid of any merits but is FIR No. 416/96 18/26 baseless and contrary to the records. Complainant Mohamad whose
complaint Ex.PW3/B formed the basis of the present prosecution was
examined as PW 5. Merely because in his complaint he had stated
his name as Mohamad only while in his deposition in the Court he
had stated his name as Moh. Jiyauddin has no relevance
whatsoever. It is proved from the material on record i.e Ex.PW3/B as
well as the various documents which includes the address of the
complainant, the statement/deposition of PW 3 Sh. K.B. Nambiyar
that Mohamad Jiyauddin who was examined as PW 5 is the same
person i.e. Mohamad S/o Mohd. Gulab whose complaint Ex.PW3/B
formed the basis of the present case FIR. 37 Another bald contentions of the defence that there is delay in
the lodging of the FIR which has gone unexplained and which shows
that the complaint/prosecution is a false one, can easily be put to rest
in view of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled
as "Mehmood Vs. State of UP (SC) 2008 (1) RCR (Criminal) 130
and State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Gian Chand (SC) 2001 (2)
RCR (Criminal) 666 wherein it has been held that delay in lodging
FIR if explained by the prosecution is not fatal for the prosecution
story and mere delay cannot be used as a ritualistic formula for
doubting the prosecution case. Further reliance may be placed upon
the law laid down in " Basudeo Yadav v. Surendra Yadav & Ors.,
(SC ) 2009 A.I.R. (SC) 546, State of Himachal Pradesh v. Gian
Chand, (SC) 2001(2) R.C.R.(Criminal) 666, Harbans Kaur v. State FIR No. 416/96 19/26 of Haryana , (SC) 2005(3) J.T. 233, Harpal Singh v. Devinder
Singh, (SC) 1997 Cri.L.J. 3561, Ramanbhai Naranbhai Patel v.
State of Gujarat, (SC) 2000(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 93 and Zahoor v.
State of U.P., (SC) 1991(Sup1) S.C.C. 372 wherein it has been
observed that "delay in recording FIR is not a factor vitiating
prosecution. Even a long delay can be condoned if the
witnesses have no motive of implicating the accused and have
given a plausible reason as to why the report was lodged
belatedly". 38 Similarly observations were made in State of UP Vs. Chet
Ram (SC ) 1989 AIR (SC) 1543. In the present case, the incident
occurred in the late evening on 10.06.1996, complainant Jiyaddin
informed Sh. Nambiar (PW3) at around 8 p.m. and complaint
regarding the same was made on the very next day at PS Vasant
Kunj vide DD No. 28 A which is on record. The said DD reflects that it
was assigned to SI Satya Prakash and kept pending while matter was
investigated. Finally, the FIR was registered on 14.06.1996. This
shows that the complainant had acted diligently and informed the PS
regarding the cheating he suffered at the hands of accused persons.
However, as has been and is the approach of Delhi Police, they
desist from registering the FIR so as to lower the crime graph/index.
But the question is why should the innocent citizen suffer because of
this shameless and work shirking approach of the Delhi Police. 39 One of the arguments raised by the Ld. Defence counsel in
defence of the accused persons was that prosecution failed to prove
that any transaction on 10.06.2006 was in fact entered in between by
the accused persons and the complainant as Ex.PW3/A does not
bear the signatures of the accused persons which show that accused
persons never visited the showroom of the complainant or purchased
the TV as alleged. This contention has no merits as it stands proved
from the deposition of PW 3 & 5 that only delivery challan was
prepared and the payment was to be made only after installation of
the TV by PW 5 at the site as requested by the accused persons. But
no occasion arose for the payment whether by way of cash or cheque
as the accused persons fled away with the TV leaving behind PW 5
i.e complainant Mohamad. 40 The contention of the defence counsel that the complainant did
not give the chit on which the number of the car was noted down by
him and the fact that the car was admittedly never recovered shows
that the accused persons never visited the showroom in the car
alleged and hence, Sh. K.M. Nambiar was deposing falsely has no
significance whatsoever. Firstly, the number of the car was
mentioned in the complaint as well as the DD no. 28A of PS Vasant
Kunj. Secondly, the case property was the TV and the same was
duly recovered from the possession of the accused. Thirdly, it came
up in the investigation that the number plate as was implied on the
Maruti Car was a forged one and in fact, of a stolen scooter which is FIR No. 416/96 21/26 otherwise evident from the registration number. Because of this
reason the Maruti Car could not be recovered during the
investigation. Further more, as discussed above, the identity of the
accused persons was duly established by both the complainants.
The accused persons refused to take part in the TIP proceedings.
Application of the IO and the TIP proceedings are on record. Though
they were produced in un-muffled face however from the deposition
of PW3 and PW5 it is crystal clear that they would have
firmly/correctly identified the accused persons and hence, the
accused persons feared the same therefore, refused to take part in
the TIP proceedings. 41 Ld. Defence counsel also submitted that no medical
examination of the complainant Mohamad was got conducted by the
IO to substantiate his claim that he was made to drink pepsi because
of which he became unconscious/felt a need to go to urinal and this
shows that the complainant was telling a lie. However, I am not
inclined to give any emphasis on the submissions of the Ld. Defence
counsel. Firstly, a time gap of around 4-5 hours elapsed till the time
Mohamad Jiyauddin (PW 5) brought the matter to the knowledge of
PW 3 and even more time elapsed before the matter was brought to
the notice of police. After such a long period hardly any sample would
have remained for the IO to collect and sent them for examination in
the laboratory. Moreover, complainant Mohamad Jiyauddin was taken
from Vasant Kunj to a place in Nangloi which he was not familiar with FIR No. 416/96 22/26 and may be he was not in a position to pin point the exact
location/spot where the accused persons left him behind and fled
away in their Maruti car. Nonetheless, the law is well settled that an
accused should not be allowed to go scot free merely on account of
faulty/negligent investigation. Every faulty investigation or padding in
evidence cannot by itself lead to total demolition of prosecution case
if it can otherwise stand ignoring these fallacies. ( Lakshmi v. State
of UP (SC ) 2002 (4) R.C.R. (Criminal) 82). Mere faulty investigation
cannot be made basis of acquitting the accused when sufficient
evidence is available to nail him (Ram Parshad v. State of Haryana,
(P & H) (DB) 1992(3) R.C.R (Criminal) 231). In Zahira Habibulla H.
Sheikh v. State of Gujrat (SC), 2004 (4) S.C.C 158 and State of UP
v. Jagdeo (SC) 2003 A.I.R. (SC) 660 , the Hon'ble Apex Court held
that accused should not be acquitted solely on account of the defect
in investigation. To do so would tantamount to playing into hands of
investigating officer if investigation is designedly defective. (Balwant
Singh v. State of Haryana, (SC) 1995 A.I.R. (SC) 84 and Amar
Singh Vs. Balwinder Singh 2003 AIR SCW 717). 42 Regarding the last contention that ingredients of Section 420 IPC are not made out against the accused it will be worthwhile to
have a glance at the ingredients of the said provisions of IPC and the
law laid down by the Apex Court. Section 420 deals with certain
specified classes of cheating. It deals with the cases whereby the
deceived person is dishonestly induced to deliver any property to any FIR No. 416/96 23/26 person or to make, alter or destroy, the whole or any part of a
valuable security or anything which is signed or sealed and which is
capable of being converted into a valuable security. Section 415
defines "cheating". The said provision requires, (i) deception of any
person (ii) whereby fraudulently or dishonestly inducing that person to
deliver any property to any person or to consent that any person shall
retain any property or (iii) intentionally inducing that person to do or
omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so
deceived, and which act or omission causes or is likely to cause
damage or harm to that person in body, mind, reputation or property.
Deception of any person is common to the second and third
requirements of the provision. The said requirements are alternative
to each other and this is made significantly clear by use of disjunctive
conjunction `or'. The definition of the offence of cheating embraces
some cases in which no transfer of property is occasioned by the
deception and some in which no transfer occurs. Deception is the
quintessence of the offence. 43 The essential ingredients to attract Section 420 are: (i)
cheating; (ii) dishonest inducement to deliver property or to make,
alter or destroy any valuable security or anything which is sealed or
signed or is capable of being converted into a valuable security and
the (iii) mens rea of the accused at the time of making the
inducement. The making of a false representation is one of the
ingredients for the offence of cheating under Section 420. (Bashirbhai Mohamedbhai v. State of Bombay (AIR 1960 SC 979), Ajay Mitra v. State of M.P., (SC) 2003(1) R.C.R.(Criminal)
674, Devender Kumar Singla v. Baldev Krishan Singla, (SC)
2004(2) J.T. 539. 44 There must be inducement on the part of accused and
inducement should be made fraudulently or dishonestly with a view to
deceive a person and as a result of inducement the person so
deceived delivered property to accused persons or gave consent that
accused persons shall retain the property. As was observed by the
Court in Shivanarayan Kabra v. State of Madras (AIR 1967 SC 986) it is necessary that a false pretence should be made in express
words by the accused. It may be inferred from all the circumstances
including the conduct of the accused in obtaining the property. In the
true nature of things it is not always possible to prove dishonest
intention by any direct evidence. It can be proved by number of
circumstances from which a reasonable inference can be drawn. Suryalakshmi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Rajvir Industries Ltd. , (SC )
2008(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 652, S.W. Palanitkar v. State of Bihar,
(SC) 2001(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 572 and Alpic Finance Ltd. v. P.
Sadasivan, (SC) 2001(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 756. 45 In the case at hand, from the facts and circumstances of the
case as well as the deposition of PW 3 & PW 5 it is amply clear that FIR No. 416/96 25/26 both the accused persons had no intention whatsoever from the very
inception they entered the shop to make the payment in respect of
the TV in question. In furtherance of their game plan, they did not
make the payment at the time they purchased it i.e. when the
challan/invoice i.e PW 3/A was prepared, they gave a fake address
on the challan and they dumped the delivery man/complainant
Mohamad Jiyauddin on their way to the alleged/fake site of
installation. CONCLUSION 46. Hence, in view of my above discussion, accused persons are
held guilty U/s 420 IPC and is accordingly convicted for the said
offence. 47. A copy of this judgment be supplied to the accused free of cost
and the matter be now listed for arguments on the point of sentence. Both accused persons are present on bail along with their
counsel. Further final arguments heard. Put up for orders at 4.00 pm.

 At 4.00 pm

 Vide my separate judgment announced today in Open Court
accused Rajender and Surinder Kumar Sharma have been held guilty u/s 420 / 34 IPC. Matter be now listed for arguments on the point of sentence on
07.02.2011. (Gaurav Rao)
 MM (West)/Delhi. 03.02.2011. IN THE COURT OF GAURAV RAO: Both convicts are present on bail. Vide judgment announced on 03.02.2011 accused
Rajinder Singh and Surinder Kumar were held guilty and convicted u/s 420 / 34 IPC. The learned defence counsel submitted that convicts have
been facing trial for the last more than 14 years and the same itself
has been enough punishment for them. It was submitted that the
convicts are around 55 years of age, have large family to look after
including daughters of marriageable age and they are the sole bread
earner in their respective families. It was further submitted on behalf
of accused Rajinder Rohilla that he suffered from paralytic attack few
years back and is not keeping good health since then. It was also
prayed the accused persons be given benefit of section 360 Cr.p.c.
i.e to release the accused persons on probation of good conduct. Per contra, learned APP has very vehemently argued that
the act of the accused persons is unpardonable. It was submitted
that the accused persons are involved in numerous cases of
cheating i.e. around 8-10 cases including case FIR no. 416/96,
425/96, both PS Nangloi, 492/96 PS Paschim Vihar, 589/96 PS
Vikas Puri etc. It was further submitted by the Ld. APP for State
that the accused persons are involved in several other cases
however, the accused persons have mentioned different and
fake addresses in the police stations and hence, it has become
difficult to find out their other involvements. After giving my thoughtful to the submissions made at bar I am
of the considered opinion that taking into account the long drawn
trial as well as the age of the accused persons, it shall meet the
ends of justice if the accused persons are sentenced to undergo
three years RI along with fine of Rs. 5000/- each for offence u/s 420 IPC. In default of payment of fine they are directed to undergo further
SI of 30 days. Benefit of section 428 Cr.P.C. is given to accused
persons (Accused Surinder: 25.06.1996 to 01.10.1996, Accused
Rajinder Rohilla : 25.06.1996 to 24.09.1996) The accused persons
are further directed to pay a compensation of Rs. 25,000/- each to the
complainant Sh. K.M. Nambiar and Mohd. Jiyauddin. Benefit of probation is not given to the accused persons as the
accused persons seem to be habitual cheater. They are involved in
numerous cases of cheating/fraud. Numerous innocent citizen have FIR No. 416/96 29/26 suffered at their hands. I order accordingly. At this stage, an application u/s 389 Cr.P.C. has been moved
by the accused persons for suspension of sentence. As the accused
persons were on bail during trial they are admitted to bail on
furnishing bail bond in the sum of Rs. 10,000/- each with one surety
of the like amount for 30 days. Bail bonds furnished considered and
accepted. Fine amount and compensation amount not paid. A copy of this order be given to the convicts free of cost.
 File be consigned to Record Room.