The United States House of Representatives has passed a bill prohibiting data brokers from selling US citizens’ sensitive data to “adversary countries” (including China, North Korea, Russia, and Iran) or any entity controlled by an adversary country. The bill, titled “Protecting Americans’ Data from Foreign Adversaries Act of 2024” defines entities controlled by an adversary country as:

Data brokers who fail to comply with the bill will be subject to penalties by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).

The bill lists sixteen separate categories for sensitive data including—

Data brokers are organizations that collect personal information from a range of sources, analyze it, and license it to other organizations for their use. They also purchase information from companies or provide data processing services to companies. Companies use data licensed from a data broker to fine-tune their marketing strategies. Some businesses also use this data for risk assessment like a bank might use data to analyze whether a specific customer is likely to default on a loan.

Notably, the bill’s definition of data brokers slightly differs from this one. As per the bill, data brokers are entities that sell, license, or rent data of US individuals, which they “did not collect directly from such individuals to another entity that is not acting as a service provider.” Service providers here include—

This bill follows a trend of the US fencing up its data from foreign adversary countries. It comes soon after US President Joe Biden’s executive order to prevent large-scale transfers of Americans’ sensitive personal data to ‘certain countries of concern’ that have a track record of collecting and misusing American data. The intent behind this order was to use bulk sensitive personal data to develop artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities and algorithms that could target United States persons for espionage or blackmail.

The US House of Representatives has also recently passed the “Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act” which proposes to penalize app stores in the country from listing TikTok or any other application developed or provided by TikTok’s parent company ByteDance.

The bill exempts data brokers who transmit data on behalf of a US citizen. It also exempts those companies who make news or information available to the general public (like news content, a radio program, or information from a telephone book or online directory). This information should not include an obscene visual depiction. Further, service providers are also exempt from the scope of the bill.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event