While the US is taking steps to counter ransomware by offering rewards, consolidating resources, and forming task forces, evidence shows that the same threat grows more pertinent in India.

The US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) is collaborating with tech giants such as Amazon, Google, and Microsoft to fight ransomware and defend cloud computing systems from hackers, according to a report by The Wall Street Journal.

As per CISA, the tech giants are among the firms that have signed on to be a part of the Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative which intends to combine government and private skills and resources to fight hackers.

Why it matters? Ransomware is a programme that hackers use to hold digital information hostage. According to a Datto Inc. report , ransomware remains the most prominent malware threat in the USA with over 4,000 ransomware cases being reported daily. The country also witnessed the biggest global ransomware attack when an American-based IT firm called Kaseya was attacked last month which affected hundreds of businesses. Following this, US President Joe Biden had expressed concerns over the rising number of cyberthreats, including ransomware attacks. According to a cybersecurity firm called SophosLab, India also tops the list of countries most affected by ransomware attacks.

According to a report by Forbes , the Biden administration announced a slew of measures that is going to be implemented in order to combat cyberattacks in the USA. A few of them are listed below:

Ransomware should be a cause of concern in India as well, according to cybersecurity firms and experts. The findings of a report by cybersecurity firm Checkpoint Research revealed that India faces 213 weekly ransomware attacks per organisation – up by 17 percent since the beginning 2021.

Similar views were reciprocated by Lt. General (Dr.) Rajesh Pant, National Cybersecurity Coordinator, Government of India in his keynote address at an online discussion held by MediaNama in partnership with the CyberPeace Institute on July 28, 2021. Highlighting the challenges that ransomware attacks pose, Pant said that 2020 was the year of phishing whereas 2021 is going to be the year of ransomware.

A few key takeaways on the issue of ransomware from the online discussion:

Also read

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama and post your comment

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event