These three appeals have been filed by the Revenue assailing the

correctness of three separate orders dated 25.03.2011 of CIT(A), Meerut

pertaining to 2006-07 to 2008-09 assessment years. All these appeals are being

decided by a common order for the sake of convenience, as the issues raised

therein all inter-linked. 2. The relevant facts of case are that the assessee's premises No.P-2/18,

Kailash Dham Society, Sec-50, Noida were subjected to a search operation on

15.02.2008. Subsequently, search warrants in respect of lockers Nos.270 and

234, Axis Bank, Sec-18, NOIDA in the name of the assessee and his wife were

issued and accordingly, the said lockers were also searched on 03.03.2008.

During the course of the search operation, the following cash and jewellery were

found:- and Rs.1,75,94,790/- respectively. The additions have been made by the AO in

the three years under consideration. Most of these were more or less deleted in

appeal by the CIT(A) leading to the filing of these three appeals by the Revenue. 4. In ITA No.3150/Del/2011 the Revenue is before us on the following

grounds:- 5. Inviting attention to Ground No. 1, it was submitted by the Ld. CIT DR

that in the remaining 2 years also an identical ground has been raised by the

Revenue as Ground No.1. Accordingly it was her submission that the

 Page 2
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

arguments advanced here would address the identical ground in those two

appeals also. Addressing the ground raised it was submitted by her that the

Revenue is aggrieved by the action of the CIT(A) in accepting fresh evidences.

On query it was conceded that a Remand Report has been obtained from the AO

by the CIT(A). Thus the Ld.CIT DR was required to show how Rule 46A was

stated to be contravened. However, no further arguments despite a query were

advanced. 6. The Ld. AR heavily relying upon the submission advanced before the

CIT(A) for admission of fresh evidences submitted that lack of opportunity,

before the AO was borne out from the record. This fact has not been assailed by

the CIT DR. Referring to the same it was submitted that the photocopies of the

seized material supplied by the Investigation Wing, Ghaziabad were admittedly

not legible and a written request was made vide letter dated 13/04/2009 to

supply the same. After repeated requests finally legible photocopies were made

available on 12.11.2009 for each of the years. Thus, after re-fixing the hearing

finally time only upto 15.12.2009 was provided to the assessee and the

assessment was concluded on 23.12.2009. The third party independent

supporting evidences of deposits in the bank accounts it was submitted could

not be gathered in the time available. Thus, the evidence in the form of

confirmation from creditors and payees were filed as fresh evidences and

considering the Remand Report finally filed and independent verification and

recording of statements of deponents by the CIT(A) himself, the order has been

passed. Accordingly it was his submission that more than adequate

opportunity has been given to the Revenue by the CIT(A) to place its objections

to the fresh evidences placed on record and thus relying upon the finding of the

CIT(A), it was submitted that on facts there is no violation of Rule 46A and

 Page 3
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

infact the AO has repeatedly been most reluctant for reasons best left

unaddressed to place a Remand Report on record. 7. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available on

record. On a consideration thereof, we find that since legible photocopies of the

seized material required to be addressed by the assessee admittedly were made

available by the AO on repeated requests fairly close to the fag end of the

assessment proceedings which finding of fact has not been assailed by the

Revenue. In these facts the need for the assessee to file petition for admission of

fresh evidence was warranted on facts. The evidence sought to be relied upon

available in the Paper Books before us, it is seen is relevant and crucial for

deciding the issues. We also find that the evidence has been made available to

the AO and the Ld.CIT(A) has zealously pursued the AO to make a Remand

Report available. From the record it is seen that the petition for fresh evidence

dated 12.02.2010 was sent to the assessing officer on 17.02.2010 and a remand

report after repeated reminders was finally filed only on 24.02.2011 i.e. after

almost a year. It is also seen that since the last opportunity provided to the AO

to file the same upto 15.02.2011 was not complied with the CIT(A) holding that

the powers held by him were co-terminus with that of the AO carried out the

verification of additional evidences himself and proceeded to examine the

witnesses and record their statement on oath etc. on 25.02.2011 and

considering the Remand Report which was also received by him by then the

impugned order was passed. In the facts as available on record which remain

unassailed, we finding ourselves in agreement with the following reasoning and

conclusion arrived at by the CIT(A) dismiss the departmental ground:- 8. Addressing Ground No. 2 it was submitted by the Ld. CIT DR that the

facts are found addressed in the un-numbered pages 2 and 3 of the assessment

order. The assessee it was submitted was required to explain the deposits

totaling to Rs.2,29,500/-in S.B. Account No. 16456 maintained with the

Canara Bank and a few more deposits totaling Rs.21,000/- in S.B. Account

No.12485 also maintained with the Canara Bank. The assessee failed to explain

the same leading to the addition of Rs. 2,50,500/-. 8.1. Apart from these deposition it was submitted the assessee had deposited

(20,000/- + Rs.10,000/- + Rs.10,000/- + Rs.20,000/-) on four different dates in

the S.B. Account of 12485, totaling to Rs.60,000/-. Herein also no satisfactory

explanation could be offered apart from claiming that three of the deposits were

 Page 5
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

loans from his mother-in-law, Smt.Kaushlaya Sehgal. Despite an opportunity,

confirmations from these creditors was not filed leading to the addition of

Rs.60,000/-. 8.2. Carrying us through the observations made by the AO it was her

submission that the additions have been deleted by the CIT(A) without caring to

address full facts properly. Accordingly relying upon the assessment order, it

was her submission that the additions may be sustained or the matter be

remanded back to the AO for fresh consideration 9. The Ld. AR opposing the prayer made took strong objection to the

departmental arguments and the request. Inviting attention to the detailed

explanation offered by the assessee on facts and specifically the Assessing

Officer's opinion expressed in the Remand Report extracted in the order it was

his submission that the AO having given up the issue in the Remand Report

itself as far as the addition of Rs.60,000/- was concerned the specific addition

could not have been challenged thereafter and in these facts there could have

been no occasion for the CIT DR to rely upon the assessment order and make

the prayer for confirming the addition or restoring the matter.

9.1. Similarly addressing the addition of Rs.21,000/- deleted it was submitted

the raising of the ground by the AO was wrong as this issue also had been

given up by the AO himself as per para 6.3 of the impugned order. Accordingly

heavy reliance was placed thereon. 9.2. Addressing the remaining amount of Rs.2,29,500/- it was submitted that

all along the assessee has been claiming that these deposits represented

undisclosed income of M/s Lumen Alchemy Exim P. Ltd. which had introduced,

the amount back in its business from routing through the bank account of the

assessee and most important it has been admitted as undisclosed income of

 Page 6
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

that company. This claim was supported by an assessment order passed u/s

143(3) for 2006-07 AY in the case of that assessee. The AO in the facts of the

present case in un-numbered page 2 also takes note of the following fact:- 10. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. On a consideration of the same, we find that as far as the amount of

Rs.2,50,000/- is concerned, it is seen that it consists of Rs.2,29,500 and

Rs.21,000/-. We find that the Ld. AR is correct in his submissions that the

relief of Rs.21,000/- has been given by the Assessing Officer himself in the

Remand Report as per Para 6.3 of the impugned order. Accordingly we find the

AO could not be said to be aggrieved thereafter. The raising of the ground to

that extent is found to be not justified. In regard to the remaining addition of

Rs.2,29,500/-, we find in the face of the addition of the very same amount as

undisclosed income of M/s Lumen Alchemy Exim P. Ltd. the same cannot again

be added as income of the assessee. Accordingly finding ourselves in agreement

with the conclusions arrived at by the CIT(A) in para 6.5(i) and 6.5(ii) the

following finding is upheld:- ii. For depositing sums totaling to Rs. 2,29,500/- in cash into SB A/c # 6456 with
 Canara Bank
 I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by the
 appellant. There is no dispute that the said sums had been deposited in
 cash by the appellant in his bank account during the relevant previous
 year and that he was a director in that company. There is also no
 dispute that the said sums were further given to M/s Lumen Alchemy
 Exim (P) Ltd. from the bank account of the appellant. The assessment
 order dated 15-12-08 u/s 143(3) of the ITO, Ward 4(4), New Delhi
 for the AY 2006-07 in the case of M/s Lumen Alchemy Exim (P)
 Ltd. clearly reveals that the addition of the impugned sum of Rs.
 2,29,500/- was made in the hands of that company u/s 68 of the
 Act as its income. Hence, it is my considered view that the said
 amounts of cash totaling to Rs. 2,29,500/- had been earned from
 undisclosed sources by that company, as has already been assessed
 and also admitted by that company, but routed back into its books
 through the bank account of the appellant. Accordingly, the sum of Rs.
 2,29,500/- cannot be taxed again in the hands of the appellant his
 income now and the addition so made is, therefore, deleted. (emphasis provided)

10.1. The remaining amount of the Rs.60,000/-, it is seen also has been given

up by the Assessing Officer himself in his Remand Report. In the circumstances

we are surprised how the AO can be said to be aggrieved. For ready reference

para 7.3 of the impugned order is reproduced hereunder:- The details of consultancy income totaling to Rs. 64,700/- have already
 been verified and examined in ground no. 1 herein above and it is seen

 Page 8
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 that the impugned credit of Rs. 20,000/- forms part of the total receipt
 declared by the appellant and also accepted as such in the assessment
 of income by the AO. Even the AO in his remand report has accepted the
 explanation of the appellant in this regard after verification. Accordingly,
 the said deposit of Rs. 20,000/- stands fully explained and the addition
 so made u/s 68 of the Act is deleted. ii. For Gifts received from Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal - Rs. 40,000/
 I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by
 the appellant. The appellant was asked to produce Mr. K.K. Sehgal,
 husband of Late Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal, for examination and verification
 of facts. Mr. K.K. Sehgal appeared and his statement was recorded
 under oath on 25-2-11. He is the father-in-law of the appellant, who
 retired as the Section Officer from AFHO, Govt, of India on 31/1/06 and
 his now deceased wife, Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal, retired from MTNL as Sr.
 TOA(G) on 30/11/05. Mr. K.K. Sehgal admitted that the impugned gifts
 and advances were given in cash and through bank accounts to the
 appellant by him as well as his deceased wife during the check period
 covered in the search proceedings. He submitted the year-wise summary
 statements of the said transactions with the appellant for himself and
 his wife and also produced the original copies of the relevant bank
 passbooks for verification from where the said payments had been made
 by them. The above gifts totaling to Rs. 40,000/- were found to have
 been given to the appellant from her bank account on three occasions. In
 fact, even the bank passbooks of Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal clearly revealed
 that the impugned cheques were cleared to the credit of the appellant's
 SB a/c # 12485. Even the AO in his remand report has accepted the
 explanation of the appellant in this regard after verification. Accordingly,
 the said deposits totaling to Rs. 40,000/- stands fully explained and the
 addition so made u/s 68 of the Act is deleted. (emphasis provided) 11. Addressing the next ground assailing the addition of Rs.85 lacs deleted by

the CIT(A) the Ld. CIT DR carrying us through the relevant finding of AO at un-

numbered page 4 and 5 of the assessment order submitted that during the

search at the residence of the assessee, certain documents pages 50 to 59 of

Annexure LP - 3 and page 22 of Annexure LP-5 showed that the assessee had

entered into some buy back agreements for sale of lands with Sh. Sanjeev Sethi

of M/s Sanraj Health Services Private Limited. And SH. Ajay Joshi. The

assessee had also shown outstanding liability of Rs.3.50 crores in the name of

M/s Sanraj Health Services. The assessee was required to file a confirmation

copy which was filed. The said copy which also mentioned that Rs.3.50 crores

was advanced for purchase of land at Dehradun on behalf of M/s Sanraj Health

 Page 9
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

Services. However, seized document No. 57 of Annexure LP-3 which was a

payment receipt dated 10.10.2005 signed by the assessee acknowledged the

receipt of Rs.1.85 crore till 10/10/2005 from Sh. Sanjeev Sethi on behalf of M/s

Sanraj Health Services Private Limited where part of it i.e Rs.1 crore was

received by cheque No. 048363 dated 10.10.2005 and Rs.75 lakhs was shown

to have been received in cash from Mr. Sanjeev Sethi over and above Rs.10 lacs

received alongwith Sh. Vijendra Singh and Sh. Arvind Kaushik. Considering the

explanation offered by the assessee as unsatisfactorily addition of Rs.85 lacs

was made by the AO. 11.1. In appeal before the CIT(A), it was her submission general arguments in

regards to the nature of assessee's work and other general submissions

addressing modus operandi of such work have been accepted. The fact that

Remand Report was called was not disputed, but, it was submitted that the AO

had not accepted the evidences relied upon. It was her submission that in the

absence of any clear-cut evidences and facts on record the issue may be

remanded back to the file of the AO for a re-consideration on merit, as

admittedly the assessee has canvassed that time available to it before the AO

was not sufficient. It was also her argument that the CIT(A) has merely

accepted the assessee's submission and has not considered the facts in the

proper perspective. 12. The Ld. AR in reply inviting attention to the detailed submissions

advanced before the CIT(A) which are found to be reproduced in the order

submitted that the submissions recorded at pages 19 to 27 reproduced in para

8.2 of the impugned order cannot be said to be general arguments. The

submissions advanced on behalf of the assessee it was submitted must be read

as a whole and taken into consideration. A reading of the same it was

 Page 10
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

submitted would address the entire facts and circumstances of the case. It was

submitted the assessee has explained each document found and seized. The

detailed submission on facts not only addressed the issue in the present appeal

it was submitted but would also address the facts for the entire period. The

fresh evidences amplifying the seized documents and knitting the seized

documents with each other alongwith copies of bank accounts for all the

respective parties would show that the AO has no case. Referring to the

Remand Report which has been reproduced in para 8.3 of the impugned order,

it was submitted that the assessing officer instead of addressing the facts and

evidences on record placed before him for consideration instead again proceeded

on assumptions and prejudices which also have been addressed in the rejoinder

of the assessee also reproduced in para 8.4 of the impugned order. Heavy

reliance was placed thereon. Considering the entirety of the facts and the

circumstances, it was submitted the CIT(A) proceeded to consider the issues

from the various angles right from the stage of evidences pertaining to the year

under consideration the specific relevant documents have been addressed in

detail. The fact that the assessee has acted for various parties at different

points of time as facilitator for consolidating land holdings where the parties at

times did not want to come directly in front so as to keep the procuring price of

the land low have all been addressed right from the stage of the M/s Sanraj

Health Services and subsequently various other builders who entered into the

picture from time to time. The assessee's role it was submitted remained

constant i.e. of a facilitator. The position stands accepting by the AO himself as

would be evident from un-numbered page 5 of the assessment order:- The CIT(A) has also independently examined the evidences and also the

deponents statements on oath have been recorded. These facts it was

submitted were evident from Para 4 of the CIT(A) and the said Ground of the

Revenue has already been addressed. It was further stated that all these

evidences are available in the Paper Bok filed for each of the years and copy of

the Remand Report was also filed in the Court. Accordingly it was his

submission that the issues have been examined by the CIT(A) at his own level as

the assessing officer has been reluctant to forward a remand report despite

repeated requests. The remand report has been obtained it has been

considered. In the circumstances the arguments of the Ld. CIT DR do not

address any reason for making the request as merely reiterating the

observations of the assessing officer as the facts were considered by him at the

 Page 12
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

assessment stage, no way can be said to be a justification for the prayer of

Remand. 13. We have heard the rivals omissions and perused the material available on

record. Before addressing the arguments of the respective parties, we deem it

appropriate to extract the relevant finding from the assessment order on which

heavy reliance had been placed by the Ld. CIT DR:- In response, it was stated by the assessee that the said company is not
 cooperating any further with the assessee and that there was no written
 agreement with the said company for receiving the said advance by the
 assessee. It was further stated that assessee had received advance of
 Rs. 3.50 Crores for procurement of land on behalf of said company. Further, during the course of search operation, certain documents
 were found and seized from the residence of the assessee. As per
 documents seized and mentioned at Page 50 to 59 of Annexure LP-3 and
 Page 22 of Annexure LP-5, it was noticed that assessee has made some
 agreements for sale of lands to Sh. Sanjeev Sethi C/o M/s Sanraj Health
 Services Pvt. Ltd. and has also entered into buy back agreements with
 Sh. Sanjeev Sethi (for M/s Sanraj Health Services (P) Ltd.) and Sh. Ajay
 Joshi. From seized documents No. 57 of Annexure LP-3, which is a
 payment receipt dated 10-10-05 signed by Sh. Mukesh Joshi, Assessee,
 it is noticed that assessee has acknowledged to have received total
 payment of Rs.1.85 Crores till 10-10-05 from Sh, Sanjeev Sethi on behalf
 of M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. including payment of Rs.1 Crore
 vide cheque no. 048363 dated 10-10-05. From another seized documents
 No. 59 of Annexure LP-3, which is another payment receipt dated 10-10-
 05 signed and acknowledged by the assessee to the effect that Rs. 75
 Lacs has been received by him on 10-10-05 in cash from Sh. Sanjeev
 Sethi on behalf of M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. Also, from the
 seized document No. 55 of Annexure LP-3, it is noticed that the assessee
 alongwith two other persons namely Sh. Vijender Singh and Sh. Arvind
 Kaushik have received Rs. 10 Lacs in cash from Sh. Sanjeev Sethi. From
 the above seized documents including payment receipts, it is noticed that
 these payments (cheques as well as cash) have been received by the
 assessee from Sh. Sanjeev Sethi on behalf of M/s Sanjraj Health

 Page 13
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 Services Pvt. Ltd. with reference to agreement to sell signed on 27-07-05
 (out of which part payment was received by the assessee 05-10-05)
 towards the sale proceed for the sale of land measuring 350 Bigha to Sh.
 Sanjeev Sethi. From the perusal of all these seized documents, it is clear
 that till October, 2005, total amount of Rs. 1.85 Crores (as mentioned in
 payment receipt dated 10-10-05 on Page-57 of Annexure LP-3) was
 received by the assessee for sale of land to Sh. Sanjeev Sethi. However,
 in the confirmed copy of account filed by M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt.
 Ltd. the amount paid by the said company to Sh. Mukesh Joshi till
 October 2005 has been shown at Rs. 1 Crore only (which has been paid
 through cheque). It is also clearly mentioned on Page 57 of the seized
 document mentioned above that actual payment received by the
 assessee upto 10-10-05 was Rs. 1.85 Crore which is supported from
 seized document No. 59 and 55 of Annexure LP-3 in which the assessee
 has acknowledged that for the said land deal, he has received Rs. 75
 Lacs and Rs. 10 Lacs respectively totaling Rs. 85 Lacs in cash. All these facts were brought to the notice of the assessee and he
 was asked to explain the above transactions including cash received by
 him for Rs. 85 Lacs which has not been declared by the assessee. In
 response, it was stated by the assessee that he had received advance
 for purchase of land on behalf of M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. by
 cheque and by cash. It was further submitted that the deals did not
 materialize and so the cash received was returned subsequently and the
 cheque amount is yet to be returned by him. Thus, from all the above discussion, it is clear that assessee has
 taken total amount of Rs. 1.85 Crore upto 10-10-05 from Sh. Sanjeev
 Sethi on behalf of M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. for sale of land
 out of which only Rs. 1 Crore has been shown in the books of accounts
 upto 10-10-05, as reflected from statement of affair by the assessee, and
 as admitted by the assessee himself that the balance amount of Rs. 85
 Lacs was taken by him in cash. The assessee could not furnish any
 evidence in support of his contention that the cash portion was returned
 by him to the said company which means that the cash received of Rs.
 85 Lacs in terms of above land deal was retained by him and the same
 was not declared by him in his books of accounts, statement of affair
 and return of income. Since, the above cash received of Rs. 85 Lacs is in
 the nature of income of the assessee, which has not been declared at all
 by him, and accordingly, this sum of Rs. 85 Lacs is hereby added to the
 total income of the assessee. During the course of search operation and post search
 investigation, it was admitted by the assessee that he is mainly
 facilitator/arranger helping in .consolidation purchase/sale of lands at
 various places working for others and earning income therefrom, for
 which a surrender of Rs.75 Lacs was made by him for these activities for
 the A.Y.08-09." 13.1. Since the Revenue has made a prayer for Remand on the ground that the

submissions advanced on behalf of the assessee were general submissions and

not submission addressing the specific seized documents found during the

 Page 14
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

search, it is deemed appropriate to reproduce the submissions taken on record

by the CIT(A). These are reproduced hereunder for ready-reference:- In this regard it is important to first look into the history of the deal made
 with M/s Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. of Delhi (Sanraj) vis-a-vis the
 appellant for proper appreciation of the facts and the transactions
 undertaken during the relevant previous year. The same is given as
 under: Likewise, Sanraj did not disclose its identity even to the said two
property dealers and made the appellant obtain GPA from the said
persons in his own favour to act on their behalf to facilitate back-to-back
registration of the said pieces of land directly in favour of Sanraj
ultimately. In this manner, the appellant's consortium started entering into
agreements to sell with different land owners in order to consolidated
one large chunk of land of about 350 bighas for Sanraj.

Finally when most of the agreements to sell had been executed with the
land owners by the said consortium, their understanding was formalized
and reduced to writing with Sanraj in October, 2005. Sanraj gave a sum
of Rs. 3.50 crores through cheques and also total sum of Rs. 1.85 crores
in cash to the appellant, which were to be applied by the appellant for
the purpose of the land deals and / or to be disbursed for and on behalf
of Sanraj. The terms and conditions regarding remuneration due to the
appellant from the deal were also spelt out in the land-wise buy-back
agreements dated 6/10/05, as per which the appellant's interest (or
factually the interest of the said consortium) in the deal was outlined as
limited to the earning of commission depending upon the increase in the
land value over a stipulated period of time while the ownership of the
lands in question would be vested in Sanraj. However, due to some delays on part of Sanraj, most of the land deals
fell through and the disputes are still pending unresolved in many such
cases. While the advance of Rs. 3.50 crores still remains with the
appellant to be returned to Sanraj after settlement of those disputes, the
cash component of Rs. 1.85 crores was fully utilized for buying lands or
disbursed for and on behalf of Sanraj during the relevant previous year
itself by the appellant. The relevant documents seized from the appellant during the course of
search are listed as under and photocopies of the same are also enclosed
for your ready perusal: On the basis of some payment receipts dated 05/10/05 and 10/10/05,
seized as pages 55, 57 & 59 of Annexure LP-3, the assessing
authority noticed that a sum of Rs. 85 lacs had been received in cash
from Sanraj by the appellant besides Rs. 1 crore by cheque till
10/10/05. It has also been mentioned in the assessment order that two
cheques of Rs. 1.50 crore and Rs. 1 crore were further given by Sanraj on
16/11/05 and 15/12/05 respectively to the appellant. Thus, as per the
assessing authority whereas a total sum of Rs. 3.50 crores by cheques
and an additional sum of Rs. 85 lacs in cash had actually been received
by the appellant from 05/10/05 till 15/12/05 from Sanraj, that the
appellant had just declared Rs. crores as due to Sanraj in his personal
statement of affairs as at 31/3/06 furnished during the course of the
assessment proceedings; and also that the confirmation furnished by
Sanraj acknowledged the cheque-wise payments aggregating to Rs. 3.50
crores only. It has been further averred by the assessing authority that the appellant
acknowledged the receipt of payments by cheque and also in cash from
Sanraj for purchase of land, but stated that the cash was returned back
to that company since the deals did not materialize. As per the assessing
authority since no evidence for returning cash to Sanraj was produced by

 Page 17
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

the appellant, it was presumed that the cash of Rs. 85 lacs had been
retained by the appellant and also since the appellant did not show it as
his liability in his personal statement of affairs as at 31/3/06, the same
was admittedly his income. Thus, the addition of Rs. 85 lacs was made
for the same. In this regard it is submitted that the assertion of the assessing authority
in respect of receipt of Rs. 85 lacs in cash upto 10/10/05 from Sanraj is
just partially correct. Factually, a sum of Rs. 1.85 crore had been
received by the appellant from Sanraj in cash upto 06/11/05 as Imprest
for purchase of land or to make other disbursement for and on its behalf.

Whereas Rs. 10 lacs and Rs. 75 lacs had been received on 05/10/05
and 10/10/05 as per the seized documents as stated in the assessment
order, further cash of Rs. 1 crore was also received from Sanraj in two
equal installments of Rs. 50 lacs each between 10/10/05 and
06/11/05, which is abundantly clear from the paper seized as page 23
of Annexure LP-5 from the appellant. On the top left hand side of this
paper it is clearly written that the following sums aggregating to Rs. 2.75
crores had been received: In fact, the said paper has been discussed at length in the assessment
order for the AY 2008-09 of the appellant by the assessing authority, on
the basis of which he made an addition of Rs. 1.75 crore for the cash
component out of the total receipt of Rs. 2.75 crore, though holding it as
unexplained investment, but while choosing to ignore or rather choosing
not to address the following material facts to suit his own convenience
for making the said addition in the AY 2008-09: In fact, the said sums had been received from Sanraj by the
 appellant and also disbursed to the extent of Rs. 1.35 crores in
 cash for and on its behalf. This is squarely verifiable from the fact
 that it contained an account of some party around 06/11/05 and
 the only party that the appellant was dealing with around that
 time was Sanraj. Moreover, the said sum of "Rs. 1 Cr. Bank" was
 received from Sanraj by cheque on 10/10/05 and deposited in the
 SB A/c # 16456 of the appellant with Canara Bank, which was
 also so stated on the seized page no. 57 of Annexure LP-3 and
 also so admitted by the assessing authority in the assessment
 order of the AY 2006-07. Thus, undisputedly the said account
 contained the receipt of Rs. 1 crore by cheque and that of Rs. 1.75
 crore in cash from Sanraj only during the period from 10/10/05 to
 06/11/05 and also contained the disbursements made in cash
 out of the same during that period. However, the sum of Rs. 10 lacs paid in cash by Sanraj on
 05/10/05 was not mentioned therein since it had been given
 directly to the land owners by Sanraj though through the
 appellant as its intermediary. Undisputedly, this fact stands
 acknowledged by the income-tax department since an addition of
 Rs. 85 lacs has been made in the AY 2006-07 for cash receipts of
 Rs. 10 lacs on 05/10/05 and Rs. 75 lacs on 10/10/05 from
 Sanraj by the appellant. Thus, in all Rs. 3.50 crores had been
 received by cheques and an additional sum of Rs. 1.85 crore had
 been received in cash from Sanraj by the appellant between
 05/10/05 and 06/11/05 for the purpose of acquiring lands and
 making disbursements on its behalf. Against the said sum of Rs. 1.85 crore received from Sanraj as
 Imprest, the following payments / disbursements were made by
 the appellant for and on behalf of Sanraj: Date Amount(Rs.) Explanation
05/10/05 10 lacs Paid to the land owners as per receipt dated
05/10/05
 (Page 55 of Annexure LP-3)
06/11/05 135 lacs Disbursed to various persons for and on
 behalf of Sanraj (Page; 23 of Annexure LP-5)

03/01/06 12.5 lacs Advance for land given to Ishwar (land
 owner) by cheque issued from SB A/c #
 16456 Canara Bank by the appellant on
 behalf of Sanraj (Clearly stated so in the
 statement of affairs as on 31/3/06
 referred to by the assessing authority)
12/01/06 12.5 lacs Advance for land given to Deepak (land
 owner) by cheque issued from SB A/c #

 Page 19
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 16456 Canara Bank by the appellant on
 behalf of Sanraj (Clearly stated so in the
 statement of affairs as on 31/3/06 referred
 to by the assessing authority)
18/01/06 15 lacs Advance for land given to Ratan (land owner)
 by cheque issued from SB A/c # 16456
 Canara Bank by the appellant or behalf of
 Sanraj (Clearly stated so in the statement of
 affairs as on 31/3/06 referred to by the
 assessing authority)
185 lacs Total Payment made

 A date-wise chart of inflow and outflow of Land Imprest moneys
 received by the appellant both in cash and by cheques during the
 relevant previous year from Sanraj is enclosed for your kind
 perusal and appreciation of the facts stated above. It is
 categorically stated that the said chart has been prepared on the basis of
 seized material and corroborative evidences only.

 The seized paper (page no. 23 of LP-5) showing payments of Rs. 1.35
 crores also includes payments of Rs. 82 lacs made to Mr. Sachin
 Upadhaya by the appellant. In this regard it is explained that the
 appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya were both working , in their
 individual capacities in arranging land for Sanraj and making payments
 to the different land owners for and on behalf of Sanraj. It must be
 appreciated that in none of the agreements of the appellant with Sanraj,
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya was a party, but he was only a witness to those
 agreements. Thus, he was acting in his own individual capacity in
 dealing with Sanraj and not as an associate of the appellant. Therefore,
 they were individually accountable to Sanraj for utilization of the land
 imprest money received by them, and since the appellant had remitted
 the sum of Rs. 82 lacs further to Mr. Sachin Upadhaya at the behest of
 Sanraj out of its Imprest, Mr. Sachin Upadhaya alone was accountable to
 satisfy Sanraj as to its utilization and not the appellant; and as far as
 the appellant is concerned, he had disbursed the said sum for and on
 behalf of Sanraj. Similarly all other payments listed in the said seized
 document had also been disbursed by the appellant to Sanraj's local
 staff and its other associates for and on behalf of Sanraj till 06/11/05.
 Rs. 25 lacs and Rs. 17 lacs were given to Mr. Govind and Mr. Sharad
 respectively, who were both associates of Sanraj in Dehradun and Rs.
 11.585 lacs to Sanraj's staff temporarily posted in Dehradun for
 miscellaneous items as listed in the impugned seized document.

 Thus, the entire sum of Rs. 1.85 crore received in cash from Sanraj was
 paid / disbursed by the appellant before 31/3/06 while the cheques
 totaling to Rs. 3.50 crores remained unspent till then, the appellant
 declared the net liability of Rs.crores due to Sanraj in his personal
 statement of affairs as on that date. It must be appreciated that it is not
 material whether the said payments also included payments of Rs. 40
 lacs made by cheques by the appellant. The crux of the matter is that the
 entire receipt of Rs. 1.85 crore from Sanraj had been used for and on
 behalf of that party by the appellant. Therefore, the basic charge of the
 assessing authority that the returning / utilization of Rs. 85 lacs had not
 been shown with evidence by the appellant and hence the same must
 have been retained by him as income, has no legs to stand. Page 20
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

In fact, it was within the clear knowledge of the assessing authority that
the paper seized as page no. 23 at Annexure LP-5 contained the
account of this very receipt from Sanraj and also its outflow for it.
Therefore, the same was deliberately treated as undated paper by him
and without referring to the utilization part of it, while suppressing the
date mentioned therein and also while considering the sum of Rs. 1 crore
in Bank as declared even without confronting the appellant as to its
source, he proceeded to make an addition of Rs. 1.75 crore for
unexplained cash investment in the AY 2008-09 and making a
simultaneous addition of Rs. 85 lacs as unexplained cash receipt in the
AY 2006-07 for a portion of it. Moreover, the assessing authority has not disputed that the entire money
both by cheque and in cash had been paid by Sanraj to the appellant. In
fact, the confirmation of Sanraj also goes on to prove of the existence of
the source being Sanraj even in respect of the cash transactions involved,
and if once the source is proved the same cannot be presumed as income
of the appellant especially when the said amount had been fully utilized
for and on behalf of that party only. The assertion of the assessing authority is that since the appellant did
not prove the returning of Rs. 85 lacs received in cash from Sanraj, the
same must have been retained by him and accordingly it was assessed
as his income. But in that case, even the sum of Rs. 3.50 crores received
by cheques had neither been returned nor utilized by the appellant for
and on behalf of Sanraj. Therefore, a pertinent question arises as to why
was the same not assessed as the appellant's undisclosed income also.
The answer of the assessing authority could be that Sanraj had
confirmed having given Rs. 3.50 crores by cheques to the appellant but it
did not confirm any payment in cash to him, therefore, the addition for
cash alone had been made. But in that case, the situation would become
even more anomalous since the assessing authority has himself relied
upon the receipts dated' A 05/10/05 and 10/10/05 for payment of Rs.
85 lacs made in cash by Sanraj to the appellant, thus, actually admitting
that Sanraj was the source of cash payments made to the appellant.
Moreover, it is not understood why the assessing authority did not issue
summons to Sanraj to confront the payment made in cash by. it which
were not disclosed in the confirmation issued by it while the impugned
seized receipts indicated otherwise; or if in case the summons were
issued, then what was the outcome of the same is not known since the
assessment order is completely silent in this regard.

It must be appreciated that the impugned confirmation of Sanraj just
proves the source of the moneys received by the appellant but it does not
reflect its utilization, which is the moot point under debate here and
which must be addressed to arrive at the proper conclusion as to the
assessability of Rs. 1.85 crores received in cash from Sanraj by the
appellant. As explained above, the entire sum of Rs. 1.85 crores had
definitely been used up for and on behalf of Sanraj only through the
appellant so nothing remained to be returned to Sanraj out of the same.
Thus, no addition in respect of the said Rs. 1.85 crores could be made in
any manner in any assessment year since its source as well as its
utilization stand fully explained. Page 21
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 Thus, the presumption of the assessing authority that the cash receipts
 had been retained by the appellant gets squarely rebutted. Accordingly,
 the addition of Rs. 85 lacs for cash receipt should be deleted." (emphasis provided by the Bench)

13.1. On consideration of the above, we find that the arguments advanced on

behalf of the Revenue that general submissions were advanced and not fact

specific submission is an incorrect argument borne out from the record. We

further find that these submissions were made available to the Assessing Officer

as is evident from para 4 of the impugned order extracted earlier in this order

and find that more than a year's time was made available to the AO in the

remand proceedings. The remand report has been reproduced in para 8.3 by

the CIT(A). For ready reference it is reproduced hereunder:- (emphasis supplied)

13.2. The record also shows that the following re-joinder was filed on behalf of

the assessee and is extracted hereunder for the sake of completeness :- 13.3. Considering these facts and submissions the CIT(A it is seen has come to

a detailed conclusion. On consideration thereof we find that the prayer of the

 Page 23
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

Ld.CIT DR has no legs to stand as no fact has been rebutted by the Revenue, no

conclusion has been shown to be an incorrect conclusion on the facts as they

stand. We find that the nature of the evidences placed by the assessee on

record in the Paper Book today before us consisting of documents before the AO

and the CIT(A) also has not been shown to either be incorrect or insufficient.

We find that no effort to rebut any evidence has been made by the Revenue. As

would be evident from para 4 of the impugned order reproduced in the earlier

part of this order. Thus where we find that more than sufficient opportunity was

available to the AO to consider the evidences which have been further

considered in the peculiar facts of the present case by the CIT(A) himself who

has also considered the Remand Report filed. Accordingly in the facts as they

stand, we find no procedural violation and considering the facts as they stand

and in the absence of any cogent argument justifying the request for remand

we reject the same. Being satisfied with the reasoning and the conclusion on

the facts as they stand we find ourselves in agreement with the finding arrived

at by the CIT(A). The same is reproduced hereunder :- Whether the paper found from the possession of the appellant and seized at page no.
23 of the Annexure LP-5 pertained to the transactions with M/s Sanraj Health
Services (P) Ltd. vis-a-vis the assessee? In order to prove his point that the said paper contains his transactions
undertaken with Sanraj, the appellant has stated that the LHS contains
receipts of moneys in cash and by cheques from Sanraj and the RHS
contains payments made for and on behalf of Sanraj. Since the receipts
of 'Rs. 75 lacs Cash' and of 'Rs. 1 Cr. Bank' recorded on LHS match with
the receipts of the said sums on 10-10-05 from M/s Sanraj Heath
Services (P) Ltd. as per the seized receipts dated 10-10-05 at page nos.
59 and 57 of the Annexure LP- 3 respectively and also admitted as such
by the AO in the assessment order for the AY 2006-07; the
preponderance of probabilities weighs strongly in favour of the appellant
that all other transactions recorded on the impugned paper also must
pertain to Sanraj, only unless proved otherwise. It is not permitted to

 Page 25
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

ignore a part of the transactions recorded on a paper which has to be
considered in totality. In respect of the payments recorded on the RHS of the said paper, it has
been explained by the appellant that all these payments were made for
and on behalf of Sanraj to its staff and associates stationed at Dehradun
for their various needs. With regard to the payments of Rs. 82 lacs made
to Mr. Sachin Upadhaya, as recorded therein, it was explained by the
appellant that although the said person was also working in capacity of
an associate of the appellant in other such land deals, but in the case of
land deals with Sanraj, both of them were working independently and in
their own individual capacities in arranging plots of land for Sanraj and
making payments to the different land owners for and on behalf of
Sanraj. My attention was particularly drawn to the seized GPAs at page
nos. 50 to 52 of Annexure LP-3, where Mr. Sachin Upadhaya was not a
party, but he was just a witness to those documents. Thus, he was
acting in his own individual capacity in dealing with Sanraj and not as
an associate of the appellant. Therefore, they were individually
accountable to Sanraj for utilization of the land imprest money received
by them, and since the appellant had handed over a sum of Rs. 82 lacs
further to Mr. Sachin Upadhaya at the behest of Sanraj out of its Imprest
with the appellant, Mr. Sachin Upadhaya alone was accountable to
satisfy Sanraj as to its utilization and not the appellant; and as far as
the appellant is concerned, he had disbursed the said sum for and on
behalf of Sanraj. It was further explained by the appellant that similarly all other
payments noted in the said seized document had also been disbursed by
the appellant to Sanraj's local staff and its other associates for and on
behalf of Sanraj till 06-11-05. Rs. 25 lacs and Rs. 17 lacs were given to
Mr. Govind and Mr. Sharad respectively, who were both associates of
Sanraj in Dehradun and Rs. 11.585 lacs to Sanraj's staff temporarily
posted in Dehradun for miscellaneous items as listed in the impugned
seized document. I find substance in the explanations and arguments of the appellant and
also notice that the AO chose to ignore the contents written on RHS of the
impugned seized document all together. Thus, there remains no doubt in
my mind that all transactions noted down on the said paper pertained to
Sanraj only as nothing contrary has been brought on record by the AO. In
fact, even the AO in his remand report has accepted, after carrying out
his verification of the seized material, that Rs. 1.85 crore had been
received in cash by the appellant from Sanraj and also that
disbursement to the tune of Rs. 1.35 crore was made out of it by the
appellant on behalf of Sanraj only. Whether the actual sum received in cash from Sanraj during the
AY 2006-07 was Rs. 85 lacs or Rs. 1.85 crore? It has already been held by me that all transactions recorded on the
paper seized at page no.23 of the Annexure LP-5 pertained to Sanraj.
Accordingly, even the sums of Rs.50 lacs cash noted down twice on the
receipts side (LHS) were also received from Sanraj undoubtedly.
Although this paper contains reference to Rs.1.75 crore received in cash
from Sanraj, but as mentioned by the AO in the assessment order and as
also admitted by the appellant, Rs.10 lacs had also been received in

 Page 26
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

cash from Sanraj by way direct payments made to the land owners
against agreements to sell. Thus, the total receipts in cash from Sanraj
was indeed Rs.1.85 crore and not just the sum of Rs.85 lacs. Even the
AO in his remand report has accepted, after carrying out his verification
of the seized material, that total sum of Rs.1.85 crore had been received
in cash by the appellant from Sanraj." Whether the appellant signed agreements to sell for purchase of
plots of land in his--v name for his own use and purpose or did
he act as the agent or front of Sanraj as explained by him?

From the seized record it is noticed that the receipt dated 05-10-05 for
Rs. 10 lacs seized as page no. 55 of the Annexure LP-3 clearly refers to
the agreements to sell dated 27-07-05 of the appellant entered with the
land owners and also the factum of payment of Rs. 10 lacs to the land
owners through the appellant by Mr. Sanjeev Sethi of Sanraj. This receipt
clearly states that 150 bigha of land at Village Khirshali, Dehradun was
being sold to Mr. Sanjeev Sethi at the rate of Rs. 9,89,900/- per bigha for
which a part payment of Rs. 10 lacs was made by Mr. Sanjeev Sethi and
the sale deeds for which were to be executed by 10-10-05.

Further, the buy-back agreement dated 06-10-05 seized at page no. 56 of
the Annexure LP-3 also reveals that a minimum guarantee of 25%
increase within next 6 months on the agreed purchase price of Rs.
9,89,900/- per bigha had been given to Mr. Sanjeev Sethi (1st party) by
the appellant, Mr. Mukesh Joshi (2nd party) and Mr. Ajay Joshi (3rd party)
failing which the 1st party was to pay the commission @ 2% only to the 3
rd party. It was further stipulated therein that in case the land prices

increased between 25% to 50% within next 6 months, then the 1st party
will get 25% as minimum guarantee and the appellant (2nd party) shall be
entitled to the balance increased sum, whereas both parties agreed to
give 2% commission to the 3rd party from their respective shares. Further,
it was stipulated that in case the land prices increased by more than
50% within the next 6 months, then the increase over 50% shall be
shared equally by the three parties but the 3rd party shall get his due
commission or l/3rd share so determined, whichever is higher.

Thus, parties no. 1 and 2 to this buy-back agreement, being Mr. Sanjeev
Sethi of Sanraj and Mr. Mukesh Joshi, the appellant, were the buyers of
land together and Mr. Ajay Joshi, the 3rd party, was to receive
commission from the said land deals. Therefore, it is clear that the
appellant was working alongside Mr. Sanjeev Sethi of Sanraj in
procuring the said plots of land on his behalf and not as an independent
buyer. In other words, the appellant had signed the agreements to sell in July
2005 for purchase of plots of land for and on behalf of Sanraj, though in
his own name, but acting as the agent or the front man of Sanraj.

Whether the appellant was to receive any remuneration from
Sanraj at the time of entering into agreements to sell with the
land owners? As per the said buy-back agreement of the appellant with Sanraj, the
appellant was to receive his remuneration after execution of the sale
deeds, though based on the future increase in the land prices. There is

 Page 27
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

no evidence on record indicating any remuneration payable to the
appellant by Sanraj for or at the time of entering into agreements to sell
with the land owners. Whether the appellant sold any of his own land to Sanraj for
which he could have^A received sale price from Sanraj in cash or
was he merely acting as a facilitator in the land deals for
Sanraj? In this regard it was further explained by the appellant that the plots of
land in question were agreed to be procured from the various land
owners at the rate of Rs. 9,89,900/- per bigha on behalf of Mr. Sanjeev
Sethi of Sanraj though entered into in his own name by the appellant but
the final conveyance deeds were to be made directly by Sanraj with the
land owners. Under this understanding the so-called buy-back
agreement was also got signed by Mr. Sanjeev Sethi to safeguard his
interest because he had made the total investment for purchase of the
said plots of land. Moreover, since hot even a single copy of the
agreements to sell and the sale deeds pertaining to the said plots of land
was found from the possession of the appellant during the search also
bears testimony to the fact that all those documents had been kept by
Mr. Sanjeev Sethi in his own custody since he was the actual buyer and
the appellant was just his agent or front for procuring the said plots of
land for Sanraj. I find force in the arguments of the appellant. As per the said buy-back
agreement, the appellant was to receive his remuneration eventually,
though based on the future increase in the land prices. This cannot be
understood as profit on sale of land accruing to him, but it was the
remuneration due to him for rendering land procurement services to
Sanraj. If the appellant is held to be the actually purchaser of the said
land who eventually sold it to Mr. Sanjeev Sethi, then some payments
would certainly have been made by him at the time of purchase, but
neither any such documents were found during the search nor any such
finding has been given by the AO in this regard. Thus, the said land was
indeed purchased by the appellant for and on behalf of Sanraj and the
question of its subsequent sale to Sanraj by him does not arise and,
therefore, the appellant was merely acting as a facilitator in the said
land deals for Sanraj. Whether the receipt of Rs. 85 lacs or Rs. 1.85 crore in cash from
Sanraj an advance or income of the appellant? The buy-back agreements seized in search clearly reveal that the
appellant was to receive his remuneration only after 6 months from the
registration of the said plots of land in the name of Sanraj. As per the
seized record examined by me in this regard, the said sale deeds were
due to be executed from 10-10-05 till the end of December, 2005.
Accordingly, the remuneration of the appellant fell due only after 6
months therefrom, while the said cash of Rs. 1.85 crore had clearly been
received by him much before. Thus, the receipt of Rs. 1.85 crore in cash
from Sanraj was in nature of advance for land procurement and which
even was disbursed by the appellant for and on behalf of Sanraj by the
appellant as under: Whether the appellant paid / disbursed Rs. 1.85 crore for and on
behalf of Sanraj? I have already held herein above that the evidence seized from the
possession of the appellant clearly reveals that Rs. 1.35 crore had been
disbursed by him in cash for and on behalf of Sanraj and besides this,
Rs. 40 lacs had been been advanced to some land owners for purchase
of land by cheques for and on behalf of Sanraj. The remaining Rs 10 lacs
were also paid to the plot owners in cash. Thus, the appellant had
undoubtedly paid / disbursed Rs. 1.85 crore for and on behalf of Sanraj.
Even the AO in his remand report has accepted, after carrying out his
verification of the seized material, that Rs. 1.85 crore had been
disbursed for and on behalf of Sanraj. Page 29
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 Whether the AO was justified in making the said addition for
 cash receipt since only the cheque payments had been confirmed
 by Sanraj before him? It is my considered view that merely because M/s Sanraj Health Services
 (P) Ltd. only confirmed payment of Rs. 3.50 crores by cheques to the
 appellant, it cannot be concluded that no cash payments had been made
 by the said company to the appellant for procurement of land, especially
 because the seized documents clearly revealed that payment of Rs. 1.85
 crores was also made in cash by Sanraj to the appellant. Thus, in my
 opinion the AO was not justified in making the said addition for cash
 receipt since only the cheque payments had been confirmed by Sanraj
 before him. In view of the discussion above and considering all facts, aspects and
 circumstances of the issue involved, the addition of Rs. 85 lacs made by
 the AO is hereby deleted. 13.4. Considering the above in the context of the reply of the assessee placed on

record and juxtaposed with the remand report of the AO, (also reproduced

above) which has been heavily relied upon by the Ld. CIT DR before us we find

that when these read alongwith the submissions advanced we are of the view

that by relying upon the assessment and the remand report, the revenue can at

best arouse suspicion which by itself cannot be said to be sufficient reason to

justify the demand for a remand. No doubt ITAT has the power to remand the

issue, however the said request cannot be requested for on ipse dixit of the

parties; it has to be supported on the basis of some cogent and relevant facts

which can be said to have been either not considered or considered incorrectly.

For the said purposes the necessary exercise has not been done by the Revenue.

We find from the record that the assessee has addressed the seized Annexure's

and documents relied upon by the AO and the detailed explanation on these

seized Annexure's and documents has been made available to the assessing

officer. It is seen that the assessing officer has repeatedly been reminded to

place its remand report on record and since despite reminders when it was not

been placed on record the CIT(A) has proceeded to examine the documents and

 Page 30
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

called for the witnesses and had already started the process of recording their

statements by which time the assessing officer finally also placed its remand

report on record. We have taken into consideration the contents of the remand

report relied upon by the Revenue. A perusal of the same shows that the basic

claim on facts is agreed to by him and after that on selective reasoning has

proceeded to address the evidences which are not disputed. The objection is

only on the reasoning that Registered documents can only be considered. The

role of the assessee as a facilitator as per the assessing officer himself for

consolidating purchase/sale of lands on behalf of other parties stands accepted

the documents stand addressed thus in the peculiar facts and circumstances of

the case In the absence of any infirmity pointed out in the order we find no good

reason to interfere with the finding arrived at. Accordingly ground No. 3 of the

revenue is dismissed. 14. Addressing Ground No.4, the Ld. CIT DR inviting attention to

unnumbered page 5 and 6 of the assessment order submitted that that certain

financial transactions were found in the seized laptop of the assessee which

have been mentioned as Annexure A -1. The assessee was required to explain

the same. it was submitted THAT the assessee has avoided a reply and instead

said that these laptops were used by his wife and his brother-in-law for teaching

and re-creation purposes of the children's education etc. and that they did not

reflect any financial transactions. The explanation it was submitted was found

to be incorrect as evidently specific cheque numbers and transactions in cash

totaling to Rs.40,93,200/- were recorded. Inviting attention to the submissions

advanced before the CIT(A) it was her submission that the argument of the

assesee has been accepted without any basis. The Assessing Officer it was

submitted has successfully rejected this generalistic explanation offered and

 Page 31
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

held that the argument is without any evidence, namely that the assessee and

Sh. Sachin Upadhyay were jointly acting as associates for procuring land in

Dehradun for M/s Prateek Resorts. In support of the assessee's claim it was

submitted no joint venture agreement was ever made available. The evidence in

the form of Registered Agreements or Sale Deed etc. it was submitted was found

to be missing. Accordingly it was her submission that the issue should be

restored to the file of the assessing officer for a verification on facts since

admittedly in the case of ATS group of companies including that of M/s Prateek

Resorts and Builders a special audit had been ordered. 15. The Ld. AR on the other hand strongly opposed the request for a remand.

It was his submission that whatever the department could find against the

assessee has been found in the search. The evidence in support of its case has

been confronted to the AO. More than adequate time has been made available

to him to consider the same and at the cost of reiteration it was submitted no

argument has been advanced to justify the request. The fact that the evidences

have been independently verified by the CIT(A) himself and speaking finding has

been given has been left unaddressed. Thus in the absence of any infirmity in

the order the request for Remand was strongly opposed. Addressing the fact

that the transactions are recorded in the laptop, it was submitted does not

make the assessee a liar as the explanation offered at the stage of assessment

that the laptops were used by the family for education and recreational

purposes was also correct and the assessee stands by it. The said claim was

correct and merely because some transactions were also recorded at a point of

time is a fact. The fact that the assessee can explain what was recorded therein

and has successfully demonstrated that these were details of the transactions

recorded for some calculation purposes and explained that the payment

 Page 32
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

recorded as coded "M" in the seized document match with the bank entries for

Mr Mukesh Joshi and the one recorded for "S" tallied with the bank accounts

of Mr Sachin Upadhyay. It was his submission that the assessee has never

claimed that Mr Sachin Upadhyay and he were acting in a joint venture for

procuring land for and on behalf of Mrs Prateek Resorts and Builders a group

company of ATS. What has been claimed, it was submitted is that both of them

were working in their individual capacity for this purpose. They were working

with a common goal. They were accountable to the company for the money given

to them for procurement of land through them which were recorded in the

impugned sheet found from the seized laptop. It was submitted that this

explanation of the assessee and the rejoinder to the Remand Report of the

assessing officer when read along with the detailed submissions advanced

before the CIT(A) to explain the nature of assessee's business would show and

explain how the assessee has been functioning over the years for consolidation

of land and facilitating purchases in the area of Dehradun for and on behalf of

M/s Sanraj Health Services; for and on behalf of the ATS group; RPS Group of

Faridabad; and Prateek Resorts etc. at a different points of time. The assessee's

explanation, it was submitted is well knitted with each and every transaction on

each and every document found. This evidence it was submitted has not been

assailed by the Revenue whatsoever. Accordingly it was his submission that the

plea made at this stage for a Remand based on no evidence and assailing no

evidence and leading no fresh evidence on fact should not be accepted. 16. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. It is seen that the following transactions relatable to the year under

consideration were found recorded in the seized laptops described as Annexure

A-1. 16.1. It is seen that following submissions on facts have been advanced before

the CIT(A: - (emphasis provided)

16.2. We find that the arguments of the CIT DR that generalistic non-factual

arguments were advanced before the CIT(A) on fats is a wrong and incorrect

submission and we find on considering the same that it cannot be accepted.

The arguments are fact specific and also address the overall claim on the issues.

We find from a reading of the following Remand Report of the AO that the claims

are disputed on the ground that Registered Deeds were not filed. The fact that

the land consolidation process set in motion by the activities of the assessee

based on the documents seized have been addressed alongwith the copies of the

bank accounts of the various parties proving the assessee's claim, we find this

 Page 37
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

finding based on the evidences on record has not been assailed. The Remand

Report extracted in para 9.3 is reproduced hereunder:- (emphasis supplied)

16.3. The assessee's rejoinder thereto in para 9.4 again at page 42 of the

impugned order is also extracted for the sake of completeness: - (emphasis supplied)

 Page 38
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

16.4. In the face of the facts remaining unrebutted on record and considering

the evidence relied upon by the assessee, which admittedly has been confronted

to the AO, and also has been independently examined by the CIT(A), we find in

these peculiar facts and circumstances the following finding arrived at in the

impugned order deserves to be upheld. As observed in order to justify a remand

the Revenue must make out a case in support of the claim. In the absence of

any argument assailing the facts or the correctness of the conclusion or leading

any argument on insufficiency of the evidences or furnishing any fresh fact on

record or canvassing that a crucial evidence, has been ignored. The request

casually made cannot be accepted. As we have observed the evidences have

been available in the Paper Book and nothing before us also has been referred

to therein by the Revenue to demolish the conclusion drawn by the CIT(A).

Being satisfied by the reasoning and conclusion arrived at the following finding

the same is upheld by us:- 17. Ground No.5 being a general ground needs no separate adjudication and

stands addressed in the findings arrived at in Ground No.1 to 4. Ground No.6

being a residuary Ground was not pressed. 18. In the result, ITA No.3150/Del/2011 is dismissed. 19. ITA No.3151/Del/2011 pertains to 2007-08 AY the relevant facts of the

case arise out of the same search. In response to the notice issued under section 153A etc. the assessee declared an income of Rs.1,38,34,940/-. It was

noticed by the AO that in the year under consideration the income declaring was

from Capital Gain on sale of shares of M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders Private

Limited and "Income from other sources" consisting of interest in FDR's in

saving accounts etc. 20. In the course of the assessment proceedings based on the deposits of Rs.

32,49,000/- on six different occasions in S.B.Account No. 12272 in Axis Bank,

the assessee was required to explain them. Finding the explanation as not

satisfactory addition of the said amount was made by the AO.

20.1. Considering the credit entry of Rs.1 Lac on 21.04.2006 with the

nomenclature of "advance taken for land TBV"" in S.B. A/c

No.DD016401521848 in ICICI Bank; and two credit entries of Rs.25,000/- and

Rs.35,000/- and also loans claimed to have been taken from Sh. Sachin

Upadhaya on different dates totaling Rs.2.20 crores and noting that after

payment of Rs.17 Lacs to him on various dates the unsecured loans

outstanding net balance of Rs.2.03 crores existed on 31.03.2007 in the name of

Sh. Sachin Upadhaya. The assessee accordingly was required to be explain

 Page 41
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

and also file confirmations from the parties. In the absence of any confirmation

from Smt. Kaushlya Sehgal and Sh. Sachin Upadhaya, the amount of

Rs.2,21,600/- was added in the hands of the assessee.

20.2. The AO also required the assessee to explain the investment of

Rs.3,32,000/- consisting of Rs.1 Lac invested on 10.10.2006, another Rs.1 Lac

on 17.02.2007; Rs.32,000/- on 25.10.2006 and Rs.1 Lac on 10.10.2006 in the

shares of GMS Builders, SMP Developers, SM Hospitality and TG Buildtech.

Rejecting the explanation offered addition of the said amount was made.

20.3. Also considering the following details of the land transactions as per

details from the seized laptops, the following evidence was confronted to the

assessee:- 2,20,12,080/- was also made. 21. These additions were challenged in appeal before the CIT(A) and as in the

earlier appeal a petition for admission of fresh evidence was moved and after

obtaining a Remand Report the evidence was admitted was considered leading

to the passing of the impugned order. Aggrieved by this, the Revenue is in

appeal on the following grounds:- on account of unexplained cash credit without appreciating the
 fact and without any basis ignoring the facts brought on records
 by the A.O as the assessee was not able to discharge its onus as
 provided in Section 68 of the I.T.Act to the satisfaction of the A.O. 4. That the CIT(A) erred in deleting the addition of Rs.3,32,000/- on
 account of purchase of shares on wrong appreciating of facts and
 law without appreciating the fact that the investment in shares
 were from outside the books of account and onus as provided in section 69 of the I.T.Act was not discharged by the assessee to
 the satisfaction of the A.O as required under the law. 5. That the CIT(A) erred in deleting the addition of Rs.2,20,12,080/- on account of cash payment for land transactions without
 appreciating the fact this addition was made on the basis of
 seized document at Annexure A-1 and the assessee was not able
 to substantiate the genuineness of these cash payments. The
 Annexure A-1 during the course of search could not have been
 ignored as it constituted an evidence as provided u/s 132 of the
 I.T.Act. 6. That the order of the CIT(A) being erroneous in law and on facts
 needs to be vacated and the order of the A.O. be restored. 7. That the appellant craves leave to add or amend any one or more
 of the ground of the appeal as stated above as and when need
 for doing so may arise. " 24.1. Inviting attention to the detailed written submissions advanced before the

CIT(A) which were confronted to the AO and are recorded at pages 6 -12 of the

impugned order it was submitted that the cash flow for the year under

consideration was filed before the AO and it consists of summary of all cash and

bank account transactions together and was placed before the AO during the

assessment proceedings. All receipts and payments for the year under

consideration it was submitted were reflected therein. It was submitted

whenever cash or cheque was received or issued, it was reflected in the flow of

 Page 44
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

the said statement explaining its source. Pointing to the same it was submitted

whenever a payment was made it was reflected in the out flow. However, since

due to the inflow or out flow of funds from the bank deposits to the cash book

and a withdrawal or deposit from the cash book to the bank did not ultimately

impact the overall availability of funds there was no impact in the summary

filed. It was elaborated that as the cash balance stood reduced by the

corresponding increase reflected in the bank balance and vice versa the overall

position remained the same. Thus the assertions of the Ld. CIT DR that no cash

flow statement was filed before the AO, it was submitted is incorrect. This

explanation it was submitted has been given before the CIT(A) confronted to the

AO and foms part of the finding and without pointing out any incorrectness in

the same merely relying upon assessment order it was submitted cannot lead to

the conclusion that a remand is necessitated. It was submitted it is the very

same cash flow statement filed before the AO which was further amplified

relying upon the seized evidence considered by the AO. The fresh evidence

confronted to the AO referring to the impugned order it was submitted was as

under:- 24.2. It was submitted that the assessee addressed the entire history of the

manner in which he has been functioning, setting out the role of facilitator for

consolidating land holdings performed by him for ATS Group prior to that RPS

 Page 45
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

Group of Faridabad, etc. Mr. Sachin Upadhaya was also similarly acting as a

facilitator in his own capacity. The understanding reached with M/s Prateek

Resorts & Builders Pvt. Ltd. etc. where the initial land acquisition for RPS

Group of 155 bighas was considered insufficient by ATS a bigger builder. It

was submitted that the assessee has explained how RPS nominated its own

persons as Directors on the Board to watch out for its interest of the said

company and subsequently removed the existing Directors from the Board so as

to maintain 100% control over the Board. The assessee and Mr. Sachin

Upadhaya it was submitted merely acted as facilitators/mediators. Despite

the facts that the shares continued to remain in their names. The explanation

that how, the ownership, management and control of RPS Group was taken over

by Prateek Group by purchasing its shares held by the assessee and Mr. Sachin

Upadhaya and it was this event which lead the assessee to come in contact with

the ATS Group. Referring to page 8 of the impugned order it was submitted that

on behalf of the assessee it was submitted that the ATS Group of Builders and

Colonizers being a large group wanted a bigger chunk of land having an area of

around 250 bighas for achieving the financial viability of their housing project in

Dehradun. The services of the assessee and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya accordingly

were requisitioned by ATS in order to facilitate land consolidation. To ensure

the compliance and control of the assessee and Mr.Sachin Upadhaya that they

should not back out from the commitment, ATS made them the Directors of

Prateek and also nominated two more Directors to its Board and removed all the

other existing Directors of RPS in the process of acquisition of that company. As

a result of this it was submitted that the assessee had stated before the CIT(A)

that effective control for all practical practices in regard to the management of

the company was with the two Directors of the ATS and the assessee and his

 Page 46
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

associates Mr. Sachin Upadhaya were dormant Directors on the Board and

merely lent their names. It was submitted that they were made to sell their

shares of Prateek Group to ATS in a phased manner spread over a period of

time, although the total price of all those shares was pre-fixed in February 2006

itself based on the valuation of land prevailing at that point of time. The

following chart placed at pages 9 of the impugned order it was submitted

reflects the position:- 24.7. The re-joinder filed on behalf of the assessee and also extracted in para

6.4 of the order was heavily relied upon. It was submitted the Department

accepts the fact that the assessee was facilitating procurement of land for the

said company. The fact that payment by cheques have been paid by ATS Group

is also an evidence which the Department agrees with. Thus the reluctance to

consider that the on money premium for the acquisition of these plots was also

provided by the ATS Group it was submitted is surprising. No where has the

department built a case that the assessee was himself indulging in land

acquisition for his own purposes. The detailed fund rotation chart, it was

submitted has established that funds were received from the ATS Group which

funds were deposited in the bank accounts of the assessee. The fact that while

 Page 51
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

finalizing the land deals the assessee has withdrawn cash out of those ATS

Bank fund or utilized the cheque amount also available with it from the deposits

of Sanraj Health Services Pvt. Ltd. also lying with him and shown as

outstanding is a fact on record. It was argued that it is immaterial, at the time

of action, which finds are being spent as the endeavour for a man on the ground

was to seal the deals as fast as possible and at as low a price as possible. The

approach of "Heads I win, tails you lose." of the Revenue in selectively

disagreeing was questioned. It was submitted the attitude was questionable as

argued it only shows the reluctance of the revenue to face the facts and does

not assail the fact in any manner. For ready-reference, the same is reproduced

hereunder:- 24.8. Accordingly it was submitted that the order deserves to be upheld and

Remand may not be directed as it is an attempt to unnecessarily harass the

assessee. 25. We have heard the rival submission and perused the material available on

record. On a consideration thereof, we find that the arguments of the Ld. CIT

DR that cash flow statement was not filed before the AO is incorrect and we also

find that no such case has been made out by the AO in the Remand Report also.

We also find that the detailed submissions on facts; the fund rotation chart;

expanded cash flow statement, the nature of services admittedly rendered by the

assessee to the different players in the field at different point of time are all facts

which are admitted facts and have not been assailed. The only objection posed

to the seized documents reflecting transactions where on money did pass is that

the AO naively notes that it is punishable thus the fact that it has been indulged

in was refused to be considerd. The plea that in performance of his role of

facilitator the cash payments for finalizing the deals also flowed from the same

source from where cheque amounts were transferred in Bank Accounts was

made and the occasion to refuse to consider the same does not arise. Even

today the Paper Book containing these evidences have not been rebutted by the

revenue or commented upon so as to canvass a contrary view thereon. In the

face of the speaking order available on record the only argument is repetition of

the observations made in the AO. We find that no effort to show any error in the

order under challenge has been made. In the absence of any argument

 Page 53
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

justifying a remand of the order, we hold that the remand cannot be directed at

the whims and fancies of a party. Finding ourselves in agreement with the

conclusive arrived at. We dismiss the departmental ground to the extent it

addresses the addition of Rs.32,49,000/- For ready-reference, the same relevant

finding which is upheld by us is reproduced hereunder:- The same was verified from his bank statements I passbooks and cash
 account in respect of each transaction recorded therein and it was found
 that there was sufficient cash balance available on all dates during the
 said three year period with the appellant whenever any cash payment
 had been made. I have held in Ground No. 3 in Appeal No. 196/09-10 in the
 case of the same assessee for the AY 2006-07 in my order of date
 that the assessee was left with a cash balance of Rs. 39.41 lacs
 out of Rs. 1.85 crores received by him from Mls Sanraj Health Services
 (P) Ltd. since he had advanced a sum of Rs. 40 lacs by cheques from his
 personal bank accounts to the land owners for and on behalf of that
 builder company. Thus, this sum of Rs. 39.41 lacs was available with
 him on 01-04-06, out of which the utilized a sum of Rs. 4.01 lacs for his
 other personal use. The said cash rotation chart clearly reveals the
 same. Further, as per the said cash rotation chart, the appellant
 received a sum of Rs. 15.51 lacs in cash from ATS on 18-07-06, thus,
 the appellant had a cash in hand of Rs. 50.91 lacs with him as on that
 date out of which he advanced Rs. 48 lacs to the land owners for and

 Page 54
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 on behalf of A TS thereafter. Thus, an excess sum of Rs.32.49 lacs had
 been spent in cash by the appellant up to 12-12-06 for and on behalf of
 ATS, which was subsequently reimbursed to him by ATS by directly
 depositing cash in the Axis Bank savings account of the appellant
 between 14-11-06 and 12-12-06 as listed by the AO in the assessment
 order. Thus, it is observed that even if the impugned cash deposits in
 bank were not reflected in the combined cash flow statement separately,
 no adverse cognizance of the same can be taken since otherwise also
 the source of the said cash deposit made stands duly explained from the
 cash rotation chart. In the cash rotation chart, the appellant showed the
 impugned cash deposits as directly made by ATS into the SB A/c
 # 12272 with Axis Bank of the appellant on the many dates
 aggregating to Rs. 32,49,000/- with the explanation that the said
 moneys were given by A TS for procurement of land at Dehradun for
 them and that the circumstantial / corroborative evidence unmistakably
 points at the source of the impugned receipt from ATS only. In this regard, the explanation of the appellant is summarized as
 under: determined price based on the valuation of existing land prevailing at
 that point of time. The said shares were subsequently transferred in
 parts by the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya as detailed herein
 below: group companies provided funds by cheques and also in cash to
 the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya in their individual
 names. Finally, in December, 2008, after the desired land had been
 procured for A TS by the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya and their
 shares in Prateek were transferred in its favour by ATS and its
 nominees, they were allowed to resign from the directorship of Prateek.

c. That the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya were just acting as
 the facilitators / mediators in the said RPS-ATS colonization deal
 and their names had been used by the said two groups as the
 shareholders / directors with a view to arrest the artificial rise in
 the land prices under purchase by them as it is the usual trade
 practice followed by large builders and also to bind them to get the
 consolidation of the additional adjoining plots of land for them. Moreover
 as per ceiling on agricultural land holding area in every state in one
 name, it is imperative for any colonisor that plots of agricultural land
 are held by him in different names within the ceiling of the holding limit
 in each name till the land use is changed as non agricultural as only
 thereafter he can hold the entire area of land in his name. The requisite
 finances were given both by cheques and in cash to them from time to
 time by the said two builder groups, but by A TS alone during the
 relevant previous year since RPS had withdrawn in the preceding year
 itself. d. That besides the advances received from A TS group in the immediately
 preceding year, the appellant, during the year under consideration,
 further received a total sum ofRs. 627.50 lacs from ATS group
 companies as Imprest for the purpose of buying further 100 Bighas of
 land for them; being Rs. 48 lacs in cash and Rs. 87.50 lacs by cheques
 received from Mls ATS Infrastructure Ltd. and Rs. 492lacs by cheques
 received from M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders Pvt. Ltd. Date-wise details
 of the same were provided, which were verified from the bank account of
 the appellant and also from the fund rotation chart during the appellate
 proceedings. These details included the impugned sums totaling to Rs.
 32.49 lacs stated to have been deposited in cash in the SB A/c of the
 appellant with Axis Bank directly by ATS and another sum of Rs. 15.51
 lacs also in cash stated to have been received from A TS for paying the
 same to a land owner, Mr. Anand Swaroop. Thus, total cash receipt from
 A TS during the relevant previous year came to Rs. 48 lacs.

e. That since the plots of land in question were being purchased by
 A TS group in the name of M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders Pvt.
 Ltd. through the efforts of the appellant, therefore, the only
 presumption can be that all funds were given by the A TS group
 only whether by cheque or in cash. The appellant merely utilized
 the said funds for acquiring plots of land for the group and
 made payments for that purpose whether by issuing cheques
 from his bank accounts or in cash according to the funds
 available with him in the said bank accounts or in cash.

f. That when the source and purpose of the cheques received from the ATS
 group had not been disputed by the AO for which no direct evidence is
 available on record except that the same were recorded in the bank
 statements of the appellant, how can the receipt of funds in cash from
 the same source be doubted, which were undisputedly, as per the

 Page 56
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 seized material, utilized for the same purpose of purchasing plots of land
 for that group. Thus, it is my considered view that the entire funds
 required for land purchase were given by A TS group by cheques as well
 as in cash to the appellant. Further there' is no reason otherwise also to
 presume that the appellant would have used his own money for
 acquiring plots of land in his capacity as the agent of A TS, especially
 when A TS had been providing moneys in advance to the appellant to
 acquire plots of land for it. g. That more particularly in respect of the impugned cash deposits
 aggregating to Rs.32,49,0001- made in the SB A/c # 12272 with Axis
 Bank of the appellant, it was explained by the appellant that he had
 paid Rs. 48 lacs in cash to two sellers of land, namely, Mr. Anand
 Swaroop and Mr. Sanjay Mohan Uniyal, on behalf of ATS in July, 2006
 for which Rs. 15.51 lacs were given by ATS in cash on 18-07- 06 at
 Dehradun and the balance sum of Rs. 32.49 lacs was subsequently
 deposited in cash in the said SB A/c # 12272 of the appellant with Axis
 Bank, Noida directly by ATS. h. That since the plots of land under purchase by ATS through the
 appellant were situated in Dehradun and A TS was based in
 Noida, the said bank account was opened by the appellant at the
 request and instance of A TS on 23-09-06 with Axis Bank having
 its branch at K-2I ,22, Sector-I 8, Noida because it was situated
 in the immediate vicinity of ATS's office at K-I9, Sector-I 8, Noida
 and also since in this manner A TS would be able to avoid the
 risk of physically moving the cash to Dehradun by directly
 depositing the same in the said bank account of the appellant as
 and when cash was available with it. i. That, therefore, the circumstantial 1 corroborative evidence establishes
 that the impugned cash amounts aggregating to Rs. 32,49,000/- were
 indeed deposited by ATS directly into the SB Ale # 12272 of the
 appellant with Axis Bank, Noida; and therefore, the addition so made
 should be deleted. After considering the facts and circumstances of the issue
 involved, it is my considered view that it was A TS which had
 undertaken the colonization project through Mls Prateek Resorts &
 Builders (P) Ltd. The fact that the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya
 periodically sold theirs shares in Prateek to ATS and their nominees at a
 pre- determined price goes on to prove that the appellant and Mr. Sachin
 Upadhaya were not involved in the construction or development of the
 colony at Dehradun and make profit from that business, rather their
 interest was limited to receiving remuneration from land procurement
 facilitation services rendered by them, which they received from selling
 shares of Prateek to ATS ultimately. Further, appointment of its own
 directors on the board of Prateek by A TS further supports the cause of
 the appellant that they were made directors in Prateek only with the aim
 of using their names as 'front' persons and also in order to bind them for
 procuring further adjacent plots of land for their colonization project.
 Thus, the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya only rendered
 procurement services while the land was being procured by A TS
 through them. Page 57
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 In respect of the addition of Rs. 40,93,200/- made in the AY
2006- 07 (Ground No. 4 in Appeal No. 196/09-10) and of Rs.
2,20,12,080/- made in the AY 2007-08(Ground No. 4 herein
below), the AO has stated in the respective assessment orders
that the cheque payments had been verified as made from the
appellant's bank account and accordingly he logically concluded
that even the cash payments recorded on that seized sheet must
have been made by the assessee. In my view it is lawful to presume
as was effectively so done by the AD, that whoever made the cheque
payments must have made the payments in cash also, unless it is
rebutted otherwise with some direct evidence. the benefit of the same
analogy cannot be denied to the appellant. Revenue cannot be allowed
to toss the coin and call "Heads I win, tails you lose". Undisputedly, the
land registries of the plots recorded on the sheet found in the seized
laptop were made in the name of M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders (P)
Ltd. There is ample evidence to show that the appellant and Mr. Sachin
Upadhaya were facilitating procurement of land In Dehradun for that
company. It is also undisputed that huge sums were paid through
cheques by the A TS group to the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya
for that purpose. Therefore, it is logical to conclude that even the cash for paying
on-moneypremiums.for the acquisition of those plots of land must also
have been provided by the ATS group only. Moreover, it is also clear from the fund rotation chart that sufficient
funds received from ATS group were lying in the bank account of the
appellant at the time of making the cash payments aggregating to Rs. 48
lacs to the landowners. Therefore; it is my considered view that it makes
no difference whether the appellant would have withdrawn cash out of
the A TS funds lying in his bank account to pay the said land owners in
cash or chose to utilize the cash of Sanraj lying with him instead. In any
case, the application of Rs. 48 lacs in cash was made out of total funds
received from ATS only, whether received in cash or through cheques,
but the said sum must have been received back from ATS first as
advance Rs. 15.51 lacs in cash and then by way of cash deposits
aggregating to Rs. 32.49 lacs subsequently in the Axis Bank account of
the assessee in Noida. Thus, it cannot be doubted that the necessary funds both by
cheques and in cash required for land procurement must have been
provided by A TS only from time to time. Even the test of human
probabilities supports the contention-of the appellant that the cash of Rs.
48 lacs had indeed been paid by A TS only to the appellant for procuring
plots of land on its behalf because it is unheard of that anyone providing
services would invest his own funds for the Builders and not be
reimbursed by them. Furthermore, the situation of the impugned bank in
the close proximity of A TS's office in Noida is another strong pointer in
favour of the appellant that the moneys due to him against cash
advanced by him towards land procurement for A TS must have been
deposited in cash by ATS only in the said bank account. Thus, even though no direct documentary evidence in this regard
could be produced by the appellant, yet there are enough
circumstantial/corroborative evidences unmistakably pointing at the
source of the impugned receipt in cash from ATS only. Accordingly, the
addition of Rs. 32,49,000/- so made is deleted. Page 58
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 (emphasis provided) 26. Addressing Ground No.3 it was submitted by the Ld. CIT DR that she

would simultaneously address the deletion of the addition of Rs.1.60 lacs

agitated in Ground No.2 and the addition of Rs.2.20 crores deleted by the CIT(A)

agitated in Ground No.3 by the Revenue. Inviting attention to the same it was

submitted various credit entries were found in the bank account of the assessee

and despite an opportunity the assessee failed to file confirmed copies from the

said parties. The CIT(A) it was submitted considering the submissions recorded

in page 22 to 26, ignoring the Remand Report of the AO that the evidence be not

accepted has accepted the assessee's version. Referring to the same it was

submitted that the additions have been made on the basis of the deposits in the

specific bank accounts and the submissions of the assessee have been

considered by the AO while making the addition and the same is self-

explanatory. It was her submission that no doubt the Remand Report has been

obtained and to the extent of the deposits from Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal the

mother-in-law of the assessee which issue has been given up by the AO himself

in 2007-08 assessment year the same may be followed but for the remaining

amount which is agitated in Ground No.3 the issue it was submitted may be

restored to the AO for reconsideration on merits. 27. The Ld. AR vehemently opposed these submissions for restoration.

Inviting attention to the specific objection in the Remand Report which is

extracted in para 7.3 it was his submission that the same has been addressed

by the assessee in para 7.4 and carrying us through these specific paras

alongwith the written submissions extracted in the order it was his submission

that the departmental request may be dismissed. Page 59
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

27.1. It was his submission that "TBV" it has been explained referred to "To Be

verified". It was submitted that at the time of recording the transactions where

the process is under way with various people, for various land deals which are

proposed or are in the process the event at time is recorded as it was in the

process of being finalized. The said recording on the part of the assessee does

not lead to any incriminating material or evidence. The event has been verified

and explained. Referring to the bank accounts maintained at Dehradun it was

submitted that Ms. Elizabeth despite agreeing for a specific price realizing the

location of her land was pushing for more payment thus originally P.O.s of the

agreed amounts were made from the specific Bank A/c and by way of abundant

caution one more P.O of Rs. 1 lac was got ready in order to deal with the

eventuality of that lady still insisted in hiking up the price. Since the assessee

was able to push for sale at the same originally agreed to price on behalf of

Prateek Group the Rs.1 lac P.O was got cancelled. It was submitted that while

negotiating and finalizing the deal both sides try to push for maximum and the

bluff has to be carried through and at times given up. The debits in the bank

accounts comprising of Postal Orders of Rs.3.50 Lacs and Rs. 1 Lac accordingly

stood fully explained. Similarly the two amounts of Rs.25,000/- and

Rs.35,000/- again found credited in the bank account stood explained as

Rs.35,000/- as receipt from his late mother-in-law, Mrs. Kaushlya Sehgal which

has been accepted by the AO in the Remand Report itself and Rs.25,000/- as

transferred from SB A/c12485 also maintained in the same Branch of the same

Bank i.e Canara Bank duly reflected in the cash flow statement as well as the

statement of affairs as on 31.03.2007. 27.2. Addressing the remaining portion which is the major portion i.e

unsecured loan from Mr. Sachin Upadhaya of Rs.2.20 crores the detailed

 Page 60
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

finding available in the order under challenge which has not been assailed by

the Revenue were relied upon. It was submitted that the detailed submissions

addressing seized document entry-wise has been addressed and explained and

is found to be supported by the bank account statements of both the assessee

and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya and the evidence on record considered has not been

rebutted by the Revenue. It was submitted that full facts have been explained

and after considering the same, the finding has been arrived at. Accordingly, it

was heavily relied upon. 28. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. It is seen as far as the remaining amount of Rs.1.60 lacs which is

forming part of Ground No.2 of the Revenue is concerned considering the facts

brought on record and the arguments of the respective parties, we find no good

reason to interfere with the following finding arrived at in para 7.5 (i) & 7.5 (ii) at

pages 26 to 28 of the impugned order:- 110778 of Rs. 1 lac was got cancelled subsequently on 21-04-06. It has

 Page 61
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

also been verified from the statement of affairs as at 31- 03-07 of the
appellant filed during the course of the assessment proceedings that
amount of Rs. 3.50 lacs was shown under the head 'loans and advances'
as advance given to Ms. Elizabeth for Prateek of A TS group. Moreover, a
copy of the sale deed dated 19-04-06 for purchase of land at Dehradun
by M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders (P) Ltd. from Ms. Elizabeth was also
furnished by the appellant, where it was found that the payment of
Rs.3.50 lacs had been categorically stated as made vide PO # 110777
dated 19-04-06 of ICICI Bank, Dehradun. Thus, the fact that the sum of
Rs. 4.50 lacs debited on 19-04-06 in the SB ale of the appellant with
ICICI Bank comprised of the two POs ofRs. 3.50 lacs and Rs. 1 lac as
explained by the appellant gets fully verified. Even the AO in his remand
report has accepted the explanation of the appellant in this regard after
verification. Thus, the explanation of the appellant stands verified as correct
and the source of credit of Rs. 1 lac also stands fully explained.
Accordingly, the addition of Rs. 1 lac so made is deleted.

ii. For credit entries in SB Ale # 12485 with Canara Bank - Rs.
60,000/- I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by
the appellant. The aid sum of Rs. 60,000/- comprised of the following
credit entries: It was verified from the two bank accounts of the appellant that the sum
of Rs. 25,000/- credited on 12-07-06 in the SB A/c # 12485 with Canara
Bank was received as transfer from the appellant's other SB A/c #
16456 with Canara Bank vide cheque no. 549276 on the same date. All
transactions of the said two bank accounts were found incorporated in
the cash flow statement for the relevant previous year as well as the
statement of affairs as at 31-03-07 of the appellant furnished by him
during the course of the assessment proceedings. Accordingly, the source
of deposit of Rs. 25,0001- stands duly explained and the addition so
made is deleted. Even the AO in his remand report has accepted the
explanation of the appellant in this regard after verification.

In respect of the deposit of Rs. 35,0001- stated to have been received
through Late Mrs. Kaushalya Sehgal, the mother-in-law of the appellant,
the appellant could not provide the name of the person who gave the said
sum or produce any evidence in support thereof. It is not understood how
and on what basis has the AD in his remand report got satisfied about
the same. Accordingly, the said addition is confirmed.

Thus, in the net result, out of total credits of Rs. 60,0001-, addition for
the sum of 25,000/- is deleted, while addition made for the balance sum
of Rs. 35,0001- is confirmed." Page 62
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

28.1. Considering the arguments addressing specific Ground No.3, we find that

the reasoning arrived at by the CIT(A) in para 7.5 (iii) at pages 28-30 which

reiterates the factual background of the assessee having acted as facilitator for

consolidating land at different stages for different parties when read alongwith

the evidences on record, we find that in the absence of any specific reasoning

justifying the request for a remand the request has to be rejected. We note that

in each of these years, the assessee had filed detailed Paper Book consisting of

all the evidences relied upon by the CIT(A), these have been confronted to the

AO and examined by the Ld. CIT(A) and after considering the submissions

advanced in writing extracted in the impugned order in order the conclusion

has been arrived at. Addressing these issues in the overall factual matrix which

stands un-assailed and finding ourselves in agreement with the reasoning and

conclusions arrived at the following finding of facts is upheld by us:- I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by
 the appellant. The details of moneys received from Mr. Sachin
 Upadhaya, who was a business associate of the appellant, revealed
 that certain sums totaling to Rs. 15 lacs received from him had been
 deposited into his bank account by the appellant whereas the balance
 sum of Rs. 2.05 crores had been paid directly to M/s Guru Ram Dass
 Education Trust (GRD) on behalf of the appellant by Mr. Sachin
 Upadhaya for purchase of land from it by the appellant. The above payments totaling to Rs. 2.20 crores made by Mr.
 Sachin Upadhaya were verified from the copies of the bank accounts of
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya furnished by appellant during the course of the
 appellant proceedings and cross checked with the statement of the
 appellant for Rs. 15 lacs deposited therein and also from the copy sale
 deed dated 07-03-07 in respect payment of Rs. 2.05 crores made by Mr.
 Sachin Upadhaya of the purchase of land by the appellant from GRD
 which contained the cheque-wise payment details therein. From the assessment order it is noted that the AO made the
 addition of Rs. 2.20 crores in the hands of the appellant under the
 averment that the appellant could not furnish a confirmation of loan from
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya along with his bank statement and the relevant
 income-tax return to prove identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of
 the said creditor. Whereas, it is seen from the copy of the assessment

 Page 63
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 order dated 23-12- 09 for the AY 2007-08 framed u/s 153C of the said
 creditor, Mr. Sachin Upadhaya, as provided by the appellant that it has
 been framed by the same Assessing Officer on the same date, i.e., on
 23-12-09 assessing his total income at Rs. 12.27 crores. Thus, the
 identity and creditworthiness of the said creditor cannot be disputed.
 Also, it is clear from the assessment orders of the appellant and Mr.
 Sachin Upadhaya that they were close business associates who were
 carrying out the land consolidation work for Prateek of A TS group as
 facilitators together and they had earned considerable amount from sale
 of Prateek's share to ATS during the relevant previous year. Thus, even
 the source of advancing Rs. 2.20 crores by Mr. Sachin Upadhaya to and
 on behalf of the appellant cannot be doubted. Further, it is noticed that the AO in his remand report has not
 controverted the payments to the tune of Rs. 2.20 crores made by Mr.
 Sachin Upadhaya directly to the seller on behalf of the appellant; but
 has rejected the explanation on the ground that there is no mention of
 the fact in the conveyance deed that the said payments were made by
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya on behalf of the assessee and, therefore, the said
 transaction is a benami transaction. It is a strange assertion made by
 the AO. I agree with the appellant that there is no legal requirement that
 the name of the lender must be compulsorily mentioned on the sale
 deed, or that the fact that the lender made any direct payments to the
 seller on behalf of the buyer should be stated in the sale deed. It is well
 known that in the case of home loans, banks insist upon making the
 direct payment to the seller, but neither the fact of payment nor the
 name of the bank as lender are recorded in the sale deed. Moreover, I
 also find that the appellant had declared the same as loan taken from
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya in his personal statement of affairs furnished
 during the assessment proceedings, thus, question of this being a
 benami transaction does not arises as alleged by the AD. Thus, the said
 payments stand duly verified in respect of its source. Accordingly, the identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of
 the said creditor for advancing loan of Rs. 2.20 crores to the appellant
 stand proved, and the addition made u/s 68 of the Act is deleted. In the net result out of total addition of Rs. 2,21,60,0001- made
 for the sums found credited in the bank accounts of the appellant,
 sources of deposits for sums totaling to Rs. 2,21,25,000/- stand
 adequately explained and the addition so made u/s 68 to that extent is
 deleted, while the sources of deposit for the balance sum of Rs. 35,0001-
 remains unexplained and addition to that extent is hereby confirmed." 29. Addressing Ground No.4, the Ld.CIT DR relying upon the assessment

order submitted that the assessee was required to explain the source of

investment in the specific companies and since the explanation was found to be

not acceptable, the addition has been made. In these circumstances, the

reliance placed upon by the CIT(A) on the cash flow statement it was submitted

 Page 64
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

was not justified. The Remand Report of the AO also it was submitted

addresses the fact that since no explanation was offered at the stage of

assessment proceedings the explanation now offered should be dismissed as an

after thought. 30. The Ld.AR in reply submitted that the availability of cash has been

established by the cash flow statement; date-wise chart of inflow and out flow of

Land Imprest moneys received in cash and cheque for the three years. These

have been relied upon and are recorded in the impugned order at page 31 and

32 and supported by the Paper Book also available on record. It was submitted

that the evidence of the seized material itself would show that a sum of

Rs.4,01,000/- had been withdrawn for personal utilization. For ready-reference,

the said submission extracted in para 8.2 is reproduced hereunder:- 30.1. Inviting attention to the re-joinder of the Remand Report it was submitted

that the AO's version was assailed and it had been submitted that the

explanation was offered at the assessment stage and the statement of affairs

filed before the AO duly explained and in the Remand proceedings also these

were again got verified by the AO. It was submitted that for some reason

known to the AO himself he now does not want to now refer to them. Reliance

was placed upon the impugned order . 31. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. Considering the arguments advance on behalf of the Revenue, and

the submission of the Ld. AR, we find that no infirmity has been pointed out by

the CIT DR in the finding recorded. It is seen that the observation in the

Remand Report that no explanation was offered during the assessment stage

has been rebutted by the assessee in its Re-joinder as reproduced from the

impugned order:- Page 66
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

31.1. The extended cash flow statement has been explained as amplification of

details already available on record by way of seized documents. In the absence

of any rebuttal on facts and finding ourselves in agreement with the conclusion

and the reasoning, the following finding in para 8.5 of CIT(A) is upheld. The

same is reproduced hereunder for ready-reference:- 32. Addressing Ground No.5, the CIT DR submitted that the seized laptop

reflected certain transactions pertaining to the year under consideration. Page 67
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

Relying upon the assessment order it was her submission that since these

pertained to transactions not found recorded in the books of accounts, the

addition on facts was justified. The explanation offered before the CIT(A) it was

submitted has correctly been treated by the AO as an after thought. It was her

argument that the facts and the submissions may need to be verified and the

issue may be restored back. 33. The Ld.AR objected to the request made. It was submitted that all along

the assessee has been considered to be a facilitator for consolidating purchase

of lands at Dehradun. This position accepted by the assessee as well as the

department. It was submitted that it is also an accepted fact that the assessee

was working alongwith Mr. Sachin Upadhaya for various builders at different

points of time who were contemplating purchasing lands. The builder groups

accordingly, it was submitted would utilize the services of the assessee for

consolidating. Accordingly the receipt of funds initially from M/s Sanraj Health

Services Pvt. Ltd.; RPS Group; Prateek Group and ultimately ATS who finally

entered the picture all stands addressed. The record of receipt of funds in the

bank account of the assessed from the bank accounts of these builder group at

different points of time is a fact on record; the purpose for advancing the loans

stands accepted by the AO and the conclusion is not disputed by the assessee.

Accordingly the explanation of the assessee, addressing the seized documents,

recordings in the bank statements and other supporting evidences available on

record cannot all be ignored by the Revenue and merely explained away as an

after thought. The infirmity if any in the evidences has to be argued and

demonstrated. In the facts where admittedly the AO has been given more than

adequate time and even today these evidences are available in the Paper Book

filed the reluctance of the Revenue to point out any infirmity and merely argue

 Page 68
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

that more time is required was strongly opposed by him. It was submitted that

if a Remand is directed it would amount to making a farce of justice. The Re-

joinder of the assessee available in para 9.4 and the submissions advanced

which have been extracted in para 9.2 were heavily relied upon in support of the

finding arrived at in para 9.5. For ready-reference, para 9.2 to 9.4 are

reproduced hereunder:- 34. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. In the face of the consistent stand of the assessee and the

submission advanced on facts addressing the seized documents alongwith the

entries recorded in the bank accounts and considering the explanation given in

the recordings made therein we find ourselves in agreement with the

conclusions drawn. The recording of "S" in the last column we agree indicates

Sachin Upadhaya and "M" indicates Mukesh Joshi i.e the assessee and the

document when read alongwith the copy of the specific bank account 21848

with ICICI Bank, Dehradun of Sachin Updhaya and the issuance of cheques of

Rs.18 lacs on 18.07.2006 and Rs.30 lacs on 19/07/06 paid in cash to Anand

Swaroop and Sanjay Mohan Uniyal. We find the conclusion drawn has to be

upheld. Page 73
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

34.1. Accordingly on a consideration of the entirety of the facts and

circumstances of the case and considering the evidence on record we find

ourselves in agreement with the following detailed finding on facts by the CIT(A).

Thus in the absence of any infirmity pointed out by the Revenue the same is

upheld:- 07-06 & 19-07-06. Thus, an excess sum of Rs. 32.49 lacs had been
spent in cash by the appellant up to 12-12-06 for and on behalf of A TS,
which was subsequently reimbursed to him by ATS by directly
depositing cash in the Axis Bank savings account of the appellant
between 14-11-06 and 12-12-06 as already held by me in Ground No. 1
for the A.Y 2007 -08 of the assessee herein above. Moreover, it is also clear from the fund rotation chart that
sufficient funds received from ATS group were lying in the bank account

 Page 75
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 of the appellant at the time of making the cash payments aggregating to
 Rs. 48 lacs to the land owners. In my opinion whether the appellant
 would have withdrawn cash out of the ATS funds lying in his bank
 account to pay the said land owners in cash or chose to utilize the cash
 of Sanraj lying with him instead. In any case, the application of Rs. 48
 lacs in cash was made out of total funds received from ATS only,
 whether received in cash or through cheques. Accordingly, sources for paying Rs. 48 lacs in cash, i.e., Rs. 18
 lacs to Mr. Anand Swaroop on 18-07-06 and Rs. 30 lacs to Mr. Sanjay
 Mohan Uniyal on 19-07-06, stand fully explained. In the nutshell, it is held that out of Rs. 2,20,12,080/-, total sum
 of Rs. 1 72,12,080/- had been paid in cash by Mr. Sachin Upadhaya,
 the source of which is directly explainable by that person only vis-a-vis
 M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders (P) Ltd. of the ATS group and no
 addition for the same can be made in the hands of the appellant at all;
 and further since the sources in respect of the balance sum of Rs. 48
 lacs paid by the appellant in cash stands fully explained, the addition of
 the entire sum of Rs. 2,20,12,080/- is deleted. However, as it has been reported by the AO that the books of
 account of the ATS group companies including that of M/s Prateek
 Resorts & Builders (P) Ltd. have been referred to the special audit u/s
 142(2A) of the Act for the entire search period and the assessments u/s
 153A of that group are yet to be completed by him. Therefore, in order to
 protect the interest of revenue the A 0 is directed to examine the source
 of the said sum of Rs. Rs. 2,20,12,0801- paid in cash by that group for
 the purpose of purchasing land in Dehradun during the assessment
 proceedings of the concerned ATS group companies and if not found
 satisfactory, the said sum should be added as undisclosed income of
 the relevant A TS group company." 35. Ground No.6 being general in nature stands addressed while deciding

Ground Nos. 1 to 5 as such, it requires no specific adjudication. Ground No.7

being residuary was not pressed. 36. In the result, ITA No.3151/Del/2911 is dismissed. ITA No.3152/Del/2011 37. A perusal of the record shows that pursuant to the very same search

operation following cash & jewellery was found:- 38. In response to the notice issued the assessee returned an income of

Rs.1,75,94,790/-. The returned income consisted of income from Capital Gain

on sale of shares of M/s Prateek Resorts & Builders P.Ltd. apart from "Income

from other sources" consisting of interest on FDRs and S.B.A/c. Over and above

this, a surrender of Rs.75 lacs towards miscellaneous income was made by

the assessee. 39. In the course of the assessment proceedings the assessee was required to

explain the cash of Rs.10 lacs found from the above mentioned locker and

Rs.7,56,000/- found from his residence during the search. The explanation that

the surrender of Rs.75 Lacs covered these two amounts was not accepted by the

AO leading to the addition of Rs.17.56 lacs made in the hands of the assessee.

Apart from that an addition of Rs.4,44,106/- was made on account of jewellery

found from Locker No.270 in Axis Bank, Sector-18, Noida held by him and his

wife and also from his residence. Addition of Rs.9,25,000/- was made as

unexplained expenditure on account of valuable assets found at his residence

these have been mentioned in un-numbered page 3 of the assessment order.

Inventurised and valued as per Annexure-A. Addition of Rs.1.75 crore was

made on the basis of seized documents page 23 of LP-5 which reflected certain

cash transactions. Apart from these, addition of Rs.1,01,25,000/- was also

made on account of loans stated to have been taken from Mrs. Kaushlya Sehgal

and from Mr.Sachin Upadhaya from whom despite opportunity confirmations

were not filed. 40. These additions made in the assessment order were challenged in appeal

before the CIT(A). Against the relief granted in appeal, the Revenue is in appeal

before the Tribunal on the following grounds:- on account of land without appreciating the fact that this addition
 was made on the basis of the seized documents at Annexure LP-5
 and the assessee was not able to discharge his onus as contained
 in section 68 of the I.T.Act 1961 to the satisfaction of the AO. 4. That the CIT (A) erred in deleting the addition of Rs.1,01,25,000/-
 on account of unexplained cash credit without appreciating the
 fact and without any basis ignoring the facts brought on records
 by the A.O. as the assessee was not able to discharge its onus as
 provided in Section 68 of the I.T.Act to the satisfaction of the AO. 5. That the order of the CIT (A) being erroneous in law and on facts
 needs to be vacated and the order of the AO. be restored. 6. That the order of the CIT(A) being erroneous in law and on facts
 needs to be vacated and the order of the A.O be restored. 7. That the appellant craves leave to add or amend any one or more
 of the ground of the appeal as stated above as and when need for
 doing so may arise." 41. Since the arguments of the parties in regard to Ground No.1 in the

present appeal remained identical to the facts, circumstances and arguments

advanced in ITA No.3150 & 3151/Del/2011. Accordingly for similar reasons

Ground No.1 of the Revenue following the view taken earlier therein is

dismissed. While so holding we have considered the finding arrived at by the

CIT(A) in para 4 that there was a lack of adequate opportunity before the AO;

that the evidences considered were relevant and crucial for deciding the issues

and have not been confronted to the AO whose comments were filed and

considered; the fact that the comments were filed after multiple reminders of

the CIT(A) by which time he had started to himself examine the correctness of

the evidences relied upon and recording the statement of the witnesses etc.

department whose affidavits were confronted to the AO, all facts which have not

 Page 78
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

been rebutted by the revenue and in fact, all admitted facts. Accordingly

finding no infirmity in the order in allowing the admission of fresh evidence

petition and in passing the order after obtaining the Remand Report, we

dismiss the ground. 42. Addressing Ground No.-2, the Ld. CIT DR relying upon the assessment

order submitted that by no stretch of imagination the surrender of Rs.75 Lacs

could be said to have been addressing the cash found at the residence and the

locker. The deletion of the addition which is challenged by this ground it was

submitted consists of the cash found from the locker and the residence of the

assessee totaling Rs.17,56,000/ (Rs.7,56,000/- + Rs.10.00.000/-) and the

addition of Rs.4,44,106/- made on account of unexplained jewellery found in

the locker and the residence alongwith the addition of Rs.9,25,000/- made on

account of assets found at the residence of the assessee duly inventorised which

could not be explained by the assessee. It was submitted neither any

satisfactory explanation could be offered nor the bills for purchase of jewellery

etc. and other luxury assets found in the form of LCD TV, Home Theater, AC,

Fridge etc. could be produced. 43. The Ld.AR relying upon the explanation offered before the CIT(A) in para

6.2 submitted that it is a repetition of what was argued before the AO. Relying

upon the following finding recorded by the AO himself in un-numbered page-2,

it was submitted that the hollowness of the departmental stand stands

established from certain facts available on record:- Sd/- Mukesh Joshi

 Thus, from the above, it is clear that a surrender of Rs. 10 Lacs was
made by the assessee in respect of cash found in his locker at the time of
operation of the same and a further surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs was made
during post search investigation in respect of various land transactions got
arranged/facilitated by him and from the above, it is clear that the
surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs made during post search investigation on account
of various land transactions did not include surrender of Rs. 10 Lacs made
in respect of cash found. Thus, at the time of search/post search
investigation, there was total surrender of Rs. 85 Lacs (Rs. 75 Lacs on
account of land transactions and Rs. 10 Lacs in respect of cash found in
locker) against which, assessee had declared only an amount of Rs. 75
Lacs in the return of income and the surrender made of Rs. 10 Lacs in
respect of cash found in locker has not been declared by him. From the
above, it is also clear that the cash found of Rs. 7.56 Lacs at the residence
of the assessee was not covered by the surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs as no
explanation was offered by the assessee at the time of search when this
cash was found from the residence. Also, at the time of surrender of Rs. 75
Lacs during the course of post search investigation, no reference to the cash
found at residence and locker was made from which it is clear that the
surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs made in respect of land transactions during course
of post search investigation did not include cash found at residence and at
locker. All these facts were explained to the assessee vide order sheet
dated 23111109 and in view of the above facts, he was asked to explain
and show cause as to why the cash found of Rs. 17.56 Lacs in total (Rs. 10
Lacs from locker and Rs. 7.56 Lacs from residence) should not be added to
his total income for being unexplained cash in addition to the sun-ender of
Rs. 75 Lacs made on account of land transactions. In response, it was
stated by the assessee that the said surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs made
included cash of Rs. 17.56 Lacs found from his residence and locker and
these amounts are not over the above Rs. 75 Lacs but were part of total
surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs. The submission made by the assessee have been considered but
were found to be unconvincing as, as discussed above in detail, the
surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs was made during post search investigation in
respect of land transactions made by the assessee and there was no
reference at all of cash found from residence and locker of the assessee.
Thus, it is clear that submissions made by the assessee now are just after
thought to cover up the unexplained cash of Rs. 17.56 Lacs found from his

 Page 81
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 possession. Thus, this unexplained cash is hereby added to the total
 income of the assessee treating it as unexplained which is over and above
 the surrender of Rs. 75 Lacs made by the assessee on account of land
 transaction. " We also hold that the increase in household drawings by the assessee for the

period under consideration i.e 3 years fully supports the conclusion that it

would have been applied to purchasing of TV-LCD, Fridge, Home Theater, ACs

etc. None of these conclusions drawn on facts on record have been attempted to

be rebutted by the Revenue. In the absence of any cogent argument we find no

good reason to interfere with the finding arrived at. Being satisfied by the

reasons and conclusions arrived at in para 6.5 which has been extracted

hereinafter, Ground No.2 of the Revenue is dismissed. Thus, it shall be wrong to presume that the surrender of Rs. 75 lacs as per
the written reply of the appellant to the said questionnaire of ADIT could only refer
to some the unexplained expenditure incurred on some land transactions as
averred by the AO. In fact, the said reply of the appellant clearly reveals that he
had made the surrender Rs. 75 lacs towards his undisclosed 'income' and not
unexplained 'expenditure'. Further, there is no dispute that the appellant was engaged m providing
facilitation services for arranging purchase / sale of land for other parties and
was earning income from such activities. Even the test of human probabilities
supports the cause of the appellant because it is unheard of that anyone
providing services would invest his own funds for the Builders and not be paid /
reimbursed by them for the same. Moreover, the record reveals that no land
dealings had been undertaken during the previous year relevant to the AY 2008-
09 by him either for self or for any other party, therefore, the question of
unexplained expenditure made during the relevant previous year on any land
transactions could not arise as disclosure of the undisclosed income was
undisputedly made by the appellant in the return of income for the AY 2008-09
and also accepted by the AO for that very year only. Thus, the said presumption
of the AO stands squarely rebutted by the appellant that the appellant had made
the surrender of Rs. 75 lacs towards unexplained expenditure on procurement of
various plots of land during the AY 2008-09 during the post-search enquiries. Page 85
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 Furthermore, the AO has also averred that since there was no mention of
the surrender of Rs. 10 lacs found in cash from the bank locker of the appellant in
the relevant surrender letter of Rs. 75 lacs, hence, both surrenders were
independent of each other and, thus, the same tantamount to a total surrender of
Rs. 85 lacs. I do not agree with this averment of the AO. The undisclosed income of
Rs. 75 lacs been surrendered during the post-search investigation and it naturally
encompassed the earlier surrender of Rs. 10 lacs made towards cash found in his
bank locker unless it was specifically stated as such by the appellant. In fact, the
appellant did not specify where the said income of Rs. 75 lacs had been applied
or kept by him at the time of search, thus, the only presumption that can possibly
be made is that the same had been kept in the form of cash or utilized by him in
purchasing jewellery and household items found at the time of search since it is
trite that a search draws an impregnable boundary around what really exists. All
incriminating documents in respect of unaccounted transactions were found &
seized by the Income-tax Department during the course of search & seizure
conducted on the appellant. Thus, what really existed was unearthed by the
Income-tax Department, and what did not exist cannot be imagined by anyone
including the AO after the search. An assessment can only be made on the basis
of cogent and corroborative evidences only. In absence of any evidence pointing at
the unexplained outflow of cash from the appellant except unexplained assets of
Rs. 31,25,106/- (i.e., cash, jewellery and household items) found at the time of
search from his possession and for which additions have been made by the AO,
the disclosure of Rs. 75 lacs as undisclosed income was sufficient to cover the
same and it cannot be presumed that the appellant wanted to make or had made
a total surrender of Rs. 85 lacs. Thus, it is my considered view that the surrender of Rs. 75 lacs included
the earlier surrender made for cash of Rs. 10 lac found from the bank locker.
Moreover, the said surrender fully explains the source of cash of Rs. 17.56 lacs
found from the residence and bank locker, jewellery of Rs. 4,44,106/- and
household items of Rs. 9.25 lacs found from the possession of the appellant at the
time of search for which separate additions cannot be made. Accordingly, the additions of Rs. 10 lacs and Rs. 7.56 lacs made for cash
found from the bank locker and the residence of the appellant are deleted. 11. Addition for unexplained investment in Jewellery found at the time of
search - Rs. 4,44,106 /- I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by the
appellant and also the relevant contents of the assessment order in respect of the
said addition. The statement of affairs as at 31-03-07 of the appellant coupled
with the cash and bank accounts for that year examined during the course of the
appellant proceedings for the AY 2007-08 clearly reveal that the appellant had
bought total jewellery of Rs. 3,69,000/- during the year. It is a matter of record that the gold rate per 10 gms. was prevailing at Rs.
11,700/- on 15-02-08, i.e., on the date of valuation as per the valuation report of
the departmental valuer; whereas the gold rate as on 31-03-07 was Rs. 9,395/-
per 1 0 gms. at the end of the year when the said jewellery had been bought.
Thus, the valuation of jewellery totaling to Rs. 3,69,0001- bought during the FY

 Page 86
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

2006-07 by the appellant, even if calculated by considering the gold rate
prevailing on 31-03-07 though it had been purchased on different dates during
the FY 2006-07, comes to Rs. 4,59,531/- [i.e., 3,69,000 x 11,700/9,395] as on 15-
02-08, which works out even higher than that valued by the departmental valuer
as on that date. Further, I agree with the AR that the-jewellery in question was the personal
asset of the assessee and he was not engaged in its trading in which case it
would' have been mandatory for him to retain the purchase bills for verification of
the IT authorities Moreover, it was not material if the items bought were different
from those found at the time of search since even if, for the sake of presumption,
the assessee had exchanged those items with different ornaments till the date of
search, the source of their acquisition still remained the same. Moreover, it has already been held by me that the surrender of Rs. 75 lacs
made for the AY 2008-09 by the appellant more than covers the source of
investment in jewellery found in his possession at the time of search.
Furthermore, even if no purchase bills could be produced by the appellant, the
preponderance of probabilities weighs in the favour of the appellant unless some
jewellery purchase bills had actually been found during the search and its direct
source could not be explained by the appellant. Thus, absence of purchase bills
does not mitigate the claim 1 explanation of the appellant. My attention was also drawn to Instruction No. 1916 dated 11105/94 of
CBDT containing guidelines for seizure' of jewellery and ornaments in the course
of a search. CBDT has instructed the authorized officers not to seize gold
jewellery and ornaments to the extent of 500 gms. per married lady, 250 gms. per
unmarried lady and 100 gms. per male members of the family in the case of a
person not assessed to wealth tax. In my opinion the said instruction has been
issued keeping in mind the Hindu customs and practices followed since ages of
gifting of gold jewellery and ornaments by relatives right from the birth of a
person till marriage on various occasions celebrated in between; and
 under this backdrop only it was felt by CBDT that such small quantities of
gold jewellery and ornaments should be accepted as explained without insisting
for its pre-declaration by the assessee. The reliance was placed on the following
decisions of the higher authorities in this regard: CIT Vs Ratanlal Vyaparilal Jain (2010) 45 DTR (Guj.) 290; Dr. Sushi I Rastogi Vs Director of Investigations, Income
Tax Department (2003) 260 ITR 249 (AIl. ); CIT Vs M.S. Agrawal (HUF ) (2008) 11
DTR (MP) 169; CIT Vs Kailash Chand Sharma (2005) 198 CTR (Raj.) 201; Smt.
Pati Devi Vs ITa (1999) 240 ITR 727 (Kam. ); DCIT Vs Smt. Jayita Bose (2004) 3
SOT 525 (Kolkata); Smt. Sulochana Devi Jaiswal Vs DCIT (2004) 90 TTJ (Jab)
974; Jai Kumar Jain Vs ACIT (2006)' 99 TTJ (Jp) 744; and ACIT Vs Gopi Lal Mor
(2007) 107 TTJ (Jd) 510. It is undisputed that at the time of search the appellant was living with his
wife and three unmarried daughters; and total jewellery and ornaments weighing
750.200 gms. had been found from the said family. 1t is also undisputed that
none of the family members of the appellant had filed their wealth tax returns
ever till the date of search. Therefore, total jewellery found at the time of search
was much below the limit of 1,350.000 gms. applicable on the size of the
assessee's family as prescribed by the said CBDT Instruction and, therefore, the
source of acquisition of it should be deemed as explained. The decisions of the

 Page 87
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

higher authorities cited by the appellant on the applicability of the said CBDT
Instruction in his case also support the issue in his favour fully. Accordingly, the source of jewellery valued at Rs. 4,44,106/- at the time of
search stands fully explained and the addition so made is deleted. ill. Addition for unexplained investment in household items found at the
time of search - Rs. 9,25,000/- I have perused the facts of the case and documents furnished by the
appellant and also the relevant contents of the assessment order in respect of the
said addition. Yet again this addition was made by the AO under the averment
that the assessee could not produce purchase bills of the impugned household
items. The appellant explained that the household items had been bought from the
declared income only but their cost had been charged off as drawings in the
books of account containing his personal transactions, which were specifically
prepared to facilitate verifications of transactions for the purpose of the search
assessment proceedings. On verification of the cash flow statements of the
appellant for the last 4-5 years, i.e., for the A Ys 2004-05 to 2008-09, it is seen
that the appellant had declared the drawings for his personal expenses as under: Thus at this stage Sanraj never came out in the open and the assessee was

acting on its behalf and Mr. Sandeep Sethi was M/s Sanraj's man. Thus Sanraj

 Page 90
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

directly never came out in the open and instead made the assessee to obtain the

General Power of Attorney from those persons in its favour where the assessee

was to facilitate the registration finally in favour of the M/s Sanraj. For the said

purpose M/s Sanraj made an amount of Rs.3.50 crores available through

cheques and Rs.1.85 crores in cash available to the assessee over a period of

time. However, due to certain delays on the part of M/s Sanraj, most of the

land deals it was submitted fell through and lot of disputes arose and are still

pending till date. It was submitted that the assessee still has to return the

advance of Rs.3.50 crore to Sanraj after the settlement of these disputes. The

cash component of Rs.1.85 crore it was submitted was utilized for buying land

or was disbursed on behalf of Sanraj during the 2006-07 AY. The documents

in support of the claim it was submitted have been addressed in pages 30 &

31 of the impugned order in complete detail. These copies it was submitted are

available in the paper Book filed and have not been assailed by the Revenue. It

was his argument that where the seized documents have been explained by the

assessee and the incorrect conclusions drawn by the AO on facts have been

demonstrated to be so i.e. incorrect thus the occasion to again restore the very

same explanation alongwith the evidences already available to the AO in the

remand proceedings and also today in the Paper Book it was submitted cannot

justify the acceptance of the department's request casually made without any

effort to show how the request must be accepted in law. It was his submission

that the very same document which has been extracted in the assessment order

shows a utilization/disbursement of Rs.1.85 crore on the right hand side

mentioning the date of 06.11.2005. The AO for reasons best known to him

does not want to read the document in full choosing to selectively refer to some

facts and ignoring the rest to suit his purposes. These facts and arguments

 Page 91
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

have been examined and accepted which despite having copy of the seized

documents in the Paper Book the Revenue does not want to address. Attention

was invited to the details available in the Paper Book. Heavy reliance was

placed on the written submissions at page 32 & 33. The assessee it was

submitted has also relied upon date-wise. In-flow and Out-flow of land Imprest

money received by the assessee both in cash and cheque in 2006-07 AY from

Sanraj which has been prepared on the basis of seized material. It was

categorically stated that the said chart has been prepared on the basis of seized

material and corroborated evidences that no further transactions, whether in

cash or by cheques, were undertaken by the assessee with Sanraj thereafter

from 1/4/06 till 31/3/08. 46.1. It was further submitted that the seized paper showing payment of

Rs.13.5 crore includes the payment of Rs.82 lacs made to Mr.Sachin Updhaya

who were both working in their individual capacity in arranging land for M/s

Sanraj at that point of time and making payments to different land owners for

and on behalf of the Sanraj. It was emphasized that in none of the agreements

of the assessee with Sanraj, Mr.Sachin Upadhaya was a party, it was submitted

that he was only a witness to those agreements and these two persons were

individually accountable to Sanraj for utilization of land Imprest money and

since the assessee remitted a sum of Rs.82 lacs to Mr.Sachin Upadhaya at the

behest of Sanraj out of its Imprest. Thus for the said amount thereafter Mr.

Sachin Upadhaya alone was accountable to Sanraj as to its utilization and the

assessee was no longer accountable. Thus all the other payments listed in the

other seized documents it was submitted was disbursed by the assessee to

Sanraj's local staff and its other associates for and on behalf of Sanraj till

06.11.2005. Rs. 25 lacs and Rs.17 lacs accordingly were given to Mr. Govind

 Page 92
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

and Mr. Sharad respectively who were associates of Sanraj in Dehradun.

Rs.11.585 lacs was given to Sanraj's staff which was temporarily based in

Dehradun. It was submitted that the entire cash of Rs.1.85 crore stood

disbursed on behalf of M/s Sanraj and only the cheques totaling to Rs.3.50

crore remained un-spent as a result of this the assessee declared net liability of

Rs.3.50 crore due to Sanraj in his personal statement of affairs as on that date.

Heavily relying upon the explanation offered before the CIT(A) and confronted to

the AO it was submitted that the relief granted in para 7.5 may be upheld. 47. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. The explanation offered by the assessee extracted in para 7.2

considered alongwith Remand Report with Ld. AR's re-joinder and the

conclusion arrived at in ITA No.3150/Del/2011 we find on consideration fully

supports the view taken by the CIT(A). We find that the Ld. CIT DR has not

rebutted any of the facts and evidences on record and has merely requested a

remand. The request has been made without bring on record any fact wrongly

considered by the CIT(A) or any fact wrongly ignored. Without addressing any

reason or argument in support of the request we find the request cannot be

accepted, without any valid justification. We have already addressed this

request re-iterated on behalf of the Revenue on similar reasoning qua the other

departmental grounds. The prayer so made we find has not been supported by

any cogent argument or for that matter any argument justification how it

deserves to be allowed. On going through the material available on record, we

find no good reason in the facts as they stand justifying interference with the

finding arrived at by the CIT(A). We find that the following Remand Report of the

AO does not inspire any confidence:- 48.1. On the other hand considering the departmental arguments, we find that

the reasoning and conclusion of the CIT(A) arrived at deserves to be upheld.

Being satisfied with the findings arrived at therein the departmental ground is

dismissed. The relevant finding is reproduced hereunder:- 49. Addressing Ground No.4 the Ld. CIT DR inviting attention to the findings

of the AO submitted that the assessee was required to explain the loans from

 Page 94
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

his mother-in-law Smt. Kaushlya Sehgal and from Mr.Sachin Upadhaya.

Accordingly to the extent of Rs.25,000/- sought to be explained from the

mother-in-law it was her submission that the explanation accepted may be

upheld but for Mr. Sachin Upadhya she would rely upon the findings of the AO

in 2006-07 AY. Apart from that it was submitted she would also rely upon the

findings arrived at by the AO in the year under consideration. It was submitted

that before the AO, the assessee did not offer any explanation in regard to the

loans, the additions accordingly were justified on facts. Relying upon the

Remand Report it was submitted that the additional evidence has correctly been

rejected by the AO. 50. Ld.AR on the other hand inviting attention to the submissions advance

before the CIT(A) which are extracted in para 8.2 and the re-joinder to the

Remand Report of the AO recorded in para 8.4 submitted that the AO in his zeal

to maintain the addition in the Remand Report forgot to address the basic facts

that Rs.25,000/- was taken from Mrs. Kaushlya Sehgal, mother-in-law of the

assessee i.e. mother of Ms. Eccha Joshi i.e wife of the assessee. It was

submitted that since the issue of loan from Ms. Kaushlya Sehgal is not seriously

disputed by the Ld.CIT DR, he would confine his arguments only to the

unsecured loans of Rs.1.01 crore from Mr.Sachin Upadhaya. The details of this

it was submitted have been addressed by the assessee and have been

reproduced in the order under challenge and also available in the Paper books

filed. The explanation of the assessee reproduced in the order it was submitted

would show that specific cheque Nos., dates and amounts have all been

mentioned and addressed and these have been supported and linked with the

specific bank details of the assessee and Mr.Sachin Upadhaya. These

arguments and submissions on facts have been addressed and are extracted in

 Page 95
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

pages 39-40 of the order. Photocopies of the two bank statements made

available to the CIT(A) are also available in the Paper Book and were also made

available to the AO in the Remand proceedings and basically consists of seized

documents and bank accounts of the parties. The very same AO it was

submitted has assessed the total income of Mr.Sachin Upadhaya as Rs. 39.38

lacs for 2008-09 AY. Accordingly the identity and creditworthiness of the said

creditor was fully known to the AO. Inviting attention to the re-joinder to the

Remand Report filed by the assessee and also reproduced in the order it was

submitted that despite confronting these facts and evidences, the AO merely

observes that Mr. Sachin Upadhaya is also assessed to tax in the same Circle

and the assessment in his case was also made at the same time as the

assessment was completed in the case of the assessee. Thus the facts are not

disputed and in no way can it be said to be upsetting the facts as claimed by the

assessee. Thus when these facts are confronted in the remand proceedings and

these facts are not assailed even today the finding arrived at in para 8.5, it was

his submission cannot be upset. 51. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available

on record. As examined in greater details earlier, we have found that admission

of fresh evidences before the CIT(A) was warranted on account of lack of effective

opportunity to the assessee before the AO. We have also seen that the evidences

considered have been confronted to the AO. A perusal of para 4 of the impugned

order would show that repeatedly Remand Report has been sought by the

CIT(A) and finally in the absence of the same the CIT(A) has proceeded to

examine the veracity of the evidences at his own level holding that the powers of

the CIT(A) are co-terminus with that of the AO. In the said exercise, verification

of the additional evidences was undertaken by the CIT(A) himself requiring the

 Page 96
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

assessee to produce the witnesses and deponents of the affidavit for examining

them on oath on 25.02.2011. We have seen that in the meantime, the Remand

Report of the AO was also made available. The witnesses etc. and the concerned

parties who had filed their affidavit, their statement on oath in the meantime

were also recorded. The impugned order it is seen has been passed on

24.03.2011 after considering the Remand Report and the verification of the

evidences by the CIT(A). It would be note worthy to observe that the written

submissions extracted in the impugned order dated 12.12.2010 were forwarded

to the AO on 17.02.2010 and after frequent reminders to submit Remand Report

it was finally made available only on 24.02.2011 for the three years including

the year under consideration. The relevant evidences are available in the Paper

Books filed. Thus in these peculiar facts and circumstances where the assessee

is making a claim that the amounts advanced through cheques from a specific

bank account of Mr.Sachin Upadhaya who as per the evidence available on

record like the assessee was also acting as a facilitator for land consolidating

deals for the parties and the said person has been assessed with the very same

AO thus the explanation relying on the seized documents and supported by the

respective bank accounts of the assessee and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya and the

other parties, involved whose correctness remains unrebutted the prayer for the

remand cannot be accepted. In the face of the evidences available on record

where the correctness of the explanation offered by the assessee has not been

demolished by either referring to some fact on record which has been ignored or

without referring to a fact which can be said to be wrongly considered. Without

any such effort the prayer for a Remand based purely on the leap of faith in

favour of the Revenue cannot be allowed. Some argument worthy of bring

accepted has to be made. A presumption that the assessee must be wrong

 Page 97
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

cannot be drawn. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and in

the absence of any infirmity in the impugned order, we find no good reason to

either justify upsetting the finding or to direct a Remand of the issue. Finding

ourselves in agreement with the conclusions drawn the departmental ground is

dismissed. The relevant finding is extracted hereunder for ready-reference:- Now, coming to the credit entries aggregating to Rs. 1.01 crore, each
 receipt comprised in the said sum has been verified from the bank
 statements of Mr. Sachin Upadhaya during the appellate proceedings
 and found tallying with the bank statements of the appellant. It has
 also been verified that the appellant also repaid Rs. 85.50 lacs back to
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya during the same year, hence leaving a net liability

 Page 98
 I.T.A .No.-3150 to 3152/Del/2011

 of Rs. 2,18,50,0001- payable to him as on 31-03-08, which is found
 duly declared in the statement of affairs as on that date of the
 appellant. From the assessment order it is noted that the AO made the addition of
 Rs. 1.01 crore in the hands of the appellant under the averment that the
 appellant could not furnish a confirmation of loan from Mr. Sachin
 Upadhaya along with his bank statement and the relevant income-tax
 return to prove identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of the said
 creditor. Whereas, it is seen from the copy of the assessment order
 dated 23-12-09 for the AY 2008-09 framed u/s 144 of the said creditor,
 Mr. Sachin Upadhaya, as provided by the appellant that it has been
 framed by the same Assessing Officer on the same date, i.e., on 23-12-
 09 assessing his total income at Rs. 39.38 crores. Thus, the identity and
 creditworthiness of the said creditor cannot be disputed. Also, it is clear
 from the assessment orders of the appellant and Mr. Sachin Upadhaya
 that they were close business associates who were carrying out the
 land consolidation work for Prateek of ATS group as facilitators together
 and they had earned considerable amount from sale of Prateek's share
 to ATS during the relevant previous year. Thus, even the source of
 advancing Rs. 1.01 crores by Mr. Sachin Upadhaya to and on behalf of
 the appellant cannot be doubted. Accordingly, the identity, genuineness and creditworthiness of the said
 creditor for advancing loan of Rs. 1.01 crores to the appellant stand
 proved, and the addition made u/s 68 of the Act is deleted." 52. The remaining Grounds 5 & 6 we find in support of the grounds 1 to 4

have already been addressed and thus being general in nature we find require

no specific adjudication. Ground No.7 being a residuary ground has not been

pressed. 53. ITA No.3152/Del/2011 accordingly is dismissed. In the result the appeals of the revenue are dismissed.