Is the rush to digitize information in India coupled with the same amount of effort toward privacy? The answer appears to be no, particularly in the case of digitized healthcare ecosystem.

In 2021 , the central government launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) under which it sought to connect digital health solutions across hospitals, labs, pharmacies, wellness centres, insurance providers, and other players in the health ecosystem. This came three years after the government put up the National Health Stack strategy for consultation in 2018 . This strategy aimed to digitize the health records of all Indian citizens by 2022.

Through ABDM, the government sought to create a single source of information regarding clinical establishments, healthcare professionals, health workers, drugs, and pharmacies, across India. Under the Mission, the government also created a health ID to digitize Indian citizens’ health records. While the government has made a major push to get people to create health IDs, even mandating that all medical colleges register patients via health IDs, it hasn’t made the same effort to ensure that it keeps health data safe.

A quick look at the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PMJAY) dashboard will tell you as much. PMJAY is a health insurance scheme by the Indian government providing a health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization to over 12 crores of economically vulnerable families. This scheme’s digital dashboard allows you to find patients availing treatment under the mission in various states without any login credentials. The dashboard will show you which hospital they went to, the date they were discharged, and how much they paid out of their pocket for their treatment.

This is enough information not only to triangulate information on people but also to figure out whether they had to seek any special treatment like surgery based on the out-of-pocket expense. Interestingly, this information disclosure appears to be a violation of the Health Data Management Policy, which is also the benchmark for the dashboard’s privacy policy. While the Ministry can easily argue that it is putting out this information with people’s consent, the people giving said consent don’t necessarily know what they are consenting to. In this context, the absence of any special protections for sensitive information, like health data, under India’s Protection Law poses a grave risk to people’s privacy.

Disha Verma, associate policy counsel at Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), who first spotted this data explained that through name, district, and the fact that only people from a certain income group are eligible for treatment under the scheme, it is possible to triangulate information on people based on the data on the dashboard. “So for example let’s say the person’s name is Disha Verma and Disha Verma lives in Barabanki district in UP, so there aren’t that many Disha Verma’s in a district, especially not ones who have sought treatment under a scheme,” she added, explaining how this triangulation would work.

“There are several studies now available that suggest that as long as you have some three to five [not many] characteristics on an individual, you can easily trace it back [to a person],” Shefali Malhotra, a research consultant at the Centre for Health Equity, Law & Policy (C-HELP) said.

Verma mentioned that the out-of-pocket payments could give someone yet another metric to learn more about a patient. As mentioned earlier, the scheme gives families a budget of Rs 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation in a year. This means that any out-of-pocket payment above this amount could indicate that a patient received surgery. “So if tomorrow I go apply for life insurance or health insurance, they have that data triangulated about me without much work, and therefore they can give me a much higher premium, or they can differentiate the service that they provide to me,” she explained.

Besides the privacy concern, Verma pointed out, this data could also violate the National Health Authority’s (NHA) Health Data Management Policy. Notified in 2020 and then revised in 2022 , this policy states that no one can publish, display or post publicly “any personal data of the data principal.” Further, the policy requires that health facilities do not publicize any database or record processed under it unless this data is in an “anonymised/de-identified and aggregated form.” A quick look at ABDM’s data privacy policy tells you that it is based on the health data management policy. This means that by putting out people’s names, date of discharge, and out-of-pocket expenses, the NHA is potentially violating its own policy.

Verma mentioned that in the past, ABDM officials have stated that the mission ensures data protection and is dedicated to data security. However, the NHA doesn’t treat data with the level of privacy it deserves. “You’re saying all these things, but in the same breath, you’re going ahead and publishing it of your own volition and inviting sharks to sort of come in and take a sniff of it and use that information,” she said.

Before we discuss whether the information disclosed by the PMJAY dashboard is health data, the larger question we need to address is “What is health data?” Traditionally, when thinking of health data, one might first think of information such as treatment plans, medications, test reports, and prescriptions. As such, one might question whether this information that the PMJAY dashboard puts out is even ‘health data’ before we even consider it a violation of the health data management policy. Despite what we might be first inclined to think, health data is a broad term and can include other kinds of information such as a person’s sexual orientation, fingerprints, facial images, the time of day someone took medication and even the steps one covered in a day, Malhotra said during IFF’s annual event PrivacySupreme.

While a person’s name and how much money they spent on treatment might not be health data, it is still someone’s personal data, Dr Nikhil Datar, a Gynecologist at Cloud Nine Hospital in Mumbai and a visiting professor at the Maharashtra National Law University explained. “And in a way, though it is not related to health, it is related to privacy because it is related to the treatment,” he explained. He added that while the law always talks about confidentiality, the ground reality is different. “Behind a patient’s back, their relatives come to a doctor and ask them for details about the patient and the doctors are not aware whether they’re supposed to disclose such details,” he said.

Speaking about whether this data disclosure by the NHA violates India’s current data protection regime [ Information Technology Rules (Reasonable Security Practices And Procedures And Sensitive Personal Data Or Information) Rules, 2011 ] Dr Milind Antani, head of Nishith Desai Associates’ Pharma, Life Science and Healthcare practice, argued that any identifiable information shared without express consent would be a violation under the law. “Hence, sharing names and medical records would be a violation. However, information regarding only expenditure incurred may not be a violation,” he argued. For context, the IT Rules, 2011 are the data protection regime till India’s data protection act is operationalised by rules.

Not only does this data not receive protection under the current data protection regime, but it will face even lower safeguards once India’s data protection law—The Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDP), 2023– is operationalised by the DPDP Rules. This Act doesn’t specifically define health data or ascribe any additional protections for it. Instead, it has removed the category of “sensitive personal data” which was present in the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 . The bill defined sensitive personal data as any personal data or metadata, including:

(i) biometric data;

(ii) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) data;

(iii) sexual preferences and practices;

(iv) medical history and health;

(v) political affiliation;

(vi) ethnicity, religion, race or caste; and

(vii) financial and credit information, including financial history and transactions

Similar to the Personal Data Protection Bill, the current data protection regime (IT Rules 2011) also includes the category of sensitive personal data and defines it as personal information including information about a person’s medical records. As such, this data enjoyed additional safeguards compared to traditional personal data. “So for example, under the IT Act, till now, corporations dealing with health data were required to audit their security practices at least once a year. Now, these entities, unless designated as significant data fiduciaries, will no longer need to conduct annual audits,” Malhotra mentioned when speaking at the IFF event. Given that even in the current regime, the government is disclosing information about the general public, there are concerns that reduced protections for health data under the new Act could potentially lead to increased sharing or exposure of sensitive medical information.

One might argue that any public disclosure that the government is doing through the PMJAY dashboard is occurring with user consent. Under the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM), those availing treatment are provided with a consent form . This consent form states that the data principal understands that the data fiduciary, the National Digital Health Mission (ABDM), or its ecosystem partners across the National Digital Health Ecosystem may use and disclose their data. Given the fact that users have consented to this data disclosure, even the IT Rules, 2011 allow people’s names to be put under the public domain.

Further, the consent form states that by signing it, the patient gives consent to the data fiduciary to process their data without explaining the purpose of this data processing. Verma mentioned that her key concern with this form was that it seeks blanket consent for all sorts of processing . “When you look at the kind of people who will be signing this form, the bottom 40% of the country, they are likely not that data literate and not that empowered to understand nuances like consent or privacy,” she said. She added that the fact that the government asked them for consent reassures people, without them thinking deeply about the specifics of what they are consenting to.

Speaking about the health data management policy, Malhotra mentioned that its amended version closely aligns with the DPDP Act. The 2022 amended health data management policy allows the processing of an individual’s personal data without consent in case of medical emergencies, in the interest of public health, and based on orders by a competent court.

Malhotra also pointed out that the DPDP Act does not require public or private entities to adequately inform users about the third parties they will be sharing user data with and the duration for which they will be storing data. “So last year, a study by the Center for Internet and Society and Privacy International found nine digital health apps in India were sharing their users’ sensitive information with big tech companies such as Facebook and Google, companies which are known to use this data for targeted digital advertising and profiling,” she said.

Further, as per a recent paper put out by the C-HELP, the deletion of the sensitive personal data category in the DPDP Act allows entities to process health/medical data for employment purposes without obtaining explicit consent from the person whose data they are processing. “This could very well mean that personal health/medical data can be used by employers to make decisions about recruitment, promotion or termination of employees,” the report reads. It argues that this non-consensual processing could end up making employment decisions discriminatory.

However, the employment aspect is only scratching the surface of the issues with the absence of health data-specific protections under the DPDP Act. Malhotra explained that the Act does not require public or private entities to inform people when they subject them to automated decision-making. “So for instance, I will never know if my health insurance claim has been denied by an algorithm, and if I don’t know, what recourse can I take?” she questioned.

She also mentioned that the DPDP Act doesn’t deal with anonymization/de-identification of data. This becomes a concern because the technologies used for these processes are not fool-proof. Malhotra and Rai expect the government to include de-identification under the yet-to-be-released Digital India Act or the non-personal data regulation framework .

It might be argued that this information disclosure was necessary for the sake of transparency and assuring citizens that people were actually getting help through government health schemes. One might especially consider that this the NHA’s rationale since India’s Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDPA) has diluted the most prominent transparency measure that the Indian citizens had, the Right to Information Act (RTI Act), 2005 . The Act modifies Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act and creates a right to deny information that relates to a person in response to an RTI request.

“This [the dilution] has been an issue for transparency activists, who file RTIs and get data on the beneficiaries of schemes and then verify the same door-to-door to ensure that there’s no corruption,” Shivangi Rai, the Deputy Coordinator of C-HELP told MediaNama. However, in the context of PMJAY’s disclosure, she questioned whether putting people’s information under the public domain is the least intrusive way of ensuring transparency.

To this, Malhotra clarified that with RTIs for health data, the information the government bodies share varies. She mentioned that even C-HELP has sometimes seen inadvertent disclosures of information (like people’s names) with the PMJAY scheme.  “And sometimes the data set has detailed information down to the state and the district [the person resides in]. So it’s easy. If you want to, you can trace that person back. So I think it also reflects on their data management system that they have,” she argued.

When asked if disclosure of information can be seen as a transparency measure, IFF’s Verma argued that transparency doesn’t entail breaching confidentiality. “Transparency would be like these many claims have been raised, and these many have been resolved, and if someone wants to check the status of their claim, there is a login available to do so,” she said.

People can log in to find information about their claims under the scheme and can even contact grievance redressal officers if the scheme doesn’t resolve their claim.“If you’re talking about accountability, numbers/proactive disclosures can do the job,” she emphasised. Similarly, Rai and Malhotra argued that auditors already audit PMJAY, and the scheme also has a fraud investigation unit to ensure that people don’t misuse it. “So if that check is there, then what is the purpose of people having this information out there?” Malhotra questioned.

In a lot of the information we found browsing on PMJAY’s dashboard, the out-of-pocket expense read “0” (zero). Verma found the same but argued that this doesn’t necessarily mean that all claims went through, adding that it could just as easily reflect that the treatment didn’t go through. “So the transparency that they’re trying to achieve through this action isn’t really showing us the real picture,” she mentioned.

Interestingly, while the DPDP Act negates health data-specific protections, this wasn’t always a part of the government’s plans. In 2018, the Ministry of Health and Welfare put out the DISHA (Digital Information Security in Healthcare Act) up for consultation. This act defined the government’s approach to data sharing between individuals and medical facilities and also between medical facilities. The DISHA Act said that a person’s digital health data was their property.

The DISHA Act also specifically defined “personally identifiable information” which included a person’s name, address, date of birth, etc. The Act said that the healthcare ecosystem could only use this information to provide someone with medical care, improve coordination between hospitals and provide information to guide medical decisions. This means that the DISHA Act would not have permitted the kind of disclosure we’re seeing under the PMJAY scheme because medical providers aren’t necessarily using this information to provide medical care.

Unfortunately, the government never implemented the Act, and so the government or private bodies appear to be free to make such disclosures. “I personally firmly believe that health data is critical data and not just ordinary personal data. Hence, it needs to have specific legislation. There is a need to have DISHA back,” Dr Antani. Fellow medical professional Dr Datar also argued in favour of a carve-out for healthcare-specific rules and regulations under the general data protection law.

Note: MediaNama redacted the names disclosed by the dashboard for privacy purposes.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event