SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help a Mate Save a Dear One from Qnet!
DATE: 2018-02-24
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7zqy3a/help_a_mate_save_a_dear_one_from_qnet/

--- POST TEXT ---

My long distance boyfriend is being allured into Qnet by a colleague and the whole Qnet at Starbucks gang. All their talk of Audis and BMWs and good Institute Alumni and people quitting jobs and shit is totally enticing him, while he works at a IT sweat shop and is hunting for jobs and has got an offer with a 50% hike which is still not enough for him.

It just seems to me that this colleague of his has caught him at just the right/wrong time depending on how you look at it.

Things we've discussed so far:

1. Me: Any MLM scheme, the primary source of income is getting more people in the scheme and not from the sale of their products, is just a Ponzi scheme, with some products thrown in so they can't be illegal.

2. Me: Amway/Tupperware while similar at least have something of value being sold at the end of the day (whether they are worth what they are being sold for is another debate altogether; but as long as there are customers willing to spend on those products I don't see the problem)

3. He countered by saying that in the case of Qnet the products are luxury items like 25/30 year holiday packages and Swiss watches etc. Just because they are products that I would possibly never buy, doesn't mean there aren't people who are rich enough to buy them. Then he gave me examples of people who recently bought those lakh+ watches for their spouse.

4. He said that least he will be doing something productive on weekends. And he wants to try his hand and something different

5. He's also talking about at least I'll meet 10 new people and they are people of a different class, etc. He's constantly talking about 'connecting with people'. 

6. He's read all the negative reviews on reddit, quora, Internet. He was told that people put negative reviews because they do not put enough effort into it. 90% people fail because they think its a get rich quick scheme and don't realise that it takes a lot of time and effort. In any field only 10% succeed. So pointing him to blogs and articles is not helping. 

7. I sent him a link to the Bombay high court case, where he said that Qnet won the case in Supreme Court later. My gooogling only found that SC put a stay on further FIRs being filed against Qnet. 

8. He's convinced they are morally ethical and genuine because they spoke and answered with confidence and details to his oh-so-intelligent cross questioning and it's all about the team and they have such an amazing team, they're almost like family. 

9. I also asked him, how are they making a profit if more than 50% of the selling price of a product goes as commission to various people in the chain? It means the product does not actually have that much value. For this, he said there is a cap of 9.something lakhs/week. He said I asked her the same question and she answered me properly at the time, but we discussed so many things later that I forgot exactly what she said. 

His parents have told him you can try if your interested, but don't put even a single paisa of your own. (The colleague who is referring him said that she is willing to pay on his behalf)

Initially, he also was saying I won't put any money of my own, but now he's saying that if he had the money, he would have already joined by now.

I have a very negative feeling about this whole thing and I can't explain why. My gut feeling tells me him joining Qnet will be the end of our relationship (a relationship that has survived more than 2 years of living in different cities). If he loses some money, it will still be okay, but if he changes into a different scheming/scamming person, I don't know what I'll do. I'm also highly disappointed because I never though him to be the kind of person that would get caught in this trap. 

TL;DR: My long distance boyfriend is being allured into Qnet. I have exhausted my list of arguements and need help to make him see Qnet for the scam/Ponzi scheme it is. I'm also afraid that him joining Qnet will be disastrous for our relationship.

Help me with any points I could use to see Qnet for the Ponzi scheme it is.

**My stance on Qnet, you either lose money or you make money by making others lose money, so either ways it's a bad deal, not ethically right.**