By Hon'ble Mr. Gokul Chandra Pati, Member - A

 The applicants, being aggrieved by the order of the respondents to
cancel the panel selected for promotion to the post of Junior Engineer (C
& W) in Mechanical department (in short JE) through 25% talent quota
promotion through the limited departmental competitive examination (in
short LDCE), have filed the present Original Application (in short OA), with
the prayer for following reliefs:- 2. The facts of this case are not disputed. The applicants, working s
Technician Grade-III had applied to participate in the LDCE. Their
applications were accepted after scrutiny alongwith 114 candidates who
had applied for the same in pursuance to the notification dated 6.8.2012,
and they were allowed to appear in the written examination held on
19.1.2013. The result for the said written examination was declared on
4.4.2013 selecting 16 candidates to have been successful for being
appointed as JE under the 25% talent quota, in which all the applicants
were selected to be placed in the panel dated 4.4.2013 (Annexure A-6).
On the same day i.e. on 4.4.2013 another letter was issued directing that
the selected candidates are to be deputed for 52-week training before
appointment and the training was to be held from 8.4.2013 to 7.4.2014. All
16 selected candidates were relieved to report for training. Accordingly,
the applicants also reported for training after being relieved. 3. On 4.4.2014, the Principal of the Training Institute wrote a letter to
the respondent no.3 (Annexure A-8), informing that all the trainees have
successfully completed the training after clearing the examinations and
they should be given formal posting orders. Thereafter, vide order dated
21.4.2014 (Annexure A-8), all 16 candidates including the applicants were
issued the promotion and posting order. 4. In the meantime, one of the unsuccessful candidate, Sri Anil Kumar
(respondent no.4), had filed the OA No. 117/2014, stating that there were
irregularities in the selection process due to various reasons, one of the
reason being permission to a number of ineligible candidates to participate
in the examination. The OA was disposed of with a direction to the
applicant to prefer a fresh representation before the respondent no. 2 who
will decide the same. In response, the respondents constituted a
committee for inquiry into the matter. During inquiry, it was found that out
of 114 candidates shortlisted for appearing in the written examination, 59
were eligible candidates and 48 were found to be ineligible candidates
who were allowed to appear in the written test. Out of ineligible
candidates, 9 were finally selected out of total 16. The applicants are the
rest 7 candidates, against whom no irregularity was found during inquiry. 5. After the inquiry, the respondents have decided to cancel the entire
panel selected for promotion to the post of JE under 25% talent quota vide
the impugned order dated 7.12.2015 (Annexure A-1). The show cause
notice dated 8.12.2015 was issued (Annexure A-2) to all 16 candidates
including the applicants to show cause as to why the promotion order of
the applicants will not be cancelled and fresh selection process initiated. 6. The counter reply filed by the respondents have not disputed the
facts. It justified the decision to cancel the entire process as well as the
promotion of the selected candidates, including that of the applicants,by
stating the following grounds:- 7. Heard Mr. Shyamal Narain, learned counsel for the applicant who,
besides reiterating the averments in the pleadings, stressed on the
following points:- 8. Mr. L.M. Singh, learned counsel for the respondents, countered the
arguments of Mr. Narain and submitted that the respondents have
concluded that the entire selection process to be vitiated as more than
50% of the candidates finally selected were found to be ineligible to
particiapet in the selection process. He further submitted that the
cancellation of the entire process was recommended by the committee
constituted to inquire into the complaints about irregularities in the
selection process and the inquiry revealed that out of 114 candidates who
had applied, 107 had appeared in the written test, out of whom 59
candidates were found to be eligible and 48 ineligible, as mentioned in the
impugned order dated 7.12.2015. taking into consideration the report of
the committee, the competent authority has decided to cancel the entire
selection process. 9. We have carefully considered the submissions and also gone
through the pleadings. It is noticed that the respondentsb have not
enclosed a copy of the report of the inquiry committee although the
decision was taken on the basis of such report. The Tribunal, vide order
dated 8.9.2017 had directed the respondents to file the copy of the report,
but the order has not been complied. Hence, we allowed the respondents'
counsel to file a copy of the report with written submissions by 4.9.2018. 10. The impugned order dated 7.12.2015 has stated the following to be
the reason for declaring the entire selection to be vitiated:- However as per Committee's recommendations, following
remedial action to protest the interest of those candidates who were
otherwise eligible but could not find place in the provisional panel
bearing No. CS/DPO/Selection/JE/C&W/ TQ/2013 dated 04.04.13
declared (notified) vide L.No. 753 E/EM/C&W/25% Talented Quota
dated 04-04-2013 are being taken:- (ii) Candidates who qualify in the Written examination and fulfill
 all criteria of selection would be place in the provisional
 panel in merit order as per vacancies mentioned in the
 notification and thereafter promoted to the post of JE(C&W)
 in PB-2 Rs. 9300 - 34800 GP - Rs. 4200. (D) On the recommendations of Committee and orders of
competent authority for quashing of the provisional Panel, as
detailed above, the provisional Panel bearing No. CS/DPO/
Selection /JE/C&W/TQ/2013 dated 04.04.13 declared (notified) vide.
L.No. 753 E/EM/C&W/25% Talented Quota dated 04-04-2013 is
hereby quashed and the office order issued vide this office letter
No. 753/E//ME II/JE/TQ/ on 21.04.2014 is hereby cancelled with
immediate effect. (E) All the employees place on the aforesaid provisional panel
are here by reverted to their Substantive posts at their present
station of working with immediate effect as detailed below:- From above, it appears that the only reason why the entire selection
process was held to be vitiated was because large number of selected
candidates (9 out of 16) were found to be ineligible. This is also reiterated
in para 5(g) of the counter reply. 11. It is clear from the impugned order dated 7.12.2015 that the
candidates who were ineligible have been identified and accordingly, 9
candidates who were ineligible for selection were identified. The nature of
irregularity was that when the respondents allowed all 114 applicants for
the test to appear in the written examination, out of which 107 candidates
appeared, 48 out of 107 candidates were found to be ineligible. Out od
these 48 ineligible candidates, 9 candidates were finally placed on the
selection panel out of 16, which was construed to be a large number as it
is more than 50%. There is no justification for such a conclusion and no
rule or policy guideline of the Railway Board has been cited by the
respondents in support of such a conclusion. If 7 candidates (instead of 9)
would have been found to be ineligible, then would the entire selection
process have been treated as vitiated? From the reasoning adopted in the
impugned order indicates that in that case , most probably the entire
selection would not have been treated as vitiated as the number 7 is less
than 50% of total candidates selected. 12. Learned counsel for the applicants has cited the judgment of
Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Rajesh P.U. (supra), which also lays
down the same principle that if in case of alleged irregularities in a 8 selection process, the tainted cases can be segregated , in that case , the
entire selection process should not be cancelled. In that case, the
selection process be cancelled only in respect of the candidates against
whom irregularities are proved after identifying these candidates. For the
candidates with no irregularities, cancellation of their selection process will
not be justified. In the case of Rajesh P.U. (supra), the committee
appointed to inquire into the process, had found irregularities only in
respect of 31 candidates. Hence, it was held that the cancellation of the
entire selection process is not necessary. It was held in the case of Rajesh
P.U. (supra) as under:- 13. We will also refer to the judgment dated 3.5.2006 of Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon & Ors vs State Of
Punjab & Ors (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/753943) in the Civil Appeal
No. 3411-3421 of 2005, in which, Hon'ble Apex Court after reviewing the
case laws on the subject has laid down the legal position in such cases
involving cancellation of the selection process. In that case, the State
Government as well as High Court had held the entire selection in the
PCS Class I and Class II (Executive) was cancelled by Government of
Punjab on the ground that for allegations against the then Chairman of the
State Public Service Commission, criminal case was initiated against him,
by treating the entire selection process to be vitiated. Similarly, for the 9 entire selection of the Judicial service during the same period was also
cancelled on the recommendation of the High Court. After examining the
past decisions/precedents on the subject, it was held by Hon'ble Supreme
Court that it was wrong to consider the entire selection to be vitiated,
without trying to find out if the cases where irregularities have been
detected, can be identified as distinct from other cases where the
candidates are not responsible for any irregularity. It was also held that the
cases where the selection has been followed by appointment, then further
steps are required to be taken before cancelling such
selection/appointment. In the cases the appointment of the selected
persons has been done, regarding the process to be followed before
cancelling the selection or appointment, it was held by Hon'ble Apex
Court as under:- It was finally held by Hon'ble Apex Court as under:- 14. The situations when the entire selection process can be treated as
vitiated have also been examined in the case of Smt. Kiran Juneja And
Ors., Mrs. ... vs Union Of India (UOI) And Ors. by Hon'ble Delhi High
Court (https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1497046), following the case laws
decided by Hon'ble Apex Court including the cases discussed in para 12
and 13 above and it was held by Hon'ble High Court as under:- .............................................................................................................................. 15. In Union of India v. Rajesh P.U. (supra), the Apex Court held that in
cases where it is possible to weed out the beneficiaries of illegalities, the
selection process to that extent only be set aside leaving out the persons
who had no concern with such malpractices. Following observations of
the Supreme Court need a quote: 16. In Umesh Chandra Shukla v. Union of India (supra) selection to Delhi
Judicial Service was in challenge. As per the Rules, every candidate was
required to obtain a minimum of 50% marks in each paper and overall 60%
marks to qualify for interview. The High Court, which conducted the
examination, granted 2 marks to every candidate in every paper thereby
rendering many candidates qualified for interview. The Supreme Court
held that grant of grace marks was illegal. Therefore, the selections of the
candidates who were given grace marks was held to be bad in law.
However, those candidates who were selected without any grace marks
and in whose case no illegalities were found were declared successful. Likewise, in the case of Harshendia Choubisa v. State of Rajasthan (supra), the Supreme Court held, where the awarding of grace marks by
the Government of Rajasthan on the basis of locality was found to be
irrational, unreasonable and illegal. However, the Supreme Court directed
that selection already made on the basis of erroneous interpretation
cannot be disturbed and the subsequent interpretation will be given
prospective effect. Moreover, even from the list of selected candidates
who could not join were allowed to do the same and the relief to the
appellant was limited only to their case only in the situation of their
having better marks than the selected candidates. .............................................................................................................................. 20. The Apex Court had the occasion to consider such an issue once
again in a recent judgment entitled Inderpreet Singh Kahlon v. State of
Punjab and Ors. . In that case one Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu was the 13 Chairman of the Punjab Public Service Commission between 1996 to
2002. Allegations were made against him that he got a large number of
persons appointed on extraneous considerations including monetary
consideration. Such appointments were said to have been made during
the period 1998 to 2001. On consideration of the entire material placed
before it, the State Government decided to cancel the entire selection
made for recruitment to PCS (Executive Branch) and Allied Services in
1998. Regarding judicial officers appointed to PCS (Judicial Branch), the
High Court constituted two Scrutiny Committees, which were accepted by
the High Court. On the recommendations made by the High Court, the
State Government terminated the service of those who were appointed on
the basis of the selection made by the Commission against the vacancies
of the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. The persons whose services were
terminated approached the High Court by filing number of writ petitions,
which were, however, dismissed by the Full Bench of the High Court. In
these circumstances, they approached the Supreme Court. 21. The Bench consisting of Hon'ble Mr. Justice S.B. Sinha and Hon'ble
Mr. Justice Dalveer Bhandari gave separate judgments, though with same
conclusion. It was held that if an appointment is made in violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, same would be void and
nullity. In view of the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of the
Supreme Court in the case of Secretary, State of Karnataka v. Umadevi ,
the Court further held that when the services were not terminated in terms
of Rules, but on the ground that various irregularities were committed in
the selection process involved, the applicability of the relevant provisions
of the statutes and the effect of provisions of Article 311 of the
Constitution was not required to be considered. However, before
terminating the appointments on this ground, the appointing authority
must take into consideration the foundational facts. Only when such
foundational facts are established, the legal principles can be applied. The
authority taking decision to cancel the process or terminate the
appointment, if already appointed, had to establish that the process was
tainted; that the entire selection process was liable to be cancelled and
the question, which requires consideration in such matters, is as to
whether due to misdeeds of some candidates, honest and meritorious
candidates should also suffer. The Court opined that a distinction exists
between a proven case of mass cheating for a board examination and an
unproven imputed charge of corruption where the appointment of a civil
servant is involved. Only in the event it is found to be impossible or highly
improbable that the tainted case can be separated from the non-tainted
cases could en masse orders of termination be issued. Both the State
Government as also the High Court in that view of the matter should have
made all endeavours to segregate the tainted from the non- tainted
candidates. 22. The Supreme Court also delineated the cases where selection process
could be perceived to be tainted by categorising them as under: 23. The Court drew the distinction between those cases where
irregularities were found in the selection process before the appointments
could be made and those where appointments had already been made. It
is one thing to say that having regard to the nature of selection process,
no person is appointed from the select list as no person has a right to be 14 appointed only because his name appears in the select list, but a different
 standard must be adopted for terminating the services of the officers who
 had completed about three years of service. In those cases where the
 appointees had put in a few years of service, the Court opined that before
 terminating their services, compliance with three principles at the hands
 of the State was imperative viz.: .............................................................................................................. 30. No doubt, there have been discrepancies in the selection process, as
 found by Prof. Vaid Prakash Committee on the basis of which he
 recommended cancellation of the results. However, the foregoing
 discussion would make it clear that the discrepancies were found in other
 cases and not in the case of the petitioners and it was also possible to
 separate the cases of the petitioners from those who were the
 beneficiaries of the irregularities. Prof. Vaid Prakash obviously did not
 examine the matter from this angle while suggesting cancellation. In view
 of the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in the judgments noted
 above, in particular the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) wherein
 the Supreme Court re-stated the legal principles after scanning through
 the entire case law, the situation where the cases of those who were the
 bona fide and innocent persons can be saggregated, the selection in
 respect of those persons is not to be cancelled." 15. From the above discussions, it is clear that as per the legal
principles laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court, before cancelling the
selection process entirely, the facts are to be examined carefully to see if
the tainted cases can be separated from the cases where there is no
evidence of any irregularity or malpractice so that the tainted cases can be
cancelled. In case the facts are such that it is not possible to separate the
tainted cases, then cancellation of entire selection process can be
considered. If the selection has been followed by appointment, additional
precautions are required to be taken as per the judgment in the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra). 16. In the present OA, as stated in the impugned order dated
7.12.2015, the inquiry committee had found that 48 ineligible candidates
had appeared in the written examination, out of 107 who had appeared for
the examination. Out of ineligible candidates who appeared in the 15 examination, 9 were selected and placed in the selection panel consisting
of total 16. There is no finding of any other irregularities in the examination
as mentioned in the impugned order dated 7.12.2015 as well as in the
pleadings of the respondents in this case. There is nothing on record to
show that there was any other deficiency or flaw in the examination
process, except for allowing 48 ineligible persons to appear. As revealed
from the impugned order and the pleadings of the respondents, the entire
selection was considered to be vitiated by the respondents, only on the
ground that more than 50% candidates of the select panel of 16, were
found to be ineligible to appear in the examination. If the number of
candidates who appeared in the examination is considered, the number of
ineligible persons appearing in the test was 48 out of 107, i.e. less than
50%. In this case, the promotion/appointment order was already issued
after completion of training of the officers. Hence, as per law laid down by Hon'ble Apex Court, in Rajesh P.U. (supra) and Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) with reference to the facts of the present case, we are of the
considered opinion that the facts in the OA before us are squarely covered
by the decisions and there was no justification on the part of the
respondents to have cancelled the entire selection process, since the
tainted candidates who were ineligible to appear, have been clearly
identified by the respondents and the applicants were eligible to appear in
the test and there is no irregularity against the applicants in the complaint
or in the pleadings on record. 17. Accordingly, the OA succeeds and hence, it is allowed. The
impugned order dated 7.12.2015 is set aside and quashed in respect of
the applicants, who shall be allowed by the respondents to continue in
service as per the orders of promotion to the post of JE. No costs.