The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has received 1,509 complaints related to digital lending mobile applications, of which around 1,019 were against unregulated and unregistered digital loan apps, the Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur told Parliament. In terms of digital transactions, the central bank received 137,823 complaints in 2019-20, up by 113% from 64,607 complaints the previous year.

Several members of Parliament had raised the issue of predatory digital loan apps in the Lok Sabha, and sought responses from the government on what corrective steps it had taken or proposed to take up in order to protect the public. In his reply, Thakur said while the RBI had issued a circular in June last year to non-bank lenders and banks to step up their transparency and disclosure efforts on digital loan apps and platforms, it had also issued a warning to customers in December and has set up a working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities.

Around 490 complaints were filed against registered lenders who disburse loans through digital lending apps, Thakur said according to Lok Sabha Question No.948, February 8, 2021 .”The matter has been taken up with the Chief Secretaries of the States requesting them to consider proactive intervention by the State law enforcement agencies as per applicable laws. Regional Directors of Regional Offices of the RBI are also in touch with the State Police,” he added.

Thankur also said that in the case of regulated non-bank financial companies, the complaints are sent to the RBI’s Ombudsman Scheme for NBFCs and other departments.

“In cases where the app is managed by a company not falling in the ambit of RBI, such complaints are taken up with concerned Registrar of Companies (RoC) in the State Level Coordination Committee.In cases where no information is available regarding the lending institution, then the complainant is asked to forward a copy of his / her loan agreement with the lending institution and upon examination the matter is shared with Economic Offences Wing, of respective State Governments in the State Level Coordination Committee,” Thakur said.

According to the Annual Report of the RBI’s Ombudsman schemes for 2019-20, complaints related to digital transactions have grown by 113% to 137,823 for 2019-20 compared to 64,607 complaints in the previous year. Digital transaction complaints now account for 44.66% of all complaints received by the RBI’s Ombudsman, compared to 33% in the previous year, it said.

The RBI currently runs three separate Ombudsman Scheme, for banks, non-banks and digital transactions, respectively. It plans to merge all three schemes into a one holistic ‘One Nation One Ombudsman’ platform.

Of the 67,800 complaints received by the RBI’s Ombudsman related to debit cards in 2019-20, around 31,832 complaints were related to account debited but cash not dispensed by ATMs (up by 64% from 2018-19) and around 15,752 complaints were related to debit in account without use of the card or details of the card (up by 251% 2018-19). Only 7,511 complaints filed with the RBI’s Ombudsman were related to stolen or cloned cards, up by 51% from the previous year.

Around 56.12% of all complaints related to digital payments were settled through mutual agreements, while 43.88% of complaints were rejected on the grounds that the complaint was ‘not on grounds of complaint.’ This calls for creation of greater awareness among complainants about the Ombudsman Scheme for Digital Transactions, the RBI said.

It is important to note that this is not an exhaustive list of entities against whom complaints were filed between 2019-20, but a list of the entities that received the most complaints.

Pre-Paid Instruments

Bharat Bill Payments

Payments Banks

Private Banks

Public Sector Banks

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event