This present appeal by the assessee is preferred

against the Final Assessment Order dated 18.09.2012 passed

under section 144C read with section 143(3) of the Income Tax

Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act"). 2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly

owned subsidiary of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH")

and is engaged in the business of trading of Currency Verification

and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and assembling and

distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

providers. Further, the company is also engaged in providing

software services to G&D GmBH. 2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an

income of Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised

declaring an income of RS. 3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee

had entered into international transactions, reference was made

to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the Arm's

Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of

the transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:- 2. Import of Raw Material for SIM 11,97,70,998
 Card ("Assembly Function") 3. Software Development 8,93,34,164 4. Sale of SIM Cards 4,94,72,539 5. Import of Capital Equipment 2,22,07,884 6. Provision of Installation Services 93,23,193 7. Service Expenses 1,11,21,465 8. Commission Expenses 48,84,400 9. Interest on External Commercial 73,87,140
 Borrowing 10. Repairs and Maintenance 59,09,162 11. Other Expenses 34,97,831 12. Reimbursement of Expenses 51,43,772 13. Sale of others 1,13,248 3 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

2.2 From the international transactions declared by the

Assessee, the TPO picked up the transactions regarding the Software

Development Segment and the SIM Card Assembly Segment. With

regard to the Software Development Segment, the Assessee had

selected OP/OC as the Profit Level Indicator ("PLI") whilst applying

TNMM as the Most Appropriate Method ("MAM") and declared its

margin at 11.04%. The assessee, further, in its Transfer Pricing Study

(TP Study) had selected a total of 18 comparables with an average

OP/OC of 14.05% and hence claimed the said transaction to be at

arm's length. The TPO while accepting the MAM as selected by the

assessee, accepted only 7 out of the 18 comparables and further

introduced 12 additional comparables with an average OP/OC of

24.95% thereby determining an adjustment of Rs. 1,10,57,340/- for

the Software Development Segment. 2.3 In the SIM Card Assembly Segment, the assessee had

declared a PLI of (15.22%) and justified the same to be owing to

various circumstances such as initial years of operation, high

competition in the market etc. The assessee, in its TP study, had

selected 5 comparables with an average OP/OC of 6.39%. During the

transfer pricing proceedings, the TPO issued a show cause notice to

the assessee and vide the assessee's reply dated 05.10.2011, the

assessee submitted a detailed reasoning as to why it had incurred 4 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

losses and additionally also objected to one of the comparables

selected by the assessee itself which was acceded to by the TPO.

Thereafter, the final OP/OC of the comparables was worked out at

4.78% as opposed the margin of (15.22%) of the Assessee and an

adjustment of Rs. 12,04,39,125/- was determined by the TPO.

2.4 Aggrieved, the assessee preferred to file objections before

the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel ("DRP"), which were disposed off

vide directions dated 08.08.2012. The Ld. DRP upheld the action of

the TPO vis-à-vis the software development segment. Regarding the

SIM Card Assembly Segment, the Ld. DRP rejected the plea of the

assessee regarding provision for capacity under-utilization

adjustment and working capital adjustment, but granted partial relief

whilst directing exclusion of one comparable namely M/s Solectron

EMS Limited. 2.5 The said directions culminated into the final assessment

order dated 18.09.2012 against which the assessee has approached

the ITAT and has raised the following grounds of appeal:- 4. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the
 Hon'ble DRP erred in not granting the benefit of the 5%
 variation as per the proviso to section 92C(2) of the Act to the
 Appellant, as the law stood at the time of preparation of TP
 documentation. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) 5. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO
 erred in initiating penalty proceedings under section
 271(1)(c) of the Act. 6. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO
 erred in levying interest under section 234B of the Act. 7. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO
 has erred in not granting full credit of advance tax of
 Rs.20,698,500 paid by the appellant and also short credit of
 tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872 on the income of the
 appellant." 2.6 The assessee, vide application dated 24.09.2014, has also

raised the following additional grounds:- 3.1 We now take up the assessee's grounds (Ground Nos. 1 to

1.5) regarding the software development segment. Both the parties

have agreed that lower authorities have not disputed the functional

profile of the assessee under the Software Development Segment,

wherein the assessee was acting as a captive service provider and all

the risks were borne by the Associated Enterprise (AE). The assessee

did not own any intellectual property. The assessee, vide a detailed

chart, has agitated the exclusion of the following 16 comparables and

the inclusion of 2 comparables finally selected by the TPO: 7.6.2 We also find substantial merit in the contention of the
 learned Authorised Representative that this company has
 been selected by the TPO as an additional comparable only
 on the ground that this company was selected in the earlier
 year. Even in the earlier year, it is seen that this company
 was not selected on the basis on any search process carried
 out by the TPO but only on the basis of information collected
 under section 133(6) of the Act. Apart from placing reliance
 on the judicial decision cited above, including the assessee's
 own case for Assessment Year 2007-08, the assessee has
 brought on record evidence that this company is functionally
 dis-similar and different from the assessee and hence is not
 comparable. Therefore the finding excluding it from the list of
 comparables rendered in the immediately preceding year is
 applicable in this year also. Since the functional profile and
 other parameters by this company have not undergone any
 change during the year under consideration which fact has
 been demonstrated by the assessee, following the decisions
 of the co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the assessee's
 own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA
 No.845/Bang/2011 dt.22.2.2013, and in the case of
 Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA
 No.1054/Bang/2011), we direct the A.O./TPO to omit this
 company from the list of comparables." 6.4.2 Following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of
this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd.
(supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this
company from the list of comparables." (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.4 We are of the view that the factual matrix is similar with

the decision of co-ordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs.

ACIT , [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.). Respectfully

following the view taken by co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal, we

direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. We also note that since complete details of this

comparable is not available in public domain and there is

contradiction in the information collected under section 133(6) of the

Act and the annual report then such a company cannot be selected as

a fit comparable. (ii) Bodhtree Consulting Limited ("Bodhtree"): Our view is fortified by the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court

in the case of Pr. CIT vs. Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt. Ltd in ITA

681/2015, vide order dated 28.09.2015, wherein the High Court had

categorically held that the Tribunal was justified in adjudicating a

comparable which was not agitated by the assessee either before the

TPO or the Ld. DRP. 3.2.8 We note that the coordinate Bench of the ITAT in Nokia

Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013

has excluded this comparable by observing as follows: 46. There is no dispute that the Aircom is also into the business of
 software development and providing related services to its AE. We
 are, therefore, of the considered opinion that being a software
 solutions company which is engaged in providing open and end-
 to-end web solutions, software consultancy, design and
 development of solutions, using the latest technologies, Bodhtree
 company cannot be compared to the assessee which is a captive
 software developer for its AE's." 3.2.9 We are of the view that the factual matrix in the present

matter is similar with the decision of coordinate bench in Nokia

Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013

and respectfully following the view taken by co-ordinate Bench of

Tribunal, we direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the

list of comparables. Our view is further fortified by the judgment of

the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Saxo India (supra)

wherein their Lordships have clarified that a company engaged in

providing Software Development Service cannot be regarded as a fit 20 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

comparable to a company engaged in providing both Software

Development and Software Product services and sufficient segmental

details are not available. (iii) Celestial Labs ("Celestial"): vs. DCIT reported in [2015] 376 ITR 183 (Delhi) and Avenue Asia

Advisors Private Limited vs. DCIT (ITA No. 350/2016) and submitted

that the functionality of an entity is the key determinative factor for

its inclusion or exclusion in the list of comparables and there is no

such thing as estoppel on the ground that the assessee had accepted

the entity as being functionally comparable in a previous assessment 21 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

year. It was fairly accepted that though there is no finding of the Ld.

DRP on this comparable but since all material facts are available on

record and there is no dispute on application of filters, adjudication

on this comparable could be made. 3.2.11 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that Celestial could

not be held as a comparable since its functionality was very different

from that of the Assessee. It was further submitted that Celestial was

into bio-informatics software products and owing to insufficiency of

segmental data in the Annual Report, the same could not be accepted

as a comparable. The Ld. Counsel took us through the annual report

to show that during the impugned year Celestial had issued an IPO

and also owned intangibles. 3.2.12 On the contrary, the Ld. CIT DR appearing on behalf of the

Department contended that the said comparable had already been

accepted by the assessee as being functionally comparable in the

preceding year and hence the assessee was barred from taking a

contrary stand in the impugned year. On merits she placed strong

reliance on the orders of the TPO/ Ld. DRP and contended that the

findings of the TPO were well substantiated. 3.2.13 Having heard the parties, we are in agreement with the

contentions of the Ld. Counsel for assessee that unless the Function,

Assets and Risk profile of a comparable is demonstrated to be 22 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

similar/dissimilar from record, a comparable cannot per se be

excluded / included only on account of its selection in the previous

assessment year. Rule 10B(1)(e) read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the

Income Tax Rules, 1962 lays down broad parameters regarding

comparability of a controlled transaction with an uncontrolled

transaction. It is well settled that there can be no estoppel against

law. Selection of comparable being a factual exercise needs to be

undertaken by looking at the functions, assets and risk profile of a

comparable for that relevant assessment period. Our view is further

fortified by the judgments of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. vs. CIT , [2015] 377 ITR 533 (Delhi),

Chryscapital Investment Advisors Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT [2015] 376 ITR

183 (Delhi) and Avenue Asia Advisors Private Limited vs. DCIT (ITA

No. 350/2016). 3.2.14 On merits, we are of the view that the factual position in

the present matter is similar with the decision of the Bangalore Bench

of the Tribunal in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in

[2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.), wherein this

comparable was excluded by the coordinate bench whilst observing as

follows : 7.4.2 Following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of
 this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra)
 for Assessment Year 2008-09, we direct the Assessing
 Officer/TPO to omit this company from the list of comparables." 3.2.15 Respectfully following the decision of coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63

taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.), we direct the Assessing

Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the final list of

comparables. (iv) E-Zest Solutions Limited("E-Zest"): ordinate bench has held as under:-- 8.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench of this
Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for
Assessment Year 2008-09, we direct the Assessing Officer to
exclude this company i.e. e-Zest Solutions Ltd., from the list of
comparables." (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.19 Respectfully following the decision of coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63

taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.), we direct the Assessing

Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the final list of

comparables. (v) Igate Global Solutions Ltd. ("Igate"): He also drew our attention to the fact that there was a merger during

the relevant year. Hence, it was submitted that the said comparable

deserves to be excluded. It was fairly accepted that though there is no

finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable but since all the material

facts were available on record and as there was no dispute on

application of filters,the issue could be adjudicated. He relied on the 28 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

co-ordinate bench's decision in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks

India Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013 in which the co-

ordinate bench, whilst appreciating the fact that Igate was providing

various services and owing to the fact that there was no segmental

data, directed its exclusion. 3.2.21 The Ld. CIT DR, on the other hand, whilst taking support

from the orders of the lower authorities vehemently supported Igate's

inclusion. She fairly conceded that since the assessee is not arguing

regarding application of filters and reliance is placed only on the

financials to demonstrate difference in functionality, she has no

objection if the issue of exclusion of this comparable is adjudicated by

the Bench. 3.2.22 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the

material on record. In view of the necessary facts being available on

record, we do not see any impediment in adjudicating this

comparable. On merits, we do not agree with the submissions of Ld.

Counsel for the assessee that this Company ought to be removed from

the list of comparables only on account of disclosure of

'Amalgamation' in the Annual Report being undertaken during this

relevant period. The Ld. Counsel has not shown the effect of this

exceptional event (Amalgamation) on the financials for the relevant

period. However, we agree with the submissions of the Ld. Counsel for 29 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

Assessee that this company is engaged in providing array of services

under the head Software Development and ITES and there are

insufficient segmental details vis-a-vis services rendered under these

heads. We note that for similar reasons this company was excluded

by coordinate Bench in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt.

Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013. Respectfully following the

view taken by the coordinate Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude

this company from the list of comparables. (vi) Infosys Technologies Ltd. ("Infosys"): (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.24 Per contra the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed

heavy reliance on the order passed by the lower authorities.

3.2.25 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the

relevant material on record. We notice that on similar set of facts

coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks

India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, has excluded this

comparable by observing as follows: After making comparison of various factors as enumerated
 above, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court held Infosys Ltd. to be
 non-comparable with Agnity India TechnologiesPvt. Ltd. The
 facts of the instant case are similar to the extent that the
 extant assessee is also not owning any branded products
 and having no expenditure on R&D etc. When we consider
 all the above factors in a holistic manner, there remains
 absolutely no doubt that Infosys Technologies Ltd. is not
 comparable with the assesse company. Respectfully
 following the judgment of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High
 Court in Agnity India (supra), we hold that Infosys
 Technologies Ltd., cannot be treated as comparable with the
 assessee company. This company is, therefore, directed to
 be excluded from the list of comparables." 80. The diversified activities of business, its deployment of
 capital, resources and the brand name make this company not
 comparable with the assessee and, therefore, this company has to
 be excluded from the final set of comparable companies for
 benchmarking international transaction related to software
 segment." 3.2.26 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, whilst, following the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High

Court, as afore mentioned, we direct the AO/ TPO to exclude Infosys

from the final list of comparables. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (vii) Kals Systems Limited (Segmental) ["Kals"]: 4.24%. What has been written is that the company's use of
the readymade object laboratories is only to the tune of
maximum 4.24%. By no imagination this can be construed
as revenues from software products. When we peruse the
Annual report of this company, which is available in the
paper book, it can be seen that there is no such mention of
software products revenue limited to 4.24%. On the contrary,
it has been mentioned in the Notes to the financial statement
that: "the company is engaged in development of software
and software products since its inception." The company
consisting of STPI unit is engaged in software products and
development of software and is also undertaking training
activity of software professionals on online projects. Not only
the revenues of the segment considered by the TPO also
include the revenue from software products, but also from
training imparted on commercial basis. It is clear that the
assessee is not providing any training under this segment,
which has been rather included by the assessee in the
second category of the assessee's business, namely,
'Software Deployment, Training, Consultancy and
Equipment Rental.' Since the assessee's activity under this
segment does not include any revenue from training, but the
revenue of Kals Information Systems Ltd., for the purpose of
comparison includes income from training, this company
ceases to be comparable with the assessee's segment of
`Software development services'. Similar view has been
taken by the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for the
immediately preceding assessment years 2006-07 and
2007-08. Respectfully following the precedents, we hold that
Kals Information Systems Ltd. (Seg.) should be expunged
from the set of comparables." (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) 84. No change of circumstances is brought to our notice either by
 the assesse or the revenue, as such we do not find any reason to
 take a different view from the view taken by this Tribunal for the
 earlier year. We, therefore, consequently hold that this company is
 not a valid comparable to that of the assessee and has to be
 excluded from the final set of comparable companies for
 benchmarking international transaction related to software
 segment." 3.2.30 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude Kals from the list of

comparables. (viii) LGS Global Ltd. ("LGS"): He submitted that although the said comparable was submitted by

the assessee itself in the Transfer Pricing study, but it was objected to

during the TP proceedings itself as is evident from Pg. 68 of the TPO's

order. 3.2.32 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that LGS could not

be considered as a comparable owing to functional differences in the

profile of LGS in comparison to that of the assessee. He took us

through various pages of the Annual Report to demonstrate that LGS

was an end-to-end service provider and was providing product

evaluation, design and development of products. Additionally, it was

also pointed out that this comparable was providing BPO Services in

the field of Human Resources, life sciences, legal services, supply

chain management, sales, customer support etc. He drew our

attention to the notes to accounts to substantiate that segmental data

for the variety of services was not available. It was further submitted

that the said comparable failed the TPO's own foreign exchange

earning filter. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.33 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative, on the other

hand, strongly opposed the assessee agitating the said comparable

since the same was submitted and accepted by the assessee in its

Transfer Pricing study. Additionally, the Ld. CIT DR relied on the

orders of the TPO and the Ld. DRP. 3.2.34 We have heard the parties at length and also perused the

material on record. We agree with the arguments advanced by the Ld.

Counsel for the assessee that there can be no estoppel against law in

terms of selection of a comparable and the comparability has to be

adjudicated in terms of parameters laid down under Rule 10B of the

Rules. Our view is further fortified by the judgment of the Hon'ble

Bombay High Court in CIT vs. Tata Power Solar Systems Ltd. reported

in [2017] 298 CTR 197 (Bombay), wherein it has been observed as

follows : 3.2.35 On merits, we note that on similar set of facts, the

coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks

India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, has excluded this

comparable by observing as follows: 3.2.36 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. (ix) Mindtree Limited (Segmental) ["Mindtree"]: 3.2.41 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (x) Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd. ("Persistent"): The learned Authorised Representative prays that in view of
 the above, this company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. be
 omitted from the list of comparables. 17.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative support
the action of the TPO in including this company in the list of
comparables. 17.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and
carefully considered the material on record. It is seen from the 46 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 details on record that this company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd., is
 engaged in product development and product design services
 while the assessee is a software development services provider.
 We find that, as submitted by the assessee, the segmental details
 are not given separately. Therefore, following the principle
 enunciated in the decision of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telecordia Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) that in the absence
 of segmental details/information a company cannot be taken into
 account for comparability analysis, we hold that this company i.e.
 Persistent Systems Ltd. ought to be omitted from the set of
 comparables for the year under consideration. It is ordered
 accordingly." 3.2.46 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. (xi) Quintegra Solutions Limited ("Quintegra"): (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.49 We have considered the arguments of both the parties and

also the material available on record. We are of the opinion that since

all the necessary facts for adjudication of this comparable are

available on record, there is no reason to remit this issue back to the

file of the lower authorities. We are of the view that the factual

position in the present matter is similar with decision of the

coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows: "12.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO
 inspite of the assessee's objections that this company is
 functionally different and also since there were peculiar economic
 circumstances in the form of acquisitions made during the year.
 The TPO rejected the assessee's objections, holding that this
 company qualifies all the filters applied. On the issue of
 acquisitions, the TPO rejected the assessee's objections observing
 that the assessee had not adduced any evidence to show that
 this event had any influence on the pricing or the margin earned.

 12.2 Before us, the assessee objected to the inclusion of this
 company in the list of comparables on the ground that it was
 functionally different and also that there were other factors for
 which this company cannot be considered as a comparable to the
 assessee in the case on hand who was a captive software service
 provider to its AEs. It is submitted that this company i.e.
 Quintegra Solutions Ltd. is engaged in product engineering
 services and its Annual Report states that it is engaged in
 proprietary software products and in research and development 49 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

activities which has resulted in creation of its own IPRs. In
support of its plea for exclusion of this company from the list of
comparables, the learned Authorised Representative placed
reliance on the decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in
the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment
Year 2008-09 where this company was excluded from the list of
comparables on the ground of functional differences from a
captive software service provider. 12.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative
supported the order of the TPO in including this company as a
comparable to the assessee. 12.4.1 We have heard the rival contentions and perused and
carefully considered the material on record; including the judicial
decision cited and placed reliance on by the assessee. We find
that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM
Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has
omitted this company i.e. Quintegra Solutions Ltd. from the list of
comparables since it is into product engineering services; is
engaged in proprietary software products, has substantial R&D
activity which has resulted in creation of IPRs and its own
intangible assets thereby making it functionally different from the
assessee in the case on hand is a captive software service
provider; as is the assessee in the case on hand. At paras18.3.1
to 18.3.3 of its order, the co-ordinate bench has held as under:-- 12.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench of
 this Tribunal (supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit
 this company from the list of comparables." 3.2.50 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO / TPO to exclude this comparable from the

list of comparables. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (xii) R System International Limited ("R System"): Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was

excluded by observing as follows: 3.2.55 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. (xiii) Softsol India Limited ("Softsol"): Thereafter, the Ld. Counsel took us though the financials and it was

submitted that the company develops intangibles and also that their

revenue recognition model was different from that of the assessee.

Additionally, without prejudice to the above arguments, the Ld.

Counsel submitted that the filter as adopted by the TPO of RPT<25%

was not a valid filter and for the same the assessee placed reliance on

the Bengaluru Bench's decision in the case of LSI Technologies India

Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO in ITA No. 1380/Bang/2010, order dated

13.05.2016. As in the case of some of the earlier comparables being

contested, it was fairly pointed out that though there is no finding by

the Ld. DRP on this comparable, the Bench could adjudicate the issue

all the same. Further, the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee also submitted 55 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

that the arguments regarding application of filters may be treated as

not pressed and prayed for adjudication of this comparable.

3.2.57 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative vehemently

argued for the comparable's inclusion and took support from the

TPO's order. In terms of the submission made by the Ld. Counsel for

assessee that he is not disputing the application of filters, the Ld. CIT

Departmental Representative had no objection to the adjudication of

this comparable by the Bench. 3.2.58 We have heard the rival submissions and also perused the

relevant material on record. We are of the opinion that since all the

relevant facts necessary for adjudication of this comparable are

available on record we can proceed to adjudicate this comparable. We

are of the view that the factual position in the present case is similar

to the decision of the coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No.

333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was retained by observing as

follows: Even the Profit and Loss Account to be found at page No. 1536
 also shows that other than the other income, the company is
 deriving income only from software exports. Even the Note 15 of
 the Notes on Account reads that there are no separate reportable
 segments. We do not find any material from the record that this
 company has actually been engaged in the activities like a)
 business of Software Products b) Software Development c)
 Training Services; and d) manufacture of vide range of products or
 that it provides end to end business solutions. 107. We therefore find it difficult that this company is functionally
 different from the assessee or that it is not a good comparable for
 want of any segmental information or related party information.
 We, therefore, find that this company has to be retained as a good
 comparable in the final list of comparables." 3.2.59 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we reject the arguments of the assessee and direct the

AO/TPO to include this company in the final list of comparables. 57 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (xiv) Tata Elxsi Limited ("Tata Elxsi"): (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.62 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed reliance

on the orders of the Ld. DRP and TPO. The Ld. CIT DR had no

objection to the adjudication of this comparable by the Bench.

3.2.63 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also

perused the relevant material on record. We are of the opinion that

since all the necessary facts for adjudication of this comparable are

available on record, we can adjudicate this issue. We are of the view

that the factual position in the present matter is similar with decision

of the coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. v ACIT in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows: As can be seen from the extracts of the Annual Report of this
 company produced before us, the facts pertaining to Tata
 Elxsi have not changed from Assessment Year 2007-08 to
 Assessment Year 2008-09. We, therefore, hold that this
 company is not to be considered for inclusion in the set of
 comparables in the case on hand. It is ordered accordingly.'
 13.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench of
 this Tribunal (supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to
 exclude this company from the list of comparables to the
 assessee." 3.2.64 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the list

of comparables. (xv) Thirdware Solution Limited ("Thirdware"): 14.3.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench
 (supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this
 company from the list of comparables." 3.2.68 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the list

of comparables. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

(xvi) Wipro Limited (Segmental) ["Wipro"]: (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.2.71 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also

perused the relevant material on record. We are of the view that the

factual position in the present matter is similar with decision of the

coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows: 15.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO
 inspite of the objections by the assessee to its inclusion in the list
 of comparables on several grounds like functional dis- similarity,
 brand value, size, turnover etc.

 15.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative of the
 assessee contended that this company namely, Wipro Ltd., is not
 functionally comparable to the assessee as it owns significant
 intangibles in the nature of customer related intangibles and
 technology related intangibles; has huge brand value, is a market
 leader in size and turnover which render it not functionally
 comparable to a captive provider of software development
 services. In support of its plea for exclusion of this company from
 the list of comparables, the learned Authorised Representative of
 the assessee placed reliance on the decision of the co-ordinate
 bench in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for
 Assessment Year 2008-09, wherein this company was held to be
 functionally different and dis-similar and not comparable to a
 captive provider of software development services. 66 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

15.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative
supported the order of the TPO in including this company in the
list of comparables to the assessee. 15.4.1 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully
considered the material on record. We find that the co-ordinate
bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions
Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has held that this
company is to be excluded from the list of comparables as it is
functionally different and dis-similar from a captive software
development service provider, as is in the case on hand. At para
12.4.1 and 12.4.2 of its order the co-ordinate bench in its order
(supra) has held as under:-- 15.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench
 (supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit this company
 from the list of comparables." 3.2.72 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate

Bench, we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of

comparables. 3.3.0 Now, we will deal with comparables which the assessee is

agitating for inclusion in the final set of comparables selected by the

TPO / DRP. SIP Technologies and Exports Limited ("SIP Technologies")

3.3.1 The first inclusion being prayed by the Assessee is of SIP

Technologies. The said comparable was rejected by the TPO whilst

holding that the said company has declining revenue. Before us, the 68 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that diminishing revenue has

to be seen for three consecutive years and since this company does

not have losses for three consecutive years, the said comparable

ought to be included. It was further submitted that the TPO himself

has not disputed the fact that SIP Technologies is functionally

comparable to the Assessee and the TPO has only rejected the said

comparable on the ground that the said company has diminishing

revenue. It was further submitted that turnover cannot be a criteria

for inclusion or exclusion of a comparable. 3.3.2 On specific query by the Bench, the Ld. CIT Departmental

Representative fairly accepted that in principle the criteria of checking

the financials of three year consecutive years has consistently been

followed by both the Department as well as the assessees over the

years. On merits she relied on the orders of the lower authorities.

3.3.3 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also

perused the relevant material on record. We are of the view that the

factual position in the present case is similar to the decision of

coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks

India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this

comparable was included by observing as follows: 119. While following the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in the case of Chryscapital Investment Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd.
this view has further been affirmed by another co-ordinate bench
of this ITAT in case of Vestergaard Asia (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2017]
88 taxmann.com 313 (Delhi-Trib.) wherein the court has observed
that:- In our view, such a minor difference in revenue cannot be
 taken to mean that the company is undergoing abnormal
 circumstances and should be rejected. Even otherwise, if the
 functional similarity of the company with the assessee is
 accepted, the same should not be rejected simply because of
 difference in revenue. Our view is supported by the decision
 of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Chryscapital 72 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 Investment Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra), in which it was
 observed: In light of the above, we direct the TPO to include this
 company in the list of comparables." 120. With regards to Revenue's stand that SIP technologies need
to be rejected on the ground that it suffered losses, it is submitted
on behalf of the assessee that for the filter of persistent losses to
come into play it should be shown that the comparable under
dispute has incurred losses for three preceding years including
the assessment year in question. Reliance in this regard is placed
on the Pune ITAT order in case of Bobst India (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2015] 63 taxmann.com (Pune-Trib.) wherein the bench observed
that a company can be rejected as persistent loss maker only if it
has incurred losses for more than 3 years. In the present case in
the immediate preceding year the comparable company has
showed operating profit of 13.90%, thus, as the company has not 73 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 suffered losses and its functionality has not been challenged by
 the TPO, it becomes clear that there is no valid ground to exclude
 this company as comparable. 121. On a careful consideration of the factual and legal position,
 we find that this company is a valid comparable to the assessee
 and, therefore, has to be included in the final set of comparables."

3.3.4 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate
Bench, we direct the AO / TPO to include this company in the list of
comparables. (ii) PSI Data System Ltd. ("PSI Data"): Uncontrolled comparable companies operate under uncontrolled

conditions bearing certain risks during the course of its operations.

Therefore, such comparable uncontrolled companies earn a risk

premium which is not earned by a captive software development

provider similar to the assessee which is a risk averse and, therefore, 75 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

the profits of the captive unit would be less than risk taking

companies and hence, an adjustment in this regard is required. He

placed reliance on the decision of the coordinate Bench in Motorola

Solutions India (P.) Ltd's case, Intellinet Technologies India (P.) Ltd.

vs. ITO reported in [2012] 22 taxmann.com 28/53 SOT 92 (Bang.)

(URO) and Bearing Point Business Consulting (P.) Ltd. vs. Dy.

CIT reported in [2013] 33 taxmann.com 92/57 SOT 244 (Bang. -

Trib.) in support of assessee's claim for risk adjustment.

3.4.2 The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other

hand, supported the orders of the authorities below and vehemently

argued that since contemporaneous data was not produced by the

assessee to substantiate its claim of risk adjustment the claim has

been correctly rejected. 3.4.3 We have considered the submissions of the parties and also

perused the relevant material on record. On overall factual matrix of

the issues and as last and final opportunity and in the interest of

justice, it is our considered opinion that the issues raised in Ground

Nos. 1.4 and 1.5 require reconsideration and re-examination and are

thus restored to the file of AO/TPO for passing appropriate orders in

accordance with law after giving proper opportunity to the assessee. It

is ordered accordingly. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.5.0 Now we will deal with grounds relating to SIM Card
Assembly Segment (Ground Nos. 2 to 2.8 and additional ground/s No.
2.9 and 2.10). 3.5.1 Before us the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has submitted
that his pleadings can be summarized on the following legal points: Further, contemporaneous data and transfer pricing analysis by

taking foreign AE as the tested party have been produced before us

vide a separate application to file additional evidence.

3.5.3 It is submitted before us that if the legal submissions

regarding the first three arguments are accepted then there would be

no necessity to adjudicate the alternative arguments.

3.5.4 The first issue raised by the Ld. Counsel for the assessee is

regarding restricting the transfer pricing adjustment to the value of

the international transaction. Our attention was drawn to Pages 32,

46, 57 and 288 of the Paper book to show that during the relevant

period the total operating expenses of Rs. 63,79,13,808/- were

incurred on the SIM Card Segment. Out of the total operating

expenses, a sum of Rs. 41,04,24,653/- related to raw materials,

stores and spares consumes and out of this a sum of Rs.

7,07,33,702/- pertained to indigenous purchase (domestic

transaction). It was argued before us that the TPO, while determining

the arm's length price of this transaction, has erroneously taken the

total operating expenses at the entity level, which is not permissible.

Reliance was placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay High

Court in the case of CIT vs. Alstom Projects India Ltd. reported in 78 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

[2017] 394 ITR 141 (Bombay) and of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court

in the case of CIT v. Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (ITA No.11 of 2015), judgment

dated 09.09.2015. He further pointed out that the Ld. Dispute

Resolution Panel has decided this issue in favour of Assessee in

Assessment Year 2014-15 whilst directing the TPO to allow

proportionate adjustment and restricting the transfer pricing

adjustment to related party international transactions.

3.5.5 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed heavy

reliance on the order of the TPO / DRP. 3.5.6 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and

perused the relevant material on record. We notice that the TPO,

while benchmarking this transaction (SIM Card Assembly Segment),

has taken the value of transaction at entity level rather than

restricting the exercise of benchmarking to the value of international

transaction between the Associated Enterprises and also included the

value of indigenous purchases from the local parties. We are of the

considered opinion that the mandate of Chapter X of the Act is very

clear and only the international transactions between related parties

are to be considered for the purposes of benchmarking. Our view is

further fortified by the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT

vs. Alstom Projects India Ltd reported in [2017] 394 ITR 141

(Bombay), wherein it is held as follows : 3. The impugned order of the Tribunal upheld the Respondent-
assessee's contention that the transfer pricing adjustment has to
be made only in respect of transaction entered into by the
Respondent-assessee with its Associated Enterprises. 4. The grievance of the Revenue is that in the absence of
segmental accounts being maintained by the Respondent-
assessee, transfer pricing adjustment had to be done at entity
level. We specifically asked Mr. Chhotaray, learned Counsel for
the appellant whether any such submission was advanced by the
Revenue before the Tribunal. At this, he fairly states that no such
submission was made on behalf of the Revenue. Thus we fail to
understand how the present question arises from the impugned
order of the Tribunal. 5. Be that as it may, Mr. Chhotaray, learned Counsel for the
Revenue submits that identical question as raised herein had
been admitted by this Court and in particular invited our attention
to the following orders passed at the stage of admission:-- 6. In both the above appeals we find that the question admitted
was with regard to transfer pricing adjustment being done at the
entity level and not restricted only to the transactions with
Associated Enterprises. However, both the appeals were admitted
without the Court having had benefit of submissions on behalf of
the Respondent-assessee. 7. Thereafter this Court consequent to the above two orders had
occasion to consider the issue of transfer
pricing adjustments being done in respect of all transactions
(entity level) or only in respect of transaction entered into with
Associated Enterprises in the following cases:-- In all above appeals, this Court after hearing both sides upheld
the view of the Tribunal that the transfer pricing adjustment has
to be done only in respect of International Transactions with
Associated Enterprises and not at an entity level. It may be
pointed out that during the course of all the above appeals, the
fact that two appeals had been admitted on the above issue were
not pointed out. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) 8. Nevertheless, the distinction sought to be made by the Revenue
is that the issue of non keeping of segmental accounts by the
Assessee was not for consideration in the above cases which
were dismissed, as in this case. 9. This very issue/question as raised herein was raised by the
Revenue in Petro Araldite (P.) Ltd. (supra). The question raised
therein was as under:-- At the above hearing, the Revenue accepted that even in the
absence of segmental accounts, the adjustment has to be done
only in respect of the international transactions with Associated
Enterprises. This is so recorded in the order dated 24 November
2015. Therefore, on the above ground itself, the question as
proposed does not give rise to any substantial question of law. 10. We may once more note that the Income Tax Department
within the jurisdiction of this Court must adopt a consistent view
on issues of law. In this case, we find that the Revenue urges the
absence of segmental accounts would warrant entity
wise adjustment, when the Revenue had itself in Petro Araldite
(P.) Ltd. (supra) did not canvas the point, as even according to it 82 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

the issue stood covered by the earlier orders of this Court in
favour of the Assessee. The Revenue must apply the law equally
to all and cannot take inconsistent position in law (de hors the
facts) to apply different standards to different assessee. The
administration of the tax laws should not degenerate into an
arbitrary and inconsistent application of law dependent upon the
Assessee concerned. 11. We also note that the Delhi High Court in CIT v. Keihin
Panalfa Ltd. (ITA No.11 of 2015) decided on 9th September, 2015
has while dealing with transfer pricing adjustment in the absence
of segmental accounts held that adjustments have to be restricted
only to transactions with Associated Enterprises. It further held
that where separate accounts are not available,
then proportionate adjustments to be made only in respect of the
international transactions with Associated Enterprises. 12. We are in respectful agreement with the view of the Delhi High
Court in Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (supra). One must not lose sight of the
fact that the transfer pricing adjustment is done under Chapter X
of the Act . The mandate therein is only to redetermine the
consideration received or given to arrive at income arising from for
International Transactions with Associated Enterprises. This is
particularly so as in respect of transaction with non Associated
Enterprises, Chapter X of the Act is not triggered to
make adjustment to considerations received or paid unless they
are Specified Domestic Transactions. The transaction with non-
Associated Enterprises are presumed to be at arms length as
there is no relationship which is likely to influence the price. If the
contention of the Revenue is accepted, it would lead to artificial 83 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 increase in the profits of transactions entered into with non
 Associated Enterprises by applying the margin at entity level
 which is not the object of Chapter X of the Act . Absence of
 segmental accounting is not an insurmountable issue,
 as proportionate basis could be adopted as done by the Delhi
 High Court in Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (supra). 13. In the above view, no substantial question of law arises.
 Therefore, we do not entertain the present appeal."

3.5.7 After considering the above and respectfully following the

judgments of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and the Hon'ble Delhi

High Court, we hold that the proportionate adjustment is to be

allowed to the assessee and the exercise of benchmarking is to be

restricted to the value of international transaction. On the overall

factual matrix, we restore this issue to the file of AO/TPO to re-

compute and benchmark this transaction, after giving sufficient

opportunity of hearing to the assessee. 3.6.0 The second issue argued by the Ld. Counsel for the

assessee is regarding allowability of capacity adjustment. During the

course of assessment, TPO has dealt with the issue of allowability of

capacity adjustment whilst observing as follows: 3.6.1 While dealing with the objections filed by the assessee

regarding allowability of capacity adjustment, the Ld. DRP has

observed as follows: 3.6.2 Before us, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has vehemently

argued that, undisputedly, assessee was bearing the risk of idle

capacity and this being one of the initial years of operation of its

business, capacity adjustment ought to have been granted in terms of

Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii) read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Income Tax Rules, 86 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

1962 ('Rules'). On the issue of allowability and the manner of

computing the capacity adjustment, he placed heavy reliance on the

following judicial precedents: v. Saxo India (P.) Ltd. v Asstt. CIT [2016] 67 taxmann.com
 155 (Delhi - Trib.)
 vi. Molex India Tooling (P.) Ltd. vs DCIT [2016] 75
 taxmann.com 303 (Bangalore - Trib.)
 vii. HCL Technologies BPO Services Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT [2015] 60
 taxmann.com 186/69 SOT 571 (Delhi)
 viii. Global Turbine Services Inc. v. ADIT (International
 Taxation) [2013] 38 taxmann.com 220 (Delhi)
 ix. Dy. CIT v. Innodata Isogen India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No.
 5390 (Delhi) of 2010]
 x. Google India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 1170 (Bang.) of 2011]
 xi. Calsonic Kansel Motherson Products Ltd. vs DCIT [2016]
 72 taxmann.com 109 (Delhi - Trib.)
 xii. Fiat India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 1848 (Mum.) of 2009]
 xiii. Global Vantedge (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2010] 37 SOT 1
 (Delhi). (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 xiv. Tasty Bite Eatables Ltd. vs ACIT [2015] 59 taxmann.com
 437 (Pune - Trib.)

3.6.3 Further, the Ld. Counsel fairly accepted out that the issue

of allowability of capacity adjustment was decided against the

assessee in earlier assessment year by the co-ordinate Bench of this

Tribunal vide order dated 15.03.2013. He submitted that though an

appeal was filed challenging the said order dated 15.03.2013 passed

by the Tribunal, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, vide order dated

27.08.2014, dismissed the appeal of the Assessee as being barred by

limitation, but with a liberty to agitate this issue before the Tribunal

in subsequent years and to suitably represent the relevant facts and

legal position before the Tribunal in accordance with law. He further

tried to distinguish the earlier decision of the coordinate Bench whilst

arguing that the Tribunal in its earlier decision had per se not

considered the issue of allowability of capacity adjustment and had

refused to interfere with the findings of lower authorities on this issue

as the relevant data was not available on record. He submitted that

the relevant data is now available on record. To buttress his

arguments, he placed heavy reliance on a recent decision of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Canara Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya Setty &

Anr. Reported in 2018 SCC OnLine SC 427, wherein exceptions to the 88 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

principle of res judicata have been explained. He argued that since

now issue of allowability and computation of capacity adjustment has

been settled by a higher forum, i.e., the Bombay High, whilst

interpreting the provisions of Rule 10B (1)(e) read with Rule

10B(2)/(3) of the Rules, a legally sustainable claim of Assessee cannot

be rejected. 3.6.4 The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other

hand, supported the orders of the authorities below and argued that

the decision of this Tribunal rejecting the claim of capacity

adjustment be followed. 3.6.5 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also

perused the relevant material on record. We find force in the

submissions of the Ld. Counsel for the assessee that in terms of the

liberty granted by the Hon'ble High Court in assessee's own case and

in view of the recent decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT vs.

Petro Araldite Pvt. Ltd. reported in [2018] 93 taxmann.com 438

(Bombay)/[2018] 256 Taxman 16 (Bombay), wherein it is held that

capacity adjustment is allowable in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii) read

with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules, the earlier decision of coordinate

Bench in Assessee's own case would no act as a impediment to allow

capacity adjustment for the relevant period. We notice that Ld.

Counsel for the assessee has placed on record revised working with 89 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

respect to computation of capacity adjustment in terms of the recent

decision of coordinate Benches of the Tribunal and the Hon'ble High

Court and, therefore, the earlier decision of Tribunal is

distinguishable on this count itself. We are of the opinion that if

correct and reliable data is available, then capacity adjustment

deserves to be allowed in terms of Rule 10B of the Rules. Our view is

further fortified by the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Canara

Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya Setty & Anr. Reported in 2018 SCC OnLine

SC 427, wherein exceptions to the principle of res judicata have been

explained, by observing as follows: Obviously, a Civil Court cannot send a person to jail for an
offence committed under the Indian Penal Code . If it does so,
such a judgment would not bind a Magistrate and/or
Sessions Court in a subsequent proceeding between the
same parties, where the Magistrate sentences the same
person for the same offence under the Penal Code. Equally, a
Civil Court cannot decide a suit between a landlord and a
tenant arising out of the rights claimed under a Rent Act ,
where the Rent Act clothes a special Court with jurisdiction
to decide such suits. As an example, under Section 28 of the
Bombay Rent Act, 1947, the Small Causes Court has
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and decide proceedings
between a landlord and a tenant in respect of rights which
arise out of the Bombay Rent Act, and no other Court has
jurisdiction to embark upon the same. In this case, even 91 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 though the Civil Court, in the absence of the statutory bar
 created by the Rent Act , would have jurisdiction to decide
 such suits, it is the statutory bar created by the Rent Act that
 must be given effect to as a matter of public policy.
 (See, Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v. Navrang Studios , (1981) 1
 SCC 523 : (1981) 2 SCR 466 at 482). An erroneous decision
 clothing the Civil Court with jurisdiction to embark upon a
 suit filed by a landlord against a tenant, in respect of rights
 claimed under the Bombay Rent Act, would, therefore, not
 operate as res judicata in a subsequent suit filed before the
 Small Causes Court between the same parties in respect of
 the same matter directly and substantially in issue in the
 former suit. (ii) An issue of law which arises between the same parties in a
 subsequent suit or proceeding is not res judicata if, by an
 erroneous decision given on a statutory prohibition in the
 former suit or proceeding, the statutory prohibition is not
 given effect to. This is despite the fact that the matter in
 issue between the parties may be the same as that directly
 and substantially in issue in the previous suit or proceeding.
 This is for the reason that in such cases, the rights of the
 parties are not the only matter for consideration (as is the
 case of an erroneous interpretation of a statute inter parties),
 as the public policy contained in the statutory prohibition
 cannot be set at naught. This is for the same reason as that
 contained in matters which pertain to issues of law that
 raise jurisdictional questions. We have seen how, in Natraj
 Studios (supra), it is the public policy of the statutory 92 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 prohibition contained in Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act
 that has to be given effect to. Likewise, the public policy
 contained in other statutory prohibitions, which need not
 necessarily go to jurisdiction of a Court, must equally be
 given effect to, as otherwise special principles of law are
 fastened upon parties when special considerations relating
 to public policy mandate that this cannot be done. (iii) Another exception to this general rule follows from the
 matter in issue being an issue of law different from that in
 the previous suit or proceeding. This can happen when the
 issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is based on
 different facts from the matter directly and substantially in
 issue in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law
 is altered by a competent authority since the earlier decision,
 the matter in issue in the subsequent suit or proceeding is
 not the same as in the previous suit or proceeding, because
 the law to be interpreted is different." 3.6.6 On the issue of allowability of capacity adjustment, we are

of the considered view that higher capacity utilization would lead to

higher profitability as fixed costs would be spread over in a larger

number of units manufactured. The difference in capacity utilization

would materially affect the profit margin. Thus, if there is a difference

in the level of capacity utilization of the assessee and the level

of capacity utilization of the comparable, then adjustment would be

required to be made to the profit margin of the comparable on 93 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

account of difference in capacity utilization in terms of Rule 10B

(1)(e)(iii) read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules. Our view is fortified

by the recent decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs. Petro Araldite Pvt. Ltd. reported in [2018] 93 taxmann.com

438 (Bombay)/[2018] 256 Taxman 16 (Bombay). After considering

plethora of case laws on the issue of allowability of capacity

adjustment, the coordinate Bench of the Delhi Tribunal in HCL

Technologies BPO Services Ltd. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 172 TTJ 1

(Delhi - Trib.), observed as follows : 30. Reliance in this regard is placed on the decision of Pune Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of Amdocs Business Services (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 54 SOT 46 (URO)/26 taxmann.com
120 wherein, the Tribunal allowed economic adjustment on
account of under capacity utilization holding that the appellant
was in start up phase during the assessment year consideration.
The relevant extract of the decision is reproduced as under: and, Skoda, Auto India (P.) Ltd. v. ACIT 122 TT J 699. In our
 view, the matter requiring factual appreciation, the same is
 remanded back to the file of the Assessing Officer, who shall
 consider the propositions put forth by the assessee and
 allow appropriate economic adjustments on a reasonable
 basis." 31. On the same lines, Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case
of Global Turbine Services Inc. v. ADIT (International 95 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

Taxation) [2013] 38 taxmann.com 220 allowed economic
adjustment on-account of under capacity utilization considering
the fact that the year under consideration was the first full year of
operation of the appellant. Relevant extract of the decision reads
as under: 32. Reliance in this regard is placed on the following observation
of the Hon'ble Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case
of ACIT v. Fiat India (P .) Ltd. [IT Appeal no 1848 (Mum) of 2009): (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) 33. Further, the Hon'ble Pune Bench of the Tribunal in the case
of Brintons Carpets Asia (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2011] 46 SOT 289
(URO)/12 taxmann.com 148 while allowing adjustment for idle
capacity caused due to labour unrest/strike and relying upon the
above observation of the Mumbai Tribunal held as follows: 34. Also, in the case of E.I. Dupont India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012]
49 SOT 123/[2011] 16 taxmann.com 352 (Delhi), the Hon'ble Delhi
Bench of the Tribunal, while allowing the adjustment for capacity
utilization held that: 36. Further, the Hon'ble Delhi' Bench of the Tribunal in the case
of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 53 SOT 151/21
taxmann.com 257 held as under: 37. Hon'ble Delhi High Court, in the appeal preferred by the
revenue in the case of Transwitch India (P.)
Ltd. (supra), vide order dated 17.07.2013, upheld the adjustment
claimed by the assessee on account of capacity utilization.
Reliance in this regard is also placed on the recent decision of
Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Dy. CIT v. Panasonic
AVC Networks India Co. Ltd. [2014] 63 SOT 121 (URO)/42
taxmann.com 420, wherein the Hon'ble Bench has held that
capacity underutilization is an important factor affecting net profit
margin as lower capacity utilization results in higher per unit
costs which in turn results in lower profits. The relevant finding of
the decision reads as under: 38. In view of the aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that
appropriate adjustment for idle capacity is required to be made
while computing the operating margin of the appellant. 39. We have heard rival submissions and perused the material
placed on record. We find that there is force in the argument of Ld.
Counsel for the assessee that while calculating operating cost, the
abnormal cost incurred on account of start-up should be excluded.
Following the same parity of reasoning in the cases cited by him
and keeping in view that the judgement of ITAT co-ordinate Bench
in the case of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. (supra ) affirmed by
Hon'ble Delhi High Court. Therefore, respectfully following the
decision of Hon'ble High Court, we direct TPO/A.O. to adjust
operating cost by excluding abnormal cost incurred on account of 101 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 start-up company like salary, rent and depreciation. This matter is
 restored to the file of TPO/A.O. to re-determine the operating cost
 on the above lines to arrive at operating profit."

3.6.7 Respectfully following the judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay

High Court and the decision/s of the coordinate benches of Tribunal

as aforementioned, we are of the considered opinion that the Assessee

is entitled to the benefit of capacity adjustment whilst benchmarking

the international transaction of SIM Card Assembly.

3.6.8 Another linked issue is regarding computation of capacity

adjustment. In our opinion, the methodology adopted by TPO/DRP in

computing 'capacity adjustment' whilst only considering the

depreciation, is erroneous. Recently, the issue of computation of

capacity adjustment has been considered by the coordinate Bench of

the Delhi Tribunal in DCIT vs. Claas India (P) Ltd reported in [2015]

62 taxmann.com 173 (Delhi - Trib.) by observing as follows: (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii)
 arising in comparable uncontrolled transactions is
 adjusted to take into account the differences, if any,
 between the international transaction and the
 comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between
 the enterprises entering into such transactions,
 which could materially affect the amount of net
 profit margin in the open market ; (iv) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise and
 referred to in sub-clause (i) is established to be the
 same as the net profit margin referred to in sub-
 clause (iii) ; (v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken
 into account to arrive at an arm's length price in
 relation to the international transaction." 9.2 Sub-clause (i) in the process of determination of the ALP under
the TNMM talks of the computation of net operating profit margin
realized by the assessee from an international transaction. Sub-
clause (ii) is the computation of net operating profit margin
realized by an unrelated enterprise from a comparable
uncontrolled transaction. This refers to determining the operating
profit margin of comparables with the same base as that of the
assessee. Sub-clause (iii) provides that the net profit margin
realized by a comparable company, determined as per sub-clause (ii) above, 'is adjusted to take into account the differences, if any,
between the international transaction and the comparable
uncontrolled transactions, which could materially affect the
amount of net profit margin in the open market.' It is this adjusted
net profit margin of the unrelated transactions or of the
comparable companies, as determined under sub-clause (iii),
which is used for the purposes of making comparison with the net
profit margin realized by the assessee from its international
transaction as per sub-clause (i). 9.3 Sub-rule (2) of Rule 10B provides that the comparability of an
international transaction with an uncontrolled transaction shall be 104 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

judged with reference to certain factors which have been
enumerated therein. Rule 10B(3) states that an uncontrolled
transaction shall be comparable to an international transaction, if
either there are no differences between the two or a 'reasonably
accurate adjustment can be made to eliminate the material effects
of such differences.' When we read sub-clauses (ii) & (iii) of Rule
10B(1)(e) in juxtaposition to sub-rules (2) & (3) of rule 10B, the
position which emerges is that the net operating profit margin of
comparable companies calls for adjustment in such a manner so
as to bring both the international transaction and comparable
cases at the same pedestal. In other words, if there are no
differences in these two, then the average of the net operating
profit margin of the comparable companies becomes a benchmark.
However, in case there are some differences between the
comparables and the assessee, then the effect of such differences
should be ironed out by making suitable adjustment to the
operating profit margin of comparables. That is the way for
bringing both the transactions, namely, the international
transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, on the
same platform for making a meaningful and effective comparison.
The above analysis overtly transpires that the law provides for
adjusting the profit margin of comparables on account of the
material differences between the international transaction of the
assessee and comparable uncontrolled transactions. It is not the
other way around to adjust the profit margin of the assessee. In
other words, the net operating profit margin realized by the
assessee from its international transaction is to be computed as
such, without adjusting it on account of differences with the
comparable uncontrolled transactions. The adjustment, if any, is
required to be made only in the profit margins of the comparables.
9.4 Reverting to the facts of the instant case, we find that the
authorities below have adjusted the operating costs of the
assessee in allowing the capacity adjustment. As against that, the
correct course of action provided under the law is to adjust the
operating costs of the comparable and their resultant operating
profit. There is hardly need to accentuate that there can be no
estoppel against the law. Once the law enjoins for doing a 105 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

particular thing in a particular manner alone, it is not open to
anyone to adopt a contrary or different approach. As the
authorities below have adopted a course of action in allowing
adjustment, which is not in consonance with law, we cannot
approve the same. The impugned order is set aside and the
matter is restored to the file of the TPO/AO for giving effect to the
amount of idle capacity adjustment in the operating profit of the
comparables and not the assessee. ii. How to compute capacity utilization adjustment under TNMM:
10.1 Under the TNMM, the ALP of an international transaction is
determined by computing and comparing the percentage of
operating profit margin realized by the assessee with that of the
comparables. We have noticed above that the difference in
the capacity utilizations is an important factor, which needs to be
adjusted. No mechanism has been given under the Act or the rules
for computing the amount of capacity utilization adjustment.
10.2 On an overall understanding, we feel that under the TNMM,
the first step in granting capacity utilization adjustment is to
ascertain the percentage of capacity utilization by the assessee
and comparables. There can be no difficulty in working out these
percentages. The second step is to give effect (positive or negative)
to the difference in the percentage of capacity utilizations of the
assessee vis-à-vis comparables, one by one, in the operating profit
of comparables by adjusting their respective operating costs.
Operating costs can be either fixed or variable or semi-variable.
One needs to split semi-variable costs into the fixed part and
variable part. In so far as the variable costs and the variable part
of the semi-variable costs are concerned, these remain unaffected
due to any under or over utilization of capacity. Accordingly, such
variable operating costs remain unchanged. The adjustment is
called for only in respect of the fixed operating costs and fixed
part of semi-variable costs. Such costs are scaled up or down by
considering the percentage of capacity utilization by the assessee
and such comparable. It can be illustrated with the help of a
simple example. Suppose the fixed costs incurred by a comparable
(say, A) are Rs. 100 and it has capacity utilization of 50% as 106 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

against the capacity utilization of 25% by the assessee. The above
percentages show that the assessee has incurred full fixed costs
with 25% of the utilization of its capacity, as against A incurring
full fixed costs with 50% of its capacity utilization. This divulges
that the assessee has incurred relatively more fixed costs and A
has incurred lower costs. In order to make an effective
comparison, there arises a need to obliterate the effect of this
difference in capacity utilizations. It can be done by
proportionately scaling up the fixed costs incurred by A so as to
make it fully comparable with the assessee. This we can do by
increasing the fixed costs of A to Rs. 200 (Rs. 100 into 50/25) as
against the actually incurred fixed costs by it at Rs. 100. When
we compute operating profit of A by substituting the fixed costs at
Rs. 200 with the actually incurred at Rs. 100, it would mean that
the fixed costs incurred by the assessee and A are at the
same capacity utilization. There can be converse situation as well.
Suppose the fixed costs incurred by a comparable (say, B) are Rs.
100 and it has capacity utilization of 25% as against
the capacity utilization of 50% by the assessee. The above
percentages show that the assessee has incurred full fixed costs
at 50% of the utilization of its capacity, as against B incurring full
fixed costs at 25% of the capacity utilization. This deciphers that
the assessee has incurred relatively lower fixed costs and B has
incurred higher costs. This difference in capacityutilizations can
be eliminated by proportionately scaling down the fixed costs
incurred by B so as to make it fully comparable. This we can do
by reducing the fixed costs of B to Rs. 50 (Rs.100 into 25/50) as
against the actually incurred fixed cost by it at Rs.100. When we
compute operating profit of B by substituting the fixed costs at Rs.
50 with the actually incurred at Rs. 100, it would mean that the
fixed costs incurred by the assessee and B are at the
same capacity utilization level. 10.3 Turning to the facts of the instant case, we find that both the
TPO as well as the ld. CIT(A) have proceeded on a wrong premise
not only by allowing capacity utilization adjustment in the
assessee's profit, which is contrary to the legal position as
discussed above, but also by considering all the comparables as 107 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

 one unit with the average percentage of their
 respective capacity utilizations. It is further observed that in the
 calculation of such capacity utilization adjustment, the ld. CIT (A)
 has considered four companies as comparable, which view has
 been modified by us supra inasmuch as we have held that M/s
 Eicher Motors and M/s. Force Motors are incomparable. Naturally,
 they would also go out of reckoning in the computation of
 idle capacity utilization adjustment. In the absence of the
 availability of financials of all the comparable companies, it is not
 possible at our end to work out the amount of capacity adjustment
 in the manner discussed above. Ergo, we set aside the impugned
 order and direct the TPO/AO to work out the amount
 of capacity utilization adjustment afresh in terms of our above
 observations. Needless to say, the assessee will be allowed a
 reasonable opportunity of hearing in such fresh proceedings."

3.6.9 Respectfully following the decision of the coordinate bench

of the Tribunal in DCIT vs. Claas India (P) Ltd. reported in [2015] 62

taxmann.com 173 (Delhi - Trib.), we are of the opinion that the issue

of computation of capacity adjustment requires reconsideration and is

thus, restored to file of AO/TPO for re-computation in light of our

observations in the preceding paragraph, after granting sufficient

opportunity of hearing to the assessee. 3.7.0 The next issue is regarding allowability of working capacity

adjustment. Before us, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has

vehemently argued that the TPO/Ld. DRP has erred in not allowing

working capital adjustment in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii) read with 108 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

Rule 10B(2)/ (3) of the Rules. He pointed out that during the relevant

period, working capital adjustment has been granted for Software

Development Segment, however, the same has not been granted for

the SIM Card Assembly Segment. Placing reliance on the recent

decision of the coordinate Bench of the Delhi Tribunal in Agilent

Technologies (International) (P) Ltd. vs. ITO reported in [2018] 91

taxmann.com 59 (Delhi - Trib.), he submitted that the claim of

working capital adjustment is to be allowed for service industry also.

He argued that such an adjustment is restricted to inventory, trade

receivables and trade payables. It was submitted that if a company

carries high trade receivables, it would mean that it is allowing its

customers relatively longer period to pay their dues, which will result

into higher interest cost and the resultant low net profit. Similarly, by

carrying high trade payables, a company benefits from a relatively

longer period available to it for paying back the dues to its suppliers,

which reduces the interest cost and increases profits. In order to

neutralize the differences on account of carrying high or low

inventory, trade payables and trade receivables, as the case may be, it

becomes eminent to allow working capital adjustment so as to bring

the case of the assessee at par with the other functionally comparable

entities. (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

3.7.1 On the other hand, the Ld. CIT Departmental

Representative placed heavy reliance on the order of lower authorities.

3.7.2 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and

perused the relevant material on record. We are of the opinion that

once the TPO/Ld. DRP has principally allowed the claim of working

capital adjustment with respect to Software Development Segment

than there is no occasion to disallow similar claim for SIM Card

Assembly Segment. Now there are various guidelines and factors that

have been laid down to work out the working capital adjustment and

accordingly, we direct the assessee to provide the detailed working of

the working capital adjustment to the TPO and he is directed to verify

the correctness of the amount and the working capital adjustment as

given by the assessee and allow the same in accordance with settled

principles. Thus, with this direction, this issue is treated as allowed

for statistical purposes. 3.8.0 Having considered the main arguments of the assessee

regarding allowability of proportionate adjustment, capacity

adjustment and working capital adjustment and allowing the same for

statistical purpose, while restoring them to the file of AO/TPO for

computation, we are not inclined to adjudicate on the other

alternative legal issues regarding admissibility of internal comparable

and taking foreign AE as the tested party. The assessee is, however, 110 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

at liberty to raise such issues before the lower authorities, should the

need arise. 3.9.0 Ground No. 6 of the appeal dealing with levy of interest

under section 234B of the Act, is disposed off as being mandatory and

consequential. 3.10.0 Ground No. 7 of the appeal deals with corporate tax issue

regarding not granting full credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/-

paid by the Assessee and also short credit of tax deducted at source

of Rs.15,01,872/- on the income of the appellant. The Ld. Counsel for

the assessee has prayed that this issue may be restored to the file of

the AO for verification. Per contra, the Ld. CIT Departmental

Representative has fairly conceded that she has no objection with

verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct the AO to

verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full

credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and

also short credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-.

4.0 In the final result, the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for

statistical purposes in terms of our above observations. 111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)

Order pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018

 Sd/- Sd/-