SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is the Judiciary still Independent? 
DATE: 2024-04-10
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1c0kxgp/is_the_judiciary_still_independent/

--- POST TEXT ---

Well, I was reading about Kejriwal Case and found out about this information, digging deeper into the case threw light on different Justices in High Court and Supreme Court and how they act against Politicians affiliated with different parties. 

Justice Swarna Kanta Sharma refused Kejriwal's bail by saying that ED has enough evidence against him, though they haven't found any money trail leading to Kejriwal's bank account and it's just witness statement (source: SC when it bailed Sanjay Singh). 

But Dilip Ray has Property worth crores and same Justice SK Sharma bailed him and allowed him to take part him election because his "Right to Take part in Political Activity" will be threatened if he wasn't bailed out. The case against him was being run by CBI and interestingly, the Judge on his case changed soon after he switched parties to BJP. 

Same with Supreme Court Judges, all AAP cases have gone to either Justice Sanjeev Khanna or Justice Bela Trivedi, who cancelled all Bail orders, until due to Scheduling conflicts and interference by Justice Dipankar Dutta, Sanjay Singh got bailed out, and SC said that ED couldn't link him and the Liquor Scam. 

My main problem is how can the same court give different judgement, do the judges follow law or their own (and their party's) interest? Sanjay Singh filed for Bail multiple times, and it got rejected, until so called "impartial" judge took up the case and granted him bail. 

Remember the incident with Rahul Gandhi where he had to lose his seat because of Defamation case? The SC stayed the lower court order but why he was given the maximum punishment for a political speech? So that he can lose his constituency? Why the SC didn't talk about the local court judge (who was arbitrarily sus). Not talking about Kolkata HC judge who gave anti TMC orders and joined BJP 1 day after his term was over. 

Is the judiciary really independent? Are we losing the last pillar of democracy. 

PS: Saw some videos of Justice Swarna Kanta Sharma where she stopped using the word India and started using the word Bharat (after the whole INDI Alliance fiasco), her talking about why being a housewife is better as wives of Hindu kings were the same (Hindu traditions are always right stuff) and other RW ideas. I don't understand why she is in a sus Conference anyways, isn't she a Judge in HC?