“These apps not only auction prominent Muslim women on a public platform, but are also attempts to sexualise and dehumanise the larger community” the Delhi High Court Women’s Lawyers Association said referring to the Bulli Bai and Sulli Deals apps in their letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India (CJI).

The association of 150 lawyers urged the CJI and other judges to issue guidelines to prevent such an incident from reoccurring, supervise the investigation undertaken by the Mumbai police, ensure a time-bound investigation, and so on, while also flagging the slowness of police action.

“We believe that the ‘Bulli deals’ app happened because no one was punished for Sulli Deals. Although FIRs had been previously registered in the matter of Sulli Deals, no one was arrested and the investigation has been a non-starter in the same,” the letter read.

The apps that were developed and hosted on GitHub before being taken down, listed Muslim women in a fake auction by using their photographs without their knowledge. At least five people have reportedly been arrested last week by the Mumbai and Delhi police in connection with the two cases.

The signatories of the letter include prominent lawyers like Vrinda Bhandari and Geeta Luthra. The CJI holds the highest legal office in the country and oversees the functioning of the Supreme Court as well.

Asking that the letter be considered as a ‘letter petition’, the following demands have been put forth by the association:

Swati Maliwal, the chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Women wrote to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell on January 3, flagging inaction on the matter and asked him to give the commission an update on the status of the cases. Earlier, Gurjit Singh Aujla, a Congress MP, had also written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking punishment for the creators of Bulli Bai, and in August, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi had written to IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw about the Sulli Deals app.

Four FIRs have been filed so far by the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Mumbai, and Delhi police, based on complaints by victims against the creators of the app.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event