The Ministry of Finance addressed a set of Lok Sabha queries regarding the ‘New PAN (Primary Account Numbers) Card’ project, referring to the PAN 2.0 project launched by the government last month, on December 16, 2024.

The government stated, “The PAN 2.0 Project focuses on process simplification enhancing the overall experience for taxpayers by ensuring faster service delivery, effective grievance redressal, and better protection of sensitive data.”

This came as response to the following questions asked by MP Charanjit Singh Channi:

The government stated in response that the PAN 2.0 project is an e-Governance project of Income Tax Department for “re-engineering the business processes of taxpayer registration services.” The Department will be consolidating all processes related to PAN/TAN services “leveraging the latest technologies”.

It reiterated that the PAN 2.0 project will focus on process simplification, by ensuring “faster service delivery, effective grievance redressal and better protection of sensitive data.”

The PAN cards have included the QR code since 2017-18 , and it is not a new feature. However, under the new PAN 2.0 project with ‘enhancements’, “dynamic QR code will display the latest data present in the PAN database.”, the response added.

Note: A dynamic QR code can refer to a type of QR code that displays real-time, up-to-date information, as implied by the phrase “latest data.” Unlike a static QR code, which links to fixed information, the dynamic QR code on the PAN card may retrieve the most current details from the PAN database when scanned. However, the government has not explicitly clarified this functionality in its official response.

The response clarified that existing PAN holders do not need to obtain new PAN cards under the PAN 2.0 project.

The processing of requests for allotment, updation, and issuance of e-PAN will be provided free of cost. However, the government clarifies that individuals who choose to receive a physical PAN card will need to pay a fee for its issuance.

The financial outlay for this project to re-engineer the processes is Rs. 1435 crores.

“The upgradation is in the interest of improved taxpayer services and there is no wastage of public money. Hence, no redundant expenses are involved in this project.”, it stated.

Last month, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the PAN 2.0 project of the Income Tax Department. The project intends to align with the Government’s vision outlined in the Digital India initiative by facilitating the use of PAN as a Common Identifier across all digital systems of designated government agencies.

“The existing system will be completely upgraded”, stated Ashwini Vaishnaw, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting (I&B), during a cabinet briefing.

“There will be a unified portal, …. and (this project) will be completely paperless and online, and there will be a focus on grievance redressal system”, he added.

Response to an RTI request filed by Abhay Rana revealed that QR codes in PAN cards contain sensitive personal data, including PAN, name, date of birth, photograph, and signature.

The RTI, filed on July 14, 2023, sought information regarding the functionality and technical aspects of the QR codes used in e-PAN cards. It also inquired about the type of data embedded in these QR codes.  This data, encoded in a machine-readable format, can be accessed via free QR code readers on Android devices. Additionally, the information in the enhanced QR code is accessible to user agencies via the freely available PAN QR Code Reader app on Android, also available on the Play Store. The response did not clarify who qualifies as “user agencies” or the verification process on iPhones or desktops. Additionally, the Income Tax Department withheld information on technical aspects, citing commercial sensitivity.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event