M.A. No.311 of 2017 Along with the Original Application No.330/2017, the
applicant has also filed the present MA seeking
condonation of delay of 34 days in filing the accompanying
OA. 2. Keeping in view the submissions and grounds
mentioned in the present MA and in the interest of justice,
the present MA is allowed and accordingly delay in filing
the OA is condoned. Being aggrieved by the order dated 24/30.05.2016
(Annexure A/1) vide which the revision petition of the
applicant had been rejected by the competent authority
holding that the disciplinary and appellate authorities had
already passed the detailed orders and moreover, the
Appellate Authority had already reduced the quantum of
penalty imposed by the Disciplinary Authority, the instant
OA has been filed under Section 19 of the Administrative
Tribunals Act, 1985 praying for the following reliefs:- respondent no.3 above named may please be
 quashed and set aside; c) The Order-in-Original dated 20.01.2015 passed by
 respondent no.4 above named may please be
 quashed and set aside; d) The Memorandum of disagreement bearing
 F.No.II/8(Vig)04(A)/2008 dtd. 31/01/2014 issued
 by the respondent no. 5 above named may kindly
 be quashed and set aside; e) The Hon'ble Tribunal may be pleased to hold that
 the charges being framed by charge memorandum
 dtd. 12/03/2008 being framed by the respondent
 no. 6 above named having not been proved against
 applicant, no penalty is imposable; f) Consequential relief arising out of the aforesaid
 relieves mentioned at clause (a) to (d) above may
 kindly be granted to the applicant herein; f) Personal hearing may please be granted to the
 applicant herein; and h) Any other relief, as may be deemed fit, in the facts
 and circumstances of the case may be granted." 2. Brief facts of the case leading to filing of this OA are
as under:- Due to transfer of Shri Nitesh Srivastav, Deputy
 Commissioner, Shri S K H Meshram the then
 Assistant Commissioner (now, Joint
 Commissioner), Central Excise & Customs, Vapi
 was appointed as an Inquiry Officer vide order
 dated 04.08.2009 of even file number. 2.2 Whereas Shri S K H Meshram, the then
 Deputy Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai
 submitted the Inquiry Report vide letter F.No.
 I/10A(CON)06/2007 dated 28.03.2013. 2.3 Whereas I, Disciplinary Authority, have gone
 through the Inquiry Officer's Report dated
 28.03.2013, all the related documents, records of
 the case carefully and observe that the Article
 of Charges I, II, IV & V of the Charge
 Memorandum dated 12.03.2008 which 9 OA No.330 of 2017 basically relates to his failure to observe
discrepancies like not keeping the sealed
cover under which Duplicate/triplicate
copies of ARE-I received from Customs
Authority/party. Ignoring glaring
discrepancies regarding mentioning of
wrong date of GR Numbers and fake and
faulty office seal of Asstt. Commr. of
Customs on the ARE-1 / Shipping Bill &
absence of mentioning of details viz.
container number on Bill of lading, ignoring
glaring discrepancies while processing
rebate claims even though the shipping bills
submitted showed long gap, the date of ARE-
I and GR forms which were three months
prior to the date of Shipping Bills, he
processed the same without raising any
query either from the rebate claimant or
from the Customs formations etc. in the
rebate documents supplied by the assessee.
This basic scrutiny of documents like ARE-1
and Shipping Bills was expected from any
normal prudent officer. I observe that Shri
C.B.S. Birana, Inspector had processed
rebate claims, had failed to notice the
discrepancies on the export documents
mentioned above and simply signed
processed the same. Therefore, I being
Disciplinary Authority tentatively disagree
with the findings of the Inquiry Officer's on
the said Articles of Charges that the
charge(s) is/are 'not proved or sustainable'
on the grounds that if he had been more
vigilant/cautious while scrutinizing/
forwarding the rebate claim documents, the
said discrepancies could have definitely
been noticed and the forged rebate claims
could not have been sanctioned and the
precious Government revenue could have
been saved. It is observed that it was
incumbent on the officer processing the
claims to have detected the several
discrepancies in the documents on careful
scrutiny. Further, I observe that article of
Charge-II which basically related to his failure in
ensuring that the prescribed mechanism of
receipt of Dak/Tapal in the divisional office,
affixing of office seal along with date on the
same, I tentatively agree with the observation of
Inquiry Officer that in all the claim files processed 10 OA No.330 of 2017 there is an inward receipt stamp on the covering
 letter and files have been put up by the TA to the
 Charged Officer (CO). 3. In view of the above, a copy of Inquiry Report
 dated 28.03.2013 is enclosed herewith for
 submitting defence representation on the same
 by the CO. A final decision for imposition of
 penalty under Rule 11 of CCS (CCA) Rules 1965
 will be taken after submission of representation,
 if any, by Shri C.B.S. Birana, Inspector on the
 Inquiry Officer's report read with including
 disagreement of the Disciplinary Authority as
 above. 4. Shri C.B.S. Birana, Inspector, Central Excise,
 Customs & Service Tax, Surat-II is therefore,
 requested to submit his written representation
 within 15 days and also mention whether he
 would like to be heard in person or not. 5. If Shri C.B.S. Birana, Inspector fails to submit
 his written representation within the time limit
 mentioned above, the case will be decided ex
 parte on the basis of the material evidence
 adduced in the inquiry." 2.4 From the above disagreement Memorandum, it
 is apparent that Disciplinary Authority
 tentatively disagreed on the findings of the IO
 with regard to Article of charges, i.e., I, III, IV
 and V and, therefore, through the said
 disagreement Memorandum, the applicant was
 requested to submit his written representation
 within 15 days and also mention whether he
 would like to be heard in person or not and in
 case applicant fails to submit his written
 representation within the time limit, the case
 will be decided ex parte on the basis of the
 material evidence adduced in the inquiry. 2.5 However, the applicant had not chosen to
 submit any representation against the aforesaid
 disagreement Memorandum. 2.6 The Disciplinary Authority referred the matter to
 the Directorate General of Vigilance seeking
 second stage advice from them. 2.7 The Directorate General of Vigilance vide letter
 dated 30.7.2014 tendered their advice whereby
 advised for imposition of major penalty upon the
 applicant as he has acted in a gross negligent
 manner, which resulted in revenue loss. 2.8 The copy of said second stage advice dated
 30.7.2014 was also given to the applicant on
 9.10.2014 to enable him to file representation, if
 any. 2.9 The applicant submitted his representation
 dated 13.11.2014 against the aforesaid second
 stage advice and disagreement Memorandum.
 The applicant was also given personal hearing
 on 11.12.2014. 2.10 Thereafter, the Disciplinary Authority passed
 the Order, i.e., Order-in-Original No.01/
 COMMISSIONER/2015 dated 19.1.2015
 (Annexure A/3 refer) imposing upon the
 applicant the punishment of reduction to a
 lower stage in the current time scale of pay by
 three (03) stages from the present pay of 12 OA No.330 of 2017 Rs.19,180/- (Basic Pay) + Rs.4600/- (Grade Pay)
 to Rs.17,140/- (Basic Pay) + Rs.4600/- (Grade
 Pay) in the time scale of pay of Rs.9,300-
 34,800/- + Rs.4600/- (Grade Pay for a period
 one (01) year with effect from 01.02.2016,
 without cumulative effect and further ordered
 that the applicant will not earn annual
 increments of his pay during the period of the
 said pay reduction and that on expiry of the said
 period, the said reduction will not have the
 effect of postponing his future increment of pay. 2.11 Aggrieved by the said order of the Disciplinary
 Authority, the applicant had submitted his
 appeal (copy not enclosed). The Appellate
 Authority after considering the same and also
 affording personal hearing to the applicant on
 27.7.2015 rejecting the same vide order dated
 30.7.2015 (Annexure A/2 refer), although
 upheld the findings of the Disciplinary
 Authority, however, since there was no
 allegation of any undue monetary benefit having
 been accrued to the applicant, the aforesaid
 penalty so awarded by the Disciplinary
 Authority was reduced by two stages under Rule
 11(v) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 for a period
 of six (6) months and further ordered that the
 applicant will not earn increments of pay during
 the period of reduction and that on the expiry of
 the above period, the reduction will not have the 13 OA No.330 of 2017 effect of postponing his future increments of
 pay. 2.12 Thereafter applicant preferred his revision
 petition (copy not enclosed) which was rejected
 by the Revisionary Authority vide order dated
 24/30.05.2016 (Annexure A/1 refer). 2.13 Hence, this OA. 3. Pursuant to notice issued to the respondents by this
Tribunal, they have filed their reply opposing the claim of
the applicant. 4. Counsel for the applicant mainly argued that :- In other words, each and every formation
 has to carry out specified functions and duties 14 OA No.330 of 2017 which are entrusted upon him/them as per the Central Excise Act, 1944 , Rules framed there
 under, and taking into consideration the
 circulars issued by the Board of Central Excise
 & Customs. The duties and function of each formation
 in respect of refund/rebate has been specified
 and for officers of the Rank of Inspector and
 Superintendent of Divisional offices, the duties
 and functions have been specified in Circular
 dated 30.05.1995 (Annexure A/8 refer). 4.2 It is further submitted that that it is not
 disputed by the Inquiry Officer, as well as the
 Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate
 Authority that prior to receipt of files at
 Applicant's table, the file(s) passes through the
 following stages, i.e., files were received in
 divisional office by Tax Assistant. These files
 were primarily scrutinized by the Tax Assistant
 and the Divisional Superintendent and not by
 the applicant, the same was in compliance of
 Para 2 (b) and (c) of above circular. The Tax
 Assistant, and the Divisional Superintendent,
 forwarded the file to Range office for further
 verification. The Range officers were the
 concerned officers, who were required to
 scrutinize the documents, prescribed. The said
 procedure was followed as per the Boards
 Circular No.23/88, dated 04.04.1988 (Annexure 15 OA No.330 of 2017 A/9 refer). The said circular and procedure was
 continued in and affirmed in Circular No.
 224/2005-CX.6 dtd.24.12.2008 (Annexure-
 A/10 refer). 4.3 It is further submitted that the files were
 received at Applicant's table after receipt of
 Range report. The received files were already
 scrutinized initially by Divisional Supdt., and
 admissibility was scrutinized by Range officer as
 per above Circulars. Therefore, once the
 scrutiny is made initially at Divisional level by
 Superintendent and as per the check list by the
 Range Office of above referred Circular, there is
 nothing left with Divisional Inspector but to
 process the file for official purpose. 4.4 It is argued that once every formation in Central
 Excise has its specified function and duties,
 therefore, the function of Range Inspector/
 Superintendent cannot be shouldered to the
 Applicant, who is a Divisional Inspector. Hence,
 there was no lapse on part of the applicant. 4.5 It is further submitted that sanctioning or
 rejection claim is a quasi-judicial order, where
 option is left both with the department as well
 as with the party to file an appeal at Appellate
 forums against such order, if they feel
 themselves aggrieved with the order. 4.6 It is again reiterated that the duties and
 function of Divisional Inspector, has been
 specified in above Para and as per the prevailing
 authorities discussed above, during the material
 time, the scrutiny and verification of Rebate
 claims were vested upon Range Officers and
 A.C/D.C., the applicant had not even made
 recommendations for sanction, as the same
 being the discretionary power of Assistant
 Commissioner/ Deputy Commissioner and is a
 quasi-judicial order. 4.7 Further, it is submitted that there is no
 restriction for an exporter regarding
 presenting/loading of a particular consignment
 of CFS Mulund at JNPT Nhava Sheva Port or at
 Jawaharlal Nehru Custom House or at any
 Customs authority within India. In this regard, reliance has been placed on
 the information supplied to one of the charged
 officer under RTI Act, 2005 vide CPIO/
 Assistant Commissioner, Central Excise and
 Customs, Surat-I letter dated 22.12.2009
 (Annexure A/11 refer), wherein it has been
 stated that no instruction was issued and
 circulated by Central Excise, Surat-I
 Commissionerate to its field formations
 regarding verification of shipping bills,
 regarding mentioning of container no. in the bill
 of lading, regarding specimen of stamp/seal/ 17 OA No.330 of 2017 Signature of customs officers posted at New
 Custom House Mumbai/Customs Nhawa Shewa
 (JNPT) (Exhibit-V)/CFS Mulund and
 jurisdiction. 4.8 Reliance has also been made to the letter dated
 23.12.2005 issued by Assistant Commissioner,
 Central Excise, Division-II, Surat-I addressed to
 Deputy Commissioner of Customs, CFS Mulund
 (Export), Mumbai (Annexure-A/12 refer) which
 was replied by Superintendent of Custom (P),
 CFS Mulund (Exp.) vide letter dated 26.12.2005
 (Annexure A/13). In the abovementioned letters issue
 pertaining to different round seals, brass seals
 and port of loading other than the port of export
 was clarified and subsequently rebate was
 sanctioned by the competent authority. 4.9 Further reliance has been place on the shipping
 Bills Nos.2000021850, 2000024667 of M/s.
 Jayprabha Exports, which were procured by
 him under RTI Act, 2005 (Annexure A/14 refer).
 The abovementioned shipping bills were found
 genuine during verification and the rebate
 claims containing these shipping bills were
 sanctioned and rebate claim files were post
 audited by Central Excise HO, Audit, Surat-I
 and no query/objection was raised. It is reiterated that in all these shipping
 bills, port of loading is shown as Mulund (CFS)/
 JNPT and on the back side of the said shipping
 bills, round seal of Jawahalal Nehru Customs
 House, Nhawa Shewa are affixed whereas the
 stamp of Superintendent of Customs (P),
 Mumbai was required to be affixed. 4.10 It is once again reiterated that as far as mention
 of container number in the Bill of Lading is
 concerned, the CPIO, JNCH, Raigad vide his
 Order dated 12.11.2009 (Annexure A/15 refer)
 issued under F.No.S/12-RTI-320A/09AM(X) has
 inter alia mentioned that a bill of Lading is
 contract of carriage between the shipper/
 consignor and the carrier of delivers of the
 shipped cargo to the rightful consignee.
 Determination of the same is the carrier's
 business and there are no such instructions,
 orders, rules, Acts or the Board's Circular
 insisting to mention container number in Bill of
 Lading. 4.11 It is vehemently argued that though the charges
 should have not been levelled against the C.O.,
 as the admissibility of claim were certified by the
 Range officers after due scrutiny and
 verification. The above few illustrations will be of
 great help in arriving at a conclusion that the
 alleged charges are baseless in view of the
 different practices being followed in different 19 OA No.330 of 2017 ports of exports at Mumbai. Hence, the learned
 Commissioner and respected Appellate
 Authority ought to have considered applicant's
 defence in dropping of the charge in toto. In support of above contention, the
 applicant relies upon the judgment case of Shreemal Silk Mills Vs CCE, Surat reported
 in 2009(236) ELT 592 wherein the Hon'ble
 Bench, CESTAT, Ahmadabad had held as
 under:- 4.12 Thus, simply relying on the charges levelled by
 the investigating agency, the learned
 Disciplinary Authority has erred in arriving at
 the above conclusion and had erred in imposing
 the major penalty upon the applicant. The
 findings of the learned Inquiry Officer has never
 been discussed in the entire disagreement note
 nor by the advice of the Central Vigilance
 Commission nor in the subject reference order
 passed by the learned Disciplinary Authority
 wherein the order has simply and rhetorically
 repeated the contents of the charge memo and 20 OA No.330 of 2017 not any other grounds or authority of law,
 Circulars, Trade Notices, Instructions, Sections
 and Rules framed under Central Excise Act,
 1944 , so as to substantiate the allegation.
 Hence, the orders of the Disciplinary Authority
 and Appellate Authority are not tenable before
 law and are infructuous in light of the various
 judicial pronouncements. 4.13 With regard to the assessment of Shipping Bill,
 it is submitted that the applicant has already
 explained above that the scrutiny is not carried
 out by the applicant. The detailed work of
 processing of the subject rebate has been in
 Circular dated 30-5-1995 (Annexure A/8 refer). 4.14 The applicant has not committed any
 misconduct. In this regard, reliance has been
 placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the case of M/s. Hindustan Steel v/s
 State of Orissa reported at 1978 (20) ELT (J- 159) (SC) wherein, it has held that: 4.15 It is further submitted that there are no charges
 to the effect that the applications were
 incomplete, not filed in proper form, that the
 files were not sent for post audit, the Form "C"
 were not sent to the designated Authority, that
 the rebate/cheque registers (03 in Nos) were not
 maintained, that the undue advantage was
 extended with some motive by the applicant. 4.16 It is also submitted that in this particular scam
 the exporters, forged the rubber stamp of the
 Custom offices, also they forged the signature of
 the Custom officers. As they intended to claim
 the Rebate at Divisional level, therefore, they did
 not try or attempt to forge the signature and
 stamp of Excise Officer. At the material time,
 there was no physical verification of the
 Shipping bills from the port of Export. The same
 was made implemented/operative from
 15.07.2004 onwards (Annexure A/16 refer), as
 per orders issued, and the files in question were
 prior to 30.11.2003. 4.17 It is further submitted that in case of fraud and
 forgery, there are provisions of recovery of excise
 duty and erroneous refund under Section 11 of
 the Custom and Excise Act, 1944, invoking
 extended period of five years. In all the cases
 offence case was booked both at Divisional level 22 OA No.330 of 2017 as well conscious disregard of its obligation.
 Whether penalty should be imposed for failure
 to perform a statutory obligation is a matter of
 discretion of the authority to be exercised
 judicially and on a consideration of all the
 relevant circumstances. Even if a minimum
 penalty is prescribed, the authority competent
 to impose the penalty will be justified in refusing
 to impose penalty, when there is a technical or
 venial breach of the provisions of the Act. 4.18 In support of the claim of the applicant, reliance

 has been placed by the learned counsel on the

 following decisions:- Evidence, however, voluminous it maybe, which is
 neither relevant in a broad sense nor establishes any
 nexus between the alleged misconduct and the
 charged officer, is not evidence in law. Though the
 Departmental proceedings are based on
 preponderance of probabilities it does not give liberty
 of assumptions and presumptions to the disciplinary
 authority." (ii) The same contention is repatriated again by
 Delhi High Court in Dilip Kumar Rabidas Vs.
 Union of India and Others - 2/2205(HC Delhi) - decided on 18.06.2004 (Swami News February-
 2005) that "Mere negligence does not constitute
 misconduct and no charge - memo can be issued in
 the absence of misconduct." (iii) The Supreme Court in Raminder Duggal
 Vs. Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and
 another -6/2005 - decided on 01.10.2004 held
 that "Lack of efficiency, failure to attain the highest
 standard of administrative ability while holding a
 high post could not themselves constitute misconduct.
 Government action must be based on utmost good
 faith, belief and ought to be supported with reason." (iv) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
 State of Punjab and other Vs. Ram Singh,
 Ex. Constable (AIR 1992 SC 288) in Para 4
 observed as follows: 4.19 It is further submitted that the applicant while
 functioning as Divisional Inspector had executed
 the functions in good faith and there was no
 defiance of law. As such, for duties executed 24 OA No.330 of 2017 and performed on good faith and reasonable
 belief, cannot be penalized. In this regard,
 applicant placed reliance on the following
 judgments: (2) The duty on the said goods should have
 been discharged. (3) The rebate claim should not be hit by time
 bar. The answer to these aspects/requirement 25 OA No.330 of 2017 were reported as "yes" by the Range officer. At
 this stage of handling files the only job left with
 Divisional Inspector was to see the report of the
 Range officer. That is processing of file in view of
 Range Officers report and in case of adverse
 report preparation of Show Cause Notice,
 Sending of files for post Audit after sanction,
 and sending of form "C" to respective CAO/
 PAO. There was no duty prescribed under Central Excise Act, 1944 , Rules framed there
 under, Circular and Notification issued by
 CBEC that the divisional Inspector will
 scrutinize and verify the Rebate Claim before
 sanction. Therefore, the charge sheet and order
 issued by the Commissioner needs to be set
 aside keeping in view the above submissions. 4.21 It is also submitted that there were no lapses in
 part of officer as an Inspector of Divisional
 office, the said fact is supported by the amount
 of recovery made in these fraudulent export
 cases. The recovery particulars are as below: Amount recovered along with interest mentioned
 and forthcoming from O I A No. RKA/514-
 515/SRT-I/08 dated 23.07.08. 2. M/s Alka fashion:- Amount involved Rs. 17,79,720/-Amount recovered Rs. 21,80,090
 along with interest of Rs.5,91,716/- and penalty
 of Rs. 50,000/- mentioned and forthcoming from
 Settlement Commission Order No.51/Misc/
 ORDER/CEX/KNA/2010 dated 27.07.2010. In
 pursuant to final order No. 21/Final order No.
 21/ Final order/ CEX/KNA/2009 dated
 26.03.2009. 3. M/s Jhanwar International:- Rs. 19,95,669 /-; In
 this case investigation revealed mere paper
 transactions between the manufacturer and
 exporter. 4. There were no manufacturing of goods by M/s
 Zenith Dyg & Printing Mills, M/s Sheela dyeing &
 Pig. Mill and M/s Archana Dyeing & Printing
 Mills. These Processors in total paid Rs.
 19,83,350/- by TR-6 Challan and Rs. 2,47,364/-
 by proper and Genuine CENVAT Credit. Details of
 which are as per attached sheet. 5. M/s. T.G. International:- Amount Involved Rs. 31,58,605/-. In this case investigation revealed
 mere paper transactions between the
 manufacturer and exporter. There were no
 manufacturing of goods by. It is forthcoming from
 the Show Cause Notice issued to the exporter that
 following recoveries were effected in the present
 case. Para 75.1(c) of the Show Cause Notice sates
 that an Amount of Rs. 3,58,085/- paid by
 processor. Para 75.2(c) of the Show Cause Notice
 sates that an Amount of Rs. 90,246/- and interest
 of Rs. 28,684/- paid by processor. Para 48 of the
 Show Cause Notice sates that an Amount of Rs.
 3,00,000/- paid by Rule 12B manufacturer. Para
 45 of the Show Cause Notice sates that an
 Amount of Rs. 3,00,000/- paid by Processor. Para
 38 of the Show Cause Notice sates that an
 Amount of Rs.1,39,947/- paid by Processor. 6. M/s Manohar Processor a manufacturing unit in
 this case paid an amount of Rs. 3,59,094/- and
 an amount of Rs.2,89,941/- towards interest
 mentioned and forthcoming from O I A No.
 RKA/143-144/SRT-1/2010 dated 24.02.2010
 (Para-1). 7. M/s Kashi Silk Mills a manufacturing unit in this
 case paid an amount of Rs. 9,12,240/-/-
 mentioned and forthcoming from No/153/ADJ/
 JC-VKS/OA/08-09 dated 30.22.2008 (Para-14.1). 8. M/s Subham Textile:- Para-36 of the Show Cause
 Notice states total amount involved is Rs. 5,73,
 158/-, It is stated that 01 Lacs will be paid every
 Month. On the strength of above recoveries, it is
submitted that as amount involved in Charge 27 OA No.330 of 2017 Memorandum had already been recovered under
 extended period of five years as when an
 assessee commits fraud etc., there are
 provisions for recovery under Sec-11 of the
 Central Excise Act, 1944. 4.22 It is submitted that there is no collusion,
 conspiracy, connivance or any monetary motive
 of the officer than no charges sustain against
 the officer while performing an official duty. 4.23 Lastly, it is submitted that as there was neither
 any evidence brought out by the department
 against the applicant nor there had been any
 negligence on the part of the applicant during
 the course of processing of rebate claim, the
 instant OA deserves to be allowed by this
 Tribunal 5. Per contra, although factual aspect of the matter as
 recorded above has not been disputed by the learned
 counsel for the respondents, however, learned
 counsel has mainly argued that: Thereafter on going through the Inquiry Report
 dated 28.3.2013, all related documents and 29 OA No.330 of 2017 records of the case, the Disciplinary Authority
 issued Memorandum of Disagreement dated
 31.1.2014 and call upon the applicant to file his
 defence representation, if he wanted to do so.
 But the applicant failed to file his defence
 submission to the Disciplinary Authority. The
 applicant submitted his representation on
 13.11.2014 defending his case against the 2nd
 Stage Advice and disagreement Memorandum. 5.4 It is also submitted that the disciplinary
 authority has passed an Order in Original dated
 20.1.2015 after considering all factual as well
 as legal aspects of the case along with charge
 memorandum, replies of the applicant and
 other documents on record and found the
 applicant was guilty of the charges levelled
 against him as per charge memorandum and
 imposed the penalty of reduction to a lower
 stage in current time scale of pay of the
 applicant by three stage from Rs.19180/- +
 grade pay of Rs.4600/- to Rs.l7140/- + grade
 pay of Rs.4600/- in time scale of pay of
 Rs.9,300-34,800 + Rs.4,600/-(Grade Pay) for a
 period of one year with effect from 1.2.2015
 without cumulative effect. 5.5 It is further submitted that being aggrieved and
 dissatisfied with the said penalty order of DA,
 the applicant had preferred appeal before the
 appellant authority and the appellant authority 30 OA No.330 of 2017 by upholding the findings of the Disciplinary
 authority, by order dated 30.7.2015 was
 pleased to reduce the punishment of the
 applicant by 2 stage for the period of six months
 and further directed that the applicant will not
 earn increments of pay during the period of
 such reduction and on expiry of period of one
 year, the reduction will not have the effect of
 postponing future increments of pay. 5.6 It is also submitted that being aggrieved and
 dissatisfied with the order dated 30.7.2015 of
 the Appellant Authority, the applicant had
 preferred Revision Petition before the President
 of India and the President of India was pleased
 to confirm the order of Appellant Authority by
 his Order dated 24.5.2016. 5.7 It is further submitted that from the aforesaid,
 it is evidently clear that while conducting the
 departmental inquiry in the matter, the
 provisions of Rule 15 of the CCS (CCA) Rules,
 1965 have been very much complied with by the
 respondents. The charge Memorandum is
 neither vague nor unclear. Rather the
 departmental proceeding initiated against the
 applicant was legal and proper which was held
 in compliance of the principles of natural justice
 and the penalty was imposed on the applicant
 after following due procedure under relevant
 rules and there is no lacuna in following the 31 OA No.330 of 2017 procedure and furthermore, the penalty is not
 harsh in nature and. Therefore. the orders
 impugned in this case are just, proper and legal
 and not required to be set aside. 5.8 It is further submitted that so far as applicant's
 contention that the Hon'ble Commissioner did
 not take cognizance of the fact that the duties
 and functions of each formation in respect of
 refund/rebate has been specified and for
 officers of the rank of Inspector and
 Superintendent of Divisional level are
 concerned, the duties and functions have been
 specified in Circular dated 30.5.1995, which is
 prevalent. Our attention has been drawn to paras 2b,
 2c and 2e of the said circular dated 30.5.1995,
 which provide specific duties to be performed by
 Inspector while dealing refund/rebate but the
 same had not been carried out by the applicant
 while dealing with the aforementioned rebate
 claims. The directions issued by the board thus
 falsify the contention of the applicant that he
 has simply only put the refund/rebate claim to
 the superior and to DC for order without
 recommending it for sanction/reject. In such
 way, the applicant has committed gross
 criminal misconduct and negligence while
 discharging his duties and thus failed to
 perform work with utmost integrity, devotion to 32 OA No.330 of 2017 duty and conduct which is unbecoming of a
 Government servant in contravention of
 provisions of Rule 3(1) (i), (ii),(iii) of CCS
 (Conduct) Rules, 1964 and hence, contentions
 are not sustain in eyes of law. 5.9 Learned counsel has argued that the applicant
 relied on Board circulars dated 4.4.1988 and
 dated 24.12.2008. However, from a plain
 reading of the said circulars, it is clearly
 transpired that the rebate claims are required to
 be scrutinize at divisional level. The said
 circulars do not provide anything that Inspector
 is not required to scrutinize refund claim. The
 applicant stated that the Range Officers who are
 required to scrutinize the documents prescribed
 but from the circular date 4.4.1988, it is very
 clear that different tasks are assigned to each
 proper officer. It also provides for check to be
 carried out by Divisional Assistant Collector
 (Now Assistant Commissioner). At Division
 Office each officer is entrusted work that is to
 be performed by him. Therefore, one who has
 been entrusted the work related to refund is
 supposed to carry out check as provided in the
 circular dated 4.4.1988. Therefore, the
 contention of the applicant is not tenable in the
 eyes of law. Further the Tax Assistant and
 Superintendent, who carried out preliminary
 checks, thus in view of above circular too, the 33 OA No.330 of 2017 applicant failed to discharge duties, which he
 was required to perform. 5.10 Learned counsel further argued that it is
 admitted by the applicant that he has received
 the files at his table after receipt of range
 reports and he has left with nothing to do. Such
 statement by the applicant is nothing but shows
 his irresponsible approach towards the work
 assigned to him despite the fact that certain
 checks are to be carried out at Divisional level
 as provided in the said circular relied by the
 applicant. 5.11 Learned counsel has argued that the contention
 of the applicant that the scrutiny and
 verification of rebate claims were vested upon
 Range Officer and A.C./D.C., if the A.C/D.C.
 alone has to do this work by himself is baseless
 and if such is the position, there would be no
 need to have subordinate staff, who as per duty
 are assigned to handle rebate work. Further
 contention of the applicant that he had not even
 made recommendation for sanction, as the
 same is being discretionary power of Asst.
 Commissioner/Dy. Commissioner, the same
 itself proves how the applicant shrugged off his
 responsibilities. 5.12 Learned counsel has argued that the applicant
 failed to notice that when the shipping bills 34 OA No.330 of 2017 were filed at CFS Mulund, how there will be a
 seal of Customs house, Nhava Sheva. Had the
 Officer been carried out the work of
 scrutiny/Checks in regular course, he would
 have noticed the discrepancies viz. signatures of
 the Officers, abnormality in customs seals etc.
 Therefore, by seeking information under RTI
 and bringing on record that there were no such
 instructions issued by the Department is
 nothing but to escape from the responsibility of
 scrutiny/check of refund/rebate claims. 5.13 It is also submitted that reliance placed on the
 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shreemal Silk Mills vs. CCE (supra) as well as
 in Sher Bahadur (supra) and of the Hon'ble
 High Court of Delhi in Dilip Kumar Rabids (supra) are not applicable in the present case as
 the instant case is a proven case of fraudulent
 rebate case. 5.14 Learned counsel has further argued that from
 the pleadings of the OA, it is clear that
 applicant has himself admitted that the
 scrutiny is not carried out by him and relied
 upon the Board circular dated 30.5.1995.
 However, the said circular specifically provides
 that immediately on receipt of refund claim, the
 refund claim is to be scrutinized by the
 officer not below the rank of Inspector. 5.15 Learned counsel has also argued that all the
 authorities, i.e., Disciplinary, Appellate and
 Revisionary Authorities have passed detailed
 and reasoned orders, as they have dealt in
 detail the submissions of the applicant, which
 were not found to be tenable and arrived at a
 logical finding before imposing the punishment
 upon the applicant. As such it is incorrect on
 the part of the applicant to say that order
 passed by the disciplinary authority is based on
 assumption and presumption. 5.16 It is further submitted that it is undisputed fact
 that the refund claims processed by the
 applicant were forged one based on forged
 export documents involving Rs.69.9 lakhs Govt.
 exchequer. 5.17 Learned counsel has further submitted that this
 case cannot be said to be a case of 'no evidence'
 and while exercising the power of judicial
 review, the Court and Tribunal are required to
 confine the same to the decision making
 process and not as that of an Appellate
 Authority and once evidence has been accepted
 by the departmental authority, the Tribunal or
 High Court in exercise of power of judicial
 review cannot interfere with the findings of facts
 recorded by re-appreciating evidence as if
 courts are Appellate Authority. In support to the above submissions,
 reliance has been placed on the decision of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of
 Karnataka vs. N. Gangaraj , reported in 2020
 (O) AIJET-SC 65777. In view of the above facts and
 circumstances of the case, learned counsel has
 submitted that the prayers sought by the
 applicant in this OA are totally misconceived
 and not tenable in the eyes of law and
 accordingly, the present OA deserves to be
 dismissed with cost. 6. In rejoinder, besides reiterating the contentions and
refuting the contentions of the learned counsel for the
respondents, learned counsel for the applicant has also
placed reliance on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme in
the case of Union of India vs. Parma Nanda reported in
(1989) 2 SCC 177, and submitted that Tribunal has
ordinarily no power to interfere with punishment awarded
by competent authority in departmental proceedings on
ground of the penalty being excessive or disproportionate
to the misconduct proved, if the punishment is based on
evidence and is not arbitrary, mala fide or perverse but
Tribunal can interfere with the apparently unreasonable
punishment where it is imposed on the basis of conviction
by criminal court dispensing with departmental enquiry
under second proviso (a) to Article 311 (2) , Article 14 and Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 6.1 Learned counsel for the applicant has also place on
reliance of certain orders in one of which warning had
been issued by the respondents in which the allegations
against the CO was the same as in the instant case and in
another case the respondents had dropped the charges of
similar nature levelled against the CO (Superintendent) on
the ground that there was nothing to prove the imputation
of charges against the CO. However, in the case of the
applicant, the Disciplinary Authority has imposed the
punishment of reduction to a lower stage in the current
time scale of pay by three (03) stages from the present pay
of Rs.19,180/- (Basic Pay) + Rs.4600/- (Grade Pay) to
Rs.17,140/- (Basic Pay) + Rs.4600/- (Grade Pay) in the
time scale of pay of Rs.9,300-34,800/- + Rs.4600/- (Grade
Pay for a period one (01) year with effect from 01.02.2016,
which punishment was keeping in view the fact that there
was no allegation of any undue monetary benefit having
been accrued to the applicant, the Appellate Authority
instead of quashing the same had modified and reduced
the same by two stages for a period of six months. The
Revisionary Authority had mechanically rejected the
revision petition of the applicant. 7. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and
carefully perused the pleadings of the case as well as the
judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the
parties. 8. It is settled principle of law that in departmental
proceedings, the Disciplinary Authority is the sole judge of
facts. Once findings of fact, based on appreciation of 38 OA No.330 of 2017 evidence are recorded by the Disciplinary Authority &
Appellate Authority, normally the Court/Tribunal may not
interfere with those factual findings unless it finds that
the recorded findings were based either on no evidence or
that the findings were wholly perverse and/or legally
untenable. The adequacy or inadequacy of the evidence is
not permitted to be canvassed before the High
Court/Tribunal, since the High Court/Tribunal does not
sit as an Appellate Authority, over the factual findings
recorded during departmental proceedings, while
exercising the power of judicial review. The Tribunal
cannot, normally speaking, substitute its own conclusion,
with regard to the guilt of the delinquent, for that of the
departmental authorities. 8.1 In this regard, it is profitable to mention that by
referring catena of judgments on the point of scope of
judicial review by the Courts/Tribunals, the Three Judges
Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of B.C.
Chaturvedi v. Union of India [(1995) 6 SCC 749 : 1996
SCC (L&S) 80] wherein it has been held as under: In another case in the case of Union of India vs. P.
Gunasekaran reported in (2015) 2 SCC 610, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that while re-appreciating evidence
the High Court cannot act as an appellate authority in the
disciplinary proceedings. The Court held the parameters
as to when the High Court shall not interfere in the
disciplinary proceedings as under:- 23. It has been consistently followed in the
later decision of this Court in H.P.
SEB v. Mahesh Dahiya [H.P. SEB v. Mahesh
Dahiya, (2017) 1 SCC 768 : (2017) 1 SCC
(L&S) 297] and recently by the three-Judge
Bench of this Court in Pravin
Kumar v. Union of India [Pravin
Kumar v. Union of India, (2020) 9 SCC 471 : 24. It is thus settled that the power of
judicial review, of the constitutional courts,
is an evaluation of the decision-making
process and not the merits of the decision
itself. It is to ensure fairness in treatment
and not to ensure fairness of conclusion.
The court/tribunal may interfere in the
proceedings held against the delinquent if
it is, in any manner, inconsistent with the
rules of natural justice or in violation of
the statutory rules prescribing the mode of
enquiry or where the conclusion or finding
reached by the disciplinary authority is
based on no evidence. If the conclusion or
finding be such as no reasonable person
would have ever reached or where the
conclusions upon consideration of the
evidence reached by the disciplinary
authority are perverse or suffer from patent
error on the face of record or based on no
evidence at all, a writ of certiorari could be
issued. To sum up, the scope of judicial
review cannot be extended to the
examination of correctness or
reasonableness of a decision of authority
as a matter of fact. 25. When the disciplinary enquiry is
conducted for the alleged misconduct
against the public servant, the court is to
examine and determine: 26. It is well settled that where the enquiry
officer is not the disciplinary authority, on
receiving the report of enquiry, the
disciplinary authority may or may not
agree with the findings recorded by the
former, in case of disagreement, the
disciplinary authority has to record the
reasons for disagreement and after
affording an opportunity of hearing to the
delinquent may record his own findings if
the evidence available on record be
sufficient for such exercise or else to remit
the case to the enquiry officer for further
enquiry. 27. It is true that strict rules of evidence
are not applicable to departmental enquiry
proceedings. However, the only requirement
of law is that the allegation against the
delinquent must be established by such
evidence acting upon which a reasonable
person acting reasonably and with
objectivity may arrive at a finding
upholding the gravity of the charge against
the delinquent employee. It is true that
mere conjecture or surmises cannot sustain
the finding of guilt even in the
departmental enquiry proceedings. 28. The constitutional court while
exercising its jurisdiction of judicial review
under Article 226 or Article 136 of the
Constitution would not interfere with the
findings of fact arrived at in the 42 OA No.330 of 2017 departmental enquiry proceedings except in
 a case of mala fides or perversity i.e. where
 there is no evidence to support a finding or
 where a finding is such that no man acting
 reasonably and with objectivity could have
 arrived at those findings and so long as
 there is some evidence to support the
 conclusion arrived at by the departmental
 authority, the same has to be sustained." Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the State of
Karnataka & Anr. vs. Umesh (2022) 6 SCC 563: (2022)
2 SCC (L&S) 321, emphasised about the scope of judicial
review by the Courts/Tribunal in the matter of
disciplinary/departmental inquiry and held that:- 9. By keeping in mind the aforesaid dicta laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court and considering the facts and
circumstances of the present case as discussed
hereinabove, it is required to be noted that it is not correct
on the part of the applicant that there is no evidence in 43 OA No.330 of 2017 support of the allegations levelled against him. It is
noticed that the Disciplinary Authority while passing the
aforesaid order after discussing the evidence surface
during the inquiry and taking into consideration the same
held that the above noted charges levelled against the
applicant are established based on the evidence. Therefore, in the light of the law also settled by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of State of Karnataka vs. N.
Gangaraj , reported in (2020) (3) SCC that discrepancies
in evidence will not make it a case of no evidence and,
therefore, interference in findings on ground of
discrepancies in evidence of Department not called for.
Once evidence has been accepted by departmental
authorities, Tribunal or High Court in exercise of power of
judicial review cannot interfere with findings of facts
recorded by re-appreciating evidence as if Courts are
Appellate Authority, as well as on the point of violation of
principles of natural justice, in the absence of it suffice to
state that we do not find any irregularities in decision
making process while conducting the departmental
proceeding in the instant case as the applicant has not
been able to make out any case on this account. 10. The reliance has been placed by both the parties on
Circular dated 30.5.1995 (Annexure A/8 refer), the clause
2(b) of the same specifically provides that 'immediately
on receipt of an application, the same must be
scrutinised by an officer not below the rank of an
Inspector for its completeness'. Further clause 2 (c)
provides that 'Preliminary scrutiny should be carried 44 OA No.330 of 2017 out with regard to completeness of the information in
the proforma already prescribed, verification of
supporting documents to substantiate the refund
claim and to evidence payment of duty.' and clause 2 (e) provides that 'Collectors should direct the Division
Assistant Collectors to designate an officer by name
who will carry out the initial verification and issue
the acknowledgement thereof.' 11. We find that applicant himself admitted that he has
not done any scrutiny of such kind of refund claim and
had the same been carried out by the applicant, such
fraud could not have been committed and loss of revenue
had been avoided as rightly contended by the respondents.
Although the applicant had submitted that the amount
involved in Charge Memorandum had already been
recovered under extended period of five years as and when
an assessee commits fraud etc., in view of provisions for
recovery under Sec-11 of the Central Excise Act, 1944,
however, the same does not absolve the applicant from the
failure to discharge his assigned duties. 11.1 We have also carefully perused the orders passed
by the Disciplinary, Appellate and Revisionary Authorities
and find that the same are reasoned orders. Rather it is
apt to mention that Appellate Authority although upheld
the findings of the Disciplinary Authority, however, had
reduced the punishment so awarded by the Disciplinary
Authority keeping in view that there was no allegation of
any undue monetary benefit having been accrued to the
applicant. The punishment modified or reduced by the 45 OA No.330 of 2017 Appellate Authority cannot be said to be disproportionate
to the gravity of misconduct levelled against the applicant.
Therefore, we do not find any illegality and irregularities in
the action of the respondents. 11.2 The judgments relied upon by the applicant as
noted above are not relevant to the facts and
circumstances of the case. So far as reliance placed on the
orders passed in other employees is concerned, the same
cannot be a ground to claim parity as the same have been
passed by the Disciplinary Authority after considering the
facts and circumstances of the said case. 12. In the result, for the foregoing reasons, we do not
find any illegality and irregularities on the stand of the
respondents while passing the aforesaid orders and as
such we are of the considered view that there is no merit
in the present case and the same is dismissed accordingly. 11. There shall be no order as to costs.