37. This leads us to conclude that M/s Spectro
Lab Equipment Pvt Ltd deliberately and in a very
systematic and planned manner arranged to
submit doctored and forged documents to evade
Custom duties. The role of the co-applicant Shri Raj
Kumar Pal as it emerges from the foregoing is that of a
dummy erected to take the blame in a situation like the
present one when the modus operandi of evasion of
duty by Applicants' is detected and act as a buffer. In
this view of the things, Shri Raj Kumar Pal does not
appear to have actually masterminded the evasion of
Custom duty. 38. From the above it is clear that, the applicants
though have made a true and full disclosure of
their duty liability, yet they have not come clean
and truthfully disclosed the manner in which this
duty liability arose and their factual role in
evasion of Custom Duties. In the Settlement
application the applicant have claimed to be a victim of
fraud by Shri Raj Kumar Pal but what actually has 7 C/53817/2018

 emerged as detailed above, is that the applicants were
 themselves the; perpetrators of the fraud on the
 Government. Thus the disclosure by the applicants is
 not true. That being so, the Applicants do not satisfy
 the precondition of fulfilling the statutory requirement
 as enshrined in Sub Section (1) of Section 127(B) of
 the Customs Act, 1962 which reads as: 39. Accordingly, we reject the application nos
 5225/2016, 5260/2016, 5224/2016 and
 5261/2016 following the provisions of Sub
 Section (8) of Section 127(C) ." (emphasis supplied) 6. Thereafter, the appellant filed a reply dated 23.01.2018 to the show

cause notice pointing out that fraud had been committed by Raj Kumar Pal

without the knowledge or connivance of the appellant. Details of the

payment made by the appellant to Raj Kumar Pal, as certified by the

Chartered Accountant, were also provided. 7. The Commissioner, however, confirmed the demand with interest

and penalties. The relevant portions of the order passed by the

Commissioner are reproduced below: as per the submission of advocate of noticee
 no. 02 that Shri Raj Kumar Pal was hand to
 mouth which is very surprising that a person
 who has defrauded the Noticees no. 01 by a
 substantial amount (i.e. duty difference as
 per the SCN) can under normal
 circumstances not be hand to mouth unless,
 he is not beneficiary of the scam. (e) Shri Raj Kumar Pal was raising bills upon
 the Noticee No. 01 which included Customs
 duties paid for the consignment, handling
 charges and other charges for his own
 services and the Noticees no. 01 had
 claimed to have paid the same to Shri Raj
 Kumar Pal To verify the clain of Shri Raj
 Kumar Pal, he was asked to submit the Bank
 statement but the same was not submitted
 by him/his advocate and he/his advocate
 informed that he did not know the Bank
 Account Number of Shri Raj Kumar Pal
 which raised the strong suspicion to avoid
 the investigation and to circumvent the
 enquiry being made. However, officers of
 SIIB were able to locate bank account of
 M/s Complete Forwarders Pvt. Ltd. arid M/s
 Complete Logistics for the period from April
 2013 to March 2017 only. On verification of
 these bank records, for limited period, it was
 found that payments made by Noticee No.
 01 to Shri Raj Kumar Pal could not be
 matched with each payment made Bills of
 Entry wise as claimed by Shri Sushant
 Gupta in his statement dated 04.11.2015. It
 was also found in many instances that the
 sums paid by Noticee No. 01 to Shri Raj
 Kumar Pal's firms through cheque were
 withdrawn in cash on the same day or
 immediately thereafter. 5.5 In view of the above material facts/evidences
available and facts submitted before the
Settlement Commission and discussed above, I
find that that M/s Spectro Lab Equipment Pvt Ltd
deliberately and in a very systematic and planned
manner arranged to submit doctored and forged
documents to evade Custom duties. The role of
the co- applicant Shri Raj Kumar Pal as it emerges
from the foregoing is that of a dummy planted to
take the blame in a situation like the present one 12 C/53817/2018

 when the modus operandi of evasion of duty by
 Applicants' is detected and act as a buffer. In this
 view of the things, Shri Raj Kumar Pal does not appear
 to have actually masterminded the evasion of Custom
 duty but he has abated and committed the forgery on
 the sole directions of the noticee No. 01.

 *****

 5.7 In view of the above, I hold that the
 differential duty amounting to Rs. 1,19,54,241/-
 in SCN has rightly been demanded under Section
 28(4) along with interest under Section 28AA of
 the Customs Act, 1962. 1962. *****

 5.8 I further find that Penalties have been
 proposed on the notice under Section 114A and Section 114AA of the Custom Act, 1962." (emphasis supplied) 8. The order passed by the Commissioner to the extent it imposes

penalties upon the appellant under sections 114A and 114AA of the

Customs Act has been assailed in this appeal. 9. Ms. Reena Khair, learned counsel for the appellant assisted by Shri

Shubham Jaiswal made the following submissions: There is also no allegation that Raj Kumar Pal committed the

 fraud at the instance of the appellant; (iii) It is alleged in the notice that Raj Kumar Pal had forged

 documents such as import invoice, Bill of Entry and Bank 13 C/53817/2018

 Challans. The notice proposes a penalty on the appellant

 stating that the appellant is responsible for the actions of Raj

 Kumar Pal. The adjudicating authority notes in paragraph

 5.4.2 that Raj Kumar Pal had admitted to the forgery as well

 as the commission of the fraud. He has also stated in no

 uncertain terms that he acted alone, and the correct duty

 was collected from the appellant and lesser duty paid to the

 Department by forging invoices and challans. In view of this

 factual position, no penalty was imposable on the appellant; (iv) The claim of Raj Kumar Pal that he is hand to mouth and,

 therefore, cannot be the beneficiary of this fraud is false.

 The illegal gains from committing such frauds are not kept in

 the bank account, and the denials of Raj Kumar Pal, are

 contrary to his voluntary statement recorded under the Customs Act , which statement has not been retracted.

 Further, Raj Kumar Pal failed to submit his bank details to

 the Settlement Commission; (v) The appellant is unaware as to whether Raj Kumar Pal had

 accomplices with whom he would have shared his illegal

 gains. In fact, Raj Kumar Pal has been implicated in other

 cases of smuggling; (vi) The findings in paragraph 5.5 of the impugned order are

 beyond the show cause notice and the evidence on record; (vii) The penalty under section 114AA of the Customs Act is

 unjustified, in the absence of any evidence to show that the

 appellant signed or caused to sign any false documents. (viii) Raj Kumar Pal was not an employee of the appellant. He was

 also not authorized for performing any unlawful acts. These 14 C/53817/2018

 were done by him, on his own account. The appellant cannot

 be penalized for the unauthorized acts of an agent; (ix) No enquiries have been made, by the Department as to how

 Raj Kumar Pal obtained the original stamp of the

 Superintendent of Customs and the bank officials. Raj

 Kumar is a regular offender and has been penalized in

 several other cases and the appellant is a victim of his illegal

 acts; (x) The appellant had filed a police complaint. Despite several

 visits to the police station, the police failed to take any

 action against Raj Kumar Pal. There was nothing further,

 appellant could have done, beyond reporting the offence to

 the police. It was for the police to undertake the necessary

 investigations. In fact, the police report clearly states that

 the matter is still under investigation; (xi) The appellant had made the necessary deposits towards

 duty, interest, and penalty. As the deposits are adequate

 discharge of the liability, the appellant had requested that

 the proceedings be concluded in terms of section 28(5) of

 the Customs Act; and (xii) The amount deposited by the appellant is required to be

 appropriated towards the confirmed duty demand. 10. Shri Rakesh Kumar, learned authorized representative appearing on

behalf of the Department, however, supported the impugned order and

submitted that the Commissioner committed no illegality in imposing

penalties upon the appellant under sections 114A and 114AA of the

Customs Act. C/53817/2018 11. The submissions advanced by the learned counsel appearing for the

appellant and the learned authorized representative appearing for the

department have been considered. 12. What transpires is that Raj Kumar Pal was appointed as Clearing and

Forwarding agent by the appellant for undertaking complete logistics,

including customs clearance of the lab equipments imported by the

appellant. The appellant paid charges, including customs duty to Raj

Kumar Pal through banking channels. Raj Kumar Pal arranged the delivery

of goods and provided copies of the customs assessed Bills of Entry and

the bank attested challans reflecting payments of customs duty. Raj

Kumar in his statement recorded on 06.11.2015 stated that he changed

the value reflected in the import invoice obtained from the airlines or from

the importer by scanning the import invoices and then editing the same.

He then lowered the value reflected in the original invoices and Bills of

Entry to a value which was not the correct value of the goods. The copies

of Bills of Entry generated from Customs were not handed over by Raj

Kumar Pal to the appellant. Raj Kumar Pal also admitted that what he

charged from the client was a higher element of the customs duty and not

the actual amount of customs duty he paid. The relevant portion of the

order that makes reference to the statement of Raj Kumar is reproduced

below: 13. It is also not in dispute that the appellant has deposited the entire

duty amount with interest, as is clear from the following chart: 14. The only issue that arises for consideration in this appeal is

regarding imposition of penalty upon the appellant under sections 114A and 114AA of the Customs Act. C/53817/2018 15. It would, therefore, be appropriate to reproduce the relevant

portions of these two sections and they are: 16. The appellant had filed a complaint against Raj Kumar Pal before the

Station House Officer of the concerned Police Station on 11.02.2016 and

the same is reproduced below: The Customs Deptt., has issued a Show Cause
Notice No.02/2016 Dt:-18.01.2016 to us
demanding Customs duty amounting to
Rs.30,11,889/- and proposing to take further
penal action. As per the Show Cause Notice, enquires revealed
that while we handed over original invoice 19 C/53817/2018

 containing value of goods for declaration in Bill of
 Entry to be filed with Customs for assessment of
 duty, Sh. Raj Kumar Pal, frandulently prepared
 scanned copy of such invoice and declared very
 low value of import goods in the Bill of Entry filed
 and consequently paid much lower duty but he
 generated a separate Bill of Entry and claimed
 Customs duty and other charges from us on the
 basis of copy of Bill of Entry delivered to us along
 with his bill which was paid by us. Sh. Raj Kumar
 Pal as per his statement Dated 06.11.2015
 referred in the Show Cause Notice has admitted
 to generation of duplicate Bill of Entry, frandulent
 use of Bank Stamp on TR-6 Challans delivered to
 us to claim higher amount from us and also the
 stamp of Superintendent Customs on the forged
 Bill of Entry. In the process Sh. Raj Kumar Pal has not only
 fraudulently charged excess amount of duty of Customs
 amounting to Rs. 30,11,889/- on the basis of forged Bill
 of Entry and TR- 6 Challans but also caused damage to
 our reputation before Customs and has also made us
 liable to penalties and other legal action by customs.

 You are accordingly requested to file on FIR and take
 action against Sh. Raj Kumar Pal as provided under Cr
 PC and any other law in force for the crime of fraud and
 recovery of the amount defrauded. The appellant have
 to deposit the amount of duty demanded with interest
 and has deposited Rs. 25 Lakhs already and shall have
 to pay the balance with interest." (emphasis supplied) 17. The Commissioner has expressed concerns in the impugned order as

to why Raj Kumar Pal had appeared before the authorities after he had

substantially defrauded the appellant and as to why the appellant lodged a

police complaint instead of a First Information Report and as to why the

appellant had not instituted a civil suit against Raj Kumar Pal for recovery

of the amount. The Commissioner, for these reasons, concluded that the 20 C/53817/2018

appellant had deliberately and in a very systematic and planned manner

arranged to submit doctored and forged documents to evade payment of

customs duties and Raj Kumar Pal was a dummy planted by the appellant.

It is for this reason that the Commissioner imposed penalties upon the

appellant under sections 114A and 114AA of the Customs Act. 18. Such a finding has been recorded by the Commissioner on the basis

of conjectures and surmises. There is nothing on record to indicate that

the appellant and Raj Kumar Pal had colluded. The fact that the appellant

had paid the correct amount of duty to Raj Kumar Pal through banking

channels does not support the finding recorded by the Commissioner. Raj

Kumar Pal clearly stated in his statement before the customs authorities

that he had received the correct amount from the appellant but for his

own gains he paid a reduced amount. The appellant has deposited the

differential amount of duty with interest. 19. Section 114A of the Customs Act provides that where the duty has

been short paid for reason of collusion or any willful statement or

suppression of facts, the person who is liable to pay duty shall be liable to

pay the penalty equal to the duty. 20. In the absence of any collusion or any willful mis-statement or

suppression of facts by the appellant, penalty under section 114A could

not have been imposed upon the appellant. 21. Penalty under section 114AA of the Customs Act is imposed if a

person knowingly makes, signs or uses or causes to be made, signed or

used, any declaration is false or incorrect in any material particular, in the

transaction of any business for the purposes of the Customs Act , shall be

liable to a penalty not exceeding five times the value of goods. 21 C/53817/2018 22. The appellant had not submitted any Bills of Entry. They were

submitted by Raj Kumar Pal. The appellant also had no knowledge that

any incorrect statement was made by Raj Kumar Pal. Penalty could not

have been imposed upon the appellant under section 114AA of the

Customs Act. 23. It is not in dispute that the appellant had deposited the entire

amount of duty with interest. This fact has also been noted by the

Commissioner, but this amount has not been appropriated. This amount

is, therefore, required to be appropriated against the demand of duty that

has been confirmed. 24. The impugned order dated 29.08.2018 passed by the Commissioner

to the extent it imposes penalty upon the appellant under sections 114A and 114AA of the Customs Act is, therefore, liable to be set aside and is

set aside. The amount already deposited by the appellant shall be

appropriated towards the demand of duty that has been confirmed. The

appeal is, accordingly, allowed to the extent indicated above. (Order Pronounced on 29.01.2025)

 (JUSTICE DILIP GUPTA)
 PRESIDENT

 (P. V. SUBBA RAO)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)

Diksha, Shreya