Prathiba M. Singh, J. I.A. 17221/2015 (u7/O VII, R.11), I.A. 17220/2015 (u/O VII, R.10) & I.A.
23496/2014 (u/O VII, R.11 on behalf of Defendant No. 7) 1. The Plaintiff has filed the present suit seeking permanent injunction
restraining infringement of trademark, passing off, damages, etc. in respect
of the trademark 'Burger King‟ and 'Hungry Jack‟s‟ both as a trademark as
also part of their corporate names. All the Defendants are based out of
Mumbai, Maharashtra. The Plaintiff is a U.S. based company. The
Defendants have filed the above application seeking rejection of the plaint
on the ground of lack of cause of action and lack of territorial jurisdiction. 2. The jurisdiction paragraph in the plaint reads as under: 3. The grounds taken by the Defendant No.7 in I.A. 23496/2014 seeking
rejection of the plaint are: 4. The grounds taken by the Defendants Nos. 1, 2, 3 & 5 in I.A.
17720/2015, seeking return of the plaint are: 5. Defendant No.6 in I.A. 17721/2015, seeking rejection of the plaint,
makes averments similar to the averments made by the Defendants No.1, 2,
3 and 5. Thus, the broad objections raised in this application relate to lack of
cause of action and lack of territorial jurisdiction. 6. Ld. counsels for the parties have addressed their submissions on these
applications. It is submitted by Mr. Amarjit Singh Ld. Counsel, who
addressed arguments on behalf of all the Defendants that a reading of the
plaint clearly shows that there is no cause of action in Delhi. The Plaintiff
having invoked the cause of action on the basis of Section 134 (2) of the
Trade Mark Act, 1999 (hereinafter, „TM Act‟), as per the settled law as laid
down in Indian Performing Rights Society Ltd. v. Sanjay Dalia 2015 (63)
PTC 1 (hereinafter, „IPRS v. Sanjay Dalia‟), followed by Ultra Home
Construction Pvt. Ltd. v. Purshottam Kumar Chaubey and others 227
(2016) DLT 320 (DB) (hereinafter, „Ultra Home‟), this Court does not have
the jurisdiction to try the present suit. It was also submitted by Mr. Singh
that for invoking jurisdiction even under Section 20 of the CPC, there has to
be a strong and credible apprehension. The website www.rasresorts.com is a
completely different business of the Defendants which permits online
reservation but the said company i.e. Defendant No.7 has no connection
whatsoever with the use of the mark 'Burger King‟. It is also submitted that
subsequent events, after the filing of the suit, cannot be taken into
consideration to hold that the Court has jurisdiction. Ld. Counsel also
submits that the issue of jurisdiction in the present case is not a mixed
question of fact and law as there are no allegations of clandestine or
surreptitious sale by the Defendants. 7. On the other hand, Mr. Pravin Anand Ld. Counsel appearing for the CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 4 of 21 Plaintiff, submits that all the Defendants are connected with each other.
Defendant No.7 has a website which is interactive. The website of
Defendant No.5 which is registered in the name of Defendant No.3 lists
Defendant No.7 as its property, and uses the impugned mark 'Burger King‟.
Ld. Counsel further submits that the Defendants are expanding their
operations into Delhi as is clear from the various documents placed on
record and the apprehensions are not just imminent but in fact real. Thus,
this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the present suit. He further submits
that the business of Defendant No.7 is intricately linked with the other
Defendants and hence there exists a valid cause of action against the
Defendants. 8. Jurisdiction of this Court, has been invoked by the Plaintiff not just on
the basis of Section 134 of the TM Act, but also on the basis of Section 20 CPC. Plaintiff has also prayed for damages in the present suit and thus Section 19 CPC would also be relevant. 9. The first and foremost issue is the relationship between the various
parties. The relationship between the parties as pleaded in the plaint is not
seriously disputed by the Defendants. Para 26 of the plaint captures the
relationship between the various parties and is set out below: Ltd. is a company having its registered address at
 99/C, Rosewood Chambers, Tulsiwadi, Tardeo,
 Mumbai - 400 034, Maharashtra. (ii) Defendant No. 6 viz. Hungry Jacks Fast Food Pvt.
 Ltd. is a company having its registered address at
 99/C, Rosewood Chambers, Tulsiwadi, Tardeo,
 Mumbai - 400 034, Maharashtra. (iii) Defendant No. 7 viz. Ras Resorts and Apart Hotels
 Pvt. Ltd. is a company having its registered address at
 99/C, Rosewood Chambers, Tulsiwadi, Tardeo,
 Mumbai - 400 034, Maharashtra. (iv) Defendant No. 1 is a director of Defendant No. 7
 and Defendant No. 5. (v) Defendant No. 2 is an executive director of
 Defendant No. 7 and a director of Defendant No. 5 and
 Defendant No. 6. (vi) Defendant No. 3 is the managing director of
 Defendant No. 7 and is also a director of Defendant
 No. 5 and Defendant No. 6. (vii) Defendant No. 4 is a director of Defendant No. 6
 It is verily believed that Defendant Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4
 are related however the exact constitution of the
 Defendants would be known only after discovery in the
 present proceedings. The Plaintiff reserves its right to
 amend the plaint if necessitated after discovery." 10. In I.A.23496/2014, it is admitted that Defendant Nos.1, 2, and 3 are
common Directors in the companies i.e. Defendant Nos.5, 6, and 7. It is also
not disputed that Defendant No.4 is a Director of Defendant No.6. Thus, it is
also clear that the company Ras Resorts and Apart Hotels Pvt. Ltd. i.e.
Defendant No.7 is promoted by the same person as that of Defendant No.5
and Defendant No.6 - „Burger King Restaurant‟ and 'Hungry Jack‟s Fast
Food Pvt. Ltd. The Defendants have registered the domain name
"theburgerking.in" which was created on 9th July, 2014 and is registered in the
name of Defendant No.3. The organization which owns the said domain name
is shown as 'the Burger King‟ and the contact details are also of Defendant
No.3. The WHOIS search reveals that the said domain name was registered on
7th September, 2014. A printout of the website has been placed on record and
the same also provides for a franchise form i.e. people can fill up the CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 6 of 21 form and ask for being a franchisee of the Defendants - Burger King. What
is interesting is that the website extracts of theburgerking.in claims as under: 11. Along with the above text, the logo of Ras Resorts and Apart Hotels
Pvt. Ltd. appears and in the list of "Coming Soon" and "Street Cart
Locations", Delhi is clearly mentioned. Any person wanting to set up a
street cart with the name Burger King can apply on this form to the
Defendants. Thus, the Defendants are actually promoting their business and
using the mark Burger King within the jurisdiction of this Court. It would be
too stringent a test to hold that unless and until an outlet is set up, there CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 7 of 21 would be no jurisdiction. In this day and age of e-commerce and online
businesses, the Defendants' conduct of seeking franchise queries in Delhi
would itself confer jurisdiction of this Court under Section 20 of the CPC. 12. The Plaintiff's averment that there is a credible and imminent threat
of the Defendants launching the Burger King carts and outlets in Delhi is
also proved to be more than credible in view of the various agreements filed
by the Defendants themselves. In fact, an article appearing in the Business
Digest Magazine on 30th July, 2014 titled "BURGER KING RESTAURANTS
PLANS EXPANSION IN INDIA" quotes the Defendant No.3 as having plans
to expand all across the country and also going international. Even in the
memorandum and Article of Association, Defendant No.6 claims that it
intends to establish branches, offices and agencies anywhere in India or
outside India. 13. The Defendants have also filed a counter claim in the present suit
claiming that his Court has the jurisdiction as under: 14. In a reply affidavit filed on behalf of Defendant No.3 dated 10 th April,
2015, in response to the affidavit of the Plaintiff, the Defendant No.3 states
categorically as under: 15. Along with the affidavit dated 10th April, 2015, several documents
have been placed on record. These documents show that franchisee requests
have been made from various persons in New Delhi including Madangiri,
Okhla Industrial Area, Delhi, Naraina, Hauz Khas, Adarsh Nagar, South
Extension, Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka and adjoining regions. These documents
filed by the Defendants themselves go to show, beyond any doubt that the
Defendants are actively promoting and intending to expand their business in
Delhi. 16. The judgments relied upon by the Defendants i.e. IPRS v. Sanjay
Dalia (supra) and Ultra Home (supra) deal with a situation where CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 9 of 21 jurisdiction is claimed only on the basis of Section 134 of the TM Act and Section 62 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter, „ Copyright Act ‟). In
IPRS v. Sanjay Dalia (supra), the Supreme Court was considering a case
where the Plaintiff had filed a suit before the Delhi High Court, invoking
Section 134 of the TM Act, on the ground that it had a branch office in
Delhi. The Supreme Court in the said judgment observed that Section 62 of
the Copyright Act and Section 134 of the TM Act provided an additional
forum. Paragraphs 12 and 13 of the said judgment are relevant and are set
out herein below: 17. A perusal of the above paragraphs clearly shows that insofar as the
explanation to Section 20 is concerned, the same relates to Section 20(a) .
The Supreme Court categorically observes that Section 20 enables the
Plaintiff to file a suit where the cause of action arises under Section 20(c) .
The remainder of the judgment in IPRS v. Sanjay Dalia (supra) primarily CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 11 of 21 deals with and interprets the manner in which Section 134 of the TM Act
and Section 62 of the Copyright Act can be invoked, but does not dilute the
principle of Section 20(c) of the CPC in any manner whatsoever. Even the
Division Bench judgment of this Court in Ultra Home (supra) while
interpreting Section 134 of the TM Act and Section 62(2) of the Copyright
Act has laid down various tests. However, what is interesting is the
observation of the Division Bench in Ultra Home (supra) is as under: 18. Thus, the provisions of Section 134 of the TM Act and Section 62 of
the Copyright Act are in addition to and not in exclusion of Section 20 of the
CPC. If the Plaintiff can make out a cause of action within the territorial
jurisdiction of this Court under Section 20 , no reference needs to be made to
Section 134. 19. What constitutes cause of action in the context of a suit alleging
violation of rights in a trade mark, would therefore be the question. In a case CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 13 of 21 involving trade mark infringement, infringement happens when a person
"uses in the course of trade" any mark without the owner's consent. Thus,
use of a mark is the cause of action in an infringement as also in a passing
off action. If use takes place in a territory where the suit is filed, that Court
has the jurisdiction to entertain the suit. When there is use of a mark, there is
a cause of action to sue, where the use takes place. it is relevant to point out
that "use" of a trademark as per Section 2(2) (c) of the TM Act is as under: 20. This provision stipulates that use of a mark in relation to goods could
be either in any physical or in any other relation whatsoever to such goods.
In Kerly's Law of Trade Mark and Trade Names,1 "use" of a mark is
meant to include the following: 21. Thus, jurisdiction of a Court in a trade mark action, could be invoked
where there is use upon or in relation to goods. The phrase `in relation to‟
has been interpreted to include advertising, promotion, publicity, etc. Thus,
in addition to actual sale of goods and providing services, if a person
advertises his or her business under the mark in a territory, promotes his or
her business under the mark in a territory or for example invites franchisee
queries from a particular territory, sources goods from a particular territory,
manufactures goods in a particular territory, assembles goods in a particular
territory, undertakes printing of packaging in a particular territory, exports
goods from a particular territory, it would constitute `use of a mark'. 22. This scheme of the TM Act is amply clear from a reading of Sections
28 and 29 as also Section 56 . Under Section 28 , the rights conferred are the
exclusive right to use of a mark. Under Section 29 , use of a mark could be
any form of use, including -  as part of a trade name or a corporate name or name of a business
 concern [ Section 29(5) ]
  use by affixing it to products/services [ Section 29(6)(b) ];
  use by affixing it to packaging [ Section 29(6)(b) ];
  use by offering goods/services for sale;  use for the purpose of import or export[ Section 29(6)(c) ];
  use on business papers [ Section 29(6)(d) ];  use in comparative advertising which is detrimental to distinctive
 character or repute of the mark [ Section 29(4) ]
  use in advertising [ Section 29(7) ].  Applying a mark in a territory for purposes of export of
 goods/services [ Section 56(1) ]
  Use by which a trade connection is created between the user and the
 proprietor [ Section 56 (2) ]. 23. Thus, when Section 20 of the CPC provides that a suit could be filed
in any place where the cause of action arises, in a suit involving rights in a
trademark, cause of action arises in each and every place where there is any
form of use of the said mark. Principles which apply to infringement, actions
to determine 'use‟ would equally apply to passing off actions. 24. Applying the above test to the facts of the present case, the
Defendants have used the mark in the following manner: 25. For all these reasons, jurisdiction under Section 20 of the CPC is
clearly vested in this Court. In Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah & CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 16 of 21 Ors AIR 2002 SC 275, the Supreme Court categorically observes that
passing off is not to be determined on the basis of the facts as they exist on
the date of the filing of the suit, but keeping in mind the future expansion of
a business. The relevant portion of the Supreme Court's observation is set
out herein below: 26. It is clear from the above extract and the dictum of the Supreme Court
that the concept of infringement and passing off is not fixed in time. It is
elastic in nature inasmuch as use of a mark is continuous and each and every
use constitutes a fresh cause of action. In a suit where infringement and
passing off is complained of, basing the jurisdiction, only as per the date of
the plaint would not be the correct approach. The judgment in Federal
Express Corporation v. Fedex Securities Ltd. & Ors. 2018 (74) PTC 205
(Del) (DB) would have no application as it was based on Section 134 of the
TM Act and not Section 20 CPC. Even the judgment in HSIL Ltd. v. Marvel
Ceramics & Ors. 2018 (73) PTC 77 (Del) (DB), cited by the Defendants,
also was in the context of Section 134. The Division Bench in the said case
concluded that no part of cause of action has arisen in Delhi. However, in
the present case, it is not so. 27. The Defendants in their Memorandum of Association, categorically
state as under: 28. The documents placed on record by the Defendants themselves go to
show that they have been actively entertaining franchisee requests from
Delhi. Interviews have been given by the promoters of the Defendants that
they intended to expand all over India. The Defendants have also filed a
counter claim in the present case and the matter has proceeded to trial.
Defendant No.7 is intricately linked with the business of Defendants No.1, 2
and 3. The trademark 'Burger King‟ is claimed to be a property of Ras
Resorts i.e. Defendant No.7. The mark is being promoted in Delhi. 29. For all the above reasons, this court clearly has jurisdiction to try and
entertain the present suit. The allegation of lack of cause of action is bereft
of merit. 30. The applications are dismissed. CS (OS) 919/2016 & CC(COMM) 122/2017 31. It is noticed that the Plaintiff and the Defendants have not conducted
admission/denial as per the provision of the Commercial Courts,
Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts
Act, 2015 (hereinafter, „ Commercial Courts Act ‟). The present suit is a suit
under the Commercial Courts Act as was directed on 22 nd September, 2016. A large number of documents belonging to the parties have been denied
indiscriminately. Documents which are available publicly and are verifiable
such as trademark certificates, copyright certificates from India and other
countries, as also documents issued by governmental authorities ought not to
be permitted to be denied. Such denials are completely bereft of merit and
tend to prolong the trial in a suit. The purpose of admission/denial is to deny
only those documents whose existence, genuinity or authenticity is disputed
and not to merely harass the opposite side into proving each and every
document with certified copies/original. Especially in commercial matters,
the process of admission/denial deserves to be cut short where the dispute
between the parties is very narrow. Documents such as e-mail
correspondences, legal notices, replies, internet printouts, etc. ought not to
be permitted to be denied. The practice adopted by parties to deny in general
all the documents of the opposite side has been the bane of adjudication of
civil suits. It is with this purpose that the provisions of the Commercial
Courts Act as also the recent amendments by the Delhi High Court in the
Original Sides Rules has been carried out. Admission/denial affidavits ought
to be fair, bona fide and not with an intention to prolong trials. Keeping
these provisions in mind, parties are given another opportunity to file their
affidavits of admission/denial so that triable issues can be easily identified
and struck. Any unjustified denial would be liable to be dealt with as per the
provisions of the Commercial Courts Act and Delhi High Court (Original
Side) Rules, 2018. 32. Let the affidavit of admission/denial be filed within two weeks. 33. List for marking of exhibits before the Joint Registrar on 20th
September, 2018. 34. List before Court for case management hearing on 26th October, 2018. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
AUGUST 27, 2018/Rahul CS (COMM) 919/2016 Page 21 of 21