Two writ petitions have been taken up for hearing analogously.

CAN 8384 of 2015 has also been taken up for hearing. Both the writ
 petitions relates to actions taken by the Securities and Exchange Board

of India (SEBI) for compulsory exit of Calcutta Stock Exchange (CSE). Learned Senior Advocate for the petitioners referring to the various

provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as " SEBI Act, 1992 ") has submitted that, the

power to withdraw recognition conferred upon the Central Government

or its delegate under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as " SCR Act, 1956 ") can be exercised only after

the mandatory prerequisites of Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 are

fulfilled. CSE was a recognized stock exchange. He has submitted that,

the Central Government or its delegate has to form an opinion that, it

was in the interest of trade or in public interest to initiate proceedings

for withdrawal of recognition of stock exchange. A notice stating the

grounds on which the withdrawal is proposed must be served upon the

stock exchange. Such stock exchange has to be heard before the order

of withdrawal can be issued. The order of withdrawal has to be

informed with cogent reasons. He has submitted that, any regulation

purported to be put in place for the purpose of withdrawal of

recognition of a stock exchange by SEBI has to fulfil the requirements

of Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. According to him, in the instant case,

SEBI as the delegate of the Central Government has not formed an
 opinion that it is in public interest or in the interest of trade to close

down CSE. Nothing has been disclosed on record to such effect. CSE

has not been heard prior to the order of closure of its business. Assuming that the Central Government has delegated its authority

under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 to SEBI, in the present case,

according to petitioners, SEBI has not formed an opinion that it is in

public interest or in the interest of trade that CSE should be

derecognized. SEBI has not issued any notice giving the reasons as to

why SEBI needs to derecognize CSE. Since formation of opinion in a

condition precedent for the exercise of powers under Section 5 of the

SCR Act, 1956 and the SEBI Act, 1992 , and SEBI not having disclosed

any materials on record with regard to such formation of opinion, all

steps of SEBI to derecognize CSE are, therefore, bad. SEBI has promulgated an exit policy by a circular dated May 30,

2012. Referring to such Exit Policy, learned Senior Advocate for the

petitioners has submitted that, such Exit Policy does not apply to the

CSE. The provisions in the Exit Policy do not conform with the

requirements of Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. Therefore, SEBI in

exercise of powers in terms of the Exit Policy cannot derecognize CSE

and for that matter any stock exchange. He has referred to Section

11(1) and 11(2)(j) of the SEBI Act, 1992. Without prejudice to his contention that, SEBI does not have the

requisite power to derecognize a stock exchange the learned Senior

Advocate for the petitioners has submitted that, the Exit Policy has not

been followed by SEBI in the instant case. Referring to the Securities Contracts (Regulation)(Stock Exchanges

and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as

"SECC Regulations, 2012") he has submitted that, SECC Regulations,

2012 have been claimed to be promulgated in exercise of powers

conferred under Sections 4 , 8A and 31 of the SCR Act, 1956 read with Sections 11 and 30 of the SEBI Act, 1992. He has submitted that, the

SECC Regulations, 2012 are not attracted so far as CSE is concerned.

CSE was an existing stock exchange as on the date of the promulgation

of the SECC Regulations, 2012. The SECC Regulations, 2012 had come

into effect from June 22, 2012. Chapter II of the SECC Regulations,

2012 deals with recognition of stock exchanges and clearing

corporations. Clearing corporation has been defined in Regulation

2(1)(d) . Regulation 3 of the SECC Regulations, 2012 lays down the

obligation to seek recognition. It provides that, a stock exchange which

has been recognized under the SCR Act, 1956 as on the date of

commencement of the SECC Regulations, 2012 shall be deemed to have

been recognized under the SECC Regulations, 2012. Consequently,
 since the CSE was an existing recognized stock exchange on June 20,

2012 the obligation to apply for regulation under the SECC

Regulations, 2012 in view of the first proviso to Regulation 3 under

Chapter II of the SECC Regulations, 2012 did not arise. The provisions

of Regulation 4 were also not attracted so far as CSE is concerned in

view of an existing recognition in its favour on the date of the SECC

Regulations, 2012 coming into effect. Referring to the net worth requirement laid down in Chapter III of

the SECC Regulations, 2012 it has been submitted on behalf of the

petitioners that, CSE had a continuous turnover in excess of Rs.1,000

Crores up to March 31, 2013. SEBI had issued a notice dated February

8, 2012 closing the business of the clearing house of CSE. SEBI had no

authority to close down the business of clearing house of CSE as the

provisions for making an application for approval under Regulations 3

and 4 of the SECC Regulations, 2012 were not applicable. Referring to All India Reporter 1974 Supreme Court page 175

( Narayana Sankaran Mooss v. State of Kerala & Anr. ) it has been

submitted on behalf of the petitioners that, formation of opinion is a

prerequisite for SEBI to invoke the provisions of the SCR Act, 1956 or

even the SECC Regulations, 2012. In the present case SEBI not having

formed any opinion in terms of Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956, SEBI
 should not be permitted to proceed to derecognize CSE. Referring to

2008 Volume 4 Supreme Court Cases page 144 ( Bhikhubhai

Vithlabhai Patel v. State of Gujarat & Anr. ) it has been submitted

that, any opinion of the Government to be formed is not subject to

objective test. However, there must be material based on which such

opinion could be formed. Relying upon 1978 Volume 1 Supreme

Court Cases page 405 ( Mohinder Singh Gill & Anr. v. The Chief

Election Commissioner, New Delhi & Ors. ) it has been submitted

that, the impugned action of the authorities must stand or fall on the

basis of the materials available in the order itself. The authorities

cannot be allowed to supplement such order by other materials. Learned Senior Advocate for the SEBI has submitted that, the

petitioners have filed two writ petitions. According to him, both the writ

petitions mutually destroy each other. The reliefs sought for by the

petitioners cannot be had. He has relied upon 2009 Volume 3

Calcutta high Court Notes page 549 ( Harsh Vardhan Lodha v.

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Ors. ) in support of

his contention that two writ petitions for the selfsame cause of action

are not maintainable. Learned Senior Advocate of the SEBI has submitted that, the

power of SEBI to derecognize a stock exchange is not under Section 5 of
 the SCR Act, 1956. On the contrary the source of authority lies in Section 29A of the SEBI Act, 1992. According to him, the power of SEBI

as sought to be exercised in the facts scenario of the present case have

emanated from two different sources. One is the SCR Act, 1956 and the

other is the SEBI Act, 1992 . The Exit Policy and the SECC Regulations,

2012 being delegated legislations, the approach to the Court ought to

be different when it has to decide the validity of such delegated

legislations. According to him, three conditions for challenging a

delegated legislation must be fulfilled for a successful challenge to be

sustained. It must be established that, the Act through which the

delegate traces its power is bad. Consequently, anything following out

of the parent Act is bad. Secondly, the delegated legislation does not

conform to the parent legislation. Thirdly, the delegated legislation is

contrary to a cognate Act. On delegated legislation reliance has been

placed on All India Reporter 1972 Supreme Court page 1917 ( Tata

Iron & Steel Co. v. Workmen ), All India Reporter 1981 Supreme

Court page 711 (State of Tamil Nadu v. M/s. Hind Stone), 1990

Volume 3 Supreme Court Cases page 223 ( Shri Sitaram Sugar

Company Limited & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. ) and 2007

Volume 13 Supreme Court Cases page 673 ( J.K. Industries Limited

& Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. ) in this regard. Learned Senior Advocate for the SEBI has submitted that, Section

5 of the SCR Act, 1956 is skeletal in nature. The SECC Regulations,

2012 has been promulgated to fill up the procedural aspect for

derecognition which is contemplated in the SCR Act, 1956 . The stock

market had faced unprecedented scams and market manipulations

resulting in loss of confidence of the general public in the capital

markets. In order to suggest remedial measures and to prevent future

manipulations the authorities had appointed the Bimal Jalan

Committee for such purpose. Such Committee had submitted a report.

The SECC Regulations, 2012 as well as the Exit Policy are outcomes of

such report of the Bimal Jalan Committee. CSE is guided by the SECC

Regulations, 2012. CSE was required to apply under the SECC

Regulations, 2012 for continuation of its clearing house business. It

did not do so. Consequently, SEBI was constrained to close down the

clearing house business of CSE. CSE had subsequently sought to enter

into an arrangement for the purpose of a clearing house with the

respondent no. 4. The respondent no. 4 did not agree to act as the

clearing house of CSE. A clearing house is essential for a stock

exchange to carry on the business of trading in shares. Since the CSE

does not have a clearing house duly recognized by SEBI, the question of
 CSE carrying on the business of trading in shares as a stock exchange

does not arise. Few issues have arisen in the two writ petitions for consideration.

These issues may be summarized as (i) Whether the Exit Policy of SEBI

promulgated by the Circular dated May 30, 2012 is in consonance with Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 ? (ii) Was the CSE obliged to apply for

continuance of its clearing house business in terms of the SECC

Regulations, 2012 ? (iii) Is the procedure undertaken by SEBI to close

down the clearing house business CSE vitiated by the breach of the

principles of natural justice ? (iv) In the facts of this case, is SEBI

justified in taking steps to make CSE exit the market compulsorily ? CSE is a recognized stock exchange. In 1980 the Central

Government had recognised CSE as a stock exchange under the

provisions of SCR Act, 1956 . SCR Act, 1956 provides both for recognition as well as withdrawal

of recognition of a stock exchange. Withdrawal of recognition of a stock

exchange is provided under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. Section

29A of the SCR Act, 1956 empowers the Central Government to

delegate its powers except the power under Section 30 of the SCR Act,

1956 to be exercised by SEBI or the Reserve Bank of India. Sections 5 and 29A of the SCR Act, 1956 are as follows:- By a notification dated September 13, 1994 the Central

Government in exercise of its power conferred under Section 29A of the

SCR Act, 1956 had empowered SEBI to exercise all powers exercisable

by the Central Government under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. SEBI has come into being under the provisions of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 . Under Section 11 of the SEBI

Act, 1992 lays down the functions of SEBI. Section 11 of the SEBI Act,

1992 is as follows:- Section 30 of SEBI Act, 1992 empowers SEBI to make regulations. Section 30 of the SEBI Act, 1992 is as follows:- section (1) of section 7 including quorum necessary for the
 transaction of business; (b) the terms and other conditions of service of officers
 and employees of the Board under sub-section (2) of section
 9 ; (c) the matters relating to issue of capital, transfer of
 securities and other matters incidental thereto and the
 manner in which such matters shall be disclosed by the
 companies under section 11A; (ca) The utilization of the amount credited under sub-
 section (5) of Section 11 ; (cb) The fulfilment of other conditions relating to
 collective investment scheme under sub-section (2A) of
 Section 11AA; (d) the conditions subject to which certificate of
 registration is to be issued, the amount of fee to be paid for
 certificate of registration and the manner of suspension or
 cancellation of certificate of registration under section 12 . (da) the terms determined by the Board for settlement of
 proceedings under sub-section (2) and the procedure for
 conducting of settlement proceedings under sub-section (3) of
 section 15JB; (db) any other matter which is required to be, or may
 be, specified by regulations or in respect of which provision is
 to be made by regulations." The Central Government had delegated its powers under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 to SEBI. As a delegate of the Central Government

SEBI enjoys the same powers as that of the Central Government for

withdrawal of a recognition of a stock exchange under the provisions of Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. Section 11(j) of the SEBI Act, 1992

permits the SEBI to perform such functions and exercise such power

and perform such functions as that of the Central Government under
 the SCR Act, 1956 . Under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 if the

authority under Section 5 is of the opinion that the recognition granted

to a stock exchange is in the interest of the trade or in the public

interest, be withdrawn such authority may after serving a notice on the

Governing Body of the Stock Exchange a written notice that the

authorities are considering the withdrawal of recognition for the

reasons stated in the notice and after giving an opportunity of hearing

to the Governing Body, the authority may withdraw by notification in

the official Gazette the recognition granted to the stock exchange. Therefore, under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 SEBI has to form

an opinion that the recognition granted to CSE under the provisions of SCR Act, 1956 should be withdrawn in the interest of the trade or in

the public interest. The formation of such an opinion is the first pre-

requisite for the purpose of ultimate withdrawal of the recognition of

CSE. SEBI acting under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 has

promulgated the Exit Policy. The Exit Policy notes the earlier circular

dated December 29, 2008 of SEBI in this regard. By the Exit Policy the

earlier circular stands revised/modified to the extent as appears from

the Exit Policy. Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 requires SEBI to form an
 opinion that it is in public interest or in the interest of trade to

withdraw the recognition of a recognised stock exchange. By the Exit

Policy SEBI has laid down the few grounds on which such opinion may

be formed. The Exit Policy requires a stock exchange to have a turnover

of Rs.1,000 Crores on continuous basis not to face compulsory exit.

SEBI has justified the prescription of Rs.1,000 Crores on the basis of

the recommendations of the Bimal Jalan Committee and their

experience as the market regulator. Such a prescription has not been

established to be arbitrary or capricious exercise of power by SEBI. The

Exit Policy provides that in the event of happening of the events

specified therein, SEBI would proceed with compulsory de-recognition

and exit of a stock exchange. The Exit Policy therefore lays down

criteria on the basis of which SEBI may form the requisite opinion

under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 and proceed thereunder for

withdrawal of recognition. The criteria for formation of requisite opinion

under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 laid down in the Exit Policy

cannot be said to be exhaustive. Independent of the Exit Policy in a

given case, SEBI may form the requisite opinion under Section 5 of the

SCR Act, 1956 and proceed thereunder for derecognition. The Exit

Policy relates to all stock exchanges in India. It is not with regard to

CSE alone. The Exit Policy has been issued in exercise of powers
 conferred under Sections 11(1) and 11(2)(j) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read

with Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 to protect the interest of the

investors in securities and to promote the development of and to

regulate the securities market. The Exit Policy of SEBI lays down the process of derecognition and

exit of a stock exchange. It contemplates two methods of exit. One is

voluntary and other is compulsory. It allows a stock exchange to seek a

voluntary surrender of recognition. On compulsory exit it provides that,

in the event of a stock exchange failing to achieve the prescribed

turnover of Rs.1,000 Crores on continuance basis or does not apply for

voluntary surrender of recognition and exit before the expiry of two

years from the date of Exit Policy SEBI would proceed with the

compulsory derecognition and exit of such stock exchange in terms of

the conditions as may be specified by SEBI. In the present case CSE has not applied for voluntary surrender of

recognition and exit. It has not applied for voluntary surrender within

two years from the date of the Exit Policy also. SEBI, therefore, under

the Exit Policy has proposed to make CSE exit the securities market

compulsorily. The issue therefore raised is whether SEBI can force CSE

to compulsorily exit the market and derecognize CSE. The Exit Policy prescribes a turnover of Rs.1,000 Crores to be

achieved by a stock exchange on a continuing basis. CSE has not been

able to achieve the prescribed turn over on a continuing basis in terms

of the Exit Policy. The explanation given for the failure to achieve such a

turnover by CSE is that SEBI had issued a notice dated April 3, 2013

under Section 12A of the SCR Act, 1956 regarding non-compliance of Regulation 3 of SECC Regulations, 2012 and thereby stopping the

clearing house facility of the CSE. Without the clearing house, the

business of clearance has come to a stop, thereby preventing trade of

securities at CSE. This has prevented CSE to achieve the requisite

turnover. Prior to the notice of closure CSE had sufficient volume of

business to attain the prescribed turnover. By the notice dated April 3, 2013 SEBI has invoked the provisions

of Section 12A of the SCR Act, 1956 and SECC Regulations, 2012. It

notes the contents of the letter dated March 13, 2012 of CSE seeking

an extension of deadline to continue clearing house operations. It refers

to SEBI's letter dated February 8, 2013 by which it had directed that

clearing house at CSE shall cease to undertake the activity of clearing

and settling all trades of any recognized stock exchange including CSE.

However, to facilitate a process of smooth transition SEBI had allowed

CSE to continue with the clearing house operations up to April 5, 2013.
 It has also observed that CSE had failed to apply with SEBI for

recognition of its clearing house under Regulation 4 of SECC

Regulations, 2012 within the prescribed time. It goes on to say that

SEBI was examining the formation of a clearing corporation of the

exchange itself. In the event, CSE establishes a clearing corporation in

compliance with the SECC Regulations, 2012 or is able to tie up with

another clearing corporation eligible to clear trades as per SECC

Regulations, 2012, SEBI would have no objection in permitting

recommencement of trading in CSE. Chapter II of SECC Regulations, 2012 deals with recognition of

stock exchanges and clearing corporation. CSE is under obligation

under Regulation 3 to seek recognition for operation of a clearing house

or a clearing corporation. Regulation 4 relates to the application for

such recognition. A clearing corporation has been defined in the

regulation 2(d) of the SECC Regulations, 2012. Regulations 2(d), 3 and

4 are as follows:- CSE needs a clearing house or a clearing corporation to continue

with its business. The second proviso to Regulation 3 of the SECC

Regulations, 2012 requires an existing clearing house of a recognized

stock exchange or any person who clears and settles trades of a

recognized stock exchange as on the date of the commencement of the

SECC Regulations, 2012 to make an application for such purpose. CSE

had never applied under the SECC Regulations, 2012 for permission.

Therefore, its existing clearing house on the date of coming into the
 SECC Regulations, 2012, was entitled to continue for a period of three

months from the date of commencement of SECC Regulations, 2012.

SEBI has closed down the clearing business of CSE by a letter dated

April 3, 2013 after the expiry of the prescribed period of three months

from the coming into effect of the SECC Regulations, 2012. The

regulations came into effect on June 20, 2012. Therefore, the action of

SEBI in closing down the clearing corporation business of CSE by the

letter dated April 3, 2013 cannot be faulted. The letter itself speaks of

earlier correspondence between the parties. The contention that the

SEBI was not heard prior to the issuance of such closure notice cannot

be sustained. The reasons for closure given in the letter cannot be said

to be perverse. Closure of the clearing house business of CSE is not the

derecognition of CSE itself. Notwithstanding the closure of the clearing

house business, CSE as a stock exchange continues to exit. Closure of

the clearing house business is not the withdrawal of recognition of CSE

under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956. Failure to comply with SECC

Regulations, 2012 would visit the defaulter with the consequences

specified therein. SECC Regulations, 2012 has not been demonstrated

to be excess of the SEBI Act, 1992 or the SCR Act, 1956 . It has also not

been demonstrated to be in violation of any existing law. CSE has
 suffered the consequences of its failure to comply with the SECC

Regulations, 2012. No relief can be granted to CSE on such score. With effect from April 5, 2013 CSE does not have a clearing

corporation. It has not been in a position to tie up with any other

clearing corporation. The respondent no. 4 has expressed its

unwillingness to act as a clearing house of CSE. The net result is that

as on April 5, 2013 CSE is without a clearing house. That being the

position CSE now comes under the Exit Policy for compulsory

derecognition and exit. The continued existence of a stock exchange

without a valid clearing house cannot be said to be in the interest of

trade or public interest. The Exit Policy states that SEBI shall proceed with compulsory

derecognition and exit of a stock exchange on the terms and conditions

as specified by SEBI. Therefore, the terms and conditions for

compulsory derecognition of a stock exchange is yet to be specified by

SEBI. Subsequent to April 3, 2013 the parties have been corresponding

with each other. They have also had various meetings and discussions

between them. Apparently the correspondence, meetings and

discussions did not culminate into a resolution of the issues acceptable
 to the parties. SEBI by a letter dated February 3, 2014 referring to the

earlier correspondence and the discussions as well as the various

circulars and regulations has requested CSE to take necessary steps for

voluntary exit failing which SEBI would be constrained to initiate the

process of compulsory exit in terms of the Exit Policy. As on November 3, 2014 SEBI did not want to utilize its powers

under the Exit Policy and the SCR Act, 1956 to direct a compulsory exit

of CSE. It was still providing opportunities to the CSE to either conform

to the Exit Policy of SEBI or to apply for voluntary exit. As on that date,

therefore, CSE had the option of having a recognized clearing house to

continue with its business or to apply for voluntary exit. CSE on its part

did not apply under the SECC Regulations, 2012 in respect of a

clearing house. It has not arranged any recognized clearing house to

continue with its business. It did not conform with the SECC

Regulations, 2012. It has also not applied for voluntary exit. In such circumstances SEBI as the regulator has little option than

to enforce the various provisions of law for initiating the process for

derecognition of CSE. During the pendency of the writ petition various efforts were made

for the purpose of arriving at an amicable resolution of the disputes.
 Such efforts did not culminate into an acceptable solution to the

parties. SEBI is yet to derecognize CSE. SEBI has the power to derecognize

a stock exchange including CSE under the provisions of Section 5 of the

SCR Act, 1956. As rightly pointed out by the learned Senior Advocate for the

petitioners that, Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 requires SEBI to form

an opinion that it is in interest of the trade or in public interest to

withdraw the recognition. SEBI has put into place an Exit Policy and also SECC

Regulations, 2012. Neither the Exit Policy nor the SECC Regulation,

2012 can be said to be acts beyond the jurisdiction of SEBI. The Exit

Policy and SECC Regulations, 2012 deal with all stock exchanges in

India. It is not CSE specific. SEBI is, therefore, through the Exit Policy

as also SECC Regulations, 2012 seeking to regulate the functioning of

the stock exchanges in India in public interest and in the interest of

trade. Once a stock exchange fails to comply with the Exit Policy and

SECC Regulations, 2012, it opens itself up for further proceedings by
 SEBI. Exit Policy allows SEBI to take steps to derecognize a stock

exchange that has not acted in terms of the Exit Policy. The failure of CSE to comply with the SECC Regulations, 2012 is

sufficient ground to prompt SEBI to form an opinion under Section 5 of

SCR Act, 1956 that it is public interest and in the interest of trade to

initiate the process for withdrawal of recognition of CSE. In Narayana Sankaran Mooss (supra) it has been held that,

under the provisions of Section 4 of the Electricity Act, 1910 the

Government has to consult the Board on the question of revocation of

licence. In the context of the provisions of Section 4 of the Electricity

Act, 1910 it has held that, revocation of a licence being a drastic power

and in order to prevent the abuse of such a power the conditions

precedent for the exercise of such power must be found to exist. The

order of revocation, in breach of the conditions would be void. In Bhikhubhai Vithlabhai Patel (supra) it has been held as

follows:- SEBI while proceeding to derecognize CSE would no doubt

proceeds under Section 5 of the SCR Act, 1956 and any other law

applicable. SEBI has expressed the desire to initiate the process of

derecognition by the letter dated November 3, 2004. SEBI may do so

being uninfluenced by any of the observations made herein. In the facts of this case, SEBI is required to consult any other

authority to form an opinion that it is in public interest or in the

interest of the trade to withdraw the recognition of CSE. It has

sufficient material before it to form such an opinion. In Mohinder Singh Gill & Anr. (supra) it has been held that, the

validity of an action of a statutory functionary must be judged by the

reasons mentioned in the impugned order and that it cannot be

supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavits or otherwise. In Harsh Vardhan Lodha (supra) while one writ petition was

pending a subsequent writ petition was filed suppressing the pendency

of the earlier writ petition. In such circumstances and finding that the

issue involved in the second writ petition is same with that of the issue
 involved in the earlier writ petition, the second writ petition was found

to be an abuse of judicial process. The ratio in my mind is not

applicable to the facts of this case. The petitioner here has not

suppressed the pendency of the earlier writ petition. The prayers made

in the two writ petitions may or may not stay together. That per se

would not disentitle the writ petitioner from canvassing the points in

both the writ petitions. The extent of the relief in view of the various

averments made in the two writ petitions and the prayers made therein

may be modulated in terms of the facts of the case. Such two writ

petitions by themselves do not mutually destroy each other as sought to

be contended on behalf of the SEBI. Tata Iron & Steel Co. (supra) has noted the need for delegating

subsidiary or ancillary powers to delegates to meet the increasing

complexity of modern administration. M/s. Hind Stone (supra) has

held Rule 8C of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rule, 1959

has made in exercise of power under Section 15 of the Mines and

Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957. Shri Sitaram

Sugar Company Limited & Anr. (supra) and J.K. Industries Limited

& Anr. (supra) have laid down the nature extent and scope of judicial

review of administrative action. These authorities, to my mind are not

attracted to the facts herein. In view of the discussions above, the first and the second issues

are answered in the affirmative. The third issue is answered in the

negative. The fourth issue is answered in the affirmative, in favour of

SEBI and against the CSE. W.P. No. 27340(W) of 2015, W.P. No. 31846 of 2014 and CAN

8384 of 2015 are disposed of accordingly. Interim orders stand vacated.

No order as to costs. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be

given to the parties on priority basis. [DEBANGSU BASAK, J.]

Later:-