SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Of Amit Jani &amp; Burhan Wani
DATE: 2016-07-10
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4s43hj/of_amit_jani_burhan_wani/

--- POST TEXT ---

Amit Jani is a Hindutva activist, openly disregards the Constitution of India and has broken statues of Mayawati in UP. He uses the social media to openly threaten mass violence against JNU students. He has issued several categorical videos stating that he will come with his boys and do shooutouts in the hostels and public meetings of JNU. His brother has been, in fact, arrested for planting arms in a JNU-bound bus. The arms were planted with the intention to terrorise, but no one will ever call him a terrorist. He has issued statements through media and social media, claiming that the arms have reached JNU and are in the hostels of JNU, with "their boys" (supposedly ABVP). Nothing has been done to Amit Jani. If anything, he is enjoying the close company of various UP politicians. He recently said, "Tum kitne pistol pakdoge, ghar ghar se pistol niklega". Had the Indian state dealt with him objectively, he would be facing punishment right now.

Now, Burhan Wani was a 21 yr old who loved to play cricket, but picked up arms after witnessing the atrocities committed by the army. He would flaunt his arms and hideouts on social media, but never committed any actual act of murder or attack. The state knew about him all this while, never even once bothering to attempt to speak to him or to any of his associates. Neither did the state have any political will, nor any roadmap to talk to him. At most, he would have been charged with violation of the Arms Act, had the case gone to court and been dealt with objectively. However, just before the UP elections, the state, all of a sudden, kills him. This was no encounter, because Burhan did not shoot. It was cold-blooded murder, bypassing all mechanisms of justice and law.
If both cases of these young men were treated objectively, the crimes established and their punishments wouldn't have been very different.

Burhan's killing was followed by mass mournings. 50 funerals were held for him throughout Kashmir. And the army then goes on to kill the mourners. A recent verdict by the Supreme Court has said that every killing by the army must be investigated. But unarmed people continue to be killed non-stop. The habit of the Indian state of calling every people's movement, every mass protest as "violence" does not help. In the so-called "Jat Andolan", the Haryana state was nearly burnt down. But because these protests were staged by the dominant caste men, never did we hear a word about these being "terrorist" acts or acts of "violence". It was called an "Andolan". The rest is explained by this cartoon. At times cartoons are wiser than intellectuals.

By Shehla Rashid