[Bail Appl. Nos. 9136/2021, 8499/2021]

 This is an application for anticipatory bail 2. The petitioners in these cases are accused Nos. 1,2

and 3 in Crime No. 119/2021 of North Paravoor Police Station,

Ernakulam District alleging commission of offences under

Section 420 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code . 3. The petitioners in Bail Application No. 9136/2021 are

accused Nos. 1 and 2 while the petitioner in Bail Application

No.8499/2021 is the 3rd accused. The allegation against the

petitioners is that the petitioners with the dishonest intention to

cheat the de facto complainant induced the de facto complainant

to pay an amount of Rs.1,30,500/- (Rupees One Lakh and Thirty

Thousand Five Hundred only) by giving a false promise that the

de facto complainant would get substantial weekly returns

through a dealership of an e-commerce company situated in

Malaysia. It is also alleged that relying on the false

representation made by the petitioners in these cases, the de

facto complainant had convinced several others to join the

scheme and totally an amount of Rs.23,75,000/- (Twenty Three

Lakhs and Seventy Five Thousand Only) was misappropriated by

the accused in the above manner. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners in

these cases would content that the petitioners are also victims of

the fraud played by the Malaysian Company. It is submitted by

the petitioners had also invested money. It was later known that

the business was simply an illegal money chain business and

several people had been duped of their money. The learned

counsel appearing for the petitioner in Bail Application

No.8499/2021 would submit that there are no allegations that the

petitioner (3rd accused) in that case had received any amount

from the de facto complainant. It is also pointed out that even

the de facto complainant had received commission by enrolling

other persons in this scheme and reference is made in this regard

through Annexure A6 produced along with Bail Application

No.8499/2021. It is submitted that at any rate the custodial

interrogation of the petitioners is not necessary in the matter. 5. The learned Public Prosecutor submits that huge

amounts of money were misappropriated and several people were

cheated on account of an illegal money chain business. It is

submitted that the exact role played by the petitioners in these

cases can be revealed only after thorough investigation. It is

submitted that the investigation is progressing and the grant of

anticipatory bail to the petitioners may not be conducive to the B.A.Nos .9136 and 8499/2021 4 investigation. It is submitted that the petitioners have to be

interrogated in the matter. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, I

am of the view that the petitioners can be granted anticipatory

bail making it clear that their limited custody will be available

with the prosecution for the purposes of investigation. In the

result these Bail Applications are disposed on directing that the

petitioners shall be released on bail in the event of their arrest in

connection with Crime No. 119/2021 of North Paravoor Police

Station, Ernakulam District subject to the following conditions:-