This petition is filed by the petitioners/accused

Nos.1 and 2 under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., seeking

anticipatory bail in Crime No.7/2017 of Afzalpur Police

Station, registered for the offences punishable under Sections 409 , 474 , 465 , 477A, 468 r/w Section 34 of

IPC. 2. Brief facts leading to filing of the complaint are

that, the Tahsildar of Afzalpur lodged a complaint

alleging that the Government has provided facility to the

ration card holders to link their Aadhaar numbers to

the ration card and to give their fingerprints in the

service centers to get coupons. The petitioners are

running Jai Malhar CSC Centre, Karajagi and Sahil

Communication, Karajagi, and they have been provided

with the work of Consumer Service Centre for the said 3 work. The petitioners misusing such facility have

created bogus coupons by linking their own Aadhaar

numbers with some other ration cards and crated bogus

coupons to get food grains and kerosene and thereby,

they have committed breach of trust and cheated the

government and consumers. 3. Heard the arguments of the learned counsel for

the petitioners and learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for respondent-State. 4. The main grounds urged by the learned

counsel for the petitioners are that petitioners are

innocent and they have not committed any offence

alleged against them. Petitioners are running internet

centers and they have nothing to do with the alleged

offences. He would also contend that the offences

alleged against the petitioners are not punishable with

death or imprisonment for life and the alleged incident

has taken place at fair price shop and not at the 4 internet centre. He would further contend that if the

petitioners are released on bail, they are ready to abide

by the conditions to be imposed by this Court and they

are ready to offer sureties. On these grounds, he prays

for allowing the petition. 5. On the contrary, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State

has vehemently contended that petitioners by misusing

the trust have created bogus coupons and thereby, they

have cheated the Government as well as the public. The

accused/petitioner has committed a social offence

which is considered to be very serious. He would further

contend that investigation is still under progress and at

this juncture, if the petitioners are released on bail,

there is likelihood of they being absconded and they

may not be available for trial. On these grounds, he

prays for dismissal of the petition. 6. I have perused the FIR, complaint and other

material produced along with the petition and also the

grounds urged in the bail petition. 7. On perusal of the complaint, it would indicate

that the petitioners who were running Jai Malhar CSC

Centre and Sahil Communication and to whom the

work of issuing coupons for getting kerosene and food

grains was entrusted have misused the said facility by

linking their own Aadhaar number to some other

persons' ration card. Thereby, they have committed the

alleged offences. Whether the petitioners have

committed the alleged offences or not is a matter which

has to be considered and appreciated only after

completion of investigation and the trial is held. The

offences levelled against the petitioners are not

punishable with death or imprisonment for life and

there is no question of tampering of any prosecution

documents, as they are available at any time. When the 6 accused/petitioner is having both movable and

immovable properties, there is no likelihood of he being

absconded. Therefore, I feel that if the petitioners are

released on bail by imposing some conditions it would

safeguard the interest of the prosecution and it would

meet the ends of justice. 8. For the aforementioned reasons, the petition is

allowed. The respondent-Police are hereby directed to

release the petitioners/accused Nos.1 and 2 on bail, in

the event of their arrest, for the above said offences,

subject to the following conditions:-