R.MAHADEVAN, J. “A concerted effort to preserve our heritage is a
 vital link to our cultural, educational, aesthetic,
 inspirational and economic legacies – all of the things
 that quite literally make us who we are”. (Steve Berry)

 The above lines just flashed, while penning down this order. May be

 the subject in issue is nearer to these lines. 2.Both these writ petitions have been filed as 'pro bono publico'

 to quash the order passed by the Government of Tamil Nadu in

 G.O.Ms.No.885, Home (SC) Department, dated 01.08.2018, by which

http://www.judis.nic.in 5 the investigation of the cases related to theft of idols and art facets of

 various temples now investigated by the High Court appointed Special

 Team headed by the sixth respondent in W.P.No.20392 of 2018

 pursuant to the order passed by this Court dated 21.07.2017 in

 Crl.O.P.Nos.8690 and 12060 of 2017, have been ordered to be

 investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation.

 The Background:- 3.Earlier, Crl.O.P.Nos.8690 and 12060 of 2017 were filed before

 this Court. Crl.OP.No.8690 of 2017 was filed to transfer the

 investigation pending on the file of the Joint Commissioner, HR & CE

 Department, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District to the Additional

 Director General of Police, E.O.W.-Idol Wing CID Police, Guindy,

 Chennai-32. Crl.OP.No.12060 of 2017 was filed to transfer the cases

 registered on 07.02.2017 by the Deputy Superintendent of Police one

 Mr.Ashok Natrajan in Crime No.1 of 2017 from the file of the Idol Theft

 Wing CID Chennai to the Crime Branch CID for further investigation by

 a police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police with a

 further direction to lay charge sheet within a stipulated time frame. It

 was alleged that several ancient idols, jewels, silver articles etc. of the

 temples in Thanjavur District, worth several crores of rupees have

 been stolen and smuggled by certain persons, in which some officials

 of the HR & CE Department have also been involved. Since this is a

http://www.judis.nic.in 6 serious and sensitive issue, this Court passed a detailed order on

 21.07.2017 in those Criminal Original Petitions, ordering to create a

 special camp at Tiruchirappalli headed by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, IPS,

 Inspector General of Police with other members of Idol Wing, who

 have been associated with him for the completion of the trial of the

 pending as well as under-investigation cases in the State and to

 provide necessary assistance to him. Further, the cases pending on

 the file of various Courts in the State of Tamil Nadu prosecuted by the

 Idol Wing were directed to be transferred to the file of the learned

 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Kumbakonam for effective and

 speedy disposal of the cases. This Court further ordered departmental

 proceedings to be issued against the erring officials, followed by a

 series of directions to set right the issue. It was also specifically

 ordered that the team as ordered by the Court headed by the said

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel shall continue to follow up those cases in

 addition to their present and future assignments, wherever they are

 posted. Thereafter, the idol cases were handled by the team headed

 by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel. The relevant portion of the order

 discussing the history of temples, the role of the state and the current

 state of affairs are extracted below: The form of Gods as experienced by the blessed, saints
 and the rulers were sculpted. The historical Tamil Nadu
 with most ancient temples in the country has also been
 subjected to cultural attacks like other parts of the
 country. For the past several years, a new form of attack
 is carried out by smuggling the ancient Idols. Foreigners
 and dis-believers see the Idols as antiques worth only in
 value, in terms of money, but the people of this country
 see them in the semblance of god, culture and identity. 12.The HR & CE department is the custodian of most
 of the temples and the properties including the idols
 belonging to them. It is their primary duty to protect the

http://www.judis.nic.in 8 temples and safeguard the valuable idols/antiques, which,
 this Court with great anguish, expresses that the
 department has failed to do. It is startling to find that the
 HR & CE department with all its income from major
 temples, has not been able to maintain historical temples
 and safeguard the Idols, which in market, have antique
 value based on their age. Some temples in the State have
 also been recognized by the UNESCO as heritage sites.
 Many temples constructed at least 1500 years ago or
 much before the temples recognized by UNESCO, are in
 ruins. Even the daily rituals are not performed. Some
 temples remain closed throughout the day with no one to
 even lighten the lamps. Neither the Archaeology
 Department nor the HR & CE Department has shown
 interest to identify and protect them. This has also come
 to the advantage of the miscreants, who have laid their
 hands on the Idols. 13.One more important point to be noted is that the
 department has not computerized the stock, provide
 adequate ICON Centres with surveillance to keep safe
 custody of the valuable idols in the Centre and in the
 temples. This has led to the advantage of the culprits, who
 have aided in smuggling the Idols out of the country. As
 the theft of Panchaloka idols worth crores kept on
 increasing, the Idol Wing, CID was created vide
 G.O.Ms.No.2098, Home (Police IV) Department, dated
 07.10.1983. It is saddening to note that the Idols stolen
 from the State are smuggled out of the country. A wing,
 with a first of its kind, was created to investigate and
 recover the Idols, but, the steps taken by the HR & CE

http://www.judis.nic.in 9 department to arrest the theft, are unsatisfactory. It is the
 duty of the State to protect the monuments including Idols
 and antiques of historical value. 14.Article 49 of the Constitution of India reads as
 under: 15.The Directive Principles of State Policy must be to
 protect the ancient Idols and thwart all attempts to
 damage and/or smuggle them. The smuggling of the Idols
 out of the country cannot take place if proper system is
 put into place to screen the objects. It also appears that
 the Idol wing is interacting with the respective
 departments of the Central Government only to recover
 the stolen Idols and antiques, but there seems to be no
 co-ordination between them to curb the crime. The Idols
 cannot be smuggled, unless there is a mis-declaration,
 which will warrant action by the DRI and Customs
 authorities against the Exporter, CHA, etc. This Court has
 not come across even a single case, where the persons
 involved in smuggling the Idols out of the country have
 been independently prosecuted under the Customs Act,
 1962 and the Finance Act, 1994 as the act would be per se
 constitute an independent offence under these Acts.
 Therefore, this Court is suo-motto impleading the
 Secretary to the Revenue Department, North Block, New

http://www.judis.nic.in 10 Delhi-110001 as 4th respondent in Crl.O.P.No.
 12060/2017.” 4.In the very same judgment, the following directions were

 issued: http://www.judis.nic.in 12 (vii)The impleaded 4th respondent in Crl.O.P.No.
 12060/2017 is hereby directed to submit a report, as to
 whether the packages/parcels sent out of the country, can
 be screened to prevent smuggling of Idols /antiques and
 any other preventive measures that can be taken. (viii)The Commissioner of HR & CE department must
 submit a report of number of temples under the HR & CE
 department and the list of archakars employed under
 them and assigned to each temple to the Inspector
 General of Police. If an archakar/Executive Officer is
 assigned to more than one temple to maintain the Idols,
 the report must specifically state so. (ix)... (x)If the role of the delinquent officials and others,
 are prima facie made out, necessary sanction must be
 obtained forthwith from the appropriate authority and they
 must be prosecuted. (xi) to (xii)... (xiii)The Idols kept in the tunnel at Annakarai and in
 the PWD Guest House must be moved to the nearest ICON
 Centre within two weeks, if not already moved. (xiv)The competent respondent must submit a
 report to this Court with list of Idols per ICON Centre and
 about the requirement of the additional ICON Centres. (xv)The stock of Idols maintained in the manual
 books in the State, must be computerised within a period
 of four weeks, if not already computerised. (xvi)Similarly, a list of stock of Idols in the temples
 must be computerized and the same must be reported to
 this court. http://www.judis.nic.in 13 (xvii)All temples in the State must have a strong
 room, where the Idols are kept and appropriate security
 arrangement including 24x7 video surveillance with alarm,
 must be made in consultation with the team appointed by
 this court. (xviii)The existing ICON Centres must be put under
 24x7 video surveillance with alarm, to avoid theft and to
 keep track of the Idols taken for daily poojas and festivals. (xix)The Commissioner of Archaeological
 Department, Chennai must periodically depute a team of
 officials to verify the Idols at the ICON Centers and in
 temples to identify any replacement and theft. (xx)The directions issued to all the respondents
 above must be complied in time and a compliance report
 must be filed before this Court.” 5.The above order was challenged before the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court in Special Leave to Appeal (Crl) Nos.6139-6140/2017 and the

 Hon’ble Apex Court refused to interfere with such appointment. In the

 meantime, Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S, taking up his responsibility

 as the Officer in-charge of the ‘High Court Appointed Team' continued

 his investigation and was instrumental in recovering many idols. In the

 process, he had arrested many officers who had either aided in the

 theft or in concealing the theft. The arrested include not only the

 officers from his own Police Department but also high ranked officers

 from the HR & CE Department and politically influenced persons. This

http://www.judis.nic.in 14 apparently led to the wrath of the Government in transferring a case

 relating to theft of gold in making the Moolavar idol of Palani

 Thandayudhapani on technicalities and posting him as the Inspector

 General of Police of the Railways. The actions came to be the point of

 discussion in Crl.O.P.(MD)Nos.6778 and 6779 of 2018, wherein the

 Madurai Bench of this Court directed that he should be permitted to

 continue as the Head of the Idol Wing-CID and after detailed

 discussions, G.R.Swaminathan, J. has in his order dated 26.04.2018,

 held as under: These circumstances have impelled this Court to exercise
 its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.PC. Hence,
 this Court directs that the investigation in Crime No.1 of
 2018 registered on the file of Idol Wing – CID, Chennai
 shall continue to be investigated only by the very same
 agency, namely, Idol Wing CID, Chennai under the
 supervision of Thiru.A.G.Ponn Manickavel, the Inspector
 General of Police, Railways i/c Idol Wing CID, Chennai. 6.In these circumstances, the Government of Tamil Nadu has

 passed the Government Order impugned in the present writ petitions,

 transferring all the idol theft cases being investigated by the High

 Court appointed team to the Central Bureau of Investigation.

http://www.judis.nic.in 17 The pleadings of the parties:- 7.Counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the respondents

 1, 2, 5 and 12, in which it is stated that the order of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court affirming the order passed by this Court in the above

 Criminal Original Petitions was on the limited grounds of transfer of

 the cases handled by the said Officer. It is stated that the State

 Government is under an obligation to ensure fair investigation and it

 has only discharged its duty by transferring the investigation to CBI. It

 is also stated that it is incorrect to state that the State Government

 made an allegation that the said Officer is not disclosing the details of

 the investigation to the members of the political executive. It is further

 stated that a writ petition cannot be doubled up as a criminal

 complaint as well and even assuming that the said Officer has

 gathered enough materials to nab two powerful and influential

 persons, it is strange to witness the petitioners being aware of the

 details of the said investigation. The Officer had also failed to attend

 the review meetings of Additional Director General of Police, Economic

 Offences Wing, on some pretext informing inability to attend the

 meeting at the eleventh hour, which enabled the Additional Director

 General of Police to address the Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu

 on 11.06.2018 seeking advise on the course of action and

 responsibilities and functions of the Additional Director General of

 Police, Economic Offences Wing, in monitoring and reviewing the

http://www.judis.nic.in 18 performance of the Inspector General of Police, Idol Wing. It is stated

 that there is no special reason or latent consideration and it is

 completely in pursuance of the reasoned exercise of executive powers

 on administrative matters which arose on the well considered and

 explained grounds of action. It is emphasized that there is a line of

 well recognized difference between statutory delegation of powers

 through subordinate legislation and judicial rule making, the former

 occupying the field in this consideration alone; the idol wing CID

 cannot effectively function as per the directions given by this Court in

 the Criminal Original Petitions, and the real investigative powers and

 authority is derived from the Government Order in G.O.Ms.No.2098,

 Home (Pol-IV) Department, dated 07.10.1983. Finally, it is stated in

 the counter that this Court cannot interfere in policy decisions and the

 policy discretion would accommodate wide ranging administrative

 actions on the implementation and the preferences therein, and that

 this Court cannot assume control over implementation and micro

 manage the entire process itself, since that would be without

 jurisdiction. 8.A counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the eleventh

 respondent in W.P.No.20392 of 2018, in which it is stated that the

 eleventh respondent is not in any way connected with either the order

 of the Government or the challenge of the same by the petitioner. The

http://www.judis.nic.in 19 party-in-person has impleaded the eleventh respondent as a

 respondent, with ulterior motives. It is also stated that the averments

 against the eleventh respondent in the form of innuendo is

 impermissible in a writ proceeding where the averments must also be

 supported by documentary proof. It is stated that the eleventh

 respondent has spent substantial sums of money towards renovation

 and kumbabishekam of Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple, Srirangam

 and the said monies spent, are on his own. It is stated that the

 eleventh respondent is the Chairman of the company which controls

 Sundaram-Clayton and TVS Motor companies and only in his personal

 capacity and on behalf of a Trust controlled by his family, he had so

 far undertaken and successfully completed renovation and restoration

 of over 100 temples all over Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh

 and Kerala between the years 1992 to 2017 and for the said purpose,

 he has spent substantial sums, proposing to spend much more in the

 coming years. 9.Reply affidavit has been filed by the petitioner in

 W.P.No.20392 of 2018, in which the letter of the CBI dated

 19.09.2018 addressed to its counsel has been extracted. In the said

 communication, it is stated that 'when the matter comes up for

 hearing, it may be stated that considering the large number of idol

 theft cases pending in various stages and also the future idol theft

http://www.judis.nic.in 20 cases likely to come up, and considering the severe shortage of

 manpower, CBI will extend its full cooperation and support in the

 matters of extradition of accused, issue of Red Corner Notices and

 coordinating with Interpol, etc., to the Special Investigation Team,

 which is already investigating the Idol Theft cases'. Thus, the stand of

 CBI is that they will only extend all possible help to the special team

 headed by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, according to the counter affidavit.

 It is also stated by the petitioner that the action of the Government

 transferring the investigation to CBI even when the matter is pending

 before this Court, amounts to contempt of Court. It is also stated that

 as per the impugned Government order, the case relating to Palani

 Thandayudhapani Temple was also taken away from A.G.Pon

 Manickavel, which is in violation of the order dated 26.04.2018 passed

 in Crl.OP.(MD)Nos. 6778 and 6779 of 2018. Finally, it is stated that

 while passing the said Government Order, the Government have

 stated that they need the help of CBI to investigate the cases thereby

 accepting the fact that the State Government and the State Police are

 not in a position to handle the cases effectively. 10.Similarly, a rejoinder affidavit has been filed by the petitioner

 in W.P.No.20963 of 2018, in which it is stated that what could not be

 achieved from the Hon'ble Supreme Court against the order of this

 Court dated 21.07.2017 in Crl.OP.Nos.8690 and 12060 of 2017 has

http://www.judis.nic.in 21 been achieved by simply passing the impugned Government order by

 the Government. For transferring all investigations against idol thefts,

 the phrase 'Policy Decision' is used and the said phrase has become a

 gospel word to escape from judicial scrutiny. It is further stated that in

 public mind, it is felt that investigation against higher officials and

 influential personalities who have involved in the crime, resulted in

 passing of the impugned order. In an identical case of idol theft

 referred to CBI, the CBI Court, Delhi, imposed a fine of Rs.10,000/-

 against the Director of CBI for lethargic investigation of the case by

 him for 37 years. Thus, it is stated that even the CBI has to be

 investigated with all seriousness by highly competent, professional and

 impartial agency. The submissions of the parties:- 11.Mr.Elephant G.Rajendran, an advocate and a public interest

 activist who appeared as party-in-person in W.P.No.20392 of 2018 has

 submitted that the order passed by this Court in the above Criminal

 Original Petitions has been confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 SLP(Civil)Nos.6139 to 6140 of 2017 by order dated 01.09.2017. He

 submitted that there were many attempts to derail the investigation

 by the Special Team headed by the sixth respondent, but however,

 this Court was pleased to ensure that the Court-monitored

 investigation is carried on without any interference. It is his

http://www.judis.nic.in 22 submission that the Government of Tamil Nadu wants to control the

 investigation of the cases to save the senior political persons, high

 ranking officials, police officials and highly connected and influential

 persons like the eleventh respondent. It is also submitted that the

 impugned order has been passed by the Government to avoid

 Contempt Proceedings in Crl.OP.No.12060 of 2017. The reason given

 in the impugned order for transfer of investigation is only a ruse; it is

 intended to remove the sixth respondent and to prevent him from

 discharging his duties and to ensure that senior ministers and others

 involved in the cases are protected. He also submitted that the Police

 Officer Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel would be attaining superannuation on

 30.11.2018 and the State would decide to withdraw the impugned

 Government Order after his retirement. 12.The learned counsel for the petitioner in

 W.P.No.20963 of 2018 has submitted that the sixth respondent in

 W.P.No.20392 of 2018 is a genuine IPS officer, who has unearthed

 several grave thefts and misappropriation of gold and cash, which

 have been welcomed by the general public and judiciary. The

 influential group, which did not like him to continue the investigation,

 has gone to the extent of approaching the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 against the order passed by this Court in the above Criminal Original

 Petitions directing investigation by the sixth respondent in

http://www.judis.nic.in 23 W.P.No.20392 of 2018, but however, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 upheld the order passed by this Court. In these circumstances, the

 Government had taken an ill-motivated tricky step to avoid

 investigation by the above said Police Officer, whose delegation of duty

 has been appreciated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The only

 repeated sentence found in the impugned order is that the

 Investigation Team requires pro-active involvement of various Central

 Government agencies. Of course, it is true that the cases require the

 assistance of various Central Government agencies, but without

 delegating the investigation to CBI or any agency, such investigations

 have ended in convictions. The learned counsel has referred to one

 such incident in which the accused therein, viz. Sankaralingam was

 arrested at Trivandrum Airport, while returning from Kuwait by an

 ordinary team of Tamil Nadu Police belonging to Thiruverambur Police

 Station. The learned counsel has submitted that the general public

 would lose their confidence over the investigation of idol theft cases, if

 the officer is transferred. He also submitted that he witnessed an

 interview in a television channel with the concerned Minister, who

 accused the Special Team stating that the investigating Police Officer

 should adopt a soft approach with the accused in order to recover the

 stolen idols and only then the idols could be traced. Stating so, the

 learned counsel submitted that how the Government can expect the

 said Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, Head of the Investigation Team, to be

http://www.judis.nic.in 24 very open in his findings, when he is required to deal the issue

 independently, which is very sensitive in nature. 13.With the above submissions, it has been prayed to quash the

 impugned order passed by the Government of Tamil Nadu with

 appropriate directions. 14.Reiterating the submissions made in the counter affidavit

 filed on behalf of the respondents 1, 2, 5 and 12, Mr.Vijay Narayan,

 learned Advocate General and Mr.P.H.Arvind Pandian, Additional

 Advocate General assisted by Mr.V.Jayaprakash Narayanan,

 Government Pleader, have submitted that the State Government is

 under an obligation to ensure fair investigation and it has only

 discharged its duty by transferring the investigation to CBI. It is

 submitted that no attention was paid by the said Police Officer for

 more than a year in spite of reminders for sending clarifications/

 comments on the note verbale of the Germany Foreign Office as

 requested by the Government and Ministry of Home Affairs regarding

 cases in which a foreign national was extradited and imprisoned for

 the past six years. The Police Officer had also failed to attend the

 review meetings of Additional Director General of Police, Economic

 Offences Wing, on some pretext informing inability to attend the

 meeting at the eleventh hour. They have also submitted that there is

http://www.judis.nic.in 25 no special reason for transferring the case and it is completely in

 pursuance of the reasoned exercise of executive powers on

 administrative matters which arose on the well considered and

 explained grounds of action. Stating so, they prayed for dismissing this

 writ petition. 15.Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, the sixth respondent in

 W.P.No.20392 of 2018 has submitted that after the formation of the

 Idol Wing pursuant to the orders passed by this Court, in respect of

 the period between October 2017 and October 2018, 14 cases have

 been registered and 47 accused have been arrested; 19 idols have

 been recovered including 2 idols located at NGA, Canberra. He also

 submitted that the seizure and recovery in respect of stolen idols

 made by him, is 1125. Such a commendable achievement has been

 done by the Idol Team and the same should not be under-estimated

 by way of transferring the cases to CBI. 16.Mr.G.Rajagopalan, learned Additional Solicitor General of

 India appearing for the respondents 7 and 8 has submitted that the

 CBI or the Central Government has not been consulted with regard to

 feasibility of taking up the investigation before issuing the Government

 Order and that only after receipt of the specific response from the CBI

 regarding feasibility of taking over the investigation, the matter would

http://www.judis.nic.in 26 be placed before the competent authority for a decision and a

 notification would be issued for investigation of the case by CBI. If the

 CBI is not agreeing for investigation, the request of the State would be

 rejected, according to the learned Additional Solicitor General. 17.Mr.K.Srinivasan, learned counsel for the ninth and tenth

 respondents, expressed the stand of the CBI that CBI for shortage of

 manpower and considering the number of cases, is not inclined to

 accept the investigation and that the CBI would extend its fullest

 assistance and co-operation in extradiction, Red Corner Notice, etc to

 the special team functioning now, thereby also vindicating the special

 team appointed by this court. 18.Mr.B.Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for the

 eleventh respondent in W.P.No.20392 of 2018, reiterated the

 submissions made in the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the

 eleventh respondent and submitted that the eleventh respondent is in

 no way connected or responsible for the theft of idols and he spends

 substantial sums out of his pocket, for renovation and kumbabishekam

 of various temples in the State. 19. W.M.P.No.24797 of 2018 has been filed in W.P.No.20392 of

 2018 by one K.Arut Selvan, Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Temple

 Executive Officers Federation, Chennai and one Kamaraj, to implead

http://www.judis.nic.in 27 them as the respondents in the writ petition. Mr.V.Raghavachari,

 learned counsel appearing for the petitioners in this petition has

 submitted that the proposed parties are aggrieved by the indiscreet

 action exercised by the sixth respondent seeking to harass, threaten,

 intimidate and all other acts, which are not within the scope of any

 civilised investigation. He submitted that the first petitioner in this

 petition is the Executive Officer of Arulmigu Pasupatheeswarar Temple,

 Pandhanallur. The first petitioner felt that the idols should be secured

 and safely maintained and hence, he secured a safe room with a new

 door and locking system and installed a CCTV to monitor the valuables

 and an alarm to caution the public. While so, a complaint was lodged

 against him by one Venkataraman claiming that idols were missing. A

 petition in Crl.OP.No.8690 of 2017 was also filed seeking for transfer

 of investigation to any other competent body. He further submitted

 that the said Venkataraman had moved the Court on 24.04.2017

 without even making the first petitioner as a party and certain

 allegations have been made behind his back and orders were sought

 to be secured. 20.W.M.P.No.27441 of 2018 has been filed by one R.Sudarshan,

 President of HR & CE Gazetted Officers Association, Office of the

 Commissioner, HR & CE Administration Department, Nungambakkam,

 Chennai, seeking to implead himself as a party respondent in

http://www.judis.nic.in 28 W.P.No.20392 of 2018. Mr.N.G.R.Prasad, learned counsel for the

 petitioner in this miscellaneous petition, has submitted that after the

 Government Order in G.O.Ms.No.885 dated 01.08.2018 has been

 passed, the petitioner in the writ petition has opposed transfer of the

 cases to CBI and wants the matter to be dealt with by the sixth

 respondent in the writ petition. He further submitted that the

 investigating Police Officer, Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, instead of tracking

 down the culprits behind the theft of idols, is proceeding arbitrarily

 against the innocent officers of the HR & CE Department, who are also

 keen to protect the interest of the temples. 21.W.M.P.No.24803/2018 has been filed by one

 R.Venkataraman, to implead him as one of the party respondent in

 W.P.No.20392 of 2018. He appeared in person before this Court and

 submitted that the performance of the investigating Police Officer

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel in nabbing the culprits is highly commendable

 and that G.O.Ms.No.885 dated 01.08.2018 has been passed by the

 Government only to derail the investigation being conducted by the

 said Police Officer. Apart from the prayer for impleading him as a party

 respondent in the writ petition, it has been prayed to grant stay of the

 Government Order in G.O.Ms.No.885. http://www.judis.nic.in 29 22.W.M.P.No.24797 of 2018 has been filed by two persons,

 seeking to implead them as the respondents in the writ petition, on

 the ground that they have been aggrieved by the indiscreet action

 exercised by the sixth respondent. 23.During the course of hearing, a copy of the letter issued by

 the Government of India, Department of Personnel & Training, Ministry

 of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, New Delhi, dated

 24.09.2018 addressed to the Additional Solicitor General of India, has

 been produced, in which it is stated that the CBI is consulted regarding

 feasibility of taking up the investigation. It is further stated that after

 receipt of the specific response of the CBI regarding feasibility of

 taking over the investigation, the matter would be placed before the

 competent authority for a decision and a notification would be issued

 for investigation of the case by CBI, or otherwise, the request of the

 State would be regretted. A copy of the letter issued by the

 Government of Tamil Nadu in Letter No.HSC4/255-7/2018 Home (SC)

 Department dated 15.11.2018 to the Secretary to Government of

 India, Department of Personnel & Training, Ministry of Personnel,

 Public Grievances and Pensions, New Delhi, has also been placed

 before us, wherein the State Government has enclosed the copies of

 First Information Reports and other related records, requesting to

 issue notification under Section 5 of the Delhi Special Police

http://www.judis.nic.in 30 Establishment Act, 1946 and necessary further orders for taking over

 of the cases by the CBI. 24. When the writ petition in W.P.No.20392 of 2018 was taken

 up on 07.08.2018, considering the facts and circumstances of the

 case, this Court thought it fit to grant interim stay of the impugned

 order. 25.Heard the learned counsel appearing on either side and

 perused the materials available on record carefully and meticulously.

 The Analysis:- 26.The land of Tamil Nadu has its own, rich cultural heritage. It

 has more thousands of ancient temples of which most temples are

 under the control of the HR & CE Department. Some temples date

 back to more than 1000 years. Each temple is bestowed with not only

 gold ornaments but also with idols, which are symbolized as the

 deities. The history of idol worship has been in existence from time

 immemorial. It is believed that the idols are embodiment of the

 deities. The idols, because of continuous worship by precise following

 of agamas and chanting of mantras and sacred hymns also vibrate

 positive energy. There is an old saying that one must not habitate in a

 place where is there is no temple. This method of idol worship has

http://www.judis.nic.in 31 been protected by our Constitution. The believers see their deity in the

 idols. The State of Tamil Nadu is blessed to have the most ancient

 temples in the country. The culture and the history of the State goes

 back to several centuries. This land was invaded by many to exploit

 the natural resources and to break the culture. Many temples and

 deities were destroyed and precious metals were robbed. The HR & CE

 Department is the custodian of most of the temples and the properties

 including the idols belonging to them. It is their primordial duty to

 protect the temples and safeguard the valuable idols / antiques, but

 with great anguish, this Court would only say that the Department has

 failed to do so. First of all, a proper inventory of the statues and idols

 available in all the temples in the State has to be maintained by

 computerising the same, so that any theft can be easily identified and

 tracked. In the cases on hand, it is seen that the erring officials have

 had a free hand in handling the idols. 27.Taking note of the entire situation and also the fact that

 many posts in the Idol Wing remained unfilled and no actions have

 been taken to nab the culprits and also for speedy completion of

 investigation, this Court passed the order dated 21.07.2017 in

 Crl.OP.Nos.8690 and 12060 of 2017 entrusting the investigation to

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, Inspector General of Police, to investigate into

 the idol theft cases. Many directions were issued to ensure proper

http://www.judis.nic.in 32 coordination, provision of required personnel, provision of proper

 facilities and all other aspects needed to complete the pending idol

 theft cases. It was also ordered that the said Police Officer and his

 team shall continue to follow up those cases in addition to their

 present and future assignments, wherever they are posted. Directions

 have been issued to put the ICON Centres, where the idols are kept,

 under 24x7 video surveillance with alarm to avoid theft and to keep

 track of the idols taken for daily poojas and festivals. 28.The above order has been passed taking note of the alarming

 situation in the State as regards idol theft. This Court feels that those

 directions are very much necessary in order to nab the culprits and to

 set right the issue and this Court has no second opinion over the

 same. 29.But, subsequently, the Government of Tamil Nadu has issued

 the impugned Government Order in G.O.Ms.No.885 of 2018 dated

 01.08.2018, transferring the idol theft cases to CBI. It is pertinent to

 mention here that in the order dated 21.07.2017 in Crl.O.P.Nos.8690

 and 12060 of 2017, this Court had specifically directed that a Special

 Camp under the head of Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel was to be constituted,

 though which the State did, but never complied with all the conditions.

 While so, the State cannot remove him from leading the “High Court

http://www.judis.nic.in 33 Appointed Team” without the concurrence of this Court, that too after

 the dismissal of the SLP filed by the State. 30.While so, in view of the fair and impartial investigation, which

 has led him to startling revelations and recoveries forcing him to

 enquire about various famous personalities, he again faced the wrath

 of the State and also from his superior officers, who directly or

 indirectly had been trying to sneak into the investigation. The above

 facts were placed periodically before this Court by the officer himself

 and also by the learned Additional Advocate General, which have been

 placed on record. It was submitted on behalf of the State that the

 officer is not revealing his course of action to his superior officers and

 an application was also filed before this Court to that effect. However,

 when allegations were made that he was bound to submit reports of

 course of action taken, Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel submitted before this

 Court that there has never been any insubordination and also

 furnished the copies of e-mails sent by him running to several hundred

 pages, informing about the action taken by him. He also submitted

 that the investigation report and other statements can be submitted

 only before the Court of law and only intimation can be given to the

 Additional Director General of Police. This Court finds force in his

 submission and accepts the same. As an officer appointed by this

 Court, he is liable to submit the report only to this Court. Needless to

 say that an investigating officer or his team is not expected to reveal

http://www.judis.nic.in 34 their course of action to any one until the task is completed. If such a

 procedure is adopted, it would not only defeat the free, fair and

 impartial investigation but also defeats the very purpose of

 investigation in sensitive cases. Therefore the demand of the State

 and the superior officers to disclose the names of the suspects/alleged

 offenders in pending investigation cases is not only unwarranted but

 also untenable. Such a disclosure will not only cause impediments in

 the investigation but may also facilitate the offenders to flee. All these

 demands for disclosure have arose only after impartial arrests were

 made by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S. and his team. 31.The need has arose or in other words, the Additional Director

 General of Police of the Economic Offences Wing supposes jurisdiction

 over the idol wing as it was created in 1983 under the EOW

 Department. Much water has flown subsequently, wherein the

 constitution was upgraded to be headed by a Superintendent of Police

 and later by Inspection General of Police. However, after the orders of

 this Court on 21.07.2017, the control of the Additional Director

 General of Police of the Economic Offences Wing with unfettered

 power ceased to exist. The Findings:- 32.Under the above circumstances, the Government has come

 up with the impugned Government order, whereby all the cases

http://www.judis.nic.in 35 pending and future cases have been transferred to the Central Bureau

 of Investigation. The basis to take such a decision according to the

 Government is that the investigation leads to several States and at

 times to even foreign countries, which require the assistance of the

 Central Government, to ensure free and impartial trial and reposing

 the faith of this Court in the investigation. This contention according to

 us, is not only irrational but also arbitrary for the following reasons: On 31.07.2018, a letter was addressed by the Commissioner of the

 HR & CE Department. The language and tenor of the letter would

 reflect that she was unhappy with the fact that action was taken

 against some officials of her Department; that documents were sought

 from her Department. Alleging damage to the reputation of the

 Department and instilling fear that the investigation may not be fair

 and impartial, she wanted the Director General of Police to take some

 action. The pinnacle of her grievance was the arrest of the Additional

 Commissioner, namely, Mrs.Kavitha. The letter according to this Court

 is ill-founded and more as a result of an ego clash. Reading between

 the lines, the Commissioner did not want any action to be taken

 against the erred officials of her Department. On the same day, i.e on

 31.07.2018, with the endorsement of the Director General of Police,

 the letter was forwarded to the Additional Director General of Police,

 EOW through Additional Director General of Police (L&O). Referring to

 the letter of the Commissioner and the endorsement of the Director

 General of Police and referring in the subject as team headed by the

 Tr.A.G.Pon Manickavel as Special Team appointed by this Court, a

 letter was addressed to the Director General of Police inter alia stating

http://www.judis.nic.in 38 about the apprehensions of the HR & CE Department, reports in

 newspapers regarding the opinion of this Court, non-cooperation by

 the HR & CE Department and the Government to the investigation,

 involvement of central agencies in case the idols are traced to foreign

 countries and to win the confidence of this Court and public at large,

 he has recommended for the transfer of the investigation from the

 team appointed by this Court to CBI, and by also referring to the team

 headed by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel as the Special Team appointed by

 this Court, concurred with the views of the Additional Director General

 of Police, EOW and requested for early orders of the Government,

 subject to any orders that may be necessary to be obtained from this

 Court. Though the letter is dated 31.07.2018, it was signed on

 01.08.2018 by the Director General of Police and forwarded to the

 Additional Chief Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu. On

 01.08.2018, a letter has been addressed by the Additional Chief

 Secretary to the learned Additional Advocate General in the same

 lines, agreeing with the proposal and also placing a request to the

 learned Additional Advocate General to appraise the same to this

 Court, when the cases are taken up for hearing. On the same day a

 letter dated 01.08.2018 was addressed by the learned Additional

 Advocate General stating that the information has been passed on to

 this Court, which had asked all the materials placed before this Court

 in the next hearing date. Thereafter, without furnishing the details to

http://www.judis.nic.in 39 this court the impugned G.O No 885 came to be passed on the same

 day i.e 01.08.2018, wherein all the cases investigated by the Special

 Team and all future cases were ordered to be transferred to CBI under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. This

 Court never gave permission to the Government to pass the

 Government order or in other words, without the concurrence of this

 Court, which constituted the special team, which is also referred as so

 in all the above communications, the impugned Government Order

 ought not to have been passed. This Court is of the view that the

 action of the officials involved warrants initiation of suo motu contempt

 action, but is refraining to resort to such action at present. Also, the

 reports in the media and presumptions cannot be the grounds for

 transferring the case to CBI. Also, recording that the officials and the

 Government are not co-operating, instead of requesting all the

 concerned to co-operate, a recommendation is made to the

 Government itself to transfer the case to CBI. (j) One of the reasons given in the Government order is that the

 decision is taken to win the confidence of this Court. This Court only

 appointed Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel and constituted the Special Team.

 This Court never expressed anything at any stage against the officer.

 Whileso, it is not for the four officers to take a decision to transfer the

 case, without the concurrence of this Court. It is pertinent to mention

 here that not a single allegation is made against the officer in the

http://www.judis.nic.in 40 letters addressed by the Additional Director General of Police, Director

 General of Police or the Additional Chief Secretary on 01.08.2018. This

 Court also under the circumstances referred above, is constrained to

 read the words “public at large” referred in the above letters as only

 “vested parties”. On the one hand the different wings of the

 Government cannot refuse to co-operate and on the other hand citing

 the same as a reason, the investigation cannot be transferred. (k) Though it has been contended that no attention was paid by

 the said Police Officer for more than a year in spite of reminders for

 sending clarifications / comments regarding cases in which a foreign

 national was extradited, a perusal of the letters dated 31.07.2018 and

 01.08.2018 does not even mention about the above facts. Further, it

 has been brought to the knowledge of this Court that the person

 extradited is an accused in many cases and is the master mind behind

 the idol thefts and smuggling of the same to foreign countries. (l) The primary aim of investigation is to render justice. Such an

 investigation is possible only when an authority heading the

 investigation is not only knowledgeable but also independent, fair,

 impartial and honest. It is only when the state agency is either

 incapable of investigation or when the investigation is influenced or

 tainted or biased or to ensure that justice has to be done, the question

 of transfer of investigation to CBI would arise. In the present cases,

 unable to exert any influence on the officer or his team, the files have

http://www.judis.nic.in 41 been directed to be transferred to CBI, demeaning also the character

 of CBI. Mere apprehension cannot be a ground for transfer. (m) It is only after the Notification is issued under Section 5 of

 the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, the consent of the

 State is required. Here, without even any discussion with the State

 and in violation of the orders of this Court, the impugned Government

 order has been issued and thereafter, the State is running behind the

 Central Government and the CBI for appropriate notifications. Even if

 the Government order is treated as consent under Section 6 , it

 becomes redundant in the absence of the notification of the Central

 Government and refusal by the CBI. (n) The cases are now being monitored by this Court, which is

 appraised of the developments and the action taken by the team. The

 action by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S or his team cannot be termed

 as tainted or biased. It is also pertinent to mention here that

 whenever Final Reports are filed before the Magistrate, powers under Section 178(3) Cr.PC. can also be exercised to order re-investigation.

 But, such an event has not occurred so far at the instance of the

 Magistrate, which reflects the thorough investigation carried out by the

 present team. The transfer of the cases to CBI is to be undertaken in

 rare and exceptional cases. This Court is of the view that this is not

 the appropriate case and stage for the Government to effect such

 transfer. http://www.judis.nic.in 42 (o) The State cannot resort to colourable exercise of power

 under the guise of policy decision, which is well within the scope of

 judicial review of this Court. Therefore, concurring with the contentions of the counsels

 assailing the impugned order and terming the consideration for such a

 decision as unreasonable, mala fide, irrational, arbitrary and

 transgression of the judicial orders, this Court is constrained to quash

 the impugned G.O.Ms.No.885 dated 01.08.2018 and accordingly it is

 quashed. 33.In so far as the contentions of the impleading parties, since

 this Court has already quashed the Government Order for the reasons

 stated above, the impleading petition of Mr.R.Venkataraman in

 WMP.No.24803 of 2018 is closed. Further, this Court is of the opinion

 that an accused cannot demand that an investigation must be done by

 a specific officer or agency. Also, the apprehension of the Association

 is also only on presumptions. The special team has on many occasions

 submitted that only if there is incriminating material implicating the

 accused in the offence, the accused will be secured and at all times

 after the orders of the constitution of special team was passed,

 reports have been filed before this Court. We have already expressed

 our satisfaction and faith in the investigation by the Special Team. The

 impleading application in W.M.P.No.27441 of 2018 has been filed on

http://www.judis.nic.in 43 the ground that the sixth respondent in the writ petition is proceeding

 arbitrarily against the innocent officers of the HR & CE Department,

 who are also keen to protect the interest of the temples. This writ

 petition has been filed to quash the impugned Government Order

 transferring the investigations of the Idol Theft cases from the sixth

 respondent to CBI and it is in no way connected with the challenge of

 the action exercised by the said Officer while discharging his duties,

 for which the impleading parties have some other remedy. This Court

 will always protect the interest of the every individual, as and when

 situation warrants and as such, the apprehension expressed by the

 impleading petitioners shall not be gone into in detail. Therefore, this

 Court finds it appropriate to close these impleading applications and

 accordingly, the same are closed. 34.After the arguments were heard, an affidavit was filed by

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S on 27.11.2018 alleging that based on

 frivolous and anonymous petitions, an enquiry is being conducted to

 demoralise his team investigating the idol theft cases, in which many

 VIP’s have been accused. Even earlier, during the earliest of hearings,

 when it was mentioned before this Court about such conduct of the

 Police Department, the learned Additional Advocate General fairly

 submitted that the only blemish on the part of the officer is that he

 has not submitted the reports to the Additional Director General of

http://www.judis.nic.in 44 Police and that apart there are no allegations against him. Since, the

 deliberations on an alleged enquiry continued to create apprehensions

 in the mind of the investigating team, on 25.10.2018, this Court orally

 directed that without placing the materials before this Court and

 without the concurrence of this Court, no action must be taken. As an

 affidavit was filed on 27.11.2018, again a direction in similar lines was

 issued by us on 27.11.2018 to place any materials if available before

 this Court. However, till date no such materials have been placed

 before us. Nothing is also referred to in the letters dated 01.08.2018

 of the Additional Director General of Police, EOW and the Director

 General of Police. No allegations were ever made before this Court or

 the Apex Court at any point of time. Also, it is pertinent to mention

 that no enquiry can be conducted based on anonymous petitions. Such

 enquiries would not only demoralise the investigating team but would

 also lead to opening of the pandora’s box, whenever someone wants

 to disrupt investigation. Therefore this Court is of the view that there

 exists no material documents impeaching the character and career of

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel. It is needless to say that if any materials crop

 up subsequent to our order, it can only be termed as created for the

 purpose of dislodging his credibility on personal motives. 35.Now, considering that the Government order has been

 quashed and that the State is not inclined to continue the cases, the

 CBI has categorically refused to take up the cases and expressed its

http://www.judis.nic.in 45 intention to assist the existing team; that the Central Government has

 so far remained silent, an extraordinary situation has arisen, by which,

 a vacuum has been created and this Court has to take a timely

 decision to protect the idols and treasures of the temples. Hence it has

 become just and necessary for this Court as the custodian of the Idols,

 in the role of parens patriae to exercise its jurisdiction to formulate a

 solution to bring about a continuity in the investigation and to safe

 guard the idols, which are valuable properties of this country. It has

 come to the knowledge of this Court that Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S

 in the rank of Inspector General of Police is attaining superannuation

 in the forenoon of 30.11.2018. The credibility of the officer is evident

 from the fact he has been fair and impartial in his actions. This Court

 is also satisfied with the procedure followed by him in securing the

 accused. It was also brought to the knowledge of this Court, that even

 recently, more than 250 idols were unearthed by him based on the

 information received from credible sources. Some idols were also

 recovered during transit. He has been able to keep the informants

 intact and show tremendous progress. 36.Let us for the sake of clarity reveal the statistics regarding

 the idols recovered by him during his tenure as the Inspector General

 of Police and the status before he took over: 37.The above statistics would reveal the efficiency of the officer.

 The investigation into the idol theft cases not only require the

 knowledge about the procedures but also about the modus operandi of

 the culprits. It requires continuous information at various levels and

 continuous follow up action. Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S.,

 Mr.Sundaram, Deputy Superintendent of Police and Mr.Rajaram and

 Mr.Ashok Natarajan, Additional Deputy Superintendents of Police, have

 not only been able to secure the idols and arrest the accused, but also

 instilled fears in the minds of the accused that they eventually get to

 them irrespective of the period of offence. Number of idols have been

 returned voluntarily to the High Court Appointed Team headed by

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S. Even recently, an officer in the cadre of

 Deputy Superintendent of Police was arrested for his involvement in

 suppression of the offence and his hand in helping the real culprit to

http://www.judis.nic.in 48 escape. The trial was stopped at Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel’s request in

 the midway to secure re-investigation as an innocent was framed. 38.That apart, Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S. has received

 several laurels in various judicial decisions, which are given below: With the clue of intelligence available, these efficient
 officers, vested with all skills of investigation and

http://www.judis.nic.in 50 commitment to the job entrusted with, succeeded in
 chasing and catching the real culprit. Even if there was a
 minor lapse or deviation or side-tracking in the course of
 investigation, due to the cunningness of the accused, the
 crime committed by him would have gone unnoticed. It is
 only because of the wakeful investigation by the D.S.P. and
 the S.P., the truth came to surface. Hence, they deserve all
 appreciation in this regard.” 39.In this connection, it would also be appropriate to refer to the

 observations made by the Central Administrative Tribunal, Madras

 Bench, in its order made in O.A.Nos.1483 and 1484 of 2013, dated

 02.05.2014. In paragraph-15 of the order, the Tribunal has observed

 that it has no hesitation in holding that the applicant is one of the

 outstanding officers and these facts would suggest that all is not well

 between the applicant and the then Deputy Inspector General of

 Police, who was later on promoted as Inspector General of Police. 40.The Performance Appraisal Report of Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel

 by 28 Officers shows that he has been given excellent grading by 27

 officers, except one officer who made adverse remarks, which had

 been remarked to be out of personal motives by the Central

 Administrative Tribunal and accepted by the Division Bench of this

 Court in W.P Nos.17012 & 17013 of 2014. http://www.judis.nic.in 51 41.All the above facts and the manner in which the investigation

 is taken up by Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S and his team without any

 fear, favour, partiality or bias only reposes our faith in the officer and

 his team. Therefore, under the above circumstances, we are of the

 view that Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S in the cadre of Inspector

 General of Police on his superannuation on 30.11.2018 must continue

 to head and investigate the theft cases relating to idols and the

 properties, to facilitate not only continuity but also for proper

 investigation. 42.At this juncture, we feel it relevant to refer to the

 proceedings of the Government in G.O.Ms.No.349 Home (Police-1)

 Department dated 31.05.2013, by which Mr.A.M.S.Gunaseelan, I.P.S,

 Inspector General of Police/Joint Director (SIC) Vigilance and Anti-

 Corruption has been re-employed on his superannuation on

 31.05.2013 as an officer on special duty in Directorate of Vigilance and

 Anti-Corruption with the same benefits drawn by him at the time of

 superannuation for a period of one year initially and such re-

 employment was extended every year till 31.05.2017. 43.Also, the Full Bench of this Court in the judgment in R.Sankarasubbu v. The Commissioner of Police , reported in

 2013 (1) CTC 1, discussed the power of this Court under Article 226 http://www.judis.nic.in 52 of the Constitution of India to appoint any officer or an independent

 agency to investigate and ultimately appointed Mr.R.K.Raghavan,

 Former Director of CBI to head a Special Investigation Team. The

 relevant passages and directions are extracted below: sheet is submitted, the Court is not
 empowered, in an appropriate case, to hand
 over the investigation to an independent
 agency like CBI. 61.Keeping this discussion in mind, that
 is to say, in an appropriate case, the Court is
 empowered to hand over the investigation to
 an independent agency like the CBI even
 when the charge-sheet has been submitted,
 we now deal with the facts of this case
 whether such investigation should be
 transferred to the CBI Authorities or any other
 independent agency in spite of the fact that
 the charge-sheet has been submitted in
 Court.” 36. From a close reading of the above judgment
 relied on by the learned counsel for the petitioner, it is
 crystal clear that there is no bar for the High Court to
 exercise its power under Article 226 of the Constitution or
 under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.to examine the Status
 Reports and to issue a direction to the Investigating
 Agency to investigate further or to direct a different
 agency to further investigate. The power of this Court,
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, is so wide
 and it is not either limited or restricted by any other
 provision of the Constitution. Nor can there be any such
 restriction / limitation imposed by the Code of Criminal
 Procedure . But, in course of the time, the Courts have
 evolved certain self-imposed restrictions for exercising the
 said power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.
 One such self-imposed restriction is not to entertain a Writ
 Petition, when the party aggrieved, has got an efficacious
 alternative remedy. But, it is also the law that in

http://www.judis.nic.in 54 appropriate cases, despite the availability of the
 alternative remedy, the High Courts are inclined to
 exercise the power under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India. 37. As we have seen in the above judgment, even
 after filing of Final Police Report before the jurisdictional
 Magistrate, though party aggrieved has got remedy to
 approach the jurisdictional Magistrate, there is no bar for
 the higher judiciary to examine the same and to issue a
 direction for further investigation. But in the instant case,
 as we have already pointed out, the Final Report has not
 been filed so far and, therefore, at any rate, there can be
 no bar for this Court to examine the rival submissions
 regarding the correctness of the investigation done so far
 to prima facie satisfy the conscience of this Court as to
 whether to permit the CBI to file the Final Police Report
 before the jurisdictional Magistrate or to issue any further
 direction, like a direction for further investigation by the
 CBI or by some other agency. Thus, the preliminary
 objection raised by the learned Senior Counsel for the CBI
 is rejected. ... ... ... 75.Though the prayer made in the Miscellaneous
 Petition is for nominating a retired Hon'ble Judge of this
 Court as head of the investigating team, we are of the firm
 opinion that the said course is not possible. In our
 considered view, it would be appropriate only to nominate
 an independent skilled team of Investigating Officers to
 thoroughly investigate the matter. http://www.judis.nic.in 55 76.In view of the above conclusions, (i)We hereby appoint Mr.R.K.Raghavan, former
 Director of Central Bureau of Investigation, as
 Investigating Officer of Special Investigation Team (SIT),
 to be assisted by Dr.M.Narayana Reddy, former Professor
 and Head of the Department of Forensic Medicine,
 Osmania University, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh to
 investigate this case. (ii)Mr.R.K.Raghavan, shall select his own Team of
 Officers from the Tamil Nadu State Police to be the
 members of the Special Investigating Team. (iii)We further direct the Director General of Police,
 Government of Tamil Nadu, to spare the services of those
 Police Officers, whom Mr.R.K.Raghavan, requires to be
 part of the Special Investigating Team. (iv)The Director General of Police, Government of
 Tamil Nadu, is further directed to render fullest co-
 operation and provide all assistance, including manpower
 to assist the Special Investigating Team and to provide
 vehicles and other modes of conveyance for the Special
 Investigating Team. (v)The Director, Tamil Nadu Forensic Science
 Laboratory, shall provide all assistance to the Special
 Investigating Team as and when required by them. (vi)The Home Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu,
 is directed to pay initial remuneration of Rs.1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Fifty Thousand only) to
 Mr.R.K.Raghavan and Rs.75,000/- (Rupees Seventy Five
 Thousand only) to Mr.M.Narayana Reddy within a period of
 four weeks from today. The final remuneration to be paid

http://www.judis.nic.in 56 shall be decided later. (vii)The C.B.I.is directed to hand over all the records
 and materials in their hands relating to this case to
 Mr.R.K.Raghavan, the Head of the Special Investigating
 Team forthwith. (viii)The Special Investigating Team shall take up
 the investigation from the C.B.I., thoroughly investigate
 the matter and submit a Status Report to this Court within
 a period of three months from today.” 44.The Hon’ble Supreme Court after considering various

 decisions, in the judgment in Bharathi Tamang Vs Union of India

 and others , reported in 2013 (15) SCC 578, held as follows: 45.This Court is empowered under Article 226 of the Constitution

 to pass any orders to secure the ends of justice. We have already

 expressed our anguish over the conduct of the State in handling the

 matter insensitively. The directions issued by this Court and confirmed

 by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have not been complied in full. We have

 also expressed that we are satisfied with the credentials of the

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S, Inspector General of Police and the

 steps taken by him in the process of investigation. Hence, the

 following directions are given, which shall be implemented by the

 State forthwith: (2)The members of the Special team constituted on the basis of

 the orders of this Court on 21.07.2017 shall continue to be part of

 the team and any such member as requested by

 Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S., shall be spared by the Government

 from the Tamil Nadu Police Force. (3)Mr.A.G.Pon Manickavel, I.P.S., Inspector General of Police,

 shall draw the same pay and benefits that were available to him at the

 time of his retirement for the entire tenure of his term as Special

 officer. (4)The Special Officer, hereby appointed shall investigate the

 cases thoroughly and periodically submit all the reports before the

 appropriate Court as per law and also before this Court in a sealed

 cover to enable this Court to monitor the investigation.

http://www.judis.nic.in 59 (5)The Special Officer and his team shall continue to not only

 investigate and file charge Sheets and prosecute in the pending cases

 but shall also continue to do so in the cases arising in future during his

 tenure or until further orders from this Court. (6)The CBI and other agencies of Central Government shall

 continue to give appropriate support to the Special officer and his

 team. (7)No action or enquiry against the Special officer or any

 member of his team shall be initiated except with the concurrence of

 this Court. If any materials are there to rely upon for necessary action,

 the same be placed before this court for further directions. (8)The State shall forthwith issue appropriate communications to

 concerned Departments of the State including the HR & CE

 Department to extend their fullest co-operation to the Special Team

 and furnish necessary particulars and documents sought by them. (9) The State shall create a separate Division to handle the

 financial aspects of the functioning of the team so as to ensure that no

 action is delayed for paucity of funds and separate account is to be

 created for this purpose and reasonable amount must be available to

 meet out the daily overheads. (10)All the directions issued by this Court shall be implemented

 without any delay or demur and a report shall be submitted regarding

 the action taken. http://www.judis.nic.in 60 46.With the above directions, the writ petitions are allowed.

 Consequently, other connected petitions in W.M.P.Nos.23975, 23976,

 24609 and 26868 of 2018 are closed. No costs. 47.When we are about to pronounce this order, the petitioner in

 WP.No.20392 of 2018 produced a copy of the proceedings issued by

 the Government of Tamil Nadu in Police Note No.SC/19/2018 dated

 29.11.2018 indicating that one Thiru.Abhay Kumar Singh, IPS,

 Additional Director General of Police/Chief Vigilance Officer,

 Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited, Karur has been transferred

 and posted as Additional Director General of Police, Idol Wing, CID,

 Chennai by upgrading the post of Inspector General of Police, Idol

 Wing CID. 48.We are of the view that the State all along, is not inclined to

 continue with the investigation of idol theft cases as the same were

 transferred to CBI despite pendency of the stay order of this Court. It

 is also pertinent to note that after the orders were reserved, they have

 upgraded the post of the Additional Director General of Police and

 appointed an officer, by order dated 29.11.2018, which action is

 inappropriate and it would amply prove the transfer of cases in a most

 hurried manner within a single day i.e., on 01.08.2018. Similarly, the

 manner in which the present order dated 29.11.2018 has been

http://www.judis.nic.in 61 passed, will speak for itself. Hence, notwithstanding the order dated

 29.11.2018 passed by the Government, which has become redundant,

 Tr.A.G.Pon Manickavel shall take charge as Special Officer to head the

 Idol Wing as ordered by us, in order to preserve the idols as well as

 recovery of the stolen idols to uphold the cultural heritage of this land. Post the matter for reporting compliance after six weeks. 1.The Additional Chief Secretary to Government,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Secretariat, Chennai-600 009. 2.The Secretary to Government,
 Home Department, Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Secretariat, Chennai-600 009. 3.The Secretary to Government,
 Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Secretariat, Chennai-600 009. 4.The Commissioner,
 Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department,
 Nungambakkam, Chennai-600 034. 5.The Director General of Police,
 Mylapore, Chennai-4. 6.The Secretary to Government, Government of India,
 Department of Personnel and Training,
 Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension,
 North Block, New Delhi-110 001. http://www.judis.nic.in 62 R.MAHADEVAN, J. AND
 P.D.AUDIKESAVALU, J. KM 7.The Secretary to Government,
 Department of Home Affairs,
 Government of India, New Delhi-110 001. 8.The Director,
 Central Bureau of Investigation,
 Plot No.5-B, CGO Complex,
 Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110 001. 9.The Joint Director and Head of Chennai Zone,
 Central Bureau of Investigation,
 3rd Floor, EVK Sampath Building,
 College Road, Chennai-6. 10.The Additional Director of Police,
 Economic Offences Wing,
 Chennai-32. Pre-Delivery Order made in W.P.Nos.20392 of 2018 and 20963 of 2018
 and
 W.M.P.Nos.23975, 23976, 24797,
 24803, 24609, 26868 and
 27441 of 2018

 30.11.2018

http://www.judis.nic.in