1. The petitioner incarcerated in the FIR captioned above, has come up before this
Court under Section 439 CrPC seeking bail. 2. In paragraph 29 of the bail petition, the accused declares that he has no criminal
antecedents. 3. Petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and is also
voluntarily agreeable to the condition that till the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the petitioner shall keep only one mobile number, which is mentioned in AADHAR
card, and within fifteen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The petitioner contends that the further pre-trial incarceration would
cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family. 4. The State opposes the bail. 5. The facts of the case are being extracted from para Nos. 1 to 5 of the reply dated
03.01.2024, which reads as follows:- In how many cases the nature of the land is changed after the
 notification 3A, 3-D and 3G? c) Whether the land in question has been sold or purchased after
 publication of notification no.3-A and subsequent notifications in
 pursuance to some conspiracy by the accused? The number of the sale
 deeds executed and registered immediately before and after the issuance
 of the notification/s, the market rate of the area prior to those sale deeds
 and the market rate of the area after the issuance of the notifications? d) In how many cases the applications for the change in the nature of the
 land were received, in how many cases such application were allowed
 and in how many cases the applications were not allowed? The entire
 process followed for the change of the nature of the land? e) To what extent the amount of compensation was increased on change
 of nature of the land on sale/purchase of land in question after the
 publication of notification no.3-A? f) on what basis, the amount of compensation was calculated? g) To how many persons the compensation was disbursed and at what
 rate, who purchased land after the publication of notification 3-A? h) What were the guidelines of the M.O.R.T.H regarding the aspect of
 sale/purchase of the land during the process of acquisition? i) What were the responsibilities of the CALA regarding the issue of
 sale/purchase of the land and whether CALA carried out his
 responsibilities as outlined in the M.O.R.T.H guidelines? 2 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 23-01-2024 03:29:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:008269 3 CRM-M-63180-2023 j) Whether the proper procedure was followed by CALA in determination
 of I the compensation to be paid to the land owners? k) Whether the change of the nature of land in question influenced the
 rates of compensation, if yes, then how much loss was caused by this to
 the State? l) Whether the CALA determined the rates of compensation bases on
 nature of the land and market value as on the date of notification issued
 under section 3-A of the N.H. Act 1956 or not? m) Whether the criteria followed for deciding the market value of the
 lands was based on the parameters provided by the law? 2. That, in order to comply with the directions of the Hon'ble court
 under order dated 05.04.2022, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was
 constituted. Thereafter, during the course of further investigation by the
 said SIT, new facts have been discovered regarding the gravity of offence
 committed by the accused in the said matter. After perusal of the case
 documents by the SIT, it has come to notice that Draft 3A schedule was
 prepared by the survey company Louis Berger group and same was sent
 to office of XEN PWD Hoshiarpur (Project Director). Thereafter the same
 draft 3A Schedule was further sent to the office of co-accused Anand
 Sagar Sharma who was the then SDM-cum- CALA Hoshiarpur by XEN PWD
 Hoshiarpur vide office letter no. 903 dated 19-01-2015 for verification of
 khasras. It is pertinent to mention here that the accused Anand Sagar
 Sharma the then SDM-cum-CALA Hoshiarpur intentionally and with mala
 fide kept the said Draft 3A schedule pending in his office for about four
 months and fraudulently changed the khasra numbers of five villages
 namely Khwaspur/Piplanwala, Dagana Kalan, Dagana Khurd,
 Hardokhanpur and Bassijana in the 3A schedule. By doing this he illegally
 created a new road alignment falling in the above mentioned five
 villages. That, in order to prove this illegal road alignment, the present SIT
 compared both the draft 3A schedule prepared by Louis burger company
 and 3A schedule prepared by the accused and then SDM cum CALA
 Anand Sagar Sharma along with mentioned khasra numbers in both and
 map showing the road alignments through concerned Revenue officials.
 (Copy of the comparison report and map attached herewith as annexure- 1). 3. That after the creation of new road alignment in the above mentioned
 five villages the accused Anand Sagar Sharma the then SDM-cum-CALA
 Hoshiarpur involved his near and close persons namely Harpinder Singh
 etc. That accused Harpinder Singh started purchasing the agricultural
 land in villages Khawaspur and Hardokhanpur in is own name and in the
 name of his family members/relatives/close associates. Thereafter, in
 connivance and conspiracy with accused Anand sagar sharma, the
 accused Harpinder Singh and 20 other accused mentioned in this FIR
 received compensation on colony/residential rates, which is totally unfair
 and illegal in the eyes of law. It is worth while to mention here that the
 present SIT while during the course of investigation obtained reports
 from the concerned departments to verify and investigate the facts as
 following: 4 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 23-01-2024 03:29:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:008269 5 CRM-M-63180-2023
Bench of this Court vide order dated 09.08.2017 passed in CRM-M-9452-2017.
Petitioner's counsel further submits that the State never challenged the anticipatory bail
granted to Anand Sagar Sharma which shows that so many police officials and other
officials were hand in glove with Anand Sagar and made other efforts to protect him.
The petitioner who had hardly any role, was arrested and he is in custody for more than
02 months now. 7. State opposes the bail and refers to the petitioner's role as mentioned in para 6 of
the affidavit dated 03.01.2024, which reads as under:- 8. It remains undisputed that Co-ordinate Bench of this Court had granted
anticipatory bail to Anand Sagar Sharma, who was principal accused and the State did
not take any step to challenge the said bail order. It can also not be disputed that all this
scam was handiwork of Anand Sagar Sharma who siphoned the funds through his
relatives and laundered the same through his friends. A massive scam had taken place
but the concerned government officials buried it under the carpet obviously because of
the influence exercised by Anand Sagar Sharma, may be through his post or through his
money. Be that as it may, petitioner is entitled to bail not only on the ground that main
accused has been granted anticipatory bail but also on the ground that his role was
much less to Anand Sagar Sharma. 9. As per paragraph 7 of the reply, the petitioner was arrested on 18-11-2023 and is
in custody since then. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody,
coupled with the primafacie analysis of the nature of allegations, and the other factors
peculiar to this case, there would be no justifiability for further pre-trial incarceration at
this stage, subject to the compliance of terms and conditions mentioned in this order. 10. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds,
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic offences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the offences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the 5 5 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 23-01-2024 03:29:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:008269 6 CRM-M-63180-2023
 economy of the country. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the investigating agency has already completed
 investigation and the charge sheet is already filed before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further investigation. We are of
 the view that the appellants are entitled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent conditions in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 11. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with
evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care
of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ),2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Constitutional Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restrictive
conditions. 12. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and conditions, which shall be over and above and
irrespective of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 13. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponential growth in technology and artificial
 intelligence has transformed identification techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recognition are incredibly
 sophisticated and pervasive. Impersonation, as we know it
 traditionally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an officer believes that the
 accused might be a flight risk or has a history of fleeing from
 justice, then in such cases, appropriate conditions can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolution has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponential and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only fitting that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alternative options. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 14. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on bail in the FIR captioned above, in the following terms: OR (b). Petitioner to hand over to the concerned court a fixed deposit for Rs.
 Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automatic renewal
 of the principal and the interest reverting to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said fixed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the petitioner to prepare an account payee demand draft
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds until the case's closure or
 discharged by substitution, or up to the expiry of the period mentioned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the entire amount of fixed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The petitioner is to also execute a bond for attendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presentation of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declarations made in
 the bail petition and all other stipulations, terms, and conditions of section 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the
 following personal identification details: 15. The petitioner shall not influence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police officials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 16. Petitioner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail petition, made
before this court through counsel as reflected at the beginning of this order. If the
petitioner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the victim/complainant may file any such application for the
cancellation of bail, and the State shall file the said application. 17. The petitioner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, till the conclusion of the trial; however, this restriction is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connections or landline
numbers. The petitioner must comply with this condition within fifteen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deactivate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the petitioner,
except the one that is mentioned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that till the no objection from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
petitioner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the directions of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the petitioner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such information from the
petitioner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally entitled
by this order. This condition shall continue till the completion of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while granting bail under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2002 , Supreme
Court had directed imposition of the similar condition, which reads as follows, "(d) Both
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the time they remain on
bail and shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA, their respective mobile
numbers." 8 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 23-01-2024 03:29:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:008269 9 CRM-M-63180-2023 18. During the trial's pendency, if the petitioner repeats or commits any offence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condition as stipulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancellation of
this bail. It shall further be open for any investigating agency to bring it to the notice of
the Court seized of the subsequent application that the accused was earlier cautioned
not to indulge in criminal activities. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and after that in Section 437-A of the Cr.P.C., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of conditions. 19. The conditions mentioned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the offence and to providea sense of security
to the victim. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Petition (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail conditions imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be proportional to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
conditions must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While
doing so, conditions that would result in the deprivation of rights and liberties must be
eschewed." 20. Any Advocate for the petitioner and the Officer in whose presence the petitioner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all conditions of this bail order in any
language that the petitioner understands. 21. If the petitioner finds bail condition(s) as violating fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing difficulty due to any situation, then for modification of such term(s),
the petitioner may file a reasoned application before this Court, and after taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condition. 22. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 23. In return for the protection from incarceration, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 24. There would be no need for a certified copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. In case the attesting officer
wants to verify the authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may 9 9 of 10 ::: Downloaded on - 23-01-2024 03:29:02 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:008269 10 CRM-M-63180-2023
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. Petition allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applications, if any, stand disposed.