What’s the news: C-Edge Technologies Ltd, a prominent technology service provider for cooperative and regional rural banks in India, was hit by a ransomware attack, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) informed in a press release . The NPCI has temporarily isolated C-Edge Technologies from accessing its retail payment systems, impacting approximately 200-300 local banks.

“To prevent larger impact to the payment ecosystem, NPCI has temporarily isolated C-Edge Technologies from accessing the retail payment systems operated by NPCI. Customers of banks serviced by C-Edge will not be able to access payment systems during the period of isolation,” said the NPCI. A MediaNama source said that the systems are likely to be restored by August 1.

Meanwhile, media reports report varied impact of the temporary isolation on banks. While The Hindu reported that the measure affected only NPCI services like UPI, AePS (Aadhaar-enabled payment system), CNBC-TV claimed that customers of affected-banks could not withdraw cash at ATMs either.

Earlier UPI outage attributed to banks: In February, UPI users transacting via various apps like Google Pay, PhonePe, BHIM, etc. had complained of a UPI outage, as per a report by Mint . At the time, the NPCI had apologised for the inconvenience caused due to some internal technical issues with some banks. In June, Shaktikanta Das, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, attributed these outages to malfunctions on the banks’ end and not the NPCI. He suggested banks should ensure that their IT systems, capacities, and overall infrastructure keep pace with the growth of businesses. Further, the RBI said it intended to address UPI downtime, which has continuously been below 1 percent.

In India, UPI outages can cause considerable grief for people in their everyday life. Even in regions like Jammu & Kashmir, such outages hinder local businesses. On July 30, the J&K Bank flagged an issue with its partner network that hindered UPI/IMPS, reported Rising Kashmir . The report talked about how shopkeepers, travel agents, and even students suffered due to the outage as many could not carry out their businesses or pay their dues.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event