About 28% of complaints filed with the Reserve Bank of India’s banking ombudsman between July 2017 and June 2018 were about digital transactions and card payments, the central bank revealed in its annual report on the Banking Ombudsman Scheme . The scheme was introduced in 1995 as a forum for consumer complaints against banks and has since undergone several revisions. The RBI said that due to the increasing volume of complaints about digital payments, it was in the process of formulating a separate ombudsman for digital transactions. It said the ombudsman received 163,590 complaints in 2017-18. Issues with ATMs and debit cards accounted for 15.1% of these; credit cards 7.7%; and mobile and electronic banking – included as a category for the first time – another 5.2%.

As a first step towards setting up a separate ombudsman for complaints about digital payments, the RBI said it Consumer Education and Protection Department organised a seminar on Consumer Protection in Digital Transactions on August 30, 2018 to discuss regulatory and customer protection issues with stakeholders. Issues discussed included:

The RBI announced that a group had been set up to analyse the pattern of ATM-related complaints and identify issues that cause bottlenecks in their redressal, including the issuer and acquirer bank dynamics. The group, headed by the PNO of SBI and with representatives from NPCI, ICICI, HDFC and Corporation Bank, has submitted its report, which the RBI is examining.

The ombudsman scheme, launched in 1995, was revised for the fifth time in July 2017. Here are the salient features of latest revision:

Earlier this month the RBI announced it was planning to standardise timelines to resolve customer complaints and compensation claims across all authorised digital payments systems and said new framework would be in place by the end of June. It said the various payment systems – UPI, NEFT, IMPS – had different timelines for resolving customer complaints, which the new framework would standardize. “It is necessary to harmonise the turnaround time of resolution of customer complaints and chargebacks, and to have a compensation framework in place for the benefit of customers,” the RBI’s note read.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event