1(i) The present suit is a suit for declaration, eviction, recovery of

damages, rendition of accounts and permanent and mandatory injunctions.

Plaintiff is Sh. Amar N. Gugnani and who was the son of late Sh. Jai Gopal

Gugnani. Defendant is the brother of the plaintiff and the other son of late

Sh. Jai Gopal Gugnani. Defendant has now expired and is now being

represented by his legal heirs. CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 1 of 26 (ii) Disputes in the present suit concerns the property no.33, Uday

Park, New Delhi (suit premises). Plaintiff claims that he is the sole and

exclusive owner of the suit premises, although, the suit premises as per the

title document was in the name of the father, late Sh. Jai Gopal Gugnani. 2. In this suit on 11.08.2008 issues were framed and issue no.1

reads as under:- 3. Issues, if they are legal issues, and result in bar of any law to

the filing of the suit, then such issues under Order XIV Rule 2 of the Code of

Civil Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ) can be treated as preliminary issues. Also,

under Order VII Rule 11 CPC if the plaint is shown to have been barred by

any such law, the suit plaint can be rejected at any stage. Order XII Rule 6

CPC also entitles a court to decree the suit finally at any stage. 4. In the present case evidence of the plaintiff commenced way

back i.e around six years back on 22.09.2009, when the plaintiff filed his

evidence by way of affidavit, thereafter now even after around six years and

around 25 dates of hearings, plaintiff/PW1 has not completed his evidence,

and not only that the evidence of the plaintiff has not been completed, CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 2 of 26 plaintiff as PW1 has stepped into the witness box for his cross-examination

for three times and his cross-examination is still not complete. The cross-

examination of the plaintiff could not be completed as repeated orders

passed by this Court and the Joint Registrars of this Court show that for

around 20 dates the plaintiff has claimed his illness and illness of his wife

for not appearing in the witness box. This ground of illness is such which

existed from the year 2009 itself onwards. Plaintiff is residing in the USA. 5. This matter came up before this Court on 20.07.2015 as the

plaintiff had filed OAs challenging the Orders passed by the Joint Registrar

on 29.05.2015 by which two applications filed by the plaintiff were

dismissed. First application being for adding a witness to the list of

witnesses. The second application was for filing of additional documents.

These applications were filed after at least 20 dates when the plaintiff failed

to appear in the witness box for his cross-examination on the ground of

illness as stated above. On 20.07.2015, when the matter came up before this

Court, noticing that issue no.1 is a strictly legal issue, and hence the plaintiff

was put to notice with respect to arguments on this issue. This Order dated

20.07.2015 reads as under:- CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 3 of 26 6. Before I turn to the arguments urged on behalf of the learned

senior counsel for the plaintiff, why the issue is only a legal issue requires to

be stated because only a legal issue can be decided as a preliminary issue

and not a factual issue on which evidence is required to be led. The issue is

legal because this Court is only looking at the plaint filed by the plaintiff and

on the basis of admissions and statements made by the plaintiff in the plaint,

it is seen that actually issue no.1 can be decided against the plaintiff by

holding that the suit is barred by the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act,

1988 (in short 'the Benami Act '). Let us therefore turn firstly to the relevant

averments in the plaint which have been made by the plaintiff and which

show that the suit is barred by the Benami Act . The relevant paras of the

plaint read as under:- 7. There are other similar averments made by the plaintiff in the

plaint but the aforesaid paras are representative of the essence of the plaint. 8. It is on the basis of these averments that the reliefs are claimed

in the suit by pleading essentially that the plaintiff is the exclusive owner of

the suit premises no.33, Uday Park, New Delhi and his father in whose name

the title deeds are is only a benamidar trustee. A reading of the aforesaid

paras of the plaint which have been reproduced above shows that no doubt

the plaintiff has used the expression of the property being purchased in the

name of the father of the parties because of a fiduciary relationship and that CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 6 of 26 the father was a trustee, however, simultaneously a reading of the last lines

of paras 8 and 9 of the suit plaint shows that the plaintiff has admitted that

the ownership in the name of the father, late Sh. Jai Gopal Gugnani was

benami and since the father was only a benami owner, real ownership fell

with the plaintiff. 9. On behalf of the plaintiff, the learned senior counsel, Mr.

Raman Kapur has argued that the suit is not barred by the Benami Act ,

inasmuch as, the suit falls within the exception contained in Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act because this provision allows exception to the benami

transactions once there is a fiduciary relationship or a relationship of a

trust/trustee. It is argued that the plaintiff's father was a trustee for purchase

of the property for and on behalf of the plaintiff, and hence a fiduciary

relationship was created, and resultantly the subject suit therefore is saved

by the provision of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. Strong reliance is

placed by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiff upon the judgment of

the Supreme Court in the case of Marcel Martins Vs. M. Printer and

Others (2012) 5 SCC 342. CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 7 of 26 10. Section 4 of the Benami Act reads as under:- 11. Before I turn to the arguments urged on behalf of the plaintiff

and the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Marcel Martins (supra), I would at this stage refer to a judgment delivered by this Court in

the case of J M Kohli Vs. Madan Mohan Sahni & Anr in RFA

No.207/2012 decided on 07.05.2012. In this judgment this Court has had an

occasion to consider the intendment of the passing of the Benami Act as

reflected from Section 7 of the Benami Act. Section 7 of the Benami Act CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 8 of 26 repealed the provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts Act,

1882 (in short 'the Trusts Act ') and which provisions of the Trusts Act gave

statutory recognition and protection to the benami transactions by calling

such transactions protected by a relationship of a trust. It bears note that

benami transactions were very much legal within this country before the

passing of the Benami Act and the relationship of a benamidar to the owner

was in the nature of a trust/fiduciary relationship because it was the Trusts

Act which contained the provisions of Sections 81, 82 and 94 giving

statutory recognition to the benami ownership of the properties being in the

nature of trust. In J M Kohli 's case (supra), this Court has held that the

expression "fiduciary relationship" and a relationship of a trustee cannot be

so interpreted so as to in fact negate the Benami Act itself because all

benami transactions actually are in the nature of trust and create a fiduciary

relationship and if the expression "trustee" or "fiduciary relationship" is

interpreted liberally to even include within its fold a typical benami

transaction, then it would amount to holding that there is no Benami Act at

all. Putting in other words, since Section 7 of the Benami Act repealed

certain provisions, hence, the relationship of trust comprised in such

provisions necessarily would be excluded from the sweep of the expression

trust/fiduciary relationship found in Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 9 of 26 because what is excluded by Section 7 of the Benami Act cannot be got

included in Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. Let me at this stage refer to

the relevant paras in the judgment in the case of J M Kohli (supra) and these

paras read as under:- 8. In a way, therefore, there may be some ostensible conflict
 between the provision of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act and CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 10 of 26 Section 7 of the same Act which repeals the provisions of the Indian
 Trusts Act, 1882 , however, one has to read and interpret Section
 4(3)(b) in a manner which is in accord with the legislative intention to
 bar claims against properties held as benami. The concept of trust was
 always inbuilt once a transaction was a benami transaction as the
 benamidar was the trustee for the real owner. But in spite of the
 concept of trust being inbuilt in benami transactions, the Benami Act provided that no rights could be asserted in a benami property by the
 actual/de jure owner. Putting it differently, once Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the India
 Trusts Act, 1882 have been repealed, they cannot be brought in from
 the back door, so to say, by giving the same content contained in the
 repealed provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts Act,
 1882 to Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. If we give such an
 interpretation, the entire Benami Act will fall and it will be as if the
 same has not been enacted. Therefore, Section 4(3)(b) which provides
 that the property which is held as a trustee or in a fiduciary capacity
 must be interpreted in the sense that the trustee or a person who is
 holding the property in a fiduciary capacity has either committed a
 fraud and got the property title in his name or is in furtherance of law
 holding property in his name however in the capacity of a trustee or in
 fiduciary capacity, although the real owner is somebody else.
 Repealed Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 read
 as under:- 9. Two of the examples where the Supreme Court has held the
 property to be held as a trustee in terms of Section 4(3)(b) of the
 Benami Act are the judgments in the cases of C. Gangacharan V. C.
 Narayanan , 2000 ( 1) SCC 459 and P.V. Sankara Kurup V.
 Leelavathy Nambiar , 1994(6) SCC 68. In the case of C. Gangacharan (supra), the Supreme Court has
 held that the property was held as a trustee as per Section 4(3)(b) of
 the Benami Act, and the person in whose name the property stood
 cannot take up a plea of the bar of Benami Act , inasmuch as, actually
 the owner had given moneys for the property to be purchased under
 his name, however, the moneys were in fraud utilized to get the
 property purchased in the name of defendants in that suit. In the case
 of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra) also the obvious fraud which was
 perpetrated was that the property was to be purchased in the name of
 the plaintiff by his attorney holder and which the defendants did not
 do and instead got the property purchased directly in their name. In
 the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra), the Supreme Court was
 dealing with Section 66 of CPC as it existed before its repeal by Section 7 of the Benami Act and in the facts of the case as stated
 above it was held that the purchaser had acted in fiduciary capacity as
 an agent and consequently the bar of the Benami Act would not apply.
 In the said judgment , the Supreme Court held that when the agent was
 employed to purchase the property on behalf of his principal, however
 does so in his own name, i.e. the agent's name then upon conveyance
 or transfer of the property to the agent, he stands as a trustee for the
 principal. 10. Therefore, in certain cases where there is obvious breach of
 trust in purchasing the property in the name of a person, whereas it
 ought to have been purchased in the name of the principal or the real
 owner, Supreme Court has, to that limited extent, held that such
 actions are covered under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act and such
 transactions are not hit by the Benami Act ." 12. It need not be again said, but at the cost of repetition it bears

note that the expression "trustee" or "fiduciary relationship" cannot be

interpreted in such a manner that the definition of "benami transaction" 13. In the judgment in J M Kohli 's case (supra) certain cases

where there is a relationship of trust and fiduciary relationship, and which

cases are exempted from operation of the Benami Act and they fall under the

exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act are given in para 9 by

reference to the judgments of the Supreme Court in the cases of C.Gangacharan Vs. C. Narayanan 2000 ( 1) SCC 459 and P.V. Sankara

Kurup Vs. Leelavathy Nambiar 1994 (6) SCC 68. These Supreme Court

judgments held as to when a relationship of trustee would be covered under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act for the same not to be a benami CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 13 of 26 transaction which is barred as per Section 2(a) read with Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act. Para 9 of the judgment in J M Kohli 's case (supra)

gives the facts of these two Supreme Court judgments and hence the factual

reasons why those cases fell in the exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the

Benami Act. 14. Let me at this stage refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court

in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) and which judgment has been very

strenuously relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the plaintiff to

argue that the judgment passed by this Court in J M Kohli 's case (supra)

will not hold the field but it is the ratio in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) which will hold the field. Let us therefore examine the facts in the

case of Marcel Martins (supra), again keeping in mind, that it depends upon

the facts of each case as to whether the relationship is in the nature of a

fiduciary relationship which is exempted by Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami

Act and only which is in the nature of exception to the Benami Act . Surely Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act, and which is an exception, cannot have

an effect of in fact repealing the entire Benami Act . 15. The facts in the judgment in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) are that the suit property was in the tenancy of one Smt. Stella CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 14 of 26 Martins. The landlord of the property was the Corporation and the

Corporation took a decision to sell the tenanted properties to the occupants

of the same. Smt. Stella Martins therefore was to be given the ownership

rights in the property subject to her paying a certain amount/consideration to

the Corporation. Before the property could be transferred to Smt. Stella

Martins, Smt. Stella Martins died and therefore the right to own the property

by payment of consideration devolved upon all the legal heirs of Smt. Stella

Martins i.e her husband Sh C.F. Martins and the other children. In the facts

of the case, when all the legal heirs of Smt. Stella Martins went to the

Corporation for getting the property transferred in their joint names,

Corporation as per its policy desired that property will not be transferred in

the name of all the legal heirs of Smt. Stella Martins but will only be

transferred in the name of one person. Consequently though the amount of

sale consideration of the property was paid to the Corporation essentially by

the husband of Smt. Stella Martins and the father of all the other parties,

namely, Sh. C.F. Martins, but the title documents of the property by the

Corporation were executed in the name of only one child of Smt. Stella

Martins, namely Sh. Marcel Martins. Sh. Marcel Martins therefore claimed

that he was the sole owner of the property and the other legal heirs who filed

the suit as plaintiffs were barred from claiming the rights in the suit property CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 15 of 26 as the transaction in question as per Sh. Marcel Martins, the plaintiff, was a

benami transaction, and hence rights in the property claimed by other legal

heirs were barred by the Benami Act . In such facts, the Supreme Court by

referring to the meaning of "fiduciary relationship" as per various

dictionaries held that the transactions were not barred by the Benami Act viz

the transaction was not a benami transaction but was a breach of trust which

was a transaction of fiduciary relationship of the trust therefore covered

under the exception under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. The Supreme

Court therefore essentially held that unlike a benami transaction falling

under Section 2(a) and Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act, which is a

voluntary transaction deliberately entered into as a benami transaction, in the

facts of the case before it the transaction became 'benami' involuntarily

because of the requirement of the policy of a statutory body viz the

Corporation. But for the requirement of the Corporation to transfer the

property only in one name, the title deed would have been in the names of

all the legal heirs and in such circumstances Sh. Marcel Martins was a

trustee having fiduciary capacity falling in the exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. The relevant paragraphs of the judgment of the Supreme

Court in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) are paras 27 to 46 and which

paras read as under:- 33. Words and Phrases, Permanent Edn. (Vol. 16-A, p. 41)
 defines "fiducial relation" as under: 34. Black's Law Dictionary (7th Edn. p. 640) defines "fiduciary
 relationship" thus: 35. Stroud's Judicial Dictionary explains the expression
 "fiduciary capacity" as under: 36. Bouvier's Law Dictionary defines "fiduciary capacity" as under: 37. We may at this stage refer to a recent decision of this Court in CBSE v. Adiya Bandopadhyay:2 (2011) 8 SCC 497 wherein
 Ravindeeran, J. speaking for the Court in that case explained the
 term 'fiduciary' and 'fiduciary relationship' in the following words: If the beneficiary has entrusted anything to the fiduciary, to
 hold the thing in trust or to execute certain acts in regard to or
 with reference to the entrusted thing, the fiduciary has to act in
 confidence and is expected not to disclose the thing or
 information to any third party." CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 20 of 26 It is manifest that while the expression "fiduciary
 capacity" may not be capable of a precise definition, it implies
 a relationship that is analogous to the relationship between a
 trustee and the beneficiaries of the trust. The expression is in
 fact wider in its import for it extends to all such situations as
 place the parties in positions that are founded on confidence
 and trust on the one part and good faith on the other. 38. In determining whether a relationship is based on trust or
 confidence, relevant to determining whether they stand in a fiduciary
 capacity, the Court shall have to take into consideration the factual
 context in which the question arises for it is only in the factual
 backdrop that the existence or otherwise of a fiduciary relationship
 can be deduced in a given case. Having said that, let us turn to the
 facts of the present case once more to determine whether the
 Appellant stood in a fiduciary capacity capacity vis-à-vis the
 respondent-plaintiffs. 39. The first and foremost of the circumstance relevant to the
 question at hand is the fact that the property in question was
 tenanted by Smt Stella Martins, the mother of the parties before us. 40. It is common ground that at the time of her demise she had
 not left behind any will nor is there any other material to suggest
 that she intended that the tenancy right held by her in the suit
 property should be transferred to the Appellant to the exclusion of
 her husband, C.F Martins or her daughters, respondents in this
 appeal, or both. 41. In the ordinary course, upon the demise of the tenant, the
 tenancy rights should have as a matter of course devolved upon her
 legal heirs that would include the husband of the deceased and her
 children (parties to this appeal). Even so, the reason why the
 property was transferred in the name of the appellant was the fact
 that the Corporation desired such transfer to be made in the name of
 one individual rather than several individuals who may have
 succeeded to the tenancy rights. A specific averment to that effect
 was made by plaintiffs-respondents in para 7 of the plaint which was
 not disputed by the appellant in the written statement filed by him. It CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 21 of 26 is, therefore, reasonable to assume that transfer of rights in favour of
 the appellant was not because the others had abandoned their rights
 but because the Corporation required the transfer to be in favour of
 individual presumably to avoid procedural complications in
 enforcing rights and duties qua in property at a later stage. 42. It is on that touchstone equally reasonable to assume that the
 other legal representatives of the deceased-tenant neither gave up
 their tenancy rights in the property nor did they give up the benefits
 that would flow to them as legal heirs of the deceased tenant
 consequent upon the decision of the Corporation to sell the property
 to the occupants. That conclusion gets strengthened by the fact that
 the parties had made contributions towards the sale consideration
 paid for the acquisition of the suit property which they would not
 have done if the intention was to concede the property in favour of
 the appellant. 43. Superadded to the above is the fact that the parties were
 closely related to each other which too lends considerable support to
 the case of the plaintiffs that the defendant-appellant held the
 tenancy rights and the ostensible title to the suit property in a
 fiduciary capacity vis-à-vis his siblings who had by reason of their
 contribution and the contribution made by their father continued to
 evince interest in the property and its ownership. Reposing
 confidence and faith in the appellant was in the facts and
 circumstances of the case not unusual or unnatural especially when
 possession over the suit property continued to be enjoyed by the
 plaintiffs who would in law and on a parity of reasoning be deemed
 to be holding the same for the benefit of the appellant as much as the
 appellant was holding the title to the property for the benefit of the
 plaintiffs. 44. The cumulative effect of the above circumstances when seen in
 the light of the substantial amount paid by late Shri C.F Martins, the
 father of the parties, thus puts the Appellant in a fiduciary capacity
 vis-à-vis the said four persons. Such being the case the transaction is
 completely saved from the mischief of Section 4 of the Act by
 reason of the same falling under sub- section 3(b) of Section 4 . The
 suit filed by the respondents was not, therefore, barred by the Act as CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 22 of 26 contended by the learned counsel for the appellant. The view taken
 by the High Court to that effect is affirmed though for slightly
 different reasons. 45. We may while parting say that we have not been impressed by
 the contentions urged on behalf of the Appellant that the plea of a
 fiduciary relationship existing between the parties and saving the
 suit from the mischief of Section 4 of the Act, was not available to
 the respondents, as the same had not been raised before the Courts
 below. The question whether the suit was hit by Section 4 of the Act
 was argued before the High Court and found against the appellant.
 The plea was not, therefore, new nor did it spring a surprise upon the
 appellant, especially when it was the appellant who was relying
 upon Section 4 of the Act and the Respondents were simply
 defending the maintainability of their suit. That apart no question of
 fact beyond what has been found by the High Court was or is
 essential for answering the plea raised by the appellant nor is there
 any failure of justice to call for our interference at this stage. 46. In the result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed but in the
 circumstances without any orders as to costs." 16. With all humility I may note that in the judgment in the case of Marcel Martins (supra), none of the parties drew attention of the Supreme

Court to the extremely important provision of Section 7 of the Benami Act

that the fiduciary relationships which were protected earlier by virtue of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Trusts Act, such fiduciary transactions by

virtue of repeal of these provisions would stand excluded from Section

4(3)(b) of the Benami Act i.e those transactions which were transactions of

trust and fiduciary in nature, once they were in the nature falling under Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Trusts Act, then on these Sections being CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 23 of 26 repealed, hence trust/fiduciary relationships covered under such Sections

were those transactions which were benami transactions which stood

prohibited by the promulgation of the Benami Act . As held in J M Kohli's

case (supra), surely intendment of Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act is not

to bring through the back door, relationships of trust/fiduciary character

falling in the provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Trusts Act which

were specifically repealed by Section 7 of the Benami Act. Putting it in

other words, once transactions were in the nature of trust, and such

transactions in the nature of trust were encompassed within the meaning of

trust as comprised in Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Trusts Act, though such

transactions were transactions in trust and fiduciary in nature, such

transactions were held to be illegal after passing of the Benami Act by repeal

of these provisions of the Trusts Act . Obviously, it cannot be otherwise held

that the transactions which fall within the meaning of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Trusts Act, though these Sections stand repealed, yet the transactions

falling in these Sections will have protection of Section 4(3)(b) of the

Benami Act. A reading of the judgment in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) shows that on the facts of the said case it was held that there was a

fiduciary relationship and a relationship in the nature of trust, inasmuch as,

actually all the parties were to be the owners but for the fact that the CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 24 of 26 Corporation had desired, and which is in fact in the nature of compulsion by

the Corporation and as per its policy, the property by the Corporation was

not transferred in the name of all the legal heirs of Smt. Stella Martins but

only in the name of one legal heir. Such transactions compassed in the case

of Marcel Martins (supra), and which were brought about on the direction

of a third party, is different from a voluntary transaction where a person

voluntarily gives money for property to be purchased in the name of another

person and in which case such a transaction where A pays money for the

property to be purchased in the name of B, this by itself will necessarily be a

benami transaction under Section 2(a) of the Benami Act which states that

any transaction in which property is transferred to one person for a

consideration paid or provided by another person, such a transaction is a

benami transaction, and such benami transactions are subject matter of

prohibition of Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act. 17. In my humble opinion therefore the judgment in the case of Marcel Martins (supra) is distinguishable in view of the existence of the

provision of Section 7 of the Benami Act repealing Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of

the Trusts Act. CS(OS) No. 478/2004 Page 25 of 26 18. In view of the above, since the plaintiff in the plaint himself

states that the property was purchased as a benami property in the name of

the father, late Sh. Jai Gopal Gugnani, merely and although the plaintiff has

used the expressions fiduciary relationship and trustee, yet these expressions

of fiduciary relationship and trustee are not those expressions which will

cause the transaction to fall under the exception of Section 4(3)(b) of the

Benami Act, but these expressions are those expressions which fall under Sections 81 , 82 , and 94 of the Trusts Act and which have been repealed by Section 7 of the Benami Act. 19. In view of the above, I hold that the suit is barred by the

provision of Section 4(1) of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act,

1988. 20. The suit is accordingly dismissed. Parties are left to bear their

own costs. All pending applications will stand disposed of accordingly. Next

date of 24.8.2015 stands cancelled.