SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J 1. The Appellant seeks to challenge the Judgement dated 22.04.2021,
 passed by the learned Single Judge in W.P.(C) 4378/2021 & W.P.(C)
 4407/2021 by which the learned Single Judge rejected the Writ Petition filed
 by the Appellants. The Appellants herein, by way of the abovementioned
 Writ Petition, had sought to challenge the Order dated 24.03.2021 passed by
 the Respondent No.1 herein directing the Director-General, CCI, to initiate Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 2 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 investigation into the 2021 Terms of Service and Privacy Policy of the
 Appellant in LPA No.163/2021 on the ground that it violates the provisions
 of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'). 2. The facts, in brief, leading to the instant Appeals are as under:- vi. This Order dated 24.03.2021 under Section 26(1) of the Act was
 challenged before this Court in W.P.(C) 4378/2021 and W.P.(C)
 4407/2021 by the Appellants herein. Vide Judgment dated
 22.04.2021, the learned Single Judge held that the CCI-
 Respondent No.1 in both the Appeals would not be divested of
 its jurisdiction that it possesses under the Act merely because an
 issue may be pending before the Supreme Court or the High
 Court. Furthermore, it was observed that the Order passed under Section 26(1) of the Act is purely administrative in nature and
 does not entail any consequence on the civil rights of the
 Appellants herein. Accordingly, the learned Single Judge
 dismissed the petitions filed by the Appellants herein.
 vii. Aggrieved by the Judgment dated 22.04.2021, passed by the
 learned Single Judge in W.P.(C) 4378/2021 and W.P.(C) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 4 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 4407/2021, the Appellants have approached this Court by filing
 the instant Appeals. 3. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Appellant in
 LPA 163/2021, submits that WhatsApp provides an end-to-end encryption
 service for sending and receiving of messages to safeguard the privacy of its
 users. He submits that this very issue has been considered by this Court in
 Karmanya Singh Sareen & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., W.P.(C)
 7663/2016, and this Court vide Judgment dated 23.09.2016 had upheld the
 2016 Policy by holding that the users of WhatsApp, having voluntarily opted
 to avail services of the said application, were bound by the terms of service
 offered by WhatsApp, and it is always open to users of WhatsApp who do
 not want their information to be shared with Facebook to opt for deletion of
 their accounts. Mr. Salve further relies upon Vinod Kumar Gupta v.
 Whatsapp Inc., (Case No. 99/2016), wherein the CCI, i.e. Respondent No.1
 upheld the 2016 Policy with the finding that there had been no abuse of
 dominance by the Appellant. He also states that the Ministry of Electronics
 and Information Technology (MeiTY) is in the process of promulgating a
 Personal Data Protection Bill and the policies of the Appellant would be
 answerable to the provisions stipulated in the same, and therefore, the CCI
 should refrain from adjudicating on this issue before the Bill is promulgated. 4. The learned Senior Counsel further submits that the preliminary order
 makes it clear that the issues before the Supreme Court and the issues before
 Respondent No.1 are identical and overlapping. He states that as per the
 principle of judicial discipline, Respondent No.1 must exercise restraint and
 refrain from issuing the CCI order on the ground that the Supreme Court in
 Karmanya Singh Sareen v. Union of India and Ors., [SLP (Civil) No. 804 of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 5 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 2017] and this Court in Chaitanya Rohilla v. Union of India &Ors.,
 [W.P.(C) No. 677 of 2021] and Dr. Seema Singh v. Union of India &Ors.,
 [W.P.(C) No. 1355 of 2021] are already seized of the issues pertaining to the
 same subject matter. In this regard, he also brings to notice of this Court
 paragraph 33 of the impugned Judgement wherein the learned Single Judge
 has observed that "maybe, it would have been prudent for the respondent
 no.1 to have awaited the outcome of the above-referred petitions". He
 submits that the order of CCI is not merely administrative, as has been held
 by the learned Single Judge, as the powers of the DG are quite drastic. He
 relies upon the Order dated 24.03.2021 to state that Respondent No.1 itself
 in Paragraph 4 of the said Order has referred to a previous case on the same
 issue, i.e. Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Whatsapp Inc., (Case No. 99/2016)
 wherein the CCI has held that 2016 Policy does not institute anti-
 competition practices. He further submits that the 2021 Policy also falls
 within the purview of the information technology law framework and that a
 reading of the letter dated 18.05.2021 issued by the MeiTY also
 demonstrates that the issues are overlapping. 5. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel, relies on the judgment of
 the Supreme Court in Competition Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel ,
 (2019) 2 SCC 521, to submit that in the said case, the Supreme Court had
 rejected the Respondent No.1's attempt to exercise jurisdiction over matters
 that were being considered by the sectoral regulator, i.e. TRAI, despite the
 matter involving competition related issues. He submits that the learned
 Single Judge has come to the conclusion that there is an overlap of
 jurisdiction in paragraph 33 of the impugned Judgment and, after arriving at
 the said conclusion, the learned Single Judge has observed that it would be
 prudent for the Commission to keep its hands off till the issues pending Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 6 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 before the Supreme Court are decided. He states that a perusal of the
 additional affidavit demonstrates that the questions that have been posed by
 MeiTY in its letter dated 18.05.2021 with regard to the 2021 Policy to the
 Appellant are the same as the questions that have been referred by
 Respondent No.1 to the Appellant. Therefore, the learned Senior Counsel
 argues that if the same issue is decided by different authorities, then it might
 lead to conflicting opinions being rendered. 6. Mr. Salve contends that the challenge is not to any inquiry under Section 26 of the Act, but the challenge is jurisdictional in nature. He states
 that currently the challenge to the policy itself is pending, and if the
 Appellant's right to continue a particular action is in itself in question, then
 the question of CCI inquiry does not arise. He further brings to the notice of
 this Court Section 57 of the Act and Regulation 35 of the Competition
 Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009, and states that these
 provisions do not ensure that the confidentiality of the matter is maintained
 as the same is only dependent on the discretion of the CCI at the end of the
 day. Further, there is no guarantee regarding the maintenance of
 confidentiality as is evident by the fact that other entities such as the Internet
 Freedom Foundation (IFF) and one Prachi Kohli have filed intervention
 applications on being made aware of the issue. He states that, therefore, an
 intrusive and unnecessary investigation by the DG would have the potential
 of revealing the internal workings of the Appellant to the public, thereby
 hampering its business. 7. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Appellant
 in LPA 164/2021, at the outset, states that he is adopting the arguments of
 Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Appellant in
 LPA 163/2021, and submits that the Appellant in LPA 164/2021 has been Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 7 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 roped in the instant matter by virtue of a few references made in the CCI's
 Order dated 24.03.2021. He submits that there is no material that would lead
 to a prima facie opinion being formed that there exists abuse of dominance
 as per Section 4 of the Act by the Appellant, and that, therefore, it does not
 satisfy the requirements of the Act to establish a prima facie case of abuse of
 dominance. 8. Mr. Rohatgi submits that Section 26(1) of the Act prohibits
 Respondent No.1 from exercising jurisdiction over and initiating an
 investigation into the Appellant, unless it first establishes a prima facie case
 of abuse of dominance. He states that Respondent No.1 has failed to satisfy
 any of the requirements stipulated under Section 4 of the Act that could
 establish abuse of dominance. He states that the Appellant has a right to
 carry on his business in accordance with law and relies upon Barium
 Chemicals v. Company Law Board & Ors. , 1966 Supp. SCR 311. He states
 that the subject of investigation is WhatsApp, i.e. Appellant in LPA
 163/2021, and that just because the Appellant in LPA 164/2021 is a common
 owner, it would not mean that they are required to share the burden. He
 further states that it is the 2016 Policy and the 2021 Policy which are under
 challenge, and that these updates are not the policies of the Appellant in LPA
 164/2021. He, therefore, states that just because information can be shared
 by virtue of those policies, it is not a ground to investigate into the affairs of
 Facebook. 9. Mr. Rohatgi also relies upon Vinod Kumar Gupta v. Whatsapp Inc.,
 (Case No. 99/2016), wherein the CCI had found that no prima facie case of
 contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act had been made out
 with regard to the 2016 Policy, and CCI did not have jurisdiction over
 violations arising out of the Information Technology Act, 2000 , to submit Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 8 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 that the CCI is bound by its own order and that judicial discipline requires
 the CCI not to intrude into this arena when the highest authority of the land
 is seized of the matter. He also places on record a judgement of NCLAT
 dated 02.08.2022 wherein the NCLAT upheld the Order of the CCI in Vinod
 Kumar Gupta (supra), thereby cementing the findings of the CCI. The
 learned Senior Counsel submits that Section 26 of the Act stipulates the
 procedure of inquiry into complaints under Section 19 of the Act, which in
 turn is regarding inquiry into certain agreements and dominant position of
 enterprise. He further states that Section 4 of the Act stipulates what
 constitutes dominant position and there is nothing in the Order to indicate
 that the Appellant is abusing its dominant position. 10. The learned Senior Counsel submits that the interpretation of the
 learned Single Judge of Competition Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel (supra) is misplaced as in the said matter, the issue was between two
 regulators. In the instant case, it is the Constitution Bench of the Supreme
 Court which is seized of the matter pertaining to the 2021 Policy, and
 therefore, judicial propriety would dictate that CCI should stay its hands
 before initiating any investigation whatsoever before the Supreme Court has
 rendered its decision. 11. Mr. Parag Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Facebook
 India Online Services Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the "Applicant")
 by way of an Impleadment Application, submits that there is no material
 which clubs the Applicant with the Appellants herein and that the Applicant
 has nothing to do with the activities of Facebook Inc. itself. He contends that
 the entity has been incorporated to carry out business in India and abroad,
 inter alia, online support services, software development, providing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 9 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 technical support, and services, and that it is not operating the social media
 website, and thus, it has nothing to do with the instant matter. 12. The learned Senior Counsel relies on the Judgement of the Supreme
 Court in Competition Commission of India v. Steel Authority of India
 Limited , (2010) 10 SCC 744, to submit that there has to be an element of
 reasoning at the stage of forming a prima facie view by the CCI. He states
 that CCI does not need detailed reasoning, but must express in no uncertain
 terms that it is of the view that there exists a prima facie case, requiring
 issuance of a direction for investigation to the Director General. As per Mr.
 Tripathi, CCI's Order lacks the reasoning required to embark upon the
 journey of investigating into the anti-competitive concerns that have been
 raised. 13. Mr. Tripathi contends that unless there is some kind of finding that the
 Applicant has violated any of the conditions under Section 4 of the Act, he
 cannot be subjected to any scrutiny under the Act. He states that without
 there being a modicum of allegation under Section 4 of the Act, there is no
 jurisdiction of the CCI to conduct a roving inquiry. He further states that
 since the learned Single Judge had already upheld the Order passed by the
 CCI, no useful purpose would have been served by approaching the Single
 Judge. He, therefore, submits that the Applicant has moved the present
 application for impleadment in the instant LPAs. 14. Mr. Tripathi further places reliance on Union of India v. Special
 Tehsildar (ZA) &Ors. , ( 1996) 2 SCC 332, Jatan Kumar Golcha v. Golcha
 Properties Pvt. Ltd. , ( 1970) 3 SCC 573, Harvinder Singh v. Paramjit Singh ,
 ( 2013) 9 SCC 261, and V.N. Krishna Murthy v. Ravikumar , (2020) 9 SCC
 501, to argue that the impleadment application of the Facebook India Online
 Services Pvt. Ltd. should be allowed as the rights of the party are being Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 10 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 directly affected by the actions of the CCI and, thus, the Applicant falls
 within the four corners of the category of an "aggrieved person" whose
 standing shall be in jeopardy if the investigation is allowed to be continued
 and if a right of hearing is not provided. Relying on the aforesaid
 judgements, he states that it is always open to a person who is aggrieved by
 an Order to approach in appeal which arises out of those proceedings. 15. Per contra, Mr. N. Venkataraman, learned ASG appearing for
 Respondent No.1/CCI, submits that there is no overlap factually with any
 pending proceedings across other Courts. He states that the Order of the CCI
 indicates that a careful and thoughtful consideration of the matter was done
 before arriving at the conclusion that there were concerns regarding violation
 of the provisions of the Act. He states that the CCI is examining the 2021
 Policy through the prism of the Competition Act, 2002 , in a bid to discharge
 its statutory functions as a competition law regulator and is, therefore, not
 concerned with the possible violation of fundamental rights that is being
 delved into by the Supreme Court. Mr. Venkataraman, therefore, argues that
 the scope of jurisdiction of the CCI lies on a different plane than that of a
 Constitutional Court, and the fact that the latter is seized of the matter has no
 bearing on the investigation that is being conducted by the DG, CCI.
 Furthermore, attention has been drawn to Sections 60 and 62 of the Act to
 state that the Act shall have an overriding effect, and that the application of
 other laws would not be barred. 16. The learned ASG submits that the reliance of the Appellants on
 Paragraph 23 of the impugned Judgement is misplaced on the ground that
 the learned Single Judge had merely implied that though the underlying
 transactions were the same, however, plural examination was required. He
 states that the learned Single Judge has aptly noted that the reliance of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 11 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 Appellants on Competition Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel (supra) is
 erroneous to the extent that the said Judgement deals with a conflict between
 the scope of jurisdiction of a sectoral regulator, which is the TRAI, and a
 market regulator which is the CCI, and that the market regulator's
 jurisdiction is not ousted solely for the reason that the sectoral regulator is
 seized of the matter; it only entails for the sectoral regulator to conduct its
 investigation prior to the market regulator. The learned ASG further submits
 that the case needs to be read factually as the Supreme Court had therein
 found that it was primarily a telecom issue, not a competition issue. 17. Mr. Venkataraman relies upon S. Sukumar v. Secretary, Institute of
 Chartered Accountants of India and Ors. , (2018) 14 SCC 360, to state that in
 the said matter, the Supreme Court had held that a case had been made out
 for examination not only by the Enforcement Directorate as well as the
 Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), but also by the Central
 Government with regard to issues of violation of RBI/FDI policies and The
 Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 . He states that, similarly, in the instant
 case, as different aspects of the 2021 Policy were to be considered and the
 CCI would not be denuded of its power to conduct the investigation solely
 on the basis that the Supreme Court was also looking into the aspect of
 violations of right to privacy. 18. Further reliance has been placed on Panther Fincap and Management
 Services Ltd. v Union of India , (2005 SCC OnLine Bom 386), and the
 following paragraph of the Bombay High Court judgement has been cited: 19. The learned ASG relies upon Section 4(2) of the Act to submit that the
 focus of a competition law-based investigation is apparent from a reading of
 the said provision. It has further been submitted that the learned Single
 Judge has rightly observed that the CCI Order records that WhatsApp is a
 dominant entity in the relevant market for OTT messaging apps through
 smartphones in India [as has been held by CCI in Harshita Chawla v.
 WhatsApp Inc and Anr., (Case No. 15 of 2020)], and that the 2021 Policy is
 a product that emanates out of the entrenched dominant position of
 WhatsApp in the said market. Furthermore, Paragraph 25 of the CCI Order
 has been referred to in order to argue that the CCI, after duly analysing how
 the "take it or leave it" nature of the 2021 Policy and Terms of Service of
 WhatsApp, and the information sharing stipulations therein, has held that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 14 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 same merit a detailed investigation in view of the market position and
 market power enjoyed by WhatsApp. He further states that the existence of Regulation 35 of the Competition Commission of India (General)
 Regulations, 2009, ensures that whatever happens during the course of
 investigation is kept confidential. 20. Mr. Venkataraman refers to the letter dated 18.05.2021 issued by
 MeiTY to state that the Ministry had warned WhatsApp as to how the 2021
 Policy was violative of not only the right to privacy enshrined in our
 Constitution of India, 1950, but further violated the legal framework under
 the Information Technology Act, 2000 , the Competition Act, 2002 , and
 other statutory provisions. He states that WhatsApp's response dated
 22.05.2021 to the said letter reveals that the entity has not stopped the
 exercise of its policy. He further submits that Rule 5(7) of the Information
 Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive
 Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the
 "SPDI Rules") can at the most be said to overlap with Article 21 , but cannot
 be said to impinge upon provisions related to anti-competitive practices, and
 that an investigation under Section 4(2) of the Act cannot be stopped merely
 because there is an overlap. Furthermore, by no stretch of imagination can it
 be said that by way of the said letter, the Ministry seeks to investigate into
 the 2021 Policy. 21. The learned ASG relies upon Monsanto Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v.
 Competition Commission of India and Ors. , 2020 SCC OnLine Del 598, to
 argue that the legislative intent of the Competition Act was to ensure that its
 provisions were implemented in addition to provisions of other statutes. Mr.
 Venkataraman concludes his submissions by relying upon Flipkart Internet
 Pvt. Ltd. v Competition Commission of India and Ors. , Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 15 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 MANU/KA/3124/2021, State of West Bengal and Ors. v. Swapan Kumar
 Guha and Ors. , ( 1982) 1 SCC 561, Skoda Auto Volkswagen (India) Pvt.
 Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh , ( 2021) 5 SCC 795, and Eastern Spinning
 Mills and Virendra Kumar Sharda and Anr. v. Rajiv Poddar and Ors. , 1989
 Supp (2) SCC 385, to largely submit that once an offence is disclosed an
 investigation into the offence must necessarily follow in the interests of
 justice, and that Courts and other judicial processes should not interfere in
 the course of investigation which must proceed unhampered by Court orders. 22. Mr. Balbir Singh, learned ASG, supplements the submissions of Mr.
 N. Venkataraman, and argues that the long-term objective of such
 technology and devices is to consume every inch of human time, and to
 capitalise on it. He states that in pursuance of this, exclusionary tactics are
 adopted by such entities which are backed by the dominant position that
 these entities occupy. He submits that there is a design and object behind
 these tech companies, and that the Competition Act, 2002 , was brought in to
 ensure that these companies did not use their position to institute anti-
 competitive practices to the detriment of their users. He further submits that
 the principle of res judicata would not apply in the case of Vinod Kumar
 Gupta (supra) for the reason that it was the 2016 Policy which was under 23. Mr. Singh contends that competition is not a conduct; it is a
 behaviour, and that Section 4 of the Act categorically uses the term
 "enterprise" to denote the concept of a group. He states that it would not be
 in the realm of law to investigate only WhatsApp and not Facebook, and that
 the language of Section 26 itself indicates that the issue is not about a party,
 but about the matter. He further states that by virtue of being a group Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 16 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 company as well as the holding company of WhatsApp, Facebook inhabits a
 position whereby they can virtually use the information being shared by
 WhatsApp and potentially misuse the same. 24. The learned ASG concludes his submissions by reiterating that the Competition Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel (supra) is not applicable
 in the instant case as the issue in that case was a Point of Interconnect which
 was in realm of the telecom sector, and that it had never been said that CCI
 had no jurisdiction at all. Furthermore, Mr. Singh submits that there is
 enough material to showcase that the entire group, including Facebook India
 Online Services Pvt. Ltd. which is seeking impleadment in the instant
 matter, belongs to the Facebook company. The learned ASG, in this regard,
 relies upon Cadila Healthcare Limited v. Competition Commission of India ,
 2018 SCC OnLine Del 11229, and Competition Commission of India v.
 Grasim Industries Ltd., 2019 SCC OnLine Del 10017, to submit that when Section 26(1) of the Act is in operation, at this stage, the investigation is
 quasi-inquisitorial, to the extent that the report given is inconclusive of the
 rights of the parties. However, he states that, stemming from Excel Crop
 Care Ltd. v. Competition Commission of India , (2017) 8 SCC 47, the DG
 has the right to investigate the subject matter, along with other allied and
 unenumerated issues, involving others (i.e. third parties). He additionally
 states that once you are a part of the Facebook company, you mechanically
 fall under the purview of Section 4 of the Act. Furthermore, it is judicially
 prudent for the Applicant to implead itself in appeal when the principle
 Order has not been challenged. 25. Heard Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing for
 Appellant in LPA 163/2021, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel
 appearing for Appellant in LPA 164/2021, Mr. N. Venkataraman and Mr. Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 17 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 Balbir Singh, learned ASGs for CCI-Respondent No.1 in both the appeals,
 and Mr.Parag Tripathi, learned Senior Advocate for the Applicant in CM
 APPL. 40334/2021, and perused the material on record. 26. At the outset, it becomes pertinent to delineate the objective of the Competition Act, 2002 , and the role of the CCI. The objective of the Act is
 set out in the Preamble itself, i.e. to establish a Commission to prevent
 practices having adverse effect on competition, to promote and sustain
 competition in markets, to protect the interests of consumers, and to ensure
 the freedom of trade carried on by other participants in markets, in India, and
 for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Chapter II of the
 Competition Act prohibits certain agreements, abuse of dominant position,
 and regulation of combinations, with Section 4 specifically prohibiting the
 abuse of dominant position. Chapter IV of the Act deals with provisions
 which set out the duties, powers and functions of the CCI, with Section 18
 stating that it shall be the duty of the Commission to eliminate practices
 relating to the principles set down in the Preamble itself [ Refer to
 Competition Commission of India v. State of Mizoram and Ors. , 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 63]. 27. Therefore, as has been succinctly enumerated by the Supreme Court in Competition Commission of India v. Steel Authority of India (supra), the
 main objective of competition law is to promote economic efficiency using
 competition as one of the means of assisting the creation of a market
 responsive to consumer preferences. Satisfactory implementation of
 competition law would lead to a threefold advantageous system wherein
 there would be allocative efficiency, which ensures effective allocation of
 resources; productive efficiency, which ensures that costs of production are
 kept at a minimum; and dynamic efficiency, which promotes innovative Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 18 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 practices. One can only proceed ahead with a matter entailing an attack to
 the jurisdiction of the CCI by keeping these objectives of the Competition
 Act in mind. 28. The primary issue that has been submitted before this Court is with
 regard to the overlapping jurisdiction of the CCI and the Constitutional
 Courts, and whether CCI should abstain from exercising its jurisdiction to
 maintain comity between decisions of different authorities on the same
 issues. In this context, the Appellants have placed heavy reliance on Competition Commission of India v. Bharti Airtel (supra) to submit that
 therein the sectoral regulator, i.e. TRAI, had been given leeway by the
 Supreme Court to conduct its inquiry, over CCI. 29. The learned Single Judge has culled out the relevant portion of the
 said Judgement wherein the scope and ambit of the two specialised
 regulators have been considered to deal with a complaint regarding denial of
 Points of Interconnection to one of the telecom operators. This Court deems
 it fit to reproduce the relevant paragraphs of the said Judgement as follows: 109. CCI is specifically entrusted with duties and
 functions, and in the process empower as well, to deal
 with the aforesaid three kinds of anti-competitive
 practices. The purpose is to eliminate such practices
 which are having adverse effect on the competition, to
 promote and sustain competition and to protect the
 interest of the consumers and ensure freedom of trade,
 carried on by other participants, in India. To this
 extent, the function that is assigned to CCI is distinct
 from the function of TRAI under the TRAI Act . The
 learned counsel for the appellants are right in their
 submission that CCI is supposed to find out as to
 whether the IDOs were acting in concert and
 colluding, thereby forming a cartel, with the intention
 to block or hinder entry of RJIL in the market in
 violation of Section 3(3)(b) of the Competition Act.
 Also, whether there was an anti-competitive agreement
 between the IDOs, using the platform of COAI. CCI,
 therefore, is to determine whether the conduct of the
 parties was unilateral or it was a collective action
 based on an agreement. Agreement between the
 parties, if it was there, is pivotal to the issue. Such an
 exercise has to be necessarily undertaken by CCI. In Haridas Exports [Haridas Exports v. All India Float
 Glass Manufacturers' Assn. , (2002) 6 SCC 600] , this
 Court held that where statutes operate in different
 fields and have different purposes, it cannot be said
 that there is an implied repeal of one by the other. The
 Competition Act is also a special statute which deals
 with anti-competition. It is also to be borne in mind
 that if the activity undertaken by some persons is anti-
 competitive and offends Section 3 of the Competition
 Act, the consequences thereof are provided in the Competition Act . ***** 112. Obviously, all the aforesaid functions not only
 come within the domain of CCI, TRAI is not at all
 equipped to deal with the same. Even if TRAI also Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 23 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 returns a finding that a particular activity was anti-
 competitive, its powers would be limited to the action
 that can be taken under the TRAI Act alone. It is only
 CCI which is empowered to deal with the same anti- competitive act from the lens of the Competition Act .
 If such activities offend the provisions of the Competition Act as well, the consequences under that
 Act would also follow. Therefore, contention of the
 IDOs that the jurisdiction of CCI stands totally ousted
 cannot be accepted. Insofar as the nuanced exercise
 from the standpoint of the Competition Act is
 concerned, CCI is the experienced body in conducting
 competition analysis. Further, CCI is more likely to
 opt for structural remedies which would lead the
 sector to evolve a point where sufficient new entry is
 induced thereby promoting genuine competition. This
 specific and important role assigned to CCI cannot be
 completely wished away and the "comity" between the
 sectoral regulator (i.e. TRAI) and the market
 regulator (i.e. CCI) is to be maintained. 113. The conclusion of the aforesaid discussion is to
 give primacy to the respective objections (sic
 objectives) of the two regulators under the two Acts. At
 the same time, since the matter pertains to the telecom
 sector which is specifically regulated by the TRAI Act ,
 balance is maintained by permitting TRAI in the first
 instance to deal with and decide the jurisdictional
 aspects which can be more competently handled by it.
 Once that exercise is done and there are findings
 returned by TRAI which lead to the prima facie
 conclusion that the IDOs have indulged in anti- competitive practices, CCI can be activated to
 investigate the matter going by the criteria laid down
 in the relevant provisions of the Competition Act and
 take it to its logical conclusion. This balanced
 approach in construing the two Acts would take care of Section 60 of the Competition Act as well. 114. We, thus, do not agree with the appellants that
 CCI could have dealt with this matter at this stage
 itself without availing the inquiry by TRAI. We also do
 not agree with the respondents that insofar as the
 telecom sector is concerned, jurisdiction of CCI under
 the Competition Act is totally ousted. In a nutshell, that
 leads to the conclusion that the view taken by the High
 Court is perfectly justified. Even the argument of the
 learned ASG is that the exercise of jurisdiction by CCI
 to investigate an alleged cartel does not impinge upon
 TRAI's jurisdiction to regulate the industry in any way.
 It was submitted that the promotion of competition and
 prevention of competitive behaviour may not be high
 on the change of sectoral regulator which makes it
 prone to "regulatory capture" and, therefore, CCI is
 competent to exercise its jurisdiction from the
 standpoint of the Competition Act . However, having
 taken note of the skilful exercise which TRAI is
 supposed to carry out, such a comment vis-à-vis TRAI
 may not be appropriate. No doubt, as commented by
 the Planning Commission in its report of February
 2007, a sectoral regulator, may not have an overall
 view of the economy as a whole, which CCI is able to
 fathom. Therefore, our analysis does not bar the
 jurisdiction of CCI altogether but only pushes it to a
 later stage, after TRAI has undertaken necessary
 exercise in the first place, which it is more suitable to
 carry out." (emphasis supplied) 30. A reading of the aforesaid paragraphs of the Judgement indicates that
 the sole issue therein was a conflict between the jurisdiction of a sectoral
 regulator and the market regulator. The Supreme Court came to a finding
 that the matter pertained to the telecom sector, which was specifically
 regulated by the TRAI Act . However, it noted that the jurisdiction of TRAI
 would not oust that of CCI to deal with violations of Competition Act and
 violations thereunder. Moreover, Paragraph 100 of the Judgement states that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 25 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 in the case therein, the dispute pertained to how Incumbent Dominant
 Operators (IDOs) had not given Points of Interconnect (POIs) as per the
 license conditions, and Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. (RJIL) had specifically
 approached TRAI for the settlement of this dispute. TRAI, being the
 authority that would mandate the adherence to licensing conditions, was,
 therefore, deemed fit to be seized of the matter before the charge of
 investigation could be given to the CCI. 31. It is the contention of the Appellants that since the underlying issues
 arising before the Apex Court and this Court, and the investigation that is
 sought to be conducted by the CCI are common, this can potentially lead to
 conflicting opinions. This contention of the Appellants is not acceptable. It is
 the case of the Appellants that while the Apex Court is looking into whether
 the 2021 Policy is violative of the right to privacy under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India or not, the investigation by CCI is confined to whether
 the 2021 Policy is in furtherance of the dominant position occupied by
 WhatsApp and institutes anti-competitive practices. The sphere of operation
 of both are vastly different. Neither this Court nor the Supreme Court are
 analysing the 2021 Policy through the prism of competition law. The Order
 dated 24.03.2021 rendered by the CCI also notes the same: 32. The observation of the learned Single Judge that certain issues that the
 CCI is seized of "may substantially be in issue before the Supreme Court
 and this Court" does not lead to a conclusion that the Supreme Court or this
 Court are adjudicating upon the same issue. Contrary to what has been
 submitted by the Appellants, this observation cannot be interpreted as a
 holding that the issues being considered by both the authorities are the same.
 Even if the issues are the same, the approach of the authorities is vastly
 dissimilar, and there exists no inviolable rule that the CCI would completely
 lack jurisdiction in the instant matter. Parallel inquiries by two different Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 27 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 authorities in their respective spheres of adjudication is not uncommon and a
 slight overlap between the inquiries does not mean that one must lead to the
 ouster of the other. Therefore, in the absence of any irreconcilable
 repugnancy between the jurisdiction of both the authorities, i.e. CCI and the
 Constitutional Courts, the CCI has the liberty to proceed ahead with its
 investigation under Section 26(1) of the Act. 33. The investigation conducted by the CCI will not be affected by the
 outcome of the proceedings pending before the Apex Court and this Court.
 In the event the Supreme Court upholds the 2021 Policy, then surely CCI
 can venture into the question as to whether the provisions of the Act have
 been violated or not. In the event that the 2021 Policy is set aside by the
 Supreme Court, the CCI will still possess the jurisdiction to investigate the
 violation of the Act, if any, during the pendency of the matter before the
 Supreme Court when the 2021 Policy was in operation. In either of the
 cases, it cannot be stated that the CCI does not have the authority look into
 this affair being the market regulator. 34. It further becomes necessary to examine the scope and ambit of Section 26(1) of the Act which has been done in Competition Commission
 of India v. Steel Authority of India (supra) and has been relied upon by the
 learned Single Judge. The relevant portion of the said Judgement is as
 follows: 35. A reading of the above Judgement indicates that the jurisdiction of the
 CCI under Section 26(1) does not contemplate an adjudicatory function, but
 is merely a function of an administrative nature. Accordingly, there is no
 right of notice or hearing contemplated under the provisions of Section 26(1) of the Act. It is in nature of preparatory measures in contrast to the decision-
 making process, and this nature is evident from the usage of the term
 "direction" that is issued to the Director General for investigation in that
 provision. In light of this, it becomes clear as day that the function that is
 performed by the CCI under Section 26(1) of the Act would not be affected
 by the adjudication by the Supreme Court or this Court while analysing the
 potential violation of fundamental rights instigated by the 2021 Policy. 36. Moreover, the contention of the Appellants that the CCI in Vinod
 Kumar Gupta (supra) has already assessed the 2016 Policy, and has come to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 30 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 conclusion that the breach of the IT Act, 2000 , does not fall within the
 purview of the CCI, is irrelevant on the ground that, as has been stated in the
 CCI Order as well, the CCI is only concerned with data accumulation that
 may result in exploitative and exclusionary competitive practices as well as
 the effect of data sharing on market capture and competitors' offerings.
 Furthermore, it is pertinent to note that the 2021 Policy is a substantially
 modified version of the 2016 Policy inasmuch as the 2016 Policy had an
 "opt-out" option, which is absent from the 2021 Policy that places its users
 in a "take-it-or-leave-it" situation. It is the "opt-out" option that primarily led
 to CCI rendering its conclusion that the 2016 Policy did not violate the Competition Act, 2002 . However, in the face of changed circumstances,
 considering the dominant position occupied by WhatsApp, the investigation
 proposed to be conducted by CCI does not warrant interference, and res
 judicata would, thus, not be applicable in the instant case. In view of this,
 the fact that the Order of the CCI in Vinod Kumar Gupta (supra) has been
 upheld by the NCLAT vide Order dated 02.08.2022 is of no relevance and
 does not sway the opinion of this Court. Similarly, the emphasis placed by
 the Appellants on the letter dated 18.05.2021 is wholly irrelevant as the mere
 mentioning of the Competition Act does not denote that MeiTY is seized of
 the violations that may be incited by the 2021 Policy. The sphere of
 jurisdiction occupied by MeiTY is different from that of the CCI, and solely
 because the said letter alludes to possible violations of the Act does not oust
 the jurisdiction of the CCI. Per contra, the letter only strengthens the
 contention of Respondent No.1 that there does exist a prima facie violation
 of the provisions of Competition Act, 2002 . It is further a matter of public
 knowledge that the Personal Data Protection Bill, as of date, has been
 withdrawn. 37. The second issue which has been agitated before this Court by both
 the Appellants is that the CCI has failed to discern a prima facie case that
 would entail a direction to the DG to investigate the alleged anti-competitive
 practices. Before delving into this, it would be prudent to reproduce relevant
 portions of Sections 4 , 19 and 26 of the Act: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this clause, the
 unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale
 of goods or service referred to in sub-clause (i) and
 unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale of
 goods (including predatory price) or service referred
 to in sub-clause (ii) shall not include such
 discriminatory condition or price which may be
 adopted to meet the competition; or (b) limits or restricts-- (i) production of goods or provision of services
 or market therefor; or (ii) technical or scientific development
 relating to goods or services to the prejudice
 of consumers; or (c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in
 denial of market access [in any manner]; or Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 32 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 (d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to
 acceptance by other parties of supplementary
 obligations which, by their nature or according
 to commercial usage, have no connection with the
 subject of such contracts; or (e) uses its dominant position in one relevant
 market to enter into, or protect, other relevant
 market. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the
 expression-- (a) "dominant position" means a position of
 strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant
 market, in India, which enables it to-- (i) operate independently of competitive forces
 prevailing in the relevant market; or (ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the
 relevant market in its favour. (b) "predatory price" means the sale of goods or
 provision of services, at a. price which is below the
 cost, as may be determined by regulations, of
 production of the goods or provision of services, with a
 view to reduce competition or eliminate the
 competitors." ***** 19. (1) The Commission may inquire into any alleged
 contravention of the provisions contained
 in subsection (1) of section 3 or sub-section (1) of
 section 4 either on its own motion or on-- (a) [receipt of any information, in such manner and]
 accompanied by such fee as may be determined by
 regulations, from any person, consumer or their
 association or trade association; or (b) a reference made to it by the Central
 Government or a State Government or a statutory
 authority

 ***** Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 33 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 19. (4) The Commission shall, while inquiring whether
 an enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not under
 section 4, have due regard to all or any of the
 following factors, namely:-- The relevant portion of the said Order which elaborates the finding that,
 given its popularity and wide usage, WhatsApp seems to be dominant, has
 been reproduced as under: 39. The dominance of the Appellant in LPA 163/2021 has also been
 deliberated upon by the Respondent No.1 and the following has been stated
 by the same in its Order dated 24.03.2021: 40. The learned Single Judge, after a careful consideration of the CCI
 Order dated 24.03.2021, has also arrived at the same conclusion that
 WhatsApp assumes a dominant position in the relevant product market and
 the relevant geographical market, and has recorded its observations as under: Therefore, as can be discerned from the foregoing, WhatsApp occupies a
 dominant position in a market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones
 in India. 41. Having arrived at this conclusion, it becomes relevant for the CCI to
 have formed a prima facie case before issuing a direction to the Director
 General to cause an investigation to be made into the matter under Section
 26(1). The term "prima facie case" has been discussed in various cases by
 the Supreme Court, such as Competition Commission of India v. Steel
 Authority of India (supra) wherein it was observed as under: 42. Therefore, while forming a prima facie case, the CCI, while not being
 required to record detailed reasons, must take into account all the material
 present, before expressing its mind, and this should be done without entering
 into any adjudicatory or determinative process. A prima facie case need not
 be a case proved to the hilt, but a case which can be said to be established if
 the evidence which is led in support of the same were to be believed [ Refer
 to Management of the Bangalore Woollen Cotton and Silk Mills Co. Ltd. v.
 B. Dasappa , AIR 1960 SC 1352]. 43. The contention of the Appellants is that the CCI Order does not meet
 the jurisdictional threshold as no prima facie case has been established
 against the Appellants and the learned Single Judge has erred in upholding
 the Order dated 24.03.2021. However, a perusal of the CCI Order dated
 24.03.2021 reveals that sufficient reasoning has been provided before the
 CCI arrived at the conclusion that a prima facie case of violation of Section
 4 of the Act was made. The paragraphs of the said Order indicating the same
 are as under: 44. It is not in dispute that WhatsApp occupies a dominant position in the
 relevant product market and that there exists a strong lock-in effect which
 renders its users incapable of shifting to another platform despite
 dissatisfaction with the product - as is exemplified by how, despite an
 increase in the downloads of Telegram and Signal when the 2021 Policy was
 announced, the number of users of WhatsApp have remained unchanged. By
 and large, to ensure retention of its user base and to prevent any other
 disruptive technology from entering the market, data is utilised by tech
 companies to customise and personalise their own platforms so that its
 userbase remains hooked. When data concentration is seen through this
 prism, it does give meaning to the new adage that "data is the new oil", and,
 as noted in the CCI Order dated 24.03.2021, it raises competition concerns
 because it prima facie amounts to imposition of unfair terms and conditions
 upon its users, thereby violating Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. 45. Furthermore, as Paragraph 33 of the CCI Order dated 24.03.2021
 (which has been reproduced hereinabove) states, accumulation and
 processing of personal data from WhatsApp, in addition to its own direct
 data collection, can be done by Facebook for the purposes of consumer
 profiling that allows for targeted ads, inter alia, which in turn has the
 potential to undermine competitive processes and create further barriers to
 market entry in stark violation of Section 4(2)(c) and (e) of the Act. In view
 of these observations, it is evident that CCI has, after due consideration,
 arrived at its decision that a prima facie case of violation of provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 , has been made out against the Appellants herein that
 would require an investigation to be initiated by the DG. The learned Single
 Judge has taken into consideration all these factors before observing that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed LPA 163/2021&LPA 164/2021 Page 46 of 49 By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:26.08.2022 09:30:24 concentration of data in the hands of WhatsApp may raise competition
 concerns, thereby resulting in the violation of Section 4 of the Act. 46. Additionally, the reliance of the Appellants on CCI's Order in Vinod
 Kumar Gupta (supra) is misplaced for the simple reason that 2016 Policy
 provided its users the option to "opt-out" of sharing user account
 information with Facebook within 30 days of agreeing to the updated Terms
 of Service and Privacy Policy. The 2021 Policy, however, places its users in
 a "take-it-or-leave-it" situation, virtually forcing its users into agreement by
 providing a mirage of choice, and then sharing their sensitive data with
 Facebook Companies envisaged in the policy. Therefore, it cannot be said
 that the CCI is bound by its own findings in Vinod Kumar Gupta (supra)
 when the issue at hand as well as the circumstances are different. 47. Apart from the aforesaid two issues, it is also the contention of the
 Appellant in LPA 164/2021 that it is a separate and distinct legal entity from
 WhatsApp, and therefore, it should not be subjected to an intensive and
 intrusive investigation by the DG in pursuance of the findings of the CCI
 under Section 26(1) of the Act. In this regard, the Court finds merit in the
 submission of the learned ASGs that one of the key issues with the 2021
 Policy is its propensity to share the data of its users with Facebook Inc., the
 parent company of WhatsApp. Solely for the reason that the policies itself
 do not emanate out of Facebook Inc., the Appellant cannot hide behind the
 fact that it is the direct and immediate beneficiary of the data sharing
 mechanism envisaged by the policies. These circumstances necessitate the
 presence of the Appellant in LPA 164/2021 as a proper party in the
 investigation pertaining to the 2021 Policy and the alleged anti-competitive
 practices they trigger. 48. With regard to the submissions on behalf of Facebook India Online
 Services Pvt. Ltd., this Court does not find any merit on the aspect of
 impleading the said party on account of the fact that the decision of the DG
 to issue notice to the Applicant, designating it as an "Opposite Party", stems
 from the information it has secured from Internet Freedom Foundation in
 Case No. 30 of 2021 regarding its relevance in the investigation. The
 decision taken by the DG lies in the fact that a thorough investigation can
 only be conducted if the Applicant cooperates in the same. 49. Furthermore, it is not contemplated in law that a party should be
 impleaded at the stage of an appeal when it has not been a party to the matter
 at the stage when the decision from which the appeal arises has been given,
 and the remedy of the Applicant only lies by way of a writ against the Order
 by which it is aggrieved. The contention of Mr. Tripathi that the Applicant
 has chosen to implead itself in the appeal filed by Facebook cannot be
 accepted by this Court. The Applicant will have to first make out a prima
 facie case before the learned Single Judge that there is no allegation against
 it in the Order of the CCI. The case of the Applicant would involve
 independent application of mind by the learned Single Judge. The instant
 appeals are primarily on the issue as to whether the CCI ought to wait till
 final adjudication of the issues which are pending before the Apex Court.
 The Impleadment Application cannot be entertained in the instant appeals
 which have been filed by Facebook Inc. and WhatsApp. This Court,
 therefore, does not deem it fit to scuttle the investigation at a nascent stage
 and defers to the wisdom of the DG and the CCI, and rejects the
 Impleadment Application. However, the Applicant is granted the liberty to
 take all such steps as required by it, in accordance with law, to impugn the
 CCI Order. 50. In light of the aforesaid observations, this Court is of the opinion that
 the impugned Judgement dated 22.04.2021, passed by the learned Single
 Judge in W.P.(C) 4378/2021 & W.P.(C) 4407/2021, is well reasoned, and
 that the appeals filed by the Appellants are devoid of merit and substance
 that would warrant the interference of this Court. 51. Accordingly, the instant appeals are dismissed, along with pending
 application(s), if any. SATISH CHANDRA SHARMA, C.J. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J
 AUGUST 25, 2022
 hsk.