This successive bail petition is filed by the

petitioner/accused No.1 under Section 439 of Cr.P.C

for granting regular bail in C.C.No.33373/2022 in

Cr.No.155/2022 registered by the Mahalakshmipuram

Police Station in Crime No.155/2022 and charge

sheeted for the offence punishable under Section

354(A) , 354(B) , 506 , 364A , 120B , 384 , 397 , 324 read

with 34 of IPC . 2. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and

learned HCGP for the respondent/State. 3. The case of the prosecution is that the

defacto/Complainant victim filed complaint to the

police on 24.07.2022 alleging that she is a sex worker

and on 20.07.2022 she approached accused No.1 3 through mobile phone for giving any work through one

Vinutha, then on the said day at 7.00 p.m. through

WhatsApp location she was asked to come near the

Nelamangala and two persons came and picked her up

in the car, but they went to some other place, she

then questioned the same. They took her to the lonely

place, there they removed her clothes, took the nude

video and subsequently assaulted her. They

threatened her to give money and gold ornaments.

The said persons said to have snatched the golden

ornaments which was worn by her and subsequently

through her phone pay they got transferred

Rs.84,000/- and they also snatched her ATM card.

They took her near Bidadi to an ATM and by force they

withdrawn Rs.40,000/- from her account, they said to

have assaulted her. Later, they telephoned to a

known person Jagadish and asked him to come and

thereafter they left her and went away. During the 4 investigation the police arrested this petitioner and

other accused and they recovered the cash and golden

ornaments from this petitioner and remanded to

judicial custody. She is in custody from 25.07.2022,

her previous bail petition came to be dismissed as

withdrawn now charge sheet is field. Hence, she is

before this court. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner has

contended that the petitioner is innocent and no

connection with the accused. The petitioner is a

women and she is ready to abide by any conditions

and the other accused were also arrested. The

recovery of golden ornaments did not belong to the

complainant. She is in custody for more than 4

months, hence prayed for granting bail. 5. Per contra learned HCGP objected the petition

and contended that the cash and golden ornaments 5 were recovered as joint recovery. Involvement of the

petitioner is available in the records, if she is granted

bail she may commit similar offence, hence prayed for

granting bail. 6. Having heard the arguments and perusal of

the records, especially charge sheet which reveals this

petitioner in collusion with the co-accused Nos.2 and 3 abducted the victim and the accused Nos.2 and 3 snatched golden ornaments and cash from ATM as

well as through phone pay However, the accused

Nos.2 and 3 arrested and recovered the golden

ornaments from this petitioner and other accused.

The accused Nos.2 and 3 said to have taken nude

video graph of the victim and they threatened or

blackmailed her that if she does not give the golden

ornaments and cash as demanded by them, they will

web host the nude video on the internet and they also 6 assaulted her, due to which she gave her golden

ornaments which is nothing but robbery by the

accused Nos.2 and 3 at the instance of this petitioner.

They also extorted the cash through phone pay of

Rs.84,000/- and ATM for Rs.40,000/-. The same were

recovered by the police from this petitioner and other

accused. Though there is no statement made by the

victim under Section 164 of Cr.P.C but the fact

remains this petitioner was actively involved and sent

accused Nos.2 and 3 for robbing gold ornaments and

cash from the complainant, therefore, it cannot be

said her role is not there in the commission of the

crime. They also threatened the complainant that

nude video graph will be web hosted in the internet, if

she does not give money and golden ornaments.

Such being the case, merely petitioner in custody for

4 months that itself is not a ground to grant bail to

this petitioner. It is a very serious offence committed 7 by the accused persons. Therefore, this court is not

inclined to exercise the power under Section 439 of

Cr.P.C and also this petitioner is not entitled for any

benefit under Section 437 (2) of Cr.P.C. Accordingly, successive bail petition of accused

No.1, is hereby dismissed. Sd/- JUDGE
AKV