If you were at the Vaishali metro station on July 28, you would see an empty Worldcoin kiosk with three people in Worldcoin t-shirts with a desk and a spherical camera, sitting and waiting for passers-by to stop and ask them what they’re doing. When asked, they would tell you that all you have to do is get your face and iris scanned, and you would get 25 free crypto tokens, and each of these tokens is worth $2. On the other side of the city, in Hauz Khas, dozens of people were lining up to get these 25 tokens in exchange for their biometric data.

What stuck out to us at MediaNama was that this project collects biometric data just like the Aadhaar database. It made us wonder if anyone can create a biometric database under the guise of giving people a universal basic income? Can you just give someone Rs.100 and get their biometric data in exchange for it? What is the legality of collecting biometric information in India?

Worldcoin is a cryptocurrency project launched on July 24. According to the project’s website, it consists of “a privacy-preserving digital identity (World ID) and, where laws allow, a digital currency (WLD) received simply for being human.” The website also says that the purpose behind creating this project is to “provide a reliable solution to distinguish humans from AI online” and “eventually show a potential path to AI-funded UBI [universal basic income]”. This project is a collaboration between the Worldcoin Foundation and the technology company Tools for Humanity (TFH).

Currently, these World IDs are being issued by verification through a biometric device called an Orb. These Orbs have been placed in 35 countries across the world (as of writing this story). In India, they are present in 15 locations across three states Delhi, Uttar Pradesh (Noida), and Haryana.

India’s current data protection regime (IT Act, 2000) classifies bank details and biometric information under the category of sensitive personal information, Asim Abbas, a partner and technology lawyer at Luthra and Luthra Associates law firm, told us . He added that the rules for the collection of sensitive personal data created under the Information Technology Act of 2000 say, “they [data collectors] have to disclose the purpose [emphasis ours] for which it has been collected. And the purpose needs to be a legal purpose.” He mentioned that the collected data can only be used for the purpose for which consent is taken.

Abbas explained this by giving the example of biometric attendance systems at workplaces where people would have to give their thumb impressions to verify their identity at the beginning and end of the work hours. So, the data collected for attendance purposes can only be used to verify your identity at the office and not for anything outside of that. He said that the data collectors have to disclose the list of people/organizations they will share users’ information with and where such organizations are located. “They can retain it, but they can retain it so long it is necessary for the purpose, which essentially means that they can’t retain it permanently [emphasis ours],” he added.

So far, we know that biometric data can be collected as long as a purpose is disclosed. But does that mean just about anyone can go ahead and ask you for your iris scan? Prasanna S, a lawyer and founder trustee at the Article 21 Trust, said that this was more of a policy question and that the law would probably not engage with the collection of biometric data at this level.

“For example, biometric [data] is collected even now for unlocking your phones. Should you allow biometrics to be collected for that? But there’s an argument saying there is no central database that’s being created [which makes the collection okay]. Therefore, you are not, controlling [the] collection, but you are only controlling storage or use. At what level do you need to control that?” he said.

He said that unless it can be established that significant harm was caused by the data collection activity, it’s going to be very difficult to move in a policy direction that says that we should not let private companies collect biometric data.  “Even [for] nuclear disarmament, that moment, you still had to have Hiroshima and Nagasaki. If you have to do that a disarmament movement for our privacy, I certainly wish we get sooner there,” he said, pointing out that it would take a disaster to make policymakers take action on biometric data collection.

“There’s a certain level of tolerance when that collection or use of storage is intrinsically and fundamentally linked to the service that you’re providing itself. In Aadhaar’s case, they said the purpose itself was the database,” Prasanna said. He explained that Aadhaar was planned as a database first and the use cases for this data came later, whereas Worldcoin, based on what it claims, has a clear reason for collecting this data, “the design of the service is such that unless you give this [biometric data], we cannot ensure uniqueness. The design of the service is linked to the exercise of databasing itself.”

Because of the specificity of the purpose and the optionality of the service, Prasanna said that he isn’t as worried about Aadhaar. He mentioned, “many of the problems that we had with Aadhaar are not going to particularly afflict the Worldcoin Project,” and added that this is because the Worldcoin project had optionality associated with it: you can choose not to sign up.

He did, however, add that this project is going to have its own problems as the project progresses. “The problem with this is that traditionally, we’ve been successful in building accountability structures for the state. Even when the state attempts as outrageous a project as Aadhaar, it doesn’t concern us as much, mainly because we know that the state is still on our leash,” he said. He added that structures such as judicial review ensure accountability of the state, “but when a private corporation does this [collects biometric data], the regulatory regime is generally very superficial.”

It is worth noting that your iris and facial scan can be stored if you opt for “data custody” in the Worldcoin app. Doing so gives TFH and third-party vendors access to your data. Worldcoin says that TFH would only use “as much data as is needed to perform specific tasks and duties and have a system of strict access control.” Further, it says that it would only disclose data to those third-party vendors whose services it relies on to process data and provide its services.

Prasanna said that in both the data protection regime and the new digital personal data protection act, companies need to allow people the option to delete or correct the data being collected and that “their [the company’s] policy will need to specify how that correction and erasure can happen.” Worldcoin upholds this requirement as well. It says , “Your biometric data is not linked to any of your personal information, your iris code, or your wallet. If you choose to back up your biometric data with us, you may revoke your consent [emphasis ours] at any time and the data will be deleted.” So, based on what the company says, even if your iris scan cannot be deleted, it has nothing to do with your biometric data.

While Abbas addressed the legality question with respect to currently applicable data protection laws, the criteria for collecting sensitive personal data stay the same in the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, which was notified before the Lok Sabha on August 11. The bill says that consent must be a “freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication” of the user’s agreement.

Worldcoin has put in place a consent form that users can go through before they hand over their biometric data to the company. The form says that you can sign up for the Worldcoin app without Orb verification as well, but if you choose to follow this route, “you will not be able to use certain features in the App, such as claiming your share of WLD for free.” If you agree to undergo an Orb verification, you allow Worldcoin to “collect images of your irises, eyes, and face when you sign up at an Orb.” It further mentions that the Image Data is deleted after the Orb creates the IrisCode based on your iris image. However, once a unique iris code is created, it “cannot be deleted anymore (if we were to delete it, the proof of uniqueness would not work),” the consent form reads. So the company is making sure that those handing over their biometric data are doing so in an informed manner.

Worldcoin also defines a clear purpose for which it is collecting data: it says that this data collection is in its “interest to defend ourselves [Worldcoin] against fraudulent users that illegally try to sign-up more than once.” It says that the collected data will not be shared with anyone not working on the Worldcoin project and will not be sold or used to track the user or advertise third parties’ products to them.

So all in all, Worldcoin’s collection of user data in India appears to be legal .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event