Respondent: Shri Sunil Kumar Agarwal, Additional Director General and CPIO,
present in person and Smt. Amita Bindru, Deputy Director and CPIO, present
over VC. Information Sought: Headquaters, New Delhi. Grounds for Complaint

The CPIO did not provide the desired information. Submissions made by Complainant and Respondent during Hearing: Hearing: wise reply/information has already been provided to the appellant. The
reply was read out. 10. The respondent stated that the appellant had sought information
about third party, and the same cannot be disclosed under Section
8(1)(j) of the RTI Act and Section 28(5) and Section 29(3)(b) of the
Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits
and Services) Act, 2016. 11. The respondent further stated that the appellant in a related case
had filed second appeal before CIC under case no.
CIC/MOCIT/A/2016/277025 dated 27.07.2017 titled as R Pullam Raju
Vs. CPIO, UIDAI which came up for hearing on 11.08.2017 requesting
certified copies of the documents submitted by Sh. Rudraraju
Seetharama Raju S/o. Late Sh. Ramaraju while obtaining aadhaar
number. The respondent stated that this Commission in its order had
observed that, "no larger public interest was involved in the matter."
The Commission further advised the respondent to investigate the
matter and take action as per their policy. If necessary, they should
suspend/cancel the aadhaar and send an advice to the State Govt.
about this. 12. The respondent stated that an investigation was carried out by
their office regarding the documents submitted by Sh. Rudraraju
Seetharama for aadhaar number ending with 6908 and it was found
that the documents submitted were in accordance with UIDAI
guidelines. The respondent stated that same was informed to the
appellant on 17.10.2017. The respondent stated that action taken on
the complaint of the appellant has been informed to him. Discussion/ observation: 13. The action/steps taken by the respondent in dealing with the RTI
application is satisfactory, as the outcome of the complaint has been
informed to the appellant. The Commission observed that other queries 4 File no.: CIC/UIDAI/C/2018/107313

 of the appellant is personal information of third party which is exempted
 from disclosure under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. Decision: 14. No further intervention of the Commission is required in the matter.
 The appeal is disposed of. Copy of the decision be given free of cost to
 the parties." The Commission would like to rely upon the decision of the Supreme Court In Ramrameshwari Devi v. Nirmala Devi , (2011) 8 SCC 249, in which it has held
 that the Courts have to take into consideration pragmatic realities and have to
 be realistic in imposing the costs. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are reproduced hereunder:- It appears that the Complainant has grossly misconceived the idea of exercising his
right to Information as being absolute and unconditional and is rather resorting to
misuse of this Act to settle some personal grievance against his brother. In this
context, the Commission finds it pertinent to rely on the following decisions: Similarly, in ICAI v. Shaunak H. Satya, (2011) 8 SCC781 the Hon'ble Supreme Court
has held that:- In the matter of Rajni Maindiratta- Vs Directorate of Education (North West - B)
[W.P.(C) No. 7911/2015] the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has held that: In the matter of Shail Sahni vs Sanjeev Kumar [W.P.(C) 845/2014] wherein the
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has held that: The complainant should know that the RTI Act is a means to promote public interest
and should not to be used as an instrument to harass the public authority and to
handle personal grievances. His RTI applications have a grave impact on the
functioning of UIDAI and if this is allowed, the public authority cannot focus on their
core duties and their entire time will be devoted to such frivolous/vexatious/
repeated/multiple RTI questions. This is undoubtedly misuse and it has to be
checked. The nature of queries in all of these matters is such that largely seeks information
regarding action taken on the appellant's multiple representations mostly dealing
with the aadhar card given to his brother by UIDAI . A coordinate bench of the Commission in the matter of Ex MWO S P Bajpaivs CPIO,
Dept of Personal Services vide decision dated 24.10.2018 held as follows: Decision: