R E P O R T A B L E : CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 19 Learned counsel and the petitioner, present in

person, have given reference of other parts of the report

also to show not only discrepancies but an effort to make

report to fulfill the wishes of the State Government. A reference of the 9th report of the State

Backward Class Commission has also been given apart from

the reference of the report of Justice Jasraj Chopra

Committee. It is to show variation in recommendations. Learned counsel as well as the petitioner in person

have made elaborate arguments in reference to various

judgments of the Apex Court and the recommendations of

the SBC Commission, which would be considered while

referring to the rival arguments of the parties. The locus of the petitioners in maintaining writ

petitions has also been explained. The petitioners Captain Gurvinder Singh and

others were litigant earlier also when not only Public Interest

Litigation but other petitions were decided by the Division

Bench of this Court. The Court, in its earlier judgment dated

22nd December, 2010 left all the issues open for its decision

and gave liberty to the petitioners to raise it again, if so
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 20 required. The petitioners were given liberty to represent and

raise all the issues before the SBC Commission also. Their

representations were allowed even by the SBC Commission,

thus issue of locus has unnecessarily been raised by the

private respondents. It is moreso when the petitioner Nos.2 &

3 in the case of Captain Gurvinder Singh & Ors. are

government employees and would be affected by the Act of

2015, thus have locus to challenge it. The summary of the issues raised for challenge to

the report of SBC Commission are as follows :- 4. No study has been conducted by the SBC Commission as

 regards to "Nomadic" status of SBC communities. The

 report is given only on the basis of old record. 5. The Commission has relied on outdated data of the year

 1931. 6. The Commission sought and provided representation of

 various castes in few services only. It was only for 24

 services out of 117. The State Government thus failed

 to provide proper data of representation of various

 castes in the services. 7. The services under different Government Corporations,

 Local Self Bodies and other autonomous bodies have

 been taken on pick- and-choose basis. 8. The SBC Commission failed to consider that reservation

 to the OBC was provided in the year 1993 and few

 castes were added in the year 2000-2001, such as

 "Jats" etc. Their representation in services prior to

 2000-2001 has not been considered to arrive at proper
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 22 ratio of their representation in services. 9. The SBC Commission further failed to consider effect

 of reservation on the efficiency of administration. As

 per the Constitution and dictum of the Apex Court, the

 report should incorporate as to whether reservation

 would affect efficiency of administration. If the

 efficiency of administration is affected, reservation

 cannot be recommended. 10. No reasons have been given to provide category of

 special backward class to five castes when they were

 already getting benefit of reservation for last many

 years and Gujjars were getting adequate

 representation. 11. The SBC Commission has considered the case of around

 58 different courses of few colleges with few students,

 whereas, there are more than 4 lac students. The

 survey of all the educational courses has not been

 conducted. As per the statements/tables considered in the

report, 42 castes are having representation in the public

employment below the representation of "Gurjar/Gujjar" After the judgment aforesaid, the State Government

entered into an agreement with the IDS to collect

quantifiable and comparative data of 82 different castes in

respect of social, educational and economical backwardness

and their representation in government services. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 27 Pursuant to the agreement, the IDS submitted its

report on 31st May 2011. The Government of Rajasthan

thereupon constituted Rajasthan SBC Commission to make a

report in consonance with the judgment of High Court dated

22nd December, 2010. The SBC Commission submitted its

report in the month of November, 2012. Five castes were

identified for providing 5 per cent reservation by taking them

in Special Backward Class category. The State Government, thereupon, issued an order on

30th November, 2012 to provide five percent reservation to

Special Backward Class in the educational institutions as well

as in services under the State of Rajasthan. A challenge to

the said order and the report submitted by IDS was made.

The other writ petition was to challenge certain provisions of

the Act of 2008. This Court passed an interim order on 29 th

January, 2013, whereby, operation of the order as well as the

Notification was stayed till disposal of the petition. The State Government filed an application for

clarification as well as for modification of the interim order.

The High Court was pleased to clarify its order for 01 per

cent reservation in favour of the special backward class. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 28 The State Government, thereupon, issued Notification

to bring the Act of 2015 and is under challenge. The Act of

2015 provides 5 per cent reservation to five castes in the

category of special backward class. The Act was given effect

from 16th October, 2015. The challenge to the Notification as well as the Act of

2015 apart from the report of the SBC Commission etc. has

been made. The challenge to the Act of 2015 has been made on

misconception of ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation. The

reservation is permissible beyond 50 per cent under the

Constitution and judgments of the Supreme Court. Learned

counsel for petitioners have failed to take proper

interpretation of the constitutional provisions as well as the

judgments of the Apex Court while advancing the arguments

for challenge to the Notification of 2015. Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution of India do not prescribe any

numerical limit on reservation. In the case of Indra Sawhney

(supra), the Apex Court held that reservation should not

ordinarily exceed 50 per cent. The judgment of the Apex

Court in the case of M.R.Balaji & Ors. (supra) was clarified
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 29 from binding rule of ceiling of 50 per cent to mere rule of

prudence. The Apex Court, however, carved out exceptional

circumstances to permit reservation beyond 50 per cent. It is

in an extra ordinary situation. The ceiling of 50 per cent on

reservation is an ordinary rule, excess to it is an exception,

hence, ceiling of 50 per cent has not been put either by the

Constitution of India or by the Apex Court. A reference of Article 16(4) of the Constitution of

India has also been given. It does not preclude the State

Government to provide reservation beyond 50 percent. 81st Constitutional Amendment in the year 2000 has not

made any change in the law laid down by the Apex Court in the

case of Indra Sawhney (supra). It was to clarify that for

"carry-forward vacancies", reservation can exceed to 50 per

cent. The Parliament thus introduced Article 16(4B) of the

Constitution of India for carry forward reserve vacancies and

not to put ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation. The challenge to the Article 16(4A) and 16(4B) of the

Constitution of India was decided by the Apex Court in the

case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra). The petitioners have relied

on certain paras of the judgment in the case of M.Nagaraj &
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 30 Ors. (supra) to urge ceiling of 50 per cent as a strict rule.

The Apex Court in the said case followed the judgment of

Indra Sawhney (supra) on ceiling limit of 50 per cent. It is to

be applied ordinarily but can exceed under extra ordinary

situation, thus it is incorrect to submit ceiling of 50 per cent

on reservation. A further reference of the judgment in the case of S.V. Joshi & Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka reported in

(2012) 7 SCC 41 has been given. There, depending on the

quantifiable data, reservation beyond 50 per cent has been

made permissible. The petitioners have not considered Article 16 (4B) of

the Constitution of India with the object, it was inserted. Article 16(4B) of the Constitution of India refers about

ceiling of 50 per cent reservation for backlog vacancies. It

has to be read in reference to the judgment of the Apex

Court in the case of Indra Sawhney (supra). The ceiling of 50

per cent on reservation is a general rule but exception has

been allowed in para 810 of the said judgment. In view of the

above, Article 16 (4B) of the Constitution of India does not

propound theory of ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation. A
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 31 reference of the judgment of the Division Bench in Writ

Petition No.13491/2009 decided on 22 nd December, 2010 has

also been given where challenge to the Act of 2008 was not

accepted on the aforesaid ground. If the directions given

therein are considered properly, it permits reservation

beyond 50 percent but should be based on quantifiable data. The respondent State Government had revisited

Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 2008. The SBC Commission

could collect quantifiable data before recommending

reservation for special backward classes thus the challenge

to the Notification and the Act of 2015 on the ground of

ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation is not tenable. Learned Solicitor General and Additional Advocate

General Mr.Rajendra Prasad, appearing for the State of

Rajasthan, further submitted that after the judgment of the

Division Bench in the first bunch of writ petitions, the State

Government entered into an agreement with the IDS for

collection of quantifiable datas of 82 different castes

included the category of other backward classes. The IDS is

a reputed autonomous organisation in the field of social

surveys. The report of the IDS has been indirectly endorsed
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 32 by the Apex Court in the case of Ram Singh & Ors. Vs.

Union of India reported in (2015) 4 SCC 697. The IDS

submitted its report in the month of June, 2012 based on

quantifiable data. The said report was placed before the SBC

Commission. The Commission thereafter gave its report. The

legislative wisdom was invoked to provide 5 per cent

reservation to special backward classes vide impugned

Notification and the Act of 2015. A challenge to the report of the SBC Commission has

been made in ignorance of the quantifiable data. It was in

respect of all the issues, namely, backwardness, inadequacy of

representation as well as effect on the efficiency of

administration. The Commission as well as the State

Government could make out an exceptional case to exceed to

the ceiling of 50 per cent. The extra ordinary circumstances

have been given to provide 5 percent special reservation to

five castes. Para 810 of the judgment in the case of Indra Sawhney

(supra) was referred specifically to reinforce the arguments

on the ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation.

The castes included in the category of special backward
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 33 classes are "Nomadic", resulting in severe backwardness. The

historical background of those castes was also taken into

consideration by the SBC Commission. A case of special

reservation in their favour has thus made out. The data provided by the IDS were taken into

consideration by the SBC Commission meticulously. It did not

accept the data blindly, rather serious criticism to the

methodology adopted by the IDS has been made. It shows

independence of the Commission apart from the application of

mind to draw proper conclusions for recommendations of

special reservation in favour of five castes. The Commission had considered various historical

documents, research papers, representation of different

castes in services and data pertaining to admission in the

educational institutions. In doing so, if some discrepancy had

occurred, it deserves to be condoned as held by the Apex

Court in the case of Ram Singh & Ors. (supra). A small

discrepancy should not be accepted to doubt the correctness

of the report. The petitioners have given reference of various

castes, which are having no representation or lessor

representation in the services as well as in the educational
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 34 courses as compared to the Gurjars/Gujjars and other four

castes, which have been given special reservation. It is to

show that despite no representation or lessor representation

of other castes, recommendations in their favour have not

been made. The aforesaid argument is based by misplaced

understanding of law. As per the judgment of the Apex Court,

issue relating to the backwardness, inadequacy of

representation in service and educational institutions apart

from effect on the efficiency in the administration is to be

seen. In view of the above, the recommendations of the

Commission may not be set aside. Learned Senior Advocate Mr.Ashok Gaur, appearing for

the respondent No.4, raised objection about locus standi of

the petitioner Captain Gurvinder Singh. It is submitted that

no fundamental or legal rights of the petitioner have been

infringed. To maintain the writ petition, the petitioner should

fall in the definition of "person aggrieved". The petitioner is

not one who can be said to be "person aggrieved". A reference

of the judgment in the case of Calcutta Gas Company Pvt.

Ltd. Vs. State of West Bengal reported in AIR 1962 SC

1044 has been given apart from the judgment in the case of
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 35 Ayaabkhan Noorkhan Pathan VS. State of Maharashtra

reported in 2013(4) SCC 465. It is further stated that report of the SBC Commission

of the November, 2012 has not been challenged. In absence

of challenge to the report of the SBC Commission,

consequential Notification and enactment cannot be

challenged. It is settled proposition of law that without

challenging the basic order, consequential order or

Notification cannot be challenged. The infirmity in the report

can be shown only when it is challenged and not otherwise,

thus the arguments for challenge to the report should not be

accepted in absence of its challenge. To support the

arguments, a reference of the judgment in the case of

Edukanti Kistamma (Dead) through LRs Vs. Venatareddy

(Dead ) through LRs reported in 2010(1) SCC 756 has been

given. Learned Senior Counsel urged about limited scope of

judicial review, if the report is prepared by an expert body.

The report submitted by the Commission is based on

historical background, surveys, quantifiable and comparative

data of backwardness of all the five castes. The sufficiency
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 36 or insufficiency of data should not be examined by this Court

unless the report reflects a perverse or impossible view. The

report has been given after hearing of all the parties and was

accepted by the Government. A reference of the judgment in the case of Heinz

India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in

2012(5) SCC 443 apart from the judgment in the case of Ratan Lal Bagri Vs. State of Rajasthan reported in

2016(1) WLC (Raj.) 618 has been given. The interpretation of Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the

Constitution of India has not been taken correctly for

assailing the Act of 2015. Both the provisions give power to

provide reservation and ceiling of 50 per cent is not provided

therein for appointment in services and admission in the

educational institutions. After 81st amendment in the

Constitution of India, a challenge to it was made. The Apex

Court upheld the constitutional amendment. It has permitted

reservation beyond 50 per cent thus the argument of learned

counsel for the petitioners about ceiling of 50 per cent on

reservation in services is not tenable. The SBC Commission

found extraordinary reasons to provide reservation beyond
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 37 50 percent. It is based on quantifiable data collected through

an agency deployed by the State of Rajasthan and also after

getting data from the State. The judgment in the case of B.Archana Reddy & Ors. Vs. State of AP reported in

2005(6) ALT 364 has also been referred. Learned counsel further submitted that in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra), Suraj Bhan Meena Vs. State of

Rajasthan reported in 2011( 1) SCC 647 and UP Power

Corporation Vs. Rajesh Kumar reported in 2012 (7) SCC 1,

ceiling of 50 per cent has not been imposed on the

reservation. The alleged limit of 50 per cent is not otherwise

provided under Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India. The report submitted by the SBC Commission shows

extraordinary reasons in favour of five castes. The

quantifiable data collected shows social and educational

backwardness of all the five castes. It is apart from the

inadequacy of representation in government services so as in

the educational courses. The reservation is not going to cause

adverse effect on efficiency of administration, thus triple

tests to justify special reservation in favour of five castes

have been satisfied by the Commission. The Commission has
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 38 considered all the relevant issues and even the judgments of

Apex Court, thus it has made compliance of the judgment of

Division Bench of this Court. Learned counsel has further made a reference of the

report of SBC Commission to show that a proper procedure

was adopted to get relevant quantifiable data. Nine factors

were taken into consideration before making

recommendations. Chapter Six of the report talks about

traditional and social background of five castes, whereas,

Chapter nine makes analysis of quantifiable data. The reference of indicators adopted by the IDS has

rightly been taken into consideration, though the report of

IDS was earlier held to be not reliable. The details were still

relevant, thus taken into consideration to show inadequate

representation in services and their educational

backwardness. Learned counsel Dr. Manish Singhvi, appearing for

Gadiya Lohars, has also opposed the writ petitions. It is

submitted that the argument of ceiling of 50 per cent

advanced in the case of Indra Sahwney (supra) is no longer

applicable after 81st amendment in the Constitution of India. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 39 The object and reasons in bringing 81 st amendment in

the Constitution of India was referred. A reference of

judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Indra Sahwney

(supra) has been given where ceiling of 50 per cent was taken

as a general rule without exclusion of backlog vacancies. The

purpose of Article 16(4B) of the Constitution of India is not

to apply as ceiling of 50 per cent on backlog vacancies . It was

to overcome from the judgment in the case of Indra Sahwney

(supra). The ceiling of 50 per cent on the vacancies of a given

year can be complied by carry forward of excess vacancies

above 50 per cent. Even ceiling of 50 per cent emphasised by

the Apex Court in the case of Indra Sahwney (supra) is with

just exception. The Apex Court in the subsequent judgment

has permitted reservation above 50 per cent, if

extraordinary reasons exists thus reservation beyond 50 per

cent is permissible. Learned counsel Dr.Manish Singhvi has made a

reference of Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India, which

provides reservation in educational institutions. The aforesaid

provision is not subject to Article 16(4B) of the Constitution
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 40 of India. Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India does not

provide ceiling, as alleged to have been imposed under Article

16(4B) of the Constitution of India, yet it has been

challenged by the petitioners. In the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra), the Apex

Court has taken cognizance of excessive reservation. The

extent of reservation has been left open and to be decided on

the facts of each case. The aforesaid judgment was

subsequent to the constitutional amendment thus applies to

the present case. The judgment in the case of S.V. Joshi (supra) permits reservation beyond 50 percent if quantifiable

data exists. In the case of Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra), the

State Authorities failed to supply quantifiable data to

support reservation beyond 50 percent thus judgment

aforesaid was given on its own facts. A reference of judgment of Division Bench of this

Court in Special Appeal No.13491/2009 dated 22nd February,

2010 has also been given to show that reservation beyond 50

percent is permitted if quantifiable data are available. In the

background aforesaid, neither the Constitution of India nor

the Apex Court and even this Court have put a cap of 50 per
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 41 cent on reservation for admission in the institutions and

service. The argument on the scope of judicial review of the

report of the SBC Commission has also been made. In the

case of Ram Singh (supra), it is held that recommendation of

the expert committee is ordinarily binding on the State

Government. In the present case, the SBC Commission has

given a detailed report by making out an exceptional case for

5 per cent reservation to special backward classes. The

report was accepted by the Government to provide

reservation thus the Court should be slow to interfere in the

recommendations made by the SBC Commission being an

expert body. The judicial review of the report is not

permissible. The petitioners have made reference of those

judgments where the Court interfered in the reservation

because quantifiable data were not collected by the State

Government prior to reservation in services. In case of Himachal Pradesh Scheduled Tribes

Employees Federation & Anr. Vs. Himachal Pradesh

Samanaya Varg Karamchari Kalyan Mahasandh & Ors. reported in (2013) 10 SCC 308, the Supreme Court
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 42 permitted reservation once the quantifiable datas are made

available, which is the case herein also. In the case of Sardar

Inder Singh Vs. State of Rajasthan reported in 1957 SCR

605, it is held that matters, exclusively in the domain of

legislature, are not open for determination by the Court. Learned counsel has shown element of "public interest" Justice Jasraj Chopra Committee and Kaka Kelkar

Committee have also highlighted and recommended for special

treatment to Gadiya Lohars. The plight of the community has

been considered by the SBC Commission in its report to

provide special reservation to them. It is also urged that even if there are deficiencies in

the SBC Commission report, it may be ignored as they are not

significant. The Gadiya Lohars are socially as well as

educationally backward having inadequate representation in

services and in the educational institutions. The clarification about reservation in OBC and SBC

categories to five castes has also been made. It is submitted

that after 5 per cent special reservation to five castes, they

would not be entitled to the reservation meant for OBC and

one percent surviving under the Act of 2008. The five castes

would be entitled to the reservation only in their own

category created in pursuance of the Act of 2015 thus

confusion created by the petitioners is without any basis and

otherwise to be clarified by this Court. Looking to the

aforesaid, the writ petitions deserve to be dismissed. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 44 We have considered rival submissions of learned counsel

for respective parties and scanned the record carefully. The bunch of writ petitions have been filed to challenge

the Notification dated 16th October, 2015 and the Act of

2015. The writ petitions also challenge the order dated 06 th

May, 2010 to provide one percent reservation in favour of

special backward classes and also the report dated 15 th

December, 2007 given by Justice Jasraj Chopra (retired)

Committee. A challenge to the OBC Commission report of

November, 2012 has also been made in one writ petition with

further prayer to constitute a permanent statutory body as

per directions of the Apex Court in the case of Indra

Sawhney (supra). The challenge to the aforesaid is made on various

grounds, however, before considering the issues raised by the

petitioners, it would be proper to give facts of the case.

(1) Resume of the facts :- The High Powered Committee submitted its

report on 15th December, 2007. The State Government

considered the said report and, thereupon, the Rajasthan

Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes,

Special Backward Classes and Economically Backward
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 46 Classes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions in

the State and of Appointments and Posts in Services

under the State) Act, 2008 was brought. Under the Act of

2008, total 68 percent reservation was provided for

admission in the educational institutions and services. The

reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes

and Backward Classes was maintained to the extent of 16, 12

and 21 per cent respectively. Five per cent reservation was

provided for special backward class, whereas, 14 per cent for

economically backward classes. The State Government,

thereupon, issued another Notification on 25 th August, 2009

and made amendment in Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 2008

to include four other castes therein, namely, (i)

Banjara/Baladiya/Labana, (ii) Gadia Luhar/Gadolia, (iii)

Gujar/Gurjar and (iv) Raika/Raibari (Devashi). The challenge

to the Act of 2008 was made by Captain Gurvinder Singh and

others through a writ petition. The High Court passed an

interim order on 12th October, 2009 to restrain reservation

above 50 per cent. The writ petition bearing No.13491/2009 and

connected writ petitions were decided by this Court vide
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 47 judgment dated 22nd December, 2010. The Division Bench of

this Court found that High Powered Committee headed by

Justice Jasraj Chopra (retired) did not provide adequate

data. The writ petition was disposed of with the following

directions, which are summarised hereunder : After the judgment dated 22nd December, 2010,

the Government entered into an agreement with the IDS on

31st May, 2014. It was for collection of quantifiable and

comparative data of 82 different castes falling in the

category of other backward classes. It is to assess their

social, educational and economic backwardness apart from

their representation in the government services. The IDS

submitted its report in the month of June, 2012. The State Government, vide its order dated 07 th

June, 2012 and 08th June, 2012, nominated members and

Chairperson of Rajasthan Special Backward Classes

Commission. The SBC Commission was directed to submit
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 49 report within a period of one year. The SBC Commission

submitted its report in the month of November, 2015 itself,

i.e., within five months after its constitution. The SBC

Commission recommended 5 per cent special reservation to

five castes, out of which, four castes were included by the

State Government vide its Notification dated 25 th August,

2009. The Government of Rajasthan issued an order on 30 th

November, 2012 to provide 5 per cent special reservation to

five castes recommended by the SBC Commission. It invited

fresh litigation. The petitioner - Captain Gurvinder Singh

filed a writ petition bearing No.1862/2013 and the other writ

petition was by Mukesh Solanki bearing No.520/2013. It was

to challenge Sections 3 & 4 of the Act of 2008 as well as the

order dated 30th November, 2012 etc.

 The Division Bench of this Court passed an

interim order on 29th January, 2013 against the government

order and the Notification dated 30th November, 2012. The

operation of the order was stayed till disposal of the petition.

The State Government moved an application for

modification/clarification of the interim order. The Division

Bench of this Court, vide its order dated 04 th March, 2013,
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 50 permitted the Government to provide one per cent

reservation in favour of special backward class but the

application for vacation of stay order was dismissed. The State Legislature, thereupon, issued a

Notification dated 16th October, 2015. It was to bring

Rajasthan Special Backward Classes (Reservation of Seats

in Educational Institutions in the State and of

Appointments and Posts in Services under the State) Act,

2015. The present three writ petitions have been filed

to challenge the said Notification and the Act of 2015 apart

from the report of SBC Commission in one writ petition and

the report of Justice Jasraj Chopra Committee. After filing of the present writ petitions, the

Division Bench of this Court dismissed the writ petition

bearing No.1862/2013 after rendering it to be infructuous

but with liberty to raise all the issues in the present writ

petition, which was filed prior to disposal of the earlier writ

petition. The resume of the facts shows that after

Gurjar/Gujjars' agitation, the Government has issued various
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 51 orders and Notifications apart from enactment in the year

2008 and, now the Act of 2015 to provide special reservation

to five castes, earlier getting reservation in the category of

OBC. It is by carving out a special category called as special

backward class. The reservations to different categories are

now as follows : (iv) Special Backward Classes - 5 percent

 The petitioners have raised various grounds to

challenge the Notification dated 16th October, 2015 and the

Act of 2015 apart from the reports of Justice Jasraj Chopra

Committee and of the SBC Commission. It is not only in

reference to constitutional provisions but the judgments of

the Apex Court. The objections to the maintainability of the

writ petition/s have been raised. (2) Locus standi of the petitioners :- The para, quoted above, shows various directions and,

therein, the petitioners were also ordered to be given

opportunity to present their case before the SBC Commission

in accordance with law. It is not in dispute that Captain

Gurvinder Singh and others were given an opportunity of

hearing by SBC Commission. In the second inning of litigation by Captain Gurvinder

Singh and others, the writ petition bearing No.1862/2013 was

decided vide order dated 04th February, 2016 along with

another writ petition of Mukesh Solanki. There, the writ

petitions were rendered infructuous in view of the

Notification and the Act under challenge but after noticing

pendency of the present writ petition. The petitioners were

given liberty to raise all the issues in the present writ
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 56 petition. The directions given in both the judgments were not

assailed by any of the parties, thus became final. In the light

of the aforesaid, Captain Gurvinder Singh and others cannot

be non-suited on the ground of their locus. It is moreso when

petitioner No.4 is a registered society, which is created with

the object to claim equality amongst the citizens thus it

cannot be said that petitioners do not fall in the definition of

"person aggrieved". The respondent No.4 has given reference of the

judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Calcutta Gas

Company Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and also in the case of Ayaabkhan

Noorkhan Pathan (supra) to support his arguments. The

judgment aforesaid has no application to the facts of this

case. In the case of Ayaabkhan Noorkhan Pathan (supra), the

challenge was to a caste certificate of an individual in the

hands of a stranger. The Apex Court held that stranger

should not be permitted to meddle in the proceedings against

an individual unless he falls in the category of aggrieved

person. The legal right of the petitioners herein has been
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 57 canvassed. The petitioner Nos. 2 & 3 in the petition of

Captain Gurvinder Singh & Ors. are in service, thus affected

by reservation to special backward classes and the petitioner

No.4 is a registered society to espouse the cause for equality.

Their legal rights have been earlier recognised, thus not only

this Court but the SBC Commission has given opportunity of

hearing to them, hence, the objection regarding

maintainability of the writ petition on the ground of locus

standi of the petitioners cannot be accepted. Accordingly,

the objection regarding maintainability of the writ petition

on the ground of locus standi is decided against the private

respondents. The second objection is in regard to maintainability of

the writ petition in absence of challenge to the report of SBC

Commission. (3) In absence of challenge to the report of SBC

Commission, the consequential Notification and the Act of

2015 cannot be challenged :- The petitioners have challenged the Notification

dated 16th October, 2015 and the Act of 2015 apart from the

report of the SBC Commission providing reservation beyond

50 per cent in educational institutions as well as in public

employment. A reference of Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the

Constitution of India have been given apart from the

amendment made thereunder from time to time. The
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 61 judgments of the Apex Court as well as this Court apart from

other High Courts have been cited to substantiate the

arguments. The respondents have countered it by giving

interpretation to the provisions of the Constitution of India

and relied the judgments of the Apex Court. The issue aforesaid needs elaborate discussion

not only in reference to the judgments of the Apex Court but

the amendment made in the Constitution of India. It is, more

specifically, 81st amendment in the Constitution of India after

the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Indra

Sawheny (supra). For ready reference, Articles 15 and 16 of

the Constitution of India are quoted hereunder : Article 16 - Equality of opportunity in

matters of public employment : (1) There shall be equality of

 opportunity for all citizens in matters

 relating to employment or appointment

 to any office under the State. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 63 (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of

 religion, race, caste, sex, descent,

 place of birth, residence or any of

 them, be ineligible for, or

 discriminated against in respect or,

 any employment or office under the

 State. (3) Nothing in this article shall prevent

 Parliament from making any law

 prescribing, in regard to a class or

 classes of employment or appointment

 to an office under the Government of,

 or any local or other authority within,

 a State or Union territory, any

 requirement as to residence within

 that State or Union territory prior to

 such employment or appointment

(4) Nothing in this article shall prevent

 the State from making any provision

 for the reservation of appointments or

 posts in favor of any backward class of

 citizens which, in the opinion of the

 State, is not adequately represented

 in the services under the State. (4A) Nothing in this article shall prevent

the State from any provision for

reservation [in matters of promotion,
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 64 with consequential seniority, to any class]

or classes of posts in the services under

the State in favour of the Scheduled

Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which,

in the opinion of the State, are not

adequately represented in the services

under the State. (4B) Nothing in this article shall prevent

the State from considering any unfilled

vacancies of a year which are reserved

for being filled up in that year in

accordance with any provision for

reservation made under clause (4) or

clause (4A) as a separate class of

vacancies to be filled up in any

succeeding year or years and such class

of vacancies shall not be considered

together with the vacancies of the year

in which they are being filled up for

determining the ceiling of fifty per cent. Reservation on total number of

vacancies of that year. (5) Nothing in this article shall affect

 the operation of any law which

 provides that the incumbent of an

 office in connection with the affairs

 of any religious or denominational
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 65 institution or any member of the

 governing body thereof shall be a

 person professing a particular religion

 or belonging to a particular

 denomination." Article 15 of the Constitution prohibits

discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or

place of birth etc. Clause (3) of Article 15 , however, permits

the Government to make special provision for women and

children. Clause (4) of Article 15 permits the State

Government to make special provision for advancement of

socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for

the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The word

"socially and educationally backward classes of citizens" has

been used and not the socially and educationally backward

"caste" so as to avoid discrimination on the ground of religion

or caste. We find that the word "classes of citizens" has

been made interchangeable with the word "caste" to identify

socially and economically backward classes. The practice to

identify the caste for the "classes of citizens" has been

adopted from the beginning. It is in ignorance of the

constitutional mandate. The framers of the Constitution
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 66 never thought to divide society by caste or religion thus

specific prohibition for it was provided in Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution. The caste system is prevalent from the beginning

and was even in the knowledge of the framers of the

Constitution thus only Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution

put a bar on discrimination based on caste and religion to

avoid division of country by caste. While making amendment in Article 15 to bring Article 15(4) of the Constitution,

Parliament was cautious in using the word "classes of

citizens". Clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution was

brought to see advancement of socially and educationally

backward classes of citizens. The time has come to adhere to

the provisions of the Constitution in strict terms without

substitution of the word "classes of citizens" by "caste of

citizens". The reservation in educational courses as well as

public employment is prevalent for more than last six decades

and there is no exclusion of any caste, rather, there exists

inclusion of certain castes. It is expected of the Central as well as the State
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 67 Governments to revisit the system of reservation so that

socially and educationally backward classes of citizens can be

uplifted within time frame. It is by framing a proper policy.

The issue aforesaid was discussed by the Apex Court in the

case of M.R. Balaji & Ors. (supra). It is by providing financial

and other assistance to attract classes, who are socially or

educationally backward. The advancement of those categories

of citizens may not be only by way of reservation but by

evolving other methods as well. The financial assistance for

education would be for upliftment of the citizens with overall

development and, in doing so, they would not require any

reservation in due course of time resulting in overall

development of the country itself. The reservation should not be provided to achieve

political goals as it results in caste based agitation to bargain

with the Government. It was recently seen in the State of

Haryana where agitators disrupted normal life of the

citizens. It is time to review the policy by the legislature

with an aim to achieve the objects, for which, Constitution
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 68 was framed and, while doing so, Preamble of the Constitution

should be kept in mind. The Preamble refers to sovereign,

socialist, secular, democratic republic with equality of status

and liberty. The equality of status has been reflected in Articles 14 , 15 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The issue

raised by the petitioners in reference to Articles 15(4) or

16(4B) of the Constitution is to be viewed after keeping in

mind the Preamble of the Constitution of India. It is apart

from the judgments of the Apex Court on the issue. The judgment in the case of M.R. Balaji & Ors. (supra) is in reference to Article 15(4) of the Constitution of

India. In the said case, the State of Mysore was endeavoring

since 1958 to make special reservation for advancement of

socially and educationally backward classes of citizens. The

orders and Notifications for it were always challenged before

the Court, since then. The Apex Court found that the

Commission therein should have taken into consideration not

only traditional apathy but poverty and lack of education in

rural areas apart from many other issues to find out socially

and educationally backwardness of classes of citizens. It was

found that the Nagana Gowda Committee, constituted by the
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 69 State Government, had taken "caste" to be sole basis for

determination of socially and educationally backwardness of

the classes of citizens. It has also reiterated requirement of

both, socially and educationally backwardness, to attract Article 15(4) of the Constitution of India. In paras 21 to 29

of the judgment in the case of M.R. Balaji & Ors. (supra), the

issue of reservation, solely based on caste, has been

criticised and thereupon paras 30 to 34 deal with the extent

of reservation. Paras 21 to 23, 25, 29, 34, 35, 37 of the said

judgment are quoted hereunder for ready reference : reservation should and must be adopted

to advance the prospects of the weaker

sections of society, but in providing for

special measures in that behalf care

should be taken not to exclude admission

to higher educational centers to

deserving and qualified candidates of

other communities. A special provision

contemplated by Art. 15(4) like

reservation of posts and appointments

contemplated by Art. 16(4) must be

within reasonable limits. The interests of

weaker sections of society which are a

first charge on the states and the

centers have to be adjusted with the

interests of the community as a whole.

The adjustment of these competing

claims is undoubtedly a difficult matter,

but if under the guise of making a special

provision, a State reserves practically all

the seats available in all the colleges, that

clearly would be subverting the object of Art. 15(4). In this matter again, we are

reluctant to say definitely what would be

a proper provision to make. Speaking

generally and in a broad way, a special
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 78 provision should be less than 50%; how

much less than 50% would depend upon

the relevant prevailing circumstances in

each case. In this particular case it is

remarkable that when the State issued

its order on July 10, 1961, it emphatically

expressed its opinion that the reservation

of 68% recommended by the Nagan

Gowda Committee would not be larger

interests of the State. What happened

between July 10, 1961, and July 31, 1962,

does not appear on the record. But the

State changed its mind and adopted the

recommendation of the Committee

ignoring its earlier decision that the said

recommendation was contrary to the

larger interests of the State. In our

opinion, when the State makes a special

provision for the advancement of the

weaker sections of society specified in Art. 15(4) , it has to approach its task

objectively and in a rational manner.

Undoubtedly, it has to take reasonable

and even generous steps to help the

advancement of weaker elements; the

extent of the problem must be weighted,

the requirements of the community at

large must be borne in mind and a formula

must be evolved which would strike a

reasonable balance between the several
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 79 relevant considerations. Therefore, we

 are satisfied that the reservation of 68%

 directed by the impugned order is plainly

 inconsistent with Art. 15(4). 35. The petitioners contend that having regard to

 the infirmities in the impugned order, action of

 the State in issuing the said order amounts to a

 fraud on the Constitutional power conferred on

 the State by Art. 15(4). This argument is well-

 founded, and must be upheld. When it is said

 about an executive action that it is a fraud on

 the Constitution, it does not necessarily mean

 that the action is actuated by malafides. An

 executive action which is patently and plainly

 outside the limits of the constitutional authority

 conferred on the State in that behalf is struck

 down as being ultra vires the State's authority.

 If, on the other hand, the executive action does

 not patently or overtly transgress the authority

 conferred on it by the Constitution, but the

 transgression is covert or latent, the said action

 is struck down as being a fraud on the relevant

 constitutional power. It is in this connection that

 courts often consider the substance of the

 matter and not its form and in ascertaining the

 substance of the matter, the appearance or the

 cloak, or the veil of the executive action is

 carefully scrutinized and if it appears that

 notwithstanding the appearance, the cloak or the

 veil of the executive action, in substance and in
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 80 truth the constitutional power has been

 transgressed, the impugned action is struck down

 as a fraud on the Constitution. We have already

 noticed that the impugned order in the present

 case has categorised the Backward Classes on

 the sole basis of caste which, in our opinion, is

 not permitted by Art. 15(4); and we have also

 held that the reservation of 68% made by the

 impugned order is plainly inconsistent with the

 concept of the special provision authorised by Art. 15(4). Therefore, it follows that the

 impugned order is a fraud on the Constitutional

 power conferred on the State by Art. 15(4). 37. Whilst we are dealing with this question,

 it would be relevant to add to that the

 provisions of Art. 15(4) are similar to

 those of Art. 16(4) which fell to be

 considered in the case of The General

 Manager, Southern Railway v. Rangachari (1970)IILLJ289SC In that case, the

 majority decision of this Court held that

 the power of reservation which is

 conferred on the State under Art. 16(4) can be exercised by the State

 in a proper case not only by providing for

 reservation of appointments, but also by

 providing for reservation of selection

 posts. This conclusion was reached on the

 basis that it served to give effect to the
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 81 intention of the Constitutional-makers to

make adequate safeguards for the

advancement of Backward Classes and to

secure their adequate representation in

the Services. The judgment shows that

the only point which was raised for

decision of this Court in that case was

whether the reservation made was

outside Art. 16(4) and that posed the

bare question about the construction of Art. 16(4). The propriety, the

reasonableness or the wisdom of the

impugned order was not questioned

because it was not the respondent's case

that if the order was justified under Art. 16(4) , it was a fraud on the

Constitution. Even so, it was pointed out in

the judgment that the efficiency of

administration is of such a paramount

importance that it would be unwise and

impermissible to make any reservation at

the cost of efficiency of administration;

that, it was stated, was undoubtedly the

effect of Art. 335. Therefore, what is

true in regard to Art. 15(4) is equally true

in regard to Art. 16(4). There can be no

doubt that the Constitution-makers

assumed, as they were entitled to, that

while making adequate reservation under Art. 16(4) , care would be taken not to
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 82 provide for unreasonable, excessive or

 extravagant reservation, for that would,

 by eliminating general competition in a

 large field and by creating wide-spread

 dissatisfaction amongst the employees,

 materially affect efficiency. Therefore,

 like the special provision improperly made

 under Art. 15(4) , reservation made under Art. 16(4) beyond the permissible and

 legitimate limits would be liable to be

 challenged as a fraud on the Constitution.

 In this connection it is necessary to

 emphasis that Art. 15(4) is an enabling

 provision; it does not impose an obligation,

 but merely leaves it to the discretion of

 the appropriate government to take

 suitable action, if necessary." The Apex Court has not accepted caste to be the

sole basis to determine classes of citizens. It is not only in

Hindu religion but backwardness may exist in other religions,

like, Muslims, Christians, Jains and even Lingayats. They

cannot be provided benefit of reservation based on caste.

The extent of reservation has also been discussed

elaborately in paras 34 & 35 of the judgment , referred

above . A balance is required to be maintained between
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 83 two sets of citizens while applying Article 15(4) of the

Constitution. The reservation therein was provided to the

extent of 68 percent in the educational institutions, which

was not approved by the Apex Court. It was held to be

excessive, affecting other citizens. The Court was reluctant

to speak generally but, in a broad way, observed that

reservation should be less than 50 per cent. How much less

than 50 per cent would depend upon prevailing circumstances

of each State. The reservation to the extent of 68 per cent

was taken to be in violation of the constitutional powers

conferred on the State under Article 15(4) of the

Constitution. The Notification was struck down finding it to

be a fraud on the constitutional powers. In para 35, the Court observed about reservation

based on caste and to the extent of 68 per cent in few lines,

which are; we have already noticed that the impugned order in the

present case has categorised the Backward Classes on the sole basis of

caste which, in our opinion, is not permitted by Article 15(4) and we have

also held that the reservation of 68% made by the impugned order is

plainly inconsistent with the concept of the special provision authorised

by Article 15(4). Therefore, it follows that the impugned order is a

fraud on the Constitutional power conferred on the State by Article
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 84 15(4). The Apex Court has considered the issue of

extent of reservation from time to time. The judgment in the

case of Indra Sawhney (supra) has been referred by learned

Solicitor General of India to show that reservation beyond 50

per cent to be permissible. To appreciate the argument, we may now refer

the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Indra

Sawhney (supra). The question No.6 was framed to decide

extent of reservation. The discussion on the issue has been

made in paras 804 to 810 and they are quoted thus : Krishna Iyer, J. agreed with the view taken by

Fazal Ali, J. in the following words: Chinnappa Reddy, J. held that Thomas has the

effect of undoing the 50% rule in Balaji

whereas Venkataramiah, J. held that it does

not. 806. It is argued before us that the

observations on the said question in Thomas

were obiter and do not constitute a decision so

as to have the effect of overruling Balaji.

Reliance is also placed upon the speech of Dr.

Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly, where

he said that reservation must be confined to a

minority of seats (See para 28). It is also

pointed out that Krishna Iyer, J. who agreed

with Fazal Ali, J. in Thomas on this aspect,

came back to, and affirmed, the 50% rule in

Karamchari Sangh (at pp. 241 and 242). On the

other hand, it is argued for the respondents

that when the population of the other

backward classes is more than 50% of the

total population, the reservation in their

favour (excluding Scheduled Castes and

Scheduled Tribes) can also be 50%. 807. We must, however, point out that Clause

(4) speaks of adequate representation and not

proportionate representation. Adequate
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 91 representation cannot be read as

proportionate representation. Principle of

proportionate representation is accepted only

in Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution

and that too for a limited period. These

articles speak of reservation of seats in Lok

Sabha and the State Legislatures in favour of

Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes

proportionate to their population, but they are

only temporary and special provisions. It is

therefore not possible to accept the theory

of proportionate representation though the

proportion of population of backward classes

to the total population would certainly be

relevant. Just as every power must be

exercised reasonably and fairly, the power

conferred by Clause (4) of Article 16 should

also be exercised in a fair manner and within

reasonably limits - and what is more

reasonable than to say that reservation under

Clause (4) shall not exceed 50% of the

appointments or posts, barring certain extra-

ordinary situations as explained hereinafter.

From this point of view, the 27% reservation

provided by the impugned Memorandums in

favour of backward classes is well within the

reasonable limits. Together with reservation in

favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 92 Tribes, it comes to a total of 49.5%. In this

connection, reference may be had to the Full

Bench decision of the Andhra Pradesh High

Court in Narayan Rao v. State 1987 A.P. 53,

striking down the enhancement of reservation

from 25% to 44% for O.B.Cs. The said

enhancement had the effect of taking the

total reservation under Article16(4) to 65%. 808. It needs no emphasis to say that the

principle aim of Article 14 and 16 is equality

and equality of opportunity and that Clause (4)

of Article 16 is but a means of achieving the

very same objective. Clause (4) is a special

provision - though not an exception to Clause

(1). Both the provisions have to be harmonised

keeping in mind the fact that both are but the

restatements of the principle of equality

enshrined in Article 14. The provision under Article 16(4) - conceived in the interest of

certain sections of society - should be

balanced against the guarantee of equality

enshrined in Clause (1) of Article 16 which is a

guarantee held out to every citizen and to the

entire society. It is relevant to point out that

Dr. Ambedkar himself contemplated

reservation being "confined to a minority of

seats" (See his speech in Constituent

Assembly, set out in para 28). No other
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 93 member of the Constituent Assembly

 suggested otherwise. It is, thus clear that

 reservation of a majority of seats was never

 envisaged by the founding fathers. Nor are we

 satisfied that the present context requires us

 to depart from that concept. 809. From the above discussion, the

 irresistible conclusion that follows is that the

 reservations contemplated in Clause (4) of Article 16 should not exceed 50%. 810. While 50% shall be the rule, it is

 necessary not to put out of consideration

 certain extraordinary situations inherent in

 the great diversity of this country and the

 people. It might happen that in far-flung and

 remote areas the population inhabiting those

 areas might, on account of their being out of

 the main stream of national life and in view of

 conditions peculiar to and characteristical to

 them, need to be treated in a different way,

 some relaxation in this strict rule may become

 imperative. In doing so, extreme caution is to

 be exercised and a special case made out." Para 809, quoted above, shows irresistible

conclusion that reservations contemplated in Clause (4) of
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 94 Article 16 should not exceed 50 per cent. In para 810 of the

said judgment , ceiling of 50 per cent reservation was taken as

a rule, however, exception was carved out in extra ordinary

situations inherent in the great diversity of the country and

the people. The relaxation in strict rule of 50 per cent is to

be applied with extreme caution and if special case is made

out. The Apex Court therein considered the judgment of

Constitutional Bench in the case of M.R.Balaji & Ors. (supra)

and also the judgment in the case of State of Kerala & Anr.

Vs. N.M. Thomas & Ors. reported in (1976) 2 SCC 310 to

conclude ceiling of 50 per cent as a rule with exception in

extra ordinary situation. Sub-para 4 of para 860 of the

judgment in the case of Indra Sawhney (supra) is also quoted

hereunder for ready reference : In doing so, extreme caution is to be

 exercised and a special case made out.

 For applying this rule, the reservations should

 not exceed 50% of the appointments in a

 grade, cadre or service in any given year.

 Reservation can be made in a service or

 category only when the State is satisfied that

 representation of backward class of citizens

 therein is not adequate. To the extent, Devadasan is inconsistent

 herewith, it is over-ruled." In the light of the judgment of the Constitutional

Bench of the Apex Court in the case of Indra Sawhney
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 96 (supra), it can conveniently be concluded that ceiling of 50

per cent on reservation is to be taken as a rule but, in extra

ordinary situation, it would be permissible to exceed the

ceiling. While applying the relaxation to the general rule of

50 per cent, an extreme caution has to be taken. It is only

when special case is made out or there exists extra ordinary

situation. The Apex Court in the said judgment further

emphasised requirement of permanent body for entertaining,

examining, recommending for inclusion and exclusion of caste

in the list of other backward classes of citizens. The

permanent body was to be constituted within the period of

four months. The exclusion was also emphasised. The Apex Court in the case of Indra Sawhney

(supra) further considered the judgment in the case of T.Devadason Vs. Union of India & Anr. reported in AIR

1964 SC 179. The issue therein was in regard to carry

forward of vacancies in case it remained unfilled from

reserve category. It was held that ceiling of 50 per cent

should be applied as a rule and it would be even to carry

forward vacancies. The conclusion thereby was that even if
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 97 there are carry forward of vacancies, ceiling of 50 per cent

would be applied. When the vacancies are advertised, it may

include even backlog of vacancies, yet ceiling of 50 per cent

would be applicable thus no exception to ceiling was allowed

even for the backlog vacancies. The Apex Court has given an

illustration for it in para 817 of its judgment and conclusions

have been drawn in para 818. Both the paras are relevant thus

quoted hereunder for ready reference because subsequently

81st amendment in the Constitution of India was made in the

light of the observations made therein :- In our opinion, however, the result of

 application of carry forward rule, in whatever

 manner it is operated, should not result in

 breach of 50% rule. 81st amendment in the Constitution was brought on

09th June, 2000 and is relevant and to be seen in seriatim of

the events. The reference of objects and reasons in bringing

81st amendment in the Constitution has been given by learned

counsel Dr. Manish Singhvi. It is to nullify the effect of the

judgment putting ceiling of 50 per cent on backlog vacancies. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 101 The plain reading of Clause (4B) of Article 16 of the

Constitution of India, however, reveals that reference of

ceiling of 50 per cent has been given and is to be applied on

the vacancies of the year in which they are to be filled. The issue of reservation based on caste has been

elaborately discussed by the Apex Court in the case of

Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra), Indra Sawhney (supra) and M.R.Balaji (supra). It is with a direction of exclusion of caste

from Backward Class otherwise to be considered failure of

the system. The issue of period was also discussed. Para 666

in the case of Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra) is quoted

hereunder to sum up the issue : In view of the judgment of the Apex Court,

referred to above, ceiling of 50 per cent is to be taken as a

rule and exception can be in the extra ordinary situation when

a special case is made out. It is also that reservation should

not be made solely based on caste. The answer of the first

question is given accordingly. The finding aforesaid is not to

affect next issue in reference to Article 16(4B) of the

Constitution of India. (ii) whether Clause (4B) of Article

 16 of the Constitution of India

 can be construed to be

 constitutional amendment to

 provide ceiling of 50 per cent on

 the vacancy of a year? To make a proper interpretation of Clause (4B) of Article 16 of the Constitution, it has to be divided in two

parts. The first part is for backlog vacancies not to be

included in total vacancies of the year for ceiling of 50 per
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 104 cent. The second part makes a reference of vacancy of

the year in which it is to be filled for determination of ceiling

of 50 per cent reservation. The ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation would

accordingly be applicable on the vacancy of the year only in

which it is to be filled and not on the backlog vacancies. The

amendment does not relax ceiling of 50 per cent on the

vacancies of the year, in which, it is to be filled. Clause (4B)

of Article 16 of the Constitution of India has to be read

without inclusion or exclusion of words used therein. It is, however, argued on behalf of the State that

even if Article 16(4B) of the Constitution of India imposes

ceiling of 50 per cent, it is only for the vacancies which are

to be filled in that year. The provision can be enforced even

with 54 per cent reservation. While restricting the

reservation to the extent of 50 per cent on the vacancy of a

year, excess to be carried forward in the next year. By

undertaking the said exercise, Article 16(4B) of the

Constitution of India would not be violated. We have given due consideration to the arguments
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 105 aforesaid. In this regard, the meaning of "unfilled or backlog

vacancies" needs to be considered. The "backlog vacancies",

referred as "unfilled vacancies" are those which are reserved

for being filled in the year in accordance with Clause (4) or

Clause (4A) of Article 16 of the Constitution but remains

unfilled. It is to be taken as separate class of vacancies. It

may be due to non-availability of adequate number of reserve

category candidates or their failure to obtain required marks

in the selection, if provided. If it is assumed that 4 per cent vacancies are to

be considered as unfilled or backlog vacancies every year

then with carry forward of those vacancies every year, it

would accumulate and become more than 100 per cent after

few years leaving no vacancy for general category. The interpretation of Article 16(4B) of the

Constitution of India, given above, needs further

consideration in the light of the judgments of the Apex Court

and this Court subsequent to the constitutional amendment. The judgment in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) has been referred by learned counsel for respective

parties. The Apex Court has considered various issues in
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 106 reference to Article 16(4) , (4A) and (4B) of the Constitution

of India apart from Articles 14 , 15 , 335 , 368 and the

Preamble of the Constitution of India. It was in the matter of

promotion but general principles have been laid down by the

Constitutional Bench of the Apex Court in the case supra

after amendment in Article 16 of the Constitution of India. The reference of paras 55 to 57, 85, 88, 89, 95,

112, 116, 117, 119, 121 and 123 have been given by the

respondents, whereas, learned counsel for the petitioners

have given reference of paras 46, 51, 100, 102 of the said

judgment , however, this Court would refer the relevant paras

of the said judgment for proper evolution of the issue. In para 49 of the said judgment , the Apex Court

held that reservation is necessary for transcending caste and

not for perpetuating it. The reservation has to be used in a

limited sense otherwise it will perpetuate casteism in the

country. The observation regarding perpetuation of casteism

is of relevance and to be taken into consideration in

reference to passage of time, after independence. The State

as well as the Central Government are required to consider as

to whether continuance of reservation based on caste would
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 107 be in the interest of the country or it would perpetuate the

casteism. It may divide the country based on caste and would

be opposed to the idea of framers of the Constitution to

keep the nation one with equality between the citizens. In para 53 of the said judgment , the issue of

extent of reservation has been framed and, thereupon,

discussion was made in subsequent paras. Para Nos.53 to 59,

82, 83, 85, 88, 89 and 95 of the judgment in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) are quoted hereunder for ready

reference : CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 108 54.The question of extent of reservation is

closely linked to the issue whether Article

16(4) is an exception to Article 16(1) or is Article 16(4) an application of Article 16(1). If Article 16(4) is an exception to Article 16(1) then it needs to be given a limited application

so as not to eclipse the general rule in

Article16(1). But if Article 16(4) is taken as an

application of Article 16(1) then the two

articles have to be harmonized keeping in view

the interests of certain sections of the

society as against the interest of the

individual citizens of the society.

Maximum limit of reservation possible 55. Word of caution against excess

reservation was first pointed out in The

General Manager, Southern Railway and

Anr. v. Rangachari Gajendragadkar, J. giving

the majority judgment said that reservation

under Article 16(4) is intended merely to give

adequate representation to backward

communities. It cannot be used for creating

monopolies or for unduly or illegitimately

disturbing the legitimate interests of other

employees. A reasonable balance must be

struck between the claims of backward classes
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 109 and claims of other employees as well as the

requirement of efficiency of administration. 56. However, the question of extent of

 reservation was not directly involved in

 Rangachari. It was directly involved in M.R.

 Balaji and Ors. v. The State of Mysore

 and Ors. with reference to Article 15(4). In

 this case, 60% reservations under Article

 15(4) was struck down as excessive and

 unconstitutional. Gajendragadkar, J.

 observed that special provision should be

 less than 50 per cent, how much less would

 depend on the relevant prevailing

 circumstances of each case. 57. But in State of Kerala and Anr. v. N.M.

Thomas and Ors. (1976)ILLJ376SC Krishna

Iyer, J. expressed his concurrence to the

views of Fazal Ali, J. who said that although

reservation cannot be so excessive as to

destroy the principle of equality of

opportunity under Clause (1) of Article 16 , yet

it should be noted that the Constitution itself

does not put any bar on the power of the

Government under Article 16(4). If a State

has 80% population which is backward then it
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 110 would be meaningless to say that reservation

should not cross 50%. 58. However, in Indra Sawhney the majority

 held that the rule of 50 % laid down in Balaji was a binding rule and not a mere

 rule of prudence. 59. Giving the judgment of the Court in Indra

Sawhney, Reddy, J. stated that Article 16(4) speaks of adequate representation not

proportionate representation although

proportion of population of backward classes

to the total population would certainly be

relevant. He further pointed out that Article

16(4) which protects interests of certain

sections of society has to be balanced against Article 16(1) which protects the interests of

every citizen of the entire society. They

should be harmonised because they are

restatements of principle of equality under

Article14. (emphasis added). 82. Before dealing with the scope of the

constitutional amendments we need to recap

the judgments in Indra Sawhney and R.K.

Sabharwal . In the former case the majority

held that 50% rule should be applied to each

year otherwise it may happen that the open
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 111 competition channel may get choked if the

entire cadre strength is taken as a unit.

However in R.K. Sabharwal, this Court stated

that the entire cadre strength should be

taken into account to determine whether the

reservation up to the quota-limit has been

reached. It was clarified that the judgment in

Indra Sawhney was confined to initial

appointments and not to promotions. The

operation of the roster for filling the cadre

strength, by itself, ensure that the

reservation remains within the ceiling-limit of

50%. 83. In our view, appropriate Government has

to apply the cadre strength as a unit in the

operation of the roster in order to ascertain

whether a given class/group is adequately

represented in the service. The cadre

strength as a unit also ensures that upper

ceiling-limit of 50% is not violated. Further,

roster has to be post- specific and not

vacancy based. 85. The Supreme Court in its judgment dated

16.11.92 in Indra Sawhney stated that

reservation of appointments or posts under Article 16(4) is confined to initial appointment
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 112 and cannot extend to reservation in the

matter of promotion. Prior to the judgment in

Indra Sawhney reservation in promotion

existed. The Government felt that the

judgment of this Court in Indra Sawhney

adversely affected the interests of SCs and

STs in services, as they have not reached the

required level. Therefore, the Government

felt that it was necessary to continue the

existing policy of providing reservation in

promotion confined to SCs and STs alone. We

quote hereinbelow Statement of Objects and

Reasons with the text of the Constitution

(Seventy-Seventh Amendment) Act, 1995 introducing Clause (4A) in Article 16of the

Constitution: REASONS.-The Scheduled Castes and the

 Scheduled Tribes have been enjoying the

 facility of reservation in promotion since

 1955. The Supreme Court in its judgment

 dated 16th November, 1992 in the case of Indra Sawhney v. Union of India , however,

 observed that reservation of appointments

 or posts under Article 16(4) of the

 Constitution is confined to initial
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 113 appointment and cannot extent to

reservation in the matter of promotion.

This ruling of the Supreme Court will

adversely affect the interests of the

Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled

Tribes. Since the representation of the

Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes

in services in the States have not reached

the required level, it is necessary to

continue the existing dispensation of

providing reservation in promotion in the

case of the Scheduled Castes and the

Scheduled Tribes. In view of the

commitment of the Government to protect

the interests of the Scheduled Castes and

the Scheduled Tribes, the Government have

decided to continue the existing policy of

reservation in promotion for the Scheduled

Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. To carry

out this, it is necessary to amend Article 16 of the Constitution by inserting a new

Clause (4A) in the said Article to provide

for reservation in promotion for the

Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled

Tribes. 2. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid

object. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 114 An Act further to amend the Constitution

of India

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-

sixth Year of the Republic of India as

follows:- The said Clause (4A) was inserted after

Clause (4) of Article 16to say that nothing

in the said Article shall prevent the State

from making any provision for reservation

in matters of promotion to any class(s) of

posts in the services under the State in
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 115 favour of SCs and STs which, in the opinion

of the States, are not adequately

represented in the services under the

State. 88. In the circumstances, Clause (4A) of Article 16 was once again amended and the

benefit of consequential seniority was given

in addition to accelerated promotion to the

roster-point promotees. Suffice it to state

that, the Constitution (Eighty-Fifth

Amendment) Act, 2001 was an extension of

Clause (4A) of Article 16. Therefore, the

Constitution (Seventy-Seventh

Amendment) Act, 1995 has to be read with

the Constitution (Eighty-Fifth Amendment)

Act, 2001 . 89. We quote hereinbelow Statement of

Objects and Reasons with the text of the Constitution (Eighty-Fifth Amendment)

Act, 2001 : belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the

Scheduled Tribes had been enjoying the
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 116 benefit of consequential seniority on their

promotion on the basis of rule of

reservation. The judgments of the Supreme

Court in the case of Union of India v. Virpal

Singh Chauhan : AIR1996SC448 and Ajit

Singh Januja (No.1) v. State of Punjab : 2. The Government has reviewed the

position in the light of views received from

various quarters and in order to protect

the interest of the Government servants

belonging to the Scheduled Castes and

Scheduled Tribes, it has been decided to

negate the effect of O.M. dated 30th

January 1997 immediately. Mere
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 117 withdrawal of the O.M. dated 30th will not

meet the desired purpose and review or

revision of seniority of the Government

servants and grant of consequential

benefits to such Government servants will

also be necessary. This will require

amendment to Article 16(4A) of the

Constitution to provide for consequential

seniority in the case of promotion by virtue

of rule of reservation. It is also necessary

to give retrospective effect to the

proposed constitutional amendment to Article 16(4A) with effect from the date

of coming into force of Article 16(4A) itself, that is, from the 17th day of June,

1995. 3. The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid

objects. Received the assent of the President on

the 4-1-2002 An Act further to amend the Constitution

of India. BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-

second Year of the Republic of India as

follows: fifth Amendment) Act, 2001 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into

force on the 17th day of June 1995. 2. Amendment of Article 16.- In Article 16 of the Constitution, in Clause (4A), for the

words "in matters of promotion to any

class", the words "in matters of promotion,

with consequential seniority, to any class" An Act further to amend the Constitution

of India. Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-

first Year of the Republic of India as

follows: The conclusions drawn by the Apex Court make a

reference of ceiling of 50 per cent reservation apart from

the concept of creamy-layer. The administrative efficiency is

a constitutional requirement to maintain structure of equality

of opportunity in public employment. Para No.100 of the judgment in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) concludes with following finding : As

stated above, Article 16(4B) lifts the 50% cap on carry-over

vacancies (backlog vacancies). The ceiling- limit of 50% on current

vacancies continues to remain. Para 123 of the judgment is also relevant where

following conclusion was drawn : It is made clear that even if the

State has compelling reasons, as stated above, the State will have

to see that its reservation provision does not lead to excessiveness

so as to breach the ceiling-limit of 50% or obliterate the creamy

layer or extend the reservation indefinitely. The ceiling of 50 per

cent is thus reiterated therein while upholding the

amendment in Articles 16(4A) and 16(4B). CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 123 In the case of Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra),

various issues were considered again, which includes, as to

whether identification of backward classes can be based on

"caste". After considering various judgments of the Apex

Court, it was held that "caste" cannot be the sole basis for

identification of backward classes and if it is determined

based on caste alone, it would violate Article 15(1) of the

Constitution of India. The caste was, however, permitted to

be starting point to find out as to whether the "caste" as a

whole can be classified as a backward class. In view of the

aforesaid, the "caste" can be taken into consideration to find

out backwardness but it cannot be the sole basis, otherwise,

it will hit Articles 15(1) and 16 of the Constitution of India. In the case of Anil Chandra & Ors. Vs. Radha

Krishna Gaur & Ors. reported in 2009 (9) SCC 454 same

issue was decided. Para Nos.17 & 18 of the said judgment are

quoted hereunder for ready reference : The paras, quoted above, show the extent of

reservation. The judgment in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) has been referred to show ceiling of 50 per cent

under Article 16(4B) of the Constitution on vacancy of the

year. It is also held that reservation cannot be provided on
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 126 proportional representation. The judgment in the case of Suraj Bhan Meena (supra) has also been referred by learned counsel for the

petitioners to support their arguments. The Apex Court in the said judgment held that quantifiable data is a condition

precedent to show inadequate representation of members of

Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The reservation

without quantifiable data would be illegal. The other judgment referred by learned counsel

for the petitioners is in the case of UP Power Corporation (supra). Para No.81 of the said judgment is quoted hereunder

where conclusion on the various issues has been drawn by the

Apex Court : The cadre strength as a unit also

ensures that the upper ceiling-limit of

50% is not violated. Further roster has
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 128 to be post-specific and not vacancy

based. (v) The State has to form its opinion on

the quantifiable data regarding

adequacy of representation. Clause (4A)

of Article 16 is an enabling provision. It

gives freedom to the State to provide

for reservation in matters of

promotion. Clause (4A) of Article16

applies only to SCs and STs. The said

clause is carved out of Article 16(4A). Therefore, Clause (4A) will be governed

by the two compelling reasons - over of unfilled vacancies is removed,

the other alternative time-factor

comes in and in that event, the time-

scale has to be imposed in the interest

of efficiency in administration as

mandated by Article 335. If the time-

scale is not kept, then posts will

continue to remain vacant for years
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 129 which would be detrimental to the

administration. Therefore, in each case,

the appropriate Government will now

have to introduce the duration

depending upon the fact-situation. (vii) If the appropriate Government

enacts a law providing for reservation

without keeping in mind the parameters

in Article16(4) and Article 335 , then

this Court will certainly set aside and

strike down such legislation. (viii) The constitutional limitation under Article 335 is relaxed and not

obliterated. As stated above, be it

reservation or evaluation, excessiveness

in either would result in violation of the

constitutional mandate. This exercise,

however, will depend on the facts of

each case. identified and measured. That exercise

depends on the availability of data. That

exercise depends on numerous factors.

It is for this reason that the enabling
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 130 provisions are required to be made

 because each competing claim seeks to

 achieve certain goals. How best one

 should optimize these conflicting claims

 can only be done by the administration

 in the context of local prevailing

 conditions in public employment. (x) Article 16(4) , therefore, creates a

 field which enables a State to

 provide for reservation provided

 there exists backwardness of a

 class and inadequacy of

 representation in employment. These are compelling reasons. They do not exist in Article 16(1). It is only when these reasons are

 satisfied that a State gets the

 power to provide for reservation

 in the matter of employment. The summary of the conclusions shows as to how

and up to what extent reservation can be provided. The judgment in the case of S.V.Joshi & ors.

(supra) has been relied by learned Solicitor General of India

so as the private respondents. The reservation can exceed
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 131 the ceiling of 50 per cent if quantifiable data are available

with the State Government. The reference of earlier

judgments of the Apex Court in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) and Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra) apart from other

judgments has been given in para 13 of judgment in the case

of S.V. Joshi & Ors. (supra), which is quoted hereunder for

ready reference : The writ petition therein was filed before

pronouncement of the judgment by the Constitutional Bench

of the Supreme Court in the case of M.Nagaraj & Ors. (supra)

and Ashoka Kumar Thakur (supra). The reference of those

judgments has been given in the para quoted above. Learned

counsel appeared therein did not make a reference of Article

16(4B) of the Constitution of India though, reference of the

constitutional amendment has been made. Para 10 of the

judgment in the case of S.V.Joshi & Ors. (supra) is quoted

hereunder, which clarify that State action should be subject

to the subsequent judgment of the Apex Court in the cases referred above thus the judgment aforesaid has to be read in

reference to the aforesaid : The judgment of the Apex Court in the case of M.

Nagaraj (supra) held ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation in

reference to Article 16(4B) of the Constitution (see para 100,

110 and 121 to 124). The judgment in the case of B.Archana Reddy &

Ors. (supra) has also been relied. Para Nos. 191 & 192 of the

said judgment are quoted hereunder for ready reference : referred to by the Supreme Court in

paragraph 810 of Indra Sawhney I. Sri R.K.

Dhawan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

one of the interveners in W.P.No. 13832 of

2005 would urge that the excess over 50%

being only 1% is 'de minimis' ('De minimis'

means "the Law does not care for or take
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 135 notice of very small or triffling matters", (see

Black's Law Dictionary; 1990 edn. p.431)), that

Muslim population being 9.25%, provision of 5%

reservation to them cannot be said unjustified

and that percentages are to be reviewed on

periodical basis and therefore, would not

furnish the valid ground for invalidation of the

Ordinance. We may mention that doctrine of

'de minimis' has no application when the

constitutional guarantee to equality and equal

protection of laws is flouted with impunity,

without any justification. If 1 % excess

reservation cannot be sustained on any such

ground, de minimis is not available. (See Indian

Bank's Association v. Devkala Consultancy

Service [2004] 267 ITR 179(SC) ). 192. In Balaji, the Supreme Court adverted to

question of reasonableness of reservation

exceeding 50%. On the premise that Clause (4)

of Article 15 and Clause (4) of Article 16(4) being in the nature of exception, it was held

that a special provision contemplated under

these clauses must be within reasonable limits.

The Court then observed that, "speaking

generally and in a broad way, a special provision

should be less than 50%; how much less than

50% would depend upon the relevant prevailing
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 136 circumstances in each case". The view that

 enabling provision in two articles is an

 exception was not accepted in Thomas. But,

 rule of 50% reservation survived in Thomas,

 Vasanth Kumar and Indra Sawhney I. In the

 last cited decision, majority explained this rule

 as under. While 50% shall be the rule, it is

 necessary not to put out of diversity of

 this country and the people. It might

 happen that in farflung and remote

 areas the population inhabiting those

 areas might, on account of their being

 out of the mainstream of national life

 and in view of conditions peculiar to and

 characteristical to them, need to be

 treated in a different way,some

 relaxation in this strict rule may

 become imperative. In doing so,

 extreme caution is to be exercised and

 a special case made out. (emphasis

 supplied)" The summary of the judgments , referred above ,

reveals that ceiling of 50 per cent on reservation is a rule,

excess to it can be in extra ordinary situation, which should

be based on quantifiable data. The constitutional amendment thereupon in Article 16 (4B) of the Constitution, however, does not show

permissibility of reservation above 50 per cent for the

vacancies of the year. The exception is for backlog vacancies.

If true meaning of the constitutional provisions is taken,

ceiling of 50 per cent for the vacancies of the year, in which,

it is to be filled, exists. The State cannot provide reservation

beyond 50 per cent of the vacancies of the year, in which, it

is to be filled. The judgment on the constitutional amendment

shows permission to cross the ceiling of 50 per cent in a given

case but learned counsel, appearing in those cases, did not

refer to basic structure of the amended provisions of Article
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 140 16(4B) of the Constitution of India and, in any case, ceiling of

50 per cent of the reservation needs to be applied as a rule

on the vacancies of the year, in which, it is to be filled. Article 16(4B) of the Constitution puts a cap of 50 per cent

on reservation on the vacancies of the year. To consider, para

Nos.100, 110 and 121 to 124 in the case of M. Nagaraj & Ors. (supra) are quoted hereunder and is an answer to the

question: classification between OBC on one hand and

SCs and STs on the other hand as held in

Indra Sawhney, the concept of post-based

Roster with in-built concept of replacement

as held in R.K. Sabharwal. 122. We reiterate that the ceiling-limit of

50%, the concept of creamy layer and the

compelling reasons, namely, backwardness,

inadequacy of representation and overall

administrative efficiency are all

constitutional requirements without which

the structure of equality of opportunity in Article 16 would collapse. 123. However, in this case, as stated, the

main issue concerns the "extent of

reservation". In this regard the concerned

State will have to show in each case the

existence of the compelling reasons,

namely, backwardness, inadequacy of

representation and overall administrative

efficiency before making provision for

reservation. As stated above, the impugned

provision is an enabling provision. The State

is not bound to make reservation for SC/ST

in matter of promotions. However if they
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 144 wish to exercise their discretion and make

 such provision, the State has to collect

 quantifiable data showing backwardness of

 the class and inadequacy of representation

 of that class in public employment in

 addition to compliance of Article335. It is

 made clear that even if the State has

 compelling reasons, as stated above, the

 State will have to see that its reservation

 provision does not lead to excessiveness so

 as to breach the ceiling-limit of 50% or

 obliterate the creamy layer or extend the

 reservation indefinitely. 124. Subject to above, we uphold the

 constitutional validity of the Constitution

 (Seventy-Seventh Amendment) Act, 1995 ,

 the Constitution (Eighty-First Amendment)

 Act, 2000 , the Constitution (Eighty-Second

 Amendment) Act, 2000 and the Constitution

 (Eighty-Fifth Amendment) Act, 2001 ."

 In the light of the discussion made above, we hold

that as per Article 16(4B) of the Constitution of India, ceiling

of 50 per cent on reservation on the vacancies of the year, in

which they are to be filled, exists. The exception is for the

backlog or unfilled post/s of previous year/years. CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 145 Extent of Judicial Review : In our considered view, identification of an

appropriate standard of review, relevant to the examination

of the several steps and aspects involved in the State

exercise of declaration of a Special Backward Class, lends

clarity to the task of judicial review and advances coherence

and consistency to litigative outcomes. In view of the above,

judicial review is not barred but jurisdiction would be limited

to the issues given above. On the Report of SBC Commission : The SBC Commission considered various survey

reports submitted by IDS. It was found to be contrary or

against the public opinion in reference to various castes. The

SBC Commission thus asked the IDS to clarify various issues,

which were replied by IDS on 26 th October, 2012. Relevant

part of SBC Commission report, referring to the clarifications

by IDS is also quoted hereunder for ready reference : The SBC Commission discarded the survey report

for 25 castes holding it to be improper and, after naming

those castes, following observations were made, which are

also quoted hereunder for ready reference : The final observation of SBC Commission in

reference to the report of IDS shows that proper survey

was not conducted by IDS and it decided to call for the

details of representation of various castes in the State

services and educational institutions. Relevant part to call for

the report from the Government after making comments on

the report of IDS is also quoted hereunder : इसथी तरह सते 4 जजाततययों किजा गजामथीण क्षतेत्र मम

एकि भथी घर किजा सरर नहरीसं हयआ। यते हह मकोच्चथी

(गवैर दहनर)म , लसकिलिरीगर, ठिठितेरजा र च्चन
 म गर। (2) इसथी तरह सते 16 जजाततययों किजा शहररी

 क्षतेत्र मम एकि सते 10 घरयों किते बिथीच्च किजा हरी

 सरर ककियजा गयजा हवै जजनमम

 किनबिथी/किलरथी/परतेलि/पजाररीरजार, अनजनजा/णजासंगररी

 परतेलि/कियलिमथी, धिजाकिड, वरशनकोई, मतेर,

 रजायलसख, च्चजारण सयोंधधियजा, ककिरजार खजारकोलि,

 घजासंच्चथी, बिजागररयजा, गदथी, मयलितजानथी, नर

 तमकोलिरी, एरसं च्चमनगर। इसथी तरह सते गजामथीण क्षतेत्र मम 11 जजाततयजासं
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 161 ऐसथी भथी हह जजनमम कियलि 1 सते 10 परररजारयों

किते बिथीच्च किजा हरी सरर हयआ हवै जजनमम गजाडणत

नजागझौररी, किसंज
 म णजा , फजारूकिकी भदरयजारजा, नयजाररयजा,

पररजा, लसलिजारर, सततयजा लसनधिथी सपतेरजा (गवैर

दहनर)म , लसरकिकीरजालि, हवैलिजा, जजागररी हवै।

(3) शहररी क्षतेत्रयों मम 8 जजाततयजासं धगररी, मवैर,

 मरजाररी, च्चकोबिरजार, सततयजा लसनधिथी, सपतेरजा,

 लसरकिकीरजालि, ठिठितेरजा एरसं गजामथीण क्षतेत्र किकी 4

 जजाततयजासं भणभमजजा, नर, तमकोलिरी खतेलिरजार

 किजा भथी मजात्र 11 सते 20 परररजारयों किजा हरी

 सरर ककियजा गयजा हवै। उपरकोकत अधययन किते वरशलितेरण सते आयकोग इस

तनषकिरर्त पर पहयसंच्चजा ककि इतनते किम सरर किते

आधिजार पर जहजासं 81 जजातत/रगर मम सते 13

जजाततययों किजा तको शहररी तथजा 4 जजाततययों किजा

गजामथीण मम ककिसथी भथी घर किजा सरर नहरीसं हयआ हवै,

27 जजाततयजासं जजनमम 16 शहररी और 11 गजामथीण

मम सते 1 सते 10 घरयों किते बिथीच्च किजा सरर हयआ र

12 जजाततयजासं जजनमम 8 शहररी र 4 गजामथीण किजा

11 सते 20 घरयों किते बिथीच्च किजा सरर हयआ, इतनते

किम सरर मम इन जजाततययों किते बिजारते मम सरर किते

आधिजार पर ककिसथी तनषकिरर्त पर पहयसंच्चनजा
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 162 नयजायकोधच्चत नहरीसं हकोगजा। इसकिते सजाथ हरी सरर मम

मख
 य य पवैरजामथीरर यह भथी रहजा ककि ररीम नते जको सरर

ककियजा उसमम उततररजातजा नते जको बितजायजा उसकिकी

बबिनजा सनतजय षर/समपयजषर किते हरी वरशरजास किरकिते

उसथी किते आधिजार पर तनषकिरर्त दरयजा हवै। सजाथ हरी

सरर किकी एकि खजामथी यह भथी रहरी हवै ककि सरकिजाररी

सतेरजा किते बिजार मम जको गजामथीण शहरयों मम तनरजास

किरनते लिग गयते उनकिजा शहरयों मम सरर नहरीसं हयआ

एरसं गजासंर मम भथी सरर नहरीसं हयआ। इस किजारण भथी

सरर सते उस क्षतेत्र किते तनरजालसययों किजा सरकिजाररी

नझौकिररययों मम प्रतततनधधितर किकी सहरी जसथतत किजा

आसंकिलिन नहरीसं ककियजा जजा सकितजा।

अत: आयकोग नते यह तनणर्तय ललियजा ककि रजाजय

सरकिजार मम तनयक
 य त सरकिजाररी नझौकिररययों मम वपछडजा

रगर्त किकी 81 जजाततययों किते जजाततरजार आसंकिणते प्रजापत

ककियते जजायते। इस समबिनधि मम सरसय सधच्चर नते

मख
 य य सधच्चर एरसं प्रमख
 य शजासन सधच्चर, किजालमर्तकि

किको उपरकोकत आसंकिडते उपलिबधि किररजानते हतेतय किहजा।

प्रमयख शजासन सधच्चर, किजालमर्तकि नते यह बितजायजा ककि

च्चयन समच्चथी मम अनय वपछणजा रगर्त हरी ललिखजा हकोतजा

हवै तथजा जजाततरजार च्चयन समच्चथी तवैयजार नहरीसं हकोतथी

हवै। अत: अनय वपछडथी जजाततययों किजा जजाततरजार
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 163 नझौकिररययों मम वरररण एकिबत्रत किरनजा बिहयत

 मजय शकिलि किजाम हवै। कययोंककि सभथी जजलियों र सभथी

 वरभजागयों सते जजाततरजार आसंकिडते प्रजापत किरनते मम किम

 सते किम 6 मजाह किजा समय लिगनते किकी ससंभजारनजा

 हवै। आयकोग नते पयन: इस पर वरच्चजार ककियजा और

 यह तनणर्तय ललियजा ककि प्रमयख प्रमयख वरभजागयों मम

 गत 5 ररर्त मम रजाजसथजान लिकोकि सतेरजा अयकोग सते

 जको तनयजय कतयजासं हयई हह रते मख
 य यत: प्रथम र

 दवरतथीय शतेणथी किकी हह। वरभजागयों सते उन

 तनयजय कतययों किते कियलि परयों, अनय वपछडजा रगर्त किते

 ललिए ररजरर्त पर, सजामजानय परयों किते वररूद अनय

 वपछडजा रगर्त किते च्चयन, कियलि अनय वपछडजा रगर्त किजा

 च्चयन और उनकिजा जजाततगत एरसं ससंखयजागत 5

 ररर्त (2007 सते 2012) जजातत प्रमजाण पत्र/सवरर्तस

 बियकि मम उललितेणखत जजाततगत आसंकिडते प्रजापत ककियते

 जजायते। इस बिजाबित तनमन वरभजागयों सते समच्चनजा प्रजापत

 किकी गई।" representation in services, whereas, few castes are having

proportionately excessive representation, yet not

recommended for exclusion. It is moreso when the Apex

Court has directed for exclusion of the caste, if adequately

represented. The Commission has failed to discharge its

obligation properly while making the report : CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 170 रजाजसथजान सरकिजार मम ररर्त
 2007 सते 2012 तकि
 आरपथीएससथी सते च्चयतनत
 अनय वपछडजा रगर्त किते
 रजाजपबत्रत अधधिकिजाररयको किकी
 जजाततरजार सयच्चनजा

 तनरतेशजालिय,
 धच्चककितसजा,
 रजाणणजय किर तकिनथीकिकी सरजासथय एरसं
 वरभजाग सजारर्तजतनकि गजामथीण वरकिजास एरसं किकॉलितेज
 किकी परररजार
 तनमजार्तण वरभजाग पसंच्चजायतथी रजाज वरभजाग लशक्षजा
 लशक्षजा किलयजाण
 सतेरजाएसं समसस 1931
क.स. किकी जनससंखयजा
 किजा प्रततशत
 सतेरजा किजा नजाम/नजाम जतेसथीररीओ सहजायकि कितनषठि सहजायकि सहजायकि प्ररकतजा णकॉकरसर्त कियलि
 जजातत रगर अलभयनतजा अलभयनतजा अलभयनतजा प्रकोफतेसर
 (लसवरलि एरसं
 वरदयत
 य )

 कियलि च्चयन 485 99 246 10 852 199 4783 6674

 ओबिथीसथी मम 96 20 54 3 90 45 1137 1445
 च्चयतनतयों किकी ससंखयजा

 ओबिथीसथी मम च्चयतनत 163 29 93 3 163 54 1559 2064
 + सजामजानय किते
 वररूद च्चयतनत
 ओबिथीसथी किकी ससंखयजा

 1 गजाडणयजा-लिह
 य जार, 2 2 0.074
 गजाणकोललियजा

 2 रजाईकिजा, 1 2 3 0.172
 रवैबिजाररी(रतेबिजासथी)

 3 बिसंजजारजा, बिजालिदरयजा, 2 2 0.199
 लिबिजानजा

 4 गणररयजा (गजाणररी), 1 2 3 0.656
 गजायररी, घकोसथी
 (गरजालिजा)

 5 गमजर, गयजर्तर 5 1 4 1 52 63 4.767

 6 जजार 80 12 29 2 71 20 670 884 9.097

 7 च्चजारण 9 1 2 10 21 43 0.285
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 171 8 यजारर, अहरीर 10 2 3 18 2 114 149 1.546

9 वरशनकोई 5 3 1 2 37 48 0.592

10 कियमजारत, कियमहजार 5 1 8 9 6 67 96 3.171
 (प्रजजापतत), सआ
 य रजा

11 मजालिरी, सवैनथी, 10 6 15 10 7 108 156 3.257
 बिजागरजान

12 जजाधगण, खजातथी, 3 4 5 7 50 69 1.845
 बिढई, सथ
 य जार,
 तरखजान

13 सकोनथी, सन
 य जार, 5 2 1 4 45 57 0.852
 सरणर्तकिजार, जडणयजा

14 रजर 3 2 2 11 18 0.420

15 सजार, सरजामथी, 5 2 4 25 36 0.246
 बिवैरजागथी, जसंगम

16 नजाई, सतेन, रतेरनजाई 3 1 3 3 8 18 1.468

17 रजारत 1 3 1 5 10 0.940

18 धिजाकिड 3 1 53 57 0.823

19 रजारणजा-रजाजपमत, 1 1 3 5 10 1.589
 ररकोगजा, हजमररी,
 रजथीर

20 बिणरजा, जजाच्चकि, 2 1 10 13 0.330
 भजार, जजागजा, रजार

21 किलिजालि (रजासंकि), 1 1 2 9 13 0.377
 किलिजालि (मतेरजाणजा),
 किलिजालि (सर
 य जालिकिजा),
 किलिजालि
 (जजायसरजालि),
 किलिजालि
 (अहलिर
 म जाललियजा),
 किलिजालि (परतेलि)

22 ठिठितेरजा, किसंसजारजा 1 1 1 3 0.024
 (भरजारजा)

23 घजासंच्चथी 1 1 1 1 3 7 0.046

24 ततेलिरी 1 1 1 1 1 15 20 0.719

25 खजारकोलि (खजाररजालि) 1 0 1 0.063

26 सततयजा लसनधिथी 2 2

27 किजायमखजानथी 4 12 16 0.308
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 172 28 लिखतेरजा 2 2 4 0.110
 (लिखजारजा),किच्चतेरजा,
 मतनहजार

29 धिकोबिथी (मजय सलिम) 0 0 0.040

30 लिकोहजार, पजासंच्चजालि 1 2 1 3 7 0.722

31 जकोगथी, नजाथ, लसद 2 2 4 0.669

32 छछपजा (छछपथी), 2 5 1 2 29 39 0.300
 भजारसजार, नजामजा,
 खटथी, छछपजा,
 रसंगरतेज, नथीलिगर

33 धिथीरर, किहजार, भकोई, 1 1 2 4 0.328
 सगररसंशथी-मजालिरी,
 किकीर, महतेरजा,
 मललिजाह (तनरजार),
 बिजाररी, लभशतथी,
 मछयआरजा

34 रजासंगथी 4 4 0.431

35 जणरजा, खजारडणयजा 1 25 26 0.031
 (लसररथी)

36 णजाकिकोत, रतेशजासंतररी, 2 0 2 0.237
 रसंगजासजामथी
 (अणमकोपजा)

37 महजा-बजाहमण 1 6 7 0.483
 (आच्चजारज), फकिकीर
 (किबबसतजान मम किजायर्त
 किरनते रजालिते)

38 किनबिथी, किलिबिथी, 2 3 34 39 0.0005
 परतेलि, पजाररीरजार,
 आसंजणजा, णजासंगथी
 परतेलि, कियलिमथी

39 मतेर 1 1 1 1 4 1.421

40 धगररी, गकोसजासंई 1 2 3 6 0.260
 (गश
 य जासंई)

41 हलिजालिरी, किसजाई 0 0 0.210

42 जयलिजाहजा 11 11 0.151

43 लसनधिथी मस
 य लिमजान 1 4 5 0.369

44 तमकोलिरी (तमबिकोलिरी) 1 1 0.052

45 लिकोधिथी(लिकोधिजा) 1 4 5 0.077

46 रजाठि 0 0 0.447
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 173 47 मतेर (मतेहरजात- 2 2 0.243
 किजाठिजात, मतेहरजात- रजाजसथजान सरकिजार मम ररर्त 2007 सते 2012
 तकि आरपथीएससथी सते च्चयतनत अनय वपछणजा
 रगर्त किते अधिथीनसथ सतेरजा / मसंत्रजालितयकि / अनय
 किमर्तच्चजाररययों किकी जजाततरजार समच्चनजा : Mali/Keer/Mehra/Mallah
 (Nishad)/Bari/Bhisti/Mach
 uara

34 Dangi 0 0.00 2 0.01 7 0.03 9 0.02 0.06 0.432

35 Janwa, Khardiya (Sirvi) 1 0.07 33 0.15 22 0.08 56 0.11 0.37 0.031

36 Dakaut/Deshantri/Rangasa 2 0.14 10 0.05 26 0.10 38 0.08 0.25 0.237
 mi (Adbhopa)

37 Maha-Brahman 1 0.07 14 0.07 36 0.14 51 0.10 0.33 0.484
 (Acharaj)/Fakir (Working
 in Kabristan)

38 Kanbi/Kalbi/Patel/Patidar/ 1 0.07 81 0.38 64 0.24 146 0.30 0.96 0.001
 Anjana/Dangi Patel/Kumi

39 Mev 1 0.07 15 0.07 27 0.10 43 0.09 0.28 1.421

40 Giri/Gosain (Gushain) 0 0.00 28 0.13 46 0.17 74 0.15 0.48 0.260

41 Halali/Kasai 0 0.00 5 0.02 8 0.03 13 0.03 0.09 0.211

42 Julaha 2 0.14 28 0.13 41 0.16 71 0.14 0.46 0.151
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 187 Table No.16-In State Government, Government Undertakings, Cooperative Institutions and Autonomous Corporation
 Category Wise/Castewise made appointment from 1.1.2001 to 30.09.2012 (First and Second Step)

43 Sindhi Musalman 2 0.14 10 0.05 30 0.11 42 0.09 0.27 0.370

44 Tamoli (Tamboli) 1 0.07 17 0.08 12 0.05 30 0.06 0.20 0.052

45 Lodhi (Lodha) 0 0.00 12 0.06 58 0.22 70 0.14 0.46 0.089

46 Rath 0 0.00 1 0.00 25 0.09 26 0.05 0.07 0.447

47 Mer (Mehrat-Kathat, 1 0.07 5 0.02 26 0.10 32 0.06 0.21 0.244
 Mehrat-Ghodat, Cheeta)

48 Bagaria 0 0.00 6 0.03 1 0.00 7 0.01 0.05 0.000

49 Bharbhuja 0 0.00 0 0.00 4 0.02 4 0.01 0.03 0.031

50 Nagarchi- 0 0.00 3 0.01 3 0.01 6 0.01 0.04 0.085
 Damami/Rana/Baiti (Barot)

51 Hela 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.000

52 Kandera/Pinjara 0 0.00 8 0.04 26 0.10 34 0.07 0.22 0.235

53 Kirar (Kirad) 1 0.07 3 0.01 13 0.05 17 0.03 0.11 0.133

54 Mirasi/Dandi/Langa/Mang 0 0.00 3 0.01 9 0.03 12 0.02 0.08 0.150
 niyar

55 Mogia (Mogya) 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.052

56 Nyaria (Nyargar) 0 0.00 0 0.00 3 0.01 3 0.01 0.02 0.021

57 Odd 0 0.00 3 0.01 12 0.05 15 0.03 0.10 0.066

58 Patwa (Phadal) 0 0.00 1 0.00 2 0.01 3 0.01 0.02 0.024

59 Sikllgar/Bandooksaz (Usta) 0 0.00 2 0.01 4 0.02 6 0.01 0.04 0.018

60 Sirklwal 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.000

61 Jagri 0 0.00 0 0.00 2 0.01 2 0.00 0.01 0.008

62 Raisikh 0 0.00 12 0.06 46 0.17 58 0.12 0.38 0.000

63 Lodhe-Tanwar 0 0.00 2 0.01 9 0.03 11 0.02 0.07 0.000

64 Sohdhla 0 0.00 2 0.01 0 0.00 2 0.00 0.01 0.291

65 Gaddee 0 0.00 5 0.02 0 0.00 5 0.01 0.03 0.045

66 Farooki Bhatiyara 0 0.00 2 0.01 0 0.00 2 0.00 0.01 0.000

67 Silawat(Other than 2 0.14 3 0.01 19 0.07 24 0.05 0.15 0.122
 Sompura and
 Murtikaar)/Chejara

68 Kherwa 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.004

69 Kunjada/Raen` 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.038

70 Sapera (Non Hindu Caste) 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.035

71 Madari/Bajigar (Non Hindu 0 0.00 0 0.00 16 0.06 16 0.03 0.10 0.002
 Caste)

72 Nut (Non Hindu Caste) 0 0.00 0 0.00 3 0.01 3 0.01 0.02 0.065

73 Gadeet Nagauri 0 0.00 5 0.02 1 0.00 6 0.01 0.04 1.409

74 Kheldar 0 0.00 2 0.01 0 0.00 2 0.00 0.01 0.000

75 Chungar 0 0.00 3 0.01 0 0.00 3 0.01 0.02 0.005
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 188 Table No.16-In State Government, Government Undertakings, Cooperative Institutions and Autonomous Corporation
 Category Wise/Castewise made appointment from 1.1.2001 to 30.09.2012 (First and Second Step)

76 Multanies 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.002

77 Mochi (Non Hindu Caste) 0 0.00 0 0.00 3 0.01 3 0.01 0.02 0.012

78 Deshwali 0 0.00 4 0.02 15 0.06 19 0.04 0.12 0.073

79 Kotwal/Kotwal 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.002

80 Chobdar 0 0.00 0 0.00 2 0.01 2 0.00 0.01 0.021

81 Kachhi (Kushwaha), 1 0.07 13 0.06 53 020 67 0.14 0.44 0.513
 Shakya

 Total 432 30.86 5559 25.84 9098 34.51 15089 30.62 98.76 44.671

 The statement aforesaid reveals reservation of

 9613 posts for OBC and, as against aforesaid, 15278 OBC

 candidates could get appointment, i.e., exceeding to reserve

 posts meant for them. If it is taken against 49275 posts, so

 advertised, then OBC candidates could occupy nearly 30 per

 cent posts. The aforesaid fact has also been ignored by the

 SBC Commission while considering the statement referred to

 above . It seems that ignoring the adequate representation of

 few castes, recommendation to create a new category of

 "special backward classes" has been given to satisfy the

 desire of the State Government. The way, recommendations

 have been made, cannot be said to be based on cogent

 reasons. In all, 49275 appointments were made in various

 services since 01st January, 2001 till 30th September, 2012
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 189 and, out of it, 15278 posts were filled from OBC candidates,

which comes to nearly 30 per cent of the total posts,

whereas, reservation to the OBC category is 21 per cent. Out

of 15278 appointments, 836 were of Gujjar/Gurjar caste,

whereas, Jaats could get 4544 posts. The figures aforesaid

shows that around 30 per cent posts have been occupied by

Jaat candidates. A caste occupied around 30 per cent of the total

posts of OBC category has not been considered for their

exclusion so that remaining castes may get adequate share on

its exclusion. If the total posts filled from four castes

namely, Jaat, (4544), Ahir (Yadav) (933), Kumhar or Kumawat

(Prajapati, Kumawat/Suara) (1267) and Mali/Saini/Bagwan

(1669) are considered, then around 60 per cent of the posts

came in their share leaving 40 per cent for all other castes in

OBC category. In view of the judgment of the Apex Court,

the SBC Commission was required to consider and make

recommendations not only for inclusion of certain castes but

should have been even for exclusion thereof. The new

category has been created without extra ordinary situation

because it is for those castes, which were otherwise getting
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 190 reservation for last many years. It is urged that the Apex Court in the case of SV

Joshi (supra) held that contradiction or other irregularity in

the report of the Commission should not be taken as basis to

discard or annul the legislation. It is, no doubt, true that

while making detailed and lengthy report, some discrepancies

may occur but reference of the facts given above reveals

major discrepancies and report of the SBC Commission shows

contradiction and perversity. The report is not based on

scientific method or quantifiable data. The Court cannot be

silent spectator for the aforesaid, rather, if the

discrepancies of the nature spelled out by this Court are

allowed to stand then recommendations by the SBC

Commission would be an empty formality only. Many parts of the report reflect comment on the

survey conducted by the IDS and are reproduced hereunder

to show observations of the Commission itself that in what

manner, data have been collected : The extracted portion above is only an illustration

otherwise other discrepancies also exist and, in those

circumstances, the report of the SBC Commission cannot be

accepted. The survey should have been conducted in the

manner required and otherwise directed by the Apex Court in

various judgments. It was expected of the Commission not to

rely on the old data which are not relevant at present. The

deficiencies and the perversity in the report can be

summarised as under : The aforesaid are few issues to show perversity

and the inadequacy in the report before making

recommendations for reservation beyond 50 per cent, that

too, after carving out a new category for those, who were

already getting benefit of reservation for past many years.

The extra ordinary circumstances to make out an exceptional

case do not exist to provide 5 per cent reservation. The

report cannot be said to be based on quantifiable data. In view of the discussion made above, the report

of the SBC Commission cannot be accepted and is,
 CWP - 1645/2016
 ALONG WITH OTHER PETITIONS 199 accordingly, quashed. As a consequence of the aforesaid apart

from the discussion made in reference to Article 16(4B) of

the Constitution of India and the judgments of the Apex

Court, the impugned Notification dated 16th October, 2015

issued by the State Government and the Rajasthan Special

Backward Classes (Reservation of Seats in Educational

Institutions in the State and of Appointments and Posts in

Services under the State) Act, 2015 are struck down. With the aforesaid, all the writ petitions are

disposed of. A copy of this order be placed in each connected

file. (J.K.RANKA), J. (M.N.BHANDARI), J.

Preeti, P.A.