India has rapidly embraced digital transformation and digitalisation, integrating technology into daily life at an unprecedented pace. Unfortunately, in doing so, it often appears to have assumed that technology unfailingly works, and that the public at large knows how to use it.

This has meant, on the one hand, that India has not always kept marginalised and vulnerable sections of society in mind as it has veered away from endless streams of nothing but paperwork. And, on the other hand, both that legal regulation to enable people to engage with technology is sparse and poorly enforced, and that when technology fails, the means of redressal, even if they exist in theory, are difficult to access.

In some cases, digital transformation and digitalisation have created an entirely new class of people who have become disadvantaged simply because of their lack of familiarity with technology or due to their having restricted access to technology. This includes many older people who did not grow up in a digital world, for example, and some women who, on account of patriarchal norms, have limited access to cell phones, one of the primary devices through which the Internet, essential to participate in the digital world, is accessed in India.

In other cases, people who faced challenges dealing with the administrative functions of everyday life prior to the emergence of a supposedly paperless world continue to do so while engaging with everything from bureaucracy and entertainment: people with disabilities, for example, and people who cannot read.

The law is not entirely oblivious to the challenges which large numbers of people face while participating in the digital world. The Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016, does, for instance, speak of ensuring access to information and communication technology by people with disabilities but, in practice, this has not consistently resulted in the development of websites which are particularly friendly to people with disabilities.

Even when people, marginalised or not, manage to access the digital world, there is often little they can do in practical terms if the technology they employ or attempt to use does not work as intended.

To compound the issue, not all problems are caused by technological failures. On the contrary, many are caused by scammers and by people acting in abundantly bad faith. They constitute a spectrum of abusers including individuals posting non-consensual explicit content online or individuals conning people into believing that they are being subject to digital arrest, a legal impossibility, and defrauding them of money.

Scammers and abusers tend not to present themselves as criminals, despite the fact that they often are exactly that, and they completely and easily fool the gullible.

In fact, one of the most glaring gaps in India’s digital evolution is the divide that affects senior citizens and young children, both of whom are highly susceptible to cyber threats. While online transactions and digital administration including applications to avail of various schemes and facilities are convenient, they have also exposed everyone, and vulnerable groups in particular, to significant risks.

It is common knowledge that almost every smartphone user has, at some point, encountered an attempt to hack their accounts, steal their identity, or compromise their financial details. However, for those who are unfamiliar with digital landscapes, often senior citizens, these threats have had devastating consequences.

Fraudsters exploit the anonymity provided by the Internet gaining unauthorized access to mobile numbers, financial credentials, and digital wallets. Further, reported cases also reveal systemic flaws in digital security enforcement. Publicly available data highlights how phishing scams, SIM swaps, and fraudulent digital transactions have increased exponentially.

Recent reports have also indicated that cybercriminals are actively targeting elderly individuals, exploiting their lack of digital literacy to carry out large-scale fraud. At the same time, young children, who access technology at an early age are frequently targeted by malicious actors. Cybercriminals exploit their inexperience, luring them into fraudulent schemes through deceptive gaming platforms, phishing scams, and social media manipulation.

Yet, despite this growing threat, technology giants have not responded adequately. Grievance redressal mechanisms often remain slow, inefficient, and inaccessible. Social media and instant messaging platforms, which are integral to modern communication, often have tedious processes for reporting hacking incidents, with unreasonable waiting periods for account recovery. This only adds to the distress of victims, who are left without support during a crisis.

Reporting and redressal processes also tend to be opaque and, with the recent rise of artificial intelligence, it appears that issues are not necessarily handled with adequate human oversight. Almost all of us know how frustrating it can be to engage with a chatbot even without a crisis at hand, and it is difficult to believe that anyone would want AI, generally incapable of comprehending social nuances, to take the lead in handling crises involving themselves.

The issue of cyber fraud is no longer just a domestic concern but part of a larger transnational cybercrime network. One of the major challenges of addressing digital fraud is combatting how quickly money moves across borders, which makes recovery nearly impossible.

A recent report by the United States Institute of Peace reported by Voice of America on transnational crime in Southeast Asia reveals that scam centers in Myanmar, Cambodia, and Laos collectively steal over $39 billion annually, operating on an industrial scale with over 305,000 scammers involved. These cyber fraud networks target victims across the globe, including India, using fake investment schemes, cryptocurrency scams, and online gambling frauds.

The anonymity provided by the Internet and the decentralized nature of digital financial systems enable criminals to move money across borders without detection. Digital transactions, particularly involving cryptocurrency and mobile wallets, allow stolen funds to vanish beyond India’s jurisdiction within minutes. This is why senior citizens and financially vulnerable individuals often lose their entire life savings with no real recourse for recovery.

Without urgent intervention, India will continue to remain a prime target for cybercriminals operating from beyond its borders.

If not anything else, the current state of affairs underscores three critical issues:

Firstly: digital fraud is not localized but part of an international criminal ecosystem.

Secondly: online anonymity and the ease of digital transactions enable criminals to move money across borders without detection.

Thirdly: existing financial and legal frameworks are insufficient to combat the scale of cyber fraud, making it necessary for governments and tech companies to work together on stronger international regulations and enforcement mechanisms.

The solution, however, lies not in developing more regulations but on implementing a focused plan to close loopholes in both legal and technological systems.

Government agencies, financial institutions, and tech companies must collaborate to ensure stronger grievance redressal systems, better safeguards especially for vulnerable sections of the public, robust cybercrime prevention mechanisms, and accountability from tech corporations.

To effect these aims, at the very least:

Technological progress should not be halted but our legal systems must evolve to accommodate the changes it has wrought. A safe and secure Internet is now an essential part of the Right to Life under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution .

The digital divide cannot come at the cost of an entire generation’s financial security and peace of mind; no one should suffer due to the rapid advancement of technology. In particular, in our race towards a digital future, we must not lose sight of the vulnerable sections of society who struggle to keep pace with technology and, in turn, face serious consequences.

This article’s authors Sidharth Chopra and Nandita Saikia are lawyers who have advised a number of companies in the eCommerce and media realm on issues of law and legal policy. The views expressed in this article are their own personal opinion .

Also Read:

Note: The headline was changed at 03:52 PM on March 6th to offer better clarity

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event