28.11.2013 CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 1 of 22 IA Nos. 7706-07 of 2012 ( Order I Rule 10 CPC ) 1. These are two applications under Order I Rule 10 of the Code of Civil
Procedure , 1908 (' CPC ') seeking deletion of Defendants 1 and 3
respectively from the array of parties. 2. The background to these applications is that the aforementioned suit has
been filed by M/s Blueberry Books, Plaintiff No.1, Mr. Ashish Gupta,
Plaintiff No.2 and Mr. Jatin Mehta, Plaintiff No.3, all at New Delhi for a
permanent injunction restraining the Defendants from infringing the
copyright of the Plaintiffs in its stories (i) The Lazy Penguin; (ii) How The
Rainbow Was Formed; (iii) The Greedy Fisherman and (iv) The Flower
Goes For A Walk. 3. It is stated that in 2003, the Plaintiffs published a series of books under
the name 'Moral Stories' Parts-I, II and III each containing four stories.
Part-I contained the stories (i) Careless Tanu; (ii) The Merchant Learns A
Lesson; (iii) Sejal's Gift for Soni and (iv) Selfish Monu. Part-II contained
the stories (i) The Greedy Fisherman; (ii) A Flower Went for a Walk; (iii)
How The Rainbow Was Formed and (iv) Two Good Friends and Part-III
contained the stories (i) The Cunning Jackal; (ii) The Lazy Penguin; (iii)
The Wicked Cub and (iv) Harry and Bob. It is stated that these stories
contained in the aforementioned books are original literary and artistic
works of the Plaintiffs and are protected under the Copyright Act, 1957 ('CA'). The books were released in 2003, supplied to a large number of
schools and also sold in several book fairs. In 2005, they were reprinted and CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 2 of 22 circulated widely. In 2010, the stories were published afresh, some of the
characters in the stories were changed and the designs of caricature were
modified to show modern background, clothing etc. The above four stories
were included in Moral Stories Part-II and were also widely circulated
through book exhibitions, book fairs and even sold in the international
market, including South East Asia, Africa and Middle East. 4. The Plaintiffs state that, in February 2012, they discovered that the above
four stories were made available by the Defendants through the internet on
several applications across several platforms and websites for their users. It
is further averred that these applications are downloadable on almost all
handy devices including mobile phones, tablets, etc. that run on various
Android, BlackBerry, Apple and Windows based platforms and include
devices manufactured by Apple, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, LG, Blackberry,
Nokia, HTC, etc. These applications are run and are available on different
platforms including Android Market now known as Google Play,
Blackberry Applications, APPLE iTunes, Microsoft on Windows Phone.
The applications appear to have been designed by Defendant No.11 titled
'Story Time for Kids'. It is stated that all the above stories have been lifted
word to word with the caricatures, images, designing and the text inserted in
the form of voice-over. The stories have also been translated into different
languages including English, French, Italian, Chinese etc. 5. It is stated that a comparison of the stories available on Android,
BlackBerry, Windows and iTunes, the applications show that the wording
of the stories were lifted from the books of the Plaintiffs. The Plaintiffs had CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 3 of 22 never been approached by any of the Defendants to seek approval, licence
or permission to use the stories on those applications. It is stated that the
Defendants have earned huge sums of money and have not acknowledged
the copyright of the Plaintiffs. 6. On 19th March 2012, the following order was passed: 7. Pursuant to the above order some of the Defendants filed affidavits.
Defendants 1, 3 and 5 also filed applications under Order I Rule 10 CPC . 8. On 27th April 2012, the Court passed an order in I.A. 5055 of 2102 qua
Defendant No.11 as under: 9. Google India Pvt. Ltd., Defendant No. 1 filed IA No. 7706 of 2012,
stating that the Applicant failed to disclose even a single instance of
infringement against it; that it has been impleaded as a Defendant on the
sole basis that it is a subsidiary of Google Inc. Defendant No.2 or on a
mistaken basis that Defendant No.1 owns and operates www.google.com or
play.google.com. It is stated that Defendant No.1 has not been appointed as CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 5 of 22 an agent, partner or franchisee of Defendant No.2. It is stated that Defendant
No.1, as a non-exclusive distributor of Google Inc., engages in business
development and promotional activities for certain limited products and is
not responsible for the content available on the products. Defendant No.1
carries out certain software development and general research development
for Defendant No.2 and does not play any role in providing or administering
specific Google products/applications including "Android Play." 10. It is submitted by Mr. Abhishek Malhotra, learned counsel for
Defendant No.1, that the application in question i.e. 'Story Time for Kids' is
provided by the application developer on Android Play, a platform provided
by Defendant No.2. Defendant No.1 neither has control over the application
in question or the Android Play platform nor has it been appointed as an
agent of Defendant No.2 in India. The only relationship between
Defendants 1 and 2 is that Defendant No.1 is the subsidiary and Defendant
No.2 is the parent company. It is submitted that barring a bald allegation in
para 13 of the plaint, there is no specific allegation linking Defendant No.1
with the impugned activity of infringing the Plaintiffs' copyright. It is
submitted that Defendant No.1 is a separate legal entity and is not involved
in the infringing activity complained of. It is submitted that Defendant No.1
is, therefore, not a necessary or proper party to the suit and accordingly may
be deleted from the array of parties. 11. IA No. 7707 of 2012 has been filed by Defendant No.3, Research in
Motion India Pvt. Ltd. ('RIMPL'), on more or less similar grounds. It is
submitted that RIMPL is a subsidiary of Defendant No.4, Research in CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 6 of 22 Motion ('RIM'). RIMPL is the marketing entity for RIM. The activities of
Defendant No.3 are limited to marketing and sales support, increasing
overall awareness of BlackBerry in the Indian marketplace and providing
local wireless carrier partners and distributors with information on
upcoming BlackBerry devices. 12. It is submitted by Mr. Manav Kumar, learned counsel for Defendant
No.3, that RIMPL is not involved, directly or indirectly, in any aspect of the
BlackBerry App World. It is stated that RIMPL has no direct or indirect
involvement in the alleged infringement by Defendant No.11. It is
accordingly submitted that Defendant No.3, RIMPL, is neither a necessary
nor a proper party to the suit and, therefore, may be deleted from the array
of parties. 13. Replies have been filed by the Plaintiffs to both these applications. In
the reply filed to IA No. 7706 of 2012, it is stated by the Plaintiffs that the
website of Google Inc. states that it has more than 70 offices in more than
40 countries. The locations of the said offices show that Defendant No.2 is
present in India through Defendant No.1 at Bangalore, Gurgaon, Hyderabad
and Mumbai. Defendant No.1 is thus the face of Defendant No.2 in India
and hence both Defendants 1 and 2 are one and the same and are
responsible for providing the application through the website
http://play.google.com. The other contentions of Defendant No.1 in this
application are denied by the Plaintiffs. 14. In reply to IA No. 7707 of 2012 filed by Defendant No.3 RIMPL, it is CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 7 of 22 submitted that "the Defendants by providing the various applications on
their respective platforms are guilty of infringing of copyrights and are
liable for damages towards the Plaintiffs." It is stated that the popularity and
wide circulation of the impugned applications leading to the unjust
enrichment of the Defendants is evident from the affidavits the Defendants
have filed in compliance with the order dated 19th March 2012 passed by the
Court. 15. At this stage, it is necessary to refer to the affidavits filed pursuant to the
order dated 19th March 2012. Affidavits have been filed by Defendant No. 6
on 27th April 2012, by Defendants 7 and 8 on 26th April 2012 and by
Defendant No.2 on 15th May 2012. Interestingly, there is no affidavit of
Defendant No.1 in this regard. There is also no affidavit by Defendant No.3,
although written statements have been filed by them. 16. Turning to the plaint itself, the specific allegation as regards Defendant
No.1 is in para 13, where it is stated that as per the information available to
the Plaintiffs, "the Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 provide the applications on the
Android platform ......" There is a general allegation thereafter that the
Defendants are making available the four stories on their website and the
snapshots available on https://play.google.com have been placed on record.
In reply to the specific averment by Defendant No.1 that it does not control
the above website and is not responsible in any way for hosting those
websites, the only response of the Plaintiffs is that Defendant No.1 be put to
strict proof of such averment. There is nothing placed on record to show
that Defendant No.1 is controlling the platform hosting the above CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 8 of 22 application. The categorical assertion by Defendant No.1 that it does not
own or operate www.google.com or Google Inc. and has no control over the
application, i.e., 'storytime for kids' on Android play has not been able to be
denied by the Plaintiffs. It has been reiterated by learned counsel for
Defendant No.1 that apart from the fact that Defendant No.1 has no control
over www.google.com or Google Play, even the website google.co.in is not
controlled by Defendant No.1. It has no say in what is hosted by Google
Inc. on its website, whether available in India or elsewhere. 17. The mere fact that Defendant No.1 happens to be the subsidiary of
Defendant No.2, having its offices in Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai and
Gurgaon, does not automatically make it a necessary or proper party to the
present suit. Google.Inc is a separate legal entity and has been impleaded
separately as such. Interestingly, in its written statement, Defendant No.2
has not questioned the jurisdiction of this Court. It has submitted to the
jurisdiction by filing its written statement. Consequently, the apprehension
that Defendant No.2 would avoid the jurisdiction of this Court and,
therefore, it is necessary to make its subsidiary Defendant No.1 a party to
the present suit, is misplaced. 18. Likewise, even as regards Defendant No.3, there is nothing to show that
it is involved, directly or indirectly, in the BlackBerry App World or its
activities. Defendant No.3 is not shown to have any contractual relationship
with Defendant No.11. There is no specific allegation against Defendant
No.3 about its role in the alleged infringing activities complained of in the
suit. Even in reply to the application, there is only a broad allegation that the CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 9 of 22 Defendants are infringing the copyright of the Plaintiffs. There is no
specific allegation as regards Defendant No.3 having been responsible in
any manner for controlling what is available on the BlackBerry App
platform. Defendant No.4 has also not refused to submit to the jurisdiction
of this court. The only relationship between Defendants 3 and 4 is that
Defendant No.3 is the Indian subsidiary of Defendant No.4. Defendant No.4
has filed its written statement and has not questioned the jurisdiction of this
Court. Consequently, there appears to be no justification for impleading
Defendant No.3 only because it happens to be the subsidiary of Defendant
No.4. 19. It was submitted by Ms. Pratibha Singh, learned counsel for the
Plaintiffs, that in the event of the suit being decreed against Defendants 2
and 4 and the decree put to execution, it may be necessary to move against
Defendants 1 and 3 as well, since they are the Indian subsidiaries of
Defendants 2 and 4 respectively. The mere fact that Defendant No.2
happens to be the subsidiary of Defendant No.1 and Defendant No.3 a
subsidiary of Defendant No.4 would not be sufficient for making them
parties to the suit, if they are not, in any way, involved in the infringing
activities complained of. 20. For the aforementioned reasons, this Court finds that neither Defendant
No.1 nor Defendant No.3 is a necessary or a proper party to the suit.
Accordingly, IA Nos. 7706 and 7707 of 2012 are allowed and Defendants 1
and 3 are directed to be deleted from the array of parties. 21. This is an application by Defendant No.10, Amazon.com Inc. for
deleting its name from the array of parties. 22. The specific allegation against Defendant No.10 is contained in para 19
of the plaint, which reads as under: 23. Ms. Pratibha M. Singh, learned counsel for the Plaintiffs, referred to
page 287 of the list of documents, which lists out the links in respect of each
of the four stories which are offered on the Amazon platform. At page 288
of the documents, the screen shot of the relevant web page at Amazon.com
has been included. On the left side of the said page, the picture image of the
story "The Flower Goes For A Walk". Next to the said image the following
text appears: 24. By clicking on the words 'Teknowledge Software' the viewer is taken to
the website where the story is made available for a price as indicated.
However, on the Amazon.com page itself, it is not possible for a viewer to
see anything more than just the image. This is because in the lower part of
the page, the download restrictions have been set out as under: 25. Defendant No.10 filed its written statement on 23rd July 2010. In
response to the order dated 19th March 2012, the affidavit of Mr. Rakesh
Bakshi, the authorised signatory of Defendant No.10 was filed on 17th July
2012. The said affidavit sets out the number of downloads and the revenue
collections for the App "Story Time for Kids" as regards each of the stories
as well as the advertisement revenue booked in connection with the
advertisement on the App. It is stated in paras 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the said
affidavit as under: 26. Ms. Sneha Jain, learned counsel for Defendant No.10, submitted that
this Court has no territorial or subject-matter jurisdiction over the alleged
infringing acts of Defendant No.10. It has contended that the territorial and
subject matter scope of the CA would extend only to the acts of
infringement which occur within India. It is contended that the long-arm
statute provision in Section 62 CA would not extend to activities outside
India. Reference has also been made to Clause 4 of the "Amazon Appstore
for Android Terms of Use" which stipulates that that the Apps would be
made available only to customers located in the United States. It is
accordingly submitted that no cause of action has arisen within the scope of
the CA in India. 27. On the same lines, Defendant No.10 has filed the present application, IA
No. 13852 of 2012 seeking its deletion from the array of parties. It is CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 13 of 22 pointed out that the plaint fails to state any material fact disclosing any
infringement in India of the Plaintiffs' copyright by Defendant No.10. It is
stated that no averments have been made in the plaint alleging that the App
"Story Time For Kids" or the App for each of the stories is available in
India for download accessible through Defendant No.10. It is stated that the
remaining paragraphs of the plaint contained allegations of infringement
against all the Defendants generally without disclosing the specific act of
infringement attributable to Defendant No.10. It is asserted that Defendant
No.10 uses various technological filters to enforce compliance with the
above prohibition concerning availability of Amazon Appstore only to
customers located in the US. It is stated that none of the Apps have been
"reproduced, downloaded, or communicated through Amazon's Appstore
for Android to the public, within the territorial limits of India." It is stated
that unless the Plaintiffs make specific disclosures of existence of a cause of
action in India qua the Defendant No.10, i.e., infringement of copyright
through Amazon's Appstore for Android in India, the Court cannot apply Section 62 CA to assert jurisdiction over Defendant No.10. 28. In the reply filed to the above application, it is stated that since
Defendant No.10 has provided for the download of the impugned Apps
from its store, as is clear from the affidavit of Mr. Bakshi and there are 33
downloads for a revenue of approximately USD 24.75, Defendant No.10
has infringed the copyright of the Plaintiffs, irrespective of where the said
downloads have taken place. It is stated by the Plaintiffs that under Section
14 CA, the owner of the copyright has a right to protect his interests and
initiate proceedings against any infringement irrespective of where the CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 14 of 22 infringing activities take place. Reliance is placed on the decisions in Exphar SA v. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. ( 2004) 3 SCC 688, Dodha
House v. S.K. Maingi ( 2006) 9 SCC 41 and Super Cassettes Industries Ltd.
v. Myspace Inc. 2011(47) PTC 49 (Del.). Reliance is also placed on the
decision of the Madras High Court in Consim Info Pvt. Ltd. v. Google
India Pvt. Ltd. 2011(45) PTC 575. 29. Ms. Pratibha Singh submitted that the covering page 'The Flower Goes
For A Walk', which is displayed on the Amazon.com website is an artistic
work and the mere reproduction of that artistic work on the website of
Amazon.com constitutes an infringement, since it was without the
permission of the author of the work. She referred to Section 51(a) (i) read
with Section 62 CA. She added that the revenue is being earned by
Amazon.com from the activities of Defendant No.11 as was evident from
the agreement it has entered with Defendant No.11. She accordingly
submitted that Defendant No.10 is a necessary and a proper party. It is
stated that Amazon.com controls how the Apps are viewable in India. 30. The Court is of the view that while Section 62(2) CA is a long-arm
provision, the CA itself operates only through the territory of India. For the
infringing activity to constitute a cause of action, it must be shown to have
taken place in the territory of India. In Banyan Tree v. A. Murali Krishna
Reddy 2010 (42) PTC 361, the Court held that a passive website would not
by itself vest the forum court with jurisdiction. A commercial transaction
should be shown to have been concluded using the website within the
jurisdiction of the forum court. 31. In Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. v. Myspace Inc. (supra), the website
of the Defendant was found to be "engaged in the online business of
providing and exhibiting the songs and cinematograph films worldwide
including India." The Court further noted "the said website is usually
accessed by Indians for downloading the songs of upcoming movies from
the website of the defendants." Also , in that case , the Court noted that "The
Plaintiff has substantiated the cause of action by showing some instances of
infringements which has been caused in relation to the specific works. Thus,
the said commission of the tort has occurred or occurs in India wherein the
Indian user goes to the website, the defendants through its search engine
exhibits the said works and the work is communicated to the public by
sending the work to him and facilitating downloading or reaching to the
computer of Indian user." It was found that "the said actions are sufficient
to constitute part of cause of action under Section 20(c) of the Code of Civil
Procedure." 32. In the present case, however, the website Amazon.com makes it clear
that the facility is only available to the viewers in US and not elsewhere.
The agreement with Defendant No.11 also specifies this. The affidavit of
Mr. Bakshi also makes it clear that there were 33 downloads for a revenue
of approximately USD 24.75 and that the downloads took place in the US
and not in India. In other words, there is nothing to show that using the
website of Amazon.com any transaction constituting infringement of the
copyright of the Plaintiffs was concluded in India. The decisions in Dodha
House v. S.K. Maingi and Exphar SA v. Eupharma Laboratories Ltd. , do
not support the case of the Plaintiffs that Section 62(2) CA would enable the CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 16 of 22 Plaintiffs to bring a suit against a foreign Defendant notwithstanding the
fact that no part of the cause of action arose within the territory of the forum
Court. 33. In SmithKline Beecham Plc v. Sunil Singhi 2001 PTC 321(Del), the
Court, in the context of Section 62(2) CA, accepted a similar plea that the
Defendant ought to be shown to be carrying on its local business activities
within India. The decision in Consim Info Pvt. Ltd. v. Google India Pvt.
Ltd. does not assist the Plaintiffs. In the said judgment , the High Court of
Madras found it necessary to allow the application of the Plaintiff seeking
the impleadment of Google Inc. as the fifth Defendant in the suit. The stand
taken by Google India Pvt. Ltd. in its counter affidavit in the said case was
that "it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Google Inc., USA and that Google
Inc. is the owner of the search engine." The Court accepted the plea and
observed that "Perhaps, the policies are trimmed by the subsidiaries in
different jurisdictions, depending upon the local laws. But, ultimately, it is
the holding company which owns the search engine." 34. The mere fact that the image of one of the stories is able to be viewed on
Amazon.com cannot by itself furnish a cause of action. That is not even the
case pleaded by the Plaintiffs in the first place. The Plaintiffs case is one of
infringement of their copyright as a result of the downloading of their
stories from various websites of the Defendants and not because the image
of the stories is able to be viewed on the websites including Amazon.com. 35. For the aforementioned reasons, the Court is satisfied that Defendant CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 17 of 22 No.10 is neither a necessary nor a proper party to the suit. The application is
accordingly allowed. Defendant No.10 is directed to be deleted from the
array of parties. IA No. 7821 of 2013 (under Order I Rule 10 CPC ) 36. This is an application on behalf of Defendant No.5 Apple India Pvt. Ltd.
('Apple India') under Order I Rule 10 CPC for deletion of its name from the
array of parties. 37. Apple India states that the averment in para 16 of the plaint that the
iTunes store is operated both by Apple India as well as Apple Inc
(Defendant No.6) is not correct. It is stated that it is operated by
Luxembourg based entity namely 'iTunes S.a.r.l.' A reference is made to
the terms and conditions ('T&C') to which a user has to agree prior to using
iTunes store and services. It is pointed out that the T&C itself states that
"the stores are operated by iTunes from its offices in Luxembourg". It is
contended that (a) Apple India does not exercise any control, direction or
oversight over the iTunes store; (b) Apple India does not determine what
content/Applications are to be made available on the store; and (c) Apple
India does not determine pricing nor does it collect any monies itself for any
downloads/sales of Applications from the iTunes store. 38. Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior counsel appearing for the
Applicant, referred to the affidavit filed by Mr. Mark Buckley dated 22nd
April 2012 on behalf of Apple Inc pursuant to the order dated 17th March
2012 stating that "Apple India Pvt. Ltd. is not involved in the operations of CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 18 of 22 the App Store services". He also referred to the written statement on behalf
of Defendants 5 and 6 where it is stated that "Apple India does not exercise
any control, direction or oversight over the App Store and plays no role in
determining the content/Applications to be made available therein". It is
further stated in para 3 of the written statement that Apple Operations
International (AOI) owns 99% of Apple India and Apple Inc owns 96.42%
shares of AOI. It is stated that Apple India was incorporated only to provide
sales support to Apple Inc within India and that has nothing to do with the
present suit. In reply to para 16 of the plaint it is specifically denied that
iTunes store is operated by Defendants 5 and 6. It is submitted that the
impugned stories "are not available for download on the iTunes store." The
impugned App can merely be downloaded via the iTunes store and "the said
App enables the users to choose and download numerous stories including
the four impugned stories." It is submitted that "the number of downloads
of the impugned App do not, in any manner, reflect the number of
downloads of the impugned stories." In the replication the Plaintiff denies
that "it is only the impugned app which can be downloaded by the iTunes
stores and that the said app enables the users to choose and download
numerous stories including the four impugned stories." Mr. Sudhir Chandra
relied on the decisions in Anjum Nath v. British Airways PLC ( 2007) ILR
2 Delhi 1187 and Facebook India Online Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Mufty Aijas
Arshad Qasmi 2013 VIII AD (Delhi) 245. 39. On the other hand, Ms. Pratibha M. Singh, learned counsel for the
Plaintiffs, submitted that from the affidavit of Mr. Mark Buckley, it was
clear that there have been downloads of the impugned apps from the app CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 19 of 22 store provided on the iTunes platform. The details of the number of
downloads and the number of updates and re-downloads for the application
"Story Time for Kids" from the iTunes platform and the other details
concerning the download of the Plaintiffs' stories have been set out in para
4 of the replication. It is stated that Apple Inc as well as Apple India have
provided free downloads through iTunes stores of the app "Story Time for
Kids" and it is further evident that the story "How the Rainbow was
Formed' was provided under the head "other stories" on payment basis and
thus there was a clear infringement of the Plaintiff's copyright. 40. Ms. Singh submitted that Section 14 of the Copyright Act was violated
as Apple India facilitated the download of iTunes. She relied upon the
decisions in International Business Corporation v. Bhagirath Dolkheria (2009) 155 PLR 34, State of Assam v. Union of India (2010) 10 SCC 408.
She further referred to the documents filed by the Plaintiff which included
the print out of the website and referred to the web address which showed
that the stories were downloadable from the web address
itunes.apple.com/in/app/storie-della-buona-notte. She pointed out that the
contact address for Apple was Apple India. 41. First, the law concerning necessary and proper parties as explained in
the decisions of the Courts may be noticed. In State of Assam v. Union of
India it was held in para 15 that "it is in the discretion of the Court to add or
implead proper parties for completely settling all the questions that may be
involved in the controversy". It was further clarified in para 16 that "a
necessary party is one without whom, no order can be made effectively and CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 20 of 22 a proper party is one in whose absence an effective order can be made but
whose presence is necessary for a complete and final decision of the
question involved in the proceeding." In International Business
Corporation, the above principal was reiterated. 42. In Anjum Nath it was held that a bare allegation of fraud or collusion is
not sufficient to maintain an action against parties arrayed in the memo of
parties "unless material particulars disclosing cause of action against the
Defendants so arrayed were spelled out in the plaint itself." In Facebook
India Online Services Pvt. Ltd. while reiterating the above principle it was
pointed out that "where there is merely a generic allegation without any
specific relief being sought against any defendant, no decree can be passed
against them." 43. In the present case, it cannot be said that there is no averment
whatsoever concerning Apple India. It appears that the iTunes download is
available on the website of Apple India. The question whether download
can be made of the impugned story in India using the Apple India website
will be a matter for evidence. Prima facie it does appear that the iTunes
store could be visited using the website of Apple India which is the first step
towards downloading of the impugned stories. While it is not possible at
this stage to come to a definite conclusion on the role of Apple India, it is
equally not possible at this stage to decide to the contrary viz., that Apple
India has nothing to do whatsoever with the download of the impugned
stories through the app provided on iTunes store. 44. Consequently, the Court is unable to accept the plea of the Applicant
that Apple India is neither a necessary nor a proper party in the suit. While
an issue will be framed on this question, the Court is not persuaded to strike
off Apple India from the array of parties at this stage. The application is
accordingly dismissed. S. MURALIDHAR, J. NOVEMBER 28, 2013
tp CS (OS) No. 676 of 2012 Page 22 of 22