On November 10, the Delhi High Court accepted an appeal for a copyright dispute between Hulm Entertainment and Fantasy Sports. As first reported by SpicyIP , Hulm Entertainment has argued that Fantasy Sports copied the graphical user interface (GUI) and original trading and stock features of its copyright-protected fantasy sports mobile application Exchange22 in an update of Fantasy Sports’ game MYFAB11. The dispute has been ongoing since 2022 with the court issuing its latest verdict on the matter in October this year, ruling in favor of Fantasy Sports and stating that no copyright infringement had taken place. The appeal against the previous judgment was supposed to be taken up on December 19, 2023, but has now been pushed back to March 15, 2024.

On April 13 2022, the Delhi High Court granted Hulm Entertainment a temporary injunction that prevented Fantasy Sports from using Hulm Entertainment’s copyrighted works in an unauthorized manner. It also directed the deregistration of the domain name myfab11.com and ordered the delisting of MYFAB11’s mobile application. On April 24, 2022, Fantasy Sports’ lawyer said that the company had removed the stock feature from MYFAB11. With the stock feature removed, the court permitted the download of MYFAB11 while still restraining Fantasy Sports from infringing on Hulm Entertainment’s copyright.

Then in October 2023, the court reversed its previous judgment stating that no copyright infringement occurred given that Hulm Entertainment’s concept note lacked details of which specific aspect of the GUI it held copyright over. This reversed judgment has been stayed and the injunction ordered on April 24, 2022, has been reimposed.

Hulm Entertainment’s registered copyright work includes the detailed working of the game and its “components” (this means every step of the user experience such as the components of the “Home Page,” “My Portfolio Page,” “My Balance Page,” etc). It held copyright ownership over the interface of Exchange22 and also applied for a patent registration for its invention which relates to a system and a method of trading the value of a player by users in an online environment.

The company said that it came up with the idea of integrating the features of a Fantasy Sports League and the Stock Market in the year 2010. Then, in August 2019, the company launched the beta version of their application Exchange 22 based on this idea. Exchange 22 is a fantasy league gaming platform for cricket, football, basketball, and kabaddi that allows players to buy/sell the players in the same manner that one would buy and sell shares. This game, the company said, is registered under the Copyright Act of 1957.

It explained that on March 25, 2022, a day before the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches were to begin, Fantasy Sports released an updated version of its game MYFAB11 which was identical to Exchange22. The company argued that the concept, expression, and user interface of MYFAB11’s new update is a substantial reproduction of its registered copyright and thus, it sent Fantasy Sports a cease and desist notice. Fantasy Sports, however, denied any copyright infringement.

In October 2023, the Delhi High Court heard this case again. Fantasy Sports argued that Hulm Entertainment had concealed that buy/sell was “only a small part of the [MYFAB11] application” whereas the primary feature allows its users to select players and build a team like many other fantasy league apps. It also pointed out that HULM had sought the suspension of myfab11.com when the name had nothing in common with Exchange22. The lawyers said that the Delhi High Court had been misguided by Hulm Entertainment to believe that it was the first to come up with the concept of combining fantasy league and stock market when there are many other applications based on similar concepts internationally and in India.

Fantasy Sports’ legal counsel said that concepts and ideas cannot be protected under the copyright act and that only “expression of ideas” is granted protection. “In view of the similarity of features with several pre-existing Apps, copyright asserted by the Plaintiffs [Hulm Entertainment]over the concept fails on account of lack of originality, which is a sine qua non [an essential condition] under the copyright regime, to allege infringement,” they argued. On the copyrightability of GUIs, Fantasy Sports’ lawyers argued that GUI is not a ‘work’ under the copyright act and therefore, there can be no copyright in a GUI, per se.

What has the Delhi High Court said during the current case?

The court stated that a GUI is made up of a computer program, a visual display and the text/literary works contained within the GUI. It held that Hulm Entertainment had not claimed copyright over it as an artistic work and, therefore, no claim can be laid to a copyright in the graphic elements of the visual display of GUI. Similarly, the company has also not claimed copyright over the computer programme, and therefore no monopoly could be sought over that either. The only thing the company had claimed copyright over was the concept note (containing the game’s working and components) and it had made no arguments about how MYFAB11 copied the concept note of Exchange22.

Further, having carefully considered screenshots of the two apps, the court could not conclude that MYFAB11 has substantially copied Exchange 22. “While it cannot be denied that there are a few similarities those are insignificant and the dissimilarities outweigh the trivial similarities,” the court observed. As such, the court held that based on first impression MYFAB11’s user interface was not a substantial copy of Exchange22.

While the Delhi High Court in October this year had assessed that there was no copyright infringement in this case, it had never explicitly said that copyright could not be claimed over GUI. It simply argued that Hulm Entertainment had not sought copyright protection for any of the elements of a GUI. This new appeal could help shed light on the copyrightability of GUIs in India and how the court interprets the same.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event