— Download the FIR filed against CoinDCX co-founders here.

Sumit Gupta and Neeraj Khandelwal, co-founders of crypto exchange CoinDCX, were on Saturday (March 21) placed under arrest along with four others by the Thane Police in connection with a Rs 71.60 lakh fraud case.

The action was taken on a written complaint filed on March 16 by Ashish Brijkishore Singh, a 42-year-old insurance advisor from Thane. The First Information Report (FIR), a copy of which MediaNama has reviewed, was registered at the Mumbra police station.

What does the complaint say?

The victim alleges that he met CoinDCX co-founders and other co-accused in the case multiple times between July 2025 and February 2026, who lured him with the promise of high returns on crypto investments and a purported franchise opportunity for a website with the URL: coindcx.pro.

Let’s take a closer look at the details of the case, as mentioned in the FIR:

The FIR in question was translated from Marathi to English using Google Translate. In case of any discrepancy, please let us know in the comments .

CoinDCX flags impersonation

In an official statement on X, CoinDCX said that the FIR filed against its co-founders is false , as the cheating happened through a website that impersonated the exchange’s brand and founders’ identities.

“The FIR filed against our co-founders is false and filed as a conspiracy against CoinDCX by impersonators posing as Founders of CoinDCX and cheating the public at large. We have taken cognizance of the fact and published a notice to the public at large on our website that CoinDCX is being targeted by fraudsters. The entire conspiracy falsely claims that funds were transferred in cash to third-party accounts which have no relation to CoinDCX,” the post read.

“Brand impersonation and related cyber frauds are an increasing concern in India’s digital finance ecosystem, and we strongly condemn such actions. We remain fully committed to supporting authorities in addressing such misconduct. Between April 1, 2024 and January 5, 2026, we have reported over 1,212 fake websites impersonating coindcx.com ,” it added.

Why this matters: The arrest of CoinDCX’s co-founders adds to a recent string of setbacks for the crypto exchange. In November 2025, the Hyderabad zonal office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seized Rs 8.46 crore held across 92 bank accounts, including those linked to CoinDCX and a few crypto wallets, as part of a money laundering probe into a nationwide cyber fraud racket built on fake e-commerce platforms and bogus investment apps.

In July last year, the crypto platform suffered a major security breach , resulting in the theft of Rs 368 crore ($44.2 million). While Gupta clarified on X that the hack did not impact customer accounts, the theft eroded users’ trust in the company and the broader crypto market, which was still reeling under the $230 million WazirX hack that occurred in 2024.

Amid regulatory and financial troubles, CoinDCX also saw multiple senior exits last year, including that of Vivek Gupta, Chief Technology Officer; Tushar Tarun, Vice President and Head of Legal; Mudita Chauhan, Chief Human Resources Officer; and Sridhar G, Senior Vice President and Head of Information Security.

It must also be noted that CoinDCX and WazirX were also among the 17 crypto platforms under investigation by GST authorities in 2024 for alleged tax evasions worth Rs 824 crore.

[With inputs from PTI]

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event