at Kolkata and the O.T. report of such surgery had opined

 that the wife-petitioner had "Liver Bed Adhesion" due to PID. It is not

 the case of the husband respondent that the surgery at Kolkata on

 07.12.2012 was done without his knowledge or the O.T. report

 mentioning specific diseases was also not in his knowledge. To the

 contrary, the insurance claim settlement advice [(Annexure-P/1) (b)]

 which is the one of the documents of the husband-respondent as

 produced with his main petition of the matrimonial case, discloses that

 the said claim settlement advice for the medical treatment at Kolkata

 has been issued in the name of the husband-respondent as primary

 member, and the final diagnosis has also been mentioned therein as

 "other Female Pelvic Inflammatory Disease" respondent had the knowledge of the said disease suffered by the

 wife-petitioner when he gave his consent to the initiation of the

 process for birth of a child only after having been medically assured

 that the child to be born would not carry the infection from those

 diseases. The said child took birth on 14.04.2014 and even thereafter

 the husband-respondent and the wife-petitioner lived together as

 husband and wife till alleged desertion on 20.04.2015. As these

 statements are manifest from the pleadings and the documents of the

 husband-respondent himself they no longer remain disputed questions

 of facts. These facts are clearly admissions in pleadings and the

 admitted document on record which are fully binding upon the

 husband-respondent and constituting a waiver of proof as laid down

 by the Apex Court in Nagindas Ramdas Vs. Dalpatram Echharam ,

 1974 (1) SCC 242. This factual backdrop therefore leaves no room

 for doubt that the leave for amendments as prayed, if allowed, would
 Patna High Court C.Misc. No.300 of 2017 dt.15-03-2017 16 take away the legal right which has accrued to the wife-petitioner by

 virtue of Section 12 (2) (a) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The

 learned court below while passing the impugned order has definitely

 ignored this aspect of the matter while allowing the amendments

 introducing the relief for annulment of marriage and incorporating the

 facts of fraud in the main petition of the matrimonial case. This Court

 thus holds that the proposed amendment for incorporating the relief of

 annulment of marriage on ground of fraud cannot be allowed in view

 of Section 12(2)(a) of Hindu Marriage Act in the facts and

 circumstances of the case. Examining this matter from another angle also, it

 has been earlier discussed that the averments in the main petition do

 not at all carry even an iota of allegation of fraud which is sought to

 be introduced by the statements made in the proposed paragraph 36(a)

 to 36(e). In the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mombay Vs.

 Lala Pancham , AIR 1965 SC 1008, a five Judge Bench of the Apex

 court has overturned the order allowing the amendment in the plaint

 introducing the allegations of fraud for the first time , holding as

 follows: have been understood to mean "new set of

 ideas": Dornan v. J.W. Ellis & Co. Ltd. [(1962)

 1 All ER 303]. This also seems to us to be a

 reasonable view to take. No amendment will be

 allowed to introduce a new set of ideas to the

 prejudice of any right acquired by any party by

 lapse of time." (emphasis supplied)

 The above dictum has been succinctly reiterated in B.K.Narayana Pillai Vs. Parameswaran Pillai , 2000 (1) SCC 712 as

 follows: From the aforesaid authoritative pronouncement

 of law, it is discernible that the amendment in the pleading seeking to

 introduce new set of ideas and new cause of action alongwith entirely

 new relief with definite deviation from the earlier pleading and the

 relief cannot be allowed. In the present case, it is manifest that by the

 proposed amendments the husband respondent has prayed to make the

 relief for grant of a decree of annulment of marriage as the main relief

 in the matrimonial case and the relief for grant of a decree of divorce

 has been sought to be made the alternative relief. Apparently the

 relief for annulment of marriage and the relief for a decree of divorce

 are inconsistent reliefs the later presupposing a valid and subsisting

 marriage. As held by the apex court in Sampatth Kumar Vs.

 Ayyakannu and Anr ,2002 (7) SCC 559 and reiterated in Alkapuri

 Cooperative Housing Society Ltd Vs. Jayantibhai Naginbhai , AIR

 2009 SC 1948 the change of the basic structure of the suit by

 amendment is impermissible. Evincibly, in the facts of the present

 case, the nature, scope and cause of action of the matrimonial case as

 instituted would be changed by the proposed amendments. None of

 the authorities, relied upon on behalf of the husband-respondent hold

 differently and therefore the conclusion is inevitable that the

 amendments as prayed cannot be legally permitted.
 Patna High Court C.Misc. No.300 of 2017 dt.15-03-2017 22 The challenge to the legal sustainability of the

 impugned order has also been resisted by learned counsel for the

 husband-respondent proponing a contention that as the present

 amendments have been sought in the matrimonial case at the pre-trial

 stage when the amendments in the pleadings should be liberally

 allowed, no interference is called for. In the first blush, this

 submission is impressive. However, its potentiality apparently has

 faded away after the order by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the

 matter. From the first paragraph of the order of the Hon‟ble Supreme

 Court dated 25.11.2016 (Annexure P/2) in Transfer Petition (civil)

 1988/2015, it is evident that though the husband petitioner appeared

 in the proceeding before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court but did not

 disclose before the Hon‟ble Court the fact of pending petition for

 amendment seeking to substantially change the nature of the

 proceeding by praying mainly for a decree of annulment of marriage

 and alternatively praying for a decree of divorce. The Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court has, in fact, passed the order and direction taking the

 proceeding to be under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act seeking

 divorce. The prayer for modification of the said order as made by the

 husband respondent has also been dismissed by the apex court on

 28.02.2017. It is not the submission on behalf of the husband

 respondent before this Court that the husband respondent has at any
 Patna High Court C.Misc. No.300 of 2017 dt.15-03-2017 23 stage informed the Hon‟ble Supreme Court regarding the proposed

 change of the nature of the proceeding by seeking amendment. It has

 been strongly contended on behalf of the wife petitioner that the

 husband-responded is bent upon to avoid the determination of the

 dispute within the time frame fixed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

 and the fact has been highlighted that another petition for amendment

 has also been filed by the husband respondent on 18.02.2017 as well

 as a petition under Section 26 of the Hindu Marriage Act. It has also

 been submitted that even though by order dated 20.2.2017 while

 issuing notice in the matter, this Court has only stayed the operation

 of the impugned order dated 09.02.2017 and not the further

 proceeding in the court below but the husband-respondent, who is

 petitioner in the Matrimonial Case No.43 of 2017 in the court below,

 has filed petition seeking adjournment on 04.03.2017 as well as

 09.03.2017 even though the wife petitioner who is opposite party in

 the said matrimonial case has already filed her written statement and

 was personally present on those dates to participate in the proceeding

 and has also insisted upon for examination of the husband-respondent

 in the proceeding. It has also been pointed out on behalf of the wife-

 petitioner that the husband-respondent has so far failed to examine

 himself or any witness on his behalf in the proceeding even in face of

 the order of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court fixing 31.03.2017 by which
 Patna High Court C.Misc. No.300 of 2017 dt.15-03-2017 24 the proceeding is to be finally disposed of. The learned counsel appearing for the husband

 respondent however has refuted the assertions made on behalf of the

 wife petitioner and has submitted that the respondent husband is

 cooperating in the disposal of the proceeding in the court below in

 accordance with law. It is explicit from the order dated 25.11.2016

 (Annexure-P/2) that the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in no uncertain

 terms, has directed for the disposal of the matrimonial case seeking

 divorce (HMA No. 834 of 2015 now renumbered as Matrimonial Case

 No. 43 of 2017) by the end of March 2017. The prayer for

 modification of the said order, as prayed by the husband-respondent,

 has also been rejected. The non-disclosure of the fact before the

 Hon‟ble Supreme Court regarding the proposed amendments

 changing the nature, scope and cause of action of the matrimonial

 proceeding and the direction by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court to

 dispose of the proceeding by the end of March 2017, when considered

 together, dilute the substance of the submission that the amendments

 of pleadings at pre-trial stage of the proceeding should be liberally

 allowed as the attempt, in this manner, to overreach the order and

 direction of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court cannot be ruled out. For the aforesaid premised reasons and
 Patna High Court C.Misc. No.300 of 2017 dt.15-03-2017 25 discussions, this Court holds that the learned court below has

 committed illegality and material irregularity in allowing the prayer

 for amendment by the husband respondent herein (petitioner in

 matrimonial case no.43/2017) as made in his petition dated

 05.01.2016. This application is accordingly allowed and the

 impugned order is quashed. The petition dated 05.01.2016 for

 amendment is, accordingly, rejected. The learned court of Principal

 Judge, Family Court, Patna is directed to dispose of the Matrimonial

 Case No. 43/2017 in accordance with the direction of the Hon‟ble

 Supreme Court. Let this order be communicated to the court of

 Principal Judge, Family Court, Patna immediately. (V. Nath, J)
Nitesh/- U