1. The pe oner, who is a female Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police in Haryana
Police, apprehending the arrest in the FIR cap oned above, has come up before this
Court under Sec on 438 CrPC seeking An cipatory bail by ﬁling the present pe on on
03.11.2023. 2. Vide order dated 06.11.2023, this Court had granted interim an cipatory bail to
the pe oner, which is con nuing to date. 3. The pe oner's general conten on is that the custodial inves ga on is neither
required nor would serve any purpose whatsoever, and the pre-trial incarcera on would
cause an irreversible injus ce to the pe oner and family. 4. The state's counsel opposes the bail and states that considering the allega ons,
the pe oner's custodial interroga on is necessary. 5. The facts are being taken from a reply dated 18.11.2023 ﬁled by the Assistant
Commissioner of Police, Pataudi, Gurugram, and it would be relevant to extract the FIR
from paragraph 2 of the said reply, which reads as follows: 6. I have heard counsel for the par es and gone through the pe on as well as the
reply. It would be relevant to extract paragraph 12 of the aforesaid reply which reads as
follows: 7. Counsel for the pe oner has argued that it is a case of false implica on, and the
FIR was registered a>er a delay of 60 days. He further submits that the pe oner is
falsely implicated, and there is no evidence against her that she had received any money.
Even per the prosecu on's case, out of the demand of Rs.2 lakhs, Rs.90,000/- was paid
to Binita Kumari. He further submits that the telephonic conversa on is not connected
with the pe oner. 8. However, on the contrary, Mr. Rajat Gautam, Addi onal Advocate General for the
State of Haryana submits that it was a case of honey trap in which the pe oner, being a
Police Oﬃcer, was involved. She also tried to befool the complainant and got her share
of the bribe from the total bribe received by her co-accused. Even though she had a due 3 3 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2023 04:48:10 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:157243

CRM-M-55829-2023

from the share of the remaining amount, they were exposed before the complainant
would have paid it. He further submits that it is a case of honey trapping where innocent
males are being allured to do a consensual sexual ac vity, which is later given the color
of forcible sexual intercourse, i.e., rape or molesta on, and money is extracted from
them. State counsel further submits that the families are being destroyed because of
this honey trapping, and whatever the complainant has stated in the complaint is
truthful. State counsel on instruc on submits that they want custodial interroga on of
the pe oner to ﬁnd out the involvement of other ladies involved in similar honey
trapping. 9. An analysis of pleadings of the bail pe on and the reply as well as the
arguments addressed in the Court would lead to the following outcome. 10. The prosecu on has gathered suﬃcient evidence that the pe oner persuaded
the complainant to seEle the maEer in return for money. Being a police oﬃcer, she was
under an obliga on to maintain law and order and to protect people from any crime. On
the contrary, she was a member of a trapping gang and was extor ng the complainant to
extract money from him. The pe oner, being a member of the police force, was aware
of so> provisions to deal with false implica ons and also wrong provisions, when the
complainant and witnesses make a false statement, and she exploited the legal
loopholes by circula ng to the complainant that in case he did not pay, he would be
involved in a severe sexual oﬀence maEer, and his liberty would be socially curtailed.
Under such pressure, they were able to extract an amount of Rs. 90,000/-from the
complainant. 11. The Legislature had made extremely stringent laws to protect women from
perverts, criminals, and those who do not respect womanhood. However, evil women
like the pe oner, themselves being female and knowing their frailty, took advantage of
the provision of stringent laws enacted to protect them by roping in innocent males in
honey trapping. Honey trapping is a sneaky tac c to cheat, like a spider weaving a web
to catch its prey. Honey trapping, o>en employed for espionage or personal gain,
involves seduc on to manipulate individuals into compromising situa ons. Beyond
damaging trust in personal rela onships, it can have broader societal consequences. In
the realm of na onal security, honey trapping can jeopardize conﬁden al informa on as
individuals targeted may unwiJngly disclose sensi ve details. It poses a threat not only
to the individuals involved but also to the security of na ons. Governments and
organiza ons invest heavily in counterintelligence to mi gate these risks. On a societal
level, the erosion of trust due to honey trapping can lead to increased skep cism and
suspicion. People may become more guarded, hindering genuine connec ons and 4 4 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2023 04:48:10 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:157243

CRM-M-55829-2023

coopera on. It may also contribute to a breakdown in the social fabric and healthy
rela onships because human collabora ons are built on a founda on of trust. 12. In today's world, social media plaKorms are used as channels through which
individuals seek to quench their basic social need to form human connec ons. In their
quest to seek human companionship, amid impulsive expecta ons to indulge in
rela onships, they become suscep ble to malicious aEacks by certain notorious
elements of society, who, on the pretext of forming a genuine connec on, aim at
monetary gains through harassment and extor on of the unsuspec ng public. When
such personal interac ons take a more in mate contour, black and white seems to
become an indis nguishable grey to the naked public eye. Given the historical and
cultural fabric of Indian society/trusts the female narra ve, as crimes against women
have me and again shocked the collec ve conscience of our society. However, in cases
where the 'vic m narra ve' is fabricated, as a ploy used by certain evil-inten oned
women to threaten or harass innocent men and take advantage of our criminal jus ce
system, serious considera on and sensi za on is required. In such sensi ve maEers,
where a guiltless man, aggrieved by false play, in order to protect his dignity and hard-
earned reputa on, knocks on the door of our criminal jus ce system to salvage
whatever is le> of his sanity, and is driven astray, it is a maEer of grave concern for the
society at large. We have to ask ourselves if we want to accept a society where a public
oﬃcer on duty to protect the welfare of its ci zens, instead of assuring the vic m of an
alleged crime of geJng jus ce, monopolizes and thrives on his fear and vulnerability,
poten ally aiding and assis ng the real perpetrators of crime, in lieu of money? In our
society, when a man is charged with a heinous crime like that of rape, the consequences,
both legal and social, are profound. The burden of poten ally carrying a tainted
reputa on for life may lead even a socially well-adjusted man to lose his personality,
make him unable to face his family, friends, and peers, poten ally driving him to
depression or suicide because of the associated shame, fear, humilia on, loss of career
and loss of honour which comes along with such allega ons. The eﬀects of false
accusa ons of molesta on or rape on a man's psychological, professional, and personal
well-being are devasta ngly far-reaching, and the adverse impacts of such labelling on a
virtuous ra onal man's psyche and personality cannot be quan ﬁed. It is these ill eﬀects
that serve as an ideal environment for those who wish to ﬂourish in the honey-trapping
business, pushing the vic m into a corner so he has no other alternate recourse than to
succumb to their unfair demands in a poten ally vola le situa on. 13. The pe oner's conduct has led to the outcome cap oned above. An analysis of
the allega ons and evidence collected does not warrant the grant of bail to the 5 5 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2023 04:48:10 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:157243

CRM-M-55829-2023

pe oner. Given the nature of allega ons, the pe oner fails to make a case for
an cipatory bail, and her custodial interroga on is required to unearth the racket and
ﬁnd the involvement of other police oﬃcers and other members of the gang. 14. In Sumitha Pradeep v Arun Kumar CK , 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1529, Supreme Court
holds,
 [16]. ... We have no ced one common argument being canvassed
 that no custodial interroga on is required and, therefore,
 an cipatory bail may be granted. There appears to be a serious
 misconcep on of law that if no case for custodial interroga on is
 made out by the prosecu on, then that alone would be a good
 ground to grant an cipatory bail. Custodial interroga on can be
 one of the relevant aspects to be considered along with other
 grounds while deciding an applica on seeking an cipatory bail.
 There may be many cases in which the custodial interroga on of
 the accused may not be required, but that does not mean that the
 prima facie case against the accused should be an cipatory bail.
 The ﬁrst and foremost thing that the court hearing an an cipatory
 bail applica on should consider is the prima facie case put up
 against the accused. Therea>er, the nature of the oﬀence should
 be looked into along with the severity of the punishment.
 Custodial interroga on can be one of the grounds to decline
 an cipatory bail. However, even if custodial interroga on is not
 required or necessitated, by itself, cannot be a ground to grant
 an cipatory bail. 15. In State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal (1987) 2 SCC 364, Supreme Court
holds,
 [5]. ....The en re community is aggrieved if the economic
 oﬀenders who ruin the economy of the State are not brought to
 book. A murder may be commiEed in the heat of moment upon
 passions being aroused. An economic oﬀence is commiEed with
 cool calcula on and deliberate design with an eye on personal
 proﬁt regardless of the consequence to the community. A
 disregard for the interest of the community can be manifested
 only at the cost of forfei ng the trust and faith of the community
 in the system to administer jus ce in an even-handed manner
 without fear of cri cism from the quarters which view white collar
 crimes with a permissive eye unmindful of the damage done to the
 na onal economy and na onal interest....." 16. In State rep. by CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, Supreme Court holds,
 [6]. We ﬁnd force in the submission of the CBI that custodial
 interroga on is qualita vely more elicita on oriented than
 ques oning a suspect who is well ensconded with a favourable
 order under Sec on 438 of the code. In a case like this eﬀec ve
 interroga on of suspected person is of tremendous advantage in
 disinterring many useful informa ons and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Succession such interroga on would
 elude if the suspected person knows that he is well protected and
 insulted by a pre-arrest bail during the me he interrogated. Very
 o>en interroga on in such a condi on would reduce to a mere
 ritual. The argument that the custodial interroga on is fraught with 6 6 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2023 04:48:10 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:157243

CRM-M-55829-2023

 the danger of the person being subjected to third degree methods
 need not be countenanced, for, such an argument can be advanced
 by all accused in all criminal cases. The court has to presume that
 responsible Police Oﬃcers would conduct themselves in task of
 disinterring oﬀences would not conduct themselves as oﬀenders. 17. In Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar and another (2012) 4 SCC 379, Supreme Court
holds,
 [19]. Parameters for grant of an cipatory bail in a serious oﬀence
 are required to be sa sﬁed and further while gran ng such relief,
 the court must record the reasons therefor. An cipatory bail can be
 granted only in excep onal circumstances where the court is prima
 facie of the view that the applicant has falsely been enroped in the
 crime and would not misuse his liberty. [See D.K. Ganesh Babu v.
 P.T. Manokaran ( 2007) 4 SCC 434, State of Maharashtra v. Mohd.
 Sajid Husain Mohd. S. Husain ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India
 v. Padam Narain Aggarwal (2008) 13 SCC 305]. 18. In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, Supreme Court holds,
 [34]. Economic oﬀences cons tute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a diﬀerent approach in the maEer of bail. The
 economic oﬀences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving
 huge loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and
 considered as grave oﬀences aﬀec ng the economy of the country
 as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the ﬁnancial
 health of the country. [35]. While gran ng bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature
 of accusa ons, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the
 severity of the punishment which convic on will entail, the
 character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
 accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses
 being tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considera ons. 19. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2019 9 SCC 24, Supreme Court
holds,
 [70]. We are conscious of the fact that the legisla ve intent behind
 the introduc on of Sec on 438 Cr.P.C ., 1973 is to safeguard the
 individual's personal liberty and to protect him from the possibility
 of being humiliated and from being subjected to unnecessary
 police custody. However, the court must also keep in view that a
 criminal oﬀence is not just an oﬀence against an individual, rather
 the larger societal interest is at stake. Therefore, a delicate balance
 is required to be established between the two rights - safeguarding
 the personal liberty of an individual and the societal interest. It
 cannot be said that refusal to grant an cipatory bail would amount
 to denial of the rights conferred upon the appellant under Ar cle
 21 of the Cons tu on of India. 20. In Central Bureau of Inves ga on v. Santosh Karnani, Cr.A 1148 of 2023, dated
17-04- 2023, Supreme Court, in an FIR registered under sec ons under Sec ons 7, 13(1)
and 13(2) of the Preven on of Corrup on Act, 1988, holds, 7 7 of 8 ::: Downloaded on - 09-12-2023 04:48:10 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:157243

CRM-M-55829-2023

 [24]. The me−tested principles are that no straitjacket formula
 can be applied for grant or refusal of an cipatory bail. The judicial
 discre on of the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors
 and largely it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of
 each case. The Court must draw a delicate balance between
 liberty of an individual as guaranteed under Ar cle 21 of the
 Cons tu on and the need for a fair and free inves ga on, which
 must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has devasta ng and
 irreversible social s gma, humilia on, insult, mental pain and
 other fearful consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court,
 on considera on of material informa on gathered by the
 Inves ga ng Agency, is prima facie sa sﬁed that there is
 something more than a mere needle of suspicion against the
 accused, it cannot jeopardise the inves ga on, more so when the
 allega ons are grave in nature. [31]. The nature and gravity of the alleged oﬀence should have
 been kept in mind by the High Court. Corrup on poses a serious
 threat to our society and must be dealt with iron hands. It not
 only leads to abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also
 tramples good governance. The common man stands deprived of
 the beneﬁts percola ng under social welfare schemes and is the
 worst hit. It is aptly said, "Corrup on is a tree whose branches are
 of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere; and the dew
 that drops from thence, Hath infected some chairs and stools of
 authority." Hence, the need to be extra conscious. 21. In the background of the allega ons and the light of the judicial precedents
men oned above in the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the pe oner fails
to make a case for an cipatory bail. 22. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits, neither the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to
these comments. Pe00on dismissed. Interim orders, if any, stand vacated. All pending applica ons, if any,
also stand disposed.