SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got a fake micro SD from an ebay seller, ebay sided with the scamming seller and rejected my refund request. I am not sure what to do
DATE: 2016-09-11
SCORE: 36
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/525nyx/got_a_fake_micro_sd_from_an_ebay_seller_ebay/

--- POST TEXT ---

I bought a Samsung 32 GB micro SD card from a seller whose name I do not know if I can reveal because I do not want to get banned from this subreddit for doxx

It's a fake micro SD card, plain and simple. I submitted crazy amount of proof proving the card iss the fake, but some thick skinned retard of an ebay CS ended up rejecting my request.

I submitted: http://imgur.com/KZbYN1K and two other photos which I can not find right now i will post later

This image is a number one giveaway that it's a fake. I don't know how else I can prove the shitfaces at ebay that the card I received is a fake.

I submitted this: 

&gt; The micro SD card sold to me is a fake AND it is not working. 

&gt;1) Let s start with how it s not working first of all. It will get deteced by my laptop for just a few seconds, showing how it s 32 GB and then it will throw errors if you try to do anything. I tried formatting it but it throws errors again. I have uploaded and included photos. This does not happen with my other legit micro SD card. I have also included a screenshot from my phone, showing how it s clearly fake.

&gt; 2) Card is a fake. Seller clearly mentioned Original Samsung MicroSDHC 32GB in his listing. I compared it with pictures online and even the picture in the listing itself. I uploaded a picture of the card as I received it and side by side included a picture of a genuine card which I took from Samsung.com. You can verify yourself by searching on Samsung s website. I have included the clues which giveaway that it is a fake in the image itself. 

&gt; 3) This seller comes off as a scammer. A low 70% positive feedback as it is, and I wouldn t be surprised if the positive reviews are by accounts he created. 

&gt; 4) The packaging was piss poor, and was conveniently open from the bottom, so that he can insert his fake micro SD card. I have included a picture. 

&gt; 5) There is no way in hell I am going to pay for sending this item back to the scammer so that he can repackage it and scam someone else. I d like a refund please.

Here's the response I got:

&gt; We tried to contact you on your registered number , but number was ringing. We have thouroughly investigate this claim, and found that the item you purchased is under manufacture warranty.We do not cover manufacturing warranty products and the option that is provided below will certainly help you with your concerns.The seller must have provided with an invoice, which you can take along with the product to the nearest service centre. You can also get in touch with the seller and he will be able to assist in case you require any further assistance helps with seller details , it will be great if you keep all your communications with the seller via member to member communication so that we are updated on your discussion with the seller. [PERSONAL INFORMATION] We have closed your claim and your request for refund has been rejected.For more information on the non-eligibility criteria to file a claim, kindly check the below mentioned link: http: pages.ebay.in/help/ebay-guarantee.html#terms. We regret of not being able to assist you on this matter. Thank you for shopping on eBay! Regards, [NAME OF CS REP] Claim Team 

I was in a long meeting. Some of us have actual work to do rather than type shit like these ebay CS people all day, and even if i could not pick up that does not change the fact that the seller sent me a fake sd card

Manufacture warranty? Is this a joke? Am I supposed to laugh?

I dont know what to do now. my money has gone down the drain and I am left with a non working sd card made in a sweatshop in china probably