1. By way of present petition filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C.,

prayer has been made for grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case

FIR No.23 dated 21.02.2024, registered under Section 420 IPC ( Section

120-B IPC added later on), at Police Station Cyber Crime Central Faridabad,

District Faridabad, wherein, the petitioner has been implicated for having

duped the complainant for a sum of Rs.1,34,328/- by way of an online

banking fraud. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there is no direct

evidence connecting the petitioner with the alleged offence and the main

accused, namely, Gaurav Chauhan has already refunded the amount

defrauded by him, to the complainant and a statement to this effect has also

been given by the complainant in his favour, which finds mention in the

order dated 05.04.2024 passed by the Judicial Magistrate Ist Class,

Faridabad while granting regular bail to him. prosecution agency about the petitioner having utilized the amount for

placing an order for gold chain on the day/date of fraud and having received

the same as depicted from the CCTV footage is a made-up story and thus,

the petitioner being not connected with the offence in hand deserves the

concession of anticipatory bail. 3. On the other hand, learned State counsel vehemently opposes the

prayer made on behalf of the petitioner while submitting that the petitioner is

directly connected with the offence in hand, as a CCTV footage from the

showroom of Blue Stone Jewellers, Faridabad has been obtained by the

Investigating Agency, wherein, the petitioner is clearly visible while

receiving the gold chain from the salesman while standing across the

counter. 3.1 Learned State counsel also submits that a sum of Rs.1,34,328/-

qua which the complainant was duped of by the petitioner with the aid of

co-accused (Gaurav Chauhan) was directly transferred to the account of

Blue Stone Jewellers, Faridabad. He further points out that all these

transactions were made with the help of three different mobile numbers

(i.e. 8130418758, 7017489341, 7906538189) being used by the petitioner.

He further points out that regarding the latter two mobile numbers (i.e.

7017489341, 7906538189), on verification, it was found that the sims were

obtained by the petitioner in a fraudulent manner by misusing the documents

of other individuals. He also submits that at the time of purchase of gold

chain even the address given by the petitioner was of Police Colony, New

Delhi rather than his own address of Village Basi, Bhagpat Uttar Pradesh,

which further fortifies his intent to commit fraud and further to escape

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-04-2024 23:15:20 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:055473

CRM-M-18219-2024 --3-- thereafter from the clutches of the Investigating Agency and thus, he does

not deserve the discretionary relief of anticipatory bail in the larger public

interest. 4. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and gone through the

paper book. 5. A cumulative analysis of the facts and circumstances of the case

made out from the records as well as the submissions made on behalf of the

parties, I am unable to find substance in the submissions made on behalf of

the petitioner. 6. Generally, in cases of online banking frauds, there is no direct

evidence available to connect the accused with the offence and it is only the

Investigating Agency which through its efforts, involving scientific

assistance provided through their expert teams of Cyber Crime is able to

connect the dots and reach the perpetrators while locating and connecting

them through their mobile numbers, mobile tower locations, CCTV

footage/Sim mapping/email-IDs and their banking transactions. 7. In the present case as well, admittedly, the amount of

Rs.1,34,328/-, defrauded by the petitioner from the account of the

complainant was directly transferred to the account of Blue Stone Jewellers,

Faridabad against purchase of a gold chain, which was received by the

petitioner as recorded in the CCTV footage of the relevant date and time as

made available to the investigating team. Furthermore, out of the three

mobile numbers, which were used in the transactions of duping the

complainant, two mobile numbers were found to be obtained by the

petitioner against the documents of third party individuals by misusing those

besides even having provided his fake address to the Blue Stone Jewellers,

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-04-2024 23:15:20 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:055473

CRM-M-18219-2024 --4-- Faridabad at the time of purchasing/receiving the gold chain which reflects

the dishonest intent and prima facie connects the petitioner with the offence

in hand. Mere fact that one of the co-accused, namely, Gaurav Chauhan has

reimbursed the defrauded amount and has been granted the concession of

regular bail, no where entitles the petitioner for grant of discretionary relief

of anticipatory bail in the given facts and circumstances. Reference in this

regard can also be made to a decision rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court

in case of " Srikant Upadhyay & others vs. State of Bihar and another " 8. Moreover, such kind of online frauds through cyber crime are

increasing day-by-day wherein innocent individuals are being deceived in

order to extract undue financial gains which are potentially affecting their

financial, economical and social stability. These incidents are even

diminishing the general public trust in the online/digital banking transactions

and may lead to uncalled for hesitation to engage in e-commerce or digital

 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 29-04-2024 23:15:20 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:055473

CRM-M-18219-2024 --5-- services, thereby, creating doubt upon the entire banking system and its

efficacy, resulting into huge economical loss to the Nation at large.

Moreover, such kind of fraud through economic transactions is definitely

going to result in long term economical as well as emotional distress to the

victims and may also encourage the dishonest intents of such perpetrators. In

such circumstances, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is essential

in the interest of public at large so as to unearth the modus operandi adopted

by him in online fraud/cyber crime which definitely and essentially resulted

in breach of privacy of the complainant. 9. Resultantly, the present petition is thus, dismissed being devoid of

merits.