The plaintiffs in O.S. No.2312/2017 on the file of the

18th Addl. City Civil Judge, Bengaluru (for short 'the Civil

Court') are in appeal impugning the Order dated 29.06.2018

passed by the Civil Court rejecting the appellants-plaintiffs'

applications under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of

Civil Procedure (for short, ' CPC '). 2. The appellants and the respondents are referred to

as arrayed before the Civil Court for convenience. 3. In this suit in O.S. No.2312/2017, the plaintiffs

have filed three applications under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and

2 of CPC . The first of the applications viz., I.A. No.1 is filed

seeking temporary injunction for restraining the defendants, 4 and persons claiming under them, from utilizing or disclosing

the confidential information as described in such application.

The second application viz., I.A. No.2 is filed seeking

temporary injunction restraining the defendants, and the

persons claiming under them, from soliciting or inducing or

encouraging the plaintiffs' employees from quitting

employment with the plaintiffs and joining the defendant

No.4. The third application viz., I.A. No.3 is filed for

injunction restraining the defendants, either jointly or

severally, and every person claiming under them, from

transacting with the plaintiffs' clients and customers or

plaintiffs' potential clients or customers. The suit is for

similar permanent injunctive relief/s. 4. The plaintiffs' case is that the plaintiff No.1, a

private limited company incorporated under the provisions of

the Companies Act, 1956 , is a wholly owned subsidiary of

plaintiff No.2, a company incorporated under the law of the 5 United States of America. The defendants No. 1 to 3 are the

plaintiffs' erstwhile employees. The defendant No.1 joined

service with plaintiff No.1 on 05.04.2012 as a Manager, but

later joined plaintiff No.2 as an Engagement Manager on

26.04.2013 and was stationed in the United States of

America. However, while he was working as Senior

Engagement Manager, he tendered his resignation with effect

from 13.01.2017. The defendant No.2 joined service with

plaintiff No.1 as Senior Manager on 09.06.2008, and he

continued in employment until he tendered his resignation on

05.03.2013. The defendant No.3 joined service with plaintiff

No.2 as a Senior Director - Sales on 01.03.2010, and he

continued in service until his resignation on 05.02.2011. The

defendant Nos. 2 and 3, after ceasing to work with the

plaintiffs, incorporated defendant No.4, a company under the Companies Act, 1956 . The defendants, acting in violation of

the terms of contract, solicited 6 (i) the plaintiffs' employees to quit employment and joint
 defendant No.4 as employees between the years 2012-
 13 and 2015-16, (ii) business from the plaintiffs' clientele and customers
 employing plaintiffs' Proprietary Information viz., highly
 specialized skills of data mining and data analysis in
 the areas of retail, marketing, supply chain and risk
 analysis. 5. The plaintiffs have been able to innovate and

develop analytical tools, assets and methods, which are used

to provide cutting-edge, unique and specialized services. The

plaintiffs are path breakers in the analytics industry because

they could evolve a sustainable Global Model integrating

disciplines of business, mathematics and technology. The

plaintiffs, because they are able to offer cutting-edge, unique

and specialized services, have an enviable clientele

comprising of more than 50 of 'Fortune 500 Companies'. It

would not be possible for a new entrant into the analytics

industry to offer similar kind of cutting-edge, unique and 7 specialized services without employing the analytical assets,

tools and methods innovated and developed by the plaintiffs.

The plaintiffs have expanded large investments of money and

resources in creating, innovating and developing the

necessary analytical assets, tools and methods. Therefore,

these analytical assets, tools and methods constitute not just

the plaintiffs' Proprietary Information, but also their

confidential properties. Therefore, appropriate proprietary

information, non-solicitation and non-competition clauses are

included in the contract of employment concluded with every

employee, and similar Contract of Employment are concluded

with defendant Nos.1 to 3. The plaintiffs' emphasis on Clause

1.2 (Proprietary Information), Clause 4 (Non-solicitation and

non-competition) contained in Annexure 'A', which according

to the plaintiffs, is annexed to every Contract of Employment.

The plaintiffs also rely upon Employee Proprietary Information

and Inventions Agreement executed by the defendant No.1 in

compliance with the plaintiffs' internal policies. It is also 8 contended that the defendant Nos.2 and 3 have executed

similar documents, and therefore, they are also bound by

these covenants. 6. The plaintiffs allege that the defendant No.1, while

in employment with the plaintiffs, and in complete violation of

the terms of the aforesaid Proprietary Information and

Information Agreement and the other terms of employment,

divulged commercially sensitive confidential information to

the defendant No.2 and 3, who incorporated the defendant

No.4. The defendant No.1 had access to such information

because of his employment with the plaintiffs, and this

sensitive and Confidential Information, also being plaintiffs'

proprietary information, is not available in the public domain

or circulation or publication for release. The plaintiffs have

reliably learnt that the other defendants, because defendant

No.1 was divulging sensitive and Proprietary Information, were

able to contact the plaintiffs' customers and solicit business. 9 7. The plaintiffs assert that this alleged misfeasance

is established by the fact that the defendant No.4 represented

by defendant No.1, who joined defendant No.4 after quitting

employment with plaintiffs, started interacting with M/s.

General Motors, a renowned multi-national company and bid

for its projects. The plaintiffs assert that because the

defendants were acting in cohorts, and in violation of the

terms of employment which include Non-Solicitation and Non-

Competition Clauses, they enticed senior executives to quit

employment with the plaintiffs because they wanted to access

the plaintiffs' Proprietary Information. The defendants have

been able to entice and hire the plaintiffs' former highly

trained employees who were working as Decision Scientists,

Senior Business Analysts, Associate Manager and Apprentice

Leaders. The defendants have also posted on the website of

defendant No.4 that some of the plaintiffs' former employees

are now key employees with the defendant No.4. 10 8. The plaintiffs contend that if the defendants

continue to use the plaintiffs' Proprietary Information, entice

the plaintiffs' former employees and/or solicit business from

its exclusive client base, the plaintiffs would be put to severe

business loss and the plaintiffs would also suffer loss of

reputation and business tactics. The plaintiffs have created,

innovated and developed highly sophisticated analytical

assets, tools and methods. The plaintiffs have been able to

create a niche amongst the very exclusive because of such

innovation and development over a period of time. Therefore,

the plaintiffs have prima facie case and balance of

convenience in their favour, and the plaintiffs would also be

put to irreparable loss if the interim applications are not

considered favorably. 9. The defendants contest the plaintiffs' suit, but

without disputing that the defendant Nos.2 and 3, who are

erstwhile employees of the plaintiffs, have incorporated 11 defendant No.4, and the defendant No.1 has joined them later

as a Director. The defendants also do not dispute that they

are engaged in similar business line as the plaintiffs.

However, the defendants specifically contend that they have

not in any manner utilized or used the plaintiffs' Proprietary

or Confidential Information. The defendants have solicited

neither the former employees nor customers of the plaintiffs.

The allegations of solicitation of clients and employers, as

every other allegation, are unjustified and unsubstantiated.

The defendants are carrying on the business on their own

strength without affecting the plaintiffs' rights whatsoever.

The former employees of the plaintiffs, for their own reasons

and on their own accord, have offered to work with the

defendant No.4, and accordingly they have been employed

with defendant No.4. 10. Insofar as the terms of employment as alleged by

the plaintiffs, and holding the defendants to such terms, the 12 defendants contend that the defendant Nos.2 and 3 have not

executed any agreement either as Employee Proprietary

Information and Inventions Agreement or otherwise. They

contend that even otherwise, the terms relied upon by the

plaintiffs tantamount to restraining the defendants from

exercising lawful profession, trade and business. Therefore,

the terms relied upon by the plaintiffs are hit by Section 27 of

the Indian Contract Act, 1872. As such, the Non-Solicitation

and Non-Competition Clauses in Annexure 'A' that is annexed

to the Contract of Employment, and executed by the defendant

No.1, cannot be enforced. 11. The Civil Court has dismissed the plaintiffs'

applications for manifold reasons. The Civil Court has held

that though the plaintiffs have sought for temporary

injunction on the premise that the defendants are using the

plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests and that the plaintiffs have not

described such Proprietary Interests. The Civil Court has also 13 further held that the plaintiffs have not produced any

material to indicate how the defendants have used the

plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests in soliciting plaintiffs'

customers. Next, the Civil Court has concluded that the

question whether the employees mentioned in the plaint have

joined the defendant No.4 on their own or because they were

enticed by the defendants, is a question that could only be

decided after the necessary trial. Similarly, the question

whether the defendants have solicited any business from the

plaintiffs' clientele will also have to be decided after a trial.

Further, the Civil Court has held that the plaintiffs have failed

to establish, which of the plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests have

been violated by the defendants, and at the threshold stage

there cannot be any assumption that the defendants could

have misused plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests. The plaintiffs, in

the least, should have produced some communication

between their customers/clientele and the defendants to

prima facie establish that the defendants were soliciting 14 business. Furthermore, the Civil Court has held that as

regards defendant Nos.2 and 3, there is a serious dispute

whether they have indeed signed and accepted the terms as

regards Non-solicitation and Confidentiality. 12. The Civil Court, as regards the legal contention

that the defendants are bound by the 'Negative Covenants'

from using plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests and soliciting

business, has concluded that it is settled law that a Negative

Covenant insofar as it operates beyond the term of

employment would be hit by the provisions of Section 27 of

the Indian Contracts Act. The Civil Court has referred to the

different decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the

parties,. But importantly, the plaintiffs, at the present stage

of the proceedings, have not placed materials to substantiate

the cause that the defendant No.4 is either acquiring the

plaintiffs' business or soliciting the plaintiffs' employees or

using the plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests. There is uncertainty 15 about the plaintiffs' case, and when there is uncertainty or

doubt in the court's mind about the veracity or the credibility

of the applicants' case, the courts cannot grant the relief of

temporary injunction. 13. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs, arguing in

support of the appeal, canvassed the following submissions: Solicitation and Confidentiality. The Civil Court has

failed to consider that the defendants were taking

undue advantage of a bona fide error in filing a wrong

copy of the agreement. The plaintiffs have filed an

application under Order VII Rule 14 (3) of CPC seeking

permission to produce the original contract of

employment signed by defendant No.2. The documents

relied upon by the plaintiffs not only establish that the

defendant Nos.1, 2 and 3 were employed with the

plaintiffs, but they are also under an obligation, as per

the terms of employment, not to either solicit the 17 plaintiffs' clientele or use the plaintiffs' proprietary

 interests. (iii) The Civil Court ought to have examined whether

 the plaintiffs have made out a prima facie case from the

 material relied upon by them. But, the Civil Court

 without undertaking such exercise has concluded that a

 full trial would be required to determine whether the

 defendants have either solicited business from the

 plaintiffs' clientele or enticed the plaintiffs' former

 employees. 14. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs relied upon

the following decisions elaborating on the first submission

that the restriction under Section 27 of the Indian Contracts

Act cannot be applied in the present case reiterating that the

plaintiffs' applications are not to restrict the defendant Nos.1

to 3 from seeking employment elsewhere or with any person 18 of their choice, but to protect the plaintiffs' Confidential

Information/Proprietary Rights/Intellectual Property: Reported in (2006) 131 DLT 681: 15. The learned counsel for the plaintiffs emphasized

that the High Court in this case had granted injunctive relief

even where it was apprehended that trade secrets could be

divulged or put to use to compete with the former employer. 16. The learned senior counsel for the defendants on

the other hand argued that the Civil Court had rightly

rejected the plaintiffs' application for the different injunctive

relief/s. The learned senior counsel contended that the

injunctive prayer is very vague and unsubstantiated. Though

the cause of action is based on the assertion that the

defendants have utilised the plaintiffs' confidential

information, specific strategies, trade secrets, these interests

have not been sufficiently elucidated to justify an order of 24 injunction. The plaintiffs cannot sustain a cause of action,

much less a cause of action for an interim injunctive relief, on

vague assertions that the plaintiffs have evolved unique and

proprietary analytics, and a new entrant into the analytics

industry cannot even have access to such evolved, unique and

proprietary analytics. The plaintiffs are in the habit of filing

suits against former employees who decide to quit

employment with the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs choose to

file these suits because the plaintiffs want to curb

competition. 17. The learned senior counsel was vociferous in

arguing that though the plaintiffs contend that the

defendants have used the plaintiffs' Proprietary Interests, the

plaintiffs have not placed any material to substantiate such

assertion. The plaintiffs want the court to injunct the

defendant No. 4 from conducting its business on the ground

that the defendant No.4 is utilising the plaintiffs' Proprietary 25 Information and that this fact is borne out by the defendant

No.4 pitching for a project M/s. General Motors, a multi-

national company. However, the defendant No.4 neither as of

the date of the suit, nor later has had any business

association with M/s. General Motors. Similarly, the

plaintiffs contend that the defendants are soliciting the

employees of the plaintiffs and the same is borne out by the

list of employees who have quit employment with the

plaintiffs and joined the defendant No.4. But, mere fact that

certain employees have chosen, of their own volition, to join

the defendant No.4 cannot lead to any presumption that there

is any solicitation. The plaintiffs' assertions in these regards

are entirely unjustified. 18. The learned senior counsel contended that the

plaintiffs cannot seek enforcement of Negative Covenants

allegedly executed by the defendant No.1, because of the 26 provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Contracts Act. The

learned senior counsel relied upon the following decisions

 • Navigator's Logistics Limited vs. Kashif Qureshi and
 others , and Pepsi Foods Ltd. and Others vs. Bharat
 Coca-Cola Holdings Private Limited and Others by the
 Delhi High Court,

 • Polaris Software Lab Limited vs. Suren Khiwadkar,
 and another by the High Court of Madras in

These decisions are relied upon to emphasize that every

information that is shared with an employer cannot qualify as

either trade secret or confidential information. The information

which is known to others in the industry, whether a formulae

or a technical know-how or a peculiar method or mode of

business, cannot be called confidential information/trade

secrets. If an employee, in the course of his employment, has

acquired some business acumen, or ways of dealing with

clients or customers, the same cannot constitute trade secret

or confidential information. An employer cannot, in the garb of

protecting Confidential Information or Proprietary Interest, 27 perpetuate the thought that once a customer of the employer

always a customer of the employer. Further, creating a

database of the clients/customers and then claiming

confidentiality would tantamount to creating a monopoly, and

injunction orders cannot be granted to perpetuate monopoly. 19. The learned senior counsel was emphatic that

even according to the plaintiffs the defendant Nos.2 and 3

quit employment with the plaintiffs many years back. It is

settled that while Negative Covenants can be only enforced

during the term of the employment and such covenants

cannot be enforced beyond the period of service. Even where

Negative Covenants are enforced it is only in those cases

where breach of the trade secrets is established or the

restriction against competition is confined to a period of two

years from the date of cessation of employment. However,

these factors are not established and the plaintiffs, in seeking

the different injunctive relief/s, are trying to create a 28 monopoly asserting confidential information/proprietary

interests over analytical tools that are commonly available in

the industry, and without explaining the proprietary rights.

Further, the Negative Covenant as regards Non-solicitation

and Non-compete cannot be enforced as against the

defendant Nos.1 or 2 or 3, or against the defendant No.4 with

whom there is no contract. 20. The questions that arise for consideration in the

present appeal are: 21. Generally, a Negative Covenant is made part of

employment contract as a restriction against an employee

from either competing against the employer or joining a

competitor with the purpose of protecting the employer's

trade secrets or other proprietary materials. A conspectus of

the aforesaid decisions, material for the purposes of this case,

would be that a Negative Covenant limiting the rights of an

employee to either compete or solicit, whether the former

employer's customers/clients or co-employers, is enforced

against the employee for the term of employment vigorously.

However, the very Negative Covenant after the employee

ceases to be in employment is not enforced because of the

provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 30 22. The Trade Secrets, which could include formulae

or technical know-how or method, or mode, of doing

business, would constitute that confidential information

which is a proprietary material, in sensu stricto a property of

an employer. Therefore, a Negative Covenant that restricts the

employee from divulging or sharing or using such trade

secrets is enforced and an employee injuncted even after the

term of employment from either divulging or sharing or

misusing the trade secrets. This would be because no person

can be permitted to take advantage of the fruits of the efforts

of - the property of, another person. 23. The other kinds of Confidential Information viz.,

client base, client information and other data, which could be

a compilation in a particular method and for a particular

purpose, distinct from Trade Secrets, would be a different

category. This kind of Confidential Information is protected

and injunction granted against an employee even after the 31 tenure of employment4, from soliciting clients/ customers.

But, the employer must demonstrate/establish that such

Confidential Information was shared with the confidence that

the employee would use such Confidential Information only

for the benefit of the employer and maintain strict fidelity in

using such Confidential Information. This employer's

confidence and employee's fidelity could be either expressed

or implied. Further, provided that such Confidential

Information is not already within the knowledge or access of

another. Furthermore, impressed with this proposition is the

proposition that an employee, in the course of his

employment, is bound to acquire certain acumen or

competence, but this employee cannot be injuncted from

utilising such acumen or competence acquired in the course

of his employment with his former employer. Importantly,

even in those cases where injunctions could be granted 4 If restricted to a particular area or a reasonable time 32 against an employee from competing with his former employer

or seeking employment with a competitor, it should be

confined to only those cases where the covenant is to restrict

the employee to a particular area or a reasonable period5. 24. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has held in Superintendence Company of India vs. Krishna Murgai6 , while

discussing the objective behind Section 27 of the Indian

Contracts Act, 1872, that the distinction in the enforcement

of a Negative Covenant between an employer-employee and a

seller-purchaser rests upon a substantial basis. The Negative

Covenant between the employer - employee, because it

pertains to performance of personal service - altogether

different in substance from purchase, will have vastly

different social and economic implications. The courts,

therefore, would view with disfavour a restrictive covenant by 5 Polaris Software Lab. Limited Case - (2003)57 6 AIR 1980 SC 1717 33 an employee not to engage in a business similar with that of

the employer after the termination of his contract of

employment. Therefore, a Negative Covenant as regards

Trade Secrets (an obvious Proprietary and Confidential

Information) is dealt with differently by Courts from a Negative

Covenant as regards other Confidential Information. In the

latter category there is a higher onus on an employer.

Therefore, an employer must establish that the covenant (i)

operates for a restricted period and areas, (ii) pertains to

information that is exclusive, nuanced and shared with the

confidence that the employee shall use such information only

for the benefit of the employer and maintain fidelity, and (iii)

the restraint will not tantamount to restraining the employee

from using his own acumen or skill sets. As such, a Negative

Covenant with an employee should be carefully scrutinized. 25. The plaintiffs' case, encapsuled, is that the

defendant Nos.2 and 3 were former employees, and after the 34 cessation of their employment with the plaintiffs, they have

incorporated the defendant No.4, which is also engaged in the

business of analytics. The defendant Nos.2 and 3, who were

employed with the plaintiffs, quit employment during the

years 2013 and 2011 respectively. The defendant No.1, who

was in employment with the plaintiffs between 25th November

2013 and 13th January 2017, acting in cohorts with

defendant Nos.2 and 3, has divulged Confidential Information

(as well as sensitive client list and customer database) to the

defendant Nos.2, 3 and 4. The plaintiffs had disclosed to

defendant No.1 Proprietary Information because of his senior

leadership position with the plaintiffs. The defendant No.1

was privy to key business decisions that were being taken by

the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs offer two circumstances as

indicative of the defendant Nos.1, 2 and 3 using the plaintiffs'

Confidential Information in breach of the Negative Covenant.

The first of such circumstance is the defendant No.4 making

a bid for project with M/s. General Motors asserting that 35 without access to the plaintiffs' evolved and unique analytical

tools, assets and methods, the defendant No.4 could not have

bid for such project. The second of such circumstances is the

list of employees who quit employment with plaintiffs between

June 2014 and November 2016 and joined employment with

the defendant No.4. 26. The plaintiffs have relied upon the contract of

employment signed with the defendant No.1, which also

includes Annexures which contain description what

constitutes 'Proprietary Information' and the covenants as

regards Non-solicitation and Non-competition. Proprietary

information is described as including: - regarding plans for research and development,
 new products, marketing and selling, business 36 plans and budgets and unpublished financial
 statements and the like, and - regarding the skills and compensation of other
 employees of the company. The Non-solicitation clause reads as: 27. It is rather undisputed that defendant Nos.2 and 3

quit employment with the plaintiffs many years prior to the

date of the suit, and the period of 2 years would not apply to

them. However, the cause of action against these defendants

(and the defendant No.1) is based on the assertion that they

have induced/encouraged the defendant No.1, while he was

in employment with the plaintiffs, to divulge Proprietary

Information/sensitive commercial information. It is contended

that this alleged inducement and encouragement is borne out

by the fact that the defendant No.4 has bid for a project with

M/s. General Motors and that many employees have quit

employment with the plaintiff and joined the defendant No.4. 38 28. There is nothing on record, as of now, to show

that the defendant No.4 has some kind of business traction

with M/s. General Motors and that business traction is

because the defendant No.4 is using analytical tools exclusive

to plaintiffs and divulged by the defendant No.1. In fact, the

defendants emphatically assert that the defendant No.4 has

no business with M/s. General Motors. Though some

employees have quit plaintiffs and defendant No.4 and some

material is published on the website about some of those

employees being in key position with defendant No.8, there

cannot be an inference of solicitation only because of these

two circumstances. There is no other material on record from

which solicitation from defendants can be discerned. 29. Further, the details of the "Inventions" or the

"Information" are not furnished though it is asserted that

such "Inventions" and "Information" are developed investing

huge amount and manpower. One of the imperatives for 39 grant of injunction is that the subject mater should be

unambiguously identified, and described. This would be

moreso in a case of this kind. Furthermore, the details of the

breach are furnished. 30. Insofar as the defendant No.1, his cessation of

employment with the plaintiffs is in January 2017, and the

embargo on solicitation extends upto January 2019. As

concluded by the Civil Court, there is no material on record,

as of now, to readily infer the defendant No.1 is culpable of

any solicitation and conclude that the employees mentioned

in the plaint quit employment with the plaintiffs and joined

the defendant No.4 because of the defendant No.1. The grant

of injunction against a person who has quit employment from

using acumen is impermissible as held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. Even otherwise the plaintiff has not placed

any material to conclude at this stage that the defendant No.1

was privy to some exclusive and nuanced information and the 40 defendant No.1 has divulged such information in breach of

confidence and fidelity. 31. As regards the Non-compete clause, the relevant

part reads as follows: 32. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, it cannot

be concluded that the plaintiffs have made out prima facie

case for grant of injunction against the defendants either as

regards plaintiffs' Proprietary Information or solicitation or

competition. The balance of convenience would also not lie in

favour of the plaintiffs inasmuch as injunction cannot be

granted when the applicants-plaintiffs' case is tenuous. If

injunction order is granted as against the defendant Nos.1, 2

and 3, there could be serious existential repercussions on the

employment opportunities of these defendants. An order

refusing injunction could be called either arbitrary or

capricious or perverse, if relevant material or law is ignored.

The Hon'ble Supreme Court in (2006) 5 SCC page 282 has

held that an Appellate Court shall interfere with the

discretion exercised by the Trial Court either in granting 42 injunction or in refusing grant of injunction only when the

original court has acted arbitrarily or capriciously or

perversely8. In the considered opinion of this Court the

impugned order is neither arbitrary not capricious nor

perverse. The questions formulated are answered accordingly. For the foregoing, the appeal is dismissed with the

observation that the Civil Court shall decide the suit on

merits without being influenced by any observation made by

this court in the course of this order or the impugned order

because such observation is only for adjudication of the

interim applications. No costs. SD/- JUDGE

LG 8 (2006) 5 SCC page 282