SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What if ... we do take a referendum in State of Punjab regarding Khalistan?
DATE: 2023-09-23
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16pyw1x/what_if_we_do_take_a_referendum_in_state_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

When I was young and recently read about what is referendum in my Civics textbook I was fasinated by the idea, but now I realize that such referendums is possible only in countries where voters are well educated. Here votes can be bought by 1 plate biryani and one bottle of whisky, even the so called educated WhatsApp uncle/aunties believe in fake stories so referendum will never benefit people.

But now I am thinking that since majority of Indian Sikhs believe in India first and do not heed to Khalistan, what if we do take a referendum in Punjab and show to the world that Khalistan demand is done by just few Sikhs living abroad for years entirely disconnected by reality back home.

Though Canada would simply say that referendum was manipulated, it would give a huge advantage to India. Here are few advantages I think India would have.

1. Legitimacy of Referendum: According to Freedom index, India was categorized as Partly free but India performs better in Political rights and performs bad at Civil rights. Here is the link stating India is conducting free and fair elections (at least till now touch wood). [India: Freedom in the World 2022 Country Report | Freedom House](https://freedomhouse.org/country/india/freedom-world/2022#PR). And since Freedom house is US based so west would not have problem in believing their own data. Here is extract from website "Executive elections and selection procedures are generally regarded as free and fair. Executive power is vested in a prime minister, typically the leader of the majority party in the Lok Sabha (House of the People), and a cabinet of ministers nominated by the prime minister. They are appointed by the president and responsible to the Lok Sabha. Narendra Modi was sworn in for a second term as prime minister after the BJP’s victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections."
2. Co-operation of India: India is accused that they are not co-operating, image of India on social media is deteriorating. People think there is huge wave of Punjabi people demanding separate nation and India is turning blind eye. And Khalistan supporters abroad are getting lot of sympathy. Such referendum will prove that India also works for its people.
3. Democracy of India: In Modi regime, world is in doubt that India is no longer a "world's largest democracy". Being democracy has always helped India throughout these years and it is one of the significant upper hand that we have in international politics. If India could somehow prove that though democracy is having some problems right now, India has not gave up on it's core beliefs and people's voice is still being heard.

But still one fear remains that what if results come out against the favor of India. What if they are able to manipulate enough people for demanding separate nation. We know how Godi media brainwashes our citizens what if they too start spreading anti India propaganda. So what you think about this? Is referendum possible and will it benefit India,