J U D G M E N T
HANSARIA.J.
 Edmund Burke stated as early as 1777: "Among a people
generally corrupt, liberty cannot long exist." In 1778, he
observed: "An arbitrary system	 indeed	 must always be a
corrupt one. There never was a man who thought he had no law
but his	 own will, who did not soon find that he had no end
but his own profit." 2.	 According to Francis Beanmount	 (1584-1616)
corruption is a tree, whose branches are of an unmeasurable
length, they spread everywhere, and the dew that drops from
thence, hath infected some chairs and stools of authority. 3. In the Encyclopaedia of Democracy by Seymour Martin
Lipset, Vol.1,	page 310, in the Chapter "Corruption", it is
stated that corruption is an abuse of public resources for
private gain. It is known that bribes open the way	 for
access to the State for those who are willing to pay and can
afford to pay. The situation leaves non-corrupt citizen with
the belief that one counts only if	one has the right
personal contact with those who hold	power and also allow
persons with money power to	get things done to their
advantage through back door. 4. In the present	 case,	as we	are concerned	with
alleged motivated, arbitrary and high-handed actions	of a
Minister, it would be worth-while to point out what role has
been assigned in a parliamentary democracy to a Minister.
The head of the State (President or Governor in our country,
as the	case may be,) calls upon the leader of the political
party that commands majority to form government and appoints
him as	Prime/Chief Minister; and on later's advice appoints
other Ministers. Business of the Government, gets allocated
and is	run as	per business rules framed, which in	 our
Constitution has been dealt by Article 166(3). The executive
power of the Government is distributed department wise and
one Government	 is distributed department wise and	 one
Minister is made the head of that department. That Minister
becomes responsible for the actions, acts and policies of
his department. He becomes principally accountable	 and
answerable to	 the people. His powers and	 duties	 are
regulated by the law of the land. The legal and moral
responsibility or liability for the acts or omissions rest
solely on the Minister. 5. Having noted the philosophy, sociology and etymology
of corruption,	as well	 as the	 essence of a parliamentary
democracy, let	it broadly be seen what had happened in the
present case. For this	 purpose it would be enough to note
some of	 the prima facie conclusions	arrived	 at by	 the
Central Bureau	of Investigation (CBI) who was required by
this Court to inquire into the matter (which has come to be
known as Housing Scam) by order dated 14.2.1996. 6. The CBI has since inquired into the master in some
detail and has by now submitted 4 Interim the CBI, orders of
allotment in respect of the shops/stalls in question were
passed by Smt. Shiela	Kaul, the then	 Minister of Urban
Development, and "all the 6 shops have been allotted by her
to her	 own relation/employees/domestic servants of	 her
family members	and family friends. She has allotted 2 shops
to her	2 grandsons, one shop to the maidservant of her son,
Sh. Vikram Kaul who is residing in Dubai, one ship to
handloom manager of the firm owned by her son-in-law and
another shop to a close friend. One shop has been allotted
to the	nephew of the Minister	 of State, Sh. P.K. Thungon.
While making allotments in respect of stalls, she	 has
allotted most of stalls to the relations/friends of	 her
personal staff	and officials of Dte.	of Estates." The CBI
has also reported that Smt.	Shiela	Kaul had made	 ten
different categories of persons as the basis for deciding
allotments, but	 even this categorisation was not adhered to
while making allotments. The further findings are: (1) "Many
other organisations/persons who had	 also	applied	 for
allotment of shops/stalls from time	 to time were	 not
considered for	allotment and no reasons, whatsoever, were
assigned for non-allotment of shops/stalls to them"; and (2)
"At the time of discretionary allotments made by Smt. Shiela
Kaul in	 1992 and 1994 persons	 who were relations of	 her
personal staff were considered and allotted shops." 7. In the order dated 19.7.1996 this Court noted that a
regular case under sections 120/B, 420,468/471 IPC and section 13(2) read with 13(1) (d) of	 the Prevention of
Corruption Act,	 1988 ,	has been registered against	Smt.
Shiela	 Kaul and her	 Addl.	 Private Secretary Rajan S.
Lala and others. The order	of that date has also noted
about various other steps taken, which include inssuance of
show	cause why allotments of shops/stalls should not be
cancelled. It was desired that the notices be served within
a week	and the	 Estate Officer, after considering their
replies, if any, place a report before the Court within four
weeks. 8. Such a report was filed under the affidavit of Shri
Harcharan Jeet	Singh, Director	 of Estates, which was taken
up for	consideration on 16.9.1996. The affidavit of	 the
Director has stated that from 1994 onwards 52 shops/stalls
had been sanctioned by the then	 Minister of Urban
Development (Smt. Shiela Kaul) out of which 7 shops were
allotted by Smt. Kaul before she had approved policy of 1994
and the remaining 45 shops were allotted after the policy of
1994. In the affidavit	 the gist of the objections filed by
the various allottees was enclosed. This Court thought it
appropriate to	give an	 opportunity of hearing to all these
persons before	any action was taken. A direction	was,
therefore, given to the Director to issue individual notices
to the	52 persons (wrongly mentioned as 42 in the order) to
be personally present in the	Court	 or be	 represented
through their counsel on 27th September. These alottees so
appeared either	 in person or through counsel and they were
heard.. The sum and substance of the representations of the
allottees was that they had been given an allotment either
because of their being unemployed youths, freedom fighters,
handicapped, members of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes,
widow or poverty-stricken. 9. Question is whether they were selected in accordance
with law, which aspect as its importance because apparently
a large	 number of other persons could as well fall within
the categories	in question and had applied also? From the
report of the CBI it is clear that the alottees had been
selected, not by following the tender system, as required by
the policy of 1994, but because of their relationship with
the Minister or her personal staff, or being employees or
friends of such persons. If that be so, the allotments were
wholly arbitrary and speak of misuse of power. All important
question is what is required to be done to undo the wrong
and how	 the wrong doer is to be dealt with	 within	 the
parameters known to law. 10. It would be apposite in this contact to refer to
the recent decision of this Court in Writ Petition (C) No.
26 of 1995 (Common Cause, a Registered Society v. Union of
India ) rendered	 on September 25, 1996, in which one of us
(Kuldip Singh,J.) reiterated the need to act	 fairly	 and
justly in the matter of grant	 of largesses,	pointing out
that any arbitrary distribution of national wealth would
violate the law of the land. Mention	 was	made of	 the
judgment in Lucknow Development Authority v.	N.K. Gupta ,
1994(1)	 SCC 243,	stating	 that	 the same approved
"misfeasance in	 public	 office" as a part of the law of the
tort. It was pointed out that public servants become liable
in damages for malicious, deliberate or injurious wrong-
doing. 11. A reference	to Wade's 'Administrative Law' shows
that a breach of statutory duty does give rise in public law
to liability, which has come to be known as "misfeasance in
public office", and which includes malicious abuse of power.
This aspect has been dealt at	 pages	789 et	 al of	 7th
Edition. It has been stated that public authorities or
officers may be liable in damages for malicious, deliberate
or injurious wrong-doing. The Supreme Court of Canada in Ron
Carelli v. Duplejis (1959) 16 DLR (2d) 689 awarded damages
against	 the Prime Minister	 of Quebec personally	 for
directing the cancellation of	a restaraunt-owner's liquor
licence. The Supreme Court of Victoria in Farrington v.
Thomson, 1959 VR 280,	awarded damages	 against a licensing
inspector and a police officer who had	ordered	 the
plaintiff to close his	 hotel and cease supplying liquor,
though they knew they did not posses such a power. Smith J.
referred in that case	to the	statement of Best CT made in
Henly v. Lyme Corpn.,	(1858) 5 Bing 91 at 107 reading as
below:- 12. The learned author has then opined that	 the
cases	establish that	 the tort of misfeasance in public
offices goes at least to the length of imposing liability on
public officer	who does an act which to his knowledge
amounts to an abuse of his office. 13. We may also note what has been stated in	this
regard in "Cases and Materials on Administrative Law" by SH
Bailey and others at pages 826 et al	 of 2nd Edition. The
authors have noted the	 decision rendered in	Bourgoin SA
v.Minister of Agriculture, Fishery and Food, 1985-3 All ER
585, on	 the subject of misfeasance. In that	case damages
were claimed against a Minister, which was held permissible.
Lord Diplock's observation in Dunlop v. Woolllahar Municipal
Council, 1982 AC 158,	that this was	 "well	established" 14. From the aforesaid it is clear that the above has
been accepted as a part of the law of tort practically all
over the world. What is more,	 in some countries exemplary
damages have been awarded for misuse of public power.
Reference may be made to Deshpriya and another v. Municipal
Council, Nuwara	 Eliva & Others. which	 a decision of	 the
Supreme Court of Sri Lanka dated 10.3.1995, noted at pages
115 to	117 of	1996(1) Commonwealth Human Rights Law Digest
(CHRD).	 Therein, aggravated	award	was ordered where
political discrimination was the motive for	 restricting
freedom of expression. The Supreme court of Bahamas in the
case of	 Tynes v. Barr, by a decision rendered on 28.3.1994,
ordered for exemplary damages	for arbitrary, oppressive or
unconstitutional action	 by State Officials. A	 summary of
this decision is reported at	pages 117 to	120 of	 the
aforesaid Law	Digest.	 The need for	 awarding exemplary
damages was felt by Sauyer, J. because of the arrogant,
abusive and outrageous disregard shown by the police for the
law. The learned Judge awarded $40,505 as special damages; $
75,000	for assault, battery	and false imprisonment; $
1,00,000 for malicious prosecution and $ 40,000 for breach
of the plaintiff's constitutional rights. Reference may also
be made	 to the	 decision of supreme Court of	 Jamaica in
Samulls v. Attorney General (noted at	 pages 120 to 122 of
the aforesaid Digest) in which Reckford, J. by his decision
dated 11.11.1994 awarded exemplary damages for assault,
battery and malicious prosecution. The award was quantified
at $ 1,00,000. 15. The	world jurisprudence has thus accepted
misfeasance in	public	office	as a species	of tortious
liability and,	to prevent misuse, different courts across
the sea have been awarding exemplary damages. 16. We are conscious that the aforesaid cases dealt
with injury to a third party (following misuse of power) who
had sought damages for	 the loss caused, whereas in	 the
present case there is no injury as such to any third person.
Even so, the aforesaid	 cases have been referred for	 two
purposes. Firstly and primarily to bring home the position
in law	that misuse of power	 by a	public	official is
actionable in tort. Secondly,	to state that in such cases
damages awarded	 are exemplary.	 The fact that there is no
injury to a third person in the present case is not enough
to make	 the aforesaid principles non-applicable inasmuch as
there was injury to the high principle inasmuch as there was
injury to the high principle in public law that a public
functionary has	 to use	 its power for bonafide purpose only
and in	a transparent manner. Insofar as the aspect of loss
is concerned, it deserves to be pointed out that there was
loss in	 present case also; and this	 was to the State
Exchequer resultant upon giving of	 allotments without
calling tender	as required by the policy. Needless to say
that if	 tender would have been called, higher revenue would
have been earned by the State on giving the allotments. For
these reasons,	we are	of the view that the mere fact	that
in the present case there is no injury to a third person and
he has not come forward to claim damages, has no sequitur in
so far	as the	tortious liability following misfeasance of
public office is concerned. 17. Now, to take	care of	 the illegality, we have to
take two steps. First,	 cancel the allotments. To decide as
to who	should get the shops/stalls, the Government would
first consider whether its policy of 1994 and categorisation
made by	 it need alteration in	 any way. While undertaking
this work, the Government would make such provisions in the
policy which are just	and fair. After the policy has been
framed, the shops/stalls would be allotted as per the policy
and by	following a procedure having the sanction of law. In
case it would be that any of the present allottees would not
be the	person so selected, he/she shall be asked to vacate
the shop/shall by giving three months time. We would require
the Government to formulate the policy within two months and
thereafter to complete the exercise of allotment within two
months. Till then, the present allottees would be allowed to
continue. 18. Secondly, Smt. Shiela	 Kaul, who was prima facie
personally responsible for the illegal allotments, has to be
asked to show cause as to why damage should not be awarded
against her for her alleged misuse of power. So, a notice be
issued to her to how cause why she should not asked to pay
such sum as damages, for each of the illegal allotments made
by her,	 as this Court would deem just and proper. The cause
would be shown within	three weeks of the receipt of this
order. 19. The issue relating	to the	 matter	 of illegal
allotments of the aforesaid 52 shops/stalls, stands disposed
of accordingly.	 It may	 be put up for further orders on 1st
November, 1996. 20. Let a copy of this order be served on Smt. Shiela
Kaul urgently to enable her to act	as ordered in	 the
judgment. Steps	 in this regard shall be taken by	 the
Registry within three days.