Nishant Kumar Singh @ Nischit Kumar Singh @ Nishit Kumar
 Singh, aged about 52 years, son of Narendra Kumar Singh, resident
 of Riga Road, Janki Asthan, Ward No.1, Chakmahila, P.O.
 Chakmahila, P.S. Chakmahila, District- Sitamarhi (Bihar). 2. Keshar Ali, S/O Abdul Mahan, R/O Kharpose, P.O. & P.S.- Manjhgaon, Chaibasa District- West Singhbhum. 2. This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition has been filed invoking the

 jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure

 with a prayer to quash the order dated 29.01.2016 passed by the Additional

 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa in connection with Manjhgaon P.S. Case

 No.07 of 2014 corresponding to G.R. Case No.95 of 2014 by which the learned

 Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa has taken cognizance against

 the petitioner of the offences punishable under Sections 406 , 420 , 506 of the

 Indian Penal Code and also to quash the entire criminal proceeding in

 connection with the said case. 3. The brief fact of the case is that the co-accused Ramchandra Singh, after

 negotiation with the informant, took stone chips and the machine used for 1 Cr. M.P. No.3648 of 2023 construction of road on hire. He paid some money from time to time to the

complainant in respect of the stone chips taken by him as well as for hiring the

Road construction vehicle. Thereafter, the co-accused Ramchandra Singh

entered into an agreement with the petitioner and the petitioner promised to

pay the remaining amount the informant, in terms of the agreement entered

into by the petitioner and the co-accused Ramchandra Singh; but the petitioner

did not pay the remaining amount due and payable by the co-accused

Ramchandra Singh, who is the informant. On the basis of the written report

submitted by the informant, police registered Manjhgaon P.S. Case No.07 of

2014 and took up investigation of the case. After completion of investigation,

police found the allegation against the petitioner to be true and submitted

charge-sheet and basing upon the same, the learned Additional Chief Judicial

Magistrate, Chaibasa has taken cognizance of the offences inter alia against the

petitioner. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner relies upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Naresh Kumar & Another vs.

State of Karnataka & Another reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 268

paragraph-7 of which reads as under:- 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner next relies upon the judgment of this

court in the case of Raj Kishore Modi & Another vs. State of Jharkhand &

Another reported in 2023 SCC OnLine Jhar 2701 wherein this court relied

upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Sarabjit Kaur vs. State of Punjab & Another reported in (2023) 5 SCC 360,

paragraph-13 of which reads as under:- and also the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case

of Dalip Kaur & Others vs. Jagnar Singh & Another reported in (2009) 14 SCC

696, paragraph-10 of which reads as under:- "6. Xxxx xxxx xxxx It is well settled that every breach of contract
 would not give rise to an offence of cheating and only in those cases
 breach of contract would amount to cheating where there was any
 deception played at the very inception. If the intention to cheat has
 developed later on, the same cannot amount to cheating. In the present
 case it has nowhere been stated that at the very inception there was
 any intention on behalf of the accused persons to cheat which is a
 condition precedent for an offence under Section 420 IPC." (Emphasis
 supplied)

 and submits that even if the entire allegations against the petitioner are

considered to be true in their entirety, still none of the offences for which the

learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa has found prima facie

case is made out. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner next relies upon the judgment of this

Court in the case of Sandeep Bhargava vs. The State of Jharkhand & Another and allied case passed in Cr.M.P. No.3245 of 2021 & allied case wherein this

Court relied upon the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the

case of Binod Kumar & Others vs. State of Bihar & Another , reported in

(2014) 10 SCC 663 paragraph-18 of which reads as under:- 7. It is next submitted that in this case, there is no allegation against the

petitioner that the petitioner played deception from the very inception of the

transactions between the parties. It is also submitted that there is no allegation

against the petitioner that the petitioner, after deceiving the informant, induced

the informant to part with money rather all the transactions of giving the stone

chips and hiring the machine used for construction of road was made between

the informant and the co-accused namely Ramchandra Singh. It is lastly

submitted that the prayer made in this criminal miscellaneous petition be

allowed. 8. Learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the State and the learned

counsel for the opposite party No.2 on the other hand vehemently oppose the

prayer of the petitioner and submit that the allegation made in the F.I.R. is

sufficient to constitute all the offences, in respect of which cognizance has been

taken by the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa; hence, at

this nascent stage, the prayer for quashing the order dated 29.01.2016 passed by

the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa in connection with 5 Cr. M.P. No.3648 of 2023 Manjhgaon P.S. Case No.07 of 2014 corresponding to G.R. Case No.95 of 2014,

ought not be allowed. Hence, it is submitted that this Criminal Miscellaneous

Petition, being without any merit, be dismissed. 9. Having heard the rival submissions made at the Bar and after carefully

going through the materials available in the record, it is pertinent to mention

here that it is a settled principle of law as has been held by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India in the case of Uma Shankar Gopalika vs. State of

Bihar & Another (supra) that every breach of contract would not give rise to an

offence of cheating and only in those cases breach of contract would amount to

cheating; where there was any deception played at the very inception. If the

intention to cheat has developed later on, the same will not amount to cheating. 10. Now coming to the facts of the case, it is admitted case of the informant

that there were business transactions between the informant and the co-accused

namely Ramchandra Singh and the informant was paid money from time to

time by the co-accused namely Ramchandra Singh. So, it cannot be said that the

petitioner has played deception since the beginning of the transactions and in

the absence of the same, certainly, even if the allegations made against the

petitioner are considered to be true in their entirety, still the offence punishable

under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code is not made out against the

petitioner. 11. So far as the offence punishable under Section 406 of the Indian Penal

Code is concerned, the essential ingredient to constitute the said offence is that

there must be entrustment of any property to the accused or the accused person

having dominion over any property. Now coming to the facts of the case, there

is no allegation of any entrustment of any property to the petitioner rather the

entrustment is against the co-accused Ramchandra Singh. There is also no 6 Cr. M.P. No.3648 of 2023 allegation of dishonest misappropriation or conversion to his own use of any

 property by the petitioner. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the

 considered view that even if the entire allegations made against the petitioner

 are considered to be true in their entirety, still the offence punishable under Section 406 of the Indian Penal Code is not made out. 12. So far as the offence punishable under Section 506 of the Indian Penal

 Code is concerned, the same is against the co-accused Ramchandra Singh and

 there is no allegation against the petitioner of threatening the informant in any

 manner. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the considered view that

 even if the entire allegations made against the petitioner are considered to be

 true in their entirety, still the offence punishable under Section 506 of the

 Indian Penal Code is not made out. 13. In view of the discussions made above, this Court is of the considered

 view that the continuation of the criminal proceeding against the petitioner will

 amount to abuse of process of law. Therefore, this is a fit case where the order

 dated 29.01.2016 passed by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa

 in connection with Manjhgaon P.S. Case No.07 of 2014 corresponding to G.R.

 Case No.95 of 2014, be quashed and set aside qua the petitioner only. 14. Accordingly, the order dated 29.01.2016 passed by the Additional Chief

 Judicial Magistrate, Chaibasa in connection with Manjhgaon P.S. Case No.07 of

 2014 corresponding to G.R. Case No.95 of 2014, is quashed and set aside qua the

 petitioner only. 15. In the result, this Criminal Miscellaneous Petition is allowed. (Anil Kumar Choudhary, J.)
High Court of Jharkhand, Ranchi
Dated the 25th of November, 2024
AFR/ Saroj 7 Cr. M.P. No.3648 of 2023