Mr. Mahendra Kumar Gupta
 A-1, Devpriya, Shambhu Nagar,
 Baghpat Road, Meerut - 250002. 2. Mr. Subodh Kumar Goel
 C-2, Devine Park View Apartment,
 Abhay Khand - 3,
 Indirapuram - 201012. ...Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C-4A, G Block, 4 Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E),
Mumbai 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Prakash Shah, Advocate with Mr. Meit Shah, Advocate i/b.
Prakash Shah & Associates for the Appellant.

Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Nishit Dhruva, Mr.
Yash Garach and Ms. Meghna Ashwin i/b. MDP & Partners for the
Respondent. With Appeal No.389 of 2019 Sybly Industries Ltd. Pawan Puri, Muradnagar,
Ghaziabad - 201206. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Prakash Shah, Advocate with Mr. Meit Shah, Advocate i/b.
Prakash Shah & Associates for the Appellant.

Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Nishit Dhruva, Mr.
Yash Garach and Ms. Meghna Ashwin i/b. MDP & Partners for the
Respondent. With Appeal No.390 of 2019 1. Mahesh Chand Mittal
 Laxmi Niwas,
 Opp. Modi Degree College,
 Modinagar - 201204. 2. Mr. Umesh Kumar Mittal
 Laxmi Niwas,
 Opp. Modi Degree College,
 Modinagar - 201204. ...Appellant 5 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051. ...Respondent

Mr. Prakash Shah, Advocate with Mr. Meit Shah, Advocate i/b.
Prakash Shah & Associates for the Appellant.

Mr. Shyam Mehta, Senior Advocate with Mr. Nishit Dhruva, Mr.
Yash Garach and Ms. Meghna Ashwin i/b. MDP & Partners for the
Respondent. CORAM: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Ms. Meera Swarup, Technical Member

Per: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. Eight appeals have been filed against separate

 orders passed by the Whole Time Member ('WTM' for

 short) and Adjudicating Officer ('AO' for short),

 namely, appeal no.387 of 2019 filed by Mr. Mahendra

 Kumar Gupta and Mr. Subodh Kumar Goel, appeal

 no.389 of 2019 filed by the Company Sybly Industries

 Ltd. and appeal no.390 of 2019 filed by Mr. Mahesh

 Chand Mittal and Mr. Umesh Kumar Mittal against a

 common order dated 16th January, 2018 wherein the 6 appellant Company and its Directors have been

 restrained from accessing the securities market for a

 period of five years. 2. Appeal no.381 of 2019 has been filed by Sybly

 Industries Ltd. against the order of the AO dated 15th

 March, 2019. Appeal no.382 of 2019 has been filed by

 Mr. Umesh Kumar Mittal against the order of the AO

 dated 26th March, 2019, appeal no.384 of 2019 has

 been filed by Mr. Mahendra Kumar Gupta against the

 order of the AO dated 27th March, 2019. Appeal

 no.385 of 2019 has been filed by Mr. Mahesh Chand

 Mittal against the order of the AO dated 25th March,

 2019 and appeal no.386 of 2019 has been filed by Mr.

 Subodh Kumar Goel against the order dated 27th

 March, 2019 wherein the AO has imposed penalties

 ranging from Rs.10 lakhs to Rs.10.30 crores. 3. Since the facts and the issues are common in all the

 appeals, the same are being decided together. For

 facility, the facts stated in appeal no.381 of 2019 is

 being taken into consideration. 4. The facts leading to the filing of the present

 appeal is, that the Board of Directors of the Company

 known as Sybly Industries Ltd. passed a resolution

 dated 31st March, 2008. The said resolution is

 extracted hereunder: 5. The resolution approved by the Board of Directors

 resolved that a bank account would be opened with

 European American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter

 referred to as 'EURAM Bank') for the purpose of

 receiving the subscription money in respect of GDR

 issue. Further, Mr. Mahesh Chand, Managing Director

 and Mr. Umesh Kumar Mittal, Director of the

 Company were authorised to sign and execute

 agreement as may be required by the Bank and take

 such steps from time to time on behalf of the

 Company. The resolution further resolved to use the

 funds deposited in the aforesaid Bank account as

 security in connection with the loan, if any as well as

 to enter into any escrow account or similar

 arrangement if and when so required. 6. Based on the aforesaid resolution, the Company

 issued 1.5 million GDRs for USD 6.99 million

 equivalent to Rs.3,02,05,000 equity shares of Rs.1 each

 dated 9th June, 2008. The aforesaid GDR was

 subscribed by one entity, namely, Vintage FZE 9 (hereinafter referred to as 'Vintage') and a corporate

 announcement was made by the Company that the

 entire issue was subscribed. 7. Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter

 referred to as 'SEBI') conducted an investigation

 pertaining to the issue of GDR by the Company.

 Based on the investigation, a show cause notice dated

 2nd July, 2018 was issued to the Company and its

 Directors to show cause as to why suitable directions

 under Section 11 and 11B should not be issued for

 violation of Section 12A(a), (b), (c) of Securities and

 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter

 referred to as ' SEBI Act ') read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d) and 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k), (r) of the Securities

 and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of

 Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to

 Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter

 referred to as 'PFUTP Regulations'), Section 21 of the

 Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 10 (hereinafter referred to as the 'SCRA Act') read with

 Clauses 32, 36(7) and 50 of the Listing Agreement. 8. The show cause notice alleged that pursuant to the

 resolution dated 31st March, 2008 not only a bank

 account was opened with EURAM Bank but the

 Managing Director executed a pledge agreement dated

 30th May, 2008 on behalf of the Company based on

 which a loan agreement dated 30th May, 2008 was

 executed between Vintage and EURAM Bank in which

 the proceeds of the GDR was to be kept as security

 with EURAM Bank. The show cause notice further

 alleged that the pledge agreement and the loan

 agreement was not disclosed to the stock exchange

 platform and, consequently, the investors and

 shareholders were kept in the dark. The show cause

 notice further alleged that based on the pledge

 agreement and the loan agreement EURAM Bank

 advanced USD 6.99 million to Vintage which amount

 was utilised by Vintage to subscribe to the entire issue.

 The GDR proceeds were pledged as security till such 11 time the loan was repaid by Vintage. It was also

 alleged that the fact that Vintage was the sole

 subscriber was not intimated to the stock exchange and

 to the Indian investors and, accordingly, the Company

 and its Directors were charged with violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4

 of the PFUTP Regulations. 9. The WTM and the AO after considering the

 evidence on record found that the entire scheme of

 using the GDR proceeds to fund a subscriber to the

 GDR issue was a fraudulent scheme and violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4

 of the PFUTP Regulations. The authorities found that

 the GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely,

 Vintage and not by three entities as disclosed by the

 Company vide its letter dated 22nd December, 2016.

 The authority further found that on account of the

 pledge created by the Company with EURAM Bank

 the funds were not made available at the Company's

 disposal and the same became available in tranches as 12 and when the loan amount was repaid by Vintage.

 Further, the loan agreement was not disclosed to the

 stock exchange and to the Indian investors. Further,

 the disclosure made by the Company to the stock

 exchange that the GDR issue was fully subscribed was

 misleading as the investors were not informed that the

 GDR was subscribed by only one entity and, therefore,

 the scheme hatched by the Company and its Directors

 was violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and

 Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 10. The authority found that the non-disclosure of the

 loan agreement and the pledge agreement was violative

 of Clause 36 of the Listing Agreement as well as

 Section 21 of the SCRA Act read with Clause 32 and

 50 of the Listing Agreement since the Company has

 not complied with the accounting standards and since

 the balance lying in the EURAM Bank was not free

 cash. The authorities, however, found that Vintage

 repaid the loan amount over a period of time in

 instalments and that based on a Chartered 13 Accountant's certificate the entire GDR proceeds

 alongwith interest accrued thereon amounting to USD

 7.48 million was transferred to the subsidiary of the

 appellant Company. 11. We have heard Mr. Nihar Mody, Advocate

 assisted by Mr. Prakash Shah and Mr. Meit Shah,

 Advocates for the appellant and Mr. Shyam Mehta,

 Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Nishit Dhruva, Mr.

 Yash Garach and Ms. Meghna Ashwin, Advocates for

 the respondent. 12. The contention of the appellant is, that they had

 no knowledge of the pledge agreement or the loan

 agreement and that they came to know for the first time

 when SEBI informed the appellant about it. It was

 alleged that during the process of issuance of GDR the

 appellant had signed numerous documents as advised

 by the Lead Manager and it was also possible that the

 pledge agreement was also unknowingly signed by the

 Managing Director/Director of the Company. It was

 contended that the appellants have appointed a Lead 14 Manager and had signed the documents as per the

advice of the Lead Manager. It was contended that

when the appellant came to know about the fraud

played upon them by the Lead Manager they chose not

to take action by filing a complaint or FIR since the

Company had received the money and the same was

utilised in accordance with the object of the GDR. It

was urged that the GDR proceeds were utilised in

accordance with the objects of the GDR issue and that

there was no diversion of money nor has the appellant

indulged in any wrong dealings in securities. Further,

there was no complaint from any investor with regard

to the issuance of the GDR nor has the appellant made

any disproportionate gain nor caused any loss to the

shareholders or to the investors. It was, thus, urged

that the appellant, being a small Company, has not

played any fraud upon the market and the violation, if

any, is only confined to the non-disclosure under the

Listing Agreement for which purpose the direction of

debarment by the WTM and the penalty awarded by 15 the AO is wholly excessive, harsh and disproportionate

 to the alleged violations. 13. On the other hand, the respondent supported the

 impugned order and contended that the modus

 operandi is the same as has been dealt with by this

 Tribunal in a large number of matters relating to the

 GDR issue wherein this Tribunal has held that the non-

 disclosure of the loan agreement and the pledge

 agreement was totally fraudulent and violative of the

 Listing Agreement. In our opinion, the contention

 of the appellant cannot be accepted. The signature of

 the Managing Director/Director on the pledge

 agreement has not been disputed before us and it

 cannot be believed that such signatures on such

 important documents were signed without their

 knowledge or in ignorance or in good faith at the

 instance of the Lead Manager. Further, when they

 came to know of the fraud, no steps were taken to

 lodge a complaint or an FIR. Not only this, we find

 that based on the pledge agreement, the GDR proceeds 16 were blocked for a certain period of time and it was not

 possible for the Company and its Directors to contend

 that they were not aware that the GDR proceeds had

 been frozen on account of the pledge agreement. Thus,

 in view of the aforesaid we are of the firm view that

 the appellants were aware of the execution of the

 pledge agreement and had signed with open eyes and

 had knowledge. The appellants consequently cannot

 deny the existence of the loan agreement executed

 between Vintage and EURAM Bank. 14. The appellants also misled SEBI into believing

 that there were three subscribers to the issue.

 Investigation found that there was only one subscriber.

 Explanation given by the Company and its Directors

 that the Lead Manager had supplied the information

 which were forwarded to SEBI in good faith cannot be

 believed. At the end of the day, the responsibility lies

 with the Company to forward such information which

 are true and the blame cannot be passed to another

 entity. 15. Since we have already held that the appellants

 were aware of the pledge agreement, non-disclosure of

 the pledge agreement invited penalty. Further, the

 corporate announcement did not disclose the fact that

 the subsisting pledge agreement facilitated one

 subscriber to subscribe to the GDR issue. The

 corporate announcement was misleading and presented

 a distorted version to the investors and created a false

 version inducing the investors to deal in securities. 16. There is no doubt that USD 7.48 million which

 included interest was eventually transferred to a

 subsidiary of the Company in accordance with the

 objects of the GDR issue. This fact has not been

 denied. Thus, there has been no diversion of money

 and there was no wrongful dealing in securities.

 Further, we do not find any complaint given by any

 shareholder or investors in this regard. The AO has

 himself given a finding that no disproportionate gain

 could be found out against the Company and its 18 Directors nor any loss was caused to the shareholders

 or investors. 17. We are accordingly of the opinion that in view of

 the fact that the appellant is a small listed Company the

 directions issued by the WTM and the penalty imposed

 by the AO is excessive and arbitrary as well as

 discriminatory. 18. In Excel Corp. (supra) the Supreme Court held: 19. Similar view was expressed by the Delhi High

 court in Rajkumar Dyeing and Printing Works Pvt.

 Ltd. In Rajendra Yadav, the Supreme Court held that

 the doctrine of equality applies to all those who are

 found guilty. The Supreme Court held: 20. Undoubtedly, the doctrine of proportionality is

 now well established in our jurisprudence and is a

 recognised facet of Article 14 of the Constitution of

 India. In Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development 20 Corporation Federation vs. B. Narasimha Reddy and

 Others (2011) 9 SCC 286, the Supreme Court held: 21. In matters relating to punitive measures the

 emphasis has shifted from the wednesbury principle of

 unreasonable to one of proportionality. A

 disproportionate punitive measure which does not 21 commensurate with the offence would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. We are of the

 opinion that in the rapid growth of administrative law

 it has become the need and necessity to control

 possible abuse of discriminatory power by

 administrative authorities. In this regard, certain

 principles have been evolved by Courts, namely, that if

 an action is taken by an authority which is contrary to

 law or which is improper or where the action taken is

 unreasonable then the Court of law is duty bound to

 interfere with such action and one such mode of

 exercising power is to exercise the doctrine of

 proportionality. Where the punitive measure is harsh

 or disproportionate to the offence which shocks the

 conscience it is within the discretion of the Court to

 exercise the doctrine of proportionality and reduce the

 quantum of punishment to ensure that some rationality

 is brought to make unequals equal. 22. In this regard, the appellants have produced

 various orders passed by SEBI against various 22 companies and its Directors wherein different period of

 debarment have been given for similar/identical

 offence. For facility, a comparative table is given

 below: 23. A perusal of the aforesaid table indicates that in

 the case of Aqua Logistics Ltd., the said Company had

 raised 62.38 million USD and the Company was

 debarred from accessing the securities market for a

 period of three years. Similarly, in the case of Zenith

 Birla (India) Ltd. the total amount raised through

 GDRs was 22.99 million USD and the Company was 23 debarred for a period of three years whereas in the

 instant case, the appellant Company had raised 6.9

 million USD but has been debarred for five years. 24. In similar circumstances, in Aksh Optifibre Ltd. in

 Appeal No.535 of 2019 and other connected appeals

 decided on 27th June, 2022 this Tribunal reduced the

 debarment from 5 years to three years. 25. Consequently, in our opinion, the debarment period

 against the appellants is excessive and discriminatory

 and not in consonance with the penalty awarded in

 similar matters. 26. Similarly, the AO penalised the appellant

 Company of Rs.10,30,00,000/-, the Managing Director

 Rs.20,00,000/- and other Directors Rs.10,00,000/-. In

 similar matters lesser penalty has been awarded. For

 facility, a comparative table is given hereunder: 27. A perusal of the aforesaid table indicates that

 G.V. Films Ltd. had raised 40 million USD and the

 Company was only awarded a penalty of

 Rs.25,00,000/-. Another Company Syncom Healthcare

 Ltd., raised 20.74 million USD and was awarded a

 penalty of Rs.25 lakhs whereas in the case of the

 appellant Company who raised 6.99 million USD has

 been awarded Rs.10,30,00,000/-. In Aksh Optifibre

 Ltd. in Appeal No.535 of 2019 and other connected

 appeals, a penalty of Rs.10.15 crores was imposed.

 This Tribunal by our order dated 27th June, 2022

 reduced the penalty to Rs.25 lakhs. Thus, in our 25 opinion, the penalty imposed is excessive and

 disproportionate to the violation and is also

 discriminatory. 28. We find that such excessive penalty imposed

 upon the Company does not make any sense. In the

 instant case, there are 7,300 public shareholders and

 180 workmen. Penalising the Company with such

 heavy penalty is infact penalising the shareholders

 which is not justifiable especially for a running

 company. Further, the money raised through GDRs

 has been received by the Company and has not been

 misappropriated. The same has been utilitised for the

 purpose for which the GDR was issued, namely, for

 the Company's subsidiary which fact has not been

 disputed. Thus, it is not a case of defalcation of the

 funds. 29. Thus, the directions so issued under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act and the penalty so imposed

 under Section 15HA are disproportionate and does not

 commensurate with the violation in view of the 26 directions and penalty that has been imposed in similar

 matters by the respondent. 30. A penalty of Rs.10,00,000/- has been imposed on

 the Independent Directors only on the strength that

 they were signatories to the board resolution. On the

 same basis, they have been debarred for five years. In Mr. Gurmeet Singh vs. SEBI , appeal no.406 of 2020

 and other connected appeals decided on 20th

 September, 2021, this Tribunal has held that merely

 being a signatory to a resolution does not mean that

 these Directors were part of the fraudulent scheme and

 that the respondent was required to show some other

 evidence to show that these Directors were also part of

 the fraudulent scheme. A specific assertion was made

 that they were not involved in the day to day affairs of

 the Company and that they had nothing to do with the

 proceeds of the GDR. This fact has not been denied by

 the respondent. The imposition of penalty is wholly

 arbitrary. 31. In Mr. S.N. Sharma vs. SEBI , appeal no.472 of

 2020 decided on 7th September, 2021 this Tribunal

 has held that merely because Non-Independent

 Executive Directors were part of the resolution

 cannot be penalized as they were not involved in the

 day to day affairs of the Company. 32. Similar view was held by this Tribunal in the

 case of Govind Das Pasari vs. SEBI, Appeal No. 201 of 2019 decided on April 30, 2021; Prafull

 Anubhai Shah vs. SEBI, Appeal No.389 of 2021

 decided on June 28, 2021; Jaiprakash Kabra,

 Appeal no.58 of 2021 decided on September 2,

 2021, Gurmeet Singh, Appeal No.406 of 2020 and

 other connected appeals decided on September 20,

 2021 and Rajesh Shah, Appeal no.433 of 2021

 decided on July 5, 2021. In addition to the

 aforesaid, this Tribunal in Chromatic India Ltd.,

 Appeal No.393 of 2020 and other connected

 appeals decided on May 12, 2021 held that being

 part of the resolution by itself cannot make the 28 incumbent liable and something further related to

 fraud committed by the incumbent is required to be

 shown. This Tribunal held: 33. An application has been filed by the respondent to

 bring on record additional documents. It was urged

 that these documents are relevant for the purpose of

 justifying the action taken against the Non-Executive

 Independent Director. In this regard a similar

 application was filed by the respondent in appeal

 no.406 of 2020 Mr. Gurmeet Singh and other 29 connected appeals. This Tribunal rejected the

application seeking permission to bring on record the

additional documents. This Tribunal held: 34. The same principle is applicable in the instant

 case and the application is rejected. We are of the

 opinion that since the loan has been repaid and the

 GDR proceeds have been utilized in accordance

 with the objects of the GDR the finding that a fraud

 was committed by the Company is patently

 erroneous. We are of the opinion that when the

 proceeds have come into the Company and have

 been utilized by the subsidiary and have been

 ulitized for the purpose of which the GDR was

 issued the debarment of the Non-Executive Director,

 namely, Mr. Subodh Kumar Goel and Mr. Mahendra 31 Kumar Gupta for five years and penalty of Rs.10

 lakhs only on the basis that they were signatories to

 the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 31st

 March, 2008 appears to be excessive as well as

 unjustified. Other than this there is no evidence that

 they were part and parcel in the issuance of the

 GDR. A categorical statement has been made by

 these Directors that they were not involved in the

 day to day affairs of the Company. In the absence

 of any finding, merely because they were signatories

 to the resolution these Non-Executive Directors

 cannot be held to be part of the fraudulent scheme.

 The imposition of penalty and the debarment cannot

 be sustained. 35. A penalty of Rs.20 lakhs has been imposed upon the

 Directors of the Company. We find that in similar

 circumstances in the case of Visu International Ltd. a

 penalty of Rs.10 lakhs was imposed upon the Directors

 and in Govind Das Pasari a penalty of Rs.15 lakhs was

 imposed. Considering the aforesaid, we are of the 32 opinion that the penalty of Rs.20 lakhs is excessive.

 Considering the fact that they have already undergone

 debarment for more than three years we think it fit and

 proper if the penalty is reduced to Rs.10 lakhs each to

 be paid by the Directors. 36. Consequently, while affirming the order of the

 WTM and AO of the aforesaid violations committed

 by the Company we reduce the debarment period of

 the Company and the Managing Director, Director and

 Independent Director from five years to the period

 undergone. In so far as the penalty imposed by the AO

 is concerned, the penalty against the Company is

 reduced to Rs.25 lakhs. The penalty against the

 Managing Director and Director is reduced to Rs.10

 lakhs. The penalty imposed against the Independent

 Director is quashed. The appeals are partly allowed.

 Misc. application no.947 of 2021 is also disposed of

 accordingly. In the circumstances of the case, parties

 shall bear their own costs. 37. This order will be digitally signed by the Private

 Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned

 parties are directed to act on the digitally signed copy

 of this order. Certified copy of this order is also

 available from the Registry on payment of usual

 charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member

 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

14.7.2022 KSHMI RAJALAKSHMI
 NAIR
 H

 Date: 2022.07.19
RHN H NAIR 16:58:12 +05'30'