SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ICMR’s Exam Chaos &amp; NTA’s Absurd Rules: A Perfect Recipe for Candidate Misery
DATE: 2025-02-16
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1iqm2mp/icmrs_exam_chaos_ntas_absurd_rules_a_perfect/

--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR:

ICMR gave no updates for almost a year, then assigned Delhi as the exam city despite selecting Maharashtra centres. Had to spend ₹10k on flights instead of ₹0.1k if it were a local centre which I selected.

NTA took it to another level: no belongings allowed, not even handkerchiefs, transparent pens or plastic folders. Forced to tear ID xerox copies. No lockers, so we had to pay ₹100 to leave valuables with strangers in the open. Extreme paranoia of exam staff over basic things like nose rings and coins.

Spent a fortune just to take an exam under unnecessary stress. Absolute mismanagement.

Whole Story:

Let’s start with ICMR:

I remember filling the form and selecting the three centres: Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, back in December 2023. But but but, for so many months I never got the update, they even removed the ad and the website was almost non existent so I believed it must be some ICMR scam! They got their ₹1500 from many participants!

However I got email and SMS last month and here we go: the exam city - Delhi! And centre would be told 72 hours prior! As I selected cities from Maharashtra there would be a possibility that centre could still be in or near my home city! Should I risk booking tickets for Delhi or not? As train tickets were not at all available and flight tickets were ₹5k!

Anyway I discussed with mom and got flight tickets worth ₹10k which are almost non refundable unless we pay extra or have some gold tier fly miles or some premium membership! Anyway luckily centre was indeed Noida which was 3 metro changes from Delhi airport!

Anyway I spent ₹10k for just an exam which could be in my very own city where I’d just have to spend maximum ₹0.1k! But as we people say government institutes don’t at all care for the people! ₹1509 from every candidate and more than a years time wasn’t enough to atleast book one centre in any other part of the country! Gareeb log! 

NTA: 

Now let’s talk about these clowns! More the words I’ll use will still be less to describe these clowns!

People have come from all over the country and still they couldn’t arrange one small room to keep our belongings! Nothing was allowed inside! Thank to the God that they atleast allowed the clothes we were wearing!

I can agree watches, wallet or phones are not allowed in some centres but here they went several levels ahead! My cello gripper was not allowed, yes right! I had imprinted all my notes in that transparent pen and was planning to put efforts to somehow copying in the exam! wtf yaar! Thoda toh deemag Lagao!

And in exam hall they confiscated my plastic sheet inside which I usually keep my photocopies whenever I attend any interview or exam! And their excuse: “aaj kal it a modern technology hai log kahi se bhi cheat kar sakta hai” yea right one 100% fully transparent plastic sheet has answers written in invisible ink and all I wanted is to cheat in that exam! 

And it was clearly mentioned in hall ticket to carry xerox copies of adhar card and one id! Which too they made us tear ! Paper waste i could have used those copies somewhere else! Yes I’m not cheap but still paper waste! And yes they believed whoever printed my driving license back in 2017 had imprinted all the answers of that exam! They literally said I can use xerox copies to copy in exam!

Even cash or coins weren’t allowed! 

Most of us came from different cities all over the country so obviously we will have our stuff with us! Aisa nahi na ki sirf khudko uthaya aur chale aaye! And these people even after taking ₹1500 from each candidates and making most spend atleast ₹5k more, couldn’t arrange atleast a small secured place to keep our bags!

We had to keep our bags with every valuables including our cash, phones or other devices in some strangers’ watch by paying them ₹100! That too our stuff lying on open ground! Any damage due to suns heat would ICMR or NtA pay? 

Anyway! There were girls with tape pieces on their nose and ears! They even made them cover their nose ring and ear rings! Yeh toh hadd hui!

They expected us after booking ₹10k worth of flight should we have booked ₹2k room nearby centre and keep our stuff there secured? I bet they wouldn’t even have allowed the room keys! Our stuff was in mercy of some strangers luckily nothing got stolen, but the paranoia is always there right! And in this paranoia they expect us to give exam cool minded !

I request NtA to hire people who don’t have primitive thinking like the invigilator who thought my plastic sheet to keep documents safe is some kind of spying device! Instead of modernising we are getting more primitive to get scared of being spied by a merely plastic sheet, thanks to your uneducated staff of NtA

P.S. exam date: 30-01-2025. A chaotic Thursday!