Walmart-owned Flipkart has secured a lending licence from the Reserve Bank of India, according to certificates accessed by Reuters . This makes it the first-ever e-commerce company to obtain a non-banking financial company (NBFC) licence.

E-commerce platforms cannot offer loans directly; they must partner with banks or NBFCs to provide loans. With the NBFC licence, Flipkart is expected to launch its operations in a few months, according to the news agency that first reported the development.

This NBFC licence comes as Flipkart pushes forward with its new UPI-based fintech application, Super.Money. Launched nearly a year ago, the financial services app is reportedly the fifth-largest UPI player . It also integrates Flipkart UPI directly into the e-commerce platform.

The app recently announced it would offer credit cards in partnership with Axis Bank, as part of a business model aimed at achieving profitability, according to CEO Prakash Sikaria.

“Payments are not a revenue line for us, and one hundred percent will come from financial services,” Sikaria said in an interview with Moneycontrol, highlighting the non-profitability of UPI services. The company now plans to offer lending services through its UPI app, Super.Money.

Non-banking finance companies are different from regular banks despite both being able to engage in investment and lending. They cannot issue cheques drawn on themselves or accept demand deposits.

Flipkart acquiring the status of NBFC means that it can:

If Flipkart offers NBFC services, users will have several benefits. A few of them are:

The announcement of Flipkart’s entry into the lending business comes as the company prepares for its Initial Public Offering (IPO) in India. Simultaneously, the fintech company plans to move its base back to India—where it was originally founded—from its current headquarters in Singapore. Reportedly, it has also received board approval for this shift.

According to anonymous sources, both Amazon and Flipkart had applied for an NBFC licence in 2017. However, Flipkart became the first to secure the licence, accelerating its strategic plans. Meanwhile, rival Amazon is also reportedly looking to acquire Axio , a lending startup.

It is apparent that e-commerce platforms that obtain an NBFC license will gain leverage over competitors like Amazon, Myntra, and Ajio by controlling credit grants and interest rates. Does this suggest that many e-commerce platforms will apply for the NBFC license to enable easier cash flow in the e-commerce business?

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event