SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Google Pixel Quality Control and the scam pertaining to after sales service by conducted by b2x
DATE: 2020-03-19
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/fkvenf/google_pixel_quality_control_and_the_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Dear Readers,

In early 2017 I created a post on reddit which was something like- Think hard before getting a Pixel in India, after having nightmarish experience with HTC service centre. Now after almost three years, I am creating this topic, which will show you what I meant then, give it more substance and additionally will reflect what scam is being conducted by its third party service provider namely B2X. Kindly take the time to read it in full.

• May, 2017: I purchased a Google Pixel XL from Flipkart effectively for Rs. 43,499 (Price was Rs. 53,499 but there was a ridiculous exchange offer of Rs. 10,000 on Asus Zenfone 5).

• July-August, 2019: The phone was running fine during this period of 2 years 2 months but suddenly the microphone crapped out. Obviously the tech world was already known with Google Pixel 2016 infamous microphone issue which Google themselves acknowledged and with respective lawsuits affected users are getting up to USD 500 refund in the US. Anyhow, I called support and they arranged a pickup and afterwards I received a service charge quotation of Rs. 3,251 from B2X. I initially rejected to pay, as the issue is acknowledged by Google and proven as a hardware defect. But their team lead somehow sweet talked me out of it, sir, we will also change the motherboard of the device within that cost and so on. So I paid the amount.

https://i.imgur.com/90XqwD5.png

I receive the phone back, expecting it to repaired and extremely tensed that they might have put scratches on it, as mine was in immaculate condition even after two years of usage, I unpack the Fedex box and shocked! That's not my phone. A phone which is wrapped in plastic sheet and 'looked like a brand new device', of 128 GB no less. I was over the moon for like an hour. It was totally discharged. I charged it and turned it on and found it was running the Nougat firmware still. Whatever, I started using it in full cheerful state. Google customer support zindabaad.

Update: Google customer support sent me a email dated 23 Mar, 2020, acknowledging that the replacement device they sent me back in August, 2019 was indeed a Factory-tested device, worth of Rs. 17,999 only. So nutshell is- without even informing me they sent me a refurbished device. Fantastic. 

• December, 2019: Not even four month passes, and this replacement device now has a broken vibration module out of the blue. Vibration is the only mode I use on my phones so I couldn't ignore it. Called Google support again, another pick up and this time B2X quoted me a service charge of Rs. 1,539, in which the actual hardware costed like 400 rupees only and the rest was there service charge with tax, Lol. Anyway, I paid it.

https://i.imgur.com/IwDv7EO.png

• January, 2020: Less than a month passes by, the vibration motor is dead again. I said OK Google, Assistant doesn't trigger, no kidding......I called the support again and another pickup was conducted and this time they repaired the vibration module for free. As they didn't have any other option as it was within 30 days from last service.

• 04th March, 2020: It has been 20 odd days since the last service, now the phone at one fine morning suddenly died on me. I mean I was watching a Linus video or something, and it just rebooted once, pops up on homescreen and then totally goes blank. I was pretty sure the battery crapped up or something. But no, it never turned back on, no matter what I tried. So I do the obvious, call Google support again and yet another pick up and now the main point, this time around B2X has initially quoted me a service charge of Rs. 25,104 (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand One Hundred and Four only). I was what? Then someone calls me over phone and tells me there is a discount on this and the revised service charge will be of Rs. 21,724. I said outright to him that I will not be paying a single penny and I will be initiating legal steps.

https://i.imgur.com/LhFIog9.png

To sum up; I have paid Rs. 43,499 for a Pixel XL in May, 2017. The device then crapped up with the infamous microphone issue which is Google's own manufacturing defect and the same acknowledged two years down the line, I paid Rs. 3,251 for it. In return which I received a device 'looked like a new phone'. Barely four months pass, the vibrator failed, for which I paid Rs. 1,539. Then the vibrator fails again, no charge this time. So a total of Rs. 4,800 down the drain for service charge only. And now, then want me to pay Rs. 21,724 rupees, to repair my phone as motherboard replacement cost. 

Justify this, you pay Rs. 50,000 (original price plus service charge) and then in the end you have a dead device and to make it un-dead B2X/ Google wants Rs. 21,724. I have already emailed them, tweeted them but no reply, yet, and their sugar coated replies by the customer service are made in a way to lure you in, like before sending in the phone this time, they assured me, sir, this time the problem will be completely taken care of and you will have no problems in the future whatsoever. And this is them taking care of the problem. I am certain there is no connection between the customer care and B2X. B2X runs its own dirty games, either with or without Google's connivance.

This post was created to gain traction, that is it. No other purpose it is meant for. I really don't want to hear opinions about how Chinese OnePlus minus or meme company phones are better, I am not into those, I will never be. So anyone caring about Pixels, the camera and the software experience (which is hands down sublime, but still outdone totally by the pathetic hardware quality control) kindly do me a favour. Vote this post up, so that it can be seen by as many people as possible and share this post in other places if you kindly. Also, if there are other places where I can post this topic which will gain more traction kindly advise me of the same, I will be grateful to you.

Regards,
SG