This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 528 of

Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita (for short 'BNSS') to

quash the proceedings against the petitioner/accused No.2 in

Crime No.200 of 2024 of Central Crime Police Station,

Hyderabad, registered for the offences punishable under

Sections 403, 406 and 420 read with 120b of the Indian Penal

Code , 1860 (for short ' IPC '). 2. The brief facts of the case are that respondent No.2/de

facto complainant lodged a complaint against the petitioner

and other accused alleging that the petitioner and other

accused are cheating and defrauding the individuals by

collecting huge amounts by way of investment. He further

stated that Dikazo & DKZ Investments was established in the

year 2018, claimed to operate B2B and B2C businesses,

partnering with Amazon and BOULT. They promised investors

to give 8-12% monthly profits for their investments by hiring

influencers to promote their business. Initially, profits were 2 SKS,J Crl.P.No.11384 of 2024 paid on time until June 2024, but payout of July was delayed.

The company cited RBI certification processes, releasing small

amounts to some investors. However, on 29.08.2024, the

office suddenly closed, citing a police report, and employees'

phones went unanswered, prompting over 200 investors to file

a case at Madhapur Police Station, which was redirected to

the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) due to the alleged fraud

exceeding Rs. 75 lakhs. Basing on the said complaint, the

Police registered a case in Crime No.200 of 2024, for the

offences punishable under Section 403 , 406 and 420 read

with 120b of IPC . Hence, the present criminal petition. 3. Heard Sri Mohammed Abdul Qaiyoum, learned counsel

appearing on behalf of the petitioner as well as Sri M.

Vivekananda Reddy, learned Assistant Public Prosecutor

appearing on behalf of respondent No.1-State and Sri Aashir

Mehtab Khan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of

respondent No.2. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

petitioner is innocent as he has no connection with the

allegations made by respondent No.2 and has not committed

any offense as alleged. He further submitted that although 3 SKS,J Crl.P.No.11384 of 2024 the Dikazo Solutions Private Limited was incorporated in the

year 2018, but operations did not commence until August

2020. In early 2022, accused No.3, joined in the accused

No.1-Company with a promise of support and develop the said

Company, but eventually took control over the company by

the end of 2022. He further submitted that the petitioner

transferred ownership, assets, and liabilities to Accused No.3,

as reflected in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs records, with

effect from 07.03.2024 and that the petitioner also denies his

involvement with DKZ Technologies, which was registered

under the name of accused No.3. Therefore, learned counsel

for the petitioner seeks to quash the proceedings against the

petitioner stating that no purpose would be served by

undergoing vigorous criminal trials based on false, incorrect,

and frivolous allegations. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing on behalf

of respondent No.2 filed counter affidavit denying the

averments made in the petition stating that the petitioner

owns and operates DKZ Technologies, deceived thousands of

individuals with a promise of paying 8-12% monthly returns

of their investments. It is further stated that the petitioner 4 SKS,J Crl.P.No.11384 of 2024 signed documents and received funds through banking

channels, with sufficient documentary evidence to support

these claims. Therefore, he prayed the Court to dismiss the

criminal petition. 6. At this stage, it is imperative to note that to quash the

proceedings under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., the Court has to

see whether the averments in the complaint would prima facie

show that the offence as alleged by the Police constitutes.

Further, while dealing with the petition filed under Section

482 of Cr.P.C., the Court has to take into consideration the

avermetns made in the complaint and the statements of the

witnesses and if the averments made therein do not constitute

any offence, as alleged against the accused persons, then the

proceedings against the accused are liable to be quashed. 7. Furthermore, the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Surendra Kori 1 ,

wherein in paragraph No.14, held as under: 8. In the light of the submissions made by both the

learned counsel and a perusal of the material available on

record, it is clear that the petitioner is a partner in accused

No.1-Company, as evidenced by the Memorandum of

Understanding. Despite adding accused No.3 as a Director,

the petitioner remains accountable for fulfilling the promises

made to thousands of investors who invested their lifetime

savings and took loans. The substantial fund collected by the

petitioner over the years cannot be shifted to the responsibility

of accused No.3. Multiple investors possess documentary

evidence, contradicting claims that the FIR was filed to extort

money. The signed documents of the petitioner and banking

transactions provide sufficient evidence. Therefore, the

involvement of the petitioner in the alleged offenses cannot be 6 SKS,J Crl.P.No.11384 of 2024 decided in this petition in the initial stage and investigation

has to be conducted to determine his culpability by taking

into consideration his defence. Prima facie case exists against

the petitioner, warranting further investigation. 9. In view of the above discussion as well as the law laid

down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Madhya

Pradesh (supra), this Court does not find any merit in the

criminal petition to quash the proceedings against the

petitioner and the same is liable to be dismissed. 10. Accordingly, this Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall stand

closed. ______________
 K. SUJANA, J

Date: 29.10.2024
SAI