The Indian government’s IT Ministry has blocked access to over 100 websites engaging in “organised investment” and “task based part time job frauds”, as per a government press release issued yesterday.

The websites were blocked under the Information and Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act). While the exact provision under which the blocking was carried out wasn’t specified in the press release, Section 69A of the IT Act notably empowers the government to block public access to online content on various grounds, like national security, public order, and so on.

The blocking came after a tip-off from the Home Ministry’s Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre, which identified the websites last week. The government also claimed to have received multiple citizen complaints on these activities, adding that they significantly threatened Indian citizens and posed data security risks too.

What sort of scams were these websites involved in? : Allegedly run from abroad, these accounts used digital advertisements, messaging apps, and “mule/rented” accounts to carry out task-based and investment-related “economic crimes”. The proceeds from these fraudulent activities were laundered from India using overseas ATM withdrawals, cryptocurrencies, and international fintech services.

The scammers allegedly placed digital ads on Google and Meta platforms in multiple languages—they advertised work-from-home jobs, sometimes using Hindi phrases like “ghar baithe job” (work from home) and “ghar baithe kamai kaise karen” (how to earn from home). These ads were targeted towards women, unemployed youth seeking part-time employment, and retirees. After clicking on them, the victim would be redirected to a WhatsApp or Telegram chat, where the scammer initiates conversations with them, asking them to perform tasks like liking videos online, or rating locations on digital maps in exchange for money. The victim is paid once the task is completed, although they’re then asked to invest more of their own money “to get more returns against given [the] task”. After they pledge the sum, the victim’s deposits are frozen.

Government lists out precautionary measures for citizens : The press release urged citizens to do their due diligence before investing in high commission schemes over the Internet. They should also avoid transactions with unknown accounts, as they could be linked to money laundering or terror financing. This could lead to the police blocking accounts, along with other legal actions.

Additionally, they should refrain from conducting financial transactions without verifying the unknown person who has contacted them over WhatsApp or Telegram. They should also verify the receiver’s name when paying them via UP—if the name is random, it could be a mule account and a fraudulent scheme. Victims should also check where the initial commission is sourced from.

Read more

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event