1. The plaintiff has filed the present suit against the defendants praying

 for a decree of Rs. 1,15,92,877/- along with an interest @18% per

 annum. 2. The Plaintiff carried on and/or still carries on business of providing

 services of brokerage and marketing. 3. The defendant no.1, carried on and/or carries on business of

 procuring, storing, warehousing, dispatching, promoting, packaging,

 formulating, buying, selling, exchanging, altering, importing,

 exporting, promoting, packaging, assembling, repairing, advertising,

 marketing, distributing or otherwise dealing in whole or in part on

 wholesale basis or otherwise all kinds of services of goods and

 merchandise either on its own or through licensees, agents, resellers,

 distributors and contractors. 4. The defendant No. 2 is well established in India as a progressive and

 professional Freight Forwarding and Logistics Management Company, 3 and it offers a broad range of services covering Sea, Air Logistic and

 Projects. 5. On receipt of Writ of Summons, the defendants have entered

 appearance and have filed their respective written statements. 6. CASE OF THE PLAINTIFFS a) On 14th October, 2014, one Mr. K. Prasad representing himself to

 be an officer of the defendant no.1 approached the plaintiff

 particularly one of the Director of the plaintiff Company, namely

 Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal and expressed their intention to take a large

 warehouse in or around Kolkata on rental basis and for that

 purpose sought for the brokerage service of the plaintiff. b) On being approached, the plaintiff acting through its Director,

 agreed to provide brokerage services to the defendant no.1 and

 informed Mr. K. Prasad, regarding some of the terms and

 conditions, which the plaintiff follows, wherein there is a term

 regarding the payment of services provided by the plaintiff, and it

 was informed by the plaintiff to the Mr. K. Prasad that in case of

 lease/rent, the plaintiff charge as and by way of brokerage the

 sum equivalent to one month's rental plus service tax as

 applicable both from the tenant as well as from the landlord on

 finalization of the deal or on handing over possession, whichever

 is earlier. c) It was further informed by the plaintiff, that if the defendant no.1

 wants to utilize such brokerage services of the plaintiff then the

 defendant no.1 shall not be entitled to enter into direct

 negotiation or direct agreement with the landlords of the

 warehouses/ properties to be shown and/or particulars whereof

 would be furnished by the plaintiff to the defendant no.1. d) Pursuant to such oral agreement between the plaintiff company

 and the defendant no.1, on or about 14th October, 2014, the said

 Mr. K. Prasad, being the representative of the defendant no.1,

 sent an e-mail to Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal with a draft of an

 agreement described as "Mutual Non-disclosure Agreement" and

 the same was acknowledged and replied by the plaintiff by an e-

 mail dated 18th October, 2014, indicating some minor

 modifications. By the said e-mail, the plaintiff also requested he

 defendant no. 1 to go through the proposed modifications and let

 the plaintiff know about the views of the defendant no. 1. e) Ultimately, in response to a further e-mail sent by the said Mr.

 Ramesh Kejriwal of the plaintiff on 4th December, 2014, the

 defendant no.1 through the said Mr. K. Prasad by an e-mail dated

 4th December, 2014 accepted such modifications in the said draft

 agreement described as "Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement", and

 instructed the plaintiff to forward the signed copy of the said

 agreement to the said Mr. K. Prasad and such 'Mutual Non-

 Disclosure Agreement' was prepared in duplicate on requisite non- 5 judicial stamp papers after executing both the agreements and

 forwarded the same to the defendant no.1 by and under cover of a

 letter dated 16th December, 2014. The plaintiff also requested the

 defendant no. 1 to return one set of the agreement after signing

 the same for the record. f) The plaintiff in performance of its obligations under the said

 agreement started showing properties in an around Kolkata to the

 defendant no. 1 to perform its obligations under the said

 agreement, the plaintiff had forwarded photographs and details of

 properties in and around Kolkata to the defendant no.1 for the

 requirements of its warehouse. g) The defendant no.1 pursuant to such agreement, by way of an e- mail dated 27th October, 2014 forwarded a check-list to the

 Plaintiff and further requested to fill up the details of the

 properties in the format as provided in the check-list and the

 plaintiff had duly acknowledged and replied to the e-mail dated

 27th October, 2014, on 28th October, 2014 by two several e-mails

 by filling up the check-list in respect of two properties, namely,

 Bantala Property and Dhulagarh Property along with photographs

 thereof as required by the defendant no.1 h) By an e-mail dated 31st December, 2014, the plaintiff forwarded

 to the defendant no.1 its proposal for a warehouse along with

 particulars of the property, at Sreerampore, Delhi Road, Hooghly, 6 for its perusal which was at that point of time occupied by

 Khadim and was about to be vacated. i) By an e-mail dated 12th January, 2015, Mr. K. Prasad of the

 defendant no.1 requested the plaintiff to send the postal address

 of the Sreerampore Warehouse, which was therein described as

 Keola Warehouse as the said warehouse was and is owned by

 Keola Associates Pvt. Ltd., and the same was forwarded by the

 plaintiff by an e-mail dated 13th January, 2015, to the defendant

 no.1 by the plaintiff. j) Thereafter, time to time discussions took place between the

 parties regarding finalizing of the Sreerampore property, but

 sometime during the month of January, 2015, the said Mr. K.

 Prasad representing the defendant no.1 informed the plaintiff and

 particularly its Director, Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal that the defendant

 no.1 had appointed the defendant no. 2 as its agent, to select

 and/or choose the warehouse in or around Kolkata on its behalf

 and one Mr. Pankaj Dubey from the Gurgaon Office of the

 defendant no.2 would get in touch with the said Mr. Ramesh

 Kejriwal in the matter. k) On the basis of the discussions between Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal of

 the plaintiff and Mr. Pankaj Dubey of the defendant no. 2 as

 aforesaid, Mr. Pankaj Dubey by an e-mail dated 3rd February, 7 2015 requested the plaintiff to share the details of the said

 Sreerampore Property. l) In response to the e-mail Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal of the plaintiff by

 an e-mail dated 3rd February, 2015 sent to the said Mr. Pankaj

 Dubey with copy to Mr. R.K. Satapathy informed that the plaintiff

 shall share all the documents and photographs of the said

 Sreerampore Property and immediately on 3rd February, 2015,

 the said Mr. R.K. Satapathy by another e-mail addressed to Mr.

 Ramesh Kejriwal of the plaintiff wanted to confirm a visit to the

 said Sreerampore Property, and asked for details pertaining to the

 said property. m) Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal by an e-mail dated 3rd February, 2015,

 forwarded to Mr. Pankaj Dubey and Mr. R.K. Satapathy of the

 defendant no.2, some photographs, drawings and copy of

 documents relating to the said Sreerampore Warehouse and also

 Google Earth Picture link showing the said Sreerampore

 Warehouse for their reference. n) On the basis of the request made by the said Mr. Satapathy of the

 defendant no.2 for a site visit, the said Mr. Kejriwal of the plaintiff

 fixed such site visit on 5th February, 2015 and it was agreed that

 for that purpose the said Mr. Satapathy shall visit the office of the

 plaintiff on that day at 9.30 a.m. However, the said Mr. Satapathy

 did not reach the office of the plaintiff on 5th February, 2015, at 8 9.30 a.m. and instead reached the office on or around 12.30 p.m.,

 as a result to that the visit of the said Sreerampose site on that

 date could not be done. o) Thereafter, Mr. Satapathy informed Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal, of the

 plaintiff that they are not keen to finalize the tenancy relating to

 the said Sreerampore Property and requested for some other

 warehouses options in and around Kolkata. Accordingly, Mr.

 Ramesh Kejriwal by an e-mail dated 20th February, 2015

 forwarded to Mr. Satapathy with a copy to the Mr. Pankaj Dubey

 proposals for four other warehouses around Kolkata. p) On 22nd May, 2015, Mr. K. Prasad for the first time informed to

 Mr. Kejriwal that since the plaintiff could not offer inspection of

 the said Sreerampore site to the defendant no. 2 and particularly

 to the said Mr. Satapathy of the defendant no. 2 on 5th February,

 2015, the defendant no.2 had refused to enter into further

 negotiation with the plaintiff. q) Thereafter, on 28th May, 2015, the said Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal

 while visiting the said Sreerampore Warehouse came to know that

 the defendant no. 2 had directly entered into a tenancy agreement

 with Keola Associates Pvt. Ltd. for taking the said Sreerampore

 Warehouse on rent bypassing the plaintiff and the efforts of the

 plaintiff. r) Immediately on 11th June, 2015, the plaintiff caused its Advocate

 to write a letter to the defendant no.2 with copies thereof to the

 Managing Director and the Manager, H.R. of the defendant no.1

 informing them that because of their conduct and action the

 plaintiff has suffered business loss and also loss of reputation

 which were assessed at Rs. 1 crore. Though the notices were

 served upon the defendants but neither the defendant no.1 nor

 the defendant no.2 had responded to the said Advocate's Letter

 dated 11th June, 2015. s) The plaintiff again on 4th December, 2015 sent another notice to

 the defendants as reminder but no reply was sent to the plaintiff. t) The plaintiff states that because of the wrongful and illegal acts of

 the defendants and each one of them in entering into the tenancy

 agreement directly with the landlord of the said Sreerampore

 property measuring about 85000 sqaure feet which was to be let

 out @Rs. 20/- per square feet per month by avoiding the plaintiff

 after obtaining the brokerage services of the plaintiff as aforesaid,

 the plaintiff has suffered financial loss to the extent of two (2)

 month's rent amounting to Rs. 34,00,000/-. u) In view of the aforesaid conduct of the defendants and each one of

 them, the plaintiff has also suffered damages by way of loss of

 reputation in the market, which damages the plaintiff reasonably

 assesses at Rs. 66,00,000/-. 7. CASE OF THE DEFENDANT NO.1 : 560055, Karnataka, India. b) The Defendant No.1 was looking for a befitting space on a long

 term lease suitable to its requirement for expanding its business

 operations, the Defendant was in regular touch with different real

 estate brokerage firms and also individuals but not limited to the

 Plaintiff, the defendant No. 2, CBRE, a renowned commercial real

 estate company, etc. on a non-exclusive basis. c) The plaintiff vide an email and letter bearing reference No.

 PPML/W/52/201402015, dated 25th October, 2014, had sent its

 proposals on a couple of properties and also its schedule of fees

 that would be charged as commission in the event either of the

 properties offered in the said letter is finalized and taken on lease

 by the Defendant No.1. However, the said proposal was rejected

 by the Defendant No.1 on account of certain legal and non-

 suitable issues. d) The Defendant No.1 took a call in view of the inordinate delay in

 finalizing a space for its warehouse along with other activities

 which required expertise advice, to not enter into a direct lease in 11 Kolkata and instead engaged a third party logistics service

 provider for its warehouse requirement. e) In view of the aforesaid, the Defendant No.1 handed over the

 responsibilities to the Defendant No. 2, to finalize the location for

 the warehouse, providing support functions and related services

 etc. and in due course of all these arrangement, the Defendant

 No.1 introduced the Defendant no. 2 to the plaintiff to

 independently explore the possibility of a mutual relationship

 without any intervention of the Defendant No.1. f) The "Clause 4-Defence and Indemnity" of the Master Services

 Agreement clearly enumerates that the Defendant No. 2 shall

 release and will defend, hold harmless and indemnify Defendant

 No.1 and/or its subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers,

 employees, agents, successors and assigns ("Amazon Indemnified

 Parties") from and against any allegation or claim based on, or

 any loss, damage, settlement, cost, expense and any other

 liability (including but not limited to claims and/or expenses

 arising from any compensation, salary, remuneration,

 contributions or any amount payable to the Personnel or required

 to be paid or contributed for or on behalf of or in respect of

 Personnel under the applicable Laws, reasonable attorneys' fees

 incurred and/or those necessary to successfully establish the

 right to indemnification) arising from any act or omission by the

 Defendant No.2 and/or its Personnel, including without limitation 12 any breach or default under this Agreement or the Work Order or

 allegation or claim of negligence, strict liability or misconduct. g) Thus, it is established that no liability exists against Defendant

 No.1 for any act of the Defendant no. 2 and Defendant No.1

 cannot be implicated for any business relationship and/or

 transaction between Defendant no.2 and a third party. h) The plaintiff, vide an email dated 31st December, 2014, shared

 details of the subject property. However, in view of the definitive

 service agreement with Defendant No.2 for the warehousing

 services, the e-mail was overlooked as no services were required

 by the Defendant No.1 from the Plaintiff. i) Later the Defendant No.1 vide an email dated 12th January, 2015,

 had asked for the address of the subject property from the

 plaintiff and it was duly forwarded to the Defendant no.2, and the

 plaintiff was suggested to approach the Defendant No. 2 for any

 service requirements. j) The defendant no.1 states that no contract was either executed or

 concluded by and between the Plaintiff and the Defendant No.1

 with respect to any service. k) The details of the subject property being available on rent

 including the mandate to let-out the subject property was a

 matter of public information and the details of the same were 13 already available with different real estate brokerage

 firms/agents. Therefore, any claim of confidentiality over such

 details/ information is neither sustainable nor maintainable. 8. CASE OF THE DEFENDANT NO. 2: 9. ISSUES: 10. EVIDENCES OF THE PARTIES : 11. The defendant nos. 1 has examined one witness, being D.W.1, namely

 Mr. Rahul Sah, who is the Area Manager in Amazon Services, herein

 referred as the Defendant No.1. During his evidence, only one

 document was exhibited being Exhibit "1" (Letter of Authority of the

 defendant no.1 company to the witness.) 12. Defendant no.2 had adduced one witness being D.W.2, namely, Mr.

 Pankaj Dubey, who is heading the Business Development Team of the

 Defendant no.2. During the evidence of the witness of the defendant

 no.2, altogether 6 (six) documents were exhibited being Exhibit - 2 to

 Exhibit -7 which are as follows : 13. SUBMISSIONS OF COUNSEL FOR THE PLAINTIFF: j. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2004) 6

 SCC 516 (Link International and Another -vs- Mandya

 National Paper Mills Ltd.) and submitted that admittedly the

 defendant no. 2 had acted as an agent and will presume that they

 had not entered into the contract on behalf of the principal and

 thus the defendant no. 2 as agent would also be liable to pay the

 loss cost to the plaintiff. k. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in 1966 SCC

 OnLine All 338 (Firm Rupram Kailash Nath -vs- Cooperative

 Union, Mallawah & Anr.) and submitted that the defendant no.

 2 was acting within the scope of his authority in making the

 purchase of cloth from the plaintiff for the defendant no. 1 and if

 he made the purchase on credit and committed fraud, the

 defendant no. 1 was also liable for the act of his agent.

l. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2010) 3

 SCC 1 (Trimex International FZE Ltd. -vs- Vedanta 30 Aluminium Limited, India) and submitted that in the absence of

 sign agreement between the parties, it would be possible to infer

 from various documents duly approved and signed by the parties

 in the form of exchange of e-mails, letters, telex, telegrams and

 other means of communications. m. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in 1995 SCC

 OnLine Del 443 (M/s. Progressive Constructions Limited -vs-

 Bharat Hydro Power Corporation Limited) and submitted that

 in view of Section 4 of the Contract Act when offerer and offeree

 are not at one place and are exchanging the offer and acceptance

 through post then the contract could be deemed to have been

 entered into at the place where the offer was received and

 acceptance was posted. n. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2018) 11

 SCC 652 (Shivaji Balaram Haibatti -vs- Avinash Maruthi

 Pawar) and submitted that it is settled law that the parties to the

 suit cannot travel beyond the pleadings so also the Court cannot

 recall any findings on the issues which are not part of pleadings.

o. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2017) 9

 SCC 579 (State of Uttarakhand & Anr. -vs- Mandir Sri

 Laxman Sidh Maharaj) and submitted that the defendants

 during the course of argument has sought to make out a case 31 which have not been specifically pleader in the written statement

 and also not made out in the evidence. p. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2007) 6

 SCC 401 (M. Venkataramana Hebbar (DEAD) by LRS. -vs- M.

 Rajagopal Hebbar & Ors.) and submitted that if no denial of

 assertion made by the defendants in their written statement in

 that behalf, the said averment could, therefore, be deemed to be

 admitted in terms of Order VIII Rule 3 and Order VIII Rule 5 of

 the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908. q. Mrs. Mukherjee relied upon the judgment reported in (2005) 12

 SCC 121 (Ram Bhual -vs- Ambika Singh) and submitted that it

 is well settled that pleadings are very important and play a large

 part in adjudication of the dispute between the parties. 14. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT NO. 1: 15. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT NO. 2: f. Mrs. Chowdhury submitted that the defendant no.1 approved the

 Sreerampore property which was ultimately finalized on

 17.04.2015 between the defendant no.1 and Keola Associates Pvt.

 Ltd. and CBRE was paid one month's brookage by Keola

 Associates- Pvt. Ltd. g. Mrs. Chowdhury in support of his submissions relied upon the

 following judgments : iii. (1991) 1 SCC 1 ( Rickmers Verwaltung GMB H
 vs. The Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. ). a. Issue No. 1 : Is the suit bad or not maintainable in its present

 form or is liable to be dismissed as alleged by the defendants in

 their written statements? The plaintiff has filed the suit praying for a decree for a sum of

 Rs. 1,15,92,877/- against the defendant no. 1 or in the alternative

 against the defendant no. 2. At the time of filing of the suit, leave

 under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent was granted. The contention of

 the defendants, there was no valid contract between the plaintiff and

 the defendant no. 1. The plaintiff has filed the suit on the basis of the

 communications between the plaintiff and the defendants either oral

 or through emails. The plaintiff has relied upon the email dated 14th

 October, 2014 which was forwarded by the representative of the

 defendant no. 1 to the plaintiff which described as Mutual Non-

 Disclosure Agreement and subsequent to the email dated 14th October,

 2014, the plaintiff by an email dated 18th October, 2014 forwarded to

 the defendant no. 1, copy of the Mutual Non-disclosure Agreement

 indicating about minor modifications and requested the defendant no.

 1 to go through the said proposed modifications and informed the

 views of the defendant no. 1 to the plaintiff so that the plaintiff get the

 said agreement printed and sent to the defendant no. 1. In the said 39 process, the communication between the plaintiff and the defendants

 were continued till 20th February, 2015. It is the specific case of the plaintiff that though there were

 several communications with regard to the several properties between

 the plaintiff and the defendants and the plaintiff had forwarded the

 documents of the several properties including the Sreerampore

 property but after getting the documents and support from the

 plaintiff, the defendant no. 2 directly entered into a tenancy agreement

 with Keola Associates Private Limited for taking the Sreerampore

 Warehouse on rent ignoring the plaintiff and the efforts of the plaintiffs

 and accordingly the plaintiff has filed the present suit claiming

 damages and also paid the Court fee as per valuation and thus this

 Court finds that the suit filed by the plaintiff is maintainable in its

 present form. Issue no. 1 is decided affirmative in favour of the

 plaintiff. b. Issue No. 2 : Is the defendant no. 2, an agent of the defendant no. 1? As per the case of the plaintiff, initially the defendant no. 1 had

 approached one Ramesh Kejriwal who is one of the Director of the

 plaintiff and express that, the defendant no. 1 intends to take a larger

 warehouse in and around Kolkata on rental basis and for that purpose

 sought for the brokerage services of the plaintiff. As per request, the

 plaintiff had agreed to provide such brokerage services to the

 defendant no. 1. The plaintiff agreed for the brokerage service on 14th 40 October, 2014. The representative of the defendant no. 1 had

forwarded a draft Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement to the plaintiff.

On receipt of the same, the plaintiff had forwarded the said Mutual

Non-Disclosure Agreement by indicating the same minor

modifications. In this way, the communications between the plaintiff

and the defendant no. 1 were continued through emails. In between,

One Pankaj Dubey claiming himself to be a representative of the

defendant no. 2 had contacted Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal and informed that

the defendant no.2 was appointed as agent of the defendant no. 1 to

select and finalize a warehouse suitable for the defendant no. 1.

Subsequently, all the discussions were made between the plaintiff and

the defendant no. 2 and by an email dated 3rd February, 2015, Mr.

Pankaj Dubey had requested the plaintiff to share the details of

Sreerampore property, accordingly, the plaintiff had sent photographs,

drawings and copy of documents also google earth picture link

showing that his Sreerampore warehouse to the defendant no. 2. On

4th February, 2015, Mr. Kejriwal had forwarded further documents of

Sreerampore Warehouse to the defendant no. 2 as well as Mr.

Satapathy who is also the representative of defendant no.2 for their

record. All the correspondences were made with regard to the

Sreerampore Warehouse property between the plaintiff and the

defendant no. 2 that is Pankaj Dubey and Mr. Satapathy. On 28th

May, 2015, the plaintiff came to know that the defendant no. 2 had

directly entered into a tenancy agreement with Keola Associates

Private Limited for taking the Sreerampore Warehouse on rent by 41 bypassing the plaintiff. The case of the defendant no. 1 that the

defendant no. 1 was looking for a large space on a long term lease

suitable for its requirement for expanding its business operation and

accordingly, he was in regular touch with different real estate

brokerage firms and also individuals including plaintiff. The defendant

no. 1 has admitted that the defendant has received the details of the

shares by the plaintiff by an email dated 25th October, 2014 but the

defendant has rejected the same on account of certain legal and non-

suitable issues. It is the further case of the defendant that due to

inordinate of delay in finalizing the space for its warehouse, the

defendant no. 1 took a commercial call and decided not to enter into a

direct lease in Kolkata instead engaged a third party logistics service

provider for its warehouse requirement, accordingly, the services for

providing warehousing and related solutions were outsourced by the

defendant no. 1 to defendant no. 2. The defendant no. 1 has relied

upon a Master Services Agreement entered between defendant no. 1

and 2 on 22nd December, 2014 being Exhibit 2. The defendant no. 1

relied upon Clause 4 of the said Master Services Agreement which

reads as follows : The defendants are relying upon the Master Services

Agreement entered between the defendant no.1 and 2 dated 22nd

December, 2014 but the said agreement was not disclosed to the

plaintiff either at the time of introducing the defendant no.2 to the

plaintiff or during the exchange of correspondences with the plaintiff.

The agreement was first disclosed by the defendants in their written

statement though the communication between the plaintiff and the

defendants were continued till the month of February 2015. In

paragraph 17 of the plaint, the plaintiff has described about the

introduction of the defendant no.2 as an agent of the defendant no.1.

In the written statement, the defendant no.1 has not denied the said

contention of the plaintiff and the defendant no.2 in its written

statement admitted that the representative of the defendant no.2

insisted the plaintiff to expedite the site visit as because the

defendant no.1 was interested in the Sreerampore property. The

defendant no.1 in his examination in chief stated that the defendant

no.1 had rejected the proposal of the plaintiff and after that they

appointed a logistics service provider which is defendant no.2 from

February, 2015, the defendant no.2 entered into the picture. As per

the evidence, the defendant no.1 appointed the defendant no.2 as 44 service provider from February, 2015 but the document which the

defendant no.1 relied upon that exhibited as Exhibit-2 (Master

Services Agreement) is dated 22nd December, 2014 but one parties to

the said agreement signed on different dates and not on 22nd

December, 2014. Clause 1.1 and Clause 1.2 of the Master Services

Agreement reads as follows: The Master Services Agreement relied by the defendant does not

have any work order or any Exhibit-A as mentioned in the agreement.

Considering the entire evidence of the parties and the documents, this

Court finds that only to avoid the service of the plaintiff, the

defendants have executed the said agreement after thought and the

agreement cannot be relied upon as the agreement contained some

date, the parties to the agreement have sign the agreement on different

dates and the agreement does not contained Exhibit-A i.e. work

orders. In the written statement, the defendant no. 2 has further made

out a case that by an email dated 3rd February, 2015 requested the

CBRE to visit the Sreerampore Warehouse for inspection on 4th

February, 2015 in the morning and subsequently the defendant no. 2

inspected the site of Sreerampore Warehouse property on 4th

February, 2015 through CBRE and further fixed an inspection of the

said Warehouse with the defendant no. 1 on 6th February, 2015. In 46 paragraphs 22 and 23 of the plaint, the plaintiff has specifically made

out a case that one Mr. Satapathy, representative of the defendant no.

2 has requested for site visit on 5th February, 2015, accordingly, the

plaintiff had fixed the site visit on 5th February, 2015 at 09.30 A.M.

but Mr. Satapathy, the representative of the defendant no. 2 had not

reached due to flat tire of car of Mr. Satapathy. The said contention

has also admitted by the defendant no. 2 in its written statement at

paragraph 7 (k) of the written statement. The said stand of the

defendants are contradictory as in one hand they have visited the site

on 4th February 2015 and on the other hand they have requested the

plaintiff for site visit on 5th February 2015. The defendant no. 1 continued corresponding with the plaintiff

through email till the month of February, 2015 but the defendant no.

1 has not disclosed to the plaintiff with regard to the Master Services

Agreement entered by the defendant no. 1 and the defendant no. 2 on

22nd December, 2014. If, this Court beliefs the Master Services

Agreement than the question arise why the defendant no. 1 continued

with correspondence with the plaintiff with regard to the property

which the defendant no. 1 intends to take on long term lease. In view of the above, this Court decided the Issue No. 2

affirmative in favour of the plaintiff. c. Issue No. 3 : Does the instant suit suffer from lack of or non- disclosure of cause of action as alleged by the defendants in the

 written statement? In the plaint, at paragraph 37, the plaintiff has stated as

 follows : The plaintiff has filed the suit against the defendants on the basis

of the emails exchange between the parties with regard to the

properties as required by the defendant no. 1. Initially, the defendant

no. 1 had sent the email along with Mutual Non-disclosure Agreement

and subsequently the said correspondences were continued till the

month of February, 2015. In between the defendant no. 1 has

introduced the defendant no. 2 and the defendant no. 2 had supported

corresponding with the plaintiff on behalf of the defendant no. 1. The

plaintiff has filed the suit on the ground that on 28th May, 2015 when

Mr. Kejriwal had visited the Sreerampore Warehouse property came to

know that the defendant no. 2 had directly entered into the tenancy

agreement with Keola Associates Private Limited for taking

Sreerampore Warehouse by passing the plaintiff though the plaintiff

has provided all the documents in respect of several properties

including Sreerampore Property (Keola Associates Private Limited). The

defendant no. 2 in its written statement with respect to the paragraph

37 of the plaint has only denied that no cause of action as alleged as 48 arisen in favour of the plaintiff and in the written statement, the

 defendant no. 2 has not denied that no cause of action for filing the

 suit arose and as such the issue no. 3 is decided affirmative in favour

 of the plaintiff. d. Issue Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are taken up together as all the issues are

 connected with each other. h. Issue No.4 Was the defendant no.1 after orally accepting the terms

 and conditions of brokerage services of the plaintiff and thereafter

 having acted in furtherance to such acceptance by forwarding the

 'Mutual Non disclosure agreement', not bound and obliged to honour

 the terms thereof as stated in paragraph 5 of the plaint?

i. Issue No.5 Was not acceptance of the terms of the Mutual Non

 Disclosure agreement by the defendant No.1 final and binding after

 exchange of the emails dated 4th December, 2014 as stated in

 paragraph 7 of the plaint? j. Issue No.6 Did the defendants in consent and connivance with each

 others violating the terms of the mutual non-disclosure agreement on

 one hand and taking full advantage of the plaintiff's services on the

 other acted to the prejudice and detrimental of the plaintiff?

k. Issue No.7 Is the defendant no.2 bound by any contractual obligation

 or otherwise with the plaintiff? l. Issue No.8 Whether any concluded contract was entered into in

 between the plaintiff and the defendant No.1 which can entitle the

 plaintiff to obtain a decree of Rs.1,15,92,877/- as against the

 defendant no.1? Paragraph 5 of the plaint, the plaintiff has made out a case that

 "Pursuant to such oral agreement as aforesaid on or about 14th October,

 2014, the said Mr. K. Prasad, being the representative of the Defendant

 no.1 by an e-mail forwarded to the said Mr. Ramesh Kejriwal a draft of

 an agreement described as "Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement" It provides the acceptance of the proposal by
conduct as against other modes of acceptance. It
can be divided in two parts : (1) performance of
the conditions of a proposal; and (2) acceptance of
any consideration for a reciprocal promise which
may be offered with a proposal. The latter
corresponds to general divisions of proposals into
those which offer a promise in exchange for an act
or acts and those which offer a promise for
exchange for a promise. The bills were raised on
the basis of the said premise. They were accepted.
The promise on the part of the appellant was
acted upon by the respondent. The appellants,
thus, now should not ordinarily be permitted to
take a different stand. This aspect of the matter
was considered in Amrit Banspati Co. Ltd. v. Union of India wherein it was stated: 48. In Union of India v. Rameshwarlall
Bhagchand it was stated : It was furthermore observed : 49. In LIC v. Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli
 Kamba this Court on acceptance of provisions as
 envisaged under Sections 7 and 8 of the Contract
 Act, 1872 opined : In the case reported in (2006) 5 SCC 311 ( Bhagwati Prasad

Pawan Kumar vs. Union of India and Others ), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that: 19. It is well settled that an offer may be
 accepted by conduct. But conduct would only
 amount to acceptance if it is clear that the offeree
 did the act with the intention (actual or apparent)
 of accepting the offer. The decisions which we
 have noticed above also proceed on this principle.
 Each case must rest on its own facts. The courts
 must examine the evidence to find out whether in
 the facts and circumstances of the case the
 conduct of the "offeree" was such as amounted to
 an unequivocal acceptance of the offer made. If
 the facts of the case disclose that there was no
 reservation in signifying acceptance by conduct, it
 must follow that the offer has been accepted by
 conduct. On the other hand, if the evidence
 discloses that the "offeree" had reservation in
 accepting the offer, his conduct may not amount to
 acceptance of the offer in terms of Section 8 of the
 Contract Act." In the present case also on 14th October, 2014, Mr. K. Prasad, the

representative of the defendant no.1 had forwarded a copy of Mutual

Non-Disclosure Agreement to the plaintiff by an email (Exhibit-A). The

said fact was pleaded by the plaintiff at paragraph 5 of the plaint, the

defendant no.1 has not denied the same in the written statement. The

plaintiff with the minor modifications in the said agreement sent the

same to the defendant no.1 for perusal and if the agreement is correct,

the same is to be printed and will be sent to the defendant. On 4th

December, 2014, the defendant no.1 through the email accepted the 60 modifications in the Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement and instructed

to forward signed copy of the agreement to the defendant (Exhibit-D).

The plaintiff after preparing the Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement in

the non-judicial bond paper in two sets and after executing the same

sent to the defendant at its registered office by a letter dated 16th

December, 2014 with the request to return one set of the agreement to

the plaintiff for their record (Exhibit-S). Though the defendant no.1

has not sent one signed copy of the agreement to the plaintiff but the

plaintiff and the defendant no. 1 continued with the exchange of mails

with regard to several properties and on 31st December, 2014, the

plaintiff by an email forwarded the proposal for the warehouse of

Sreerampore property along with particulars for identification (Exhibit-

U Collectively). On receipt of the details of the Sreerampore property,

the defendant no.1 by an email dated 12th January, 2015, requested

the plaintiff to send postal address of the property and by an email

dated 13th January, 2015, the plaintiff has provided complete postal

address of the Sreerampore property to the defendant no.1 (Exhibit-V

and W). On 3rd February, 2015, the representative of the defendant

no.2 namely Pankaj Dubey sent an email to the plaintiff copy to

Satapathy requesting to share documents and pictures of the

Sreerampore property and on the same day the plaintiff had forwarded

Google Earth Pictures and link showing the warehouse for the

reference of the defendants (Exhibit-X and Y Collectively). On 4th

February, 2015, the plaintiff has sent an email to the Mr. Dubey and

Mr. Satapathy by enclosing more documents like conversion and No 61 Objection certificates obtained from the concern authorities relating to

Sreerampore Property (Exhibit-Z). On 3rd February, 2015, the plaintiff

had again sent several documents, photographs and Auto CAD DWG

to the defendants with respect Sreerampore property (Exhibit-CC

Collectively). On the request of the representative of the defendant no.2

namely Satapathy, the plaintiff fixed the site visit on 5th February,

2015 at 9.30 am but Mr. Satapathy did not reach the office of the

plaintiff at the date and time fixed by the plaintiff though the

representative of the plaintiff waited till 12.30 PM. The said fact is

admitted by the defendant no.2 in the written statement at paragraphs

7(i), (j) and (k). On 20th February, 2015, the plaintiff had again sent

details of other four properties by way of email and the same was also

received by the defendants (Exhibit-BB Collectively). On 22nd April,

2015, the plaintiff by an email again requested the defendant no.1 to

send back one copy of the agreement for record of the plaintiff and in

the said email, the plaintiff has enclosed other emails wherein, the

plaintiff had requested the defendant no.1 for sending back one signed

copy of the agreement (Exhibit-DD Collectively). Considering the above facts and circumstances this Court finds

that even after receipt of Mutual Non-Discloser Agreement by the

defendant no.1, the defendant no.1 had never informed the plaintiff

that the defendant no. 1 will not execute the agreement or does not

agree with the terms and conditions of the agreement. There is no

evidence to prove that the defendant no. 1 has informed that the 62 defendant no. 1 is not intending to continue with any deal with the

plaintiff, thus this Court safely held that there is concluded contract

between the plaintiff and the defendant no.1. The defendant no.1 relied upon the judgment reported in (1990)

4 SCC 147 ( Brij Mohan & Others vs. Sugra Begum and Others )

wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that: The judgment relied by the defendant is distinguishable from the

facts and circumstances of the present case. In the present case, the

defendant no.1 had sent the draft copy of the Mutual Non-Disclosure

Agreement and in reply, the plaintiff after some modifications returned

to the defendant no.1 and the defendant no.1 has accepted the

modifications. The defendant had never disclosed that the defendant

has not agreed with the terms and conditions of the agreement or have

not accepted the same. The defendants have relied upon the Master Services Agreement

entered between the defendant no.1 and the defendant no.2 (Exhibit- 2). The said Master Service Agreement was entered between the

defendant no.1 and defendant no. 2 on 22nd December, 2014 but

during the examination in chief of the defendant no.1 witness at

Question No. 31, a specific question was put to the witness "How and

when the defendant no. 2 entered into the picture with regard to the

property forming subject matter of the suit?/The defendant no.1 rejected

the proposal .After that they appointed a logistic service provider which

is defendant no.2 and on from February 2015, the defendant no.2

entered into the picture." The defendant no.1 has admitted during his cross-examination

with regard to the correspondences between the plaintiff and the

defendant no.1 but during his examination, the defendant no. 1 has

taken the stand that the plaintiff has committed inordinate delay in

finalising the warehouse but the defendant no. 1 has not taken the 66 said defence in the written statement. The defendant has also not

brought any evidence on record to show that the defendant has

informed the plaintiff that they have rejected the proposal of the

plaintiff. In the case reported in (2018) 11 SCC 652 (Shivaji Balaram

Haibatti -vs- Avinash Maruthi Pawar), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held that: In view of the settled position of law, the defense taken by the

defendant that the defendant no.1 has rejected the proposal of the

plaintiff cannot be accepted. At the time of evidence of the defendant no. 2 witness (DW-2)

documents being page Nos. 83 to 96 of the Judges brief of documents

were exhibited as Exhibit-4 (with Objection) and the sais documents

are the emails and property related documents with respect of

Sreerampore property with CBRE and other local representative. The

emails are dated 3rd February, 2015 to 5th February, 2015 and the

documents appearing at page nos. 93 to 96 (Exhibit-4 Collectively) are

the similar documents sent by plaintiff to the defendants i.e. Mr.

Satapathy and Mr. Pankaj Dubey on 3rd February, 2015 at 1:14 PM

(Exhibit-CC Collectively) but the email which the defendants are

relying upon are of 5th February, 2015 at 7:19 PM. On 4th February, 68 2015 at 7:14 PM, the plaintiff had again sent documents to the

defendants by mail (Exhibit-Z). In one hand, the defendant no. 2 has made out a case in the

written statement that the plaintiff the defendant could not considered

the said site from the plaintiff as the plaintiff fail to complete the site

visit on the other had from the statement of the defendant no. 2 and

from the documents it is established that the defendants have already

visited the site of 4th February, 2015. The said fact is also admitted by

the defendant during his cross examination at Question No. 177. From

the act of the defendants it proves that the defendants in connivance

with each other after obtaining all the details of the properties

including the property of Sreerampore from plaintiff have neglected the

plaintiff only to avoid to perform the contract entered between the

plaintiff and the defendant no.1. In the case reported in (2004) 6 SCC 516 (Link International &

Anr. -vs- Mandya National Paper Mills Ltd.), the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held that : In the case reported in AIR 1967 All 382 (Firm Rupram

Kailash Nath -vs- Co-operative Union, Mallawah & Anr.), the

Hon'ble Allahabad High Court held that : 17. In the present case, as mentioned above,
 the second defendant was acting within the scope
 of his authority in making the purchase of cloth
 from the plaintiff for the first defendant. If he made
 the purchase on credit and committed fraud, the
 first defendant was liable for the act of his agent.
 So far as the plaintiff was concerned, he had no
 reason to believe that the second defendant was
 not acting within the scope of his authority in
 making the purchase on credit for the first
 defendant. The court below was therefore in error
 in modifying the decree of the trial court and in
 decreeing the suit as against the second defendant
 only. The trial court has rightly decreed the suit
 against both the defendants. The appeal is allowed
 with costs, the decree of the lower appellate court
 is modified and the suit is decreed against both the
 defendants in terms of the decree passed by the
 trial court." As per the claim of the plaintiff the total area of the

Sreerampore property is measuring about 85000 Sq.Ft which is to be

let out @ Rs. 20/- per sq.ft. per month and thus the plaintiff has

suffered financial loss of Rs. 34,00,000/-. This Court held that there is

a concluded contract between the plaintiff and the defendant no.1, the

defendants are in connivance with each other have avoided to perform

the contract. It is also admitted that the defendant no.2 had entered

an agreement with the Sreerampore property and not the defendant

no.1. Though the defendants have taken the stand that the defendant

have obtained documents from the CBRE but the said documents

were also forwarded by the plaintiff to the defendant no.2 on the 71 request of the defendant no.2. The defendants have not brought any

 evidence on record to prove that the defendant no.2 has paid the

 brokerage charges to the CBRE and the defendant no.2 had entered

 into an agreement with the landlord with the help of CBRE.

 Considering the above facts and circumstances this Court finds that

 the defendants have obtained details of several properties from the

 plaintiff including the property of Sreerampore but only to avoid the

 obligation of paying the brokerage charges as well as service tax, the

 defendant no.2 directly entered into an agreement with the landlord.

 In view of the above, Issue nos. 4 to 8 are decided in favour of the

 plaintiff. e. ISSUE NOS. 9, 10 and 11 are taken up together for consideration: (Krishna Rao, J.)