SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: For RSS supporters, please tell me how a law against conversion by bribing will work?
DATE: 2022-01-22
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/sa1nvp/for_rss_supporters_please_tell_me_how_a_law/

--- POST TEXT ---

RSS says christians and muslims use foreign funds to prey on socially and economically desperate people to convert them to their faith. They say that they offer money, education or healthcare (through their minority schools and hospitals) as bribes to convert them. That they indulge in religious discrimination and prioritise their financial resources to help people of their community. Thus, according to the RSS, when someone desperately needs help, they help them only if they belong to their community or ask them to convert. They believe this is evil and wrong.

I agree completely that it is wrong and evil to prey on *desperate* people. But don't fully understand RSS's view why it is wrong to provide charity based on religious identity. 

Why is it not fair? Let's assume I give you ₹10,000 to convert, and you do so - whether you do it with genuine intent or just to get the money - should it matter to society if a law abiding person converts this way? If the intent is genuine, then you cannot question the person who is converting because he has the right to pray to anyone s/he wants, and he will be grateful to me for the ₹10,000 if he needs it. But if he is just converting for the money, then he is the one cheating me. Can I file a police complaint against him for fraud? And when it comes to bribery, the law says the person who accepts the bribe is more guilty then the person who gives it. So will anti-conversion-law-by-bribery punish both parties equally? 

Now let's consider the same situation where a person is financially desperate. 

Let us say I am an evil person who will only help people of my community. You come to me, desperately for money. I tell you that I only help people of my religion, and if you convert to my religion I will give you money and help you.

Now what? If you go to the police and complain, no law can force me to give you the money. Let's assume the law says I can't discriminate in charity based on religion - I can either give money to everyone without considering their religion, or to no one otherwise the law will punish me. Being an evil person, I refuse to obey this law and so I am put in prison. Great, evil person is in jail. But does your situation change - you still won't get any money out of me and still would be desperate.

You say it is wrong to prey on people in desperation. I agree with you completely.

But can you tell me what is the solution you propose for this specific issue of "discrimination" by religious based charitable organisation?

Keep in mind that a government cannot make a law prohibiting people or organisation from financially helping only whom they want. Otherwise, no organisation for specific cause will ever exist. 

If it is discrimination to give scholarship, through funds raised privately, on specific criteria, then doesn't every institute do this kind of "discrimination"? There are some scholarship that are only available for the disabled, some for those who excel in sport, some for those who score high marks, some for the poor, some for the sc / st, some for poor Brahmins or other community etc. etc. By your logic, are all these scholarships discriminatory too? If I want to provide a scholarship to say, dalit Hindus only, or poor muslims only, do you believe it is fair to tell me that I shouldn't? What is the right balance?

You say aid based on religious identity is discriminating and should be illegal. How will such a law work? 

Minority institutes are created by funds raised by minorities. In such minority institutes, 50% of the students are legally required to be non-minorities. So even though minorities only comprise of 20% of India, every minority school or college still educate more Hindus than people of their own community! 

**Do you believe religious charitable organisation shouldn't exist?** And that any fund they raise should compulsorily be shared with society irrespective of religion? What do you genuinely believe will be the impact if such a law comes?

I believe many religious people - whether they are Hindu or non-hindus - will stop donating money. The proof is in how much money temples, church and mosques earn, despite the fact that we can directly give this money to the needy. If people stop donating money to religious charitable organisation, then the schools and hospitals they run will stop existing. And the desperate will become even more desperate.

There are always a few evil people in every field. This is true of religious institute and political ones too. Why do you choose to judge a whole community only by the evil people in it?

And lastly, why should a government care if a *law abiding citizen*, who is economically desperate, changes his religion to get support that a government can't provide? Isn't it a "castiest Hindu" way of thinking that a person is suffering from his own karma, and so he deserves the sufferings, and thus no one should help him? Or that a suffering Hindu shouldn't convert for a better life?

Do you genuinely believe that it is the Christians and Muslims who are making people suffer first, and then offering "bribes" to these desperate people to convert?

I agree that a law against forced conversion or conversion by fraud makes some sense, when enforced without bias. I just don't get how a law against conversion by "bribing" or offering inducements, makes any sense whatsoever. Please share your views.

*(Note that I may edit and update the posts if I want to clarify something or add some other doubts or view I have)*.