This order shall dispose of afore-mentioned six writ

 petitions as the common questions of law and facts are involved

 therein. However, for facility of reference the facts are being taken

 from CWP No.387 of 2014. Vide advertisement No. 276/2012 dated 10.05.2012 the

 respondent - Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. invited

 applications for selection and appointment to various posts. These

 included 242 posts of Junior Engineers, out of which 215 posts were ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [3]

 for Junior Engineer /Electrical. Clause 6 of the advertisement dealt

 with the selection process. The eligible candidates were required to

 undergo written test and the merit was to be prepared on the basis of

 marks secured in the written test. There was to be a common test

 for J.E./ Electrical, A.P.A./ Electrical, A.J.S./Electrical, and the

 candidates applying for these posts were required to indicate the

 order of their preference of post, which would be allocated based

 upon their merit. The written test was got conducted by the respondent-

 Corporation through an independent outsource agency. A bunch of

 writ petitions including CWP No.14036 of 2012 titled as 'Major Singh

 and others Vs. P.S.P.C.L. and others' were filed alleging large

 scale bungling and cheating in the said test. Taking note of the

 allegations, the respondent-Corporation decided to annul the written

 test and hold a fresh one. In view of the said decision of the

 Corporation to re-conduct the test, the writ petition was disposed of

 on 03.04.2013. Accordingly, the respondent-Corporation issued a notice

 for re-conducting the written test for filling up the posts earlier

 advertised vide advertisement No.CRA-276/2012. As per the said ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [4]

 notice, the test for the post of Assistant Engineers was to be held on

 27.7.2013 and for the post of Junior Engineers and other posts, the

 test was to be held on 28.07.2013. Along with the notice, the

 respondents issued instructions dated 10.07.2013 (Annexure P-4).

 Clause 5 thereof stated that candidates who have applied online for

 the post for which they do not have required qualification as indicated

 in the advertisement and have filled the application form by giving

 incorrect/incomplete information and admit card has been sent to

 them by online process, shall be appearing at their own risk. Their

 application/ candidature shall be liable for rejection outright at any

 stage during and after the process of the selection. Clause 6 stated

 that candidates who had applied for the post of A.E. (OT)/Electrical,

 J.E./Electrical, A.P.A./ Electrical, A.J.S./ Electrical, but have the

 qualification/ degree in Mechanical/Instrumentation and

 Communication/ Electrical and Electronics Engineering (i.e. other

 than the degree in Electrical Engineering), in case admit cards have

 been issued to such candidates through online process, they shall be

 appearing at their own risk and that in case such cases are found

 during selection process the candidature of such candidates for all

 posts would be rejected. 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [5]

 This condition No.6, as per which candidates holding a

 degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering have been specifically

 declared to be ineligible for the post of J.E./ Electrical, has been

 impugned in the present petitions. Directions have also been prayed

 for that the respondents consider them eligible for appointment to

 the post of Junior Engineer (Electrical) by considering the degree in

 Electrical and Electronic Engineering as equivalent/ prescribed

 qualification for the above post. The detail of the qualifications of the petitioners is as

 under:- Clause 6 in the instructions (Annexure P-4) which ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [11]

 indicates otherwise is only a guideline and cannot

 supersede either the statutory rules or the advertisement.

 On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents

 has argued as under: I have heard the Ld. Counsel for the parties. The qualification for the post of Junior Engineer(Electrical)

 as per the Regulations existing at the time of issue of the

 advertisment has been reproduced in the written statement filed by

 respondent 1 & 2 and is as under: From an Institute recognized by State/ Central Govt. with
 minimum 60% marks or BE/ B Tech/ B.Sc. Engineering
 in Electrical Engg. with minimum of 60% marks or
 equivalent degree in respective discipline recognized by
 AICTE or AMIE in Electrical Engineering with atleast 60%
 marks from Institution of Engineers (India) Calcutta.

 The same qualification was prescribed for Junior

 Engineers in the advertisement as under: Auxiliary Plant from an institute recognized by 34800 +
 Attendant State/ Central Govt. with minimum 4350 Grade
 /Assistant Junior 60% marks or BE/ B.Tech. /B.Sc. Pay
 Specialist/ Engineering with a minimum of
 Supervisor- 60% marks or equivalent degree
 Instrumentation recognized by AICTE or AMIE with
 at least 60% marks from institution ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [13]

 of Engineers (India) Calcutta in the
 discipline of:- Thus, for Junior Engineer/ Auxilliary Plant Attendant/

 Assitant Junior Specialist/ Supervisor- Instrumentation, the basic

 professional qualification required was a full time regular 3/4 years

 Diploma from an institute recognized by State/ Central Govt. with

 minimum 60% marks or BE/ B.Tech. /B.Sc. Engineering with a

 minimum of 60% marks or equivalent degree recognized by AICTE or

 AMIE with at least 60% marks from Institution of Engineers (India)

 Calcutta. The advertisment further indicated that for Junior Engineer/

 Electrical, Aux. Plant Attendant/ Elect. Assistant Junior Specialist/ ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [14]

 Electrical, the requisite degree, diploma etc. (i.e., the basic

 professional qualification required) was to be in the discipline of

 Electrical Engineering. For Aux. Plant Attendant/ Mech, Asstt. Junior

 Specialist/ Mech. the basic qualification was required in the discipline

 of Mechanical Engineering. For Junior Engineer (Civil), degree

 prescribed was in Civil Engineering. It is clear from a perusal of the Regulations and the

 advertisement that for Junior Engineer (Electrical) the essential

 qualification specfied is a degree/diplima etc. in the discipline of

 Electrical Engineering. There is no provision therein that a degree/

 diploma in an equivalent discipline would also make for eligibility.

 The equivalence referred to in the main column `basic and

 professional qualification' is only in relation to a degree recognized

 by AICTE or AMIE as equivalent to BE/ B.Tech. /B.Sc. Engineering.

 This caters to a situation where the AICTE or AMIE may confer a

 degree in Engineering with a nomenclature different from BE/

 B.Tech./ B.Sc. Engineering. This equivalence has nothing to do with

 the discipline in which the Engineering degree is required. The

 specific discipline in which the degree is required is clearly specified

 against each post or group of posts and there is no equivalence ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [15]

 provision in the regard thereto. In this view of the matter, even if the degree in Electrical

 and Electronic Engineering is to be considered as equivalent to a

 degree in Electrical Engineering that would not further the cause of

 the petitioners in view of the settled legal position that the employer

 can insist on a strict and literal adherence to the qualifications

 prescribed in the statute and the advertisement and the absence of

 any provision therein making those possessing an equivalent

 qualification also eligible, would foreclose any claim of those

 possessing equivalent or even higher qualification for appointment to

 the said post. In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of a

 Full Bench of this Court in Som Dutt vs. State of Haryana and

 another , 1984(1) ILR (Punjab) 400, wherein, it was observed as

 under:- This view has been reaffirmed in subsequent decisions of

 this Court. But the matter does not rest here. As has been stated in

 the replication filed by the petitioners, on their representation the

 matter was got examined by the Corporation and a Committee was

 constituted to consider the equivalence of Electrical and Electronic

 Engineering with Electrical Engineering for the post of Assistant

 Engineer (O.T.)/ Electrical to be applicable for future recruitment. The

 Committee after a detailed study concluded that Electrical

 Engineering and Electrical & Electronic Engineering can be ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [19]

 considered equivalent to the maximum extent for all intents and

 purposes and will fully fulfil the requirement of PSPCL for which it

 recruits Assistant Engineer (Electrical) and recommended that the

 same may be considered for future recruitment. Thereafter, the

 Board vide agenda item No.50 dated 30.01.2014 took a conscious

 decision to amend the Recruitment Rules making holders of degree

 in Electrical and Electronic Engineering eligible for the post of

 Assistant Engineer/ Electrical and also Junior Engineer (Electrical).

 The Regulations have accordingly been amended and in the

 subsequent advertisement dated 4.9.2014 issued by the Corporation

 inviting applications for recruitment to the post of Assistant Engineer

 (OT)/ Electrical, the degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering

 has been recognized as a qualification for the post. It is this decision, which comes to the rescue of the

 petitioners. Though the decision/ amendment has been specifically

 made applicable to subsequent recruitments, but the statutory

 recognition of equivalence needs to be given full effect to and the

 petitioners cannot be denied the benefit thereof. The minutes of the meeting of the committee constituted ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [20]

 by the respondent corporation reveals that the committee compared

 the core subjects which pertain exclusively to Electrical Engineering

 and are studied in the basic Electrical Engineering with the courses

 studied in Electrical & Electronic Engineering. It found that Thapar

 University imparts four years course only in Basic Electrical

 Engineering, whereas, Punjab University offers degree only in

 Electrical & Electronic Engineering. Punjab Technical University

 offers degree in both the disciplines. As Thapar University is one of

 the premier Engineering Institutes in the country, the Committee

 proceeded by taking the subjects pertaining to basic Electrical

 Engineering offered by Thapar University as base for comparison. It

 was concluded that the Electrical & Electronic Engineering course

 offered by Punjab Technical University & Punjab University include

 almost all the subjects that are offered by Thapar University in its

 basic Electrical Engineering course barring few very exceptions.

 Accordingly, it was concluded that Electrical Engineering and

 Electrical & Electronic Engineering can be considered to be

 equivalent to the maximum extent for all intents and purposes. At this stage, it may be relevant to note that a Division

 Bench of Delhi High Court in W.P.(C) 6100/2012 titled Ms. Nisha vs. ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [21]

 Union of India and others, decided on November 26, 2012 had

 examined this issue earlier and concluded that Electrical and

 Electronic Engineering is not only equivalent with Electrical

 Engineering but is also a little deeper course in that it not only

 subsumes the entire Electrical Course but also imparts something

 extra. The relevant observations of the Court are as under:- Before proceeding any further it may be mentioned that

 one consequence of the decision of the Corporation to grant

 equivalence to the degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering

 with Electrical Engineering and the subsequent amendment of the

 regulations is that a major objection of the Ld. Counsel for the

 respondent Corporation that the petitioners have not challenged the

 regulations and the advertisement and that having participated in the

 exam they cannot be permitted to impugn the conditions lose all ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [23]

 significance. Ld. Counsel for the respondents has also argued that the

 petitioners cannot be given the benefit of this decision which would

 be applicable to future recruitments. He has stressed that extending

 the benefit of this to the petitioners would be illegal, inequitable and

 be a fraud on the others who possessed the degree in Electrical and

 Electronic Engineering but did not apply for the post as the

 advertisement expressly made them ineligible. In the this regard,

 reference has been made to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in District Collector and Chairman Vizianagaram (Social

 Welfare Residential School Society) vs. M.Tripura Sundari

 Devi , 1990(3) SCC 655. In particular to the following observations

 have been relied upon: In my view the said judgment would not be applicable to

 the facts of this case. In that case the qualification prescribed for a

 Grade I and Grade II Teacher (Post Graduate Teacher and Trained

 Graduate Teacher) was a second class degree in M.A. The petitioner

 therein had passed M.A. in the third division and was wrongly

 offered appointment. But when on checking of her certificates, she

 was found to be ineligible having passed in the third division instead

 of the second division required, she was refused appointment. She

 approached the Administrative Tribunal which passed an order

 directing the authorities to appoint her. One of the reasons given by

 the Tribunal was that there was no other candidate available who had

 better marks. The Hon'ble Supreme Court set aside order of the

 Tribunal by observing, that in the circumstances, the observation of

 the Tribunal that no other candidate with better marks was available

 was at best a half truth, because the candidates who had secured a

 third division had not applied in view of the condition in the ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [25]

 advertisement that only candidates having second division were

 eligible. It was in this context that the Hon'ble Supreme Court made

 the observation extracted above which has been relied on by the Ld.

 Counsel for the respondent-corporation. The said observation may not be attracted in the present

 case. Here, it is not a case of a person with inferior qualification being

 considered eligible. When the Corporation arrived at the conclusion

 that Electrical Engineering and Electrical & Electronic Engineering

 can be considered equivalent, and accordingly amended the

 regulations, it only recognized an existing fact. This was not akin to

 lowering the qualifications than those prescribed in the advertisement

 or appointing those not qualified like in the case before the Supreme

 Court. No doubt, there may be a number of persons who had

 the degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, but did not apply

 in view of the stipulation that only persons possessing a degree in

 Electrical Engineering were eligible. But the petitioners were the

 valiant ones, who convinced of the justice of their cause, ventured to

 challenge the condition and simultaneously waged a two pronged

 battle, one by approaching the Court and secondly pursuing their ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [26]

 representation with the respondent- Corporation. The Corporation

 has now vindicated their stand holding that the two qualifications are

 equivalent and amended the regulations for future. The part that the

 Corporation has left undone the Court is impelled to do i.e., extend

 the benefit of the equivalence and the resultant eligibility to the

 petitioners. In my view, the benefit of the decision of the Corporation

 legitimately accrues to the petitioners. What the respondent

 Corporation, in effect has done, is not to alter the qualifications for the

 posts. If it were so, then it could surely be made applicable only for

 future recruitments. But what has been done is only to declare,

 confirm and recognise the equivalence which already existed in fact

 and thereby bring the regulations in accord therewith. Thus, in fact,

 the petitioners were eligible when they applied and the mere fact that

 this recognition came later ought not to work to their prejudice.

 Accordingly, I hold that the petitioners are liable to be treated as

 eligible for the posts. No doubt, in an ideal situation the benefit of the

 equivalence now granted ought to have been extended to all the

 candidates similarly placed as the petitioners i.e., who could have

 applied for the posts advertised vide CRA-276/2012 dated 10.5.2012 ATUL KUMAR TRIPATHI 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [27]

 but did not apply because of the stipulation in the advertisement

 regarding qualification. But the march of events cannot be reversed.

 The clock cannot be set back. The test was held on 27/28.07.2013,

 the result whereof has been announced and presumably the selected

 candidates have been appointed. But by interim orders passed in

 CWPs No.387, 4980, 10087, 21012 and 21646 of 2014 posts in the

 respective categories of the petitioners have been ordered to be kept

 vacant. In these circumstances, it is but fair that the benefit of the

 interim orders enures to the petitioners in these cases. The argument

 of the respondents that a written examination be conducted for these

 reserved posts, wherein, all the candidates who possessed the

 degree of Electrical and Electronic Engineering on the date of

 advertisement be permitted to participate would not be fair and

 equitable in the circumstances, as such candidates had neither

 applied in response to the advertisement nor challenged the condition

 in a court of law. But fairness and equality of treatment would require

 that the benefit be extended to all such candidates who like the

 petitioners possess the degree of Electrical and Electronic

 Engineering and had taken the test on 27/28.7.2013, even though

 they may not have filed writ petitions. 2015.05.30 10:41 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CWP-387-2014 & connected matters [28]

 Accordingly, the petitions are disposed of with the

 following directions: