1. By way of this petition under Section 438 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973, the petitioner has prayed to release
her on anticipatory bail in case of her arrest in connection with
the FIR registered as C.R.No.05 of 2023 registered with A.C.B
Police Station, Gandhinagar for the offence punishable under section 7 , 12 , 13(1)(A) , 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act and
under section 406 , 420 and 114 of Indian Penal Code. 2. Brief facts of the case are as under :- Apart from that the petitioner has not played any active or
passive role in commission of offence. Learned advocate for the
petitioner further submitted that prior to registration of FIR, the
petitioner was called by the police multiple times. She has joined
inquiry and co-operated in the investigation even before
registration of FIR. He would further submit that the petitioner
has not demanded any gratification nor accepted bribe money
and not caught red handed with bribe money. In this
circumstances, offence under Prevention of Corruption Act is not
made out against the petitioner. He would further submit that
when no offence of Prevention of Corruption Act is made out
against the petitioner, bare offence under section 406 and 420 of
IPC remains and except that there is no other offence against the
petitioner. It is submitted that at earlier point of time, the Page 2 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 04 20:45:43 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18955/2023 ORDER DATED: 04/12/2023

 undefined

petitioner was called for voice spectrography and test of LVA by
Investigating Officer. The petitioner has co-operated with the
investigation and given LVA test. This prima facie prove nature
and character of the petitioner. The petitioner is ready and
willing to join investigation. The petitioner is permanent resident
of Gandhinagar. She has no past antecedent and there is no
flight risk as her entire family resides in Gandhinagar. Thus, he
would submit to enlarge the petitioner on pre-arrest bail. 4. On the other hand, learned APP would submit that the
petitioner has played role of middleman or tout. She has firstly
introduced complainant - Maulikaben to principle accused -
Naynaben and she has also talked with the victim and
demanded money on behalf of Naynaben confirming bribe
money. There are several audio clips taken by the Investigating
Officer in the investigation. Voice spectrography test confirms
voice of the petitioner in the audio clip. In that circumstances, it
appears that the petitioner has played active role in commission
of offence. He would submit that main accused - Nainaben did
not get regular bail from the learned Sessions Court and she has
withdrawn bail application from High Court of Gujarat as well.
Thus, considering this aspect, he would submit that the
petitioner may not be enlarged on bail as custodial interrogation
is necessary. 5. Having heard learned advocates for both the sides, at the
outset it is to be noted that exchange of bribe may not be
essential requirement to be prosecuted under the Prevention of
Corruption Act . Public servant may not get gratification directly Page 3 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 04 20:45:43 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18955/2023 ORDER DATED: 04/12/2023

 undefined

but through middleman or tout. Public servant who plays role of
middleman or tout can also be prosecuted under the provision of Prevention of Corruption Act when prima facie it is proved that
he / she has played active role in facilitating main accused to
take bribe. On reading the FIR on record, it appears that the
petitioner has played active role. She has introduced
complainant to principle accused - Naynaben. Complainant
intended to secure government job as Nurse. To be noted that
the present petitioner is also Government servant. She was fully
knowing that government job of Nurse cannot be directly
available. Government job can be obtained only through
competent examination etc. or by following procedure laid down
therein. Yet the petitioner played active role as middleman or
tout for the part of main accused - Naynaben. Exactly this role of
petitioner is coming from the bare reading of FIR which also
includes script of audio clip. Investigation papers indicate that
as per FSL report, voice of the petitioner matches with the voice
coming in the audio clip. In view of such aspect, contention of
learned advocate for the petitioner that the petitioner has not
demanded bribe or not accepted bribe cannot be accepted. It is
merit-less and out-rightly rejected. 6. At this stage, I may refer to judgment of this Court in the
case of Bharatbhai Somabhai Patni v/s. State of Gujarat [2018
(0) JX (Guj) 1031. In para 31, it is held as under :- 7. I am also refer to judgment of this Court in the case of
Rajesh Chandulal Shah v/s. State of Gujarat [2019 (3) GLR
1898]. In para 15, it is held as under :- 8. I am also refer to recent judgment of the Hon'ble Apex
Court in the case of CBI v/s. Santosh Karnani [2023 Scale (6)
250] wherein it is held as under :- 9. Considering script of audio clip in FIR, it appears that the
petitioner has played active role and introduced complainant to
principle accused. The petitioner has not played lesser role than
principle accused more particularly when she was knowing fully
well that Government job cannot be secured by any person but
by government itself after following due procedure. What more
appears that systematic scam headed by principle accused -
Naynaben was running to dupe amount from service aspirant.
Present petitioner is part thereof to play role of middleman or
tout. Petitioner is integral part of well designed racket. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/18955/2023 ORDER DATED: 04/12/2023

 undefined 10. The Court cannot be oblivious to the fact that corruption is
rampant in the country and it erodes basic foundation of
democracy. The reasons stated herein above indicate that the
petitioner has no case to call for extraordinary relief of
anticipatory bail. Considering the role of the petitioner along
with gravity of offence, the petitioner cannot be granted pre-
arrest bail. Resultantly, the petition is rejected. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
SATISH Page 7 of 7 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 04 20:45:43 IST 2023