By Honble Mrs. Meera Chhibber, Member (J)

	Applicant has challenged order dated 18.2.2009 wherein respondents have explained the delay in issuance of charge sheet dated 18.2.2009 (page 25). He has also challenged the charge sheet dated 30.7.2007 on the ground of inordinate and unexplained delay. It is stated by the applicant that a show cause notice was issued to as many as 45 persons under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962 on 24.8.2001 with regard to smuggling of Chinese silk but applicants name did not figure in the said list of 45 persons. It was only on 20.7.2007 that a vague charge-sheet was issued to the applicant (page 16). Applicant gave a representation but applicants representation was not even considered by the respondents, therefore, he challenged the charge-sheet by filing OA No. 1473/2008. The said OA was disposed of on 23.12.2008 (page 239 at 249) with a direction to the respondents to consider the contention of the applicant with regard to inordinate and unexplained delay and pass reasoned order within 2 weeks. The respondents have in the impugned order stated that there is no delay because investigation report was submitted by the CBI on 27.4.2004 who recommended prosecution against number of officers. Similarly Directorate General of Revenue Intelligence have separately submitted their investigation report. Based on these two reports, the Directorate General of Vigilance, Customs and Central Excise, New Delhi, in consultation with CVC had recommended departmental proceedings against number of officers including the applicant. 2.	It is submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that all these facts were known to the respondents as back as in 2001 when they had issued show cause notice to other officers under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962 and no new material had come to the notice of the respondents, therefore, the delay has not been explained properly by the respondents. The charge-sheet is, therefore, liable to be quashed on the ground of inordinate and unexplained delay itself. Even otherwise the charge is absolutely vague and there is no iota of evidence against the applicant inasmuch as the star witness of respondents, namely, Shri R.N. Zutshi in his statement had not even taken the name of applicant though he had taken names of other officers who were involved in helping the smuggling of Chinese silk without checking the same properly. He also submitted that applicant is due to retire in 2010, therefore, this charge sheet has definitely caused prejudice to the applicant. 3.	Respondents on the other hand have opposed this OA. They have stated correctness of the charges cannot be looked into by the Tribunal as it is beyond the scope of judicial review. The delay in serving the charge-sheet has occurred because investigation took considerable time at various stages, due to which culprits could not be identified at the earliest as the investigation was first conducted by the DRI and then by CBI. Moreover, charge sheet in each case cannot be quashed on the ground of delay unless prejudice is shown before the Inquiry Officer. In the present case there are serious charges against the applicant and while considering the request for quashing the charge sheet, court has to consider the nature of charge, its complexity and the ground of delay. So unless long delay is explained charge-sheet cannot be quashed. Delay has not been fatal in this case and in any case enquiry would only help the applicant to defend himself by producing the evidence and witnesses in his favour. 4.	Moreover, in the Ist OA applicants other contentions were not accepted. Court had only directed the respondents to consider the aspect of inordinate delay, therefore, this Tribunal now only has to see whether the delay has been properly explained by the respondents or not. They have also stated that similar other OAs bearing No. 340/2008 Dal Singh Vs. U.O.I. and Others , 1916/2007 Shyopat Singh Vs. U.O.I. and Others and 732/2006 Rajeev Gupta Vs. U.O.I. & Others have been dismissed by this Tribunal, therefore, the OA may be dismissed. 5.	We have heard both the counsel and perused the pleadings. Applicant had earlier filed OA No.1473/2008 for challenging the charge sheet dated 30.7.2007 which was decided on 23.12.2008. It is relevant to note that this Tribunal had disposed off the OA with the following observations:- 6.	In view of above the contention of the counsel that charge-sheet is vague or no misconduct is made out against the applicant cannot be looked into now because there is already a finding returned by the bench in the Ist OA which reads as under:- 7.	In above backdrop, let us examine the contention of the learned counsel for the applicant. It is submitted by the learned counsel that the scam was already known to the respondents in 2001 itself when show cause notice was issued to as many as 45 persons under Section 124 of the Customs Act, 1962. No new material has come on record after 2001 which can justify the delay. However, perusal of the reply and record show that after show cause notice was issued to others in 2001, the matter was investigated by the CBI who gave their report only on 27.4.2004 whereby they recommended that action should be taken against other officers also. Applicants name figured in this report as he was stated to be functioning as Superintendent (P) on 12.6.2000, 4.7.2000 and 10.7.2000, when accused Olga Kozireva and Nazira Ibragimova arrived at IGI Airport. CBI, after examining the facts, has commented that on 12.6.2000, accused Olga was adjudicated only for 4400 mts whereas she actually brought 35420 mts. Of Chinese silk, which led to a wrongful loss to the public exchequer of Rs. 12,83,437/-. It is further revealed that on 4.7.2000 and 10.7.2000 also, the same accused brought Chinese Silk 820 Kg. and 1220 Kg. respectively. She was allowed to go through the green Channel without paying any duty whatsoever. This led to a wrongful loss of Rs.1495879/- to the public exchequer. 8.	From above, it is clear that applicants involvement in smuggling of silk scam came to the notice of respondent for the Ist time in end of April, 2004. Respondents have explained that after the report of CBI was received, the matter was placed before the Directorate General of Vigilance, Customs and Central Excise, who in consultation with CVC recommended that disciplinary proceedings should be initiated against the officers mentioned in the CBI report. Thereafter Commissioner of Central Excise, who is the disciplinary authority of applicant co-ordinated the matter with customs authorities as the case was initially booked by the customs authority. Moreover, DGRI and CBI had to be consulted before preparation of draft charge-sheet as investigations were carried out by them. The documents had also to be procured from Commissionerate of Customs (I&G), New Delhi. All this took time. 9.	From above narration, it is clear that the case was initially booked by Customs Department in 2001 whereas applicant was in the Central Excise. His name came in the picture only on 27.4.2004 when CBI gave its report. Thereafter various agencies had to be consulted and documents were required to be collected. Naturally, all this would have taken some time. The charge sheet was issued to the applicant on 30.7.2007, therefore, even though there may be slight delay in issuing the charge sheet but it cannot be termed as inordinate. Since delay has been explained, it cannot even be termed as unexplained delay. The law is well settled that so long delay is explained, charge-sheet cannot be quashed. 10.	On the question of inordinate and unexplained delay Honble Supreme Court has held as under in State of Andhra Pradesh Vs. N. Radhakishan reported in JT 1998 (3) SC 123:- 11.	Perusal of the above judgment shows that court has to examine the facts of each case and see whether delay has been explained and whether any prejudice is caused to the employee. It is also required to see how much disciplinary authority is serious in pursuing the charges against the employee. Moreover, nature of charge, complexity and the reason of delay has also to be examined. 12.	In Government of Andhra Pradesh and Others Vs. V. Appalaswamy reported in 2007 (14) SCC 49 the question before Honble Supreme Court was whether High Court was justified in quashing the disciplinary proceedings and issuing a direction to the applicant to pay all pensionary benefits only on the ground of delay in concluding the enquiry. It was held by Honble Supreme Court as follows:- 13.	It is thus clear that judicial intervention at the stage of charge sheet is unwarranted. 14.	Perusal of above judgments would show that mere delay cannot be a ground to quash the charge-sheet. In the instant case admittedly charge-sheet was issued on 30.7.2007 which was challenged by the applicant by filing OA No. 1473/2008. While disposing of the OA this Tribunal had directed to keep the enquiry in abeyance till his representation is decided. The representation was decided on 18.2.2009 which was again challenged by the applicant by filing the present OA. Once again on the request of the applicant this Tribunal had restrained the respondents from proceeding further in the enquiry vide order dated 23.3.2009 which is continuing till date, therefore, it cannot be stated that respondents have condoned the lapses on the part of the employee. 15.	As far as prejudice is concerned, in Appalaswamys case (Supra), Honble Supreme Court has clearly held that it should be demonstrated before the Inquiry Officer. Even otherwise the only contention raised before us by the learned counsel for the applicant was that applicant is due to retire in 2010. Applicant is himself responsible for the delay after issuance of charge-sheet because he had taken stay otherwise the enquiry could have been completed, therefore, this contention has no merit. We however feel that since applicant is due to retire in 2010, this enquiry should be completed expeditiously subject to applicants co-operation. 16.	OA stands disposed of with the above direction. No costs.