This is a suit for recovery of money. 2. Brief facts of the plaintiffs case is that,the
defendant is engaged in the Real estate business in
and the city of Bengaluru and have advertised
extensively to attract people offering Luxury Villa for
sale under the name and style of "THE VILLAGIO" a 3 O.S.No.4754/2019 Mediterranean Exclusive villa, constructed and
developed by the SRK infra projects Private Limited,
at Whitefield, Bengaluru and the plaintiff who was
desperately looking for purchase of the villa for his
personal use in the same locality and lured by the
advertisement and after verifying the E-Brochure the
plaintiff had approached the defendant for purchasing
the villa. After going through the E-Brochure and cost
sheet, the plaintiff has negotiated for purchase of villa
No.8, B type in the said project and the total cost of
the said villa is Rs. 2,50,00,000/-. The villa having a
super built up area of 3850 square feet and the
plaintiff has requested the defendant to furnish the
title deeds and other relevant documents pertaining
to the villa to enable him to have it verified and to get
legal due diligence report from the advocate, for
which the defendant has insisted sum of
Rs.10,00,000/- as an advance for furnishing the entire
set of documents and other requirements for
purchasing the villa and the plaintiff has paid sum of
Rs.10,00,000/- by way of cheque bearing No.107265,
dated 13/12/2016, drawn on state Bank Of India,
Koramangala Branch, Bengaluru in favor of Brindavan
Builders & Developers, the defendant herein towards
advance for the purchase of the Villa. 3. It is further submitted that, at the time of the
issuing of the cheque for a sum of Rs.10,00,000/- the
defendant and one Mr. Amarjeet, sales
Representative of the defendant have made a
promise that until the confirmation from the plaintiff,
they would not present the cheque in the bank and
after verifying the documents and other terms and
conditions for purchasing the Villa, if the plaintiff is
satisfied with the documents of title and the terms
and conditions and after due confirmation from the
plaintiff, then only the cheque issued by the plaintiff
would be would be presented to the bank for which
the plaintiff has consented. However, inspite of the
promise made by them, the defendant intentionally
and deliberately has presented the cheque issued by
the plaintiff without consulting him nor obtaining his
consent, to their bankers for encasement which was
honoured on its presentation on 16/12/2016 and the
defendant got encased the cheque issued by the
plaintiff. It is further submitted that, even after
receipt of Rs.10,00,000/- through the Cheque issued
by the plaintiff, the Defendant has not furnished any
documents for the verification and did not provide
any information about their terms and conditions for
purchasing the Villa to the plaintiff though the said 5 O.S.No.4754/2019 documents are essentially required by the plaintiff for
the decision making to purchase the Villa. The cost of
which is Rs. 2,50,00,000/- and after repeated
request and demands to the opposite party had not
furnished any documents as promised and the
defendant has not responded to the calls made by
the plaintiff as also in person in an appropriate way.
The plaintiff submits that he has learnt from reliable
sources that there is a deviation of club house plan
and sensing foul play, the plaintiff decided to cancel
the Villa booked by him and has sent an e-mail to the
defendant seeking cancellation of the booking of
the Villa and requested the defendant to refund the
amount paid by him. 4. It is further submitted that, the Defendant has
confirmed cancellation of the Villa by mail
19.12.2016. The plaintiff further submits that inspite
of cancellation of the booking of the Villa, the
Defendant has not refunded the amount to the
plaintiff till this day and further the Defendant has
sent an e-mail to the plaintiff on 24.01.2017
stating that they would repay the amount with the
standard deductions of 10% from the booking
amount, 12 weeks after they are able to sell the Villa 6 O.S.No.4754/2019 B which amounts to admission on the part of the
defendant agreeing to refund the money paid by the
plaintiff. The plaintiff further wishes to state
that, the defendant has not informed all these things
at the time of negotiations for the purchase of Villa
and also at the time of issuance of Cheque. Further,
the Defendant has not provided any information for
cancellation policy at the time of issuance of the
Cheque and the plaintiff has not signed any
documents, accepting the above terms and
conditions and the plaintiff is completely kept at dark
and is not aware of the terms and conditions. Even at
the time of issuance of the cheque, the Defendant
has not issued any allotment letter to the plaintiff for
booking the Villa or the booking form or payment
receipt. 5. It is further submitted that, the Defendant has
promised and assured the plaintiff that in the event if
the plaintiff is not satisfied with the terms and
conditions of the booking of the Villa or after going
through all the documents, only after due
confirmation, the cheque issued by the plaintiff would
be presented to the bank otherwise, the defendant
promised the plaintiff that they will return the 7 O.S.No.4754/2019 Cheque. In spite of the promises and assurances, the
defendant has presented the cheque for encasement
and after the cancellation of the Villa, the
Defendant is not ready to refund the amount paid by
the plaintiff which amounts to an act of cheating. The
defendant has cheated the plaintiff by making false
promises. Now the plaintiff is running pillar to post
and post to pillar to recover the amount which is paid
to the defendant. The defendant intentionally did not
provide any documents of title relating to the
property and failed to furnish their terms and
conditions for the purchase of villa to the plaintiff
hitherto and the plaintiff has been taken for a ride. It
is further submitted that, the plaintiff got issued legal
notice dated 20.02.2017 through speed post
Acknowledgment due, Registered post
Acknowledgment due and through courier, detailing
the amount with interest due to be paid by the
defendant. The notices sent by speed post with
Acknowledgment due and RPAD and also by courier
were duly served on the defendant. The defendant
has played fraud upon the plaintiff and failed to
refund the amount to the plaintiff even to this day
inspite of repeated requests made by the plaintiff.
That the opposite party are engaged in unfair trade 8 O.S.No.4754/2019 practices, Which is against the law, in-spite of
repeated requests and demand the opposite party
has not ready to refunded the amount which is paid
them. He plaintiff has paid his hard earned money
with an ambition to purchase of a villa with the
defendant. However, the defendant has intentionally
deceived the plaintiff by not providing documents of
title to the property and by not refunding the amount
even after cancellation of the booking. Hence, the
defendant is liable to pay a total sum of
Rs.17,16,610/-. Hence, this suit. 6. After receipt of the suit summons, the defendant
appeared through his counsel and filed written
statement and wherein which they totally denied
entire plaint averment in toto and contended that the
suit is not maintainable either in law or on facts and
there is no cause of action against the defendants. It
is further submitted the suit was filed by plaintiff is in
the year 2019 and later the same was dismissed for
non- prosecution on 15.03.2021 and after restoration
of order passed in miscellaneous petition the suit was
reopened and notice came to be served on the
defendant recently i.e., in the year 2024 and as such
if at all the plaintiff succeeds in the above suit he is 9 O.S.No.4754/2019 not entitled for interest from the date of filing of the
suit to until February 2024 since for the negligence of
plaintiff this defendant should not suffer and plaintiff
is put up strict proof of the same. 7. It is further submitted that, Defendant herein is
one of the reputed developers in Bengaluru and
carries the huge reputation of fare business in the
field of Real-estate. Plaintiff approached the
defendant with an intention to buy a Villa after going
through website of defendant and e-broacher
uploaded therein. Plaintiff selected Villa No. 8 which
was also selected by another client of defendant on
the same day itself and further plaintiff is also aware
of the fact that other client of defendant who was
selected Villa No.8 was ready to pay the 30% of the
total sale consideration within a week, as the
discussions were took place in front of plaintiff only. It
is further submitted that, at that the stage plaintiff
requested the defendant not to commit with the other
clients as he has decided to purchase Villa No.8 and
he further informed that he would like to take legal
opinion fro his advocate regarding the titles of the
property. That for the said request of the plaintiff the
defendant agreed and issued the legal set of 10 O.S.No.4754/2019 documents for the scrutiny. After being satisfied with
the title plaintiff booked Villa No.8 and requested for
some time to mobilize the funds to enter into sale
agreement. The defendant was not all interested in
selling the Villa to plaintiff, as he was having better
offer from the other clients. But as plaintiff was so
interested in buying the Villa, the defendant made up
the mind to sell the Villa to plaintiff for sum of
Rs.2,50,00,000/- for which plaintiff agreed. 8. It is further submitted that, after being satisfied
with the title of property, Bank approvals,
development of the layout and construction of the
Club house & amenities, the plaintiff blocked the
Villa-8 B type and agreed to pay 20% of the sale
consideration within a week and for balance sale
consideration he will go for the bank loan, to which
defendant agreed and blocked the Villa-8 in the name
of plaintiff on 11.12.2016 and issued the allotment
letter and as well as cancellation policy also. After two
days, plaintiff came back with a new story & with
sorry face pleading that, it is not possible for him to
mobilize the fund more than Rs. 10,00,000/- and
requested to extended the time to pay the balance
Advance amount. That for the said request of plaintiff, 11 O.S.No.4754/2019 defendant agreed and extended time for another one
week and received the cheque of Rs.10,00,000/- and
deposited for realization as per his instructions. Even
after the extended time plaintiff failed to pay the
balance advance sale consideration. That in this
regard the defendant requested the defendant
several times to pay the advance sale consideration
as good gesture and to enter into a sale agreement
as to Villa No.8 was ready for occupation. It is
submitted that the defendant did not even brother to
respond to the calls of the sale representatives of
defendant. It is further submitted that, strangely,
after some time the plaintiff started to bargain for the
lesser price which was clearly declined by defendant
as he has lost the opportunity to sell the Villa No.8 to
Mr. Ashok Bhat who was ready to purchase the same
Villa for the better price. 9. It is further submitted that, when the defendant
declined to reduce the price, the plaintiff started to
put the pressure taking advantage of demonization
and informed that, if he cancels the booking, the
defendant will not be able to sell the Villa, till the
situation is improved, but the defendant clearly
informed that, they will not sell the Villa for lesser 12 O.S.No.4754/2019 price, even if plaintiff cancel the booking. The
plaintiff on his own free will and for the reason of non-
mobilizing the amount as agreed opted to cancel the
booking and requested to repay the advance amount
for which the defendant obliged and agreed to cancel
the booking and will repay the amount by deducting
10% of the advance amount towards the
documentation and administration charges after the
sale of the Villa No.8. 10. It is further submitted that, even though the
defendant has lost the business opportunity, which
has caused huge loss to him, still he has obliged to
repay the advance amount by deducting the nominal
amount of 10% of the advance sale consideration, on
sale of Villa No.8, That when defendant stated that he
will deduct 10% of the amount the plaintiff shown
negative approach and all of a sudden started to
state, there is deviation in the club house, which is
nothing to do with the title of the Villa. That as on the
date plaintiff decided to purchase the Villa, the club
house & amenities were almost completed and he
has visited several times and personally inspected
the development and construction of the Villa and
Club-House. After being satisfied he issued the 13 O.S.No.4754/2019 cheque of Rs.10,00,000/-. Moreover, it is specifically
mentioned in the broachers of the project that the
Club is subject to changes as per Developer
discretion. Knowing fully well about the said fact on
the basis of concocted stories the Plaintiff sent
registered legal notice through his advocate on
20.02.2017 for which this Defendant issued suitable
reply on 25.02.2017. That inspite of that the Plaintiff
has approached this court which viewed from any
angle cannot be sustainable in the eye of law and as
such the same is liable to be dismissed on heavy
costs. That there is no lacuna on the part of this
Defendant and even till date as agreed after
deducting 10% of he amounts they are ready to repay
the amount to Plaintiff and they are not at all liable to
pay any interest as claimed by Plaintiff since the
entire fault is on him. In view from any angle the suit
of the Plaintiff is not at all maintainable and entire
case of the Plaintiff even after his own willful
negligence and lack of capacity to mobilize the funds
has filed the suit on the basis of clever drafting and
illusory stories and as such the same is not at all
maintainable. Hence, prays to dismiss the suit. 11. In support of the case of plaintiff, the plaintiff
himself got examined as P.W.1 and got marked
documents at Ex.P.1 to Ex.P6. 12. Heard the arguments. 13. On the above pleading of the parties, my
predecessor in office has framed the following Issues: 14. After hearing arguments and considering the
oral and documentary evidence on record, my
findings on the above issues are here under: together for discussion, since they are interconnected
with each other and so also they require common
discussion. 16. I am of the opinion that, I need not repeat the
contention raised by the plaintiff here also, since I
have already narrated the inception of this judgment. 17. Again I repeat, to substantiate their contentions
the plaintiff has adduced evidence. 18. The plaintiff filed suit for money recovery. 19. The plaintiff counsel vehemently argued that
the defendant is engaged in the real estate business
and advertised extensively to attract people offering
luxury Villa for sale under the name and style "THE
VILLAGIO" and the plaintiff was in search of Villa,
after verifying the E-brochure the plaintiff approached
the defendant for the purchase of Villa. 20. The plaintiff counsel further submitted that after
going through it and its cost, the plaintiff negotiated
for the purchase of Villa No.8, 'B' Type in the said
project for a cost of Rs.2,50,00,000/- having super
built up area of 3850 sq. feet and requested to furnish
title deeds to verify and get legal opinion for which
defendant insisted to pay a sum of Rs.10 lakhs as an
advance and plaintiff had paid Rs.10 lakhs by way of
cheque on 13.12.2016 and the defendant have made 17 O.S.No.4754/2019 promise that until the confirmation from the plaintiff
they would not present to the bank but the defendant
intentionally presented on 16.12.2016 without
consulting and getting consent from the plaintiff and
encashed the cheque. The defendant had not
furnished title documents for verification and did not
provide their terms and conditions. 21. The plaintiff counsel further submitted that
there is a deviation of club house plan and sensing
foul play, the plaintiff decided to cancell the Vill
booked by him and sent email on 19.12.2016 to the
defendant seeking cancellation of booking and
requested to refund the amount. But the defendant
not refunded the amount to plaintiff. The defendant
had sent an email to the plaintiff on 24.01.2017
stating that they would repay the amount with the
standard deductions of 10% from the booking amount
and these facts were not informed to the plaintiff but
they negotiated and issued the cheque and plaintiff
had not signed any documents agreeing the terms
and conditions. 22. It is pertinent to note that defendant had cross
examined PW.1 but not adduced any evidence of 18 O.S.No.4754/2019 defendant or rebuttal evidence and not addressed
their arguments to the present suit. 23. To prove the case of the plaintiff he himself
examined as PW.1 and produced 6 documents which
are marked as Ex.P1 to P6. 24. It is pertinent to note that, defendant also
admitted that he had received Rs.10,00,000/- from
the plaintiff through cheque. It is also admitted that
plaintiff had cancelled the oral agreement. These
facts suggested by the defendant counsel to the PW.1
and the PW.1 deposed in cross examination as
follows: To prove this contention defendant had not produced
any documents for the same. 25. The plaintiff has produced Ex.P3. The plaintiff
has cancelled the booking on 19.12.2016. But as per
Ex.P4 email sent by the defendant attaching
cancellation norm and rules on 24.01.2017. It means
they sent this norms and rules to the plaintiff after
the plaintiff cancelled the agreement. It is pertinent
to note that there is no written agreement or any
email communication stating that there was 20 O.S.No.4754/2019 agreement between both the parties and there was
such norms and rules of the defendant and it was
agreed by the plaintiff and signed for the same. When
there is no such written assent or acceptance from
the plaintiff then the plaintiff is not bound by any
norms and rules of the defendants cancellation norms
rules. If any cancellation norms and rules are there
but it is nor applicable to the plaintiff as the
defendant failed to prove that the plaintiff agreed to
the same. The defendant also failed to prove his
contentions. 26. The defendant had taken contention that the
plaintiff was inable and not in a capacity to pay
balance amount. But the defendant failed to prove
the same. 27. Thus, plaintiff proved his case by producing cogent
relevant evidence through oral and documentary
evidence which was not rebutted by the defendant.
Hence, I answer the above Issue No.1 & 2 in the
Affirmative and Issue No.3 Partly in the Affirmative. 28. Issue No.4 : In view of the findings on the
above issue No.1 to 3, I proceed to pass the
following :