SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Insurance fraud and how I was saved from it.
DATE: 2023-09-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16mnibw/insurance_fraud_and_how_i_was_saved_from_it/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tldr:
Fraudster called me saying a policy of mine is on lapse, so pay 1.25 lakhs to activate it and get 3 lakhs in Jan.

Background :
I lost my father when we were least expecting it 6 months ago. So we had no knowledge of his financials and last 6 months we are settling all the transactions that are due.

2 weeks back a family friend (also insurance agent) called me to tell that there is an insurance policy that my father did not collect from her, so I can come and make the claim. This was genuine case, I filled the form got done and dusted.

The fraud:

Now someone calls from hdfc life and tells me thay xyz policy is due on Jan 24, but since premium was not paid since 2014 I will have to pay 1.25 lakhs (exact amount I am supposed to receive from previous claim) and I would recieve 3 lakhs in Jan. I am like ok. I will pay it. (I have been doing this since last 6 months.) Then I get a call from a another guy saying i will explain you the terms and everything. Spends 15 mins with me and then tells me please pay 1.25 lakhs today. I am like not today I will first validate it and will pay next week. He is like this offer is only for today. I said cannot pay today.

First guy calls and tells me that like an brother and suggested you pay it today. You won't be to validate anything because your policy is not active. After you pay we will activate and then you will get all the details. I am like ok.. I will pay next week I don't have money now.

He gives me a fake address tells me send a cheque now, will take 2-3 days for cheque to reach and after that with your permission I will deposit the cheque. I am like ok but I don't 
have 1.25 lakhs. Next day he calls me saying I will waiver penalties send me 1 lakhs, kept me pestering over calls and got that amount to 40k. I was about to handover the money, but forgot because over the weekend I was sick.
Today again he calls me abuses me for not listening to him and not giving him the money. Once that was done, I knew for sure this is fraud 

Few red lines:

1. Fraudsters would give you offer which is very tempting (3 lakhs for just 1 lakh in 3 months) and almost no time to verify the Anyone who rushes you into things is a 

2. I am your well wisher, elder brother .. Blah blah.. No stranger is your well wisher. This line is a patented line of fraudsters.

3. Kept calling me at least 5 times a day. A genuine call centre guy would have called just once and then it is upto you to deal with your money.

4. Kept on giving very tempting offers, waiver on fines, waivers of processing fee, etc, etc.. Tried to sqeeuze whatever little they could. Again a genuine caller will not give 2 hoots to what you have, he will keep offer on the table.. Take it or leave it.

I am 100% sure there is a data leak from previous claim.. Be safe guys, your data is up for sale. 

.