Google has refused to share crucial details needed to track down the creators of the digital lending app Wonder Loan, which threatened users that it will share their private moments on social media if they don’t repay, the Tamil Nadu cybercrime police informed Madras High Court on February 26, The Hindu reported.

Why does matter: This instance of non-compliance by Google comes at a time when the Indian government is trying hard to clamp down on predatory loan apps by issuing stricter regulations for the digital lending industry, banning certain apps , and issuing a whitelist of allowed apps . Such non-compliance only encourages the government to introduce other strict measures that can cause collateral damage to the fast-growing industry. The app ban earlier this month is a case in point, which resulted in popular apps like LazyPay and Indiabulls Home Loans getting banned along with other apps that were allegedly involved in money laundering and predatory lending.

What details does the TN government want from Google: The Tamil Nadu police on November 21, 2022, sought from Google details such as “the user name of the e-mail ID that had been used to host the mobile app on Play Store, his/her mobile phone number, alternate e-mail ID as well as Internet Protocol (IP) addresses of the user,” The Hindu reported.

What did Google say: On January 26, 2023, Google responded to the request by email, stating: “We are not able to provide you with information on the requirements for your jurisdiction. You may wish to consult the Irish Department of Justice to determine the appropriate processes for obtaining data.”

What is this case about: The TN cybercrime police presented the above information in the hearing on February 26 of a writ petition filed by Thainadu Finance Private Limited, a non-banking finance corporation (NBFC), based in the Dindigul district. Thainadu claimed that its address and other details were misused to create the Wonder Loan app. “It came to know of misuse of its credentials only on receiving mails from various people across the country accusing it of charging exorbitant interest for the loans offered through the mobile app,” the NBFC’s counsel told the court, The Hindu reported.

Google initially refused to take down the app: Once the complaint was brought to the cybercrime police, it asked Google in August 2022 to take down the Wonder Loan app but Google refused to do so stating that “the reported content was not found to violate Google Play policies at this time,” the report stated. The app was, however, taken down in November at a second request by the TN police, and after a complaint against the app was also registered by the Andhra Pradesh police.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event