SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A huge source of Air Pollution no one knows about - FMCG Companies
DATE: 2019-11-17
SCORE: 218
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dxn1xd/a_huge_source_of_air_pollution_no_one_knows_about/

--- POST TEXT ---

My uncle runs a distribution business, he is a wholesale dealer for ITC limited. He also owns a retail store (different business) which I visited to buy something and we sat to chit chat for a while and I randomly asked him out of curiosity, "What do you do with expired products from your FMCG distribution business?" to which he replied "By chance aaj hi ana hai company official ne, aaja dikhau." ("Coincidentally, a company official is coming today for the same reason, come let me show you")

So I went to their warehouse from where they loaded all the expired fmcg products (food products like chips, biscuits, noodles, candy, frozen food, toiletries and cosmetics like creams, deodorants, soaps) in a truck, drove the truck to a back alley and unloaded all the goods, lit everything on fire and watched it. I was fucking shook. It was wrong on so many levels. First of all they were burning food, and burning the plastic wrapping with it. With air pollution already on the rise, burning plastic should be like an arrestable offense.

My uncle explained the reason behind this. He said that every FMCG company has to be very cautious about what is selling in the market, if anything less than the standard quality, let alone expired reaches the end consumer, there can be huge class action lawsuit. Health hazard is a big thing for law and any small complaint can cause a big company a lot of trouble like food license can be suspended or they have to compensate consumer in lakhs. And if these expired goods end up with someone irresponsible like roadside sellers they will probably sell them so it is very important for the company to destroy them completely. He said that he does not support it by any means but at the end of the day, business is business and he has to comply by company policy and allow the company officials to do it. He gets reimbursement for expired goods only after they are completely destroyed, so he can't come in the way of company officials because that will lead to his own loss in business.

When we were there watching the burning goods, a rag picker came and saw that. He said, "Saab, hume khane ko nahi milta aur aap khane ki cheez ko aag laga rahe ho, hume dedo hum kha lenge." ("Sir, we don't get enough to eat and you are burning food items, please give it to us we will eat it.") I tried to explain to him that they were expired so he couldn't eat them, but he was uneducated so he brought his son who was educated and understood the meaning of expired. His son said they have been eating expired food since birth. He said they buy these food items from roadside vendors who unpack these expired items and sell them loose to scam people. He said that they eat these expired biscuits when they don't have enough money for "roti". I felt pity for them and gave them a carton of biscuits from fresh stock and explained to them why they shouldn't eat expired food.

All this while I tried to talk to the person who everyone was calling "company official", he was in charge of everything but he said he was busy. I finally got to have a word with him after the process was over and he came for coffee to my uncle's office where they exchanged documents and discussed about reimbursement which my uncle had to receive. I asked him directly why they were burning goods. He gave me the same reason as my uncle explained before. I asked him why "burning" and if there was any other way to get rid of the expired stock. He said there was no other way to completely destroy anything. I tried to explain to him that there is a recycling process by which plastic can be reused and there is no way FMCG companies in 1st world countries are allowed to burn products like that, there has to be some way those products could be treated or recycled or something, even if they have to be destroyed there has to be some way better than burning. His reply was, "Bhai ye India hai, yahan pe itni technology nahi hai, air pollution to cars se bhi ho raha hai, diwali pe patkhe jalte hai, hum to fir bhi sahi kaam kar rahe hai koi kha lega expired product to health problem ho sakti hai." ("Brother, this is India, high end technology does not exist here, air pollution is also caused by cars and diwali crackers, we are doing good work by making sure no one eats expired food because it can be harmful for health") The same fucking problem with everyone in India, when you try to explain to them that they are causing air pollution, they will justify it by stating other sources of air pollution to you. How does that make any sense? He told me that every company does this which is true.

My uncle told me that because of the reimbursement, retailers and distributors are not in fear of dead stock and don't care if products are not sold. The company tries to launch rebate schemes for products which are nearing expiry date but retailers don't put in any efforts because they don't have to bear any loss. They burn expired goods worth over 1 lakh rupees every 3 months from my uncle's warehouse. Sometimes when the company launches a new product and if it fails, there is huge stock of unsold expired products and this number can reach up to 10 lakhs in 1 year. And this is one distributor in a small city. As this is FMCG business, products have to be made available in every smallest city, ITC limited has one of the most extensive distribution networks in the country with 1550 exclusive wholesale dealers. And to my knowledge every company in India is doing the exact same thing - ITC, Nestle, Britannia, Godrej, Amul, Patanjali and any other you can think of. The company policies could be different where some might be trying to reduce dead stock but the end is same, all of them burn huge heaps of unsold expired goods. Just imagine the total amount of air pollution caused collectively by all these companies with such large number of distributors and retailers.

I did some research and there does exist a law that tries to prevent this. An ITC wholesale dealer in a Tier-1 city recently burned 10 lakhs worth of goods in one go which attracted attention because of a huge fire. The matter reached the police and he was fined 1 lakh rupees. Since the company is already bearing a 10 lakh loss by reimbursing the wholesalers and retailers, a 10% increase in loss is nothing for them. And this is only a rare case when someone was fined for this. According to what I have been told, this law is nowhere near being implemented. The worst thing is, the government knows that these companies can get in trouble if they don't destroy the expired goods completely and they have imposed a fine on burning of goods. There is no guidance on what the correct method should be to treat these goods which leaves these companies with no choice so they have just added 10% to their losses and moved on.

TL;DR: FMCG companies in India burn crores worth of expired goods every month which is a huge source of air pollution that no one knows about.