This appeal, by the assessee, is directed against the order of the learned

Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)-13, New Delhi, dated 24-01-2019,

pertaining to the assessment year 2013-14. The assessee has raised following

grounds of appeal: 2. The facts, giving rise to the present appeal, are that the assessee had filed

return of income on 19.03.2014 declaring an income of Rs. 3,32,410/-. Subsequently, the case was reopened and notice was issued u/s 148 of the Income- tax Act, 1961, hereinafter referred to as "the Act". In response to the notice u/s 148

of the Act, the assessee filed return of income on 21.04.2018 disclosing total

income at Rs. 3,32,410/-. The Assessing Officer during the course of assessment

noticed that as per information available on record the assessee had made

transaction of Rs. 7,15,350/- towards sales of shares of M/s Global Capital Markets

Ltd. and earned long term capital gain of Rs. 1,57,458/- and claimed exemption on

that income. However, the Assessing Officer was of the view that the particulars of 3 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT the shares were rigged and manipulated. Therefore, he made addition of Rs. 1,57,458/-. 3. Aggrieved, against this, the assessee preferred appeal before the learned

CIT(Appeals), who, after considering the submissions, dismissed the appeal. Now

the assessee is in appeal before this Tribunal. 4. Learned DR supported the orders of the authorities below and submitted that

the finding of the authorities below is based upon the investigation carried out by

the concerned Wing. 5. I have heard learned DR, perused the entire record and gone through the

orders of the authorities below. I find that the learned CIT(Appeals) has given a

finding of fact by observing as under: officer has not applied any mind
 and knowledge before issuing
 notice u/s 148 of the Act, being the
 appellant never make any
 investment of Rs. 5.50 lakh appx. For eighteen months to earn a very
 small penny amount of LTCG of Rs. 1.58 appx. The appellant has
 received return of investment @
 18.80%

 It is common knowledge that the
 proceeds from trading on stock
 exchange directly gets remitted to
 the investor's bank account by the
 exchange and there is no exchange
 of cheques or the like. It is submitted that the scrip of M/s
 Global Capital Market Limited is
 being traded on BSE till date and
 there has been no suspension. Without prejudice to the aforesaid,
 ti is stated that mere accusation is
 not proof of actual guilt. The fact
 that the scrip is being traded till
 date is a testimony to the aforesaid. Admittedly the appellant has sold
 its shares over BSE which is an
The Ld. AO has stated that various 7 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT entry providers like Sh. Abhiskek anonymous platform, i.e. the
Jain, Sh. Ashopk Kumar Kayan, Sh. appellant has no knowledge of who
Arun Kumar Maheshwari, Sh. is the purchaser/ seller and the
Bikash Sureka has accepted in their appellant is only dealing with the
statement the shares of M/s Global exchange. capital Market Limited is penny It is never within the control or
stock. domain of a seller (of any
 commodity whatsoever) to
 ascertain and assure itself of the
 reasons for which a purchaser is
 buying its product. More so in the
 transactions of sale of shares
 through stock exchange, the seller
 does not even have the mode of
 means to even connect with the
 purchaser to verify the alleged
 genuineness/ market sentiments. A
 prudent businessman only looks at
 maximizing its profits. As stated by the appellant he made purchases of 30,000 equity shares of
M/s Global Capital Market for Rs. 5,56,274.65 in August, September 2011.
These were consolidated in the ratio of 1:10. Thus he held 3000 shares with
a face value of Rs. 1/-. These were sold for Rs. 7,13,732.77 in February,
March 2013 resulting in Long Term Capital Gains of Rs. 1,57,458/-. 4.2.2 The basic issues raised above can be summarized and classified as
follows: ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT 4. That the transaction was genuine since, all the documentation
 done in which no infirmity was found. 5. The appellant has challenged the validity of proceedings u/s 148.
4.4. As regards point 1 & 2 in above para (4.2.2), it shall be addressed
later. C the 3rd point regarding the AO not furnishing the relevant
documents/reports ant not allowing cross examination, it is stated that laws
of evidence are not strictly applicable in income tax proceedings. The
principle of "preponderance of probability" is judiciously followed as
against "beyond reasonable doubt." It is also to be borne in mind, that Directorate of investigation, Kolkata in
coordination with other Directorates of Investigation at other places,
carried out a major exercise and unearthed the massive racket of entry
operators and manipulators to launder the black money and tax evasion.
During the said exercise various statements were recorded. Certainly,
simultaneous action was not taking place in each and every beneficiary's
case. Therefore every beneficiary or his representative was not available at
the time of recording of those statements. This situation is unlike a normal
court of law where at the time of recording of the statement, the other party
or his representative is present in the same court and at the same time and
his offering of the said cross examination does not pose any practical
difficulty. It was not so in the present case. There is one more aspect of the
matter. The Investigation Wing of the Income Tax department in course of
discharge of the official duty, has generated a report which is almost akin to
an expert opinion. Therefore, if necessary, the author of the report could be
cross-examined. However, at no point of time there was demand to cross
examine the author of the report. Therefore the evidentiary value of the
said report is very much there like any other documentary evidence.
4.5. In the present instance, the referred Investigation Report of
Investigation Wing Kolkata was available on the public domain and the
assessee had free access to the said documents. As regards cross
examination, there are numerous rulings which support the case of revenue
observing that "so long as the party charged has a fair and reasonable
opportunity to see, comment and criticize the evidence, statement or record 9 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT on which the charge is made against him the demands and the test of natural
 justice are satisfied." Nokia India Pvt. Ltd. vs. DDIT of Hon'ble ITAT Delhi
 which has relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Calcutta high Court in the
 case of Kisanlal Aggarwal vs. Collector of Land Customs AIR 1967 & Cal.
 80 where the Hon'ble Court has held "No natural justice requires that there
 should be a kind of a formal cross-examination. Formal cross-examination
 is procedural justice So long as the party charged has a fair and reasonable
 opportunity to see, comment and criticise the evidence, statement or record
 on which the charge is being made against him the demands and the test of
 natural justice are satisfied. Cross-examination in that sense is not the
 technical cross-examination in a Court of law in the witness-box." 4.6 In the case of CIT v. Kunwer Fibers (P .) Ltd. 77 taxman.com 345
 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has held that the statements-recorded on
 20.3.1996 were corroborated by the material. As far as the Question
 relating to cross examination is concerned, the court notices that though the
 documents were furnished to the assessee, it had not sought opportunity of
 cross examination; this was made at the fag end, in March, 1997. This court
 finds no justification to reject the statements, which merely explain the
 documents seized; the assessee could well have given a full explanation
 instead of seeking rejection of the documents. 4.7 In the case of GTC Industries Ltd. vs. ACIT 65 ITD 380 Hon'ble ITAT
 Bombay has held that the principles of natural justice do not require formal
 cross- examination. Formal cross-examination is a part of procedural
 justice. It is governed by the rules of evidences, and is the creation of Court.
 It is part of legal and statutory justice, and not a part of natural justice,
 therefore, it cannot be laid down as a general proposition of law that the
 revenue could not rely on any evidences which had not been subjected to
 cross-examination. 4.8 To address the arguments of the appellant at points Background of the
 entire scheme, investigations and Findings of th and other agencies is
 relevant. 4.9.1 Outcome of Investigations by the Investigation wing of the Income
 Tax Department
 Total 84 BSE listed companies were identified as penny stock: The Calcutta Directorate of Income Tax (Investigation) identified 84
 companies (commonly called pennies of companies) which were being used
 for generating bogus long term/short term capital gains by certain entry
 operators. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has taken 11 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT cognizance of investigation carried by investigation of Income Tax
Department and also carried out investigation in case of certain scrips and
passed suitable instructions on the issue of manipulation of share market for
providing bogus capital gains entries. 4.9.3 IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS OF NSE/SEBI/SIT

11 memberSpecialInvestigationTeam (SIT) of Hon'ble Supreme Court on
Black Money has also pointed out the Misuse of exemption on Long Term
Capital Gains tax for money laundering in the Third SIT report on Black
Money. Order of BSE of January, 2015 showing the list of 22 banned penny stock
companies for trading. The AR, on behalf of A has reiterated, that the various searches and
investigations conducted by the IT Dept, Inv Wing Kolkata found no
material against the A, hence he has no role and is thus an innocent I
nvestor. The AR has also objected to his right of cross examination of
persons/Company Directors/Stock brokers, whose statements were recorded
during searches by the inv Wing. Prima facie, it may appear to be so but, Income tax Act follows the
juridical principle of 'preponderance of probability' and not 'beyond
reasonable doubt'. Moreso in a scam of such a massive scale, with so many
players involved, the laws of evidence have to be accordingly applied. Even
the AO has drawn strength from judicial pronouncements which specially
address such peculiar circumstances and facts. 4.10 The appellant has put forth an argument that the sale of shares was
made on an anonymous platform, i.e. the appellant has no knowledge of
who is the purchaser/seller and the appellant is only dealing with the
exchange. It is worthwhile to mention here that the Apex Court of the country
has rejected this plea that every trading activity done on BSE platform does
not have scope of manipulation. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a recent
judgment dated 8th February 2018 in the case of Securities and Exchange 12 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT

Board of India versus Rakhi Trading Private Limited (civil appeal number
1969 of 2011 with civil appeals number 3174-3177 of 2011 and civil appeal
number 3180 of 2011) has observed as under: Thus, the screen based transaction would not necessarily make it sacrosanct
specially in a scam ridden case of such massive proportion involving
thousands of crores of rupees. 5.1 DECISIONS RELIED UPON BY ITAT/COURTS IN FAVOUR OF
REVENUE ON THE ISSUE OF CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE IN
PENNY STOCK CASES
• CIT vs. Durga Prasad More [1971] 82 ITR 540 (SC)
• SumatiDayal 214 ITR 801 (SC)
• Me Dowell & Co. 154 ITR 148 (SC)
• SomNathMaini, 306 ITR 414 (HC)
• Ashok Mahehdru& Sons (HUF) v CIT 173 TAXMANN 178 (HC)
• Hersh Win ChadhaVs DCIT 135 TTJ 513(ITATDelhi)
• Arvind M KariyaVs ACIT IN ITA No. 7024/Mum/2010 (ITAT Mumbai)

5.2. DECISIONS IN FAVOUR OF REVENUE ON THE ISSUE OF
RULE OF EVIDENCE

AO is a quasi - judicial authority and rigour of the rules of evidence
contained in the evidence act are not applicable. There is no presumption in
law that the AO is to discharge an impossible burden to assess the tax
liabilities by direct evidence only and to establish the evasion beyond doubt
as in criminal proceedings. ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT • Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Ltd. Vs. CIT ( 1954) 26 ITR 775 (SC)
 S.S. Gadgil v. Lal& Co. (1964) 53 ITR 231 (SC)
 • CIT v. Jay Engineering Works Ltd. (1978) 113 ITR 389 (Delhi HC)
 • DinshawDarabshawShroff v. CIT (1943) 11 ITR 172 (Bom.) • Hersh win ChadhaVs DCIT 135 TTJ 51 (ITAT Delhi)

5.3 DIRECT DECISIONS OF HON'BLE COURTS/TRIBUNALS IN THE
CASE 0F PENNY STOCK COMPANIES IN FAVOUR OF REVENUE

 • M.K. Rajeshwari vs. ITO in ITA No. 1723/Bang/2018 vide order dated
 12.10.2018 Hon'ble ITAT Bangalore Bench
 • AbhimanyuSoin vs. ACIT in ITA No. 951/Chd/2016 vide order dated
 18.04.2018 Hon'ble ITAT Chandigarh bench
 • Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. ITO in ITA No. 61/Nag/2013 vide order
 dated 18th July, 2016 Hon'ble ITAT Nagpur Bench confirmed by
 Hon'ble Bombay High Court vide order dated 10.04.2017 (89
 taxmann.com 196)
 • Dinesh Kumar Khandelwal, HUF vs. ITO in ITA No. 58 &
 59/Nag/2015 vide order dated 24h August, 2016
 • Ratnakar M. Pujari vs. ITO in ITA No. 995/Mum/2012 vide order
 dated 03.08.2016 Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench
 • Disha N. Lalwani vs. ITO in ITA No. 6398/Mum/2012 vide order
 dated 22.03.2017 Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench
 • Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai in ITO vs. Shamim M. Bharwoni [2016] 69
 taxmann.com 65
 • UshaChandresh Shah Vs ITO in ITA No. 6858/Mum/2011 vide order
 dated 26.09.2014 Hon'ble ITAT Mumbai Bench

 CIT vs. Smt. JasvinderKaur 357 ITR 638 order dated 12.06.2013
 (Gauhati HC)

5.4 While Ld AR has supported his contention citing various decisions of
Hon'ble High Courts and ITATs but the final interpretation of the
legislative intent and law of the land has been clearly put forth by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the following three landmark judgements:- As can be seen from the magnitude, volume and surgical precision of the
entire operation, it was an exercise which was targeted to achieve certain
objectives to circumvent the law of the land, evade taxes and deprive the
exchequer of its rightful due. The plethora of cases quoted by the AO all
lend support to his decision, specially in such scam ridden cases wherein it
is essential to pierce the veil of legitimacy and innocence/ignorance and
look behind the charade woven to evade taxes. On the other hand, after due
consideration of arguments put forth by the appellant, it is held that the Ld
AR has not been able to controvert/successfully distinguish the judicial
pronouncements quoted by the AO. 5.6 The AR argued that the transaction of sale of these shares is through
stock exchange and the sale consideration has been received via cheque.
Whereas the ground of the AO is that the appellant could not discharge the
onus cast upon him by virtue of section 68 in proving genuineness of the
transaction, specially because the transaction is improbable. 5.7 Hon'ble Nagpur ITAT while delivering judgment dt.10.04.2017, in
61/Nag/2013. Assessment Year: 2006-07, in case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain
L/H of Smt. Shanti devi Bimalchand Jain Vs. Pr.CIT-l, Nagpur has dealt
with and observed as under,

 "In this regard I may gainfully refer to the decision of Hon'ble
 jurisdictional High Court in the case of Major Metals Ltd. vs. Union
 of India and others in Writ Petition No. 397 of 2011 vide order dated
 22nd February, 2012. The Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in this
 case has held that a company cannot command disproportionate and
 huge share premium and such receipt of bogus share application
 money even though through banking channel can be held to be
 assessee's undisclosed income received in the garb of unjustified 15 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT share application money. In the present case I find that there is no
justification whatsoever that the shares of an unknown company of
Rs.5/- can be sold within two years time Rs. 485/- without there being
any reason on record. This unexplained spurt in the value of
unknown company shares is beyond preponderance of probability. It
has been held by Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Durga Prasad
Mor and Sumati Dayal that the test of human probabilities have also
to be applied by the authorities below. In the case of Sumati Dayal
214 ITR 801, it was held that during the year 1970-71 (pertaining to
the assessment year 1971-72) between April 6, 1970, and March 20,
1971, the appellant claims to have won in horse race a total amount
of Rs. 3,11,831/- on 13 occasions out of which ten winnings were
from jackpots and three were from treble events. Similarly in the year
1971-72, the appellant won races on two occasions and both times
the winning were from a jackpot. These receipts were tested on the
touch stone of human probability and it was found that apparent was
not real. That it was contrary to statistical theory and experience of
the frequencies and probabilities. The exceptional luck enjoyed by the
assessee was held to be beyond preponderance of probability. Hence
the Hon'ble Apex Court has affirmed the view that it would not be
unreasonable to infer that the appellant had not really participated in
any of the races except to the extent of purchasing the winning tickets
after the events presumably with unaccounted funds. When the present case is examined on the touch stone of above case
law, it is clear that these transactions of the assessee can by no
stretch of imagination be considered as investment transactions. They
are only make believe transaction. Hence I do not find any infirmity
in the revenue taxing the receipt in this regard.
The entire amount of the so called receipt of share sales could well
also be treated as unexplained credit u/s 68 of the I.T. Act as it has all
the ingredients of attracting the rigors of the said section. Section 68 of the I.T. Act provides that where any sum is found credited in the
books of the assessee maintained for any previous year and the
assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source thereof or
the explanation offered by him is not in the opinion of the AO
satisfactory, the sum so credited may be charged to income tax as
income of the assessee of that year. In the present case the assessee's 16 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT explanation that the said receipt is on account of investment in shares
 whereby share of Rs.5/~ of unknown company has jumped to Rs.485/-
 in no time has been totally rejected by the authorities below. The
 assessee has not at all been able to adduce cogent evidences in this
 regard. There is no economic or financial justification for the sale
 price of these shares. The so called purchaser of these shares has not
 been identified despite efforts of the AO. The broker company through
 which shares were sold did not respond to queries in this regard.
 Hence the fantastic sale price realisation is not at all humanly
 probably, as there is no economic orfinanciai basis, that a share of
 little known company would jump from Rs. 5/- to 485/-, In these
 circumstances, I do not find any infirmity in the orders of the
 authorities below. Accordingly I affirm the same and decide the issue
 against the assessee." Nagpur Bench of Hon'ble Bombay High Court while delivering judgment
dt. 10.04.2017, in ITA No 18/2017, has dismissed appeal against the above
said order of the ITAT, Nagpur, in case of Saniav Bimalcharn L/Hof Smt.
ShantideviBimalchand Jain Vs. Pr. CIT-I. Nagpur. 5.8 It can be seen from the above that the Hon'ble High Court and ITAT f
held that this kind of receipt can be taxed u/s 68 . It is a trite that under sect
68, the onus is upon the appellant to prove three things namely, i) identity
creditor , ii) credit worthiness of the creditor and iii) genuineness of t
transaction. The appellant is trying to prove genuineness through the routir
papers. In this case, reference has already been made to the ratio of Hon'bl
Supreme Court in the case of Durga Prasad More (supra) where it has beei
observed that documents cannot be relied upon blindly: -- The taxing authorities were not required to put on blinkers while
 looking at the documents produced before them. They were entitled to
 look into the surrounding circumstances to find out the reality of the
 recitals made in those documents
 The A.O. has applied section 68 of Income Tax Act, 1961. The
 relevant provisions of section 68 are reproduced as under: 5.9 It may be seen that whether explanation of the appellant is
satisfactory or not is to be seen with reference to the opinion of the
assessing officer. The legal position in this regard is discussed in the
following paragraphs

 In the context of section 147 , Hon'ble Supreme Court while delivering
judgment in the case of Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd Vs. Income-Tax Officer
And Others [1999] 236 ITR 34 (SC) laid down a ratio that the sufficiency or
correctness of the material is not a thing to be considered by the courts. This view is reaffirmed by Hon'ble SC, in case of Assistant Commissioner of
Income Tax Vs. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers Pvt. 291 ITR 500(SC). The
Hon'ble SC has stated as under: 5.10 In Anant Kumar Saharia Vs. CIT [1998] 232 ITR 533 (Gauhati), it
was held as follows (page 539): 6.1 Therefore, I am of the considered view that if the subjectivity of
'reason to believe' cannot be subject matter of consideration of the appellate
courts, the subjectivity in 'opinion' of the A.O. can never be subject matter of
consideration of the appellate courts because certain incriminating material
having some evidentiary value is required to form 'reason to believe' and
there is less chance of subjectivity, however, 'opinion' can be formed' on the
basis of some material which , strictly speaking, may not have any
evidentiary value and has much more (inherent) subjectivity. What can be
examined is whether there was material which has been appreciated and
whether the opinion formed is logical and is one of the possible opinions
which could have been formed in the given set of facts and circumstances. 6.2 The following recent rulings of the ITATs confirmed the findings of
the assessing officer in similar cases involving bogus capital gains through
transactions in Penny Stocks': Disregards paper-trail through contract-notes

Pune ITAT upheld undisclosed income addition for sale proceeds received
by assessee-individual on sale of shares & rejected asessee's short term
capital gains 'STCG'] claim for AY 2006-07: Based on the enquiries
conducted by BSE/SEBI, AO observed that the shares of a company dealt in 19 ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT by assessee were tainted b\ penny stock in as much as its prices were
manipulated, Accordingly he held that the STCG brought into books was
nothing but income from undisclosed sources, it was noted that assessee had
claimed huge STCG of Rs. 22 lakh in respect of penny stock purchased for a
paltry sum of Rs. 75,000/, further noted that broker from whom assessee
purchased the shares was visited with the penalties by SEBI and was
debarred from acting as a share broker. On assessee's completion of paper-
trail by producing contract notes, ITAT remarks that "mere furnishing of
contract notes etc. and more specifically when seen in the background of the
above noted facts, does not inspire any confidence and cannot be a ground
to delete an addition, which is otherwise made on the solid bedrock of
detailed enquiries". It therefore concluded that the assessee obtained only
accommodation entries in the garb of STCG from transfer of penny stock
and also sustained addition to the extent of 2% on account of commission
for arranging deal of share-sale. [TS-5-ITAT-2019(PUNE)] ii) Hon'ble ITAT New Delhi in the case of Anip Rastogi [TS-5007-ITAT-
2019(Delhi)] has upheld addition u/s 68 on account of credits arising on
sale of penny stock on the ground that assessee had generated bogus entries
of long term capital gains on sale of penny stocks. iii) Very recently Hon'ble Delhi High Court in ITA No. 49/2018
pronounced on 17.01.2019 in the case of Pr. CIT Vs. NDR Prornotors Pvt.
Ltd. almost similar circumstances held that "we have no hesitation in
holding that the transactions in questions were clearly sham and make
belief with excellent paper work tocamouflage their bogus nature .... the
reasoning given is contrary to humanprobabilities for in the normal course
of conduct, no one will make investment of such huge amount without being
concerned about the return and safety of such investment. Accordingly the
appeal is allowed." In view of above discussion the addition of 1,57,458/- is hereby confirmed." ITA 6834/Del/2019
 Bharat Jha HUF Vs. ACIT 6. The assessee has not brought any material to contradict the finding of

learned CIT(A). Moreover, the assessee chose not to attend the hearing despite

having been given sufficient opportunity. I, therefore, confirm the finding of

learned CIT(A). The grounds raised in the appeal are rejected. 7. The appeal is dismissed. (KUL BHARAT)
 JUDICIAL MEMBER
*Madan PalVerma*
Copy forwarded to: