Two appeals have been filed by the appellants, one

 against the order dated 8th February, 2019 passed by

 the Whole Time Member ('WTM' for short) and other

 against the order dated 4th March, 2020 passed by the

 Adjudicating Officer ('AO' for short). The WTM has

 debarred the appellant from accessing the securities

 market for a period of five years and the AO has 3 imposed a penalty of Rs.5 lakhs for violation of the

 provisions of Section 12A(a), (b), (c) of Securities and

 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter

 referred to as ' SEBI Act ') read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d) and 4(1) of the Securities and Exchange

 Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

 Trade Practices relating to Securities Market)

 Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as 'PFUTP

 Regulations'). 2. The facts, in brief, leading to the filing of the

 present appeal is, that a resolution dated 16th March,

 2010 was passed by the Board of Directors of Nissan

 Copper Ltd. The Board of Directors in its meeting

 dated 16th March, 2010 resolved to open a bank

 account with European American Investment Bank AG

 (hereinafter referred to as 'EURAM BANK') for the

 purpose of receiving subscription money in respect of

 Global Depository Receipts (hereinafter referred to as

 'GDR') issue of the Company. The said resolution

 further authorised its Managing Director to execute, 4 sign any application, agreement as required by the

bank and further authorised EURAM Bank to use the

funds so deposited in the account as security in

connection with loans, if any. The resolution is

extracted hereunder: 3. Investigation revealed that the Company had issued

 50 lakh GDR amounting to USD 22.40 million on 20th

 May, 2010 and that one Vintage FZE (hereinafter

 referred to as 'Vintage') was the sole subscriber to the

 GDR issue. Investigation further revealed that Vintage

 was granted a loan by EURAM Bank by way of a loan

 agreement dated 7th May, 2010 for the purpose of

 making payment, transfer subscription of the GDR

 issue by the Company. The investigation further

 revealed that the Company stood guarantor in respect

 of the loan availed by EURAM Bank by depositing the

 entire GDR proceeds as security for the aforesaid loan

 availed by Vintage. This guarantee was through a

 pledge agreement dated 7th May, 2010. Investigation

 further revealed that the pledge agreement was signed

 by the Managing Director on behalf of the Company.

 Based on the aforesaid, a show cause notice was issued

 alleging that the appellant alongwith other noticees

 were parties to the fraudulent scheme of issuance of

 GDR of the Company by way of loan and pledge 6 agreement which was not disclosed to the shareholders

 and investors and, therefore, violated the Listing

 Agreement. 4. The WTM and the AO arrived at similar findings

 holding that the action of the Company and its

 Directors in initiating this fraudulent scheme was

 violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act read with

 Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations read

 with Clause 32, 36 and 50 of the Listing Agreement.

 The authorities came to the conclusion that execution

 of pledge agreement by which the proceeds were

 pledged could not be utilised by the Company and such

 creation of the pledge and loan agreement was not

 disclosed to the public and investors and, therefore, the

 entire scheme was fraudulent. The authorities

 accordingly passed appropriate directions and

 penalties. 5. In so far as the appellant is concerned it is his

 specific case that he was appointed as an Independent

 Director in the year 2007-2008 and resigned in the year 7 2015. The appellant admits that as an Independent

Director he was part of the resolution for opening of a

Bank account with EURAM Bank but was not part of

any issuance of the GDR nor was part of the day to day

affairs and management of the Company. It was

further contended that he does not hold any shares of

the Company nor received any remuneration from the

Company for participating in the Board of Director's

resolution as an Independent Director. The appellant

further contended that he was not aware of the loan

agreement or of the pledge agreement. The AO in the

impugned order has imposed a penalty upon the

appellant only on the ground that he had participated in

the Board meeting of the Company on 16th March,

2010 and since he continued to be on the Board of

Directors during the entire process of issuance of GDR

he was part of the fraudulent scheme in facilitating the

subscription of its own GDR. Similar finding has been

given by the WTM in appeal no.29 of 2020 in his

order. 6. Having heard Mr. Dinesh Guchiya, Advocate for

 the appellants and Mr. Suraj Chaudhary, Advocate

 assisted by Ms. Nidhi Singh, Ms. Binjal Samani, Ms.

 Aditi Palnitkar and Ms. Moksha Kothari, Advocates

 for the respondent, we are of the opinion that merely

 by participating as an Independent Director in the

 resolution of the Board of Directors on 16th March,

 2010 does not make the appellant a part of the

 fraudulent scheme and arrangement of the Company

 with regard to the issuance of the GDR. 7. Resolution of 16th March, 2010 only directs opening

 of a bank account with EURAM Bank account for the

 purpose of receiving subscription money in respect of

 GDR and authorises the Managing Director to sign

 such documents as required. By being part of such

 resolution does not make the appellant part of a

 fraudulent scheme in as much the resolution of 16th

 March, 2010 does not by itself makes it a fraudulent

 resolution. It is the subsequent acts of the Company

 and its Managing Directors by issuing a pledge 9 agreement for the purpose of providing guarantee to

 Vintage so that it could secure a loan for the purpose of

 subscribing to the GDR issue makes it fraudulent.

 However, there is no evidence to indicate that the

 appellant was party to the execution of the pledge

 agreement nor there is anything on record to indicate

 that he was aware of the loan agreement or the pledge

 agreement. 8. We further find that a specific assertion was made

 by the appellant that he was not part of the day to day

 affairs and management of the Company. This fact has

 not been disputed by the respondent. Therefore,

 unless and until there is further evidence to indicate

 that the appellant had participated in the issuance of

 GDR and/or knew about the fraudulent scheme, in our

 opinion, the restraint order passed by the WTM and the

 penalty imposed by the AO on the ground that the

 appellant was part of the fraudulent scheme cannot be

 sustained. 9. The respondents have filed a reply in appeal no.28

 of 2022 contending that the appellant was the

 Chairperson of the audit committee and, therefore, he

 should have raised a red flag when GDR proceeds

 could not be utilised by the Company or the fact that

 the partial restraint on the GDR issue were dependant

 on repayment of loan by Vintage to EURAM Bank. It

 was contended that the appellant was part of the audit

 committee and therefore had deemed knowledge of

 the GDR proceeds and the fraudulent scheme. 10. In our opinion, such submission cannot be raised

 nor can it be considered by this Tribunal at this stage.

 These facts were not part of the show cause notice nor

 was it considered by the authorities and it is no longer

 open to consider such documents as it has been filed in

 the reply for the first time. 11. In appeal no.406 of 2020 Mr. Gurmeet Singh and

 other connected appeals this Tribunal rejected the

 application seeking permission to bring on record the

 additional documents. This Tribunal held: 11 12. In Mr. S.N. Sharma vs. SEBI , appeal no.472 of

 2020 decided on 7th September, 2021 this Tribunal

 has held that merely because Non-Independent

 Executive Directors were part of the resolution

 cannot be penalized as they were not involved in the

 day to day affairs of the Company. The said

 decision is squarely applicable in the instant case. 13. Similar view was held by this Tribunal in the

 case of Govind Das Pasari vs. SEBI, Appeal No. 201 of 2019 decided on April 30, 2021; Prafull

 Anubhai Shah vs. SEBI, Appeal No.389 of 2021

 decided on June 28, 2021; Jaiprakash Kabra,

 Appeal no.58 of 2021 decided on September 2,

 2021, Gurmeet Singh, Appeal No.406 of 2020 and

 other connected appeals decided on September 20,

 2021 and Rajesh Shah, Appeal no.433 of 2021 13 decided on July 5, 2021. In addition to the

 aforesaid, this Tribunal in Chromatic India Ltd.,

 Appeal No.393 of 2020 and other connected

 appeals decided on May 12, 2021 held that being

 part of the resolution by itself cannot make the

 incumbent liable and something further related to

 fraud committed by the incumbent is required to be

 shown. This Tribunal held: 14. In view of the aforesaid, the impugned orders

 passed by the WTM and AO cannot be sustained and 14 are quashed. Both the appeals are allowed with no

 order as to costs. Misc. application is also accordingly

 disposed of. 15. This order will be digitally signed by the Private

 Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned

 parties are directed to act on the digitally signed copy

 of this order. Certified copy of this order is also

 available from the Registry on payment of usual

 charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M.T. Joshi
 Judicial Member

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member

 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

6.7.2022 KSHMI RAJALAKSHMI
 NAIR
 H

 Date: 2022.07.06
 H NAIR 16:27:03 +05'30'
RHN