1. The accused is facing trial for the offence u/s
302 / 498A / 304B / 201 IPC. BREIF FACTS 2. The case of prosecution is that on 06.08.2019, PCR
call was received, which was recorded as GD No. 37-A. On
receipt of the GD, police officials of PS Sagarpur reached the
 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: spot at Shiv Puri Park near Baraat Ghar, where they found heavy
plastic katta / bora white color tied with black and red rope.
When they opened the plastic katta / bora, they found a dead
body of a female aged 25-26 years wearing black pajami and
yellow suit having flowers, wrapped in a blanket. Besides the
body, there was another blanket / warm bedsheet multicolor in
the said plastic katta. The dead body had ligature mark. Efforts
were made for identification of the dead body, however, no clue
was found. Crime team was called at the spot and the
photographs of the crime scene and body were taken. The articles
were seized and body was sent to DDU hospital. FIR u/s 302 / 201 IPC was lodged against unknown person. CCTV cameras were
checked but no footage was found. The dead body was preserved
in the mortuary. The photo of the dead body was uploaded on
Zipnet for checking the data with missing persons. Hue and cry
notice was pasted on various places in Delhi including railway
stations, bus stands, hospitals and other places. On 07.08.2019,
IO/Insp. Joginder Singh shared the photo of the dead body with
his contacts and groups on Whatsapp. No person came for the

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: mortem of the body of deceased was got conducted. On the basis
of the statement of the father of deceased, Section 498-A / 304-B IPC were added in the present FIR. The accused Jalil Sheikh was
arrested from West Bengal on 29.08.2019. After investigation,
charge-sheet u/s 302 / 498A / 304B / 201 IPC was filed against
accused Jalil Sheikh. CHARGE 3. After hearing arguments on the point of charge and
finding a prima facie case, charge u/s 302 / 498A / 304B / 201 IPC
was framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed trial. 4. The accused has admitted following documents u/s
294 Cr.P.C on 21.03.2023. Crime team officials carried out inspection and took
photographs. The body was removed from the katta and he took
the dead body to DDU hospital and got MLC prepared. ASI
Kabool also joined him at the hospital and thereafter, he
alongwith ASI Kabool came back to the spot. ASI Kabool
prepared rukka and handed it to him. He further deposed that ASI
Kabool Sigh prepared the seizure memo Ex.PW5/A. He took the
rukka to the police station and after getting the FIR registered,
returned to the spot and handed over the FIR and tehrir to IO
Inspector Joginder. Ex.PW6/A and certificate u/s 65B IEA as Ex.PW6/B.

E. PW-7 Ct. Sandeep, PW9 HC Satpal, PW-12 SI
Rajneesh deposed that they alongwith Ct. Rakesh visited District
24 Pargana, West Bengal. From there, with local staff, they
reached village Uttar Sonarkhali. On the basis of the CDRs, IO
interrogated one Mohd. Forman at Village Uttar Sonakhali and
Jalauddin Sheikh R/o Village Kethal Beria. PW7 further deposed
that on 20.08.2019, they reached at PS Basanti 24 Pargana West
Bengal and from there with police staff, on the basis of CDR
went to village Kola Hazara and interrogated Baki Bulla Khan
and Rajiul Mulla Khan. They also interrogated Atiyar Rehman at
Village Mandal Para. On 23.08.2019, they reached at PS
Ravinder Nagar and interrogated one Jiyarul Mistri on the basis
of CDR. On 25.08.2019, they reached at Sealdah Station where
secret informer met the IO. The police team reached Baligunge
Railway, Kolkata, West Bengal and arrested the accused at the

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: instance of secret informer. Accused was apprehended from
platform no. 2 and after giving information to the local police, he
was brought to Delhi and produced before the court after medical
examination. F. PW9 HC Satpal further deposed that accused was
apprehended from Baligunge Railway, Kolkata, West Bengal
vide arrest memo Ex.PW9/A and his personal search was
conducted vide memo Ex.PW9/B. PW8 & PW9 further deposed
that from personal search of accused, one mobile phone black
color, one wallet containing ID and debit card were recovered.
That the accused gave the disclosure statement Ex.PW8/A.

G. PW10 SI Ashok Kumar deposed that on
21.08.2019 an affidavit Ex.PW3/B regarding marriage of
accused with the deceased was produced by the father of
deceased before IO Inspector Joginder Singh which was seized
vide memo Ex.PW3/A. He got the body identified from the
father of the deceased and his uncle vide memo Ex.PW1/A and

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: Ex.PW3/C. He deposed that the doctor after the postmortem,
handed over two sealed pulandas containing the clothes of the
deceased and blood in gauze to the IO which were seized vide
memo Ex.PW10/A . They returned to the police station and
deposited the pulandas in the maalkhana. He further deposed that
on 29.08.2019, he alongwith IO, accused, HC Satish and Ct.
Gajender went to house of accused at RZ -55/210, Gali No. 2, J
Block, West Sagarpur, New Delhi. At pointing out of accused,
they recovered one dupatta- red color with black flowers from
the bathroom of the house. He proved the pointing out memo as
Ex.PW10/C. He further deposed that accused disclosed that he
had strangulated the victim / deceased with the said dupatta. The
same was seized by the IO vide memo Ex.PW10/B. Thereafter,
accused lead the police officials to Shivpuri Kallad and pointed
the place where he had dumped the dead body of the deceased
vide memo Ex.PW10/D. That on 11.11.2019, on the direction of
the IO, he went to DDU Hospital alongwith exhibits i.e. sealed
pulanda of dupatta for obtaining the subsequent opinion. He
handed over the same to the doctor. After examination, doctor Digitally signed Kiran by Kiran Gupta Date: 2024.05.10 Gupta 15:53:14
 +0530 State Vs. Jalil Sheikh Page no. 12 of 63 13 handed over the same to him alongwith subsequent opinion. He
identified the dupatta / chunni as Ex.PW10/P1. He during his cross-examination deposed that on
29.08.2019, when he reached the rented house of accused, the
lock of the door was open. He cannot say whether any other
person was residing in the said building or not. The room of the
accused was empty except that some garbage was lying on the
floor. He deposed that he cannot say whether any commercial
building was situated in front of the house of accused. He did not
check any CCTV camera on the main road and in the street of the
house of the accused. H. PW15 ASI Kamlesh Kumar deposed that on
06.08.2019 at about 9:37 am, he had recorded one DD no. 37A
Ex.PW15/A on the basis of PCR call. The said call was marked
to ASI Kabool Chand. He further deposed that at 3:30 pm Ct.
Vikas brought the rukka sent by ASI Kabool Chand, on the basis
of which he registered the present FIR Ex.PW15/B. The

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: investigation was marked to Inspector Joginder Singh. He proved
the certificate under S. 65 B IEA as Ex.PW15/C.

I. PW18 SI Kabool Chand, is the first IO of the case.
He proved the preliminary investigation from the stage of
visiting the spot till lodging of the FIR. He further proved the
carbon copy of the request letter to the hospital for preparing the
MLC and preserving the body in the mortuary for the purposes of
identification as Ex.PW18/A.

J. PW22 Inspector Joginder Singh is the IO of the
case. He deposed that on receipt of DD No. 37A, which was
marked to ASI Kabool Chand, he reached at the spot at around
10:40 am. They found that dead body of a female aged about 25
years was found in a plastic bag wrapped in a blanket. One bed
sheet was also found in the plastic bag. After the registration of
the FIR, he took over the investigation. He prepared the site plan
Ex.PW22/A. The photographs of the dead body were uploaded
on the zipnet and wireless message was flashed to all the police

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: stations. On 07.08.2019, he obtained the crime team report
alongwith the photographs and got prepared the hue and cry
notice for identification of the dead body. That on 17.08.2019, he
received a phone call on his mobile. The caller was speaking
from 24 Pargana, West Bengal and stated that the poster of the
dead body which was circulated for identification is of Fatima
Sardar D/o Forman Sardar. She was living with her husband i.e.
accused and her mobile number is 9711803004 in the area of
Sagarpur. The caller further told him that one man Shankar
Srivastava with mobile number 7065864748 is also living in the
area of Sagarpur in same location. That he contacted the accused
on mobile number 9711803004, but the same was switched off.
He contacted Shankar Srivastava on his mobile number, who told
him that accused was living in H No. RZ 55/210, GF, West
Sagarpur, Delhi with his wife and son and that he was living at
the same address on second floor. He further told him that
permanent address of accused is Village Basanti, District 24
Pargana, West Bengal, and that at present accused is at his native
place. He sent a request letter to collect the CDR of mobile

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: number 9711803004 to DCP office. The last location of said
mobile number was in West Bengal. He interrogated the landlord
Surender Kumar and reached the tenanted premises but the same
was found locked. He further deposed that on 21.08.2019 while
he was present in the police station, one person namely Forman
Sardar alongwith Mosraf Laskar came to the police station.
Forman Sardar told him that his daughter Fatima was residing
with accused in the area of West Sagarpur. Accused had brought
his daughter from his house and later on married with her. He
recorded the statement of Forman Sardar and seized the copy of
affidavit of marriage of accused with deceased. After
postmortem, the body was handed over to her father. He further
deposed that SDM Ajeet Thakur remained present during the
postmortem proceedings of the deceased and he also recorded the
statement of the father of the deceased. After perusal of the
statement of the father of the deceased recorded by the SDM, Section 498A / 304B IPC were added. He further deposed that on
29.08.2019, SI Rajneesh produced accused before him in the
police station after his arrest on 28.08.2019 from West Bengal. Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: He during his cross-examination deposed that the date
of generation of the CDR is 18.08.2019 and the same was
preserved in the system of their company. On the basis of the
date of generation mentioned in the print-out of CDR, he can
definitely say that CDRs were also provided to the investigating
agency in the year 2019. He deposed that the record annexed
with the letter Ex.PW19/F was issued by Nodal Officer Sh.
Satish Verma. MEDICAL EVIDENCE

A. PW13 Dr. V.K. Ranga proved the postmortem
report of the deceased Fatima Sardar Ex.PW13/A. He deposed
that the cause of death is asphyxia secondary to constriction of
neck structure as result of strangulation via injury mentioned in
the paragraph - external examination of his report and the same
is sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature. He
 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran
 Date: He further deposed that while he was coming to Delhi with
Farman, he told him that his daughter Fatima was residing with
accused in Delhi for the last 5-6 years as she was in love with
him and they both had married each other. He also exhibited his
statement as Ex.PW1/C.

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran
 Kiran Gupta
 Gupta Date: Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF Ld. DEFENCE COUNSEL 7. It is argued by the ld. Defence Counsel that accused
has been falsely implicated in the present case by the IO. It is
argued that initially the deceased was not identified and later the
IO received the details about the deceased over a call from
mobile number 8101968249. The caller gave information about
the residence of the deceased, her husband and even gave two
numbers, one belonging to the husband of the deceased and one
of Mr. Shankar Srivastava, both natives of West Bengal. The said
caller has not been cited as witness in the charge-sheet. 7.1. It is argued that Shankar Srivastava was never part
of the investigation, despite having a clear indication and
suspicion on his role in the incident. It is submitted that said
Shankar Srivastava was residing on the second floor of the
premises, where the accused was living with his wife. He was
aware of the two persons namely Moni and Toni who had

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: Even the evidence of CDR does not support the last seen theory
of prosecution. The prosecution has not examined any person to
prove that accused was lastly seen with the deceased. It is further
argued that the dupatta which is alleged to have been recovered
at the instance of accused has been planted upon him. The CDR
is a mere speculative piece of evidence and has no corroborative
value with the circumstances relied upon by the prosecution. It is
submitted that since the prosecution has miserably failed to place

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 8. Heard Ld. Addl. PP for the State, Ld. Defence
Counsel and perused the complete record file. The accused is
facing trial for the offences u/S 302 / 498A / 304B / 201 IPC. S. 498A/304B IPC 9. Section 304B (1) defines 'dowry death' of a woman.
It provides that 'dowry death' is where death of a woman is
caused by burning or bodily injuries or occurs otherwise than
under normal circumstances, within seven years of marriage, and
it is shown that soon before her death, she was subjected to
cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her
husband, in connection with demand for dowry. Sub clause (2)
provides for punishment for those who cause dowry death. In

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: "10. To sustain the conviction under Section 304-B IPC,
 the following essential ingredients are to be established: 10. In Baijnath & Ors. vs. State of Madhya
Pradesh, Crl. Appeal no. 1097/15 decided on 18.11.2016, it

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: was observed by Hon'ble Apex Court that cruelty or harassment
of the lady by her husband or his relative for or in connection
with any demand for any property or valuable security as a
demand for dowry or in connection therewith is the common
constituent of both the offences of Section 304B and 498A IPC.
It held that cruelty or harassment by the husband or any relative
of his for or in connection with any demand of dowry to reiterate
is the gravamen of the two offences. The court further observed
that the presumption under Section 113-B (Presumption as to
dowry death) of the Evidence Act as well is founded on the proof
of cruelty or harassment of the woman dead for or in connection
with any demand for dowry by the person charged with the
offence. The presumption as to dowry death thus would get
activated only upon the proof of the fact that the deceased lady
had been subjected to cruelty or harassment for or in connection
with any demand for dowry by the accused and that too in the
reasonable contiguity of death. It was held that such a proof is
thus legislatively mandated prerequisite to invoke the otherwise

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 11. The cruelty is defined under two clauses of
explanation to S. 498A IPC. Clause (a) talks about willful
conduct of such nature as is likely to drive a woman to commit
suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health.
As per clause (b), it also includes harassment of woman in
furtherance of any unlawful demand for any property or valuable
security or on account of failure of such woman or any person
related to her to meet such demand. 12. Thus, the expression of cruelty take in its ambit
mental cruelty as well as physical torture of the woman. But for
attracting the provisions of S. 304B IPC, the cruelty and
harassment should be in furtherance of unlawful demand
referable to marriage. The prosecution must establish existence
of proximate and live link between the dowry death and cruelty
or harassment for dowry demand by the husband or his relatives. 13. In the present case, the prosecution has relied upon
the documents Ex.PW3/A and Ex.PW3/B with respect to the
marriage of accused with deceased. The said marriage documents
are not disputed by the accused. As per the said documents, the
marriage was solemnized between deceased and accused on
01.12.2014. The body of deceased was found on 06.08.2019.
Hence, it is proved that Fatima Sardar died within 7 years of her
marriage and as such first ingredient of S. 304-B IPC is duly
proved. The next most important ingredient of S. 304-B IPC is
whether deceased was treated with cruelty for demand of dowry
by her husband soon before her death and if, deceased was
subjected to such cruelty or harassment, then presumption under
S. 113B of IEA shall be raised against the accused that he had
caused dowry death. The onus then shifts upon the accused. But
the initial burden to prove that the deceased was subjected to
cruelty is on the prosecution. The prosecution in order to prove
the third important ingredient regarding subjecting the deceased
with cruelty for or in connection with demand of dowry soon

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: When his daughter refused to do the said wrong act, accused
killed her. He further deposed that accused used to demand
money and dowry from her daughter. He had given Rs. 30,000/-
in cash to deceased who further gave the same to the accused.
Accused used to beat deceased. He further deposed that he gave
the statement Ex.PW3/E to the SDM in the presence of Moshraf
@ Musaraf. 15. The concerned SDM who had recorded the
testimony Ex.PW3/E has been examined as PW11. He during his
cross-examination deposed that he does not remember whether
statement Ex.PW3/E was recorded by him. He does not
remember whether he had inquired from witness Forman about
his educational qualification. He cannot recall whether he had
inquired about the languages known to Mosaraf Laskar. He
deposed that he had not called for any official interpreter. He
admitted that he cannot vouch for the skill of Musaraf Laskar
regarding interpretation of language. From the perusal of the
testimony of PW11, doubt is created about the genuineness of the
statement recorded by him Ex.PW3/E. 16. In the present case except the testimony of PW3, the
prosecution has not examined any other person to prove the
factum of demand of dowry or consequent harassment. The
prosecution has not placed on record any complaint either by the
deceased or any of her family members regarding any
harassment at the hands of accused during the subsistence of her

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 17. The essential ingredients of the offence U/s. Section
302 IPC are as follows: a. with the intention of causing death, or
 b. that the accused knew it to be likely to cause
 death, or
 c. that the injury was sufficient in the ordinary
 course of nature to cause death. 18. The prosecution in order to prove the offence
U/s.302 IPC against the accused has to prove: 19. Now coming to the cause of death. The prosecution
in order to prove the cause of death has examined PW13 Dr. V.K.
Ranga. He proved the postmortem report of deceased as
Ex.PW13/A. He deposed that the cause of death is asphyxia
secondary to constriction of neck structure as result of
strangulation via injury mentioned in the paragraph - external
examination of his report and the same is sufficient to cause

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 20. The case of prosecution is based on the last seen
evidence and circumstantial evidence. LAST SEEN TOGETHER EVIDENCE 21. It had been argued by the Ld APP that the deceased
was living with the accused in the rented accommodation at
Sagarpur in Delhi. He is missing since the day, body of the
deceased was recovered on 06.08.2019. On the issue of last seen
together evidence, in State of Goa Vs. Sanjay Thakran , 2007
(3) Scale 740, the Supreme Court has held as follows: 22. In Ramreddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy and Anr. v.
State of Andhra Pradesh JT 2006 (4) SC 16 (para 29)] the
Court further opined that even in the cases where time gap
between the point of time when the accused and the deceased
were last seen alive and when the deceased was found dead is too
small that possibility of any person other than the accused being
the author of the crime becomes impossible, the courts should
look for some corroboration. Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran
 Kiran Gupta

 Gupta Date: 23. In the present case, no witness has been examined
by the prosecution that both accused and deceased were last seen
together on or before 06.08.2019, when the body of the deceased
was recovered from the park. Learned APP has submitted that the
deceased was residing with the accused is an important piece of
evidence. Merely because the deceased being the wife of the
accused was living with him does not proves the theory of last
seen as argued by the Ld APP in the absence of any evidence in
this regard. The prosecution has not examined any of the
neighbours or any other person residing in the building to prove
that the accused was present with the deceased in the house on
the intervening night of 05.08.2019 or was last seen with her
anytime before 06.08.2019, when her body was recovered from
the park. PW 20 and PW21 have also not deposed anything on
this aspect. In fact PW21 deposed that he had gone to his native
village in the month of May 2019. 24. The prosecution has miserably failed to prove that
the deceased and accused were last seen together anytime on or

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: before 06.08.2019. Merely because accused is the husband of the
deceased, it cannot be presumed that he was present with the
deceased on 06.08.2019 or was lastly present with her before her
death. 25. Now the case of prosecution is purely based on
circumstantial evidence. The prosecution has relied upon
following two circumstances: 26. A three−Judge Bench in Sharad Birdhichand
Sarda v. State of Maharashtra , (1984) 4 SCC 116, held as
under: 807 : SCC (Cri) p. 1047] Certainly, it is a primary
 principle that the accused must be and not merely may be
 guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance
 between 'may be' and 'must be' is long and divides vague
 conjectures from sure conclusions." only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is
 to say, they should not be explainable on any other
 hypothesis except that the accused is guilty,

 (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive
 nature and tendency,

 (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis
 except the one to be proved, and

 (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete
 as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion
 consistent with the innocence of the accused and must
 show that in all human probability the act must have been
 done by the accused. 154. These five golden principles, if we may say
 so, constitute the panchsheel of the proof of a case based
 on circumstantial evidence." CDR AND CELL ID OF MOBILE NUMBER 9711803004 27. In the present case, the accused is stated to have
been arrested on the basis of CDR details. PW7, PW9 and PW12
during their testimony have specifically deposed that on the basis
of the CDRs, they interrogated Mohd. Forman, Baki Bullah

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: Khan, Rajiul Mullah Khan, Atiyar Rehman, Jiyarul Mistri,
however, neither the CDR on the basis of which these persons
were interrogated was made part of the chargesheet nor statement
of any of the said persons have been filed with the chargesheet.
PW12 during his cross-examination deposed that the instructions
given to him were on the basis of evidence on record which is on
the file and the copies of the documents were also given to him
by the IO. It was informed that accused was husband of the
deceased and he is hiding. He does not remember whether IO
had provided him with the address and mobile number of the
accused. He does not remember whether IO had provided him
with the mobile number of Shankar Srivastava. He does not
remember when he informed Farman Sardar about the death of
his daughter. He does not remember whether IO had given him
the copy of CDRs of various numbers including that of Shankar
Srivastava prior to going to Kolkata. He does not remember what
documents were provided to him by the IO prior to leaving for
Delhi. Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 28. From the testimony of PW7, PW9 and PW12 it is
evident that they had arrested the accused on the basis of the
CDR, however, the CDR was never part of the main chargesheet.
It is not the case that the IO had obtained the CDR and the same
was sent to FSL. It is the case where the IO, though, had referred
to the CDR, however, the said CDR was never made part of the
chargesheet. It is at a much later stage when around 19 witnesses
were already examined, the IO filed the supplementary
chargesheet alongwith the statement of Mr. Surender and
Shankar Srivastava @ Biswa. Even in the main chargesheet,
there is no reference that the IO shall file the supplementary
chargesheet with the CDR. Surprisingly, the IO despite
investigating from Surender who is the landlord of accused and
deceased, neither recorded his statement at the time of filing of
the chargesheet, nor cited him as a witness in the chargesheet.
The entire investigation of the IO is based on CDR details,
however, the CDR was never filed alongwith the chargesheet. Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran
 Date: 29. Ld. Addl. PP during arguments has relied upon the
various call details from 08.08.2019 to 13.08.2019 exchanged
between PW20 Surender and the number registered in the name
of accused i.e. 9711803004 30. I have perused the call details relied upon by the ld.
Addl. PP. As discussed above, the IO in the chargesheet has
stated that he met landlord Sh. Surender Kumar and talked to Sh.
Shankar Biswa, when the identity of the deceased was revealed
by one of the callers on 17.08.2019. However, the IO had neither
cited the said caller as witness in the entire chargesheet nor in the
supplementary chargesheet. Despite the fact that IO had
interrogated / investigated about the accused and deceased from
their landlord Surender and other person namely Shankar
Srivastava @ Biswa, he had neither recorded their statements
under S. 161 Cr.P.C. nor cited them as witness in the chargesheet.
Even in the entire chargesheet, there is no mention that any calls
were made by these two persons to accused Jalil Sheikh after
08.08.2019. Though the IO in the chargesheet had stated that Sh. Surender made call to Jalil Sheikh on 08.08.2019, however,
neither any such statement was filed with the chargesheet nor the
CDR for the relevant period was filed alongwith the
charegesheet. It is subsequently in the supplementary
chargesheet which was filed on 11.05.2023 that the IO for the
first time filed the CDR of mobile number 9711803004 which is
registered in the name of accused. It is only in the supplementary
chargesheet, the IO had come up with the statement of Sh.
Surender and Shankar Srivastava @ Biswa, that they had made
various calls to the accused on his mobile number between
08.08.2019 till 13.08.2019 and thereafter and had also cited them
as witnesses. 31. The IO has failed to explain as to why he did not
record the statement of PW Surender and PW Shankar Biswa
earlier in the year 2019 and did not mention about the calls made
by these persons to accused between 08.08.2019 to 13.08.2019
and thereafter in the charge sheet. Interestingly, the IO also did
not file any CDR or Cell ID chart alongwith the charge-sheet. Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 32. At this stage, Ld. Addl. PP was critical about the
conduct of the accused as he disappeared after the murder of his
wife; he never lodged any complaint or made any efforts to know
about the well being of his wife after 05.08.2019; though he took
the defence that he was using the number 8527767976, however
he has not lead any evidence to prove that he was using the said
number. It is argued that the prosecution has discharged the initial
onus by proving the CDR of accused Ex.PW19/C and the cell ID

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran
 Kiran Gupta

 Gupta Date: 33. In Shambu Nath Mehra v. State of Ajmer AIR
1956 SC 404 it has been held that in a criminal case, the burden
of proof is on the prosecution and Section 106 is certainly not
intended to relieve it of that duty. On the contrary, it is designed
to meet certain exceptional cases in which it would be
impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult, for the
prosecution to establish facts which are "especially" within the
knowledge of the accused and which he could prove without
difficulty or inconvenience. The word "especially" stresses that.
It means facts that are pre- eminently or exceptionally within his
knowledge. If the section were to be interpreted otherwise, it
would lead to the very startling conclusion that in a murder case
the burden lies on the accused to prove that he did not commit

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: the murder because who could know better than he whether he
did or did not. 34. In Sucha Singh v. State of Punjab (2001) 4 SCC
375 ; it has been held as under: 35. In the present case, the prosecution itself has failed
to discharge the onus that the mobile No. 9711803004 was used
by the accused. Mere filing of the cell ID chart and CDR without
any corroborating evidence is a weak piece of evidence and
cannot be made the sole basis of conviction of the accused, in the
absence of any other cogent evidence. 36. The other circumstance relied upon by the
prosecution is the recovery of chunni at the instance of accused
from his house i.e. rented accommodation at Sagarpur on
29.08.2019. PW10 deposed that on 29.08.2019, he alongwith
accused, IO, HC Satish and Ct. Gajender went to the house of
accused at RZ-55/210, gali no. 2, J Block, West Sagarpur, Delhi.
At pointing out of accused, they recovered one dupatta which the
accused disclosed was used by him for strangulating the victim /
deceased. He during his cross examination deposed that when
they reached the premises of the accused on 29.08.2019, the lock
of the door was open. The room was empty except that some
garbage was lying on the floor. He further deposed that he
cannot say whether any other person was residing in the said
building or not. 37. PW20 Surender during his testimony has deposed
that on 08.08.2019, when he reached the room of accused at
Sagarpur at around 5 pm, some of the neighbors told him that
 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran
 Date: 38. The prosecution has relied upon the subsequent
opinion Ex.PW13/B. I have perused the said subsequent opinion.
It is relevant to note the testimony of PW13 on this aspect. PW13
during his cross examination deposed that no flesh of body was
found on chunni on examination. He had not examined the
chunni in respect of any finger print available on it. 39. From the testimony of PW-10, PW-20 and PW-22,
the very recovery of the chunni at the instance of accused is
doubtful. In view of the testimony of PW-13, prosecution has
failed to prove that the deceased was strangulated with chunni

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: Ex.PW10/P1. The prosecution has miserably failed to prove that
the chunni Ex.PW10/P1 was used by the accused for commission
of the murder of deceased. MOTIVE 40. In the case of Udaipal Singh v. The State of
Uttar Pradesh AIR 1972 SC 54, it was held that : Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: 41. It is no more res-integra that incidents in which the
only evidence available is circumstantial evidence, then in that
event, the motive does assume importance, if, it is established
from the evidence on record that the accused had a strong motive
and also an opportunity to commit the crime and the established
circumstances along with the explanation of the accused, if any,
exclude the reasonable possibility of anybody else being the
perpetrator of the crime then the chain of evidence may be
considered to show that within all human probability the crime
must have been committed by the accused. 42. In the present case, the prosecution has failed to lead
any evidence or prove any motive on behalf of accused to cause
murder of his wife. CONCLUSION 43. In the present case, there is no eye witness to the
incident. As discussed above, the case of prosecution is entirely
based on circumstantial evidence. In cases based entirely on
 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: circumstantial evidence, the Court has to satisfy itself that the
prosecution proves each circumstance alleged against the accused
beyond reasonable doubt and also further proves that each link in
the chain of circumstances, equally, beyond reasonable doubt.
Further, the Court has to always bear in mind that the
circumstances proved should be so strong as to unerringly point
to the guilt of the accused and none else and lastly that even a
single hypothesis of innocence is ruled out ( Reliance placed on Hanumant v. The State of Madhya Pradesh ; AIR 1952 SC
343 and Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra : 44. In the present case, the prosecution has failed to
establish its case beyond the pales of reasonable doubt against
the accused. The case of prosecution is based on suspicion. It is
settled law that the suspicion, however strong it may be, cannot
take the place of proof beyond reasonable doubt. An accused
cannot be convicted on the ground of suspicion, no matter how
strong it is. An accused is presumed to be innocent unless proved

 Digitally
 signed by
 Kiran Kiran Gupta
 Date: guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. In the present case, the
prosecution has utterly failed to establish the chain of events
which can be said to exclusively lead to the one and only
conclusion i.e. the guilt of the accused. On the basis of above
discussion, in the absence of any reliable incriminating evidence,
benefit of doubt goes in favor of the accused. He is acquitted for
the offence under S. 302 / 201 IPC also. The accused is acquitted for all the offences
under S. 498A / 304B / 302 / 201 IPC
 File be consigned to record room.