On November 30, 2023, India’s Central Consumer Protection Authority notified guidelines for the prevention and regulation of dark patterns deployed in advertisements and user interface of apps, and websites of e-commerce platforms.

The Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) first published draft guidelines for tackling dark patterns in September 2023, after a two-month-long consultation with stakeholders including e-commerce platforms, law firms, government and other consumer protection organisations. Amongst the first stakeholders to be consulted was the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI). Additionally, in June 2023, ASCI adopted new guidelines for ‘Online Deceptive Design Patterns in Advertising’ to address problems caused by dark patterns in online advertising.

MediaNama spoke to Manisha Kapoor, Chief Executive Officer and Secretary General, ASCI, to understand the factors that distinguish dark patterns in advertising and those in products and services, and to discuss challenges related to identification of dark patterns and enforcement of the guidelines.

Watch the full interview here:

Here’s a complete transcript of the interview:

MediaNama: What called for separate guidelines specifically for dark patterns? Are there any evidential studies/reports from India that show a rise in user complaints regarding deceitful selling patterns deployed by online platforms?

Manisha Kapoor: I would say the patterns or the guidelines for dark patterns is really under the larger umbrella of what could be considered misleading advertisements. So that’s an existing guideline that ASCI has been working on, in fact, for several years and decades, which is the guidelines on misleading advertisements. However, from time to time, as we see certain newer formats or certain newer patterns in the market, it becomes important for us to also develop specific guidelines around that. While misleading advertisements is the larger umbrella, around which, as I said, ASCI has had guidelines for many years, but some specific cases or situations need to be interpreted for misleadingness or other challenges, and which is where we bring out the sector-specific or the issue-specific guidelines.

MediaNama: ‘Interface Interference’ is a specified dark pattern under the guidelines. In this, platforms may use different design elements to manipulate user choices, for example a in-app options/dialogue boxes leading a user to advertisements rather than their page of choice, using different colours to hide specific options, etc. However, the ASCI has not specified it as a dark pattern in its guidelines. What really distinguishes dark patterns in advertising from those in apps and products?

Manisha Kapoor: There’s obviously a fine line between the two. From an ASCI perspective, given that our mandate is to look at only advertising as a subject, and therefore we restrict ourselves to dark patterns which are to do with advertising. However, dark patterns are present in areas which are much beyond advertising as well. If you look at the Department of Consumer Affairs, they have a slightly larger mandate on misleading practices and consumer protection, whereas our mandate is a little bit narrower. What we have done is to restrict our guidelines to the dark patterns that are more prevalent in advertising, whereas the department would look at dark patterns which also occur beyond just advertising.

MediaNama: Similarly, when someone is trying to avail a loan, banks ask them to agree to mandatory conditions that enable them to collect a user’s personal data for marketing purposes. A user cannot proceed without ticking these boxes. Will this ‘forced action’ be categorised as a dark pattern? These conditions also raise privacy issues and in such cases of overlaps, whom should the consumer reach out to?

Manisha Kapoor: This is definitely an example of a dark pattern, unless the data that is sought is part of the service or the service cannot be completed without having that data, that’s number one. The second thing is also, what else will that data be used for? And I think, therefore, the DPDP Act, which is coming in will be the most comprehensive in terms of privacy issues. There are different parts of regulation and laws that do have overlaps. For example, misleading ads are there and Department of Consumer Affairs looks at it, but the misleading ad is about a health issue, then even the health department will get involved. Each department does different mechanisms. There is always going to be an overlap amongst different regulators, and each of them has the mechanism. The consumer does have a choice as to which of these forms to tap into. And we will have different kinds of remedies for different kinds of complaints and the nature of the complaint. But yes, I think the overlaps are to be expected, and there is really nothing wrong with them in that sense. It gives the consumers also multiple options in terms of where they could go for complaint-free based on them.

MediaNama: “False urgency” is a specified dark pattern in the guidelines. This includes practices like describing a sale to be exclusive, showing false popularity or demand of a product. For example, when a user is looking for hotel rooms, all platforms these days display the number of rooms left and the number of people looking at an available room. How can a user determine whether such claims made by a particular company are false or not, to even report it in the first place?

MediaNama: That is certainly one of the challenges in dark patterns that consumers are not always able to identify them very easily. I think there are a couple of things with this. One is [that] the consumer may notice, let’s say, that they come back a day later and let’s say more rooms are available than were available the previous day. That could be one way in which they could identify potentially that what I saw yesterday seems to be different than what I’m seeing today. The price seemed to be higher because there were limited seats, let’s say, even in an airline or in a hotel. Today, a day later, there suddenly seem to be many more. Now, that could also be because of genuine reasons. Let’s assume there’s been cancellations, et cetera, but the consumer could observe that and at least raise a complaint. Then the investigation will reveal whether that was just misleading information that was given or was that a genuine case? Those are some of the ways in which consumers could identify patterns. Or let’s say you are signing up to something or you’ve been pre-opted into something which incurs a higher expense. I think those are the dark patterns which may be a little bit easier for consumers to directly identify.

But yes, I think the challenge with dark patterns is that we really need platform-forward designs to be ethical in the first place. That’s really the actual solution to many of these things. And yes, by driving awareness, by bringing in guidelines and regulation, I think we are moving to a place where platforms also know that should they be called out on something like this…from time to time, regulators may undertake audits of some of the top websites, et cetera. So there are ways in which we can further the agenda. The consumer also has a role. But yes, I agree with you that it may not always be possible for consumers to identify that they have been the victims of dark patterns until maybe it’s too late.

MediaNama: What are the different levels for reporting grievances and will the burden of determining whether the reported deceitful practice is a dark pattern or not fall on the complainant?

Manisha Kapoor: The consumers have to report why they think it’s a dark pattern and what is the instance that they have observed. But the evidence, we will ask from the advertiser or the company or the platform, because only they can provide that information on whether, let’s say, stock was at a particular state or not, or in terms of just the online architecture, in terms of choice architecture, et cetera—those are things which obviously the platform will be able to respond to and not consumers.

MediaNama: What are the types of dark patterns that could apply to content produced by influencers and endorsers? How would that be regulated?

Manisha Kapoor: I think the most prevalent dark pattern in influencers and content creators is disguised advertising. That is one of the dark patterns that we see, where you’re not disclosing that what you have created is actually an advertisement and consumers don’t know that they’re watching an advertisement. They think they’re watching organic content. That is one of the most prevalent dark patterns in influencer advertising. We [ASCI] had, as you know, in 2021, we brought out the guidelines for influencers. Now the Department of Consumer Affairs also end of last year brought out their own guidelines. Both of the guidelines are quite similar in terms of their approach and requirements. These are areas that have been worked on in the past. It’s not as if these are completely new. I think you are seeing more of these patterns, which collectively one is also looking at. But yes, I would say that this [misleading] advertising is the most prevalent dark pattern when it comes to influencers.

MediaNama: Are the guidelines applicable for non-Indian businesses that offer goods and services in India through an e-commerce platform or from foreign sellers doing their business on Instagram and Facebook marketplaces?

Manisha Kapoor: Yeah, because I think so long as Indian consumers are impacted, and if you are selling your products and services or advertising to consumers in India, then you have to follow the laws of the land. We have had cases where there’s an influencer who is not based in India, but their content and their followers come largely from India, so then they have to be in compliance with Indian laws. So basically, ASCI’s mandate and the mandate of the Department of Consumer Affairs is to protect Indian consumers. There is an offering that is going out to them that would come under something like this.

MediaNama: Will platforms have to proactively monitor content for dark patterns in advertising? Similarly, what kind of challenges will product designers face while designing the interface of an app?

Manisha Kapoor: Yeah, I think platforms will have to and should be monitoring already. For example, there are reviews that are coming in. So, you already have the review from a verified purchaser. But we also know the existence of so many of these scam websites where an advertiser can pay money and get reviews, and those views could be posted on e-commerce sites…These are also the platform’s consumers, they don’t want the consumers on the platform to be taken for a ride. I think the idea is that any consumer should be able to make an informed choice based on correct information provided to them. In fact, platform-forward technology, UI/UX design is the primary resolution to this issue. Like I said, once it’s done, it’s actually very difficult to even identify to know case by case what is, let’s say, there are 2,000 reviews. Now, which of them are paid or not paid is something which the platform is in a much better position to control what reviews are coming on it. How are the reviews coming? Are these verified through someone who has actually purchased things online, et cetera?

Even in the case of, let’s say, influencer advertising, the platforms design tool for influencers to declare. You have paid partnership tools or those kinds of things. I feel that progressive platforms and progressive companies would take into account when they actually do the UI/UX designing and do that in an ethical way rather than confuse the consumers to make choices that they would rather not. I think the future of this definitely is in ethical UI/UX design.

MediaNama: Businesses also conduct A/B testing, wherein two versions of the same webpage or element of a page can be used for assessing what works best on their website interface. What kind of checks and balances will businesses have to consider while undertaking such design experiments?

Manisha Kapoor: I don’t think that per se is a problem at all. You can have 10 different ads and test them in 10 different ways as long as all 10 of them are honest, it doesn’t matter. The issue is not really of A/B testing or having multiple creators or having multiple UI/UX designs. The question is, are some of them dishonest and some of them honest? And that’s the minimum standard that needs to be adhered to. You can do 2,000 tests, it doesn’t matter as long as all of them are ethical, all of them are above board. None of them compromise the rights of the consumers. I mean, to me, A/B testing or multiple testing that’s not a dark pattern in itself.

MediaNama: Could you please give an example of what an “honest or genuine” practice in terms of A/B testing or other design experiments would look like?

Manisha Kapoor: Per se, testing practise is not a problem. But let’s say you have a UI/UX design which hides material information. Let’s say this is going to cost you something or that the cancellation of this will be very complex versus another creative that you have or another design that you have which lays that out more upfront. If the difference in the two designs is that one is ethical and one is not, or one uses dark patterns and other does not, and let’s say the ones that use dark patterns gives you a better result, a better consumer engagement, but you are obtaining that engagement through deceit. You are obtaining that engagement through an unethical way. That is not a fair comparison. Versus let’s say if you have two UI/UX designs, both of them do not hide the information, but let’s say it’s presented in a different way. Maybe the navigation and the way that consumers read that information is presented. And there, let’s say one does better than another. So long as neither of them uses manipulative techniques to coerce consumers or to lead consumers down, where they end up paying more. So long as there is transparency in what is being put out, choices are not being subdued or repressed. I think those are issues which are absolutely fine.

MediaNama: Stakeholders have also talked about over-monitoring leading to censorship of legitimate content and may affect user choices. In what ways can platforms and businesses address such concerns?

Manisha Kapoor: I think the best solutions actually will be with the platforms. If they are able to also address these concerns through technology interventions, through design of more ethical UI/UX designs, to me, the problem needs to be stemmed at its root, which is saying that if you have designs that are more transparent, if you have the choice architecture, which is fairer to consumers, then actually these challenges would not arise in the first place. We should look for platforms and e-commerce sites, et cetera, to actually build that into their design. That is the long-term solution of this. It’s not for someone to come and monitor and say, because you’ll monitor, maybe you’ll do audits, you’ll do things like that. But the idea of ethical UI/UX design, I think, is at the centre of this discussion. And what is really the intention of that platform? Is it to get consumers through unethical means? What is it they want to get consumers through ethical means? Then you need to design your interfaces in a way that allow the consumer to make informed choices, allow them to see all the choices that are available, well in time in that journey, you are making them aware of what the consequences of that may be. I think those are the ethical UI/UX design needs, [that] is what will combat dark patterns.

MediaNama: There are concerns about the guidelines affecting ease of doing business and competition, due to greater regulatory scrutiny. What are your thoughts on it?

Manisha Kapoor: That is true…no one is denying that, but I think the opportunity to self-regulate is there. I mean, just because there’s a regulation, it does not mean that you cannot self-regulate. What does self-regulation mean? It just means that you yourself decide what your boundaries are. If you have decided what your boundaries are, and in principle, they are similar to the boundaries that the law has laid down, you can for yourself decide the standards, and they just need to make sure that they are not below industry standards or the standards of law. So, regulation does not mean that self-regulation does not exist or has no role. In fact, to me, regulation means that you need to be stronger in self-regulation. You need to be able to do things the right way, because if you don’t, then of course, there is a law. But to me, it’s a notch towards self-regulation.

MediaNama: Dark patterns by definition apply for online platforms, but when it comes to advertising specifically, has ASCI dealt with similar complaints about brick-and-mortar businesses?

Manisha Kapoor: We have not yet come across a complaint, or at least no consumer has made a complaint to us about this. But of course, misleading ads, which is what consumers primarily see, and they could be point-of-sale material, it could be an ad of a company that you see in a newspaper, et cetera, or on television, or on your screens. I mean, those can all be complained against. To us, again, it is not the format. It could be a digital ad, it could be a print ad. It is the principle of what that ad is saying, which is more critical. So, whether it’s a brick-and-mortar organisation or an online platform, if what they’re saying is the truth, then that’s fine. But if they are misrepresenting, whether it is a virtual organisation or a brick-and-mortar organisation, then the same rules apply. I think it’s the principle of the rules that apply irrespective of the format of the organisation or the advertiser.

MediaNama: That means users can still approach the concerned authority to report practises when they have been deceived offline. For example, there are businesses which ask for contact and other personal details from users to provide services. And these have been defined as forced action under the guidelines. But there are a number of shops that collect these details offline, but use them digitally. Will it still be considered as an online dark pattern?

Manisha Kapoor: It’s a combination, whether data is collected or not, but eventually used online. And to me, again, the DPDP Act will be, in a sense a governing Act, at least on privacy and data issues. It delves into this matter in-depth. Whereas for us, it is one of the things that we will look at. Also, from ASCI’s point of view…because the wrong has been done in the product or service or the delivery or transaction, that will not come under ASCI’s remit. But yes, the government can certainly look into that. There is a National helpline by the Department of Consumer Affairs for consumers. Those are the forums where complaints like this could also be resolved.

MediaNama: There’s nothing mentioned about grievance redressal mechanisms in the guidelines. Will platforms be asked to establish grievance redressal facilities and under what law/rules?

Manisha Kapoor: That’s something for the government to mandate or not. ASCI cannot mandate an industry to have certain grievance mechanism. We are not a statutory body, so we can’t mandate that. Usually, most of these grievance mechanisms have multiple tiers. It’s something for the government to consider and see whether that would be useful or what purpose that would serve. But yeah, typically, organisations do have a little bit of their own mechanism as well, and I think that is a good first step because that gets resolved usually quicker, it’s less burden for the consumers. I would say that to me, it makes sense for an organisation to have this mechanism as well.

MediaNama: The guidelines do not mention any penalties for non-compliance. What will happen if the platforms do not comply?

Manisha Kapoor: Guideline does not have to come with its own penalties. And I’m talking of the government guidelines now, ASCI, as you know, asks for voluntary compliance, we don’t levy penalties. But the penalties are laid down under the Consumer Protection Act already. So, there are no separate penalties for this. Whatever penalties that have been laid out under the Act will be applicable to all misleading ads and unfair trade practices under which they have looked at this issue.

MediaNama: What challenges do you foresee in enforcing regulations against dark patterns in advertising vs other design elements of a platform interface?

Manisha Kapoor: We discussed some of the challenges in the past…[regarding] UI/UX designs that we are looking at, I think those are the issues and challenges that we will take a look at in terms of regulation, in terms of self-regulation…digital advertising in general, it is tricky. There are new developments every day in technology and how platforms are looking at information and data. I think this is an evolving field. Dark patterns are one of the new or emerging topics in this. I’m sure there will be many more. This is something which I think as a topic will keep evolving. Regulators will also get smarter. We’ll also start to look at technology investments in monitoring and both monitoring as well as preventing these patterns.

MediaNama: One of the industry associations, in its comments to the draft guidelines for dark patterns, has recommended that advertisers must be obligated to set up grievance redressal mechanisms like platforms need to do so under the IT Rules. What are your thoughts on it? Also, if it were to happen, would it create ambiguities about whom to approach if a user has a complaint?

Manisha Kapoor: I’m not very clear on this because through ASCI, for example, there is already a well-established grievance mechanism against advertising. I’m not completely sure on what is the intent of this extra mechanism, because I think the existing mechanisms are quite strong in this area.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event