1. The present application is filed under Section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for regular bail in
connection with the FIR being C.R. No.11208044202185 of
2020 registered with the Pradhyuman Nagar Police Station, Page 1 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

Rajkot of the offence punishable under Sections 447 , 386 , 323 , 504 , 506(2) and 120B of the IPC and Sections 3(1)(i), 3(1)(ii),
3(2), 3(4) and 4 of The Gujarat Control of Terrorism and
Organized Crime Act, 2015 (for short "GUJCTOC Act") 2. Learned advocate Mr. Virat Popat appearing for the
applicant has submitted that the first information report has
been registered against the applicant-accused on 03.12.2020
and the applicant-accused came to be arrested on 04.12.2020
and since then he is in jail. It is alleged in the first information
report that the so called incident has occurred during the
period between 2011 and 2020. It is further submitted that the
investigation has already been completed and charge-sheet
has also been filed in the present case. Learned advocate Mr.
Popat has also submitted that initially the first information
report came to be filed against total eleven persons and the
applicant-accused is shown as an accused No.5 in the FIR.
Learned advocate Mr. Popat has also submitted that total
twelve offences have been registered against the applicant-
accused and out of those twelve offences, two offences have
been registered after the promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act and
rest of the offences were registered during the period between
2007 and 2016. All the offences are personal in nature.
Learned advocate Mr. Popat has further submitted that the co-
accused persons who have committed offence of causing
bodily injuries, offence of loot, robbery and land grabbing on
behalf of the syndicate have already been enlarged on bail by
a Coordinate Bench of this Court. One co-accused person
namely Majid @ Pappu Suleman who is considered to be the Page 2 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

right hand of the gang leader has also been enlarged on bail.
It is further submitted that the applicant-accused had filed an
application against the syndicate leader as well as members
of the syndicate in the year 2016. The two offences upon
which reliance is being placed by the Investigating Agency
which came to be registered after the promulgation of the Act
have no connection whatsoever with the Organized Crime
Syndicate. Both these offences are standalone offence and
even one of the offences registered with the Pradhyuman
Nagar Police Station was registered by the wife of one of the
co-accused. There are no offences of the applicant-accused
with the syndicate. Learned advocate Mr. Popat has further
submitted that the continuance of unlawful activity means that
an activity prohibited by law carried out singly or jointly on
behalf of the syndicate. The material consideration is whether
the activity is undertaken on behalf of the syndicate or not. It
is further submitted that the GUJCTOC Act is aimed to target
individuals who are connected and concerned with the
organized crime syndicate and not meant for the purpose of
individual who commits standalone offences. In short, in order
to prosecute a person under the provisions of the GUJCTOC
Act, there has to be some activity concerning syndicate after
the promulgation of the Act which is missing in the present
case. It is further submitted that the applicant-accused had
also filed an application against the syndicate leader as well
as members of the syndicate in the year 2016 and thereafter
in the year 2020 which clearly reveals that the applicant-
accused is no longer associated with the said syndicate.
Assuming for a moment for the sake of argument that had he Page 3 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

been slightly connected with the members of the organized
syndicate, in that event, he would not have registered the
complaint against the members of the gang and the said fact
itself is self-explanatory that the present applicant-accused is
not at all associated with the members of the gang. It is further
submitted that there is no recovery or discovery at the
instance of the applicant-accused. Only because the present
applicant-accused has filed complaint against the members of
the gang, just with a view to wreck vengeance, statements are
being made by certain co-accused persons and on the basis
of such statements, the applicant-accused has been implicated
in the present offence. 2.1 In support of his aforesaid submissions, learned advocate
Mr. Tolia has relied upon the following decisions; i) In the case State of Gujarat vs. Sandip Omprakash Gupta ,
reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 1727; ii) In the case of State of Maharashtra & Ors. Vs. Lalit
Somdatta Nagpal & Anr. , reported in (2007) SCC 171; iii) In the case Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma vs. State
of Maharashtra , reported in (2005) 5 SCC 294; 3. In such circumstances , referred to above , learned
advocate Mr. Popat prays that the applicant may be enlarged
on bail on any suitable terms and conditions. 4. The learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin appearing
on behalf of the respondent-State has opposed grant of regular Page 4 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

bail looking to the nature and gravity of the offence. Learned
Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin submits that the present applicant-
accused is the real brother of the leader of the Organized
Crime Syndicate and the said gang is indulged in doing illegal
activities like extortion of money, land grabbing, contract
killing and economical offences etc. and they are doing the
said illegal activities since long. Number of cases have been
registered against the members of the said syndicate. It is
further submitted that all the accused persons are in constant
touch with each other and the said fact is clearly found out
from the Call Data Record collected by the Investigating Officer
during the course of investigation. Learned Public Prosecutor
Mr. Amin has also submitted that during the course of
investigation, confessional statement of the gang leader was
recorded by the Investigating Officer wherein he has very
categorically stated about the individual role played by the
individual accused person and they are running the said
syndicate since long. It is further submitted that there is a
misconception with regard to invocation of the provisions of
the GUJCTOC Act in respect of the members of the Organized
Crime Syndicate. For the sake of argument, assuming for a
moment, that the complaint is registered against ten persons
and out of those ten persons, if some of the members are
indulged into continuing unlawful activity and they fall under
the definition of the continuing unlawful activity and there is no
first information report filed against rest of the accused
persons after the promulgation of the Act, but during the
course of investigation, some incriminating material and
specific nexus between the members of the organized crime Page 5 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

syndicate is found out, in that event, the provisions of the
GUJCTOC Act can also be invoked against those accused
persons as an abettor as per the provisions of Section 2(1)(a)
of the Act though no FIR has been filed against them after
promulgation of the Act. 5. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Mitesh Amin has heavily
relied upon the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar v. the State of Maharashtra & Ors ,
rendered in Criminal Appeal No.1125 of 2022, and submitted
that so far as the controversy involved in the present case, the
aforesaid judgment will hold the field. Learned Public
Prosecutor Mr. Amin refers to the provisions of Section 2(1)(a)
of the GUJCTOC Act and submits that so far as the act of 'abet'
is concerned, any facilitation of commission of organized
crime would amount to abetting the offence of organized
crime. Learned Public Prosecutor further submits that one may
be a principal offender and remaining persons of the syndicate
would be the members of the syndicate but if some offence is
committed by any accused person and someone has merely
conspired and has committed some act of a nature of
conspiracy then that section will be attracted. Learned Public
Prosecutor Mr. Amin further submits that thereafter the gravity
of the offence also need to be seen while dealing with the
application of bail. Learned Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin further
submits that when the Court examines the term 'continuing
unlawful activity', there has to be more than one offence
where the cognizance has been taken. Mr. Amin further
submits that say for example if there are 10 members in an Page 6 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

organized crime syndicate and one is the leader of the
syndicate and others are the members then it is not
prerequisite that against all the 10 members there has to be
more than one offence requires to be registered and wherein
cognizance is being taken by the competent Court. Learned
Public Prosecutor Mr. Amin has, at this juncture, relied upon
the observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in para 77
and 78 in the case of Zakir Abdul Mirajkar (supra) and
submitted that in the aforesaid case, it has been specifically
observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that, 'it is settled law
that more than one charge sheet is required to be filed in
respect of the organized crime syndicate and not in respect of
each person who is alleged to be a member of such a
syndicate'. 6. Therefore, as per the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
Court in the above referred decision, simply on the basis of
non-registration of the FIR or less number of cases registered
against some of the members of the syndicate after or before
the promulgation of the GUJCTOC Act, those persons cannot be
absolved from the clutches of the provisions of the said Act.
Therefore, considering the above stated factual aspects, this
is a fit case wherein discretionary power of this Court is not
required to be exercised in favour of the applicant-accused. 7. I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf
of the respective parties and perused the papers of the
investigation and considered the allegations levelled against
the applicant and the role played by the applicant. It is found
out from the record that at the time of invoking provisions of Page 7 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

GUJCTOC against the applicant-accused, the Investigating
Officer has put much emphasis upon 12 offences registered
against the applicant-accused. 8. Before adverting to the issue involved in the present
case, I would like to refer to and rely upon the following
decisions rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court. In the case of State of Gujarat v. Sandip Omprakash Gupta rendered in
Criminal Appeal No.2291 of 2022, in para 51(f) & (g), the
Hon'ble Apex Court has observed as under: NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined 9. In the case of Mukeshbhai Vallabhbhai Abhangi v.
the State of Gujarat, Criminal Appeal No.1391 of 2023, the
Hon'ble Apex Court has observed in para nos. 7 and 8 as
under: 10. In the case of Anilbhai @ Mehtaji Dineshbhai
Dangariya v. The State of Gujarat , rendered in Criminal
Appeal No.3286 of 2023, the Hon'ble Apex Court has observed
in para no. 9 as under: 11. Now, I would like to refer to the relevant provisions of the
GUJCTOC Act. Sections 2(1)(a) provides as under: and (iii)the rendering of any assistance, whether financial
 or otherwise, to the organised crime syndicate for
 committing an offence under this Act;" 12. Sections 2(1)(c) provides as under: 13. Sections 2(1)(e) provides as under: 14. Section 2(1)(f) provides as under: 15. Section 3(1)(ii) reads as under; "In any other case, be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
 than five years but which may extent to
 imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine
 which shall not be less than rupees five lakhs." 16. Considering the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the aforesaid decisions and considering the aforesaid
provisions of GUJCTOC Act as well as period of incarceration Page 11 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

undergone by the applicant accused, I am inclined to consider
the bail application of the applicant accused without discussing
anything on merits and demerits of the matter. 17. From a bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions, it clearly
appears that to constitute an offence under the GUJCTOC Act,
more than one charge-sheets need to be filed before a
competent court within the preceding period of ten years
which is a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for
a term of three years or more, undertaken either singly or
jointly as a member of an organized crime syndicate or on
behalf of such syndicate and that court has taken cognizance
of such offence. From the materials available on record, it
appears that out of the 12 offences relied upon by the
Investigating Agency, only two offences have been registered
after the promulgation of the Act. Both these offences appear
to be standalone offences and have no connection with the
syndicate. Moreover, in one of the offences, the complainant is
the wife of one of the members of the said syndicate. Even the
applicant-accused had also filed a complaint against the
members of the syndicate in the year 2016 and 2020 which
clearly goes on to show that the applicant-accused is no longer
associated with the said Organized Crime Syndicate otherwise
he would not have filed the complaint against his gang
members. The true and correct interpretation of the said Act is
that to charge the accused under the provisions of the
GUJCTOC Act, there has to be fresh activity after the
amalgamation of the Act on behalf of the syndicate. Here, in
the present case, out of the twelve FIRs, ten offences were Page 12 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

registered before the promulgation of the Act and two
offences were registered after the promulgation of the Act and
both the offences appear to be standalone offences which have
no connection with the organized crime syndicate. Even, in one
offence the complaint has been filed by the wife of one of the
gang members. It is also pertinent to note that the other two
co-accused persons charged with the graver offences have
already been released on bail by the Coordinate Bench of this
Court. It also appears that the applicant-accused has been
arraigned as an accused only on the basis of the statement
made by the other co-accused. There is also no recovery or
discovery at the instance of the applicant-accused. 18. A close analysis of the term "organized crime" would
indicate that there has to be an activity prohibited by law for
the time being in force which is cognizable offence punishable
with imprisonment for three years or more, undertaken as
singly or jointly as a member of organized crime syndicate or
on behalf of such syndicate in respect of which activity more
than one charge-sheets have been filed before a competent
court within the preceding period of ten years and court has
taken cognizance of such offence. Here in the case on hand,
there appears to be two FIRs registered against the applicant-
accused after the enactment of the said Act, in which, one of
the FIRs has been filed by the wife of the gang member and
another pertains to an absolute private dispute as no syndicate
member is the accused in the said FIR. Furthermore, the Page 13 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/3010/2023 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 11/12/2023

 undefined

applicant-accused is in jail almost since last more than three
years and recently the Hon'ble Apex Court has considered the
bail application of the accused keeping in mind the period of
incarceration of two years already undergone by the accused.
Thus, I am of the view that the present bail application of the
applicant deserves consideration. 19. This Court has also taken into consideration the law laid
down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay
Chandra v. Central Bureau of Investigation , reported in
[2012]1 SCC 40. 20. In the facts and circumstances of the case and
considering the nature of the allegations made against the
applicant in the FIR, without discussing the evidence in detail,
prima facie, this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit case to
exercise the discretion and enlarge the applicant on regular
bail. 21. Hence, the present application is allowed and the
applicant is ordered to be released on regular bail in
connection with the FIR being C.R. No.11208044202185 of
2020 registered with the Pradhyuman Nagar Police Station,
Rajkot, on executing a personal bond of Rs.15,000/- (Rupees
Fifteen Thousand only) with one surety of the like amount to
the satisfaction of the trial Court and subject to the conditions
that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse
 liberty; [b] not act in a manner injuries to the interest of the
 prosecution; permission of the Sessions Judge concerned; [e] mark presence before the concerned Police Station
 on alternate Monday of every English calendar
 month for a period of six months between
 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.; 22. The authorities will release the applicant only if he is not
required in connection with any other offence for the time
being. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed,
the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue warrant or
take appropriate action in the matter. 23. Bail bond to be executed before the lower Court having
jurisdiction to try the case. It will be open for the concerned
Court to delete, modify and/or relax any of the above
conditions, in accordance with law. 24. At the trial, the trial Court shall not be influenced by the
observations of preliminary nature qua the evidence at this
stage made by this Court while enlarging the applicant on bail.
Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)
VAHID Page 15 of 15 Downloaded on : Mon Dec 11 20:46:39 IST 2023