1. The Husband
against the dismissal of this H.M.O.P.1007 of 1988 on the file of Principal Family Court, Madras, under Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 praying for a decree of nullity by annulling the marriage solemnised between the appellant and the respondent on 8-3-1987 at Madras is the appellant in the above appeal before this Court. 2. The case of the appellant is briefly stated hereunder:-- 3. The respondent filed counter with the following contentions:-- She has admitted the marriage. Due to the greedy behaviour and delaying tactics of the appellant to extract more money, gold jewels and assets from the respondent's parents, all the assets were handed over to him before the celebration of the marriage. She has denied all the other averments relating to furnishing of bio-data and particulars relating to her. She further averred that her elder brother V. Lakshminarayanan and her elder sister-in-law

V. Latha on 15-2-1987 when giving invitations for the marriage, informed the appellant's parents that the respondent's year of birth was 1961. As instructed by the petitioner /appellant's father, the appellant came to Hyderabad on 22-2-87, who was then working in Kainadu and telephoned to respondent's residence to know the age of the respondent. As desired by the appellant, the respondent accompanied by her second brother went to Paradise Cinema premises in Secunderabad and thereafter, both the appellant and the respondent went to Hotel Asrani International at about 7.30 p.m., on 22-2-87. and the respondent gave all information to the petitioner/appellant about her year of birth of 1961 and years of passing her S.S.L.C., Inter and M.B.B.S. (Homoeo) examinations. The appellant was very much satisfied and he did not raise any objection for celebrating the marriage in the first week of March, 1987. Thereafter, neither the appellant nor his father raised any talk with the respondent's father about her date of birth. The respondent has given Streedhana for a total value of Rs. 1,59,995/- to the appellant between November, 1986 till 8-3-1987 and thereafter up to 8-11-1987 in the form of cash, gold and silver articles, silk sarees, house-hold articles etc., by their parents as agreed upon in the presence of mediator. On 15-3-87 when the appellant along with his parents visited respondent's house at Hyderabad to attend a reception, they again demanded additional amount of Rs. 10,000/- and left respondent at Hyderabad and went away in anger. On 2-7-87 a sum of Rs. 5,000/- was paid to the appellant by way of cash and another sum of Rs. 2,500/- by way of Demand Draft. Still they were not satisfied. She further averred that when the respondent went to the appellant's house in June, 1987 and lived in their house for about a month, they did not raise any objection about her date of birth. On the other hand, the appellant demanded further amounts and sent the respondent away to her father's house by refusing to set up a family at Nellore. Again, the appellant demanded further amounts, besides his father wrote separate letters demanding more amounts and gold chain from the respondent's father. During the short stay with the appellant, she was ill-treated by the appellant as well as by his father. On 7-11-87 the respondent's father and her elder brother gave another sum of Rs. 7,500/- and gold chain and all educational certificates as desired by her husband. On 8-11-87 the appellant asked the respondent to go to her father's house. Thereupon the respondent is living at Ammerpet, Hyderabad, by getting help of her father. The respondent wrote several letters to the appellant and his parents to join the petitioner/ appellant, besides herself and mediators went to appellant's house on 12-12-1987 and on 17-1-1988 for which the appellant refused. A negative reply was sent for the lawyer's notice given in May, 1988. Thereupon, the respondent filed maintenance case under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in Mahila Court, Hyderabad. On 16-8-88 an order of interim maintenance at Rs. 300/- per month was passed. Thereafter, the appellant filed the present case as a counter blast to respondent's M.C. No. 285 of 1988. It is also averred that after knowing the views of the astrologer from the appellant's side, the respondent and her father enquired the same and ascertained that there is nothing wrong in the respondent's horoscope and the appellant would not be affected due to the impact of her horoscope. The same thing was conveyed to the appellant's father after ascertaining the second opinion from the Crystal Computing Centre, No. 11, 2nd Street, Madras-86. Hence the allegation that the wife is not having Mangalyabalam is denied and there is no basts and proof. The marriage could not be annulled on the ground of over age, since the respondent is younger to the appellant with reference to the appellant's horoscope given by him and in accordance with his date of birth. The respondent is not suffering from any disease. After sending the respondent out, the husband has filed the present case inflicting more harassment and legal cruelty to the respondent. Absolutely there is no ground for declaring the marriage null and void, hence she prays for dismissal of the case. 4. The appellant was examined as P.W.1 and he has marked 24 documents as Exs.P-1 to P-24. On the side of the respondent,

she was examined as R.W.1 and Exs.R-1 to R-29 were marked. 5. According to the appellant/husband/ the basic thing for filing the present petition is that his consent was obtained by giving wrong date of birth of the respondent/wife prior to the date of marriage. He further contended that if the said fact is known, namely, the true date of birth as 6-1-61, he could not have given consent because the difference of age is only few months. The date of birth of the husband is 24-4-60 and the age of the wife, as seen from Ex.R-20, is 6-1-1961. In those circumstance, we have to find out whether the consent of the appellant has been obtained by fraud and so the marriage has been annulled by a decree of nullity. It is the evidence of P.W.I that under Exs.P-5, P-6 and P-7, the father of the wife informed that the date of birth of the respondent is 15-2-1963 and on that basis, consent of the husband has been obtained, on the other hand, the correct date of birth is 6-1-1961, as admitted in Exs.P-1, P-3 and P-4. As far as this aspect, even the court below, on the basis of Exs.P-5, P-6 and P-7, which are letters written by the father of the respondent to the father of the appellant and in the light of the oral evidence of P.W.1 and R.W.I, came to the conclusion that consent of the petitioner/ appellant was obtained on the basis that the respondent was born on 15-2-1963. Since this aspect is found by the court below in favour of the petitioner/ appellant, there is no need for us to elaborate once again. 6. Now we have to consider the case of the respondent that the appellant was made aware of the correct date of birth as 6-1-1961 prior to the date of marriage on 8-3-87. For this, the respondent has very much relied on the necessary averment made in her counter affidavit filed before the court below, which is extracted hereunder:-- - Admittedly there is no reply affidavit by the petitioner/appellant disputing the above mentioned specific averments found in para 5 of the counter. In the same way, the respondent, wife as R.W.I deposed in chief examination thus:-- Again she deposed,
 "Exs.P-5 and P-6 were not given by my father with any intention to cheat my husband or defraud my husband or my husband's party. It was sent by mistake. On 15-2-1987 my brother brought to the notice of my

father-in-law that the real date of birth was 6-1-1961 and to my husband on 22-2-1987 at Hyderabad by" me at Hotel Asrani International. Before the date of marriage my husband and my father-in-law knew the truth." In the light of the specific pleadings in the counter affidavit, which has not been denied by way of filing a reply by the husband, as well as the oral evidence of the wife that the appellant was aware of the correct date of birth as 6-1-1961 prior to the date of marriage, i.e., on 8-3-87, it is not open to the appellant to contend that his consent was obtained fraudulently. It is not the case of the appellant that the said V. Lakshminarayanan is not the elder brother of R.W.1 (wife) and V. Latha is not the elder sister-in-law of R.W.1. At this stage it is relevant to mention the admission of the appellant in the cross-examination, namely,
 "On 15-2-1987 the brother of 
my wife and his wife came to our house at Vysarpadi." It is also not uncommon in extending marriage invitation to the bride-groom by the wife's relatives and the bride. As rightly observed by the court below, the brother of the respondent herein who was not a party to the earlier correspondence (Exs.P-5, P-6 and P-7). In order to rectify the mistake, it is probable that he along with his wife could have visited the husband's house and informed the correct date of birth of the wife on 15-2-1987. Considering the pleadings and the evidence on this aspect, we are in entire agreement with the conclusion reached by the court below on this aspect. In other words, we hold that the husband was aware that even on 15-2-87 the real date of birth of his wife was 6-1-1961 and he has not raised any protest or objection. In the light of the admission of P.W.I in his evidence as mentioned above with regard to the presence of his brother-in-law along with his wife, it is safe to accept the conclusion of the court below that there was disclosure that 15-2-63 was not the real date of birth of the wife. If it is established that before the date of marriage, the bursting or exposition of fraud has taken place, there is no question of fraud existing on the date of marriage, namely, 8-3-87. The appellant

 wants to annul the marriage by a decree of nullity seeking an aid of Section 12(1)(c) of the Hindu Marriage Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"), which is extracted here-under:-- A reading of the above said section clearly shows that the consent of one party was obtained by fraud as to any material fact or circumstance concerning the other party for (he marriage, before the marriage and the same is subsisting even at the time of marriage. In other words, the consent obtained by way of fraud must be prior to the marriage and the same was very well subsisting on the date of the marriage. As mentioned above, before the date of marriage, there was no subsisting fraud, since the appellant was aware of the correct date of birth of R.W.I well in advance (on 15-2-63) yet the marriage was performed without any objection. If that is so, S. 12(1)(c) of the Act has no application. To put it very briefly, S. 12(1)(c) of the Act will apply only if the fraud subsists on the date of the marriage. In this case the evidence adduced on the side of the respondent clearly shows that the appellant was aware of the correct date of birth well in advance, hence
there is no question of any concealment or fraud with regard to the age of the wife and it
is not possible for the appellant to seek the aid of S. 12(1)(c) of the Act for annulment of the marriage which took place on 8-3-87. Admittedly, both the parties have not examined

any other witness except their own evidence. We are satisfied that in the light of the specific stand taken in the counter affidavit in the absence of any reply, we accept the case of the respondent that the appellant was aware of the correct date of birth prior to the date of marriage through the brother of the wife who met the appellant on 15-2-87 in the matrimonial home at Vysarpadi, Madras-39. If we analyse the said evidence in the light of the provisions in the Family Court Act , more particularly with reference to S. 14 , as rightly observed by the court below, the conclusion reached by the court below cannot said to be either erroneous or improper. 7. Since the husband raised the only contention before the' court below as well as before us that the respondent and her father committed a fraud in getting his consent for marriage by furnishing wrong date of birth, it is unnecessary for us to go into the other factual position. Before winding up, it is useful to refer some of the decisions cited by both sides. 8. In Babui Panmato v. Ram Agya Singh , , where the father represented to his wife within the hearing of the appellant, his daughter, who was sui juris, that the proposed bridegroom was a young man, although in fact he was of advanced age and the appellant believing the representation gave her consent to the marriage. 9. In Rajinder Singh v. Pomilla, , a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court has held thus,
 "Where it was proved that the consent of the wife in bringing about the marriage was obtained by deception, mis-representation and concealment of material fact as to premarital status of the husband-appellant the wife was entitled to the relief claimed for annulling the marriage under clause (c) of sub-sec. (1) of S. 12 ." 10. In Som Dutt v. Smt. Raj Kumari , , husband sought annulment of marriage for fraud committed upon him by his wife in concealing her true age from him and thereby inducing him to marry a woman much older than him in age. Date of birth of wife as mentioned in her horoscope compared with that of her husband showed her to be a year younger than her husband. She admitted her date of birth which made her three years older than her husband. Her date of birth as recorded in her matriculation certificate made her seven years older than her husband. No effort was made to get the date corrected in case of any error in it. Wife was also suffering from recurrent attacks of hysteria and garrulity. In an attack after marriage she was found to be anxious and irritable and had suicidal feelings and there was also disturbance of her memory and intelligence. In these circumstance, a single Judge has held,
 "marriage was liable to be annulled due to gross matrimonial fraud committed upon husband both with regard to age of his wife as also her mental state." Again it is further held,
 "What emerges from the evidence on record therefore, is that Raj Kumari was indeed suffering from some mental ailment and that she suffered an attack of hysteria and garrulity on August 3, 1980 and her behaviour

on that account thereafter became abnormal. She had similar attacks earlier too. Hysteria is not always a curable disease. According to Dr. P. L. Narang, it can be of an incurable type too. What it was in the case of Raj Kumari as also the nature and extent of her mental ailment could not, however, be discovered as contrary to the advice of the doctor, her parents did not permit her to be admitted in the hospital for proper investigation and treatment. This conduct of the parents cannot, but raise an adverse inference regarding the mental condition of Raj Kumari. Relevant in this context is what was noted in her medical record Exhibit A/1, namely, that she was found to be anxious and irritable and had suicidal feelings and there was also disturbance of her memory and intelligence. These being the circumstances, the assumption that her mental condition was such as would warrant annulment of marriage on that account, would indeed be an irresistible conclusion." 11. In Rajaram v. Deepabai , , a Division Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court has gone to the extent of saying that,
 "the concealment of the fact that the appellant had been once married to another woman cannot be a ground for annulment of the marriage." 12. In Sivaramanv. Padmaja, ILR(1975) 1 Ker 469, a Division Bench of Kerala High Court with reference to S. 12(1)(c) of the Act has held that even if there was mis-representation at the time when consent was obtained from, one party to the marriage by the other party, if the solemnization is not vitiated by any fraud or force, there is no scope for seeking annulment of the marriage. Since the Division Bench has considered various decisions of other High Courts, we are extracting some of the relevant paragraphs hereunder: If any marriage solemnized may be annulled on the ground that the 'consent' was obtained by fraud the consent must have been to such solemnization. Normally parties agree upon the marriage proposal prior to the solemnization ceremony. There would be proposal and acceptance and it is after such acceptance that the parties agree upon a date and time for the marriage ceremony. Therefore even prior to the solemnization there is a stage at which consent is given by one party to the other. May be there is fraudulent misrepresentation at that stage. That may be with regard to the status of the party, educational qualifications, financial situation, state of health, or even virginity. But at the time when solemnization takes place pursuant to such consent there is no question of any misrepresentation on any of the above grounds. There couid be fraud or there could be force in the matter of solemnization, independent of these matters. To these cases S. 12(1)(c) will be attracted but not to a case where though there is no fraud or force in the solemnization of the marriage there is fraud or misrepresentation for obtaining consent to the proposal for the marriage. 12-A. The view as taken by us here is supported by the view of several High Courts in India. The High Court of Calcutta in the decision in Anath Nath De v. Smt. Lajjabati Devi , thus: 13. The marriage according to Hindu law not being a contract, the consent at the first stage though obtained by fraud cannot affect the validity of the marriage. The consent at the time of the solemnization is the material consent. It is well settled that the consent at the time of solemnization of marriage though a marriage is a sacrament according to the 
Hindus, if obtained by fraud, affects the validity of the marriage. The same view has been taken by the Punjab High Court in Harbhajan Singh v. Smt. Brij Balab, AIR 1964 Punjab 359. Pandit, J. said in that case thus: Malvankar, J. of the High Court of Bombay in Raghunath v. Vijaya , , considered this question in rather elaborate detail and at paragraph 12 the learned Judge said : 13. A different view has been expressed by the High Court of Patna in Babui Panmato v. Ram Agya Singh , , it is evident that the definition of 'fraud' in the Contract Act has been adopted by the learned Judge and the learned Judge seems to have supported his view on the basis of the absence of the words 'at the time of the marriage' under S. 12(1)(c) . According to the learned Judge if the intention was to limit the plea of fraud to the solemnization the Legislature could have used the words 'at the time of the marriage' to indicate that it is only such that would vitiate the marriage. We do not think this is necessary or that its absence, justifies the reading of the term 'fraud' in the manner it has been done by the Judge of the Patna High Court. 14. Mulla, in Principles of Hindu Law, 11th Edition, deals with this aspect at page 739 thus: 15. The position therefore is that even if there was misrepresentation at the time when consent was obtained from one party to the marriage by the other party, if the solemnization is not vitiated by any fraud or force, there is no scope for seeking annulment of the marriage. Therefore even if the act of substitution of horoscope of another girl amounts to fraud on the part of the girl pr her parents, that may not be sufficient in this case to hold that the marriage should be annulled. Therefore it follows that the appellant herein should fall." 15-A. With regard to concealment of material fact, the Division Bench of this Court in Sujatha v. Hariharan , (1995) 2 Mad LJ 327 has held that it must be of such a nature which affects ordinary marital life of the parties. In the said case there was an eye defect curable by proper treatment. Concealment of such fact at the time of the marriage cannot said to be fraud, hence annulment of marriage on that ground cannot be granted. After analysing various earlier case laws of other High Court as well as this Court and in the light of Section 12(1)(c) of the Act, the Bench has come to the following conclusion:-- 16. The term 'fraud' is not defined in the Hindu Marriage Act . In the absence of any definition in the relevant Act 'fraud' cannot be deemed to mean the same as what is mentioned by the definition of that term in Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act. Normally parties to the marriage agree upon the marriage proposal prior to the solemnization ceremony. There would be proposal and acceptance and it is after such acceptance that the parties agree upon a date and lime for the marriage ceremony. In our case also number of letters have been sent by either parties and both the parties agree to conduct the marriage on 8-3-1987. According to the appellant, by fraudulent misrepresentation, his consent was obtained by the respondent and her father. It is already established that prior to the soleemnization of the marriage, the appellant, husband was aware of the truth and the marriage was solemnized. It is evident from the fact that at the time of the solemnization

of the marriage, the alleged fraud did not exist, hence we are in agreement with the proposition of law rendered by the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court reported in ILR (1975) 1 Ker 469 cited supra and hold that there is no scope for seeking annulment of marriage if the solemnization is not vitiated by any fraud or force. In view of this, with great respect, we are unable to follow the contrary views taken by various other High Courts, after than the Kerala case referred above. 16-A. The other faint argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the court below failed to consider some of the documents filed on the side of the husband and erroneously entertained Ex. R.29 filed on the side of the wife. In view of the submission made by the counsel, we have carefully considered the entire documents which are various correspondences between the parties prior to the marriage and in the right of the reasons stated above, we are not pursuaded to take a different view than that of the court below. It is seen that Ex., R. 29 dated 25-11-1991 which is an affidavit duly sworn by V. Lakshmi-narayanan, brother of the respondent herein has been marked on the side of the wife and the same has been considered by the Court below. A perusal of Ex. R. 29 shows that it is an affidavit filed by V. Lakshminaryanan, brother of the respondent herein. The said affidavit has been filed by him in person before the court on 25-11-1991. The docket endorsement of the said document also shows that a copy of the said affidavit has been received by the appellant on the very same day. No doubt, R.W. 1 has not spoken to about Ex. R. 29. But the reading of the provisions of the Family Court Act clearly shows thafit has ample power to receive such document or documents for the disposal of the case and in the interest of rendering justice to the parties. Hence we are unable to accept the objection of the learned counsel for the appellant in this regard. 16-B. The other important fact to be noted in this case, as seen from the records, is

that the appellant, husband had agreed for a divorce by mutual consent. Likewise, he had also agreed to pay maintenance in a petition filed by the respondent under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the file of Mahila Court, Hyderabad and paid maintenance also. As rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the respondent, if there was no valid marriage, questions of divorce or payment of maintenance will not arise. 17. Finally presuming there was misrepresentation with regard to the date of birth, that will not, in any way, affect the "ordinary marital life" so that it amounts to "fraud" under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act. The various decisions referred to in Sujatha v. Hariharan , (1995) 2 Mad LJ 327 crystalise the above said legal position. As already said, we are also in entire agreement with the view expressed by the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in ILR 1975 (1) Ker 469. Even on the factual aspect for the sake of repetition, we are right in saying that the appellant was aware of the wife's true date of birth even on 15-2-1987 that is well prior to the date of marriage on 8-3-1987. We are also satisfied that the appellant was aware and known of the true age of the wife before the marriage. Hence looking at any angle, in the light of the specific defence taken in the counter, in the absence of any reply by the husband, coupled with the oral evidence and other documents, we are unable to accept any one of the arguments advancaed by the learned counsel for the appellant consequently, the appeal fails and the same is dismissed. However, there will be no order as to costs. 16. Appeal dismissed.