MediaNama’s Take: The Guwahati Crime Branch’s FIR against journalist Abhisar Sharma, over a remark made in a YouTube video, is extremely concerning. In India, the process is the punishment, and such criminal complaints carry the potential to stifle free speech by financially draining independent journalists. The fact that the police filed a fresh FIR the same day that the court granted relief to the Wire, under the very same section of the BNS, underscores this point.

Both the courts and the police need to ensure that the need for law enforcement does not stile the right to freedom of expression.

What’s The News: Guwahati Crime Branch filed a First Information Report (FIR) against journalist Abhisar Sharma on August 21 for accusing Assam Chief Minister (CM) Himanta Biswa Sarma of engaging in communal politics.

According to Sharma, the police filed the FIR under sections 152, 196 and 197 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS). These sections deal with statements endangering national unity and sovereignty, promoting enmity between religious groups, and making statements prejudicial to national integration respectively.

The FIR pertained to a video made by Sharma on statements made by a judge in the Guwahati High Court (HC), regarding the allocation of 3,000 bighas of land to Mahabal Cement, a company allegedly linked to the Adani Group. Sharma argued in the video that the Assam CM was engaging in communal rhetoric to divert public attention from such instances.

The FIR filed against me by @assampolice is completely baseless. It will be responded to legally! In my show, I had mentioned the statement of an Assam judge, where he referred to the Assam government giving 3,000 bighas of land to Mahabal Cement and had criticized it. I had also…

He called the FIR complaint baseless and alleged that Sarma and the BJP were themselves guilty of statements endangering communal harmony. He also stated that he intended to legally challenge the FIR.

According to a report from Scroll.in, the complaint came from a member of the student union Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), who alleged that the journalist had denigrated the Assam and Union Governments and thus endangered national sovereignty. He claimed that the journalist “ridiculed the principle of Ram Rajya (the reign of Lord Ram), and openly accused the chief minister of Assam of communal politics”.

Notably, the Gautam Adani-led business conglomerate has categorically denied any links to the cement company granted 3,000 bighas of land in Assam. “Mahabal Cement is not related to, owned by or connected with the Adani Group in any manner whatsoever,” read a statement published by the business group.

The Assam Police had recently filed multiple FIRs against The Wire’s Founding Editor Siddharth Varadarajan, and journalist Karan Thapar.

The first FIR was filed on July 11 after a BJP officeholder complained over a story published by the Wire. The story in question quoted India’s defence attache to Indonesia, Captain (Indian Navy) Shiv Kumar, who acknowledged that the Indian Air Force lost fighter jets to Pakistan on the night of May 7, 2025 as part of the Operation Sindoor offensive.

While the Supreme Court (SC) issued a notice on August 12, protecting both journalists from any “coercive action” by Assam Police, the Guwahati Crime Branch filed a fresh FIR on August 12 itself.

This new FIR invoked sections 152, 196, 197(1)(D)/3(6), 353, 45 and 61 of the BNS. For context, sections 353 , 45 and 61 deal with statements conducing to public mischief, abetment, and criminal conspiracy respectively.

The Editors Guild of India (EGI) issued a statement on August 19 condemning the fresh FIR against Varadarajan and Thapar.

EGI Statement on FIRs and Summons Issued to Siddharth Varadarajan and Karan Thapar pic.twitter.com/tWNDhzM0R5

“The Guild is extremely disturbed by this continuing trend of law enforcement agencies across states registering FIRs against journalists by invoking multiple provisions of the criminal code. This practice effectively muzzles independent journalism, as the very process of responding to notices, summons and prolonged judicial proceedings becomes a form of punishment,” it said.

Notably, the SC granted fresh relief to both journalists in a hearing today against any “coercive action” by the police under Section 152.

Importantly, The Wire’s legal representatives stated that the news platform was not able to access the FIR in both cases. This was despite the SC instructing police officials to release FIRs publicly and give copies to the accused.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event