This bail application under Section 483 Cr.P.C is filed for

granting pre-arrest bail to the accused petitioner Sri Siddhartha

Ghosh in connection with Airport PS Case No.2023 ARP 050 under Section 120(B) / 447 / 468 / 471 / 506 of IPC. Heard Learned counsel Mr. A. Bhaumik representing the

accused petitioner and also heard Learned P.P. Mr. Raju Datta

along with Mr. R. Saha, Learned Addl. P.P. representing the state-

respondents. Taking part in the hearing Learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner submitted that this is the second pre-arrest bail

application filed by the petitioner before this High Court and this

court by order dated 25.10.2024 in connection with AB No.55 of

2024 was pleased to reject the earlier pre-arrest bail application

filed by this accused-petitioner. Learned counsel at this stage

submitted that in the meantime the other accused persons who

were FIR named have been released on bail from the court. This

petitioner being a deed writer having a good repute if at this stage

is sent to custody then his entire career would be doomed. It was

further submitted that on the same subject matter a civil suit is

pending before the Civil Court for adjudication amongst the rival 2 parties and in the said civil suit the present petitioner has not

been made party even the District Registrar on the allegation of

forgery has initiated a proceeding wherein the present petitioner

was asked to appear and submit his written contention and

accordingly he appeared. But no adverse order either from the

Learned Civil court or by the District Registrar has been passed

against the present petitioner. Learned counsel further submitted

that since the process of online registration as initiated so the

entire process was proceeded through online system and the

petitioner being a Deed Writer prepared the deed on the

requisition of the interested parties based on their documents.

Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that although the

case has been registered under Section 120(B) / 447 / 468 / 471 / 506 of IPC but none of the aforesaid provisions is applicable against

the present petitioner and Learned counsel also submitted that

this present petitioner being a reputed person is a law abiding

person will definitely abide by the terms and conditions if bail is

granted to him and there is no chance of absconding and he will

not temper any evidence on record of the prosecution since the

case was registered about a year back. Even from the Civil Court

also there was no order passed against this present petitioner

showing his involvement with the alleged offence and he referred

few citations and urged for granting the pre-arrest bail. Learned counsel referred one citation in Rajender alias

Rajesh alias Raju v. State (NCT of Delhi ) reported in (2019)

10 SCC 623 wherein para No.10, Hon'ble the Apex Court

observed as under: Referring the same Learned counsel submitted that herein

the case at hand there is no circumstance showing involvement of

the accused with the alleged crime. Learned counsel for the petitioner further referred another

citation in Ravidra Saxena v. State of Rajasthan dated

15.12.2009 in Crl. A. No.2406 of 2009 reported in (2010) 1 SCC

684 wherein in para No.12, Hon'ble the Apex Court observed as

under: Referring the same Learned counsel for the petitioner

submitted that since there is a civil dispute going on amongst the

rival parties so there is no scope to disallow the application filed

by the petitioner at this stage. Learned counsel Mr. Bhaumik further referred another

citation in Dilip Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Anr. dated 19.01.2021 in Crl. A. No.53 of 2021 reported in (2021) 2

SCC 779 wherein para No.4, Hon'ble the Apex Court observed as

under: Referring the same Learned counsel submitted that in view

of the principles of law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court

considering the nature and gravity of the offence the petitioner

may be released on bail as prayed for. On the other hand, Learned P.P. representing the

prosecution/State strongly opposed the bail application and

submitted that this bail application is not maintainable as the

similar bail application was earlier rejected by this court as

referred by the petitioner and there is no new ground in the

present petition to consider his bail application. Learned P.P.

further submitted that the present petitioner identified a fake

person and at his instance the subsequent forged deed was

registered and he deprived the purchaser of the disputed land in

question and furthermore the report of SFSL also clearly indicates

that there was fabrication of document. He further referred few

citations in support of his contention. In Srikant Upadhyay and Others v. State of Bihar &

Anr. dated 14.03.2024 reported in (2024) SCC OnLine SC 282

wherein para No.25, Hon'ble the Apex Court observed as under: 5 Referring the same Learned P.P. submitted that since in this

case on the prayer of I.O. the Learned court below has issued

warrant of arrest against him. So at this stage there is no scope to

release him on bail. Learned P.P. referred another citation reported in Pratibha

Manchanda and Another vs. State of Haryana and Another reported in (2023) 8 SCC 181 in para No.29 Hon'ble the

Supreme Court observed as under: Referring the same Learned P.P. Mr. Datta submitted that

considering the nature and gravity of the offence this present 6 anticipatory bail application has got no merit and accordingly the

 same is liable to be rejected. Considered. I have heard both the sides at length and perused the Case

 Diary produced by I.O. through Learned P.P.

 It is the admitted position that earlier the similar bail

 application was disallowed by this court. It is also the admitted

 position that a civil dispute is going on amongst the rival parties.

 It is also the admitted position that by this time the principal

 accused and other accused have already been granted by bail by

 the court. From the Case Diary it appears that by this time on the

 prayer of I.O. warrant of arrest is issued against the present

 petitioner and also it appears that at the instance of the present

 petitioner the subsequent deed in question was prepared and this

 petitioner identified a person who was not the original executant

 of the land in question. So in view of the principle of law laid down

 by the Hon'ble Supreme Court as aforesaid this court finds no

 scope to consider bail application filed by the accused petitioner. Hence, the anticipatory bail application filed stands rejected

 being devoid of merit. The accused may surrender to the Learned

 court below who shall dispose of the bail application if filed, in

 accordance with law on merit. Let a copy of this order be sent to I.O. through Learned P.P.

 along with the case diary and also a copy of this order be

 communicated to the Learned Jurisdictional Magistrate. With this observation, this bail application stands disposed

 of.