This is a special newsletter that went out to MediaNama subscribers on July 28, 2023.

Artificial Intelligence has slowly crept into everyday life unbeknownst to most of us. While the general public is still making sense of its functioning and processes, private and government entities have already started deploying such technologies for their work. The European Union is almost ready with its regulation for the growing industry, and we await the one chapter assigned to the same in yet to be tabled India’s Digital India Act. We bring to you our first edition of a special newsletter on AI — curated with interesting stories of the month for you.

On the same line, we are planning an event on artificial intelligence, ‘AINext 2023’ , for September. If you have ideas regarding what we should do at AINext 2023, drop our editor Nikhil Pahwa a note at [email protected] .

Let’s dive into the stories!

Taming the Rules: TIME magazine reported that OpenAI tried influencing the European Union to water down its Artificial Intelligence Act, which was officially adopted on June 14 . OpenAI submitted a White Paper to the EU Commission and Council in September 2022, suggesting EU to not classify their advanced AI systems as high-risk. This, after OpenAI’s CEO, Sam Altman has been a very vocal supporter of AI regulation and has expressed concerns about AI products. Irony much? It’s like calling for traffic rules but wanting a free pass for their cars. This apparent contradiction raised concerns as most industries oppose regulations, leaving doubts about OpenAI’s stance on AI regulation.

Vietnam’s Cleanup: Vietnam has ordered foreign social media companies to employ AI for detecting and removing toxic content . The move is part of the government’s efforts to combat false news and scams online. However, such algorithm-based content screening may lead to wrongful restrictions due to errors and bias. Sure, tackling false news and scams is vital, but we might be sacrificing privacy and freedom of speech. India’s joining the AI parade too, demanding Google to play content detective without any complaints. It’s a slippery slope when algorithms decide what’s right or wrong online. Let’s hope AI’s not a harsh judge!

Guiding the Wheels: With AI risks soaring, NASSCOM sets the stage for generative AI rules. In absence of specific legislation, these guidelines might be the compass for AI developers and researchers. The guidelines identify harms associated and asks stakeholders for risk assessment, foresight on its impact, along with a compliance model for users. As AI experts warn of global extinction risk, India steers clear of separate laws, relying on the Digital India Act, which is yet to be released.

Weighing regulation and innovation: European industry leaders and tech founders are up in arms over the European Union’s AI Act, claiming it threatens Europe’s tech dominance . In an open letter, they propose an expert-led regulatory body to adapt laws with tech advancements. The Act aims to scrutinize high-risk AI systems, addressing concerns of misinformation, bias, and privacy issues. But with Big Tech’s influence on global socio-politics, looks like a difficult road ahead for a high-stakes competition between innovation and regulation seems to be already brewing, wherein AI’s potential impact on society hangs in the balance.

David vs Goliath: Kenyan content moderators who trained OpenAI’s ChatGPT have petitioned the country’s National Assembly to investigate companies like Samasource, which outsource content moderation and AI work for big tech companies like Google, Meta, and OpenAI. The petition exposes the harsh working conditions of these moderators who were tasked with labeling toxic and harmful internet content for ChatGPT training. This letter also brings into perspective the current situation where with the fast-paced deployment of AI, narratives have become restricted to benefits and end-user harms, which questions how much we still don’t know about the impacts of AI and its growing industry.

TRAI’s Revolution Against Spam: India’s Telecom Regulatory Authority takes on pesky spammers with AI and ML-powered UCC_Detect system. The system aims to identify and act against commercial communication violators, protecting customers from fraudulent links and scams. Previous attempts like the DND app fell short, but they claim that these big guns can evolve and adapt to beat spammers at their own game. Will this tech duo save the day and give customers a spam-free life? Moreover, recently, TRAI released a set of recommendations on the use of artificial intelligence and big data in the telecom sector — from enhancing capabilities of ASTRA through AI/ML to real-time customer analysis, and more. Alongside, it suggested a new AI watchdog. Will this be a telecom revolution or just AI overload?

YouTube’s makeover: YouTube will introduce a new AI-powered feature, powered by Aloud, enabling creators to dub their videos in different languages. This innovation will facilitate content expansion into diverse markets and cater to a broader audience. Currently, dubbing videos into specific languages is expensive and time-consuming, requiring voice artists or third-party dubbing services. The claims include reduction of both costs and time. Initially offering Spanish and Portuguese audio tracks for English videos, YouTube plans to add more languages in the future. In more good news, YouTube aims to improve the quality of translated audio tracks to match the creator’s voice and lip sync by 2024.

Test ethics: Google is testing an AI product to generate news stories , but they assure everyone it’s just to assist journalists, not replace them. Some execs weren’t convinced, thinking Google underestimated the effort in creating accurate and artful news. This comes after OpenAI partnered with the Associated Press for AI journalism exploration. Previous attempts at AI-written news saw blunders like serious errors in finance articles and AI-generated stories published without proper attribution. Looks like AI is eager to join the newsroom, but it better learn some ethics and fact-checking first!

Copyright adventure: AI tools these days can do it all – write complex texts, short stories, code, poetry, and music! But this tech marvel brings up a copyright conundrum. Who owns the content created by AI? Is it even copyrightable? The Indian Copyright Act requires originality for copyright protection, and AI-generated works may lack the required creativity. However, the Act recognizes authorship of computer-generated works, attributing authorship to the person causing the work’s creation. This leads to the question of who that “person” is – the AI tool developer, the user, or the AI tool itself? A guest author takes us through the conundrums and cases in this article .

Even the battleground: Generative AI is a powerful tech marvel, but it’s also causing some competition concerns. Access to data, a small talent pool, and control over computational resources can lead to anti-competitive practices, favoring established companies over new players. Big firms controlling adjacent markets can bundle their generative AI with existing offerings, stifling competition. Perhaps, looking at the unfair practices of big techs in other marketspaces, the US FTC wishes to prepare in advance and address these concerns to ensure a competitive marketplace.

⏯ Videos to watch:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event