22.11.2010 W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 1 of 39 1. Although the facts in these two writ petitions are slightly different, the

questions involved are more or less similar. Both Petitioners, being the

members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (`ICAI‟), i.e. the

Respondent No. 1 in both the petitions seek to challenge a prima facie

opinion dated 17th September 2009 arrived at by the ICAI and the

disciplinary proceedings that have commenced consequent thereto. Both

Petitioners seek a direction to the ICAI to keep the respective disciplinary

proceedings against them in abeyance till the conclusion of the criminal

cases against each of them. Factual Background 2. The Petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 2505 of 2010, Mr. Talluri Srinivas

(`Srinivas‟) is a Chartered Accountant by profession and a member of the

ICAI since 1990. Srinivas was a partner with M/s Price Waterhouse (`PW‟),

a firm of Chartered Accountants registered with the ICAI. In the year 2000,

PW were appointed as the statutory auditors of Satyam Computer Services

Limited (`SCSL‟). While the statutory audits of SCSL for the years 2001 to

March 2007 were conducted and the reports were signed by Mr. Subramani

Gopalkrishnan (`Gopalkrishnan‟) (the Petitioner in Writ Petition (C) 5352 of

2010), the statutory audit for the quarters ending on 30th June 2007 and 30th

September 2008 were conducted and signed by Srinivas. 3. On 7th January 2009, Mr. B. Ramalinga Raju, the then Chairman of SCSL

wrote a letter to his Board of Directors in which inter alia he disclosed that

the balance sheet of SCSL as on 30th September 2008 carried inflated (non-

existent) cash and bank balances of Rs. 5,040/- crores (as against Rs. 5361 W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 2 of 39 crore reflected in the books) and accrued non-existent interest of Rs. 376

crores, an understated liability of Rs. 1,230 crores on account of funds

arranged by him and an overstated debtors position of Rs. 490 crores (as

against Rs. 2651 crores reflected in the books). He also disclosed that for the

September quarter, the company had reported a revenue of Rs. 2,700/- crores

and an operating margin of Rs. 649 crores (24% of revenues) as against the

actual revenue of Rs. 2,112 crores and an actual operating margin of Rs. 61

crores (3% revenues). This had resulted in artificial cash and bank balances

going up by Rs. 588 crores in the Second Quarter alone. Mr. Raju tendered

his resignation as the Chairman of SCSL and stated that he was prepared to

subject himself to the law of the land and face the consequences thereof. 4. On 10th January 2009, the ICAI wrote a letter to M/s Price Waterhouse,

Bangalore (PW, Bangalore) referring to the letter dated 7th January 2009

addressed by Mr. Raju to the Board of Directors of SCSL. It was stated by

the ICAI that from the perusal of the said letter of Mr. Raju and the

newspaper reports, it emerged that the audit figures for the years 2004-05 till

the quarter ending on 30th September 2008 had been certified by PW,

Bangalore as reflecting the true and fair picture of the accounts, which was

now admitted even by the Chairman of SCSL to be incorrect. This meant

that the PW, Bangalore "had failed to carry out necessary checks which are

required while undertaking the audit of the financial statements and

certifying the quarterly results of the company." ICAI alleged that the PW,

Bangalore had violated the accounting principles while auditing/ certifying

the accounts/quarterly results of SCSL for the aforementioned

years/Quarters; that in spite of the aforestated irregularities/manipulations in W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 3 of 39 the financial statements, PW, Bangalore had stated that financial statements

together with the notes thereon gave a true and fair view; that PW,

Bangalore had failed to disclose material facts which were not disclosed in

financial statements of SCSL; that it had failed to report material mis-

statement known to it as statutory auditors, which appeared in the financial

statements of SCSL. It was thus alleged that PW, Bangalore did not exercise

due diligence and was grossly negligent in the conduct of its professional

duties as statutory auditors of SCSL for all these years. 5. In the said letter dated 10th January 2009 addressed to PW, Bangalore the

ICAI stated that the letter dated 7th January 2009 of Mr. Raju and the

newspaper reports had been treated as "information" within the meaning of Section 21(2) of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 [as amended by the Chartered Accountants (Amendment) Act, 2006 with effect from 17th

November 2006] (hereinafter „ CA Act ‟). PW, Bangalore was called upon "to

disclose the name or names of the member or members who is/are

answerable to the allegation/s and send a copy of the aforesaid information

letter along with its enclosures to the said member/members and he/they be

requested to send his/their Written Statement, if any, in triplicate, within 21

days of the receipt of this letter." It was further stated that the member or

members answerable, should also send a declaration duly signed in the

enclosed format and in the event that the name/s of member/s answerable

was not disclosed "then all the members who were partners or employees of

the firm on the date of occurrence of the alleged misconduct, shall be

responsible for answering the allegation or allegations contained in the

information." On 14th January 2009, similar notices were sent to Price W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 4 of 39 Waterhouse, Kolkata (`PW, Kolkata‟) and Price Waterhouse, New Delhi

(`PW, New Delhi‟). 6. On 30th January 2009, PW replied to the ICAI stating, inter alia:- 7. PW also informed that Gopalkrishnan and Srinivas had been arrested by

the local police and were, therefore, out of reach. The ICAI was requested to

grant all the members, whose names were disclosed, some more time to

respond to the notice dated 10th January 2009. PW also gave its response to

the queries raised. As mentioned hereinbefore, on 23rd January 2009 Srinivas

was arrested. Gopalkrishnan was arrested on 24th January 2009. 8. On 20th February 2009, the criminal investigation was transferred to the

Central Bureau of Investigation („CBI‟) and RC No. 4(S)/2009 was

registered against Gopalkrishnan, Srinivas and seven other accused persons

under Sections 409 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 477-A , 201 , 120-B IPC. 9. At the instance of the CBI, a Multi Disciplinary Investigation Team

(„MDIT‟) was constituted and a report was prepared by the ICAI Group on W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 5 of 39 5th April 2009. In para 1.2 of the said report it has been mentioned that Mr.

Uttam Prakash Agarwal, President of the ICAI and Mr. Amarjit Chopra,

Vice President of the ICAI, represented the ICAI in the MDIT. In Para 1.3, it

is stated that Mr. Agarwal constituted a group of local Chartered Accountant

professionals from Hyderabad under the convenorship of Mr. Shanti Lal

Daga, a member of the Central Council of ICAI, based in Hyderabad to

provide requisite support and to help the CBI in its investigation of the scam.

It is stated that Mr. Daga then led the group and interacted with Mr. V.V.

Laxmi Narayana, the DIG who was heading the probe, and Mr. J.L. Negi,

the Coordinator of the CBI investigation team. Para 1.4 of the report of the

ICAI Group states that the Group has been entrusted with the "task of

verification of compliances or otherwise by Price Waterhouse, the auditors

of the company, with various auditing and assurances standards and

guidance notes issued by ICAI, in respect of cash and bank balances, sales,

receivables, interest accrued and tax deducted at source relating to fixed

deposits and its impact on financial reporting and auditor‟s report thereon.

Therefore, the verification by the Group is limited to the above heads of

account of the financial statements." The report further stated that the ICAI

Group had "restricted its enquiry to the aforesaid heads of accounts and

related matters for the years ending 31st March 2005, 31st March 2006, 31st

March 2007, 31st March 2008 and for the quarters ended 30th June 2008 and

30th September 2008." 10. The ICAI Group in para 19.1 of its report arrived at the following

conclusions: 11. On 7th April 2009, the CBI filed its first charge sheet in the Court of the

Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate („ACMM‟) naming the Petitioners

Gopalkrishnan and Srinivas and seven others as accused persons. Among the

documents relied upon by the CBI was the report of the ICAI Group, which

was a part of the MDIT. 12. Under Section 21(2) of the CA Act, on receipt of any information or

complaint by the ICAI, the Director (Discipline) should arrive at a prima

facie opinion on the occurrence of the alleged misconduct. Under Section

21(3) , it is stated that where the Director (Discipline) is of the opinion that a

member is guilty of any professional or other misconduct mentioned in the First Schedule to the CA Act , then the matter will be placed before the

Board of Discipline and where the Director (Discipline) is of the opinion

that a member is guilty of any professional or other misconduct mentioned W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 7 of 39 in the Second Schedule or in both the Schedules, then the matter will be

placed before the Disciplinary Committee. 13. The Director (Discipline) placed the prima facie opinion dated 17th

September 2009 before the Disciplinary Committee. The view expressed

therein was that Gopalkrishnan and Srinivas were prima facie guilty of

professional misconduct within the meaning of Clauses (5), (6), (7), (8) and

(9) of Part I of the Second Schedule to the CA Act. A prima facie opinion

was also formed that the two Petitioners were guilty of other misconduct

within the meaning of Section 22 read with Section 21 of the CA Act. 14. On the basis of the above prima facie opinion which was considered by

the Disciplinary Committee, a separate notice dated 8th October 2009 was

sent by the ICAI to each of the Petitioners enclosing the copy of the prima

facie opinion and asking each of them to send their written statement along

with supporting documents and a list of witnesses within 21 days. At that

point of time, both the Petitioners were in judicial custody. 15. On 22nd November 2009, a supplementary charge sheet was filed by the

CBI. A second supplementary charge sheet was filed on 7th January 2010. 16. On 4th February 2010, Srinivas was granted bail by the Supreme Court in

Crl. Appeal No. 257 of 2010.The relevant portion of the order read as under: 17. On 26th February 2010, notices were issued by the ICAI to Srinivas with

respect to the disciplinary proceedings pending against him as well as Mr.

Ch. Ravindranath. On 26th March 2010, Srinivas replied to the ICAI stating

that Mr. Ravindranath had been cited as a witness in the criminal case

pending before the Special Court, CBI against Srinivas. The proceedings for

which the ICAI had summoned Srinivas as a witness in the disciplinary

proceedings against Mr. Ravindranath arose from the very same acts of

alleged omission or commission which formed the basis for various charges

alleged against Srinivas in the pending criminal case. Accordingly, it was

submitted by Srinivas that his appearance as a witness in the disciplinary W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 9 of 39 proceedings against Mr. Ravindranath would severely prejudice his position

in the criminal cases pending trial. As regards the disciplinary proceedings

against himself, Srinivas pointed out that he would be dealing with it

separately. By a separate letter dated 26th March 2010, Srinivas stated that

the disciplinary proceedings against him should be deferred since the alleged

acts of omission or commission on the basis of which disciplinary

proceedings had commenced formed not only the basis of prima facie

opinion but also formed the basis for various charges against him in the

criminal cases. Srinivas expressed his apprehension that "any disclosure of

my explanations or defenses until the final conclusion of my aforesaid

pending criminal trial before the Special Court at Hyderabad, would

seriously impact my defence in the above criminal trial." 18. On 6th April 2010, the ICAI wrote to Srinivas asking him to attend as a

witness in the disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Ravindranath failing

which he would be subject to the consequence of non-attendance as laid

down in Rule 12 of Order XVI of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 read

with Section 21-C of the CA Act. By a separate communication received by

Srinivas on 9th April 2010, the ICAI informed him that although the hearing

on 30th March 2010 had been adjourned by the Disciplinary Committee, the

scope of inquiry by the Disciplinary Committee and that of the criminal

court were on a separate footing and, therefore, at the next date of hearing,

i.e. 18th April 2010, he should remain present and further that no

adjournment would be granted under any circumstances. 19. W.P. (C) 2505 of 2010 was filed by Srinivas in this Court on 15th April W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 10 of 39 2010. On 16th April 2010, while directing notice to issue in the petition, this

Court directed that the hearing fixed before the Disciplinary Committee of

the ICAI on 18th April 2010 would be postponed by ten days. In the

meanwhile, the Petitioner was to prepare and file a chart to show the exact

allegations in the charge-sheet of the CBI and those in the show cause notice

issued by the ICAI in the disciplinary proceedings. 20. On 25th June 2010 Gopalkrishnan was granted bail by the High Court of

Andhra Pradesh subject to the following conditions:- 21. On 6th July 2010, two separate letters were sent by the ICAI to

Gopalkrishnan. One required him to appear as a witness on 23rd July 2010 at

2 pm in the disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Ch. Ravindranath and Mr.

P. Shiva Prasad who had both managed audits with the PW, Bangalore. In

the other letter, Gopalkrishnan was asked to appear on 23rd July 2010 at 3

pm in the disciplinary proceedings against him. By separate letters dated 19th

July 2010, Gopalkrishnan explained why he could not appear either as a

witness in the disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Ravindranath and Mr.

Shiva Prasad and also in the disciplinary proceedings against himself. This

was more or less on the same lines as the stand of Srinivas. 22. Thereafter on 26th July 2010, by separate letters, the ICAI required

Gopalkrishnan to again appear before the Disciplinary Committee on 12th

August 2010 with reference to both the enquiries initiated against Mr.

Ravindranath and Mr. P. Siva Prasad as well as the one pending against him.

In the circumstances, Gopalkrishnan filed W.P.(C) 5352 of 2010 in this

Court on 6th August 2010. 23. As regards the plea of Gopalkrishnan that he should not be asked to

appear in the disciplinary proceedings against Mr. Ravindranath and Mr.

Shiva Prasad, after hearing the submissions of counsel for both, the

Petitioner as well as the ICAI, this Court on 9th August 2010 while disposing

of the CM No. 10545 of 2010 passed the following order: Submissions of Counsel 24. Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior counsel appearing for the Petitioner

Srinivas, refers to the specific paragraphs of the CBI‟s charge sheet and the

paras of the prima facie opinion formed by the Director (Discipline), ICAI to

show that the subject-matter of both the disciplinary proceedings as well as

the criminal case in the Special Court, CBI against Srinivas are more or less

identical. Referring to the list of witnesses cited by the CBI, he points out

that the Superintendent of Police (SP), CBI as well as the General Manager,

SEBI whose statements were relied upon in the disciplinary proceedings, are

also the witnesses in the criminal trial. If Srinivas were to cross-examine the

SP, CBI in the disciplinary proceedings then he will be required to disclose

his entire defence and the cross-examination in the criminal case will be an

empty formality. He pointed out that Mr. Uttam Prakash Agarwal, President

of the ICAI was also cited as a witness in the criminal trial, and he is also a

witness in the disciplinary proceedings. A reference is also made to a news W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 15 of 39 item where the ICAI was reported to have requested the CBI and the SEBI

to share the evidence gathered both against Srinivas and Gopalkrishnan and

they had also requested the CBI and the SEBI to be their witnesses. A

reference was made to the report dated 5th April 2009 of the ICAI Group,

which formed a part of the MDIT, the conclusions of which formed the basis

for the prima facie opinion dated 17th September 2009 of the Director

(Discipline). The said report of the ICAI Group also formed the basis of the

charge sheet. Relying on the judgments of the Supreme Court in M. Paul

Anthony v. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. ( 1999) 3 SCC 679 and Indian Overseas

Bank v. P. Ganesan (2008) 1 SCC 650, it is submitted that since the

criminal case against Srinivas is on identical facts as in the disciplinary

proceedings initiated by the ICAI and the charges in the criminal case were

of a grave nature, the disciplinary proceedings should be stayed till the

conclusion of the criminal case. He submitted that since the Special Court,

CBI is proceeding with the case which is at the stage of framing of charges,

and there is no other case before that court, the criminal trial is not expected

to take any further time. It may be mentioned here that after the hearing

concluded, counsel for the Petitioners placed before this Court a copy of an

order dated 26th October 2010 passed by the Supreme Court in Crl.A. Nos.

2068-72 of 2010 cancelling the bail granted to Mr. Raju and four other

accused persons and directing conclusion of the trial by the Special Court by

31st July 2011. 25. Mr. Ganesh further submitted that it was not open to Srinivas to exercise

any right of silence before the Disciplinary Committee of the ICAI and if he

does so, an adverse inference could be drawn against him by the W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 16 of 39 Disciplinary Committee in regard to the very same charges which formed

the subject matter of the criminal case. He would, therefore, be compelled to

disclose his defence and this would be violative of his fundamental right

against self-incrimination under Article 20(3). 26. Appearing for Gopalkrishnan, Mr. N.K. Kaul, learned Senior counsel

pointed out that soon after the statement made by Mr. Raju, both

Gopalkrishnan and Srinivas had been suspended from PW. Gopalkrishnan

had since retired from PW. Mr. Kaul doubted the objectivity of the

proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee since the report of the ICAI

Group headed by its President and consisting of its Vice-President had

already formed an opinion in their report dated 5th April 2009, which formed

the basis of the prima facie opinion of the Director (Discipline). The

disciplinary proceedings conducted by the ICAI after such pre-judgment of

the conduct of the Petitioners was unlikely to be fair or objective. He also

referred to a statement made in the counter affidavit at para A of the

Preliminary Objections that "the discretionary jurisdiction of this Hon‟ble

Court may therefore not to be permitted to be used by the unscrupulous

Chartered Accountants as they are a part of the conspiracy involving a fraud

of Rs. 7000 crores." Mr. Kaul submitted that statements like these betrayed

the biased attitude of the ICAI, even before the disciplinary proceedings

against Gopalkrishnan commenced. 27. Mr. Kaul points out that Gopalkrishnan has not been discharging any

function as a Chartered Accountant ever since he was suspended from PW

and he does not intend to do so till the conclusion of the criminal trial. It is W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 17 of 39 submitted that the constitutional right against self-incrimination cannot be

violated on account of the insistence by the ICAI to proceed with its

disciplinary proceedings. He points out that Ms. Vandana D. Nagpal, the

Director (Discipline), ICAI has been cited as a witness at Serial No. 37 of

the List of Witnesses forming part of the charge-sheet filed by the CBI. The

Secretary of the ICAI, Mr. T. Kartikeyan has also been cited as a witness. 28. Appearing for the ICAI, Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, learned Senior

counsel first submitted that the entire basis of alleging that the subject-matter

of both, the proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee and the Special

Court, CBI is the same, is misconceived. According to him, the disciplinary

proceedings cannot possibly enquire into the charges of criminal conspiracy,

fraud, cheating and cannot possibly award any punishment for those

offences, which only a criminal court can. He also submits that the standard

of proof adopted by the disciplinary proceedings would be based on "the

preponderance of probabilities", which was different from the standard of

"proof beyond all reasonable doubt" to be adopted in the criminal

proceedings. Thirdly, it is submitted that the focus of the disciplinary

proceedings initiated by the ICAI was very different from that of the

criminal trial. One of the charges to be examined by the criminal court was

that both Srinivas and Gopalkrishnan held themselves out to be the partners

of PW, whereas in fact they were partners only of PW, Bangalore. The

question of cheating of SCSL was not part of the disciplinary proceedings at

all. Referring to the charge by the CBI that Srinivas was acting in collusion

with Mr. Raju, it is submitted that this again could not be the subject matter

of the disciplinary proceedings. The disciplinary proceedings would be W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 18 of 39 concerned only with the discrepancy in the accounts and, therefore, its scope

of enquiry will be much narrower than what will be examined by the Special

Court, CBI. 29. Mr. Srinivasan then contended that although the criminal case has been

assigned to a fast-track court, the fact that there are 433 witnesses and the

case is still at the stage of framing of charges, the trial is unlikely to

conclude speedily. He further submitted that one of the grounds on which

bail was sought and is granted was that the criminal trial is going to be a

long drawn one. Having made that submission before the Supreme Court

and obtained bail, it did not lie in the mouth of the Petitioners to now urge

that the disciplinary proceedings can be stayed in view of the expeditious

disposal of the criminal trial. He submitted that on the other hand the

decisions in State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena (1996) 6 SCC 417; Depot

Manager APSRTC v. Mohd Yousuf Miya (1997) 2 SCC 699; Kendriya

Vidyalaya v. T. Srinivas ( 2004) 7 SCC 442 and Hindustan Petroleum

Corporation Ltd. v. Sarvesh Berry (2005) 10 SCC 471 emphasized that the

disciplinary proceedings cannot be postponed indefinitely to await the

conclusion of a criminal trial. 30. It is submitted that there is no provision in the CA Act for suspending

the two Petitioners from practice as Chartered Accountants. It would cause

severe prejudice to public interest if, despite facing serious criminal charges

as well as charges of professional misconduct, the Petitioners are permitted

to have the disciplinary proceedings against them under the CA Act postponed indefinitely. Reliance is also placed on the judgments of this W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 19 of 39 Court in Brahma Prakash Kalra v. NTPC 96 ( 2002) DLT 369, CT. Krishan

Kumar v. Union of India [judgment dated 31st May 2007 in Writ Petition

(C) 2384 of 2007] and of the Bombay High Court in Anupama Naik v.

Standard Chartered Bank 2007 BCR (4) 549. Mr. Srinivasan submitted that

by appearing before the disciplinary proceedings and offering their

explanations for misconduct, no prejudice could be caused to either

Petitioner. If they are exonerated on a lesser standard of proof, they would

not be prejudiced in the criminal trial at all. Mr. Srinivasan submitted on

instructions that in the disciplinary proceedings, the examination of SP

(CBI) as a witness is only for the purposes of marking the documents, i.e.

the CBI‟s charge sheet. Likewise, the other witnesses from the CBI will be

examined only for the purposes of marking the relevant records. He

submitted that Mr. Uttam Prakash Agarwal is not proposed to be examined

as a witness in the disciplinary proceedings, and would not participate in the

disciplinary proceedings. It is submitted that merely labeling the charges in a

criminal case as `grave‟ will not suffice and the burden will be on the

Petitioners to show that these are, in fact, grave criminal charges. It is

submitted that the disciplinary proceedings ought to be allowed to proceed in

accordance with law. Factors influencing stay of disciplinary proceedings pending criminal trial 31. Before proceeding to discuss the contentions of the counsel for the

parties, it is necessary to recapitulate the current legal position as regards the

continuation of disciplinary proceedings when a criminal trial on the same

charges is pending. W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 20 of 39 32. The question whether the disciplinary proceedings can be allowed to

proceed when a criminal trial is pending on the same charges has invariably

arisen in the domain of service law. The cases discussed hereinafter will

show that the context invariably has been of an employee facing disciplinary

proceedings over a set of charges, which are either similar or identical to the

charges forming the subject matter of a criminal trial in which such

employee is the accused. 33. In Delhi Cloth & General Mills Ltd. v. Kushal Bhan AIR 1960 SC 806,

it was acknowledged that it was not a principle of natural justice "that an

employer must wait for the decision at least of the criminal trial court before

taking action against an employee." However, it was observed by the

Supreme Court that "if the case is of a grave nature or involves questions

of fact or law, which are not simple, it would be advisable for the

employer to await the decision of the trial court, so that the defence of the

employee in the criminal case may not be prejudiced." (emphasis supplied) 34. In Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd. v. Workmen AIR 1965 SC 155, it was held to

be "desirable" to stay the domestic enquiry pending final disposal of the

criminal case. In Jang Bahadur Singh v. Baij Nath Tiwari AIR 1969 SC

30, it was held that "the initiation and continuation of disciplinary

proceedings in good faith is not calculated to obstruct or interfere with the

course of justice in the pending court proceeding. The employee is free to

move the court for an order restraining the continuance of the disciplinary

proceedings." In Kusheshwar Dubey v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. AIR 1988

SC 2118, the Supreme Court after analyzing the case law found that "it is W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 21 of 39 neither possible nor advisable to evolve a hard and fast strait-jacket formula

valid for all cases and of general application without regard to the

particularities of the individual situation." In the facts of that case, it was

found that since the "criminal action and the disciplinary proceedings are

grounded upon the same set of facts", the disciplinary proceedings should

have been stayed. 35. In Nelson Motis v. Union of India AIR 1992 SC 1981, it was held that

the disciplinary proceedings could be continued even after the employee had

been acquitted by the criminal court since the standard of proof was

different. Moreover, the Court found that the subject matter of the

disciplinary proceedings in that case was not exactly the same as in the

criminal case. 36. In State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena (1996) 6 SCC 417, the State

Government issued a memo of charges in regard to the allegation that the

Respondent had misappropriated public funds while working as Additional

Collector-cum-Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Jaipur

in the year 1989. An FIR had been registered in relation thereto on 12th

March 1990. The Respondent had been arrested on 26th March 1990. After

responding to the articles of charges in the disciplinary proceedings, the

Respondent filed a petition before the Central Administrative Tribunal,

Jaipur challenging the disciplinary proceedings. The CAT stayed the

disciplinary proceedings. Thereafter the State of Rajasthan revoked the order

of suspension and reinstated him. The Respondent thus amended his petition

before the CAT and asked for the stay of the disciplinary enquiry. The CAT W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 22 of 39 stayed the disciplinary proceedings pending the conclusion of the criminal

trial. The Supreme Court reversed the CAT‟s order. After analyzing the

relevant case law, it observed as under (SCC @ p.422-423): 37. The other factor on facts which weighed with the Supreme Court in B.K.

Meena was that (SCC @ p. 423): The further factor that weighed with the Supreme Court was that the

standard of proof in the disciplinary proceedings and that in the criminal trial

would be different. It must be mentioned here that the observations in para

14 in B.K. Meena were heavily relied upon by Mr. Srinivasan, learned

Senior counsel for the Respondent No. 1 ICAI to urge that the disciplinary

proceedings may be stayed only where there are criminal cases involving

questions of grave nature of both fact and law. He urged that in the present

case there were no grave questions of law, which have been shown by the

Petitioners to be involved in the criminal proceedings that warranted stay of

disciplinary proceedings. 38. In Depot Manager APSRTC v. Mohd Yousuf Miya , the APSRTC

initiated disciplinary proceedings against the Respondent driver on the

ground that he had caused an accident in which a cyclist died. Prosecution W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 25 of 39 was also launched against the driver under Section 304, Part II of the IPC in

the criminal court. The High Court stayed the departmental enquiry pending

criminal trial. This ruling of the High Court was reversed by the Supreme

Court. After discussing the earlier decisions, it was observed in that case that

the charge in the disciplinary proceedings was about the failure to anticipate

the accident and prevention thereof. It was concluded that "it has nothing to

do with the culpability of the offence under Section 304-A and 338 IPC."

It was reiterated that (SCC @ p. 704): 39. In M. Paul Anthony v. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. , the appellant was a

Security Officer in Bharat Gold Mines, a government undertaking. In a

police raid, a mining sponge gold ball weighing 4.5 grams and 1276 grams

of gold-bearing sand were recovered from the appellant‟s house. He was

placed under suspension and disciplinary proceedings were commenced.

Criminal proceedings were also initiated. On the conclusion of the

disciplinary proceedings, the appellant was dismissed from service.

Thereafter he was acquitted by the criminal court with the categorical

finding that the prosecution had failed to establish its case. On the basis of W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 26 of 39 his acquittal, he requested for reinstatement which was turned down. After

unsuccessfully challenging it before the High Court, the appellant

approached the Supreme Court. It was held that the criminal case and

departmental proceedings were based on identical set of facts and in the

circumstances, "it would be unjust, unfair and rather oppressive to allow the

findings recorded at the ex parte departmental proceedings to stand." The

witnesses who were examined by the enquiry officer in the departmental

proceedings were the same witnesses who were examined in the criminal

case. Since there was no iota of difference in the facts and evidence in the

departmental and criminal proceedings, it was concluded that "the

distinction, which is usually drawn as between the departmental proceedings

and the criminal case on the basis of approach and burden of proof, would

not be applicable to the instant case." In arriving at the above conclusion, the

Supreme Court had an occasion to review the entire case law up to that point

in time and summarized the position as under (SCC @ p. 691): 40. On account of the above decision in M.Paul Anthony, much of the

argument in the present petitions centered on whether the Petitioners were

facing charges in the criminal cases which were identical to that forming

subject matter of the disciplinary proceedings before the ICAI; whether the

charges in the criminal court were of a grave nature, and whether they

involved "complicated questions of law and fact." 41. To continue the discussion of the decisions on the point, the question

again arose in Kendriya Vidyalaya v. T. Srinivas . There the Respondent,

while working with the appellant Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan („KVS‟) as

an Upper Division Clerk, was arrested with the CBI and charged for the W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 28 of 39 offence under Section 7 read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of

Corruption Act, 1988 (`PCA‟). During the pendency of the criminal trial,

departmental proceedings were initiated. The Tribunal stayed the

disciplinary proceedings till the disposal of the trial. The KVS challenged

the decision in the High Court stating that they should be permitted to

proceed in the departmental enquiry at least in regard to Charge 3 which was

independent of Charges 1 and 2. This was rejected by the High Court

holding that Charge 3 was interconnected with the other two charges. The

Supreme Court, while allowing the appeal of the KVS, found that the

Tribunal and the High Court proceeded on an erroneous principle as if the

stay of the disciplinary proceedings "is a must in every case where there is a

criminal trial on the very same charges." The Court followed the decision in State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena , and reversed the High Court‟s judgment. 42. In State Bank of India v. R.B. Sharma (2004) 7 SCC 27, the High Court

order staying the departmental proceedings was reversed by the Supreme

Court only on the ground that the High Court had come to an abrupt

conclusion that the employee had been able to show that the entire matter in

the departmental proceedings and the criminal court was the same. Since no

details had been given to justify this conclusion, it was directed that the High

Court should rehear the matter. 43. In HPCL v. Sarvesh Berry, the CBI raided the house of the Respondent

in 1998 and charged him with having been in possession of assets

disproportionate to his known sources of income. After obtaining sanction

for prosecution, the CBI filed a charge sheet. The criminal trial did not W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 29 of 39 progress for at least four years. In the disciplinary proceedings initiated by

the employer, there were three charges. The first related to possession of

assets disproportionate to the known sources of income and the other two

related to misconduct relating to non-disclosure or non-submission of

property returns as required by the conduct rules. A Division Bench of the

High Court held that the second and third charges were related to the first

charge and it would not be safe to permit the employer to continue the

departmental proceedings till the completion of the criminal case. Allowing

the appeal of the employer, the Supreme Court held as under (SCC @ p. 475): Thereafter in para 13 it was observed as under (SCC @ p. 477): Consequently the employer was permitted to continue the departmental

proceedings. 44. In NOIDA Entrepreneurs Association v. NOIDA (2007) 10 SCC 375, it

was again held that there was a subtle difference between a departmental

enquiry and the criminal proceedings, the standards of proof in which were

different. The order of the State Government not to continue the

departmental enquiry was held unsustainable and the departmental enquiry

was directed to continue. In Indian Overseas Bank v. P. Ganesan , the

Supreme Court again answered in the negative the question whether the

pendency of a criminal case by itself would be a sufficient ground for stay of

the departmental proceedings. Additionally in that case , it was noticed that

the departmental proceedings against the employees in question had made

considerable progress and a large number of witnesses had already been

examined. Applicability of the M Paul Anthony test to the present cases 45. The judgments of the Supreme Court discussed hereinbefore by and

large permitted the continuation of disciplinary proceedings notwithstanding

the pendency of a criminal case on the same charges. In applying the law

explained in the above cases to the present petitions, the Court is called upon

to examine: (a) are the charges on which the disciplinary proceedings are

proposed to be held identical or nearly similar to the charges on which they

are facing criminal proceedings? (b) Are the criminal charges of a grave

nature? (c) Do the charges involve complicated questions of law and fact? 46. It may at the outset be noticed that in the criminal case, arguments on

charge which were in progress when these petitions were argued have been W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 32 of 39 framed by the Special Judge on 25th October 2010. The offences mentioned

in the charge sheets do allege that the Petitioners have committed offences

which could be characterized as being of a „grave‟ nature. These include the

offences under Sections 409, 420, 468, 471, 477-A, 201 r/w Section 120-B IPC. Secondly, a comparison of the charges in the disciplinary proceedings

with those in the criminal trial indicates that while the charges in the former

will all be examined in the latter as well, the converse is not true. There

would be additional matters that are likely to be examined in the criminal

trial. This brings up the third limb, i.e. whether the charges involve

complicated questions of law and fact? It may be recalled that in B.K.

Meena the Supreme Court has reiterated that criminal case should be of a

grave nature "involving complicated questions of fact and law." In other

words, it is not sufficient for a Petitioner resisting departmental proceedings

to show that the criminal case is based on an identical set of facts but that it

involves complicated questions of both fact and law. 47. The learned senior counsel for the ICAI was right in the submission that

apart from merely stating that the charges involve complicated questions of

law and fact there has been nothing actually shown by the Petitioners to

demonstrate this. Whether in fact the charges that are stated to have been

framed on 25th October 2010 by the Special Judge involve complicated

questions of law and fact cannot be determined unless they are studied in

some detail and further after the trial progresses. Also, the mere fact that the

number of witnesses is large or that the alleged fraud is of a large sum need

not by itself mean that the questions of fact and law are complicated.

Thirdly, even if in criminal cases, the facts may be invariably complicated, W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 33 of 39 the question of law need not be. Understandably therefore, the learned senior

counsel for the Petitioners did not address the Court on this particular aspect

except to repeat the requirement of M Paul Anthony that the criminal case

involved complicated questions of law and fact. This however is not

sufficient if the court has to be persuaded to stay the disciplinary

proceedings. 48. The inescapable conclusion is that the third and important limb of the

test evolved in the decisions discussed hereinbefore and succinctly

summarised in M Paul Anthony has not been shown by the Petitioners to be

satisfied in their cases viz., that the criminal cases in which they are arrayed

as accused involve complicated questions of law and fact. They have

therefore been unable to persuade this Court, on the basis of the law

explained above, to stay the disciplinary proceedings pending the conclusion

of the criminal trial. Other factors 49. One important factor in each of the above decisions that have been

discussed is that the issue arose in the context of service law where the

desirability of permitting an employee continuing to discharge official duties

pending disciplinary proceedings weighed with the courts. In the present

writ petitions, although the Petitioners cannot be equated with government

servants, they too have been charged with professional misconduct in not

discharging their duties, as expected of a professional chartered accountant

in terms of the CA Act . A chartered accountant who continues to have a

privilege of practising as such notwithstanding the fact that he may be facing W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 34 of 39 charges of professional misconduct is indeed a matter of concern. It is no

less than having a government servant facing disciplinary proceedings on

serious charges. What is more significant is that a chartered accountant

cannot be suspended from practice and there is nothing to prevent a

chartered accountant practising as such till such time the disciplinary

proceedings come to an end. 50. Relying on the observations of the Supreme Court in M Paul Anthony

[SCC para 22 (v)] to the effect that the disciplinary proceedings can be

asked to continue if "the criminal case does not proceed or its disposal is

being unduly delayed", it was urged that since there is a designated fast track

court that has been asked to conclude the criminal trial before 31st July 2011,

the disciplinary proceedings, even if stayed on account of the pendency of

the criminal case, could be resumed and proceeded with soon thereafter and

would therefore not get indefinitely postponed. This Court is not persuaded

to accept this submission. The penultimate paragraph of the Supreme

Court‟s order dated 26th October 2010 acknowledges that if the trial is

unable to conclude before 31st July 2011 the accused whose bail have been

cancelled can apply afresh for bail. In any event, unless this Court is shown

that the charges involve complicated questions of law and fact the case for

stay of disciplinary proceedings pending the conclusion of the criminal trial

cannot be said to be made out. The right against self-incrimination 51. One of the points urged by learned Senior counsel for the Petitioners is

that during the course of cross-examination of the witnesses for the ICAI in W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 35 of 39 the disciplinary proceedings, the Petitioners will be compelled to disclose

their defence which might prejudice them in the criminal trial and, therefore,

this would take away one of their valuable rights under Article 20(3) of the

Constitution as far as the criminal trial is concerned. Article 20(3) talks of

the right against self-incrimination. The scope and ambit of this right has

been explained in Romesh Chandra Mehta v. State of West Bengal AIR

1970 SC 940. The context in that case was about facing proceedings under

the Sea Customs Act, 1878 while facing criminal trial on the same set of

charges. It was argued that by being compelled to disclose the defence in the

proceedings under the Sea Customs Act, the Petitioner there would be

disclosing the entire defence in the criminal trial and, therefore, it would be

violative of his constitutional right under Article 20(3). This plea was,

however, negatived by the Supreme Court on the following reasoning (AIR

@ p. 945): But in order that the guarantee against testimonial compulsion
 incorporated in Article 20(3) may be claimed by a person it has
 to be established that when he made the statement sought to be
 tendered in evidence against him, he was a person accused of an
 offence. Under Section 171-A of the Sea Customs Act, a
 Customs Officer has power in an enquiry in connection with the
 smuggling of goods to summon any person whose attendance
 he considers necessary, to give evidence or to produce a
 document or any other thing, and by Clause (3) the person so
 summoned is bound to state the truth upon any subject
 respecting which he is examined or makes statements and to
 produce such documents and other things as may be required.
 The expression "any person" includes a person who is
 suspected or believed to be concerned in the smuggling of
 goods. But a person arrested by a Customs Officer because he
 is found in possession of smuggled goods or on suspicion that
 he is concerned in smuggling is not when called upon by the
 Customs Officer to make a statement or to produce a document
 or thing, a person accused of an offence within the meaning of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. The steps taken by the
 Customs Officer are for the purpose of holding an enquiry
 under the Sea Customs Act and for adjudging confiscation of
 goods dutiable or prohibited and imposing penalties. The
 Customs Officer does not at that stage accuse the person
 suspected of infringing the provisions of the Sea Customs Act W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 37 of 39 with the commission of any offence. His primary duty is to
 prevent smuggling and to recover duties of customs when
 collecting evidence in respect of smuggling against a person
 suspected of infringing the provisions of the Sea Customs Act,
 he is not accusing the person of any offence punishable at a trial
 before a Magistrate. In Maqbool Hussain v. The State of
 Bombay , 1953 SCR 730, the Court held that a person against
 whom an order for confiscation of goods had been made in
 proceedings taken by Customs Officers under Section 167 of
 the Sea Customs Act and was subsequently prosecuted before a
 Magistrate for offences under the Foreign Exchange Regulation
 Act, 1947 , could not plead the protection of Article 20(2) , since
 he was not "prosecuted" before the Customs authorities, and the
 order for confiscation was not a "punishment" inflicted by a
 Court or judicial tribunal within the meaning of Article 20(2) of
 the Constitution and the prosecution was not barred." 52. The position in law would be no different as regards the Petitioners

having to depose before the disciplinary committee in proceedings under the CA Act . Consequently, this Court is unable to accept the plea that by being

asked to appear in the disciplinary proceedings under the CA Act , the

fundamental right of the Petitioners under Article 20(3) vis-à-vis the

criminal trial would be violated. The contention that the Petitioners have no

right of silence in the disciplinary proceedings and, therefore, their

statements in those proceedings will amount to disclosure of their defence in

the criminal trial is without merit in view of the fact that the very nature of

the two proceedings is different as explained in the above decisions.

Conclusion 53. For all of the aforementioned reasons, this Court finds no ground having W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 38 of 39 been made out by the Petitioners for the grant of the reliefs as prayed for.

The writ petitions are dismissed with costs of Rs. 10,000/- each which will

be paid by the each of the Petitioners to the Respondent No. 1 ICAI within a

period of four weeks. The interim orders stand vacated. S. MURALIDHAR, J. NOVEMBER 22, 2010
akg W.P.(C) Nos. 2505 & 5352 of 2010 Page 39 of 39