I am Prashanthi, resident of Hyderabad with mail id [protected]@gmail.com. I am looking for a job change and uploaded my resume in Shine.com. I have received a call from one of the shine executives (Akanksha - [protected]) who suggested that I opt for the paid service of Rs. 2, 949/- which is valid for 6 months, where my resume will be scrutinized and I will be getting 2 job openings daily matching my profile. I have received the calls from other job portals as well for paid services but I opted to go with shine.com believing that it is a reputed organisation which is a part of Hindustan Times Media. After paying the fee of Rs 2, 949/- I received a call from a Senior Relation Manager (Mr. Nitin - [protected]) on 18th Aug, 2020 for completing my profile and sent me a mail for the fee payment of Rs5, 192/- for verification of certificates. He insisted that the fee has to be paid immediately. I had asked him repeatedly that will there be no further fee to be paid in order to complete my profile for which he promised and confirmed that there will be no further fee to be paid. On 19th Aug, 2020, I paid the verification fee of Rs. 5, 192/- and called Mr. Nitin to inform him of the same. Nitin started to ask me to pay further fee of Rs. 7, 197/- for further verification and he was trying to bluff that he has sent two payment request mails the before day.In real he has sent only one payment request mail for Rs. 5, 192/-. As we are not interested to pay the further fee we asked for the refund of the paid amount for which he replied rudely that it cannot be refunded and for the basic package they will send just 2 job openings daily and apply directly if I am interested. I have clear call recordings and the receipts for my payments. My husband wants to go legally regarding this as your representatives are misleading and bluffing saying everything is informed and treating the clients with no respect when they refuse to pay the fee. There is absolutely no response for the calls I have made to shine.com, this is the worst experience and how come you want suck money from the needy and job less people, would that digest you any way, those are hardened money. Just keep in mind that We never will be intrested in your fraud services