SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scams of India
DATE: 2025-01-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hwdd9a/scams_of_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

Initially I wanted to flair it as crime, but I didn’t know whether it would be right one

Hey everyone, I have been on a tour across India, from Karnataka to Uttarakhand, and during my travels what I’ve understood is that Hindus of this country may be(because politics say so) in danger due to heterogenous religions but they definitely are in danger due to religious patriots cum scamsters

So, let me start with small one.

In Pune, today, u came across a group of guys, dressed wholly in white and wearing conical turbans with Mahadeva on top. They essentially are 3rd class magicians. That’s all. They’ll engage you into some generic bullcrap about you by looking at your physical characterstics and then fearmonger you about some eminent dangers/period of danger. Then they’ll suggest a generic solution and then push for their own “panacea”. They’ll start you on a spending spree and during conversation will distract you to replace a thread, given earlier and broken by you, to swap with another. They will keep on pestering you with no inhibitions for more and more money.

The solutions are pretty simple, first is to simply ignore. But let’s say you got trapped, you need to have an account with low balance.

I spent about 21k here to stay till end and understand the whole gimmick. So simply, there’s just small switcheroo

Now let’s go on the big one.

I visited Kashi. And it is a long standing tradition over there that before worshipping of Mahadeva, you have to worship Kala Bhairava. The line is huge, or mammoth to be more appropriate. Now the reason I say it’s huge is, because it is done within premises. Once you get to worship shrine, and get off platform, number of Pujaris are sitting to tie you a string. Which is ok. Kalava is sacred for many and most have faith in it. But here is the actual fun part. They will call you with a certain authority in voice. Which isn’t the issue. They will tie the thread reading Bhairava Chalisa, I think because he wasn’t audible and fluent, and then ask you money. Now the amount here is small, about 500-1k but that’s not a request, it’s a literal ‘give me money’ order.

Such a prestigious temple and you have people in the temple doing something improperly. And the end result is thousands of people losing money in the premises else they start to throw abuses. I mean, this is sad. Sorry state of affairs. Leave this “Vishwaguru” crap, why are temples even after getting funds have such miscreants on campus?

And now the ‘International’ scam

So there is no doubt Hrishikesh(Tapovan and above) and Haridwar have basically become foreigners picnic spot and lavish escort station. But the scam that I encountered was an organic store called ‘Tatva’. There are 100s of organic store in the same area probably but why I’m calling this one out specifically is because it slaps a “USDA” approved sticker on its shop. So I went into shop and men are they not scamming. I’m pretty sure half the inventory there is not USDA approved. This is disappointing. Just plain fake promises.

Honestly it has been such a disappointing experience that I’ve had and the sheer audacity this has spread in country. I really wish we had some scam report feature in banks or something like that. So many people constantly pestering you and with so much time in hand. Hmm. I’m just disappointed today. I’ve had lost about 30k during these past months to understand the extent of scams, some that I’ve not mentioned, and what I understand is that there is nothing you can do. Absolutely nothing. You may seek help of technology but the truth is no one wants to help you here. You are entirely on your own.

I don’t know whether it’s the amount that I lost to explore all of this, which has caused me a major dent is speaking or the disappointment I feel thinking about how so many people in this nation everyday is getting duped is, the one thing that’s sure is I’m disheartened today.

PS: Do ask me for any other scams if you wish to know. Also, that guy in white said to promise him that I wont say any if this to anyone(via swearing on mother or mother goddess), so here I’m typing this.