SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: VEERZAARA.IN: BEWARE!! SCAMmed by the e-commerce outlet veerzaara.in! Additionally read the post down below (if you can spare the time)
DATE: 2019-01-06
SCORE: 38
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ad3h4c/veerzaarain_beware_scammed_by_the_ecommerce/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: Reeled in by a flashy Facebook ad, my mother ordered 2 designer gowns only to be shipped TORN, SECOND HAND SAREES. The "post sales support" is unresponsive. Based on online reviews, this is the MO of this scam. Your valuable suggestions (including regarding cross-posting) are welcome to help her claim her refund and also to bring these scamming bast*rds (excuse my french) to justice.

My mother having been reeled in by a flashy UI and huge discounts (upwards of 90%) on designer gowns ordered 2 of them on a COD basis from the seller veerzaara.in. Although the discounts did make her a bit skeptical, she came across the ad for this store on Facebook and mistook that for a proof of credibility.
The package arrived yesterday as promised through SpeedPost and the delivery process was supported by SMS notifications and a tracking facility. All of these "features" meant that her skepticism slowly made way for excitement and anticipation.
Upon the delivery by the postman, she demanded that she inspect the contents before making the payment. However, despite an argument explaining her stand, the postman denied her this claiming the act to be against the policies. She made the payment and to her horror found SECOND HAND, TORN SAREES INSTEAD OF THE PROMISED DESIGNER GOWNS in the package.
She tried contacting the support for a refund or replacement only to find it unresponsive. She then brought this to my notice.
A simple Google search later (admittedly something that she should have done in the first place), this e-commerce website VEERZAARA.IN was revealed as a scam to me.

1) I made her report the ad to Facebook to avoid other people befalling her fate but I doubt if it will be removed

2) Since this package was delivered on Saturday (6/1/19) evening, I shall enquire of the postmaster on Monday if the package can be returned.

3) My family's experience with the consumer forum has been a very sour one. Even though it was just one incident about 10 years back when I had just entered my teens, this avenue also doesn't seem promising.

My mother seems to have lost all hope and has chalked it up to bad debt.
I'm lost for ideas and thus am posting here.

Edit: Formatting (line breaks) of the points