Signzy, a company that offers identity verification services to financial institutions, suffered a cyberattack last week, reported TechCrunch . The hack reportedly involved the use of an ‘information stealer malware,’ after which two of Signzy’s clients found their customer data on cybercrime forums online, which led to alarm bells. An information stealer malware resides in an infected computer and sends data to the hacker, which can include login credentials and personal information. The company stated that it informed its clients, regulators, and stakeholders about the security incident and had hired a professional agency to carry out an investigation.

India-based organisations face the second-highest number of weekly cyberattacks in the Asia Pacific region during Q2 2024, claimed a report from Check Point Research . This meant that Indian organisations faced 3,201 attacks per week, with an average of 1,636 attacks per organisation per week.

An annual report from the Data Security Council of India also reported 400 million malware detections in 2023, with trojans (41%) and infectors (33%) being the dominant threats.

This year has also seen a number of high-profile cybersecurity incidents affecting both governments and private companies. India’s largest health insurance provider, Star Health, suffered a cyberattack in September, with the personal data of potentially 31 million users put for sale on Telegram. This included Personally Identifiable Information (PII) like policy and claims, documents featuring names, phone numbers, addresses, tax details, copies of ID cards, test results, and medical diagnoses. The Agricultural Ministry’s official website was also reportedly hacked last month.

A popular crime reporting app called HawkEye, launched by the Telangana police, also suffered a cyberattack in June this year. Similar to the Signzy case, hackers uploaded the sensitive data of users to online hacking forums.

Crypto platform WazirX also suffered a cyberattack from North Korean hackers, which resulted in USD 230 million being stolen. This comes at a time when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Deputy Governor Swaminathan J had called cybersecurity “one of the biggest concerns of the digital era.” He also urged banks to conduct regular audits and simulated exercises to increase resilience, mitigating cyber risks.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event