MediaNama’s Take: With the acquisition of fintech company Axio, e-commerce giant Amazon has added a Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) licence to its cart. The buyout is significant from Amazon’s point of view, as it will enable the company to disburse loans directly to customers. Until now, it relied on banks and other NBFCs to distribute loans for buy now pay later schemes, EMIs and even small personal and business loans.

Through Axio, the world’s largest online retailer seeks a share of India’s booming digital lending market, which is projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 30.2% to reach a projected revenue of $2.37 billion by 2030 from $502 million in 2024, according to a Grand View Research report.

The timing of the deal is particularly noteworthy. Amazon’s rival Flipkart secured an NBFC licence from the central bank in June, becoming the first e-commerce player in the country to offer direct lending. While the company is allowed to lend, it cannot accept deposits from customers.

With direct access to a lending licence, Amazon is now better positioned to compete against Flipkart’s payments app, super.money, which outpaced Amazon Pay in terms of UPI transaction volume in July. As per data from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), super.money recorded nearly 253 million UPI transactions in July, compared to Amazon Pay, which logged 100.5 million transactions.

Amazon said on Thursday that it has acquired digital lending startup Axio after getting approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as the e-commerce giant looks to expand its financial services offerings.

Amazon declined to comment on the terms of the deal, nor did it disclose the valuation of Axio. Sources aware of the development told MediaNama that the size of the transaction was around $200 million (about Rs 1764 crore), making it one of the largest buyouts of Amazon in India to date.

In December last year, Axio had signed a definitive agreement with Amazon for an acquisition. With the deal getting necessary regulatory approvals, Axio has become a 100% subsidiary of Amazon.

“With only 1 in 6 Indian customers having access to checkout financing, growing access to credit is a fundamental priority for Amazon,” said Mahendra Nerurkar, Vice President, Payments at Amazon India.

The acquisition will allow Amazon to offer new credit products, including checkout finance, to small and medium businesses on its platform.

As part of the latest deal, all existing investors will fully exit Axio, with its current leadership continuing to run the show, a source aware of the matter told MediaNama.

“With Amazon’s reach, customer centricity and balance sheet depth, we are well-positioned to build on our product portfolio and existing partnerships to take digital lending to the next 100 million Indians – responsibly and at scale,” said Gaurav Hinduja and Sashank Rishyasringa, cofounders of axio.

Founded in 2013 by Gaurav Hinduja and Sashank Rishyasringa, axio started its journey as an online capital financing platform under the brand name Capital Float. In 2022, it rebranded as axio, bringing its checkout finance services, pay layer, personal credit, and money management tools under one umbrella.

Notably, Amazon first invested in Axio through its Smbhav Venture Fund, with an initial $22 million investment in 2018 and a further $20 million in August last year. The investments were part of Amazon’s broader push into India’s fintech sector.

According to Tracxn data, Axio has raised about $206 million in funding to date and counts marquee investors such as Lightrock, Elevation Capital, Sequoia and Ribbit Capital among its backers. Axio competes against the likes of ZestMoney, Simpl, Snapmint and Lazypay in the digital lending space.

Amazon has been doubling down on its investments in its fintech arm for quite some time now. Earlier in April, the company invested Rs 350 crore in Amazon Pay, the Economic Times reported , citing the company’s regulatory filings. Last year, Amazon invested Rs 900 crore in its Indian payments unit in two separate transactions.

The capital infusion came despite Amazon Pay losing further ground to leading payment companies such as PhonePe, Google, Paytm, Navi, and super.money, among others, in the UPI ecosystem. As of July 2025, Amazon Pay held a modest 0.5% share in the country’s rapidly growing UPI market, versus PhonePe’s 45.9% versus Google Pay’s 35.6%, according to NPCI data .

Amazon Pay currently offers a wide range of services, such as buy now pay later , UPI transactions, bill payments and insurance premium payments. In the past few years, it has also partnered with platforms such as BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip, IRCTC, RedBus and Kuvera to foray into ticketing, travel and wealth management .

Through the acquisition of Axio, Amazon aims to offer full-stack financial offerings in India, and given its strong e-commerce footprint, digital lending could potentially be a significant growth area for the company. It already owns a mobile wallet licence, a payment aggregator licence, and an insurance broking licence.

In the past few months, several new-age tech companies in India have either acquired small NBFCs or sought a lending licence from the central bank. In March, Pune-based supply chain finance startup Vayana secured an NBFC licence from the RBI to expand its lending services, according to an Economic Times report.

Among other companies that have received an NBFC licence from the RBI are neobanking startup Jupiter and Kunal Shah-led CRED. Earlier this year , fintech company MobiKwik also floated an NBFC subsidiary, though it has yet to secure a lending licence.

The trend has picked up pace after the RBI introduced stricter norms for digital lending in 2022 and prohibited the First Loss Default Guarantee (FLDG) model, which allows fintech companies to compensate partner banks or NBFCs to a certain extent if the borrower defaults.

The FLDG framework previously benefited both banks and fintechs, reducing banks’ burden in case of loan defaults, while fintech companies could participate, either directly or indirectly, in lending. However, India’s banking regulator has since tightened its oversight of the fintech sector in the wake of alleged fraud, compliance lapses and lending malpractices by certain entities.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event