Per Bench

 These appeals at the instance of the assessee are directed
 against the final assessment orders passed separately u/s. 143(3) r.w.s.
 147, 92CA and 144C(13) dated 18.01.2024 for AYs 2013-14 &2014-
 15 and 25.1.2024 for AYs 2015-16 & 2016-17 respectively. The issue
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 2 of 43 involved in all these appeals is common and hence they are heard
together and disposed of by this consolidated order. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee, Google Ireland
Limited (GIL) is a foreign company having its registered office at
Ireland. The assessee is involved in the business of sale of online
advertisement space to Google India Pvt. Ltd. (GIPL) under Google
Reseller agreements dated 12.12.2005 and 1.7.2012 and to direct
advertisers. The assessee did not file the return of income for AYS
2013-14 TO 2016-17 on belief that revenue from sale of online
advertisement is not taxable in India. 3. The AO noted that the assessee has given the marketing &
distribution rights of Adwords program to GIPL without holding the
tax at source u/s. 195 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act). During
the proceedings u/s. 201 in the case of GIPL, it was found that GIPL
had paid an amount of Rs.11,149,188,289 during FY 2012-13 to GIL
towards marketing & distribution rights of Adwords program in India
and the receipts are taxable in the hands of GIL in India under the Act
and India-Ireland DTAA as royalty as per Explanation 2 to section
9(1)(vi) of the Act. The AO noted that the ITAT, Bangalore has held
the payments made to GIL towards Adwords program as royalty vide
its order dated 23.10.2017. 4. Based on the above information in the case of GIPL, the AO
observed that the assessee-GIL has not filed return of income for the
respective assessment years and not offered the receipts to tax and
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 3 of 43 therefore income escaped assessment for the above assessment years.
Notice under Section 148 of the Act was issued to the assessee. The
assessee filed Nil return of income pursuant to the notice u/s. 148 of
the Act and sought for the reasons recorded for reopening of the
assessment. On receipt of the reasons recorded for reopening the
assessment, the assessee raised its objections which were disposed by
the AO. During the course of assessment proceedings the matter was
referred to the Transfer Pricing Officer (TPO) and the TPO concluded
that no adjustment was required to the international transactions. The
assessee submitted before the AO that the order of the Tribunal dated
23.10.2017 in the case of GIPL holding that payments to GIL towards
Adwords program to be royalty was set aside by the Hon'ble High
Court of Karnataka and remanded to the Tribunal. After the remand
from High Court, the Tribunal vide its order dated 19.10.2022 in
IT(TP)A Nos.1513 to 1516/Bang/2013 for AYs 2009-10 to 2012-13
decided the issue of sale of online advertising space is not liable to be
taxed in India both under the Income-tax Act and DTAA. This order
was followed by the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
GIPL (payer) for AYs 2013-14 to 2016-17 in IT(IT)A
No.1190/Bang/2014 and connected appeals vide order dated
15.12.2022. However, the AO noted that department is in process of
filing further appeal in the said cases. It was held by the AO that in
view of the departmental stand and the interest of the revenue,
reassessment proceeding had to be completed. Accordingly, the AO
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 4 of 43 passed the draft assessment order making additions towards royalty
income as under:- 5. Against the draft assessment order the assessee filed objections
before the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP). The DRP rejected all the
objections of the assessee. Pursuant to the DPR directions, the
impugned final assessment orders were passed for the above years. 6. Aggrieved by the final assessment orders for AYs 2013-14 to
2016-17 the assessee filed present appeals before the Tribunal
challenging the addition made treating the payments received from
GIPL (payer) as royalty income. 7. The learned A.R. submitted that as regards the stream of income
received by the assessee from GIPL is concerned, the issue on merit is
squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the order of the Tribunal
in assessee's own case for AY 2007-18 in IT(IT)A
No.2845/Bang/2017 dated 28.2.2023. He further submitted that the
Tribunal in the case of Google India Pvt. Ltd. (Payer's case) in
IT(TP)A No.1513 to 1516/Bang/2013 concerning AYs 2009-19 to
2012-13 (order dated 19.10.2022) on an identical issue held that
impugned payment cannot be characterized as royalty. Following this
decision, the Tribunal also decided similar issue in favour of GIPL for
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 5 of 43 the relevant AYs viz., AYs 2013-14. 2014-15, 2015-16 & 2016-17 in ITA No. 1190/Bang/2014 and connected appeals dated 15.12.2022. 8. The ld. DR relied on the orders of the revenue authorities. 9. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the material on
record. Ground Nos.5 to 19 relate to the taxability of payments
received by the assessee from GIPL as per terms of Reseller
Agreements dated 12.12.2005 and 1.7.2012. This issue was
considered by the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in assessee's own
case for AY 2007-08 in IT(IT)A No.2845/Bang/2017 by order dated
28.02.2023 in para 8 & 9 of the order and it was held that the payment
made by the payer (GIPL) to the assessee (GIL) is not in the nature of
royalty or FTS and consequently it cannot be brought to tax in the
hands of the assessee. The relevant portion of the order is as under:- is listed two times among websites of various other businesses. The listing of the
website of "Ferns N Petals" at the top of the list is a sponsored link accompanied
by a small abbreviation "Ad", and the other listing is an organic search result as it
does not have any such abbreviation. [Page 318 of paper book 1] This is because,
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 7 of 43 "Ferns N Petals" utilised the "Google AdWords Program" to advertise its business
on the Google Search Engine. The targeting of advertisement is achieved by using
appropriate keywords, which can be selected only by the Advertiser. The Google
AdWords Program contains a glossary of keywords together with helpful
suggestions for the Advertiser to select appropriate keywords for his targeted
advertisement. Google AdWords Program also contains a number of computer
commands, by which the proposed Advertiser can achieve a more focused and
particularised targeting, such as geographical or area targeting (advertisement to
be shown only in a particular area, say the State of Karnataka) or period targeting
(advertisement to be shown only in a certain period) or time targeting
(advertisement to be shown only at certain fixed times during the day) or duration
targeting (to be shown only for a fixed time duration each time). All these types of
targeting are over and above the usual subject targeting and are achieved by
simple
computer commands, given by the proposed Advertiser on the Google AdWords
Program. All these facilities are available on the Google AdWords Program to any
member of the public, free of charge, to enable him to formulate a suitable draft
advertisement for his product or service. The only requirement is that the proposed
Advertiser should have a website of his own / or entity giving particulars about
his/ its business. The Google AdWords Program itself gives step-by-step and
detailed instructions, so that even a person who has a basic knowledge of
computers and internet can create a draft advertisement and target it suitably by
using the necessary computer commands (or tools). No payment is made for any
use of the Google AdWords Program. After formulating the draft advertisement,
the Advertiser is required to upload the same for display on Google Search Engine
or other online properties using the Google AdWords Program. No payment is
made for the same. Thereafter, the proposed advertisement is stored on the servers
of Google Ireland Ltd (GIL) located outside India for undergoing a review
process. 15. The review process is undertaken by GIL for advertisements uploaded by
Advertisers from all around the world including India. Approximately 94%
of global advertisements are reviewed by GIL through its automated system
located outside India. Remaining global advertisements, which are not
successfully reviewed by the automated system, are subjected to a manual
review. For carrying out manual review, the balance 6% (approx.) global
advertisements are forwarded to one of service centres of GIL's group
entities, located in USA, Dublin, China, Korea, Japan, and India. An
advertisement in English by an Indian Advertiser may go for manual review
to any of these service centres. These service centres carry out the activity of
manual review on a cost-plus basis. The assessee also carries out this
activity under the ITES segment as per the services agreement dated
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 8 of 43 1.4.2004 entered into with GIL. The relevant terms and conditions of this
agreement are as under: 1.3 "Derivative works Work" shall mean (i) for copyrightable or copyrighted
material, any modification. derivative works work (as defined in 17 USC. §101),
translation, abridgment, revision or other form in which such material may be
recast, transformed or adapted, (ii) for patentable or patented material, any
improvement thereon. and (iii) for material protected by trade secret, any new
material derived from such existing trade secret material, including new material
which may be protected to copyright, patent and/or trade secret. 1.4 "Documentation" shall mean any and all information, written or otherwise,
provided by Goode Ireland to Google India describing the Intellectual Property or
the Products and any updated, improved or modified version(s) of such materials
including information contained in published written materials, on magnetic media
or communicated by electronic means. 1.5 "intellectual Property' shall mean all intellectual, proprietary, and/or
intangible property rights constituting, embodied in. pertaining to, used in or with
respect to the business of GoogleIreland, the Products, or the provision of related
services and all tangible embodiments hereof, wherever located, including but not
limited to the following: (i) all trademarks, trade names, service marks, logos or
trade dress, including all registrations and applications therefor; (ii) all
copyrights. Moral Rights (as defined below), and other rights in works of
authorship including all registrations and applications therefor; (iii) all patents
and patent applications. patentable Ideas, Inventions, innovations and
improvements; (iv) all know-how and trade secrets; v) all design and code
documentation, methodologies, processes, design information, design flows,
encoding techniques, applications, product information. Formulae, engineering
specifications, technical data, testing procedures, drawings and techniques and
other proprietary information and materials of any kind; (vi) all software
programs in both source code and object code format. including all testing
software and software tools: (vii) all documentation, records, databases, drafts,
designs, codes, drawings and algorithms: and (viii) all confidential and
proprietary information related to any of (i) through (vii) above
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 10 of 43 ** ** **

1.10 "Software Embodiments" shall mean all designs, discoveries, inventions.
Products. procedures, improvements, developments, drawings, notes,
Documentation. information. materials, Intellectual Property and Derivative works
made, conceived or developed by Google India alone or with others which result
from or relate to the Services

1.11 "Software Technology" shall mean all Intellectual Property, Confidential
Information, Documentation, Derivative works Works and other technical data
used by GoogleIreland that are required, used or appropriate for the design and
development of Products. including the reproduction, use, testing, operation,
maintenance and service of such Products. 2.1 Request Google India hereby agrees to perform certain information
technology, information technology enabled services and software development
services, as requested by GoogleIreland from time to time, with respect to
Products, utilizing GoogleIreland Software Technology and other appropriate
technology from GoogleIreland or third parties which may be properly used for
these purposes. GoogleIreland will specify the information technology, information
technology enabled services and software development services to be performed,
the Products to be worked on or used, the time line for completion and the specific
results to be achieved (the Services"). 2.2 Performance. Upon agreement between GoogleIreland and Google India as to
the Services and completion date for a particular Services project, Google India
will perform the Services. Google India agrees to use commercially reasonable
efforts to perform the Services in a timely fashion and as described to it by
GoogleIreland. Google India may not subcontract work under this Agreement
unless specifically and to the extent set forth in the Services. Google India shall, at
all times, be responsible for work done by its subcontractors within the scope of
this Agreement as it is for work done by its own employees. At the option of
GoogleIreland, Google India shall make Goggle Ireland a party to the agreements
that Google India may execute with its subcontractors and GoogleIreland shall
have the right to pre-approve the terms and conditions of such agreements

 ** ** ** 5. OWNERSHIP
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 11 of 43 5.1 Intellectual Property. Google India acknowledges the exclusive right. title and
interest of GoogleIreland and its licensors and/or suppliers in and to any and all
Confidential Information, Intellectual Property, Software Technology and
Documentation, and Google India will not at any time do or cause to be done any
act or thing impairing or tending to impair any part of said right, title and interest.
Google India acknowledges and agrees that all such Confidential Information,
Intellectual Property, Software Technology and Documentation shall remain the
exclusive property of GoogleIreland and, as applicable, its licensors and/or
suppliers. 5.2 Ownership of Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments. Google
India shall keep GoogleIreland promptly informed of Google India's development
of any Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments and hereby irrevocably
agrees that all such Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments shall
forever be the sole and exclusive property of GoogleIreland throughout the world
from the date of its creation. As between GoogleIreland and Google India no
additional action shall be required to vest all right, title and ownership of such
Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments in GoogleIreland. Google
India shall furnish to GoogleIreland all such Derivative works Works and Software
Embodiments developed by Google India as soon as they become available. From
time to-time, promptly upon receipt of GoogleIreland's request, Google India shall
provide GoogleIreland with assignments, in substantially the form of Exhibit B
hereto to facilitate GoogleIreland's perfection of its rights in the Derivative works
and the Software Embodiments in any jurisdiction in the world. Google India shall
also promptly make available to GoogleIreland all Residuals. If Google India has
any rights to Derivative works or Software Embodiments that cannot be assigned
to GoogleIreland under law. Google India hereby waives the enforcement of such
rights; and if Google India has any rights which cannot be assigned or waived
under law, Google India hereby grants to GoogleIreland an exclusive, irrevocable,
perpetual, worldwide, transferable, folly paid licence, with rights to sub license
and assign, to all such rights. Google India shall enter into agreements with its
Representatives sufficient to permit Google India to make the foregoing grant of
rights. 6.1 Access and Use of Confidential Information. During the course of performance
of this Agreement, GoogleIreland will disclose certain Confidential Information to
Google India solely to permit Google India to perform its obligations under this
Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Google India agrees
that such Confidential Information shall be kept secret by Google India during the
term of this agreement and after the expiration hereof Google India shall refrain
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 12 of 43 from using or exploiting any and all Confidential Information for any purposes or
activities other than those contemplated in this Agreement. 6.2 Agreement Not to Disclose Confidential Information. Google India shall not
disclose or facilitate disclosure of such Confidential Information to any Person
without the prior consent of GoogleIreland, except to its Representatives, and then
only to the extent necessary for the performance of the activities contemplated by
this Agreement. Google India shall cause each of its Representatives with access to
the Confidential Information to enter into a nondisclosure agreement in a form
approved by GoogleIreland. Google India shall use the highest standard of care
currently employed by any developer or distributor of high technology products in
order to avoid disclosure or misappropriation of such Confidential Information. 6.3 Ownership and Return of Confidential Information. All files, lists, records.
documents, drawings, specifications, equipment and computer programs which
incorporate or refer to all or a portion of the Confidential Information shall
remain the sole property of Go ogle Ireland or its licensors and suppliers. Such
materials shall be promptly returned: (i) upon GoogleIreland's reasonable request,
or (ii) in accordance with Section 12 upon termination of this Agreement,
whichever is earlier. ** ** **

12.5 Rights and Duties of Termination. (a) Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement: 12-2005 with the-assessee, whereunder the assessee was appointed as a non-
exclusive distributor of online advertisement space in India In terms thereof, the
assessee set up its "Distribution Segment" for carrying out purchase and re-sale of
online advertisement space to Indian Advertisers. However, Indian Advertisers
who were willing to pay in foreign currency, continued to transact directly with
GIL. The Google AdWords Program and its features remains the same whether the
Advertiser in India purchases online advertisement space from GIL or its
authorised distributor i.e., the assessee. The only difference is where Indian
Advertiser purchases from the assessee, it pays in INR whereas where Indian
advertiser purchases from GIL, it pays in foreign currency. 17. In a case where the assessee is involved in purchase and resale of online
advertisement space to Advertiser and if such Advertiser finds it difficult to use
Google AdWords Program, he can get guidance and assistance from the
employees of the assessee working under the Distribution Segment. However,
substantial portion of Indian Advertisers in India prepare their draft
advertisements themselves, with the aid of the Google AdWords Program itself. All
this is completely free and is open to any member of the public. No payment is
made for any use of the Google AdWords Program. In fact, even after using the
Google AdWords Program and formulating/displaying an online advertisement, no
payment is made by the Advertiser, unless the Ad is clicked by an end-user.
Relevant terms and conditions of the Distribution Agreement are as under:- NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants,
agreements, representations and warranties hereinafter set forth, Google and
Distributor hereby agree as follows 1. Definitions. The following capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth
below. 1.1 ''Advertiser'' means an individual or business resident or having its principal
place of business located within the Territory (as defined herein), where principal
place of business is determined by the place of an entity's registration. 1.2 ''AdWords Program" means the advertising program currently offered by
Google under the name ''AdWords.''

1.3 "Brand Features" means the trade names. trademarks, service marks, logos,
domain names, and other distinctive brand features of each party, respectively, as
secured by such party from time to time. 1.4 "Designated Contact" means those contacts designated by each party as the
point of contact or contacts for a particular function area related to this
Agreement. 1.5 "Google Brand Features" means the Google trade names, trademarks, service
marks, logos, domain names, and other distinctive brand features, with some but
not all examples at "http://www.google. comipermissionsltrademarks.html" (or
such other URL that Google may provide from time to time), and such other trade
names, trademarks, service marks, logos, domain names, or other distinctive brand
features that Google may provide to Distributor for use solely under this
Agreement. 1.6 "Intellectual Property Rights" shall mean any and all rights existing from time
to time under patent law, copyright law, semiconductor chip protection law, moral
rights law, trade secret law, trademark law, unfair competition law, publicity
rights law, privacy rights law, and any and all other proprietary rights, as well as,
any and all applications, renewals, extensions, restorations and re-instatements
thereof now or hereafter in force and effect worldwide. 1.7 "Keywords" means words chosen by an advertiser through the AdWords
Program for a given set of one or more advertisements that are used to target
those advertisements to potential customers. IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 15 of 43 1.10 "User Data" means all data and information provided by users via the
AdWords Program, including all registration data, names, email addresses, other
addresses, contact information, and other identifying information. 2. Appointment of Territory and Distributor Obligations. 2.1 Appointment of Territory. Google appoints Distributor as a nonexclusive
authorized Distributor of Go ogle AdWords Program to Advertisers, all under and
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Distributor shall conduct its business for its own account, in its own name, aid not
as an agent, employee, partner, or franchisee of Google. Distributor may not
solicit business from and shall not distribute AdWords Program to (even if
unsolicited), any entity that does not have a principal place of business within the
Territory. For the avoidance of doubt, an entity's principal place of business will
be determined by the place of such entity's registration. All inquiries by any such
entity for sale of advertising space shall be referred to the designated Google
contact within three (3) business days of receipt by Distributor of such inquiry. 2.2 Distribution & Marketing of AdWords Program. Distributor agrees to market
and distribute AdWords Program to Advertisers in the designated Territory. within
the broad guidelines provided by Google, with its reasonable commercial expertise
and own sales force and customer service infrastructure. Distributor shall not
subcontract any of its functions or obligations under this Agreement to any third
parties. Distributor shall perform its obligations hereunder in a professional and
workmanlike manner consistent with reasonably applicable industry standards and
in accordance with this Agreement. Distributor will distribute AdWords Program
in accordance with the training provided by Google. Failure to do so would
constitute a material breach of this Agreement and shall be grounds for
termination under section 9 .3. 2.3 AdWords Program Sign Up Process. Distributor shall be responsible for
uploading all Advertiser information that is required by Google for participation
in the AdWords Program. 2.4 Licences; Approvals. Distributor shall be responsible for obtaining all licences
and permits and for satisfying all formalities as may be required to enter into this
Agreement and to perform its obligations in accordance with then-prevailing laws
and regulations, including without limitation those necessary to enable Distributor
to make payments to Google in US dollars. Distributor will promptly secure all
governmental approvals as may be required in the Territory or performance of its
obligations under this Agreement. 2.5 Compliance with United States and Other Applicable Law; Conduct of
Business. Distributor will comply with all United States and local laws and
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 16 of 43 regulations applicable to the distributor of the goods and services. including but
not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and US regulations of
international boycotts. Distributor shall (a) conduct business in a manner that
reflects favorably at all times on the AdWords Program and on Google's goodwill
and reputation, and (b) agrees to adhere to the minimum levels of service as
specified in Exhibit C. Breach of this Section 2 . 5 will constitute a material breach
of this Agreement. 2. 6 After-Sales Support. Distributor will provide after-sales services to
Advertisers in accordance with the broad instructions, training and standards of
Google. 3. Google Obligations. 3.1 Advertising Space. Google agrees to provide advertising space through the
AdWords Program for distribution by Distributor to Advertisers as set forth
herein. 3.2 Training. Google agrees to train Distributor. 3.3 Non-Exclusivity. This Agreement shall constitute a non-exclusive relationship
between Google and Distributor. 5.1 Information Provided by Google. Google will make available to Distributor
online information about Advertiser activity, on an aggregate and individual basis.
which information shall contain include (i) the total number of Keywords
purchased by Advertisers, (ii) the number of impressions of Advertisers'
advertisement delivered across the Google network, (iii) the number of clicks
delivered across the Google network for Advertisers' advertisement an (iv) the cost
of clicks delivered across the Google network for Advertisers' advertisement.
Distributor must set up AdWords Program advertising accounts in order to receive
such online information. Google reserves the right, but has no obligation, to send
reports about an Advertiser's activity directly to such Advertiser. If an Advertiser
makes a request to Distributor to receive a user name and password to access such
Advertisers individual AdWords Program account activity, Distributor' will grant
such request after approval from Google. ** ** **
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 17 of 43 6. Brand features. Each party shall own all right, title and interest, including
without limitation all Intellectual Property Rights, relating to its Brand Features.
Google grants to Distributor nonexclusive and non sub-licensable licence during
the Term to display Google Brand Features solely for the purpose of Distributor's
marketing and distribution of AdWords Program under the terms and subject to
the conditions set forth in this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Distributor will submit all materials of any kind containing the Brand Features) to
Google for written approval prior to release to the public. Furthermore,
Distributor agrees to adhere to Google's then-current Brand Features use
guidelines, and any content referenced or included therein, which may be found at
the following URL: http://www.google.comlpermissionslguidelines.html (or such
other URL that Google may provide from time to time) and to such other
guidelines or restrictions provided by Google in writing to Distributor in
connection herewith. Except as set forth in this Agreement, Distributor shall not
acquire any right, title or interest in or to the Google Brand Features. All use by
Google of Distributor Brand features (including any goodwill associated therewith
shall inure to the benefit of Distributor and all use by Distributor of Go ogle Brand
Features (including any goodwill associated therewith) shall inure to the benefit of
Google. No party shall challenge or assist others to challenge the Brand Features
of the other party (except to protect such party's rights with respect to its own
Brand Features) or the registration thereof by the other party, nor shall either
party attempt to register any Brand Features or domain names that are
confusingly similar to those of the other party. 7. Confidentiality; Limitation on Public Announcements. Disclosure of confidential
and/or proprietary information disclosed hereunder, including the User Data
(including any aggregated User Data), the existence and content of this
Agreement, and any information provided pursuant to this Agreement, shall be
governed by the Google Standard Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement (introductory
paragraph and Sections 1 through 12, inclusive), executed by the parties prior to
or concurrently with this Agreement (the "NDA ''), which is attached hereto as
Exhibit B, and which is incorporated by reference herein. Each party
acknowledges and agrees that it will obtain the other party's prior written
approval, which shall include approval of any proposed text, before making any
public announcements or communication, including, but not limited to, any press
releases, online publishing or direct mailings concerning or related to the
existence or terms of this Agreement. In addition. Distributor agrees to waive all
claims against and release Google (and its affiliates, partners and representatives)
from any claims or losses in connection with any above publications made by
Google. 8. User Data. Google owns all right, title, and interest in and to all information
and data, including the User Data collected by Google relating to Advertisers in
connection with the provision of the AdWords Program. Distributor shall maintain
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 18 of 43 all User Data in accordance with local law and regulation applicable to such data.
and shall implement policies and procedures with respect to the User Data that are
at least as protective of the rights of the Advertisers as is provided in the Google
Privacy Policy set forth at http://wwvv.qoogle.comlprivacy.html and all relevant
policies implied therein

 ** ** **

9.4 Effect of Termination. Upon any termination or expiration of this Agreement, (i) all rights and licences granted by one party to the other. including but not
limited to rights to use the other party's Brand Features shall cease immediately, (ii) each party shall promptly return to the other party, or destroy and certify the
destruction of all Confidential Information as defined in the NDA and Section 7 of
this Agreement) of the other party, and (iii) except for a termination pursuant to Section 9 .2 or Section 9 .3 above. Google will continue to serve advertisements as
provided in this Agreement up to the earlier date to occur of (x) the date that the
services provided by Google exhaust any amounts prepaid by Distributor, or (y)
the date that is thirty (30) days after expiration or termination of the Agreement.
Termination or expiration of this Agreement. in part or in whole. shall not limit
either party from pursuing other remedies available to it, nor shall Distributor be
relieved of its obligation to pay all charges that have accrued or are otherwise
owed under this Agreement. Termination of this Agreement does not prevent
Distributor from participating in the AdWords Program pursuant to the general
terms and conditions made publicly available by Google from time to time in its
sole discretion. Distributor shall be solely responsible for providing all customer services to
Advertisers. according to the procedures, and in compliance with standards,
provided by Google. All Advertisers shall be instructed by Distributor to contact
Distributor directly for support and not to communicate directly with Google. Distributor agrees that it shall provide at least the following minimum levels of
service: Business hours phone support to all Advertisers. E-mail queries from Advertisers shall be responded to within one (1) business day
with immediate resolution of any issues when possible. IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 19 of 43 Issues that cannot immediately be resolved by Distributor based on training and
procedures provided under the Agreement must be communicated promptly to
Google by Distributor and Google will assist Distributor in determining the best
solution. Google agrees that it shall provide at least the following minimum levels of service
to Distributor: 18. The standard agreement entered into between the assessee and the advertisers
is as under:- inladsladwordsterms. html
All terms contained in the Terms and Conditions are made a part of this SA
through incorporation by reference. The signatory of this Service Agreement
represents that she has read and agrees to such Terms and Conditions and the
terms of SA. There shall be no force or effect to any different or additional terms of
any related SA, purchase order or sales document. Google may decide at any lime, in its sole discretion, to change, suspend or
discontinue all or any aspect of its advertising programs, including their
availability, and shall notify Customer of material changes and discontinuauons.
Google shall have no liability for such decision. By signing below, Customer represents and warrants that all client information,
including but not limited to credit card information and invoicing information,
provided herein is complete and accurate and that no additional information is
necessary for payment of Google invoices. Customer's campaign(s) may go live upon posting. at which time Google shall send
Customer an email notifying customer it has 72 hours to modify Customers
campaign keywords and settings as posted. During those 72 hours, Google is only
liable to Customer for keywords or settings discrepancies if Customer can certify
to Google by its contemporaneous documental (evidence that Google posted
keywords or settings other than those requested by Customer.
The account (as modified by Customer, or if unmodified, as initially posted) will be
deemed approved by Customer 72 hours after it initially posts.
Terms of Payment. If Google, at any time, deems itself insecure with respect to
Customer's ability to meet its financial obligations under this SA, Google shall
have the right to require pre-payment of the total amount due for the SA in
advance of the Target Start Date or as otherwise requested by Google. Customer
must remit all payments under this SA to Google by the due date indicated on the
Invoice(s). In the event of nonpayment, Google reserves the right to immediately
terminate this SA upon written notice to Customer and immediately suspend the
entire Customer account. Late payments are subject to interest payments as set
forth in the Terms and Conditions. Methods of Billing: Customer signature
Name
Title
Company
Google Signature
Name
Title
Company." 19. The Standard Google India Private Limited Advertising Program Terms are as
under: services and landing pages which Creative links or directs viewers to, and
advertised services and products (collectively "Services"). Customer shall protect
any Customer passwords and takes full responsibility for Customer's own, and
third party, use of any Customer accounts. Ads may be placed on (y) any content
or property provided by Google ("Google Property"), and unless opted-out by
Customer (z) any other content or property provided by a third party ( "Partner")
upon which Google places ads ("Partner Property"). With respect to Adwords
online auction-based advertising, Google may send Customer an email notifying
Customer it has 72 hours ("Modification Period") to modify keywords and settings
as posted. The account (as modified by Customer otherwise as initially posted) is
deemed approved by Customer after the Modification Period, and Google is only
liable to Customer for discrepancies if Customer can certify by contemporaneous
documentary evidence that Google posted ads not approved by Customer. With
respect to all other advertising, Customer must provide Google with all relevant
Creative by the due date set forth in that advertising Program's applicable FAQ or
as otherwise communicated by Google. Customer grants Google permission to
utilize an automated software program to retrieve and analyze websites associated
with the Services for ad quality and serving purposes, unless Customer specifically
opts out of the evaluation in a manner specified by Google. Google or Partners
may reject or remove any ad or Target any time for any or no reason. Google may
modify the Program or these Terms at any time without liability and your use of
the Program after notice that Terms have changed indicates acceptance of the
Terms. IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 25 of 43 3. Cancellation. Customer may independently cancel advertising itself online
through Customer's account. if any, or, if such online cancellation functionality is
not available, with prior written notice to Google, including electronic mail.
AdWords online auction-based advertising cancelled online will cease serving
upon cancellation. All other advertising may be subject to Google's ability to re-
schedule reserved inventory or cancel advertisements already in production.
Cancelled advertisements may be published despite cancellation if cancellation of
those ads occurs after any applicable commitment date as set forth in advance by
the Partner or Google in which case Customer must pay for those ads. Google may
cancel immediately any 10, any of its advertising Programs, or these Terms at any
time with notice, in which case Customer will be responsible for any ads already
run. Google may modify any of its advertising Programs at any time without
liability. Sections I, 2, 3,5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 will survive any expiration or termination
of this Agreement. 4. Prohibited Uses; License Grant; Representations and Warranties. Customer
shall not, and shall not authorize any party to: (a) generate automated, fraudulent
or otherwise invalid impressions, inquiries, conversions, clicks or other actions; (b) use any automated means or form of scraping or data extraction to access,
query or otherwise collect Google advertising related information from any
Adwords website or property except as expressly permitted by Google; or (c)
advertise anything illegal or engage in any illegal or fraudulent business practice.
Customer represents and warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google and
Partners all rights (including without limitation any copyright, trademark, patent.
publicity or other rights) in Creative. Services and Targets needed for Google and
Partner to operate Google's advertising programs for Customer (including without
limitation any rights needed to host, cache, route, transmit, store, copy, modify,
distribute, perform. display, reformat. excerpt, analyze, and create algorithms from
and derivative works of Creative or Targets) in connection with this Agreement
("Use"). Customer represents and warrants that LV) all Customer information is
complete, correct and current; and (z) any Use hereunder and Customer's
Creative, Targets, and Customer's Services will not violate or encourage violation
of any applicable laws, regulations, code of conduct, or third party rights
(including, without limitation, intellectual property rights). Violation of the
foregoing may result in immediate termination of this Agreement or customer's
account without notice and may subject Customer to legal penalties and
consequences. 5. Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability. To the fullest extent permitted by law.
GOOGLE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION FOR NON-INFRINGEMENT,
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR ANY
PURPOSE. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Google disclaims all guarantees
regarding positioning or the levels or timing of (i) costs per click, (ii) click through
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 26 of 43 rates, (iii) availability and delivery of any impressions, Creative, or Targets on any
Partner Property, Google Property, or section thereof, (iv) clicks (v) conversions
or other results for any ads or Targets (vi) the accuracy of Partner data (e.g.
reach, size of audience, demographics or other purported characteristics of
audience), and (vii) the adjacency or placement of advertisements within a
Program. EXCEPT FOR indemnification AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THIRD
PARTIES HEREUNDER AND CUSTOMER'S BREACHES OF SECTION 1, to the
fullest extent permitted by law: (a) NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, OR PUNITIVE
DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSS OF PROFITS,
REVENUE, INTEREST, GOODWILL, LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA OR
FOR ANY LOSS OR INTERRUPTION TO CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS) WHETHER
IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR ANY OTHER LEGAL
THEORY, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES
AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
LIMITED REMEDY; AND (b) EACH PARTY'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO THE
OTHER IS LIMITED TO AMOUNTS PAID OR PAYABLE TO GOOGLE BY
CUSTOMER FOR THE AD GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. Except for payment
obligations, neither party is liable for failure or delay resulting from a condition
beyond the reasonable control of the party, including but not limited to acts of
God, government, terrorism, natural disaster, labor conditions and power failures. 6. Agency. Customer represents and warrants that (a) it is authorized to act on
behalf of and has bound to this Agreement any third party for which Customer
advertises (a "Principal'') (b) as between Principals and Customer, the Principal
owns any rights to Program information in connection with those advertisements,
and (c) Customer shall not disclose Principal's Program information to any other
party without Principal's consent. 7. Payment Customer shall be responsible for all charges up to the amount of each
10, or as set in an online account, and shall pay all charges in Indian Rupees or in
such other currency as agreed to in writing by the parties. Unless agreed to by the
parties in writing, Customer shall pay all charges in accordance with the
applicable 10 or Program FAQ. Late payments bear interest at the rate of 1.5%
per month (or the highest rate permitted by law, if less). Charges are exclusive of
taxes, cesses or other applicable levies. Customer is responsible for paying (y) all
applicable taxes, cesses and levies, government charges, and (z) reasonable
expenses and attorneys fees Google incurs collecting late amounts. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, Customer waives all claims relating to charges unless
claimed within 60 days after the charge (this does not affect Customer's credit card
issuer rights). Charges are solely based on Google's measurements for the
applicable Program, unless otherwise agreed in writing. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, refunds (if any) are at the discretion of Google and only in the
form of advertising credit for only Google Properties. Nothing in these Terms or
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 27 of 43 an 10 may obligate Google to extend credit to any party. Customer acknowledges
and agrees that any credit card and related billing and payment information that
Customer provides to Google may be shared by Google with companies who work
on Google's behalf, such as payment processors and/or credit agencies, solely for
the purposes of checking credit, effecting payment to Google and servicing
Customer's account. Google may also provide information in response to valid
legal process, such as subpoenas, search warrants and court orders, or to
establish or exercise its legal rights or defend against legal claims. Google shall
not be liable for any use or disclosure of such information by such third parties. 8. Indemnification. Customer shall indemnify without limit and defend Google, its
Partners, agents, affiliates, and licensors from any third party claim or liability
(collectively, "Liabilities"), arising out of Use, Customer's Program use, Targets,
Creative and Services and breach of the Agreement. Partners shall be deemed
third party beneficiaries of the above Partner indemnity. Without limitation to the
generality of the foregoing, Customer shall indemnify Google against any
Liabilities or losses arising out of any claim based on any act or allegation of
infringement of intellectual property, misrepresentation or defamation. 9. Arbitration. The parties agree that they will try in good faith to settle within
thirty (30) days any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of relating to or in
connection with this Agreement ("Dispute''). If the Dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days after such Dispute arose, such Dispute must be referred to and
finally resolved by arbitration, to which the Parties hereto expressly agree and
submit. The arbitration will be submitted to the International Centre for Dispute
Resolution of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") and conducted in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the AAA in force as of the
date of this Agreement ("Rules''). Pre-hearing information exchange shall be
limited to the reasonable production of relevant, non-privileged documents and
carried out expeditiously. There will be one arbitrator selected by mutual
agreement of the Parties. The arbitrator will not act as amiable compositeur or ex
aequo et bono. It is the intent of the parties that, barring extraordinary
circumstances, arbitration proceedings will be concluded within 60 days from the
date the arbitrator is appointed. The arbitrator may extend this time limit in the
interests of justice. Failure to adhere to this time limit shall not constitute a basis
for challenging the award. The arbitration will be conducted in English and the
place of arbitration will be Bangalore, India. Either party may, without waiving
any remedy under this Agreement, apply to the arbitrator and/or any court having
jurisdiction any interim, provisional, injunctive or conservatory relief that is
necessary to protect the rights or property of that party until the arbitration award
is rendered or the Dispute is otherwise resolved. Any decision rendered by the
arbitrator will be final and binding on the parties, and judgment thereon may be
entered by any court of competent jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, any
court that has jurisdiction over either of the parties or any of their assets. The
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 28 of 43 parties expressly agree that the arbitrator will be empowered to award and order
equitable or injunctive relief with respect to matters brought before him, provided
however, that such remedy or relief is consistent with the remedies and limitations
set forth in this Agreement. The parties agree that all arbitral proceedings
conducted pursuant to this Section, including the existence of any arbitral
proceedings, information disclosed in the course of such arbitral proceedings, and
any settlements, negotiations, discussions, proposals, and awards related thereto
shall be considered confidential information and shall not be disclosed to third
parties except as required by law or otherwise provided herein. The parties may,
however, disclose such information to an appropriate court, as is necessary to seek
enforcement of any award rendered by the arbitrator or to seek any interim,
provisional, injunctive or conservatory relief pursuant to the terms hereof 10. Miscellaneous. The Agreement must be construed as if both parties jointly
wrote it, governed by Indian law. The Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and
replaces any other applicable agreements, terms and conditions applicable to the
subject matter hereof Any conflicting or additional terms contained in additional
documents (e.g. reference to a purchase order number) or oral discussions are
void. Each party shall not disclose the terms or conditions of these Terms to any
third party, except to its professional advisors under a strict duty of confidentiality
or as necessary to comply with a government law, rule or regulation. Customer
may grant approvals, permissions, extensions and consents by email, but any
modifications by Customer to the Agreement must be made in a writing executed
by both parties. Any notices to Google must be sent to Google India Pvt. Ltd., No.
3, RMZ Infinity - Tower E, Old Madras Road, 4th Floor, Bangalore, 560016, India
with a copy to Legal Department, via confirmed facsimile, with a copy sent via first
class or air mail or overnight courier, and are deemed given upon receipt. Notice
to Customer may be effected by sending email to the email address specified in
Customer's account, or by posting a message to Customer's account interface, and
is deemed received when sent (for email) or no more than 15 days after having
been posted (for messages in Customer's account interface). A waiver of any
default is not a waiver of any subsequent default. Unenforceable provisions will be
modified 10 reflect the parties' intention and only to the extent necessary to make
them enforceable, and remaining provisions of the Agreement will remain in full
effect. Customer may not assign any of its rights hereunder and any such attempt is
void. Google and Customer and Google and Partners are not legal partners or
agents, but are independent contractors. In the event that these Terms or an
Advertising Program expire or is terminated, Google shall not be obligated to
return any materials to Customer. 11. Term: Unless terminated earlier under the terms of this Agreement This
Agreement shall have a term of 1 year from the latest of the signature dates below.
Customer acknowledges and agrees that if this Agreement expires or is terminated
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 29 of 43 any Customer campaigns in effect as of the date of such expiration or termination
or any new campaigns commenced after such expiration or termination shall run
thereafter subject to Google's then standard terms and conditions for the
Program." 20. Under the Distribution Agreement, the assessee acted as a distributor of online
advertisement space to Indian Advertisers. The assessee was ensured a specified
margin over its cost from GIL. If in case, the revenue recorded by the assessee
from the sale of online advertisement space to Indian Advertisers was less than its
cost (incurred in connection with its distribution function) plus the specified
margin, GIL was required to compensate the assessee for the difference. However,
where the revenue recorded by the assessee from the onward sale of online
advertisement space to Indian Advertisers was more than the cost plus the
specified margin of the assessee, the assessee was required to make the payment to
GIL. 21. In the present case, it is not in dispute that the DTAA between India - Ireland is
applicable in respect of the payments made by the assessee to GoogleIreland. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence (P) Ltd v
CIT (supra) at para 108 of its judgment held as under:- 22. Thus, the definition of the term "royalty" in Article 12(3) of the India - Ireland
DT AA override the definition of "royalty" as provided in Explanation 2 to section
9(l)(vi) of the Act by virtue of section 90(2) . Therefore, the definition of the term
"royalty" under the India - Ireland DTAA being more beneficial to the assessee
must only be considered in these appeals. The findings of the AO and CIT(A) as
regards the characterisation of the payments to GoogleIreland as 'Royalty' under
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 30 of 43 section 9(l)(vi) of the Act is therefore not relevant and consequently correctness of
these findings need not be adjudicated in these appeals. Similarly, we do not think
it is necessary to decide whether the services agreement and distribution
agreement are interlinked or complementary to each other. ITES services are
enabling the overall business and not directly related to generating revenue from
Adword Program in India. Revenue is generated by end customers clicking on link
and not because of ITES services. Even if it is interlinked, the internal
tools/intangibles/software of GoogleIreland are admittedly not transferred to
assessee. The assessee has only right to use these for rendering ITES services.
Applying ratio of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis
Centre of Excellence Private Limited (supra), this cannot result in royalty. We
proceed to examine whether the definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12 of India-
Ireland DT AA is satisfied in the present case considering the distribution
agreement, services agreement and the facts on record. 23. The definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12(3)(a) of India - Ireland DTAA is as
under:- 24. The first limb of the above definition treats consideration for the use of or the
right to use any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including
cinematograph film or films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting as
royalty. The computerised advertising program i.e., "Google AdWords Program" 25. The Supreme Court made a reference to the relevant provisions of the Copyright Act and on the interpretation of the same, it accepted the difference
between a copyright right and copyrighted article. The important observations of
the Supreme Court are summarized as follows:- only under the Income-tax Act on the footing that none of
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 32 of 43 the DT AAs apply to the facts of these cases, the definition
of royalty that is contained in explanation 2 to section
9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act would make it clear that
there has to be a transfer of "all or any rights" which
includes the grant of a licence in respect of any copyright
in a literary work. The expression "including the
granting of a licence" in clause (v) of explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act, would necessarily
mean a licence in which transfer is made of an interest in
rights "in respect of' copyright, namely, that there is a
parting with an interest in any of the rights mentioned in section 14(b) read with section 14(a) of the Copyright Act.
To this extent, there will be no difference between the
position under the DTAA and Explanation 2 to section
9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act. ** ** **

........97. When, under a non-exclusive licence, an end-
user gets the right to use computer software in the form
of a CD, the end-user only receives a right to use the
software and nothing more. The end-user does not get
any of the rights that the owner continues to retain under section 14(b) of the Copyright Act read with sub-section (a)(i)-(vii) thereof Thus, the conclusion that when
computer software is licensed for use under an EULA,
what is also licensed is the right to use the copyright
embedded therein, is wholly incorrect. The licence for the
use of a product under an EULA cannot be construed as
the licence spoken of in section 30 of the Copyright Act, as
such EULA only imposes restrictive conditions upon the
end-user and does not part with any interest relatable to
any rights mentioned in sections 14(a) and 14(b) of the
Copyright Act. ** ** ** 100. Also, any ruling on the more expansive language
contained in the explanations to section 9(1)(vi) of the
Income-tax Act would have to be ignored if it is wider
and less beneficial to the assessee than the definition
contained in the DTAA, as per section 90(2) of the
Income-tax Act read with explanation 4 thereof and Article 3(2) of the DTAA. Further, the expression
"copyright" has to be understood in the context of the
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 33 of 43 statute which deals with it, it being accepted that
municipal laws which apply in the Contracting States
must be applied unless there is any repugnancy to the
terms of the DTAA. For all these reasons, the
determination of the AAR in Citrix Systems Asia Pacific
Pty. Ltd (supra) does not state the law correctly and is
thus set aside. ** ** ** 108. Fourthly, the High Court is not correct in referring
to section 9(l)(vi) of the Income-tax Act after considering
it in the manner that it has and then applying it to
interpret the provisions under the Convention between
the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of Ireland for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and for the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income And Capital Gains. ["India- Ireland DTAA'']. Article 12 of the aforesaid treaty
defining "royalties" would alone be relevant to determine
taxability under the DTAA, as it is more beneficial to the
assessee as compared to section 9(l)(vi) of the Income-tax
Act, as construed by the High Court. Here again, section
90(2) of the Income-tax Act, read with explanation 4
thereof has not been properly appreciated

 ** ** ** 117. The conclusions that can be derived on a reading of
the aforesaid judgments are as follows: IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 34 of 43 (iii) Parting with copyright entails parting with the
 right to do any of the acts mentioned in section 14 of the
 Copyright Act. The transfer of the material substance
 does not, of itself, serve to transfer the copyright therein.
 The transfer of the ownership of the physical substance,
 in which copyright subsists, gives the purchaser the right
 to do with it whatever he pleases, except the right to
 reproduce the same and issue it to the public, unless such
 copies are already in circulation, and the other acts
 mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright Act. (iv) A licence from a copyright owner, conferring
 no proprietary interest on the licensee, does not entail
 parting with any copyright, and is different from a
 licence issued under section 30 of the Copyright Act,
 which is a licence which grants the licensee an interest in
 the rights mentioned in section 14(a) and 14(b) of the
 Copyright Act. Where the core of a transaction is to
 authorize the end-user to have access to and make use of
 the "licensed" computer software product over which the
 licensee has no exclusive rights, no copyright is parted
 with and consequently, no infringement takes place, as is
 recognized by section 52(l)(aa) of the Copyright Act. It
 makes no difference whether the end-user is enabled to
 use computer software that is customised to its
 specifications or otherwise. (v) A non-exclusive, non-transferable licence, merely
 enabling the use of a copyright product, is in the nature
 of restrictive conditions which are ancillary to such use,
 and cannot be construed as a licence to enjoy all or any
 of the enumerated rights mentioned in section 14 of the
 Copyright Act. or create any interest in any such rights
 so as to attract section 30 of the Copyright Act. (vi) The right to reproduce and the right to use
 computer software are distinct and separate rights, as
 has been recognized in State Bank of India (supra) (see
 paragraph 21), former amounting to parting with
 copyright and the latter, in the context of no exclusive
 EULAs, not being so." 26. Having considered the above principles in the context of copyright royalty, we
proceed to examine the applicability of the above principles to the facts of the
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 35 of 43 present case particularly with reference to distribution agreement, services
agreement and other facts on record. As per para 2.1 of the distribution
agreement, assessee is appointed as a non exclusive authorised distributor of
Google Adwords program to Advertisers. Para 2.2 of the agreement states that the
distributor agrees to market and distribute Adwords program to advertisers within
the broad guidelines provided by Google with its reasonable commercial expertise
and own sales force and customer service infrastructure. It also provides that the
Distributor will distribute the AdWords program in accordance with the training
provided by Google. As per para 2.3, distributor shall be responsible for uploading
all Advertiser information that is required by Google for participation in the
Adwords Program. As per para 2.6, distributor will provide after sales services to
Advertisers in accordance with the broad instructions, training and standards of
Google. The advertising space is provided by GIL through the Adwords program
and GIL also agreed to train the distributor. It is specifically agreed that the
agreement shall constitute a non exclusive relationship between GoogleIreland
and distributor. GoogleIreland owns all right, title and interest in and to all
information and data including the user data collected by it in connection with the
provision of the Adwords Program. 27. As per the service level agreement - Exhibit C to distribution agreement,
assessee distributor shall be solely responsible for providing all customer services
to Advertisers, according to the procedures, and in compliance with standards,
provided by Google. All Advertisers shall be instructed by Distributor to contact
Distributor directly for support, and not to communicate directly with
GoogleIreland. Distributor agrees that it shall provide minimum levels of service
like Business hours phone support to all Advertisers, E-mail queries from
Advertisers shall be responded to within one (l) business day with immediate
resolution of any issues when possible. It was decided that the issues that cannot
immediately be resolved by Distributor based on training and procedures provided
under the Agreement must be communicated promptly to GoogleIreland by
Distributor/assessee, and GoogleIreland will assist assessee/Distributor in
determining the best solution. It was also agreed that the distributor agrees that
GoogleIreland will have the right, to review samples of communications sent to
Advertisers to assess the quality of responses and modify communications
accordingly. GoogleIreland shall also have the right to send questionnaires to
Distributor's customers to ensure that Distributor is providing an adequate level of
service. 28. As per the standard Advertising program terms, the advertiser is solely
responsible for all ad targeting options, keywords and all ad content. The
advertiser represents and warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google and
Partners all rights (including without limitation any copyright, trademark, patent,
publicity or other rights) in Creative, Services and Targets needed for Google and
Partner to operate Google's advertising programs for Customer (including without
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 36 of 43 limitation any rights needed to host, cache, route, transmit, store, copy, modify,
distribute, perform, display, reformat, excerpt, analyze, and create algorithms from
and derivative works of Creative or Targets) in connection with this Agreement
("Use"). The advertiser represents and warrants that (y) all Customer information
is complete, correct and current; and (z) any Use hereunder and Customer's
Creative, Targets, and Customer's Services will not violate or encourage violation
of any applicable laws, regulations, code of conduct, or third party rights
(including, without limitation, intellectual property rights). Violation of the
foregoing may result in immediate termination of this Agreement or customer's
account without notice and may subject Customer to legal penalties and
consequences. 29. As per the services agreement, the assessee was providing information and
information technology enabled services to GoogleIreland. As regards ownership
of intellectual property and ownership of derivate works, it was agreed that all
intellectual property shall remain the exclusive property of GoogleIreland. The
confidential information provided by GoogleIreland was to be employed by the
assessee in performance of its services under the agreement and it shall remain the
sole property of the GoogleIreland. The statements recorded from the employees
also confirms that the confidential information, software technology and the
training documents for providing services under the services agreement are
provided by GoogleIreland to the assessee. 30. On a consideration of all the above agreements and the facts on record, we
find that none of the rights as per section 14(a) /(b) and section 30 of the Copyright
Act, 1957 have been transferred by GoogleIreland to the assessee in the present
case. As held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Engineering Analysis
Centre of Excellence Private Limited v. CIT & Anr. (supra), mere use of or right to
use a computer program without any transfer of underlying copyright in it as per section 14(a) /(b) or section 30 of the Copyright Act, 1957 will not be satisfying the
definition of Royalty under the Act/DTAA. Similarly, use of confidential
information, software technology, training documents and others are all 'literary
work' with copyrights in it owned by the foreign entity and there was no transfer or
license of copyrights in favour of the assessee company. Hence, the impugned
payments cannot be characterised as 'Royalty' under the DTAA. 31. The lower authorities have held that the assessee has been granted the use of
or right to use trademarks, other brand features and the process owned by
GoogleIreland for the purpose of distribution of Adwords program and
consequently the sums payable to GoogleIreland are royalty. As per Article 12 of
India -Ireland DTAA, consideration for the use of or right to use any patent, trade
mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process is regarded as royalty. In
the present case, as per the distribution agreement, "Google Brand Features" 32. As regards the applicability of 'use of or right to use industrial, commercial or
scientific equipment" the CIT(A) held that the assessee cannot be said to have
gained right to use any scientific equipment, since, GoogleIreland has not parted
with the copyright it holds in the Adwords program and hence it cannot be said
that any kind of technical knowhow has been transferred to the assessee company.
The CIT(A) was not in agreement with the AO on the above issue without prejudice
to his view in holding that the remitted amount is royalty on different grounds. The
revenue has not challenged the said finding of CIT(A). Hence, the impugned
payments cannot be regarded as made for 'use of or right to use industrial,
commercial or scientific equipment'. The remaining portion of definition of
'Royalty' under the India - Ireland DT AA is consideration for information
concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience. The AO has not
characterised the impugned payments as a consideration for the above. In any
case, CIT(A) has given a finding that it cannot be said that any kind of technical
knowhow has been transferred to the assessee company. This has not been
challenged by the revenue. 33. Thus on an overall analysis of the entire facts on record, we hold that the
impugned payments cannot be regarded as royalty under the India - Ireland
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 38 of 43 DTAA. It is true that the Google Adword program was commercially and
profitably exploited in a commercial sense and profitable manner in India to
generate revenues from Indian customers or advertisers. This is the business or
commercial aspect of the transaction. However, the stand of the lower authorities
that the impugned payments are in the nature of Royalty cannot be upheld
especially under Article 12 of the India - Ireland DTAA merely because the
marketing, distribution and ITES activities are carried out in India and revenues
are generated from India or from Indian Advertisers. As held by the Supreme
Court in the case of UOI v. Azadi Bachao Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706, at page
763: 34. Before concluding, it is to be mentioned that the taxability with respect to
payments made for purchase of online advertisement has been decided by the
following Co-ordinate Bench orders of the I.T.Act:- The AO as well as CIT(A) held such payments to be royalty and in that manner,
disallowed the expenditure in the hands of Yahoo India under section 40(a) of the
Act. The Tribunal, in second appeal, held that banner advertisement hosting
services did not involve use or right to use any industrial, commercial, or scientific
equipment and no such use was granted by Yahoo Hong Kong. In that manner, the
Tribunal set aside the findings of the AO and CIT(A), wherein the subject payments
were characterised as royalty. (ii) Pinstorm (supra): Pinstorm was engaged in buying online advertisement
space for onward re-sale to an advertiser, much like GIPL in the present case. For
such purpose, Pinstorm made payments to GIL, which were disallowed by the AO
and CIT(A) under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, on the premise that the said payments
were taxable in India. While the AO held the said payments to be fees for technical
services ("FTS"), the CIT(A) held them to be royalty. The Tribunal relied on the
decision in Yahoo (supra) to delete the disallowance. It was also observed by the
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 39 of 43 Tribunal that the said payments were business profits, which were not taxable in
India, since GIL did not have a PE in India. (iii) Right Florists (supra): Right Florist was a florist who used Google Search
Engine for online advertising, to generate more business for itself. In this case
again, the AO had disallowed the payments made by Right Florist for online
advertising under section 40(a)(i) of the Act. However, the CIT(A) reversed the
said decision on the ground that none of the recipients of the payments had a PE in
India. The Tribunal, in Department's appeal, upheld the order of the CIT(A), while
observing that the decisions in Yahoo (supra) and Pinstorm (supra) were
authorities in support of the proposition that payment by the Indian arm of a
foreign owner of search engine portal, in connection with online advertising, is not
in the nature of royalty as per section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. In this decision, the
Tribunal also discussed the modalities involved in the online advertising business,
in the context of Google Search Engine. (iv) Inception Business (supra): In this case the assessee was engaged in the
business of brand management as well as posting advertisements in the social
portal on behalf of their clients. The AO held the payments made by it for that
purpose to Facebook IrelandLtd., a nonresident, to be taxable in India. The CIT(A)
upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo (supra),
Pinstorm (supra), Right Florists (supra), while setting aside the order of the AO/
CIT(A) and holding that the payments for purchase of online advertisement space
were not taxable in India. (v) Urban Ladder (supra): The assessee in this case, made payments to
Facebook IrelandLtd., for online advertising. The AO held the said payments to be
royalty. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. However, while doing so, the
CIT(A) relied upon certain functional aspects of advertisement system qua Patent
Number US20040059708A1 as well as US7778872B2. These two patents are held
by Google LLC., USA in connection with the Google AdWords Program hereto. The Tribunal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while following the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis (supra). The Hon'ble Tribunal
also relied on the decisions in Yahoo (supra), Pinstorm (supra) and Right Florists
(supra). (vi) Myntra Designs (supra): Myntra in this case, made payments to Facebook
IrelandLtd., for online advertising. The AO held the said payments to be royalty
and in the alternate, as FTS. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal
followed the decision in Urban Ladder (supra), while setting aside the order of the
CIT(A). (vii) Play Games (supra): Play games is engaged in the business of providing a
platform for online gaming. It had made payments to Facebook IrelandLtd. for
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 40 of 43 online advertising. The AO and CIT(A) in this case as well, held that payments to
be taxable in India. The Hon'ble Tribunal observed that Play Games did not get
any right to modify/deal with the servers, which belonged to Facebook IrelandLtd.,
in any manner. It was also observed inter alia that the said servers, which hosted
online advertisements, were located outside India and that Facebook IrelandLtd.
did not have a PE in India. In that manner, the Tribunal set aside the order of the
CIT(A) and held the payments in question to be neither royalty, nor FTS. (viii) Matrimony.com (supra): Matrimony.com in this case, made payments to
Facebook IrelandLtd. for online advertising. The AO in this case as well,
disallowed the said payments under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, which action was
upheld by the CIT(A). The Tribunal followed the decision in Urban Ladder
(supra), while deleting the said disallowance. (ix) ESPN Digital Media (supra): ESPN India in this case, entered into a re-
seller agreement with ESPN UK, for the resale of online advertisement space. In
terms thereof, ESPN India purchased online advertisement space for re-sale to
Indian advertisers. For this purchase, it made payments to ESPN UK, which were
characterised as royalty by the AO. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The
Tribunal, in second appeal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while observing that
ESPN India was merely making payment under the re-seller agreement towards
purchase of online advertisement space. It was also observed that a website is not
a tangible property and is certainly not a high-tech equipment. It was also
observed that the reliance of the AO and CIT(A) on the decision in Verizon
Communications Singapore Pte Ltd. v. ITO , (2014) 361 ITR 575 (Madras High
Court) was misplaced, since the same had been overruled by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the decision in Engineering Analysis (supra). (x) Interactive Avenues (supra): Interactive Avenues is an internet advertising
agency, which places online advertisements on behalf of its clients. The payments
in this case were made to Facebook IrelandLtd., which were disallowed by the AO
and the CIT(A). The Tribunal observed that Interactive Avenues was utilising
Google Search Engine amongst others, to buy online advertisement space on
behalf of its clients. Be that as it may, the Tribunal set aside the order of the
CIT(A) and held that the payments in question could not be characterised as
royalty, while relying on the decisions in Urban Ladder (supra) and Play Games
(supra). 35. It is also relevant to point out that in the context of interpreting Article 12(3) of India - Ireland DTAA, it is relevant to take note of the existing international
jurisprudence. The Technical Advisory Group ("TAG") set up by the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), in its Report (2001) on
treaty characterisation of electronic commerce payments analysed various e-
commerce transactions and suggested suitable characterisation for consideration
 IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 41 of 43 flowing thereunder. One of the transactions analysed by TAG was advertising. In
the context of online advertisements, including advertisements where the payment
is based on number of clicks (i.e., CPC basis), TAG recommended taxability of
such payments under Article 7 of the relevant DTAA. The said Article 7 deals with
"business profits" and not royalty. Business profits under Article 7 are taxable only
where the nonresident has a PE in India. 36. It is important to note that TAG was set up by OECD and its recommendation
on changes to the OECD commentary were accepted by OECD. As per the recent
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis , (supra), OECD
commentary is a necessary aid for the interpretation of provisions contained in
DTAA. In fact, the High-Powered Committee ("HPC") on electronic commerce and
taxation, set up by the Central Board of Direct Taxes ("CBDT") had also accepted
the view taken by TAG and recommended taxing consideration flowing for online
advertisement under Article 7 , and not Article 12 of the relevant DTAA. 37. Therefore, in terms of the international guidance as stated herein, the position
regarding taxability of receipts from sale of online advertisement space is clear.
Unless the non-resident, who is engaged in sale of online advertisement space, has
a PE in India, no portion of receipts earned by it from sale of online advertisement
space in India can be brought to tax in India as Act read with the relevant DTAA. 38. The above view is also supported by insertion of provisions related to
Equalisation Levy (EL) by Finance Act, 2016 . The root for the emergence of the
EL can be traced to the dynamic business models that have the ability to transcend
the link between an income producing activity and a specific location since these
business are carried in the cyber place. The PE definition presently is based upon
the physical presence criteria. The new business models also created challenges in
characterizing the nature of payment - whether the payment is for services or for
any IPR and hence royalty or whether it represents pure business profits. Various
ITAT decisions, as discussed above, have held that income from sale of
advertisement space on a website is not taxable in India if there is no PE of the
foreign enterprise in India. It was held that such income is not to be regarded as
royalty or FTS. Such tax challenges is addressed by the introduction of EL. Section
165 of the Finance Act, 2016 provides for charge of EL at 6% on consideration for
specified services. Section 164(i) of Finance Act, 2016 provides that "specified
service" means online advertisement, any provision for digital advertising space or
any other facility or service for the purpose of online advertisement and includes
any other service as may be notified by the Central Government in this behalf.
Thus, online advertisement is now covered under EL. If online advertisement was
already covered under definition of royalty, then bringing it as part of EL scheme
would not arise. IT(IT)A Nos.191 to 194/Bang/2024 Page 42 of 43 39. In view of the aforesaid discussion and the judicial pronouncements, cited
supra, we hold that the impugned payment cannot be characterized as royalty
under the India-Ireland DTAA. It is ordered accordingly. 40. In the result, the appeals filed by the assessee are allowed." 9. In view of above order of Tribunal, where it is stated that the payment
made by GIPL to GIL is not in the nature of Royalty or FTS under the Act
and DTAA, a different treatment cannot taken in the hands of the payee, i.e.
the assessee in the instant case. The contentions raised in the written
submission of the learned D.R. has been addressed by the Tribunal in the
payer's case i.e.GIPL (supra). Hence, we are not dealing with the same in
this order. Therefore, we hold that a sum of Rs. 42,57,53,347/- cannot be
brought to tax in the hands of the assessee." 10. Following the above orders, we hold that the payments made by
GIL to the assessee cannot be taxed in the hands of the assessee. The
grounds by the assessee in this regard are allowed. 11. In view of our above decision on merits, the jurisdictional
grounds No.2 to 4 are left open. Ground No.1 is general in nature.
Ground Nos. 20 & 21 are consequential requiring no adjudication. 12. In the result, the appeals of the assessee are partly allowed. Pronounced in the open court on this 26th day of March, 2024.