SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Received a fake bank call
DATE: 2018-08-13
SCORE: 15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/96xpwi/received_a_fake_bank_call/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just about half an hour ago, an older relative of mine got a call from a "customer care representative" of a bank, he said he's from SBI, later.

These kind of scam calls are not a big deal for us, younger generation. But what worried me, was that my relative is old and luckily she was in our house when she got the call. She started talking and gave her name and stuff. I didn't know who she was talking to.

I figured out it's a bank related call when she started talking about her account and then when she took out her ATM from inside her purse, I literally grabbed the phone from her hand and mimed to her that it's probably a scam call.

Then she handed the phone to me, I started asking him details about himself, which bank, he gave the answer, which branch : he ignored the question and said the account has to be closed as my relative's husband had died last year in December.
 
Now this detail, kinda shocked me. Still I said I will talk to the bank personally and he continued that the bank account will be closed as the acc holder has died and all the money will be lost. What bullshit, I thought.

I said do whatever you want. We'll deal with it later. He said something back but hung up by then. He didn't call back after that probably because he sensed that I knew he was lying. 

He said he's calling from my relative's horn branch which is in Raipur and later I checked his number was from Bihar. 

Now, all of this didn't scare me that much but what did was the possibility that if my relative wasn't in our house then she would have given the details easily because she was almost sweating by the pressure that this guy created by saying the account will be closed, give the details fast and all that.

I mean we guys can easily tell it's a fake call, but not my old aunt. And I worry what should we do to prevent the older ones to fall for this scam? And I was surprised about how he got the month of death of her husband right?

Installed truecaller in her phone, though it did say the name he told us, but the location was Bihar instead of home branch's location. Told her never to give out any details on phone to any such "bank" callers. 

Is there anything else I could have done? And what to do to make all my older relatives aware of these scams?

Edit: TLDR : Relative got a fake call from bank, I talked to the guy and told my relative it's fake. But I'm worried about how many old people fall for this scam. Asking of ways to prevent it.