Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Further discussion on the resolution moved by Shri C.N. Jayadevan on 11th December, 2014 regarding disapproval of Coal mines (special Provision) ordinance and Coal Mines (Special Provision) Bill. (Motion adopted and Bill passed) 

HON. SPEAKER: Now the House will take up Items 12 and 13.    जीरो-आवर आप शाम को ले लेना, अभी जीरो-आवर नहीं होगा, so, we will go to Items 12 and13—Shri Jyotiraditya Scindia. 1217 hours 

 

SHRI JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA ( GUNA ): Madam Speaker, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Bill, 2014 that has been introduced. Madam Speaker, the Supreme Court had, on 24th September of this year, quashed the mining licences of 204 captive coal blocks with the proclamation that they had been illegally and arbitrarily allotted over the last two decades by successive Governments. Now the power for granting captive coal blocks, Madam Speaker, is enshrined in Section 3(3)(a) of the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act. According to the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, the captive coal blocks can only be given to two types of entities, (a) either Central Government Undertakings or Corporations that are owned by the Government of India, or (b) companies that have end use plants in iron, steel, power or cement. So, first, what is very clear from the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act is that no private sector joint venture company without a specific end use can be allotted a captive coal block. And, second, no State Government company that does not have a specific end use can be allotted a coal block under the captive regime. Now the current situation is that out of the 204 coal blocks, 37 are ready for production and five will be, very shortly, ready for production, that is, about 42 are ready. What has the Government’s response to the Supreme Court order? They have said that they have reacted with great alacrity and come out with an Ordinance so that there is no disruption to coal production and to the  economic development of the country. Madam Speaker, these 204 coal blocks are divided into three schedules. Schedule-1 includes all the 204; Schedule-2 is a sub-sect of Schedule-1 which includes the 42 coal blocks that are ready for production; and Schedule-3 includes 32 coal blocks that are determined only specifically for specific end use plants. A key feature in this Bill is that from now on coal blocks will be auctioned rather than allotted. Secondly, Government companies can be given an allotment without an auction. But the two changes that are being contemplated are (1) that the State Government entities and joint venture entities between corporations can also be allotted blocks, that means, joint venture entities between Government and private sector can be allotted blocks and (2) the requirement of being an end user has been removed. These are the two new dimensions of the Coal Act. I will deal with these two dimensions separately. But I have seven issues which I would like to pose in front of the Minister, through you, and to the Government and would respectfully require a response on these seven issues. The first issue has to do with the current coal crisis in the country. India has coal reserves of close to 293 billion tonnes. Out of that the recoverable reserves are only about 18 billion tonnes. We are today importing coal of 160 million tonnes, which will probably go up to 240 million tonnes by 2016. Today foreign exchange outgo is of about 16 billion dollars. Today our power needs are 250 GW. That in the next ten years by 2022 will go to 400 GW. Power demand by 2032 will go to 800 GW. Of this power requirement 60 per cent has to come from thermal, which means 150 GW today, 240 GW by 2022 and close to 480 GW by 2032. How are we going to meet this gap in demand? This means that roughly 800 million tonnes of coal capacity is required today and about 1.3 billion by 2022. Coal production today, Madam Speaker, has increased in the last 10 to 15 years only at a very low compounded annual growth rate of one and a half to two per cent per annum. The target for the Government, as has been specified, is to reach one billion tonnes of coal production by 2019. My question was how this was going to be achieved. The Minister in his reply to my question in Parliament last week, very clearly outlined the three routes by which an additional 500 million tonnes of coal production will come into place. I would like to rebut all of those three assumptions through three points that I would like to succinctly make. The first, he said very articulately that 200 million tonnes will come of excess production through this first round of auction. This first round of production includes 74 mines – Scheduled II and Scheduled III. Ninety million tonnes is ready for production. For 120 million tonnes there is no scope of production starting from tomorrow. In any case if production starts, the ramp up to a steady state of 210 million tonnes will take seven to eight years for every single mine. So, that is not going to bear fruit. His second assumption was that an additional 200 million tonnes of production will come into place through efficiency gains of Coal India. My question on that issue is that when Coal India’s production has grown itself, which is 460 million tonnes today out of 560 million tonnes of  total coal production in the country, only at roughly of one and a half per cent to two per cent per year, if you are going to produce an additional 200 million tonnes, CIL will have to increase its production rate by 400 per cent to a compounded annual growth rate of close to 8 per cent as opposed to 2 per cent this year. How is that going to be possible is a question that the Minister must answer this House. The third assumption he made was that 100 million tonnes will come from opening up of the sector. Even if you open up the sector, a hundred million tonnes of coal capacity is not going to be possible before 2019. Gestation period of coal mines is close to about seven to eight years. You have to take environment clearances; you have to take land clearances and that certainly is not going to be possible. Therefore, this Government must realize that we cannot build castles in the air without our feet being firmly planted on the ground. There are two types of governments that this country can get. One, that undercommits and overdelivers and the other, that overcommits but underdelivers. Through you, Madam Speaker, I would like to caution this Government as to what kind of government would they like to be remembered as, one, that overcommits and underdelivers or, one, that undercommits but overdelivers. My second issue is to do directly with Coal India. ‘The elephant in the coal mine needs reform’ as one of the prolific writers in one of the articles has said a couple of weeks ago. This Bill talks about Coal India also being allotted blocks. Now, looking at the inefficiency of production of Coal India, are you going to allot blocks to them without expecting productivity returns? Coal India today produces 80 per cent of India’s capacity of coal. The productivity in the coal sector is judged by output per man-shift. If you look at the open cast mines, Coal India’s output per man-shift is close to eleven and a half tonnes, whereas Government companies in Australia produce close to 75 tonnes. Similar is the case of underground mines. So, the key issue is to boost CIL’s productivity, and that can only be done if we have a production roadmap and if we monitor efficiency, which is the need of the hour. The second issue is that we must restructure CIL. We must make sure that their smaller subsidiaries compete with the parent subsidiary, and that restructuring is a need of the hour. Finally, on the issue of CIL, the Government is thinking of doing a disinvestment of the company. The Government wants to go ahead on an embarkation of production roadmap and all of this without having a CMD in place in CIL for the last seven months. Since May of this year there is no CMD in CIL. The Minister has tried very hard. He has put out an advertisement in the Press for Rs. 1 ½ crore to attract people from the private sector, but there has been no response and you are thinking of going for a disinvestment of a company in the public market without having a CMD in place. What kind of valuation will you get for that company? I think that you must put in place a CMD as soon as possible so that the importance of CIL -- from an efficiency point of view -- also gets put in place. The third issue that I have with regard to this Bill is the changes that are being contemplated in The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act and The MMDR Act. The reason for this Bill is to be able to auction the national blocks. The changes that are proposed are removal of end-user requirement, and allowing Central and State Governments to form JVs within them and get blocks allotted. Now, both of these reasons were the reasons for which the Supreme Court cancelled the blocks allotted. It makes a mockery of the Supreme Court order and in effect this Bill seeks not only to auction these coal mines, but also seeks to amend The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 1976 and The MMDR Act, 1957 without a full-fledged debate on the floor of this House. If you are intending to auction the 74 blocks of Schedule 2 and Schedule 3, you do not need these amendments in The Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act and The MMDR Act. Therefore, I would urge this Government that if you are thinking of privatisation of the coal area and you want to create commercial gains and private profiteering in this sector, then that is not going to be in the national interest over a long-term. I would also like to respectfully ask the Minister that under the new norms it is not clear whether companies bidding under coal or cement and steel can use this coal for their own captive power facility or not. This point must be elucidated on. The fourth area is the issue of coal block swapping. We all understand economics. Efficiency gains through lower transport cost are very very important. But please understand that through this caveat you are allowing two companies to sell and purchase coal with each other. Therefore, there could be difference in grades; in volume requirements; and it is not clear if only equal volumes of coal will be allowed to be swapped between two companies or are the two parties going to be allowed to mutually negotiate compensation to adjust for grades and swapping of different quantity of coal. This point must be clarified. Chapter V Section 21 also of your Bill states that certain arrangements with other successful bidders can lead to selling of coal in open market for profit. This must be amended. There is no reason for this clause. The fifth issue is to do with the prevention of oligopolies. The previous coal policy, which has been followed by successive Governments -- on that side; on this side; and on every side -- has concentrated ownership of coal reserves in a few business groups. The top 10 allotees bagged close to 22 per cent of the reserves. It has also been noted that this Government might introduce certain other filters during the auctions, which will further concentrate ownership in a few hands. The rules restrict the ownership of coal blocks to a certain group. But we all know that companies form different joint ventures; company forms different subsidiaries, and under the garb of joint ventures and subsidiaries try to grab many more of the blocks. My question to the Minister is, what are the policies that you are thinking of in this Bill because it is unclear of how to plug this loophole? The sixth issue is the effect on the power sector because the power sector takes 80 per cent of the coal of this country. The Coal Secretary himself on record has said that out of the Schedule II blocks, which are 42, there are not many at all that have been allocated for the power sector. How can we ensure that sufficient blocks will be there for power and there will be no disruption to the power sector? The economics of each coal block is very, very different. The NPV analysis is very, very different. The distance from the power plant differs. Therefore, you will have many of these power companies that will have to go back and renegotiate tariffs with their State Discoms. Would it not be better, and this is my suggestion that in a regulated sector like power where the end product is regulated, if a lot of these mines were handed over to a PSU? The PSU then does an MDO to be able to extract coal on a cost-plus basis and is given back to that PSU, and then that coal is sold at CIL rates to the power companies thereby making sure that the power sector gets the lowest tariff for the end consumer. If this is not done, I am apprehensive that when companies will bid for captive use, they will get a nod for commercial mining which will follow later, and it will only result in more crony capitalism going forward. The seventh issue has to do with many unresolved factors in this Bill. The first, it is not clear in this Bill whether there will be any restriction on sale or transferring of assets of the acquired coal block by the winning bidder in the future. If the Government puts in this enabling provision and allows coal block sale in the future, then you could see companies bidding today and selling the assets in the future when commercial mining is allowed to make supernormal profits. The second issue is that it is very clearly articulated in the Bill that the block will vest with the bidder only after the land issues are resolved. This seems to me another instance of putting the cart before the horse. There is a wonderful opportunity here to recast the coal sector. We must make sure that all permissions are vested in every block – environment permissions, land permissions, and every single permission must be vested in every block before the auction takes place. Otherwise, like in the past, all your bidders, whether Government companies or end use plants, will be running around for the next seven years trying to get land permission and environment permission before starting production in their coal blocks. The third has to do with the timeline that has been talked about by the Ministry. The pricing was supposed to be completed by the 5th of December; the RFP (Request for Proposals) was supposed to be out by the 8th of December; and the sale was supposed to start by the 9th of December. We are already today on the 12th of December and we have no idea as to what the progress is with regard to this timeline. Therefore, we would request the Minister to elucidate on that front as well. Finally, there are no details about the auction as well. Members in this House are unaware which blocks are going to be put up for auction, how many blocks will be put up for auction, how many blocks are going to be allotted to Government companies, and how many blocks are going to be allotted to State Government companies. We would like to be enlightened by the Minister on that issue as well. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is necessary, that an amendment is required in the coal sector. But it must meet four objectives – objective No. 1, we must reduce the coal deficit; objective No. 2, we must make the mining process much more scientific and cost efficient; objective No. 3, we must make sure that the input prices are the lowest for the regulated sectors. We must make sure that there is not a cascading effect on the end consumers, on the poor of this country. Poor people must get electricity prices at the lowest possible rate so that they can prosper in our country. Finally also, we must talk about improving the standards for the workers in our coal mines.  There is not a single line in this Bill about the workers of our coal mines.  Their blood, their toil, their sweat  takes out this black gold with which our country is progressing economically.  But there is not a single line in this Bill about thousands and lakhs of our coal workers in our coal mines and their development and their progress. So, I would like to say that in this coal policy, it is very clear that we must have one policy for the regulated sector and another policy for the unregulated sector.  For the regulated sector, we must set a ceiling price with a reverse auction.  For the unregulated sector, it must be a full-fledged auction with the revenue maximising auction process.  According to me, there is no reason even to give Government Companies blocks on allotment which do not have specific end-user requirements. Therefore, at this point of time, Madam Speaker, there should be no amendments to the Coal Mine Nationalisation Act, there should be no amendments to the MMDR Act because the auction allotment of Schedules II and III blocks can proceed without any amendments to both the Acts.  The amendment, according to me, should be acceptable for the inclusion of State Government companies, should be acceptable for joint ventures between two Government Companies but certainly is not acceptable for the removal of end-user requirement and for the inclusion of joint ventures of Private Companies that will lead to profiteering and privatisation of the Coal Sector. This Bill, according to us, must be sent to the Standing Committee for their opinion/views before it is passed in this House. Madam Speaker, it has always been the policy with regard to any Bill.  It must go to the related Standing Committee before it is brought to the House for passing. So, at the end, Madam Speaker, this Bill needs to pay respect also to the Supreme Court Order, not only to the Legislature.  I cannot see how we are going to reach a capacity of one billion tonnes per annum by 2019.  It is very clear that we must set up separate markets, build capacity in Government to make sure that they contract, regulate and supervise the coal. It  must be a well-thought out process and not a simple leap of faith as thought of in this Bill. SHRI A. ARUNMOZHITHEVAN ( CUDDALORE ): Madam Speaker, I thank the Chair for giving me an opportunity to speak on this important Bill which seeks to protect the national interest in utilizing coal resources.  I am a humble soldier of AIADMK Party led by our beloved leader, Puratchi Thalaivi Amma, who has taken keen interest to protect the welfare of the workers in the Nevyeli Coal Mines in Tamil Nadu, making it clear that the workforce is the more important resource of the country. This Bill is aimed at saving a situation that has arisen due to the directions of the Supreme Court that had found allocation of coal blocks from 1993 to be arbitrary and illegal in many cases.  It would not be out of place to point out here the largest scam, the coalgate scam, which again drew the attention of the hon. Supreme Court like 2G Scam.  Here also, some political figures were involved.  As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, a former Union Minister belongs to DMK Party is found to be involved in the arbitrary allocation of coal mines.  As a joint venture with a company, this Minister got allotted coal block and sold it away to another firm making a big money.  The hon. Supreme Court has also condemned this kind of corrupt practices.  That is why, the hon. Supreme court cancelled the allocation of 204 coal blocks.  Here, I would like to urge upon the Government to plead for restoring the allocation made to public sector undertakings of the State Governments like Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. Both our natural resources and our workforce must get adequate protection from the fallout of the closure of some mines in the light of the Supreme Court’s Order.  So, the Government had to make some interim arrangements to keep the production going on.  An Ordinance was passed in this regard. Now hon. Coal Minister, Shri Piyush Goyal, has introduced the Bill that seeks to replace the Ordinance. He explained that the Government is keen to overcome the challenges arising out of the cancellation of allocation. He stated that the disruption in the employment opportunities created by the coal mining industries must be attended to. I welcome that part of the observation of the Minister that workers’ interest will be taken care of. This must be followed all over the country in every mine, be it in the public sector or in the private sector. The Supreme Court has observed that the natural resources are the public property and must be utilised rationally. Mining activities especially in the coal sector must be proportionate to the coal requirements of various industrial sectors like power generation, steel and cement production. With the passing of the Bill, the Central Government will be granting explorative permit, perspective licence or mining lease in respect of any area containing coal or lignite. Coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of resources consistent with the growing requirements of the country will rationalise coal and lignite mines and prescribe the details of mines and other conditions. The Bill becomes necessary to overcome the legal hurdles that may crop up later after the expiry of lease period. The Bill proposes to give permits to a government company or corporation or a joint venture company to carry on coal mining operations in India. At this point of time, I would like to lay stress that the Government must ensure that either the Central Government or State Governments are the party in such joint venture companies when private players are also allowed to apply for allocation of coal mines. Either the Central Government or the State Government must have a hand in the operation of coal mines. The shares of public sector undertakings especially the coal units profitably performing as Navaratna companies must not be sold to private players. That is why during the previous regime at the Centre led by the Congress Party, the shares of profit-making Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC) were about to be sold to private people. Many attempts were made by the previous government to sell the shares to private companies which may affect the interests of workers. Our beloved leader, Makkal Mudhalvar, Puratchi Thalaivi, Amma then positively intervened. In order to protect the interests of the working class, our beloved and kind-hearted leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma made the Centre to yield to and to sell five per cent of the total shares which are about to be shed by the Union Government then. The Government of Tamil Nadu led by our dynamic leader Amma purchased those five per cent of shares thereby claiming a stake in the efficient running of NLC. I would like to say in Tamil that Suyanalavadhigalidamirundhu NLCyai kappatriyavar Puratchi Thalaivi Amma. That means, Puratchi Thalaivi Amma has saved the NLC from selfish people. At this point of time, I urge upon the Centre, especially the Ministry of Coal, to go in for compensatory measures to benefit the local population in areas where coal mining activities go on. NLC is in my Constituency Cuddalore. In Cuddalore and its surrounding areas the water table has drastically fallen down giving rise to acute drinking water crisis. Since this had occurred due to the extensive mining activity carried out by NLC, this profit-making public sector company itself must come forward on its own to make efforts to expand water resources in these areas. If need be, necessary funds may be set apart. People whose lands have been acquired for mining purposes by NLC have to be duly compensated with alternative sites and employment opportunities.  Suitable compensation may be paid without undue delay. I urge upon the Coal Minister to see that the contract labourers who are working with the NLC for a number of years have job security and their just demands must meet with justice at the hands of the Central Government. I urge upon the Government to be careful in dealing with natural resources.  They should not needlessly fall into the hands of private players. SHRI KALYAN BANERJEE ( SREERAMPUR ): Today, we are discussing about the Coal Mines Special Provisions Bill 2014.  This is going to be legislated because of the order of the hon. Supreme Court on 25th of August, 2014 whereby the hon. Supreme Court quashed allotment of all coal blocks because the Screening Committee from 1993 to 2009 allotted coal blocks in an arbitrary manner.  Sir, I was the Chairman of the coal related Standing Committee in the 15th Lok Sabha and I remember some of the Members of that Committee are also here in this Lok Sabha.  That Committee, at least one and a half year before the delivery of this judgment, had said before the hon. Supreme Court that all allotments from 1993 to 2009 were illegal and arbitrary. The Committee also made recommendation that so far the mines where coal extractions have not yet been started, that coal blocks should be cancelled and immediately a policy should be formulated by the Government as regards distribution of the coal blocks. Unfortunately, the then Government did not adhere to such recommendation and naturally the judgment of the hon. Supreme Court came on 25th August 2014. Sir, we were all the time in favour of distribution of State largesse on a transparent system and no doubt auction is one of the transparent system.   But in 2G scam, when it came before the hon. Supreme Court, the Supreme Court said that auction is not the only criteria for distribution of natural resources.  Why I am saying this is because today we are mostly concerned about the power sector.  Power sector consumes 80 per cent of the coal for supply of energy and we get the electricity all over the country from there.  Now, the Government should have formulated a policy, even without going into the auction, for distribution of coal to the core sectors, namely power, steel, cement etc. 

However, the Government has chosen to go for auction for all the sectors; auction is the most transparent system and I fully support this. But the object of the Act is to keep supply to the core sectors which are said to be the specified end-use under section 3 (v) . I do not find that really under the scheme of this Bill, these sectors are benefitted. Micro and mini are there; micro is specified end-use, but if I go for mini, like cement, electricity, washing of coal, etc. they are no clear policies laid down, except in section 5 . I will come to section 5 later. Section 4 is a general section – whoever comes for action, if he bids and successful in the auction, then he will get it. Now, the question is how a cement industry can compete with a power industry when it comes under section 4 ? How can a cement industry compete with an iron industry under section 4 , leave alone section 5 ? If I take section 5 , through you, I want to place before the Government that section 5 gives discretionary power and section 4 gives mandatory power. So, a power industry will get coal supply solely on the basis of discretion of the Central Government. Only if the Central Government exercises its discretion, it will get it, and not as a matter of right the core industries will get coal automatically. So, this is my first objection. Why am I objecting to it? Where are you ensuring supply of coal to all the power industries? That is the most predominant question which the country is passing through today. How will the power industry get coal? Where is the scheme of the Act, which ensures supply of coal to all the power industries for generation of power, that has not been specified? That is my first objection. Why is it so? If electricity is not there, then everybody has to suffer. Where is the scheme of the Act? I could not understand that you are having a PSU like steel industry like SAIL. Where have you ensured that your PSUs will get supply of coal without any hindrance, without depending upon anybody? Where is that? The Central PSUs like SAIL have to stand like all other private steel industries. Why are you equating the CPSUs with the private ones? After all, it is a nationalized company, a Government company. They must get priority; they must get privilege in supply of coal. That is my second objection. Why are you not doing it? Our beloved later Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi nationalized coal. That is how, coal has come here. From 1972 to 2014, for decades after decades, after putting hard labour, the coal miners today have built up the coal industries. There may be some stray incidents of some faults. But I must say that the Coal India and its subsidiaries have delivered good result in the country itself. They have built it; they have run the country for long years. Why are you going in for privatization? This is your company.  Why are you not giving coal to the Coal India and its subsidiaries? It is a Central Government company.  You may formulate a policy.  The Supreme Court has not said that in future all coal blocks will have to be allocated through auction. Why have you not formulated a policy?  Why are you not strengthening the Coal India and its subsidiaries?  Why are you not giving coal blocks to the Coal India and its subsidiaries?  You should formulate a policy to supply coal to the core companies from where others can get their supply.  There is the uncertainty of getting coal for the iron and steel company, power and cement industry.  This is the grave concern so far as my Party is concerned. I was talking to the Minister of coal just a few minutes back.  He asked me as to why we are opposing it as our State will get the money.  I may tell the hon. Minister through you, Sir, that mines are the properties of the States.  So far as coal is concerned, this Parliament is enacting the law which gives power to the Central Government otherwise mines are the properties of the States.  You are not giving any charity.  I would like to remind the hon. Minister that he is not giving any charity to the State Government.  He is rather making money from the State Governments’ property and is trying to be benevolent to the State Governments. The Centre should create a positive situation by ensuring uninterrupted supply of coal which will instil confidence in the core industries.  This Government has no scheme of supplying uninterrupted coal.  This confidence must be there.    Today, all the industrialists of the core industries are thinking whether they will get the coal or not.  This confidence is lacking because of the policies of the Government.  The Government has to ensure that the Indian core industries get the coal.  You cannot gain anything from FDI.  This will have a disastrous impact in future.  You may get some gains from some industrialists but this will be at the cost of the poor people of this country.  FDI will bring disastrous effects in our country. Why did you not consult associations like CII, FICCI or Bengal Chamber of Commerce, Kolkata Chamber of Commerce, Bihar Chamber of Commerce, UP Chamber of Commerce and Odisha Chamber of Commerce?  I remember when the Indian Mines and Minerals Bill came before the House, it was sent to the Standing Committee which considered it for long one year.  We, in the Committee, gave a chance of hearing to everyone.  You are bringing such a big legislation without consulting those who will be the real sufferers.  The attempts made through this legislation will destroy our economy. You are only interested in FDI.  You do not want to protect the interest of our Indian industrialists.   The attempt to bring FDI in all spheres of life is having disastrous effect in our country.  You do not have any scheme to monitor supply of coal.  You have brought the legislation.  I would like to know from the hon. Minister, through you, where is the scheme or provision to monitor coal supply. I must thank Shri Scindia who has also made this point.  If the existing companies do not get coal where is the scope to monitor it?  Why are you not giving coal blocks to Coal India and its subsidiaries?  I have already said that the Supreme Court did not say that all coal blocks should be allocated by auction.  It is the Government’s wisdom. 13.00 hrs. 

I appreciate that but why only auction?  You could have framed a policy, at least, for the coal-based companies for giving coal through the Central Government Companies.  If it had been done, it would have ensured coal to them. There is no security or facility for the workers in this entire Act.  It does not speak anything about the workers.  The owners mint money at the cost of poor labourers.  What is their security in this Act? The Coal India and other industries are having JBCCI (Joint Bipartite Committee).  They entered into an agreement which speaks about the conditions of service and improvement in service of all the coal workers. What is your intention about this?  Will you try to bring all the workers of coal blocks which will be allotted to other industries under JBCCI?  Will you extend the benefit of JBCCI to those workers also?  Will you kindly tell us what will be their fate?  Are they going to be governed only by the State laws? Then, within the specified end-use, another industry should have been included.  I would request the Minister to kindly include gas sector also.  As regards production of gas through coal, in other countries like Australia, gas is one of the products which is being produced through coal.  You kindly include it and also give some concession to such industries. So far as monetary benefit is concerned, I have already said that the Central Government is not doing any charity.  At the end, I would say that unless the core industries are secured, this legislation cannot get its life in future days.  One day, it would create suspicion among all the industrialists of our country. With this, I would make a request that this Bill should be referred to the Standing Committee.  It is a very important Bill and it needs a thorough discussion. HON. DEPUTY SPEAKER: Hon. Members, there would not be any lunch break today and we would continue this debate. 1304 hour 

  

 

SHRI TATHAGATA SATPATHY ( DHENKANAL ): Sir, I thank you for this opportunity. As you are aware, I come from the State of Odisha and this State alone holds 26 per cent of the total coal reserves of the subcontinent of India. At the outset, I would like to start  by quoting the former Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Shri Vinod Rai, from his book Not Just an Accountant page 157 wherein, this very able and honest executive has written a very interesting line: 14.00 hrs. 

 

SHRI MEKAPATI RAJA MOHAN REDDY ( NELLORE ): Thank you hon. Deputy Speaker, Sir for giving me an opportunity to participate in the discussion on the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Bill, 2014. The Bill allows the Government to take over the cancelled coal blocks. The first of blocks would be allotted to Government entities such as NTPC, Sate Electricity Boards and mining companies of State Governments. This would protect the interests of electricity consumers. For private companies, the coal blocks would be put in a central pool for bidding through e-auction. The entire proceeds from the auction would go to the States where these mines are located and lakhs of labourers would get employment. Coal worth 20 billion US Dollars, which is being imported annually, would be domestically substituted through this measure. Estimated coal reserves in India is 300 billion tonnes. In India, coal based power projects generate the highest energy. All other sources like wind, solar and hydro have their limitations because of low plant load factors. Coal based power projects account for 60 per cent of the total capacity; it contributes 75 per cent of the energy generated. Unfortunately, during the last five years, while the domestic coal production grew only at 1.5 per cent per annum, the coal based power generating capacity has increased by about 15 per cent per annum. The result is, we are increasingly dependent on import of coal. As estimated 185 million tonnes of coal has to be imported this year, if we have to meet complete gap. If we are importing a product that can be produced within the country, we are importing unemployment that is started of employment. For example, Singareni Collieries Company Limited with an annual coal production of 50 million tonnes, provides direct employment to 70,000 persons and an indirect employment to as many people. If we are importing 185 million tonnes, it only means that we are depriving 5 lakh people of employment. It is shocking that while India and China have the same level of proven coal reserves, India’s production of coal has stagnated at 500 million tonnes per annum against China’s 3500 million tonnes per annum. At least now the Government has to urgently complete process of re-allocation of blocks and start increasing production on a war footing. The biggest problem will be the forest and environment clearances and providing infrastructure for evacuation of coal produced. The Government should take special interest in providing inter-department coordination for the newly allotted coal blocks to start producing coal. I suggest that the Government should revisit the report of B.K. Chaturvedi Committee, which has gone in depth on the issue of environment for coal blocks. They opined that: Sir, power generation is the need of the hour for our country.  Coal has been making headlines for the last several years in the Parliament and outside for all the wrong reasons.  Coal-scam rocked the erstwhile UPA Government and several ministers of the previous regime  were involved in it.  Charge-sheets were filed against them.  Even the Supreme Court had to intervene in this matter and the tainted were exposed. Hon’ble Deputy Speaker Sir, the rate of coal has increased by leaps and bounds since 2001.  One year it would be Rs.1000 per tonne, the very next year, it would sky-rocket to Rs.3000 per tonne.  The small-scale industries were badly affected by this inordinate price-rise.  Coal is an essential ingredient in the production of power.  The erstwhile UPA Government distributed coal-blocks arbitrarily like pea-nuts.  It resulted in a massive coal-scam.  The coal-production was adversely affected.  The price of coal went through the roof.  The whole country suffered due to the acts of the previous Government.  As a result, the Congress Government lost at the hustings. Hon’ble Deputy Speaker Sir, I do not want to dwell at length on this issue.  Punjab has always purchased coal at an expensive rate from the coal-producing states.  However, now, the people of the country are hopeful that the Government of Prime Minister Modi ji will surely help boost the economy and industry of the country.  Trade and commerce will get a fillip.  Scams will become a thing of the past and the agenda of development will be pursued with vigour.  This bill is a step in this direction..  Hon’ble Deputy Speaker Sir, a new and transparent coal-block auctioning system will now be followed.  We must ensure ample production of coal now.  It must be ensured that the coal-block allottees produce a minimum amount of coal in a fixed time-frame so that there is no artificial shortage of coal. Also, sir, we must have the data regarding the coal production in all the states.  The states must be made responsible for the proper functioning of their thermal power-plants.  A law should be made in this regard. Sir, labour is very cheap in our country.  However, we had to import coal in recent years as our coal production dipped.  Good quality coal at cheaper rate was imported by the erstwhile UPA Government.  It ruined our coal industry.  We must avoid this scenario. In the end,  I thank the Hon’ble Minister for bringing this bill in the Parliament.  I whole-heartedly support this bill.  A coal policy friendly to the states should be framed so that there is no dearth of coal in our country. श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ) : सभापति जी, मैं आपका धन्यवाद करता हूँ कि आपने मुझे बोलने का मौका दिया। मंत्री जी अच्छे इंसान तो हैं, अच्छी जगह बैठे हुए भी हैं लेकिन लगता है कि अच्छी पार्टी में नहीं हैं। ...(व्यवधान) “मुँह में राम बगल में छुरी, नहियों कम तो थोड़मथोड़ी।” कथनी और करनी में इतना फर्क, खाने के दाँत कुछ और, तथा दिखाने के कुछ और। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : यह आपको किसी और ने बताया है। श्री राजेश रंजन : हाँ। कोयला जितना काला, उतना ही काला धन, उतना ही काला मन, उतना ही काला माफिया। यह कोयला अध्यादेश लाना - इस सरकार से क्या राष्ट्रहित की कल्पना की जाए? अध्यादेश पूँजीपतियों के हित में है, अडानी और अंबानी के हित में यह अध्यादेश है। मान्यवर, मुझे एक बात समझ में नहीं आती है कि आप प्रकृति को नष्ट करके इस देश को कैसे बचाना चाहते हैं। क्या प्रकृति को बचाने के लिए आपके पास कोई सुझाव आ पाता है या नहीं? मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से दो-तीन बिंदु जानना चाहता हूं कि के.पी.एम.जी. द्वारा चालीस प्लांट्स और माइन्स की दूरी के हिसाब से अदला-बदली करना चाहते हैं। अगर " ए " के नजदीक " बी " है और उसे " ए " से लिंक कर दिया जाए तो सामने से तो यह ठीक लगता है, लेकिन इसके भीतर जाने पर आपको स्पष्ट रूप से पता चलेगा कि आप क्या करने जा रहे हैं? आपने कहा है कि किसी माइन की लाइफ दस साल बाकी है तो किसी माइन की बीस साल बाकी है। जो माइन अच्छी है, आपकी क्या मंशा है कि उसे सरकार से हटा कर पूंजीपतियों को दे दिया जाए? जिस माइन की मात्र तीन साल की आयु बची है, जिसकी आयु बहुत कम है उसे सरकार में लाकर घाटे का सौदा दिखा दिया जाए। इन चालीस प्लांटों में सरकारी और प्राइवेट दोनों होंगे। यह न हो कि सरकार की अच्छी क्वालिटी की माइन्स प्राइवेट को दे दें और सारी खराब क्वालिटी की माइन्स सरकार रख ले। आप इस मामले में पारदर्शी हैं या नहीं? वैसे तो यह सरकार कहीं से पारदर्शी नहीं है। इस सरकार की स्थिति छः महीने में दिखायी दे रही है कि सोशल जस्टिस और गरीबों के लिए कुछ नहीं किया है। आप छः महीने में केवल पूंजीपतियों के लिए बिल पर बिल ला रहे हैं। मुझे लगता है कि पिछले 68 सालों में यह देश बिचौलियों, दलालों, पूंजीपतियों और ब्यूरोक्रेट्स के तालमेल और घालमेल से ही चला है। ये बिचौलिये हमारे देश के गरीब और आम आदमी को क्या बचने देगें, इस पर चर्चा कभी अलग से होनी चाहिए। लेकिन यह स्पष्ट है कि पूरे देश और दुनिया को पता है कि ये कोयला माइन्स हैं। इनमें बिचौलियों, माफियाओं और पूंजीपतियों की पूरी मिलीभगत है। आप की सरकार और आप जैसे बेहतर मंत्री इस देश को लूटने के लिए बिचौलियों और पूंजीपतियों का जो यह घालमेल है, क्या आप उनकी इस संस्कृति को रोकेंगे? जिस तरीके से आप विदेशों में जाकर छः हजार करोड़ रुपये के लिए अडानी को देने के लिए परेशान होते हैं और आप यह अध्यादेश पूंजीपतियों के लिए ला रहे हैं, इस पर आपको जवाब देना चाहिए। इस बारे में आपको बताना चाहिए कि आप क्या करने जा रहे हैं। तीसरी बात यह है कि आप टोटल लाभ वाली माइंस का प्राइवेटाइजेशन करने जा रहे हैं और जो माइन्स घाटे में हैं, उन्हें सरकार के पास रखने जा रहे हैं। इसके साथ मैं मंत्री जी का ध्यान बिहार की तरफ दिलाना चाहता हूं। आप जानते हैं कि बिहार गरीब प्रदेश है, किसानों का प्रदेश है, बेरोजगारों का प्रदेश है। मंत्री जी आप बिहार गए थे। बिहार आपसे बिजली के लिए जितने कोयले की मांग करता है, आप उसे आबंटित नहीं करते हैं और जो कुछ आबंटित करते भी हैं, वे भी आप समय पर नहीं करते हैं। हमारे यहां जमुई, बांका, मुंगेर, सासाराम, नवादा, गया आदि माइन्स के इलाके हैं। मैं आपको याद दिलाना चाहता हूं कि निश्चित रूप से हमारे देश के प्रधानमंत्री जी का 56 इंच का सीना है, मैं यह जानता भी हूं। प्रधानमंत्री जी ने कहा था कि बिहार को विशेष राज्य का दर्जा दिया जाएगा। मुझे पता नहीं है कि बोलने के बाद आप क्यों यू टर्न ले लेते हैं। यदि आप बिहार को विशेष राज्य का दर्जा नहीं दे सकते हैं, तो बिजली की पूर्ति के लिए आप बिहार को पूर्ण रूप से कोयला, जिससे कि कोयले की कमी न हो और समय पर इतना कोयला दें कि हम अपने गांवों में बिजली दे सकें। मैं आपके माध्यम से अंत में कहना चाहता हूं कि मंत्री जी पूरे मंत्रालय को पारदर्शी करने का काम करें और यह सरकार जो पूंजीपतियों की सरकार है, उन पूंजीपतियों से देश को बचाएं तथा इस विभाग को आम आदमी का बनाएं। श्री ताम्रध्वज साहू ( दुर्ग ) : सभापति जी, मैं माननीय मंत्री जी द्वारा प्रस्तुत कोयला खनन से संबंधित संशोधन विधेयक पर चर्चा हेतु खड़ा हुआ हूं। महोदय, कोल माइन्स का नेशनलाइजेशन वर्ष 1973 में स्वर्गीय इंदिरा जी की सरकार ने किया था। इसके पीछे प्राइवेट कोल कंपनियों के द्वारा असुरक्षित और केवल अपने लाभ के उद्देश्य से की जा रही अवैज्ञानिक माइनिंग प्रमुख कारण था। इससे पर्यावरण, मज़दूरों और देश में सभी को नुकसान हो रहा था। वर्तमान विधेयक कहने को तो माननीय उच्चतम न्यायालय के कोल ब्लॉक रद्द करने के फैसले को अमल में लाने के उद्देश्य से लाया गया है, परंतु इसकी आड़ में यह सरकार पूरे कोयला खनन उद्योग को निजीकरण के रास्ते पर डाल रही है। ऐसा करना देश की ऊर्जा सुरक्षा के लिए घातक है, जो कि आज भी 65औ कोयले पर निर्भर करती है। निजी क्षेत्र अपने फायदे के लिए सोचेंगे, फायदे के लिए करेंगे। वे देश के लिए नहीं सोचेंगे और देश के मज़दूरों का हित नहीं करेंगे। स्वर्गीय इंदिरा गांधी जी ने जो कोयले का राष्ट्रीयकरण किया, उसका ही परिणाम है कि भारत ने कोल इंडिया लिमिटेड जैसी बड़ी और शक्तिशाली कंपनी खड़ी की। वर्ष 2013-2014 में कोल इंडिया ने 465 मिलियन टन कोयले का उत्पादन किया और 22,000 करोड़ रुपये का शुद्ध लाभ अर्जित किया है। इसके अलावा, 9,000 करोड़ रुपये का अंशदान भी भारत सरकार को दिया है। वर्ष 1993 में कांग्रेस की सरकार ने बदली अर्थव्यवस्था में कोयला खनन के लिए उन निजी कंपनियों को अनुमति दी जो कि स्वयं के उपयोग जैसे स्टील, पावर, सीमेंट बनाने के लिए कोयले का खनन कर सकती हैं, अर्थात् किसी भी निजी कंपनी को खुले बाजार में कोयला बेचने की अनुमति नहीं दी। इसके विपरीत आज जो विधेयक लाया गया है, उसमें धारा 4 में निजी कंपनियों को खुले बाजार में कोयला बेचने, यहां तक कि निर्यात करने की भी छूट दी गयी है। ऐसा करना कोयला राष्ट्रीयकरण मामले में माननीय सुप्रीम कोर्ट के संविधान पीठ फैसले के खिलाफ है। यह कदम वर्तमान में कोल ब्लॉक मामले में सुप्रीम कोर्ट के फैसले के भी खिलाफ है। वस्तुततः निजी कंपनियों को खुले बाजार में कोयला बेचने की छूट देना कोयला राष्ट्रीयकरण कानून में संशोधन नहीं है, वरन इससे पूरे कानून को पलटा जा रहा है। यह उल्लेखनीय है कि कोई भी संशोधन मूल कानून की भावना के विपरीत नहीं हो सकता, परन्तु इस विधेयक की धारा 4 व धारा 30 मूल कानून के एकदम विपरीत है। प्रस्तुत विधेयक की धारा 4 व धारा 5 में सरकारी कंपनियों के साथ बने निजी कंपनियों के संयुक्त उपक्रमों को भी कोल ब्लॉक दिए जाने का प्रावधान रखा गया है। वर्तमान में सुप्रीम कोर्ट का कोल ब्लॉक मामले में जो फैसला आया है, उसमें इस संयुक्त उपक्रम मॉडल को पूरी तरह अव्यावहारिक बताया गया है। दो अलग-अलग कंपनियों की कोयले की आवश्यकता एक ही समय में समान नहीं हो सकती। इस बात की पूरी आशंका रहती है कि कोयले के आवंटन का दुरुपयोग हो सकता है। सम्माननीय सभापति जी, सुप्रीम कोर्ट के द्वारा कोयला ब्लॉक रद्द होने के फैसले के बाद सरकार के पास अवसर था कि वह पूरे कोल ब्लॉक को नए सिरे से आवंटित करने के पहले यह जांच करती कि अत्यधिक घने जंगल वाले ब्लॉक, जो कि कुल ब्लॉकों में महज 15-20 प्रतिशत हैं, और अत्यधिक विस्थापन वाले ब्लॉकों को छोड़ देती, परन्तु सरकार ऐसा नहीं कर रही है। महोदय, छत्तीसगढ़ के संदर्भ में मैं बताना चाहूंगा कि तारा कोल ब्लॉक, सरगुजा अत्यधिक घने जंगल में स्थित है और यह क्षेत्र हाथी-आदमी का क्षेत्रीय संघर्ष स्थल बन गया है। अगर यहां कोयला खनन हुआ तो यह संघर्ष और बढ़ेगा, परन्तु फिर भी सरकार इस ब्लॉक को पुनः आवंटित करना चाह रही है। इसी तरह, धर्मजयगढ़ का दुर्गापुर, तराईमार, सरया कोल ब्लॉक लगभग आधे धर्मजयगढ़ शहर को उजाड़ देगा। इस कारण इस क्षेत्र की जनता इस कोल ब्लॉक के भारी विरोध में है, परन्तु फिर भी सरकार इन्हें आवंटित करना चाहती है। यहां यह उल्लेखनीय है कि इस विधेयक में कोल माइन्स (नेशनलाइजेशन) कानून में सम्पूर्ण कोल ब्लॉकों की एक बृहद् योजना के तहत माइनिंग प्लान बनाने का प्रावधान है। यह प्रावधान होते हुए पुनः घने जंगल वाले या बड़ी संख्या में विस्थापन वाले ब्लॉकों का आवंटन प्राकृतिक न्याय के सिद्धांत के खिलाफ है।  सरकार कोयले की कमी और बिजली की कमी को बहाना बनाकर निजीकरण करना चाहती है। यह तथ्य भी सामने आना आवश्यक है। वर्तमान में देश में 2.5 लाख मेगावाट क्षमता की विद्युत उत्पादन क्षमता स्थापित है। इसमें लगभग 1.5 लाख मेगावाट कोयले पर आधारित है। वर्तमान में हमारी अधिकतम विद्युत की माँग केन्द्रीय विद्युत प्राधिकरण रिपोर्ट के आधार पर 1.45 लाख मेगावाट है अर्थात् क्षमता हमारे पास अधिक है, कमी हमारे पास ट्रांसमिशन व वितरण नेटवर्क की है। यह कहा गया कि 37 प्रतिशत कोयला आधारित पावर प्लांट कोयले की कमी के कारण बन्द हैं, यह सर्वथा गलत है। वस्तुतः अधिकांश प्लांट या तो महंगी बिजली बेचना चाहते हैं या फिर तकनीकी खराबी के कारण बन्द हैं। कोयले की कमी को बहाना बनाकर सरकार कुछ बड़ी निजी कम्पनियों को लाभ दिलाना चाहती है, इसलिए वह कामर्शियल माइनिंग को खोलना चाह रही है। इससे सीधा नुकसान मजदूरों और कर्मचारियों को होगा। इसलिए सारी यूनियनें, यहाँ तक कि आरएसएस की बीएमएस भी इसके विरोध में है। महोदय, स्वयं के उपयोग के लिए सीमेंट, पावर व स्टील क्षेत्र पहले से ही निजी क्षेत्र के लिए खुला है। ये तीनों क्षेत्र 85 प्रतिशत कोयले की खपत करते हैं। इस विधेयक में कामर्शियल माइनिंग को इन क्षेत्रों के अलावा अन्य क्षेत्रों को कारण बताकर खोला जा रहा है, जो कि महज 15 प्रतिशत है, जबकि इतना तो कोल इन्डिया का उत्पादन बढ़ाकर पूरा हो सकता है। आपने समय दिया, उसके लिए धन्यवाद। श्रीमती अनुप्रिया पटेल ( मिर्ज़ापुर ): महोदय, कोयला घोटाला देश के सबसे बड़े घोटाले की शक्ल में हम सबके सामने आया। सर्वोच्च न्यायालय को विवश होकर हस्तक्षेप करना पड़ा और 2004 कोल ब्लाकों के आबंटन रद्द किये गये, क्योंकि, इन आबंटनों से प्राकृतिक संशाधनों का दोहन करके व्यक्तिगत हित को साधा गया और राष्ट्रहित की अनदेखी की गई। माननीय सर्वोच्च न्यायालय ने जो फैसला किया, वह निश्चित रूप से राष्ट्रीय हित में रहा, लेकिन उससे देश के समक्ष तमाम चुनौतियाँ आकर खड़ी हो गईं। उन्हीं चुनौतियों से निबटने के लिए आज हमारी सरकार ने इस विधेयक को लाने का काम किया है। हमारे देश की अधिकांश ऊर्जा पूर्ति का एकमात्र स्रोत कोयला है। अगर सर्वोच्च न्यायालय के निर्णय के उपरान्त कोल माइनिंग आपरेशंस को बन्द किया जाए तो निश्चित रूप से ऊर्जा का बहुत भारी संकट हमारे देश में खड़ा होने की संभावना है। इसके साथ ही बहुत सारा निवेश जो बैंकों से लोन के रूप में लिया गया है, उसके भी नॉन परफार्मिंग एसेट्स बनने की एक बड़ी चुनौती देश के सामने है, इसलिए यह अनिवार्य था कि इस बिल को लाया जाए। मैं इस बिल का समर्थन और स्वागत करती हूं। हमारे कुछ विपक्ष के साथियों ने राष्ट्रीयकरण के सवाल को खड़ा किया है। मैंने भी इस बिल के प्रावधानों को पढ़ा है। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से अनुरोध करती हूं कि एक बहुत बड़ी चिंता जो डीनेशनलाइजेशन के संबंध में बहुत सारे सम्मानित साथियों द्वारा व्यक्त की गयी, उस पर आप एक विस्तृत वक्तव्य जरूर दें और इस चिंता से हम सबको, पूरे सदन को मुक्त करें कि जो डीनेशनलाइजेशन की प्रक्रिया है, इससे आप कैसे बचाव करेंगे। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी का ध्यान कोयला खदानों वाले क्षेत्रों में रहने वाले आदिवासी जनजाति समुदाय की ओर भी ले जाना चाहती हूं। अगर इन कोल ब्लॉक वाले तमाम इलाकों का भौगोलिक अध्ययन किया जाए तो इसमें सबसे ज्यादा जो आबादी रहती है, वह आदिवासी और जनजाति समुदाय की है। ये क्षेत्र सामाजिक रूप से सबसे ज्यादा पिछड़े हुए हैं। विकास के मानदंडों पर देश में सबसे ज्यादा अफसोसजनक एच.डी.आई. के आंकड़े अगर कहीं देखने को मिलते हैं तो इन इलाकों में मिलते हैं। सभापति महोदय, ये वे इलाके हैं जहां पर मानव तस्करी के सबसे बड़े आंकड़े हमारे सामने आते हैं। ये हमारे आदिवासी जनजाति समुदाय के बेटे-बेटियां हैं, जिनको देश और दुनिया में मजदूरों और घरेलू कामगारों के रूप में सप्लाई किया जाता है। खनिज संपदा भी यहीं से देश और दुनिया में भेजी जाती है। अगर हम आजादी के समय की कल्पना करें, उस वक्त के आंकड़े निकाल कर देखें तो बिहार, छत्तीसगढ़, झारखंड, ओडिशा, पश्चिम बंगाल, मध्य प्रदेश जैसे राज्यों में इन आदिवासी जनजाति समुदायों की आबादी लगभग 70 से 80 प्रतिशत हुआ करती थी, लेकिन आज आजादी के बाद लगभग 68 वर्षों में जिस तरीके से इन लोगों का स्थानीय माफियाओं द्वारा शोषण हुआ है, बड़ी-बड़ी कंपनियों और उद्योगपतियों के गठजोड़ के द्वारा, रोजी-रोटी के लिए इनका जो पलायन हुआ है, उससे इनकी आबादी घटकर 10 से 20 प्रतिशत हो गयी है।  आज वह हमारे लिए एक बहुत बड़ी चुनौती है। इस बिल को तो सरकार लाने जा रही है लेकिन इन कोयला खादान वाले क्षेत्रों में जो शोषित तबके के लोग रहते हैं, उनकी सामाजिक सुरक्षा के लिए सरकार ने क्या व्यवस्थाएं बनाई है? सभापति महोदय, मैं कहना चाहती हूं कि ये वही क्षेत्र हैं जो प्रशासनिक और सरकारी तंत्र की विफलता के कारण नक्सलवाद के प्रभाव और उसके दंश को भी झेल रहे हैं। मैं सरकार से यह अनुरोध करती हूं कि आज जब आप बिल ला रहे हैं तो उसमें ऐसा प्रावधान जरूर होना चाहिए कि बीडिंग के जरिए जिन कम्पनियों को कोयला खादानों का आवंटन करने जा रहे हैं उनकी अनिवार्य रूप से यह जिम्मेदारी हो कि उन इलाकों में रहने वाले आदिवासी समुदाय के लोगों के जीवन स्तर को सुधारने के लिए, वह अपने सी.एस.आर. फण्ड को उन खादानों के दो किलोमीटर के दायरे में स्वास्थ्य-शिक्षा जैसी तमाम बुनियादी ढांचे को विकसित करने के लिए जिम्मेदारी उठाने का काम करे। ऐसा करना इसलिए जरूरी है कि हमारे पिछले अनुभव यह साबित करते हैं कि जब कोयला खदानें बड़ी-बड़ी कम्पनियों को अवंटित की गईं तो उन्होंने व्यक्ति हित के लिए उनका दोहन किया लेकिन उन इलाकों में रहने वाले आदिवासी जनजाति समुदाय के लोगों के जीवन स्तर को बढ़ाने के लिए किसी भी प्रकार के प्रयास नहीं किए हैं। मैं पुनः सरकार से अनुरोध करती हूं कि इस बिल में ऐसे प्रावधानों को निश्चित रूप से सम्मिलित किया जाए। मैं इन्हीं शब्दों के साथ अपनी बात समाप्त करती हूं। श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ) : माननीय सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे कोयला, संशोधन विधेयक - 2014 पर विचार रखने के लिए मौका दिया है, इसके मैं आपका लिए आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। सरकार अक्टूबर, 2014 में कोयला खान विशेष प्रावधान अध्यादेश को कानूनी रूप देने के लिए, इस बिल को सदन में लेकर आई है जिसका सरकार समर्थक, ट्रेड यूनियन और भारतीय मजदूर संघ भी विरोध कर रहे हैं। माननीय सदस्यों की जो राय आई है, निश्चित रूप से इस बिल को स्थायी समिति में जाना चाहिए। अभी अनुप्रिया पटेल जी ने भी चिंता व्यक्त की है कि जहां पर पहाड़ी इलाका होता है, वहीं पर खदान होती हैं, वहां पर आदिवासियों की बड़ी आबादी होती है। आज उनके खाने, रहने और स्वास्थ की चिंता है। आखिर वह कौन करेगा? बड़े-बड़े उद्योगपति आएंगे और कोयला ब्लॉक्स लेंगे, कोयला निकालेंगे, मजदूरों को काम देंगे, लेकिन उनके स्वास्थ्य की चिंता उनको नहीं है, उनके घर की चिंता उनको नहीं है। इस तरह की चिंता पर भी विचार होना चाहिए। वह भी हमारे देश के अंग हैं उनके प्रति भी हमें श्रद्धा रखनी चाहिए। अभी कई ट्रेड यूनियन, इंटक के लोग, वामपंथी पार्टियां भी बिल का विरोध कर रहे थे। कई तरह की विरोध की खबर पेपर में भी आई है उसके बावजूद भी आपने इस विधेयक को लाया है। इस विधेयक को जल्दीबाजी में पारित करना ठीक नहीं होगा। माननीय उच्च न्यायालय द्वारा 2014 कोल ब्लॉक्स आवंटन को रद्द करने के कारण, न्यायालय के आदेश से जो संकट उत्पन्न हुआ है उसी की आड़ में सरकार उसे बदलना चाहती है। जब सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने अपना निर्णय दिया तभी सरकार ने भी उसे अवैध आवंटन माना, नहीं तो पीछे से चली आ रही बंदरबांट को कोई सरकार अवैध मानने को तैयार नहीं थी। अब सभी तथ्य सामने आए हैं। मैं सरकार से गुजारिश करता हूं कि नीलामी प्रक्रिया पूर्णतः पारदर्शी हो और कहीं से कोई भी संदेह न हो। सरकार ऐसी व्यवस्था करे जिससे कानूनी प्रक्रिया में नीलामी प्रक्रिया एवं आवंटन सही हो, जिससे आवंटियों को जो अभी परेशानी हो रही है, वह उन्हें फिर न हो। क्योकि ऐसा देखा जा रहा है कि जिन-जिन कम्पनियों के कोल ब्लॉक्स रद्द हुए हैं, वे भी काफी परेशानी में हैं, उस के कारण कई कम्पनियों की बहुत बड़ी पूंजी हुई फंसी है।  उन्हें परेशानी होना स्वाभाविक है। साथ ही बैंक, संस्थाएं आदि के बड़े लोन भी इसमें फंस चुके हैं। सरकार को इस पर भी विचार करना चाहिए। कोल ब्लॉक आवंटन में इस बात का भी ख्याल रखना चाहिए कि बिजली कम्पनियों को देने वाले कोयले से बिजली महंगी न हो। ग्रामीण इलाकों के बिजली उपभोक्ताओं का भी ध्यान रखना चाहिए। मंत्री जी, मैं आपसे निवेदन करूंगा कि खदान में जो आवंटन रद्द हुआ है, इससे निजी कोयला खनन ठप्प कर दिया गया है। केन्द्र सरकार निजी खनन को मंजूरी देने के लिए जो पॉलिसी लाई है, निश्चित रूप से यह स्थायी समिति में जाने लायक है। मैं सदन व मंत्री जी से मांग करना चाहता हूं कि इसे वापिस किया जाए और सब लोगों की सलाह ली जाए। SHRI RATTAN LAL KATARIA ( AMBALA ): Sir, Nepoleon used to say, ‘give me a General for a day, I will change the history.  In the same way आज आदरणीय पीयूष गोयल जी नरेन्द्र मोदी जी के उस जनरल के तौर पर उभरकर आए हैं। 14.41 hrs.                                      (Hon. Deputy Speaker in the Chair) 

एक क्रान्तिकारी कदम भारत में रिफॉर्म की दृष्टि से लाए हैं। मैं इस असवर पर कहना चाहूंगा कि इस बिल के माध्यम से भारत को विश्व पटल पर जो भी अपॉर्चुनिटी मिलेगी grab all those opportunities. यूपीए सरकार की पॉलिसी पैरालाइसिस के समय से आज हमारी सरकार पॉलिसी प्रोनाउंसमैंट की ओर बढ़ रही है। एक के बाद एक क्रान्तिकारी कदम सुधारों के बारे में हो रहे हैं। मैं हरियाणा प्रदेश से आता हूं। हरियाणा में कोयला नहीं होता, लेकिन वहां इस देश का सबसे बड़ा कोयला ...* था जो पिछली बार इस संसद में भी था। ...(व्यवधान) मैं नाम नहीं बताऊंगा क्योंकि वह इस सदन के सदस्य नहीं हैं। जनता ने उन्हें बहुत बुरी तरह से हरा दिया है। वे तीसरे, चौथे नम्बर पर गए हैं। हम कभी सोच भी नहीं सकते थे कि कुरुक्षेत्र की गीता की उस पवित्र भूमि का सांसद इस देश का सबसे बड़ा कोयला ...  * निकलेगा। इस प्रकार जब देश में इस सम्पदा को लूटा गया तो सुप्रीम कोर्ट ने भी उसका संज्ञान लिया और सारे कोल आवंटनों को रद्द कर दिया। मुझे वर्ष 1991 का समय याद आ रहा है। हमारे शैडयूल्ड कास्ट मोर्चे की एक बैठक कुरुक्षेत्र में थी और श्रद्धेय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी वह बैठक करने गए थे। मैं वंचित समाज से भी आता हूं। मैंने नैचुरल रिसोर्सेज के बारे में श्रद्धेय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी से उस समय प्रश्न किया था कि जब आप इस देश के प्रधान मंत्री बनेंगे तो what will be your policy regarding distribution of means of production and natural resources? तब उन्होंने उसका उचित उत्तर देते हुए कहा था कि कभी वक्त आया तो नैचुरल रिसोर्सेज के बारे में, उनके डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन के बारे में हम एक पारदर्शी योजना बनाएंगे। आज वही काम पूयीष गोयल जी लेकर आए हैं, आज वही काम हमारे नेता आदरणीय नरेन्द्र मोदी जी लेकर आए हैं।  इस बिल के माध्यम से सभी कोयला उत्पादनों में लगी कम्पनियों को अधिकार मिलेंगे, कोयला निकालने की पूरी छूट मिलेगी। देश उन हालतों से कैसे बचेगा, हमने देखा कि वर्ष 2012 में हिन्दुस्तान का सारा उत्तरी ग्रिड फेल हो गया, उत्तरी भारत के 60 करोड़ लोग 24 घंटे बिना बिजली के रहे। हरियाणा के अंदर राजीव गांधी थर्मल पॉवर प्लांट खेदड़ में है, वहां भी बहुत बुरी हालत हुई, वह किस तरह से ठप हुआ, हरियाणा प्रदेश के अंदर इस प्रकार के कोयले से चलने वाले बिजली घर थे। उन सभी में काम बंद रहा। देश के 100 तापघरों में एक समय ऐसा आया, जब 50 से भी ज्यादा में मात्र 6-7 दिन का कोयला शेष रह गया था। जिस तरह से यह कदम उठाया गया है। HON. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: There are four more speakers to speak and the hon. Minister also has to reply. Please wind up. श्री रत्न लाल कटारिया ( अम्बाला ) : ...* कितनी विडंबना की बात है कि दुनिया के मामले में पांचवा देश होने के पश्चात् भी 20 लाख डॉलर का कोयला दूसरे देशों से मंगवा रहे हैं। हम कोयले के थर्ड लार्जेस्ट इम्पोर्टर बन गए हैं। आज देश में सुपर क्वालिटी का कोयला उत्पादन करने  की अतिआवश्यकता है। सरकार ने जो लक्ष्य रखा है, हिन्दुस्तान के सात लाख गांव में बिजली पहुंचाने का, हमारी सरकार इसे अवश्य पूरा करेगी। (इति) 
 

श्री दुष्यंत चौटाला ( हिसार ) : महोदय, आपने कोयले की खदानों के इस अह्म बिल पर बोलने का मौका दिया। पिछले दो साल से सुप्रीम कोर्ट के अंदर बराबर दलीलों के बाद कोल ब्लॉक्स के आवंटन को रद्द किया गया, वह रद्द इसलिए किया गया क्योंकि पिछली यूपीए सरकार द्वारा की गई अनियमितताओं के कारण उसमें बहुत बड़े स्केल पर कोल के आवंटन में करप्शन हुआ। मैं सरकार के इस बिल का स्वागत करता हूं। आज हमारे देश की क्षमता ढाई सौ गीगावाट यूनिट बिजली प्रोडक्शन की है। अगर हम अपने देश की बात करें तो कोयले की कमी के कारण मात्र 156 मेगावाट बिजली प्रोडय़ूस कर रहे हैं। नुकसान चाहे इंडस्ट्रियल सेक्टर का हो रहा है, चाहे डोमेस्टिक क्षेत्र का हो रहा है। यह उस कमी के कारण है जो यूपीए-1 और यूपीए-2 के कोल ऑक्शन के दौरान हुई थी। मेरे से पहले रत्न लाल कटारिया जी ने कहा कि हम कोल के इंपोर्टर में तीसरे नंबर पर हैं। हमें बड़े पैमाने पर कोल इम्पोर्ट करना पड़ता है, चाहे वह मलेशिया हो या अन्य कोल प्रोडय़ूसिंग कंट्री, उनसे इम्पोर्ट करना पड़ता है, इससे देश का अधिकतम पैसा दूसरे देशों की इकोनॉमी में जा रहा है। मैं सरकार के इस कदम का स्वागत करता हूं। पॉवर सेक्टर को आगे ले जाने के लिए, सरकार द्वारा जो कोल ऑक्शन के एलोकेशन का बिल लाया गया है, मैं सरकार से यही मांग करना चाहूंगा कि पिछले दो सालों के अंदर हमने 15 बिलियन यूनिट बिजली के लूज किए, क्योंकि हमारे पास कोयले की खपत नहीं थी। हरियाणा में बिजली के 12 यूनिट हैं, जो थर्मल पर आधारित है, कोयले पर आधारित है। उसमें से डेढ़ साल तक चार यूनिट और छह महीने तक 5 यूनिट बंद रहे क्योंकि हमारे प्रदेश में कोयले की कमी थी। एक समय तो ऐसा आया कि प्रदेश के अंदर तीन यूनिट में केवल पांच से सात दिन का कोयला बचा था। केन्द्र सरकार ने कदम उठाया, कोयला भेजा गया, दुबारा प्रोडक्शन स्टार्ट हुई, मैं धन्यवाद करता हूं कि हमारे यहां अब 11 प्रोडक्शन यूनिट चल रहे हैं। माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, जहां कोयले के डिस्ट्रीब्यूशन की बात आती है, उस संबंध में मैं सरकार से मांग करना चाहता हूं कि पूरे आबंटन का 80 प्रतिशत कोयला पावर सैक्टर के लिए एलोकेट करना चाहिए, जिससे हमारे यहां बिजली की किल्लत न आये। जहां तक बिल की बात है, तो उसका क्लाज 8, सैक्शन 5 कहता है कि माइन्स को फ्लोर प्राइज पर ऑक्शन किया जायेगा। मगर माननीय मंत्री ने वह फ्लोर प्राइज कहीं भी डिसक्राइब करने का कार्य नहीं किया। मैं अपील करूंगा कि वे सदन में बताने का काम करें कि फ्लोर प्राइज क्या है? क्लाज 4, सैक्शन 5 में लिखा है कि पिछले कोल आबंटन के अंदर जिन्हें तीन साल से ज्यादा की सजा हुई, वे इसके अंदर पार्टीसिपेट नहीं कर पायेंगे। मैं माननीय मंत्री से निवेदन करूंगा कि तीन साल नहीं, जो भी दागी है, चाहे उसे एक दिन की सजा हुई हो, उसे इस ऑक्शन से बैन करना चाहिए, ताकि दोबारा ऐसे लुटरे हमारे देश में न आयें। मैं एक चीज और कहना चाहूंगा कि क्लाज 4(3) में गवर्नमैंट माइनिंग के बारे में कहती है, मगर माइनिंग के बाद उसके यूज को स्पेसीफाई नहीं कर पाती। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से निवेदन करूंगा कि उस यूज के अंदर स्पेसीफाई किया जाये कि गवर्नमैंट बेस्ड, चाहे हाइड्रो सैक्टर हो ...(व्यवधान) माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं एक लाइन में अपनी बात कनक्लूड करूंगा। चाहे हाइड्रो सैक्टर हो, स्टील इंडस्ट्री हो या अन्य गवर्नमैंट ओरियेन्टेड सैक्टर्स हों, जिसमें कोल की जरूरत है, कम से कम 85 प्रतिशत हिस्सा हमें उस सैक्टर के लिए एलोकेट करना चाहिए। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं अपनी बात कनक्लूड कर रहा हूं। अभी जिस तरह अनुप्रिया जी ने कहा कि सीएसआर को वहां रहती हुई छोटी जातियों के लिए, जो इन्हें रीलोकेट किया जायेगा, उनके लिए एलॉट करना चाहिए। मैं अपनी पार्टी की ओर से उस सुझाव का भी स्वागत करता हूं और मंत्रीजी से कहना चाहूंगा कि प्राथमिक तौर पर उन जनजातियों के लिए, जिन्हें आप वहां से निकालने का काम करेंगे, उनकी सुरक्षा के लिए ...(व्यवधान) काम करें। आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। श्री धर्म वीर गांधी ( पटियाला ) :  उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, कोल आबंटन के संबंध में जो नया बिल आया है, उस पर मैं अपनी बात रखना चाहता हूं। सबसे पहली बात यह है कि दो साल सुप्रीम कोर्ट की लगातार दखलअंदाजी के बाद पिछला आबंटन रद्द हुआ और उसकी जगह नया कानून लाया गया है। यह इस देश की जरूरत है, क्योंकि हमें कोयला चाहिए, बिजली चाहिए। इसका हम स्वागत करते हैं, परन्तु इसका आबंटन पारदर्शी तरीके से हो, इसके लिए हम सरकार से अपेक्षा करते हैं। मेरा सबसे बड़ा मुद्दा यह है कि आदिवासी लोग, चाहे झारखंड, छत्तीसगढ़ या देश के किसी दूसरे प्रदेश में हैं, उनको जल, जंगल, जमीन का अधिकार प्राप्त है। वे सदियों से वहां पुश्त दर पुश्त रह रहे हैं। जब इन कोयला खदानों की नीलामी की जाये, चाहे वह कारपोरेट सैक्टर इंडियन हो या फॉरेन कारपोरेट सैक्टर हो, उनके लिए ऐसे प्रावधान रखने चाहिए, ताकि वहां रहने वाले आदिवासी भाई, जो पुश्त दर पुशत रहने वाले लोग हैं, उनके हितों की रक्षा हो सके। यह देखने में आया है कि जहां से भी लोगों को विस्थापित किया गया है, चाहे वह पंजाब में भाखड़ा डैम, व्यास डैम, चंडीगढ़ डैम, चंडीगढ़ शहर या नर्मदा घाटी जैसी परियोजनाओं में रहने वाले लोगों के पुनर्वास का कार्यक्रम है, उसकी हमेशा अवहेलना होती है। वे लोग अभी तक सेट नहीं हो पाये हैं। मुझे शंका है कि जो नया कारपोरेट सैक्टर आने वाला है, बड़ी-बड़ी कम्पनियां आने वाली हैं, उन पर सख्ती से ये क्लाज डाले जायें कि इन्हें उन लोगों की शिक्षा, रोजगार, सेहत और सम्मानजनक वेतन देने का प्रावधान किया जाये। यदि उनकी जिंदगी को बढ़िया बढ़ाने के लिए कोई सिस्टम न बनाया गया तो जैसे पहले खान-खदानों के विस्थापितों लोगों के साथ पहले होता आया है, वैसा इनके साथ होगा। मैं पीयूष गोयल जी से विनती करता हूं कि वे इस बिल में ऐसे सख्त प्रावधान रखें, ताकि हमारे आदिवासी, दलित भाइयों के साथ अच्छा व्यवहार हो सके, उनकी जिंदगी एक अच्छे रास्ते पर चल सकें और वे उसका फायदा ले सकें। धन्यवाद। श्री शरद त्रिपाठी ( संत कबीर नगर ): माननीय उपाध्यक्ष महोदय, मैं सबसे पहले आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी और कुशल मंत्री जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहता हूं कि इतनी लंबित कुव्यवस्थाओं को इतने कम समय में हल करने के लिए विधेयक लाए हैं। पूरा देश जानता है कि 1993 से लेकर 2014 तक यूपीए सरकार की गलत नीतियों के कारण देश कितनी कुव्यवस्थाओं से जकड़ा रहा है। देश को कितना बड़ा झटका लगा है जब देश को इनकी गलत नीतियों के कारण 1800 करोड़ रुपए का आयात बिना किसी कारण के करना पड़ रहा है। इनकी गलत नीतियों के कारण बैंकों का 80,000 करोड़ रुपया बर्बादी की कगार पर हा देश को 80,000 करोड़ रुपए का नुकसान उठाना पड़ रहा है जिसका फायदा देश के आम जनमानस को होना था। अभी माननीय सदस्य श्रमिकों की बात कह रहे थे। वह यूपीए के युवा हैं, वह राज्य मंत्री भी रहे हैं और अच्छे घराने से हैं। इन लोगों के मुंह से श्रमिकों की बात अच्छी नहीं लगती है। हम लोगों ने श्रमिकों की चिंता की है। हमारी सरकार ने हमेशा गांव, झोंपड़ी, मजदूरों, किसानों की चिंता की है। यही कारण है कि आज हम तुरंत द्रवित होकर यह विधेयक लाए हैं। हमारे देश की सबसे बड़ी समस्या बिजली की है। इस देश में पहली सरकार की कुव्यवस्था के कारण बिजली परियोजनाएं लंबित पड़ी रही हैं। इस समस्या का निदान इस विधेयक के द्वारा होने जा रहा है। बिजली होगी तो उद्योग बढ़ेगा, उद्योग बढ़ेगा तो रोजगार बढ़ेगा, रोजगार बढ़ेगा तो गांव के गरीब श्रमिक के यहां चिराग जलेगा, उसके घर में रोटी बनेगी। आज श्रमिकों की चिंता की जा रही है। कांग्रेस या यूपीए सरकार की गलत नीतियों के कारण 1973 से लेकर अब तक 24 घटनाएं श्रमिकों के साथ हो चुकी हैं। सुबह जो श्रमिक यह सोचकर निकलते थे कि शाम तक घर वापस आ जाएंगे, अपने परिवार के बच्चों के लिए खिलौना लाएंगे, दो जून की रोटी लाएंगे लेकिन पूर्व सरकार की गलत नीतियों के कारण इन मजदूरों की खदान में दबकर मृत्यु हो गई। आज तक इनकी चिंता यूपीए सरकार को नहीं हुई है और आज श्रमिकों की चिंता की बात की जाती है। ऊर्जा की चर्चा हो रही है, कोयले की चर्चा हो रही है। कोयले में ऊर्जा भी है और कालिख भी है। इस ऊर्जा का लाभ कैसे देश को मिले इसके लिए हमारी लोकप्रिय सरकार बहुत कम समय में यह विधेयक लाई है और कालिख इन लोगों के लिए छोड़ दी है, इनके जिम्मे कर दी है। हमारे राष्ट्रीय नेता श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी कहा करते थे कि हमें हमेशा गांव के गरीब की चिंता सताती है। उन्होंने अपनी पीड़ा एक रैली में व्यक्त करते हुए कहा था- ज़ुल्म तो हम गरीबों पे हुआ करते हैं 

ऊंचे महलों से तो आग भी कतराती है, 

मकानात् तो हम गरीबों के जला करते हैं, 

इस मुल्क की कैसी सिसायत है, 

ए बर्बादे वतन कि यहां ईद के दिन भी कत्ल हुआ करते हैं। इंकलाब आएगा, जरूर आएगा, ऐसा हम नहीं यूपीए और यूपीए के साथी लोग कहा करते थे लेकिन हमारी छः महीने की सरकार ने देश को इंकलाब लाकर दिखा दिया है। आज माननीय सदस्य ने आदरणीय मोदी जी के बारे में 56 इंच सीने की बात कही है। मैं विनम्रता से माननीय सदस्य से कहना चाहता हूं कि जब सुभाष चन्द्र बोस और भगत सिंह की बात कहते हैं तो अच्छा लगता है। क्रांतिकारियों और महापुरुषों की बात कहते हैं तो अच्छा लगता है कम से कम एक बार तो अच्छे मन से आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी के बारे में सोचें, जिन्होंने पहली बार आजादी के बाद से ऐसा काम किया है कि जिस देश को कोई समर्थक नहीं मिलता था, आज 173 देश के लोगों ने माननीय प्रधामंत्री द्वारा लाए गए प्रस्ताव पर समर्थन किया है। हमारे आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने अपना 56 इंच का सीना मजबूत नहीं किया है, बल्कि पूरे देश का सीना विश्व में मजबूत किया है। इसके लिए यूपीए को बधाई देनी चाहिए। आज चर्चा के लिए चर्चा की जा रही है। इस विधेयक का स्वागत होना चाहिए था लेकिन इस पर अपनी कालिख को छुपाने के लिए चर्चा लाई जा रही है। मैं आदरणीय पीयूष गोयल जी को बधाई देना चाहता हूं कि इतने कम समय में आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री जी के कुशल नेतृत्व में यह विधेयक लाए हैं, यह देश के लिए बहुत महत्वपूर्ण साबित होगा। फिक्की जैसे संगठनों ने इसका स्वागत किया है, देश की औद्योगिक कंपनियों ने स्वागत किया है, बिरला जी ने स्वागत किया है, बहुत घरानों ने स्वागत किया है। माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी ने ‘मेक इन इंडिया’ का नारा दिया है, उस नारे को सार्थक करके रहेंगे। धन्यवाद। 15.00 hrs. 

 

SHRI ADHIR RANJAN CHOWDHURY ( BAHARAMPUR ):  Sir, I would like to add a few lines to the ongoing discussion. Already the Minister has been assigned to produce  one billion tonnes of coal by the year 2019. For this, to achieve that goal, he is adopting the ways and means which is not in congruence with the national interest. That is why, I am warning the hon. Minister that you should not do anything in haste. I am hailing from a State where in the year 1778 the first coal mining operation was started. I know that I have a severe constraint of time. So, I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister provided he is intending to do it. Hon. Minister, I am drawing you attention to the fact that you are planning to allocate the national resources through auction. The reason why I am asking this question is that the Ministry of Coal tried to auction the “C” Block in Jharkhand. Shri Nishikant Dubey is sitting beside you. In February this year, when it tried to auction, only two private companies submitted bids for one block. That should be kept in your mind. Second, whether this kind of auction would entail the tariff of electricity. That needs to be considered seriously. I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister to clause 4 (2) (b) which says: