. Later on, the informant came to know that the

 appellant resident of village Dhanpura had induced her to go

 with him. A mobile call came from the victim who reported that

 Guddu had handed over to her to one Mukhtar and Mukhtar

 forcefully married with her and established physical relation

 with her. Mukhtar was in Chandigarh. She further disclosed that

 on promise of marriage, Guddu boarded her on train and got her

 married with Mukhtar. The informant suspected that the victim

 has been thrown into flesh trade. The written report is Ext. 1. 3. On recovery, the victim was medically examined

 on 03.12.2011 and her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. was

 recorded on 07.12.2011. In her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C., the victim-girl disclosed that three months back, she had

 come to the house of her uncle (Khala). In the market, Md.

 Guddu @ Manowwar Hussain (appellant) met her. Thereafter,

 the appellant used to meet her off and on and stated that he is an
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 3/13 Advocate Clerk in the Court. Appellant further expressed that he

 loves her and promised to marry with her. The appellant

 provided her a mobile phone and used to talk with her on mobile

 phone. On 09.11.2011, appellant took her to Islampur on a bus.

 At Islampur, another Guddu met. Thereafter, the three took meal

 in a hotel and the appellant took her to his village Dhanpura

 where father of the appellant was also there. The father asked

 the appellant to take her to the house of her uncle. Then the

 appellant took her to the house of his uncle. In the night, the

 appellant was in physical relation with her. Thereafter, the

 appellant with the help of Irfan got two new suits for the victim

 and took her to Pachim Pali. Again, the second "Guddu"

 accompanied her and took her to Kishanganj railway station and

 from there they boarded Mahananda express for Delhi and from

 Delhi to Chandigarh. At Chandigarh, they reached at the house

 of Babalu. Babalu had three wives and all were engaged in

 prostitution. One Sahnaz, a girl disclosed to the victim that on

 the pretext of love, the victim was brought there for flesh trade.

 Thereafter, anyhow, the victim escaped to the house of her

 cousin Amir who was in Chandigarh itself. 4. After investigation, the police submitted charge-

 sheet and the appellant was put on trial which resulted in

 conviction as stated above. Hence, this appeal.
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 4/13 5. Mr. Ram Pravesh Kumar, learned counsel for the

 appellant submits that there is unexplained delay of about one

 week in lodging the FIR. The victim had lodged a case under Section 498(A) of the Indian Penal Code after marriage with the

 appellant. Hence, she was married wife of the appellant. In the

 circumstance, the offenes for which charges have been framed

 are not attracted. The father of the appellant had executed a

 registered sale deed transferring his ten Kathas of land in favour

 of the victim on 17.12.2011 vide Ext. A. The victim was

 recovered from her own house on 02.12.2011. Hence, the

 allegation of kidnapping etc. appears to be palpably false when

 matrimonial discord started, the false case was lodged just to

 pressurize. 6. To contra, Mr. Zeyaul Hoda, learned Additional

 Public Prosecutor contends that the victim-girl as P.W.3 has

 consistently supported the aforesaid allegation against the

 appellant and she has specifically stated that marriage with the

 appellant, subsequent to the offence, was a sear fraud as the

 appellant never remained in matrimonial relationship. Moreover,

 the act of transfer of ten Kathas of land was also a fraudulent act

 as the said land was already sold to someoneles and just to save

 the skin from the present criminal case, those transactions were

 brought on the record. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 5/13 7. P.W. 1 Gulakha Khatoon, the mother of the

 victim-girl has supported the prosecution case as hearsay

 witness, what was disclosed to her by her daughter. P.W. 2 Jasimuddin is father of the

 prosecutrix and informant of the case. He has supported his

 statement in the first written report

 P.W. 4 Dr. Urmila Kumari and P.W. 5 Dr.

 Rafat Hussain were members of the Medical Board, who had

 examined the victim. They noticed hymen of the victim

 ruptured. Since the victim was examined on

 03.12.2011 much after the date of offence, hence, the finding of

 the Doctor that vaginal swab did not show any spermatozoa was

 obvious. The Doctor's Team assessed the age of the prosecutrix

 between fifteen to seventeen years. P.W. 6 Muzaffar Hussain and P.W. 8

 Rafique Alam are hostile witnesses. P.W. 7 Surya Deo Dubey and P.W. 9 Madan

 Gopal are Investigating Officer of the case. They have supported

 the investigation done by them. P.W. 9 had collected the school document of

 the victim in support of her date of birth wherein date of birth of

 the victim is entered as 01.01.1999. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 6/13 P.W. 9 is specific that he had collected

 school certificate of the victim wherein her date of birth is

 entered as 01.01.1999. The said document is available with the

 case diary. There is no suggestion to any of the prosecution

 witnesses that the witnesses have not deposed correctly about

 the date of birth of the prosecutrix or that the said school

 document is not a genuine document. Since the prosecution has brought on the

 record the best document in support of date of birth of the

 victim, hence, it is established that on the date of occurrence, the

 victim was a minor i.e. of age incapable of giving consent. 8. The defence examined D.W. 1 Farid Alam, who

 is a witness of formal nature and has proved the sale deed

 executed by the father of the appellant in favour of the victim-

 girl on 17.12.2011 vide Ext. A.

 D.W. 2 Gulam Sarwar had deposed that the

 victim and one Saddam Hussain were wandering together in the

 public place and the police took them to the police station. The

 police report is marked as Ext. B. Ext. B is a document dated

 06.06.2015 submitted by the Officer-in-Charge of Mahila Police

 Station wherein it is mentioned that the victim and Md. Saddam

 were noticed together on 08.01.2015. Both were taken to the

 police station and both disclosed that they were meeting with
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 7/13 each other since long as both were in love with each other. This

 act of the victim is a subsequent act of years after the alleged

 crime committed against her. Hence, it has no adverse effect on

 the crime alleged nor the subsequent act of the victim is any

 offence in the eyes of law. 9. P.W. 3 the victim-girl, examined on 19.10.2016,

 stated her age as twenty years and disclosed that the occurrence

 took place five years and two months back at about 09:00 a.m.

 She was going to Girls High School at Khagra Karbala to take

 tuition. There appellant Guddu met her and said that he is an

 Advocate Clerk in Kishanganj Court and thereafter he stared

 talking with her and pretended for marriage. On the date of

 occurrence, on inducement of Guddu, she along with Guddu,

 took a bus for Islampur. At Islampur, friend of the appellant

 (another Guddu) met them. All took their meal in a hotel. Then

 the appellant took her to his house, locked her in a room. When

 the father of the appellant protested, the appellant took her to the

 house of his uncle in village Dhanushna and there forcefully

 ravished her. In the next morning, the appellant telephonically

 called to his maternal uncle Irfan along with two new suits for

 the victim and then they proceeded for Pachim Pali where

 another Guddu met them. The appellant asked her to go along

 with another Guddu of Islampur and promised that as soon as he
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 8/13 would get money, he would marry with the victim. Thereafter

 Guddu of Islampur took her to Chandigarh by train. At

 Chandigarh, Mukhtar, Sahnaz, Babalu were there. Babalu had

 three wives. Sahnaz disclosed to the victim that the victim has

 been trapped as the place was a brothel. The victim was further

 informed that she has already been sold away. For three to four

 days the victim was at Chandigarh. Thereafter, she phoned to

 her father. Then her cousin with the help of police took her out.

 Thereafter, she has described about her medical examination

 and statement before the Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

 In the cross-examination, she stated that after the occurrence,

 the appellant married with her on the pressure of people. Father

 of the appellant executed a registered sale deed in respect of ten

 Kathas of his land in favour of the victim which was a sham

 transaction as the said land was already sold to someone else.

 The appellant never remained with the victim after marriage.

 P.W. 2 has also said that after return from Chandigarh, the local

 MLA and others forcefully got the victim married with the

 appellant. 10. There is no cross-examination to these

 witnesses i.e. P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 or to any of the prosecution

 witness to disbelieve what they have stated in their examination-

 in-chief. Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 9/13 11. It is well settled by a catena of judicial

 pronouncements that while appreciating the evidence of the

 victim of sexual assault, it should be treated on a par with the

 evidence of an injured witness. The reason is simple that a girl

 or a woman in the traditional bound non-permissive society of

 India would be extremely reluctant even to admit that any

 incident which is likely to reflect on her chastity had ever

 occurred. She would be conscious of the danger of being

 ostracized by the society. When, in face of these factors, the

 crime is brought to light, there is inbuilt assurance that the

 charge is genuine rather than fabricated. In normal course, the

 Indian woman has tendency to conceal such offence even before

 her family members much less before public or before the

 police. Therefore, testimony of the prosecutrix to some extent,

 stands on higher pedestral than that of an injured witness. Corroboration is not an imperative component

 of judicial credence in every case of rape. Refusal to act on the

 testimony of the victim of sexual assault, in absence of

 corroboration as a rule, is adding insults to the injury. If totality

 of the circumstances appearing on the record of the case

 discloses that the prosecutrix does not have strong motive to

 falsely implicate the person charged, the Court should ordinarily

 have no hesitation in accepting her evidence as no self-
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 10/13 respecting women would come forward to make a self

 humiliating statement in casual manner. Reference may be made

 to State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors. reported in

 (1996)2 SCC 384 and Motilal Vs. State of M.P. reported in

 (2008)11 SCC 20. At the same time, in Raju & Ors. Vs. State of

 Madhya Pradesh reported in (2008)15 SCC 133, the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court cautioned by saying that no doubt, rape causes

 greater distress and humiliation to the victim, but at the same

 time a false allegation of rape can cause equal distress,

 humiliation and damage to the accused as well. Therefore, the

 accused must also be protected against the possibility of false

 implication. The Court should carefully see that the prosecutrix

 is consistent in her statement right from the starting point till the

 end, namely, at the time when the witness makes the initial

 statement and ultimately before the Court. The prosecutrix

 should be in a position to withstand the cross-examination of

 any length and howsoever strenuous it may be and under no

 circumstance should give room for any doubt as to the factum of

 the occurrence, the person involved, as well as the sequence of

 it. If other witnesses are there, there must be consistent match

 with the version of every other witnesses. If the testimony of the

 prosecutrix withstands the aforesaid test, she would be treated as
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 11/13 a "sterling witness" and no corroboration is needed to base the

 conviction on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix. Reference

 may be made to Rai Sandeep @ Deepu Vs. State (NCT of

 Delhi ) reported in (2012)8 SCC 21. 12. In the case on hand, the prosecutrix has

 consistently supported what had happened with her as referred

 above . There is no cross-examination to doubt the

 trustworthiness of the prosecutrix or to have any inclining of

 motive for false implication of the appellant. The medical

 opinion is that hymen of the prosecutrix was ruptured and non-

 finding of spermatozoa was natural as the victim was examined

 much after the commission of the crime alleged. The prosecutrix

 is specific that she got married with the appellant under pressure

 of the people and that marriage was itself a fraud as appellant

 never maintained the relationship. The land transferred in favour

 of the victim was a sham transaction. The prosecution has

 successfully proved that on the date of occurrence, the

 prosecutrix was a minor. Hence, her consent and no consent was

 immaterial. Since the victim was a minor below eighteen years

 of age on the date of occurrence and she has claimed that she

 was ravished against her will, the offence under Section 375 of

 the Indian Penal Code stands proved against the appellant. The

 prosecution evidence is that appellant intentionally had handed
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 12/13 over the victim to one Guddu who in turn carried her to

 Chandigarh and put her in a place of prostitution. Hence, the

 offence under Section 372 of the Indian Penal Code also stands

 proved against the appellant. Likewise, the prosecution has

 successfully proved the charge under Section 366(A) of the

 Indian Penal Code as the victim a girl below eighteen years was

 induced to leave her house knowingly that she would be forced

 to illicit intercourse with another person. 13. On the basis of material on the record, I do not

 find any merit in the submission of the learned counsel for the

 appellant that the delay in lodging the first information report is

 an unexplained delay or it has in any way caused prejudiced to

 the appellants. The subsequent act of fictitious marriage or

 institution of a case under Section 498(A) of the Indian Penal

 Code would not minimize the effect of the present criminal act

 committed earlier. The victim was not cross-examined on this

 point at all nor any other prosecution witnesses were tested on

 this point. 14. Since the learned trial Court has awarded

 minimum punishment prescribed for offence under Section

 376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code, hence, the sentence, under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, requires no interference.

 The learned trial Judge has awarded maximum punishment
 Patna High Court CR. APP (SJ) No.228 of 2019 dt.09-07-2021 13/13 prescribed for offence under Sections 366(A) and 372 of the

 Indian Penal Code, however, the sentences have been ordered to

 run concurrently. Hence, no prejudice is going to be caused to

 the appellant. Accordingly, the Court declines to interfere with

 the order of sentence. 15. In the result, I do not find any infirmity with

 the judgment of the trial Court. Accordingly, this appeal stands

 dismissed as devoid of any merit. (Birendra Kumar, J)

 Kundan/-