Earlier this week, the Delhi High Court directed Google to suspend 15 Google Form URLs used to collect the information of people interested in applying for Starbucks franchises, even though the company doesn’t have a franchise model in India.

The interim application was filed in the retail giant’s ongoing case against the National Internet Exchange of India for registering trademark-infringing websites that hawked fake Starbucks franchisee schemes.

“In the opinion of this Court, the plaintiffs would be entitled to the relief they seek in this application, on account of not only that these Google Forms are being posted by imposters in order to elicit information relating to Starbucks franchise (which do not exist in India) as well as seeking private information and data from the general public, which cannot be countenanced,” Justice Anish Dayal observed on January 22nd. Google was also directed to provide Starbucks with the user details of the Google Form registrants within two weeks, with the information provided subject to Google’s internal policies.

Starbucks is also at liberty to file an affidavit before the High Court listing out any more such Google Form URLs, which Google can suspend too. If Google has reservations about suspending the URL, they can inform Starbucks which can then move the High Court for relief.

During hearings last monsoon, Starbucks argued that since it doesn’t have franchises in India, any website representing itself as such is both trademark-infringing and harmful to consumers. Starbucks added that platforms have obligations under India’s platform regulation laws, the IT Rules, 2021 , to make “reasonable efforts” to cause their users not to transmit information that “deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of the message or knowingly and intentionally communicates any misinformation or information which is patently false and untrue or misleading in nature”.

Justice C. Hari Shankar, who was presiding over the case at the time, observed that while Starbucks’ logic was “reasonable”, this provision of the IT Rules was “shrouded in obscurity and would be a fertile ground for litigation and uncertainty in the mind of the public”. Or as Justice Shankar put it, “there has often been debate, by the intermediaries, as to the efforts which would be sufficient to be regarded as ‘reasonable’”.

To help determine platform liability in these cases, Justice Shankar subsequently directed the Indian government to file an affidavit clarifying its understanding of reasonable efforts, or the principles to be kept in mind by authorities determining reasonable efforts. Subsequent orders in the case reveal few details of what the government’s stand was.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event