1. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiffs for permanent
injunction, damages for infringement of trade mark WORLD BOOK,
passing off, dilution, unfair competition, delivery up, and rendition of
account or damages against the defendant. Along with the suit,
plaintiff also filed an application under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 being
I.A.No.8971/2013. 2. The suit alongwith said interim application was listed before
court on 27th May, 2013. After hearing, detailed ex-parte order was CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 1 of 57 passed restraining the defendant, its directors, officers, agents,
servants, representatives and assigns etc. from using the trade mark
WORLD BOOK or any other mark that is deceptively similar to the
plaintiffs' trade mark WORLD BOOK or any other mark that is
deceptively similar to the plaintiffs' registered trade mark WORLD
BOOK in respect of printing/publishing of books and other reference
materials and educational products, either in print or in software
versions as also on their website. 3. Upon service of interim order, the defendant filed its written
statement and contested the prayer of interim order passed on 27th
May, 2013. The defendant also filed an application under Order 39
Rule 4 for vacation of an ex-parte interim order being I.A.
No.11342/2013. Another application bearing I.A. No.12459/2014 was
also filed by defendant under Order 3 Rule 4 CPC seeking certain
directions against the counsel of the plaintiffs. By this order, I propose
to decide the three pending applications. The case of the plaintiffs 4. The plaintiff No.1, a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of Delaware, USA, is a publisher of encyclopaedias and
other reference materials that markets hundreds of reference and
educational products in over thirty countries worldwide in more than
twelve languages. The plaintiff No.2, a company based in India, is
responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of
goods/services under the trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK. The
claim is made by the plaintiffs that they are the largest selling print
encyclopaedia in the world and well known in the business of CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 2 of 57 publishing encyclopaedias and other educational reference materials
since its adoption in the year 1917. Plaintiffs' WORLD BOOK
ENCYCLOPEDIA is considered as number one selling print
encyclopaedia in the world. 4.1. In addition to its use as a trademark, the mark WORLD BOOK
forms part of the corporate identity and trading style of the plaintiff
No.1 as also of its subsidiaries/affiliate companies throughout the
world and their encyclopaedias and other reference materials under
the trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK are available in print,
software versions as also online and are accessible at
worldbookonline.com. 4.2. Plaintiffs have obtained registrations of trademark WORLD
BOOK in a number of countries worldwide, covering twenty seven
countries. In India, the plaintiffs are the registered proprietor of the
trademark WORLD BOOK in respect of a wide variety of
goods/services, as detailed in para 5 of the plaint that are valid and
subsisting as on date. On the basis of the said registrations, the
plaintiffs have the exclusive right to the use of the aforesaid
trademarks in India. The products and services of the plaintiffs' under
the trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK have been commercially
available in India since 1993. They have also been advertising and
promoting trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK in various countries
including India, through print and electronic media including
magazines, television, and the internet. It is averred that the plaintiffs
own and have registered over 100 domain names, some of them are
mentioned in para 12 of the plaint. Also, there are various third party CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 3 of 57 websites that provide reference to the plaintiffs trademark/trade name
WORLD BOOK and its encyclopaedias and other reference materials
made available thereunder. The details are mentioned in Para 12 of
the plaint. 5. It is averred against the defendant that the defendant is a
company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and is
engaged in the business of publication and publishing books, etc. In
the first week of September, 2012, plaintiffs discovered that the
defendant had registered a company in the name of World Book
Company Private Limited that contains the dominant and distinctive
element of the plaintiffs' trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK. On
12th September, 2012, the plaintiffs sent a cease and desist notice to
the defendant calling upon it not to use its registered trademark/trade
name WORLD BOOK as part of their corporate name. However, it is
stated that the said notice was not replied to by the defendant and
subsequently, it was also discovered that the defendant had
registered the domain name www.worldbookcompany.in also
website, which is stated to be deceptively and/or confusingly similar
to plaintiffs' trademark/trade name WORLD BOOK, including its
domain name worldbook.com. 5.1. By using the plaintiffs' proprietary trademark/trade name
WORLD BOOK and by adopting the trademark WORLD BOOK as
part of its corporate name, the defendant has committed an
infringement of the registered trademark of the plaintiffs. The act of
the defendant has resulted in deceiving the members of the trade and
public at large into believing that the offending products/services sold CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 4 of 57 and offered for sale by the defendant have some connection with the
plaintiffs, whereas in fact, no such connection exists. Since the
defendant is in the same trade of publication of books, etc. as the
plaintiffs, the public is likely to be attracted towards the defendant's
products sold under the trade name WORLD BOOK and inclined to
purchase the same under a mistaken belief and impression that they
are buying the merchandise of the plaintiffs and/or their licensees and
they have some association of any kind with the plaintiffs which in
fact is untrue. 6. The case of the defendant in the written statement is that the
words "World Book" are commonly used words found in the English
dictionary and no one can have exclusive right to use these words
which are not coined. The said words are within the public domain
cannot be claimed as exclusive proprietorship. The defendant's logo
has no resemblance to that of plaintiffs' trademark. The defendant
prints and publishes books unlike that of plaintiffs. The plaintiff has no
business in India. The documents filed by plaintiffs do not show any
advertisement in India. The plaintiffs are unknown in India, the
website owned by the plaintiffs i.e. www.worldbookindia.com does
not mention about the books. 6.1. The defendant is involved in publication of novels and has
created goodwill of their own in the market. The defendant's website
www.worldbookcompany.in also features the other websites
wbcbooks.com, wbcmart.com and ebukk.com in its webpage clearly
indicating WBC as its brand name and the name of the website of the CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 5 of 57 defendant is registered in the domain registry after a thorough
search. Thus, there is no confusion and deception. The defendants
are not WORLD BOOK but WORLD BOOK COMPANY PVT LTD. registered under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. The plaintiffs only
deal in publishing encyclopaedia, therefore the question of any
resemblance does not arise. Particularly no evidence is produced by
the plaintiffs about their user in India except only a few invoices which
do not indicate any kind of popularity or indication of advertisement in
India. The plaintiff No.2 was registered in India only after the
defendant registered its company. While the plaintiffs have never
published or printed their books in India, the growing popularity of the
defendant's work rather the plaintiffs with an intent to ride on the
goodwill created in the market. The plaintiffs are attempting to
destroy the business of the defendant. 7. As there is no connection whatsoever between two types of
business activities, the question of infringement does not arise. Due
to the ex parte ad interim injunction passed against the defendant
had to suffer extreme loss of reputation, goodwill and financial loss
which the plaintiffs are liable to compensate. The directors of the
company were subjected to humiliation before the investors and were
subjected to debt whereas the defendants were merely publishing
books with their own effort, creativity and hard work and were
progressing extremely well. The plaintiffs undoubtedly have ill motive
to extort money from the defendant company and have illegally
claimed exclusive rights over the words "WORLD BOOK" is a gross CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 6 of 57 abuse of the process of law. 8. It has also been stated that the plaintiffs first attempt to register
the words "WORLD BOOK" as per Application No 574917, failed as
Status- Abandoned, as per records and subsequent attempt to
register the words WORLD BOOK was later registered as unopposed
with a condition and limitation, i.e. disclaimer imposed to the effect
that the registered proprietor shall have no exclusive rights over the
word BOOK separately. Thus, the condition and limitation of the
word "BOOK" would show that as per Section 17 of the Act, the
words "WORLD BOOK" are common and no monopoly can be
granted. The word "BOOK" has to be ignored while comparing the
mark. Under these circumstances, the interim order passed by the
Court is liable to be vacated, as no case is made out by the plaintiffs
against the defendant who has already obtained the registration of its
corporate name under the Companies Act . 9. In case submissions of both parties are examined carefully, the
following are the main issues which are to be decided at this interim
stage: Goodwill and Reputation 10. Learned counsel for the defendant argued that there are
innumerable "WORLD BOOK" in combination used worldwide by
different owners and therefore it is impossible for the defendant to
say which "WORLD BOOK" the plaintiffs represent. The words
"WORLD BOOK" are common English words widely used worldwide
by different owners and very general in nature and therefore
monopoly rights by one owner cannot be accorded. The plaintiffs
Trade Mark in America clearly shows the two words with a Globe
device. It is completely incorrect to say that the plaintiff's have any
rights over the words in combination. The plaintiffs have tried to
mislead this Court by mentioning in their interim application that they
have been given rights in combination which is absolutely false and
misleading. It has been argued that dictionary words cannot be
monopolized and directly referring/defining the product cannot be
anyone's sole exclusivity i.e. world of books. The learned counsel for the defendant has also argued that the
word "WORLD" is also a generic term and widely used by several
hundreds of different owners. Some of the trade marks registered in
India with the word "WORLD" are - WORLDTECH, WORLDCARD
INTERNATIONAL, WORLDLINK, WORLD SERIES, WORLD
TRAVELLER, WORLD CUP etc. Some of the trade marks registered CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 8 of 57 around the world with the word "WORLD" are WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION, WORLD CUP FOOTBALL etc. These words are in
public domain for decades. It is also argued that the WORLD BOOK
in combination is used worldwide by different owners: 11. It is alleged by him that the words WORLD BOOK when written
in reverse i.e. BOOK WORLD is also owned by innumerable different
owners worldwide. The words "WORLD SCHOOL" similarly are two
generic words combined together to form a meaning and directly CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 9 of 57 referring to what they do therefore open to the world for use and are
being used. An example of WORLD SCHOOL is given below: 12. It is rightly held in many cases decided by the courts that
Infringement of a registered trademark is caused by the use of the
mark which is identical or nearly resembling to that of registered
trademark in respect of the same, similar or different goods in terms
of provisions of the Act. In that sense, the remedy of infringement is
statutorily conferred upon the registered proprietor. On the other
hand, passing off action is an action in common law which is
essentially the protection of goodwill and reputation which the person
has created by virtue of carrying out of business activities under a
particular name and style or under a brand name for that matter and
the said action is an action in deceit which is to prevent any
misrepresentation caused amongst public. The said
misrepresentation may be in the form of innocent representation or
deliberate representation which is immaterial in the case of passing CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 10 of 57 off. Actual deception is not required for the party who is infringing the
legal rights of the rightful person even using the name innocently. In
fact, for the purpose of deciding the case of infringement of trade
mark, the plaintiff has not to establish at the initial stage that such
adoption was in bad faith. Infringement 13. I have heard learned counsel for both the parties who have
made their submissions at bar. It is necessary to discuss Section 29 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 that envisages the law relating to
infringement of a registered trademark and Section 28 of the Act that
provides for exclusive rights granted by virtue of registration. The said
provisions read as under:- 14. By mere reading of these provisions, it is clear that a
registered trademark is infringed by a person who not being a
registered proprietor, uses in the course of trade a mark which is CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 14 of 57 identical or deceptively similar in relation to the goods or services
which are identical or similar to that in respect of which the
trademark is registered without the permission of the trademark
owner. 15. In order to establish infringement, the main ingredients of Section 29 of the Act are that the plaintiff's mark must be registered
under the Act; the defendant's mark is identical with or deceptively
similar to the registered trade mark; and the defendant's use of the
mark is in the course of trade in respect of the goods covered by the
registered trade mark. The rival marks are to be compared as a
whole. Where two rival marks are identical, it is not necessary for
the plaintiff to prove further that the use of defendant's trademark is
likely to deceive and cause confusion as the registration shows the
title of the registered proprietor and the things speak for themselves.
In an infringement action, once a mark is used as indicating
commercial origin by the defendant, no amount of added matter
intended to show the true origin of the goods can effect the question.
If Court finds that the defendant's mark is closely, visually and
phonetically similar, even then no further proof is necessary. 16. The following are the judgments which are relevant to be
referred for the purpose of infringement of the trade mark: ii. In the case of American Home Products v. Mac
Laboratories AIR 1986 SC 137 in Para 36 it was held as under: iii. In the case of National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co. AIR
1971 SC 898 at page 903 it was held as under: iv. In the case of M/s Avis International Ltd. vs. M/s Avi
Footwear Industries and another, reported in AIR 1991 Delhi
22,the relevant paras of which read as under: 17. In the present case, it is the admitted position that the plaintiff
No.1 is the registered proprietor of the trade mark WORLD BOOK in
respect of wide variety goods/services. Detailed information of the
same are given hereinbelow: 18. The plaintiffs have obtained registrations of the trade mark
WORLD BOOK in a number of countries worldwide, including in CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 18 of 57 Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Egypt, European Union
(covering 27 countries), India, Ireland, Indonesia, Italy, New Zealand,
Singapore, Spain, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of
America and in India. 19. There are various 3rd parties website which provides reference
to the Plaintiffs Trade Mark / trade name WORLD BOOK. These 3rd
parties' websites also sell the plaintiffs WORLD BOOK encyclopedias
and other reference materials online in India. Some of these websites
are:- 20. There is a material placed on record to show that the products
and services under the Trade Mark WORLD BOOK have been
commercially available in India from the year 1993. Plaintiffs have
been extensively advertising and promoting its products under the
Trade Mark WORLD BOOK in various countries of the world
including India through print and electronic media and through the
internet. The plaintiffs own and have registered over 100
domain names such as worldbook.com, worldbookonline.com,
worldbookindia.com, worldbk.com etc. The products and services are
available online also through its website. Large numbers of
documents are filed by the plaintiffs in order to establish the use of
the mark WORLD BOOK in India and abroad. 21. In the case of The Himalaya Drug Company v. M/s. S.B.L.
Limited, 2013 (53) PTC 1 (Del), where the issue was whether 'LIV' is
generic and common to the trade as the medicines in question
manufactured and marketed by both the parties are meant for
treatment of liver, it was observed as under: 22. The defendant is in similar type of business of publishing
books. The defendant who is in the publishing business cannot say
that they were not aware about the existence of the plaintiffs'
products and services under the Trade Mark WORLD BOOK in
today's age of internet. Under Section 29(5) of the Act, in case the
registered trademark is used by a party, who is not the registered
proprietor, as a dominant and essential feature of the corporate name
or trading style, it amounts to infringement. Passing Off 23. The fundamental difference that passing off is an action which
essentially protects goodwill and not the unregistered trademark has CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 21 of 57 been explained in the case of Star Industrial Co. Ltd. v. Yap Kwee
Kor [1976] Fleet Street Patent Law Reports 256 decided by Privy
Council comprising Lord Diplock in his speech wherein it has been
observed that passing off is an action which is to preserve the
goodwill of a person and not aimed at to protect an unregistered
trademark. In the words of Lord Diplock, it has been observed as
under:- 24. From the reading of the said observation of Lord Diplock's
speech, it is clear that the gist of passing action is goodwill and
reputation which is sought to be protected and thereby
misrepresentation is prevented in the course of trade. It is altogether
different matter that misrepresentation may include the use of mark in
the course of trade and ultimate effect of passing off action in most of
the cases is protection of the trademark anyway, but the heart and
soul of the passing off action has always been protection of goodwill
and reputation aimed at to prevent misrepresentation. 25. One of the essential ingredients is goodwill. The classic case of
passing off as it existed since its genesis always insist the existence
of goodwill of a merchant in order to give him a locally enforceable
right to sue for passing off. This has been explained by Kerly's in his
book called Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names (Fourteenth
Edition) (South Asian Edition 2007), wherein the concept of goodwill
has always been categorized as local in character and the learned
author observed thus:- 26. This concept of goodwill and the insistence of localized
business has been traditional concept of passing off which
sometimes is called as classic case of passing off. However, this
concept of passing off has undergone changes due to advent of
technology and modernization. For the said reason the tendency to
insist localized goodwill has been transformed into proving reputation
of a global character. All this would mean that courts entertaining the
case of passing off can discount the localized existence of goodwill
and the business in the territory specific if the substantial nature of
reputation has been proved which has some kind of nexus in the
territory where the protection is sought and the said concept in the
modern language is called trans-border reputation whereas the
goodwill is always local in character, the concept of reputation is
dynamic and is all encompassing. The reputation of a person can
transcend boundaries by virtue of its advertisement in the
newspapers, media circulation, expatriate reputation due to cultural
akin ness and all other relevant factors which connect one countries
business with that of another. This has been aptly explained by the
Division Bench of Delhi High Court in the case of N.R.Dongre v.
Whirlpool Corporation , AIR 1995 Delhi 300 wherein the S.
Jagannath Rao, J. speaking for the Bench has approved the concept
of trans-border reputation in the following words:- The knowledge and the awareness of the goods of a
 foreign trade and its trade mark can be available at a place
 where goods are not being marketed and consequently not
 being used. The manner in which or the source from which
 the knowledge has been acquired is immaterial". 27. The said judgment of Whirlpool [supra] has been approved by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of N.R. Dongre and
Ors. vs Whirlpool Corpn. and Anr. , 1996 (2) ARB.LR 488 SC
wherein J.S. Verma, J. speaking for the Bench again reiterated the
exposition of law laid down by the Division Bench of Delhi High Court. This exposition of 1996 in the case of Whirlpool [supra] has been
further revisited by the courts in India more importantly in the case of Allergan Inc. v. Milment Oftho Industries , 1999 PTC (19) (DB) 160
wherein Ruma Pal, J. has carefully analyzed the interplay between
the goodwill and reputation in a case of passing off action and has
laid down that the courts in India have followed the third approach
which is a middle path wherein strict insistence of localized business
is not necessary. However, reputation which is sought to be protected
has to be substantial one having global character. The observation
made by Hon'ble Judge is as under:- McCain Foods (Supra) at p. 133." 28. The said judgment passed in the case of Milment (supra)
passed by Division Bench of Kolkata High Court has been further
approved by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Milment
Oftho Industries v. Allergan Inc. , (2004) 12 SCC 624 presided by
S.N. Variava, J. wherein the Supreme court has laid down that : It was further observed on the facts of the case as under: The Division bench had relied upon material which prima
 facie shows that the Respondents product was advertised
 before the Appellants entered the field. On the basis of that CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 27 of 57 material the Division Bench has concluded that the
 Respondents were first to adopt the mark. If that be so then
 no fault can be found with the conclusion drawn by the
 Division Bench." 29. The Courts in India have started recognizing the global
character of the brand names and have started giving them
protection merely on the basis of global nature of reputation without
insisting any localized business which was significant departure from
the classic trinity laid down by Lord Diplock in the case of Erven
Warnink (Supra). The position of law uptill Milment has been
followed that the courts in India by placing reliance on the said
decision have proceeded to grant interim orders to the multi-nationals
having their brands which are of global character and prevented the
misuse of the said brands by protecting trans-border reputation
subject to fulfilling of essential characteristics necessary to prove
trans-border reputation. The decision in the case of Milment was also
rendered in the year 2004 when the impact of internet, e-commerce,
social media was yet to be seen and realized. 30. Recently, this Court has rendered a decision in the case of Cadbury UK Limited & Anr vs. Lotted India Corporation Ltd. ,
reported in 2014 (57) PTC 422 (Delhi) wherein the decision of law
relating to trans-border reputation has been further strengthened and
has been taken to another level wherein the court has not merely
relied upon the decision of Milment (Supra) and Whirlpool (Supra)
but has also extended the principle of trans-border reputation by
observing that the existence of a merchant on web pages which are CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 28 of 57 of foreign origin and social media are sufficient to show the trans-
border nature of reputation without having any activity in India at the
relevant time. Though it is very broad extension of the concept of
trans-border reputation, but it is a question of fact in each case as to
how the internet documents are sufficient to show the global
character of the trademark and the reputation attached to the same.
The impact of the said decision which has been given very recently is
yet to be seen and analyzed by the other courts in India in the
upcoming times. Effectively, the concept of trans-border reputation
and goodwill is interesting in academic sense. However, due to
advent of internet media, international travel, the insistence on the
localized business as well as trans-border reputation is nowadays
more or less dealt with in a kind of presumptive approach rather than
by actual establishment of the same. As the international businesses
grow and proximity between the markets would increase, over the
time this concept will become weaker and on one good day world will
be treated as one market. 31. In the case of Mahendra & Mahendra Paper Mills Limited v.
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited , (2002) 2 SCC 147, the case before
the Supreme Court pertained to the grant of an injunction against the
Defendant using, in any manner, as a part of its corporate name or
trading style the words Mahindra & Mahindra or any word(s)
deceptively similar to Mahindra or and/or Mahindra & Mahindra so as
to pass off or enable others to pass off the business and/or services
of the Defendant as those of the Plaintiffs or as emanating from or CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 29 of 57 affiliated or in some way connected with Plaintiffs. The Defendant
contended that its products were in no way similar to that of the
Plaintiffs and that the business carried on by it did not overlap with
the business of any of the companies enlisted by the Plaintiffs. The
Supreme Court held that by using the Plaintiffs trademark as a part of
its corporate name, the Defendant had committed the fraud of
passing off its business and/or services as that of the Plaintiffs. 32. In the case of Kalpataru Properties Private Limited v.
Kalpataru Hospitality & Facility Management , 2011 (48) PTC 135
(Bom.), the issue was whether an action in passing off was
maintainable where the Plaintiff's registered mark was used as part of
the Defendant's corporate name and the goods and services dealt
with by the parties were in different classes. Following Mahendra
and Mahendra, the Court held that a passing off action was
maintainable in the case of a well known mark even if the goods and
services being dealt with by the parties are not similar. 33. In Laxmikant V. Patel vs. Chetanbhat Shah & Anr, reported
in (2002) 3 SCC 65, the Supreme Court has held that: 34. Salmond & Heuston in Law of Torts (20th Edn., at p. 395) call
this form of injury as "injurious falsehood" and observe the same
having been "awkwardly termed" as "passing off" and state : 35. In Ellora Industries Vs. Banarasi Dass Goela , AIR 1980
DEL 254, this Court held that the asset to be protected is the
reputation, the plaintiff's business has in the relevant market
which is manifested in various indicia which lead the customer to
associate the business with the Plaintiff such as the name of the
business, whether real or adopted, the mark, design, make-up or
colour of the plaintiffs' goods, the distinctive characteristics of the
services the Plaintiff supplies. It is around encroachments upon
such indicia that passing off actions arise. The Court held that the
wrongful appreciation of trade reputation was an injury to the
Plaintiffs. The Court held that the said injury and the
acknowledged intention to continue to inflect it was ample
justification for the injunction. The Court held that the goodwill and reputation in a business is
the result of a person's own labour and merit and one trader should
not be allowed to usurp the fruits of a competitors labour. Law will
protect against such intrusions by the rivals upon the goodwill and
reputation of another. This is reaping without sowing. The Court held
in para 22 that it takes year sometimes generations of patience toil
and investment to develop and gain the advantage of goodwill when
this goodwill is sought to be attacked, the law fill prevent it. In para 30, the court held that there is a misrepresentation for
business purposes as to the origin of goods are the Defendants
manufacture in the course of their business. This is passing off. The
defendants have no right to represent their business as the business CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 32 of 57 of the Plaintiff. In para 37, the Court held that the use of the word Elora by the
Defendants is indicative of a warm intimacy with the Plaintiffs and the
word 'Elora' lurks and lingers in the amount of the customers. In the
present case, the casual of unwary customer will be bound to be
misled by the Defendants adoption and use of the mark WORLD
BOOK. 36. In B.K. Engineering Company Vs. U.B.H.I Enterprises, AIR
1985 DEL 2010, this Court held, while deciding the question of
passing-off between Plaintiffs Trade Mark B.K. against Defendants
Trade Mark B.K.81 for similar products namely cycle bells.
Competition must remain free. This is the life blood of free enterprise
system yet, it is essential that trading must not only be honest but
must not even unintentionally be unfair. Therefore, the court has
gone to the extent that even an unintentional act of trespassing on
somebody's Intellectual Property asset cannot allow. The Court further held in B.K. Engineering's case (supra) that
the test of misappropriation of Intellectual Property/goodwill/
reputation is the impression likely to be produced on the casual and
unwary customer. In the same judgment in para 16, the Court held
that the central question in each case is whether the name or
description given by the defendant to his goods is such so as to
create a likelihood that a substantial section of the purchasing public
will be misled into believing that his goods are the goods of the
Plaintiff's. The Court further held that it must be remembered that we are CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 33 of 57 concerned with the case where both firms are engaged in a common
field of activity. The question arises whether the Defendants are
misleading the public into buying their goods in the belief that they
emanated from the Plaintiffs. The Court further said that most
defendants in these cases start their business fully aware of the fame
of the Plaintiffs name and mark. They want to cash in on the
popularity of the Plaintiffs product. Whether the goods are inferior or
superior, every infringement is, in the way tribute to the excellence of
the Plaintiffs wares. It is a major of the popularity of Plaintiffs goods.
The Court, also emphasized in para 54 that the fundamental question
is whether there is a likelihood of deception of the public by the use of
a particular name. If there is likelihood, the Defendant will be
restrained. 37. In the case of Essel Packaging Ltd. v. Essel Tea Exports
Ltd. , 1999 PTC (19) 521, the High Court of Bombay held that
common field of activity is not conclusive for deciding whether there
can be passing off action, although at one point of time the said test
was treated as conclusive. It was held that with the passage of time
the law of requirement of common field of activity in a passing off
action has undergone a radical change and as such there was no
requirement for a common field of activity to found a claim on passing
off action, because the real question in each of such cases is,
whether there is, as a result of mis-representation, a real likelihood of
confusion or deception of the public and consequent damage to the
plaintiff is likely to be caused and if that is taken to be the test then
the focus is shifted from the external objective test of making CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 34 of 57 comparison of activities of the parties, to the state of mind of public,
in deciding whether it will be confused. Protection of Coined Words by the Courts 38. In the case of Reddaway v. Banham (1896) 13 RPC 218
which was referred in the case of Globe Super Parts vs. Blue
Super Flame Industries AIR 1986 Delhi 245, the judgment given by
the Single Judge of this Court speaking through Shri Mahinder
Narain, J. who discussed the case of Reddaway (supra) at great
length by referring the facts of the matter. The said narration of facts
are as under: Thus the "coined" "created", "Fancy", or "new" words which
 were not in use in any language before, and which did not
 have any meaning in the ordinary language, us evidenced
 by their absence in authoritative and standard language
 dictionaries, were the exclusive property of the person who
 first "coined", or created them and adopted them for use,
 and used it in connection with any article the only reason
 why a hitherto meaningless word would be used by another
 in connection with his activities would be to deceive the
 public, that the letters article, thing or goods or the articles,
 thing or goods of the former. He also observed that "he was
 unable to see why a man should be allowed in this way,
 more than in any other, to deceive purchasers into the
 belief that they are getting what they are not, and thus to
 filch the business of a rival". 39. The marks which are of common terms, the claim for
distinctiveness or secondary meaning is weak. Manish Vij v. Indra
Chugh 2002 (24) PTC 561 (Del) was a case where "kabadibazaar"
was held not to be a newly coined but a descriptive word as since it CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 37 of 57 required no imagination to connect it with second hand goods. Similarly in Vijay Kumar Ahuja v. Lalita Ahuja 2002 (24) PTC 141
(Del) the Court held that neither party can claim any right to exclusive
use of common language words and names such as MISTER,
DEFENCE, ARUN and ML unless they acquired reputation and
goodwill or assumed secondary significance. Here, interestingly, the
defendant, itself claims to the exclusive right to use LITE (in
combination with common words) in relation to similar products, such
as electric torches and flashlights, and relies on marks such as
SPOTLITE, PENLITE, CITYLITE, etc. The plaintiff submits therefore
that the defendant cannot challenge the plaintiff's mark as
descriptive, or not being distinctive. In Automatic Electric Limited v.
R.K. Dhawan 1999 (19) PTC 81 (Del) this Court held that as the
defendant itself has sought to claim trade proprietary right and
monopoly in DIMMER DOT, it did not lie in their mouth to say that the
word DIMMER was generic. There too, the plaintiff's mark was with a
disclaimer. In view of these circumstances, it is held that the
defendant cannot say that the HOMELITE mark or HOME, or LITE,
separately are descriptive; they are in any case, arbitrary in relation
to electrical torches and flashlights. HOMELITE does not conjure the
vision only of a portable electrical light; it is associated with a range of
home lighting. Prior user 40. It is argued by the defendant that the plaintiff No.2 is
fraudulently acquired company and is a result of a false declaration
given to the Registrar of Companies with regards to whether an CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 38 of 57 identical company is already registered prior to the Plaintiffs
application. The same reflects on the various forms filled by the
Plaintiffs that the defendant has placed on record and the defendant
is a company by the name World Book Company Pvt. Ltd.
incorporated on 23rd May, 2012, while plaintiffs are a company by
the name World Book India Pvt. Ltd. incorporated on 24th August,
2012. The plaintiffs have incorporated an identical Company by
giving a false declaration to ROC which are evident on pages of the
Reply to RTI Application. The same is against the ROC Guidelines
wherein companies with identical names are considered undesirable
names. The plaintiff used the search facilities available on the portal
of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs for checking the resemblance of
the proposed name(s) with the companies and Limited Liability
Partnerships (LLPs) respectively already registered or the names
already approved. 41. It is also argued that one of the Directors of the plaintiff No.2
Company is Advocate Rohit Kochhar who is also the Chairman of the
Law Firm representing this Instant suit. As per Provisions relating to
the Bar Council Rules an Advocate should not act or plead in any
matter in which he is himself pecuniary interested and also should not
accept Brief from a company of which he is a director. The Legal
Notice served upon the defendant is in itself a gross professional
misconduct as per the provisions of the code of ethics. The Other
director Advocate Manishi Pathak whose name appears in the
Registration of the plaintiff-Company is also one of the Senior
Partners of the Law Firm representing this present Suit. The conduct CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 39 of 57 of the Advocates clearly proves Misuse of the Privilege of being an
Advocate. The plaintiffs have instituted a false and frivolous suit
against the defendant thereby causing loss of reputation, loss of
goodwill, financial loss and harassment. 42. On the other hand, it is argued by the plaintiffs' counsel that the
Defendant has no justification for adopting the impugned mark/name.
It is wrong and unethical on the part of the Defendant, who has
dishonestly adopted the impugned mark/name which is deceptively
and confusingly similar to the extent of being virtually identical with
that of the Plaintiffs' prior adopted, used, registered & famous trade
mark/trade name WORLD BOOK and consequently; the chances of
confusion in respect of the origin or proprietorship of the two rival
marks/names are very high. The act of the Defendant amount to
infringement of the Plaintiffs registered trademarks, passing-off,
dilution and tarnishment. 43. The plaintiffs' being in the business of publishing encyclopedias
and other educational reference material since the year 1917 and
that the WORLD BOOK encyclopedia is considered as number one
selling print encyclopedia in the World. The Plaintiffs being
registered proprietor of the trade mark WORLD BOOK in a number of
countries is also not specifically denied by the Defendant. The
registrations relied upon by the plaintiffs in paragraph No.5 of the
plaint are also not specifically disputed or denied. 44. The defendant's claim that they incorporated the company with
the name WORLD BOOK prior to the incorporation of plaintiff No.2
has no merit in it. The plaintiffs have filed documentary evidence on CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 40 of 57 record consisting of copies of Sales Invoices in order to establish
use, goodwill and reputation of the trade mark WORLD BOOK from
the dates much prior to the date of incorporation of the defendant
company. The plaintiffs have also filed on record copies of
Distribution Agreement dated 1st July, 1993, whereby, the Distribution
rights for the Plaintiffs publication were given on non-exclusive basis
to WBI Foreign Sales Limited for the territory of India including
Jammu & Kashmir. The Plaintiffs have also placed on record copy of
the Agreement dated 25th February, 2004 executed between the
Plaintiff No.1 and Indigo Direct Marketing Limited, Mumbai for resale
of the WORLD BOOK Encyclopedia and other educational
productions in India. Copies of the invoices evidencing the sale of
Plaintiffs' publications in India under the trade mark/trade name
WORLD BOOK from the year 1997 is also produced on record. The
plaintiffs have also produced copies of the news articles as are
published in various journals/newspapers to establish the knowledge,
awareness and reputation existing in the said mark in different
countries in the world. The Plaintiffs have also produced on record
copies of the articles as published in Indian Magazines/papers in
respect of their publications in India and in different countries in the
World. There is a WORLD BOOK Encyclopedia special volume on
India Edition, 1999, excerpts from India Today Edition dated 21st
June, 1999 and other documents pertaining to the period 2006-2007.
The plaintiffs have also filed on record number of news articles
published in various Newspapers and Magazines and also the
website shots giving reference to and/or selling the plaintiff's WORLD CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 41 of 57 BOOK publications. That apart the Plaintiffs have also produced on
record copies of certificates of registrations of the mark WORLD
BOOK in different countries in the world. 45. The documentary evidence produced on record clearly
demonstrate prima facie that the Plaintiffs are not only prior in
adoption and use of the mark WORLD BOOK in respect of and in
relation to publication business but the said mark has widely been
used and is highly reputed mark in the field of publication. The next argument made by the Defendant that this company
was incorporated prior in point of time in India as compared to the
incorporation of plaintiff No.2 is devoid of any merits. The rights in the
trade mark / trade name WORLD BOOK are claimed by plaintiff No.1,
which is in the business of publication from the year 1917. The
plaintiff No.1 has also established its extensive use, goodwill and
reputation accrued to the said mark. The plaintiff No.2 is a wholly
owned subsidiary of plaintiff No.1 which may have been incorporated
few months later than the incorporation of Defendant's company, but
the said fact is of no consequence as the Defendant is much
subsequent to the international adoption, use, goodwill and reputation
of the said mark in India from a date much interior and prior to the
date of the defendant's incorporation. 46. A trader is not permitted to use any name or corporate name in
similar manner although he does not make false representation to a
direct purchaser of its business. It is also pre-requisite that the
misrepresentation has deceived or likely to deceive and somehow the
plaintiff in due course of its business is likely to suffer damages by CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 42 of 57 such deception. In nut-shell, fraudulent intention is not necessary to
establish against the trader who has infringed the rights to obtain
relief. With regard to fancy word, the Courts normally to infer both an
intentions to mislead and the likelihood of deception occurring. If the
plaintiff, who is seeking injunction against a trader, is able to show
that a particular word or phrase has come to connote or associate in
the mind of the public in the nature of its services and business
offered by it, he may succeed in an action. 47. In Milment Oftho Industries & Ors vs. Allergan Inc 2004 (28)
PTC 585 (SC), it was observed by the Supreme Court that whilst
considering the possibility of likelihood of deception or confusion, in
present times and particularly in the field of medicines, the Courts
must also keep in mind the fact that nowadays the field of medicine is
of an international character. The Court has to keep in mind the
possibility that with the passage of time, some conflict may occur
between the use of the mark by the Applicant in India and the user by
the overseas company. It was further observed that it must also be
remembered that nowadays goods are widely advertised in
newspapers, periodicals, magazines and other media which is
available in the country. This results in a product acquiring a
worldwide reputation. Thus, if a mark in respect of a drug is
associated with the Respondents worldwide it would lead to an
anomalous situation if an identical mark in respect of a similar drug is
allowed to be sold in India. However, one note of caution must be
expressed. Multinational corporations, who have no intention of CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 43 of 57 coming to India or introducing their product in India should not be
allowed to throttle an Indian Company by not permitting it to sell a
product in India, if the Indian Company has genuinely adopted the
mark and developed the product and is first in the market. Thus, the
ultimate test should be who is first in the market.
Disclaimer 48. Word 'Book' Disclaimer in the Plaintiffs trade mark "WORLD
BOOK : 49. With regard to domain names, it has been stated that generic
domain names are available for registration on a first come first serve
basis under the INDRP. Therefore, the plaintiffs' claim of registration
of 100 or more domain names are an example of non exclusivity an
attempt to buy each and every domain names available with the
letters of these words. However there are other owners of world book
in combination such as worldbookmart.com, worldbooks.com,
worldbookday.com, worldbooknight.com, worldofbooks.com,
bookworld.com, etc. This reflects that these words are open to the
world for use and cannot be monopolized by anyone being dictionary
words and directly referring to the product for use. So far as the issue of protection of domain names is
concerned, the law relating to the passing off is well settled. The
principle underlying the action is that no one is entitled to carry on his
business in such a way as to lead to the belief that he is carrying on
the business of another man or to lead to believe that he is carrying
on or has any connection with the business carried by another man. It
is undisputed fact that a domain name serves the same function as
the trade mark and is not a mere address or like finding number on
the Internet and, therefore, is entitled to equal protection as a trade
mark. A domain name is more than a mere Internet Address for it
also identifies the Internet site to those who reach it, much like a
person's name identifies a particular person, or as more relevant to
trade mark disputes, a company's name identifies a specific
company. 50. Domain names are entitled to the protection as a trade mark
and the trade mark law applies to the activities on internet. The mere
fact that petitioner has no registered domain name by itself may not
stand in the way of a passing off action. The following are the
decisions in which the domain name is protected by the Courts: The decision further goes on to say that when the value of the
 name consists solely in its resemblance to the name or trade
 mark of another enterprise, the court will normally assume that
 the public is likely to be deceived, for why else would the
 defendants choose it ? It was also stated that someone seeking
 or coming upon a website called http://marksandspencer.co.uk
 would naturally assume that it was that of the plaintiffs. (ii) In Acqua Minerals Ltd. vs. Pramod Borsey and another ,
 2001 PTC 619, while considering an injunction sought to
 restrain the defendants from using the mark BISLERI or
 BISLERI.COM the court observed that so far as the Registering CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 47 of 57 Authority of the domain name is concerned it agrees for
 registration of domain only to one person. That is on first come
 first serve basis. If any person gets the domain name
 registered with the Registering Authority which appears to be
 the trade name of some other person, the Registering Authority
 has no mechanism to inquire whether the domain name sought
 to be registered is in prior existence and belongs to another
 person. The court referring to Rule 4 of the Domain Name
 Registration Policy observed thus : LR. 636, the Bombay High Court, while granting an injunction
 restraining the defendants from using the mark/domain name
 "RADIFF" or any other similr name, it was held that when two
 similar domain names are considered there is every possibility
 of internet user being confused and deceived in believing that
 both domain names belong to one common source and
 connection although the two belong to two different persons. Once the intention to deceive is established, the court should
 not make further enquiry about the likelihood of confusion. If it
 is found that a man's object in doing that which he did was to
 deceive, that he had an intention to deceive the Court, will very
 much infer that his object has been achieved, if the facts tend
 to show that, that is the case and to say that his intention to
 deceive ripening into receipt gives ground for an injunction. (iv) In Living Media India Ltd. vs. Jitender V. Jain & Anr , 2002
 (25) PTC 61 (Del) the plaintiff was a producer of a news
 program under the name and style AAJ TAK while the
 defendant's adopted the name KHABAREIN AAJ TAK in
 respect of newspapers. The mark of the defendants was an
 exact reproduction of the plaintiff's mark. The court observed
 that while the words "Aaj" and "Tak" may be individually
 descriptive and may not be monopolized by any person, but
 their combination does provide protection as a trade name if it
 has been in long, prior and continuous user and it gets
 identified with such persons. (v) In Satyam Infoway Ltd. Vs. Sifynet Solutions Pvt. Ltd . (2004) 6 SCC 145, where the domain names www.sifynet,
 www.sifymall.com, www.sifyrealestate.com of the appellant;
 and www. siffynet net and www.siffynet.com of the respondent
 were in question, it was observed by the Supreme Court as
 under: (vi) In Yahoo!, Inc. Vs. Akash Arora & Anr. 78 (1999) DLT
 285, it was observed as under: 51. The only argument addressed by the learned counsel for the
defendant is that generic domain names are available for registration
on a first come first serve basis under the INDRP. Therefore, the
plaintiffs' claim of registration of 100 or more domain names are an
example of non exclusivity an attempt to buy each and every domain
names available with the letters of these words. These words are
open to the world for use and cannot be monopolized by anyone
being dictionary words and directly referring to the product for use.
The said submissions have no force in view of settled law. The
Supreme Court in the case of Laxmi Kant Patel v. Chetanbhai
Shah, 2002 (24) PTC 1 (SC), in the relevant para 10 held as under:- In this case, the Apex Court further observed that: 52. In a similar situation, this Court in the case of Info Edge (India)
Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. Vs. Shailesh Gupta and Anr. 98 (2002) DLT 499
where the plaintiff was carrying business under the domain name
'Naukri.com' and the defendant had began to use a domain name
'Naukari.com', held that if two contesting parties are involved in the
same area, then there is a grave and immense possibility for
confusion and deception and both the marks were deceptively
similar. While granting a temporary injunction in favour of the plaintiff,
the Court observed as under: 53. As far as use of logo is concerned, the plaintiffs have no
objection if the mark/name and corporate name of WORLD BOOK is
added or used. With regard to the argument of the defendant that
various books, seminars, fairs and events have been happening for
the last many decades under the name WORLD BOOK, the plaintiffs
appear to have raised no grievance. The main case of the plaintiffs is
that the defendant is not entitled to use the trade name/trademark
WORLD BOOK as part of defendant's corporate name or trade
name. The defendant's entitlement to use other corporate name with
different brand name cannot be denied if the defendant would join
any book fair or seminar under different corporate name and
trademark. 54. The plaintiffs' objection in the present case is with respect to
the use of the mark WORLD BOOK by the Defendant as a trade
name/mark and/or domain name. The logo of the Defendant
contained the trade mark/trade name WORLD BOOK of the Plaintiffs. The defendant has no right to use the trade mark/trade name of the
plaintiffs in any form whatsoever. The use of the domain name
WORLDBOOKCOMPANY.IN on the part of the defendant is also
likely to cause confusion and deception in the mind of unwary class
of customers. The business of the Plaintiffs' is likely to be diverted to
the defendant on account of features of the domain which contain the
mark of the Plaintiff. 55. The plaintiffs' mark WORLD BOOK in the present case is highly
distinctive; it has acquired residual goodwill and reputation.
It is a registered trademark. Hence, mere defences raised
by the defendant are moonshine and flimsy which are against the
law. 56. In view of the above facts, circumstances and the evidence
filed on record, the plaintiffs establish a prima facie case for the
confirmation of the ex-parte order of interim injunction. The balance
of convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiffs and against the
defendant, if the interim order is not continued, the plaintiffs would
suffer loss and irreparable injury. On the other hand, the defendant is
also under injunction for the last more than one year and four
months. Their adoption of the name is not honest. 57. Consequently, the defendant's application under Order XXXIX
Rule 4 CPC is dismissed. I.A. No.8971/2013 filed by the plaintiffs is
allowed. The interim order passed on 27th May, 2013 is confirmed. 58. When the matter was taken up, no arguments were addressed
by either of the parties on application bearing I.A. No.12459/2014.
Having gone through the contents of the application, there is no merit CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 56 of 57 in the same. The same is dismissed accordingly. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
OCTOBER 15, 2014 CS(OS) No.1043/2013 Page 57 of 57