Since both the appeals arise out of a common order, they were heard
 together and are being disposed of by this common judgment. 2. Challenge has been made in these appeals by the wife to the order dated
 15.7.2011 passed by the learned Judge, Family Court, Cuttack in Civil Proceeding
 Nos. 251 of 2003 and 204 of 2005. 3. The husband filed Civil Proceeding No.251 of 2003 under Section 12(1) (c) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (in short, "the Act") to declare the marriage with
 wife as void and in the alternative to grant a decree of divorce and permanently
 restrain her from claiming maintenance from him. The wife filed Civil Proceeding
 No.204 of 2005 under Section 9 of the Act for restitution of conjugal rights. The court
 below dismissed the application filed by the wife for restitution of conjugal rights on
 contest without cost and allowed the application filed by the husband on contest
 without cost and dissolved the marriage by a decree of divorce subject to payment of
 cost of Rs.3 lakhs as permanent alimony to the wife within three months from the date
 of the order. 4. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that C.P No.251 of 2003 was
 filed by the husband under Section 12(1)(c) read with Section 13(1) (i-a) of the Act.
 During pendency of the proceeding, by way of amendment, the relief claimed in the
 proceeding was only under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act and his prayer to declare the
 marriage as void on the plea of fraud, which could not be proved by him during trial.
 Therefore, the judgment and decree is liable to be reversed. The court below illegally
 granted relief under Section 13(1) (i-a) of the Act specifically when the said relief was
 deleted from the pleadings of the parties. The finding of the court below, that there is
 no chance of reunion without taking into consideration the application filed by the
 wife for restitution of conjugal rights, is illegal as the court below neither averred
 regarding desertion of wife nor proved the said facts. Therefore, the said finding is 3 based on surmises and conjectures and not sustainable in the eye of law. It was further
contended that ICC No.200 of 2006 was filed by the wife after threatening given by
her to implicate the husband, his family members and relatives in a false case of
torture and demand of dowry and the fraud practiced by the wife suppressing the facts
that due to hormonal imbalance, moustache and beard were appeared on her from
1996 and on totality of the said facts, one can conclude that the husband has been
subjected to cruelty by the wife and due to such harassment and mental agony
practically there can be no reunion and therefore, the order passed by the court below
granting divorce in favour of the husband is liable to be reversed. The application
filed by the wife for restitution of conjugal rights should have been passed by the
court below in view of the medical report that she is medically fit to lead a normal
conjugal life. In support of his contention, he cited a decision of the Madhya Pradesh
High Court in the case of Shrikant v. Smt. Saroj reported in AIR 2001 Madhya
Pradesh 94 and submits that in absence of any evidence to grant relief under Section
13 of the Act, the court below has exercised its power illegally in the absence of any
evidence on record. Hence, the decree is liable to be set aside. He also cited a decision
of the apex Court in the case of Dr.N.G.Dastane v. Mrs. S.Dastane reported in AIR
1975 SC 1534 and the decision of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Krishan Kumar v. Smt. Nidhi Arora reported in AIR 2010 (NOC) 441 (P&H)
wherein it has been held that in absence of positive pleading and evidence, the court
has lack jurisdiction to grant such relief. 5. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that learned
Judge, Family Court dissolved the marriage by a decree of divorce subject to payment
of Rs.3 lakhs on the ground of admission by the wife that the father of the wife
refused to send her to the matrimonial home and the rebuttal evidence of P.W.2, the
brother of the husband, amounts to cruelty and desertion. As the wife has already
received Rs.3 lakhs as permanent alimony on 8.8.2012 as directed by this Court, the
judgment and decree passed by the court below need not be interfered with as the
judgment is passed as per the provision of Order 12 Rule 6(1) of the Civil Procedure
Code read with Section 18 of the Indian Evidence Act on the admission of the wife.
The court has jurisdiction under Section 23(1)(a) of the Act to draw a decree on the
basis of material evidence in the end of justice. She further submitted that implicating
the entire family members in criminal case by filing ICC Case No.200 of 2006
amounts to cruelty. As the husband was frustrated and sustained huge financial 4 expenses for his frequent coming to court from his working place, there is no chance
between the husband and the wife to lead a happy conjugal life. Therefore, the
judgment and decree need not be interfered with. In support of his contention, the
decisions of the apex Court in the case of Praveen Meheta v. Inderjit Mehta, reported
in AIR 2000 SC 2582 and the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Sangeeta v. Hitesh Kumar reported in AIR 2013 Delhi 83 and the decision of this
Court in the case of Smt. Pratima Biswal v. Amulay Ku. Biswal reported in AIR 2002
Orissa 125 have been cited. 6. From the rival submissions of the parties and after going through the
LCR and pleadings of the parties, it appears that the husband filed Civil Proceeding
No.251 of 2003 on 23.3.2003 under Section 12(1)(c) read with Section 13(1) (i-a) of
the Act on the ground that he is a permanent employee of Indian Railways and
working as TTI. The wife is a Graduate and her father is also an educated person and
working in an organization at Jagatsinghpur. The marriage was solemnized between
the parties on 28th February, 2002 as per Hindu rites and customs. It was an arranged
marriage. The wife lived one month in matrimonial home and returned to her father's
house. The husband left for his service place. Thereafter, the wife went with him to
his service place on 1st December, 2002 where she fell ill and was admitted to South
Eastern Railway Hospital where it was detected ovarian tumor. The husband found
moustache and beard on her face and on being asked, she disclosed regarding her
hormonal imbalance. She was under regular treatment from 1996. She also disclosed
that she was under treatment of ovarian tumor. Accordingly, he was shocked. He
informed the said facts to her father who took her to the native place for better
treatment. She was admitted in a nursing home at Cuttack and operated there. After
discharging from the nursing home on 14.1.2003, the doctor advised her to take rest.
It came to his knowledge that the right ovary had been removed by operation and left
ovary had been scratch for removal of cyst as a result of which chance of conception
was very remote. The said fact was disclosed to all the family members of the wife.
Though the family members of the wife were aware about the said illness of the wife,
they did not disclose the said fact before marriage. Had the said fact been brought to
his notice and his family members, he would not have given his consent for such
marriage. Since it was an arranged marriage and the marriage was held by obtaining
fraud and misrepresentation of facts and this fraud gave mental shock and agony, he is
entitled to decree of divorce. To resolve the dispute, his family members and well- wishers arranged a meeting in his house on 23.4.2003. The father of the wife was
invited to attend the meeting. He also admitted the above facts. It was disclosed
before him that since the marriage was held by fraud and misrepresentation of facts
and chance of wife to conceive was very remote, the husband was constrained to file
an application for mutual divorce. The father of the wife did not agree to such
proposal and threatened to implicate the family members in false case. As the matter
was not settled amicably, he filed the proceeding under Section 12 of the Act. 7. The wife appeared and filed the written statement and it was stated
therein that she was ill on 6.12.2002. She traversed all other allegations made by the
husband. She stated that after marriage, she led a happy conjugal life for more than 10
months and the marriage was consummated. She also disclosed that she was admitted
to a nursing home at Cuttack with prior intimation to the husband and his family
members were very much present in the hospital on the date of the operation and took
care of her. On 6.12.2002, the ovarian disease was detected. As per the opinion of the
doctor, she was medically fit to lead a normal life; rather the husband forced her to
remain with her parents and the relief sought by the husband should not be granted on
a defamatory and unfounded allegations. Her father never threatened to file a false
criminal case. She was ready and willing to join the company of the husband. Similar
pleading was made in Civil Proceeding No.204 of 2005 filed by the wife for
restitution of conjugal rights. 8. In support of their pleadings, the husband examined himself as P.W.1
and his brother as P.W.2. The wife examined herself as OPW 1, her father was
examined as OPW 2 and her mother as OPW 3. They filed documents and letters
which were marked as exhibits. On analyzing the evidence on record, the court below
recorded a finding that the marriage was not in dispute. The court below held that the
husband failed to establish convincingly that wife had growth of moustache and beard
on her face and she had ovarian complication prior to her marriage. Therefore, he
failed to establish the plea that by false representation and fraud, he had been given in
marriage with respondent-wife. Under such circumstances, the marriage could not be
held invalid or void. However, the court below taking into consideration the fact that
the wife was operated on 11.1.2003 and after her discharge from nursing home, when
her in-laws sought to bring her back to the matrimonial house, her father refused to
send her with a plea that the doctor advised her rest for 6 months. Since the wife did
not return to the matrimonial home and she preferred to stay at her father's house, her 6 said act amounts to cruelty to the husband. In view of that and on totality of the
evidence on record, one could conclude that the husband was subjected to cruelty by
the wife and on such findings, the court below passed the impugned judgment and
decree. 9. From the above findings of the court below, it appears that the court
below passed a decree under Section 13(1) (i-a) of the Act on the ground of desertion
without analyzing what amounts to desertion. 10. Law is well settled that in its essence desertion means the intentional
permanent forsaking and abandonment of one spouse by the other without that other's
consent, and without reasonable cause. It is a total repudiation of the obligations of
marriage. The inference of desertion has to be made on a balance of probabilities. 11. In view of the above settled principle of law and the pleadings as well as
the evidence led by the parties, in the present case, it does not reveal that the wife is
guilty of desertion. She left the matrimonial home with an intention to return back to
the matrimonial home after treatment. Her subsequent conduct appears that she is
ready and willing to return to the matrimonial home and resume the conjugal rights.
However, on a false plea the husband was not willing to bring her back to the
matrimonial home; rather through P.W 2 (elder brother of the husband), he
pressurized the wife for a divorce. Thereafter on a false plea filed the present
proceeding with an allegation that consent of marriage obtained by fraud and
misrepresentation and he failed to prove such plea during trial. Law is also well settled that the burden of proving desertion- the
"factum" as well as the "animus deserendi" - is on the petitioner; and he or she has to
establish beyond reasonable doubt, to the satisfaction of the Court, the desertion
throughout the entire period of two years before the petition as well as that such
desertion was without just cause. In other words, even if the wife, where she is the
deserting spouse, does not prove just cause for her living apart, the husband has still
to satisfy the Court that the desertion was without cause (See AIR 1964 SC 40,
Lachman Utamchand Kirpalani v. Meena alias Mota and AIR 1975 SC 1534, Dr.
N.G.Dastane v. Mrs. S.Dastane ). Hence, the husband has failed to prove the plea of
desertion against the wife. 12. So far as cruelty is concerned, in the present case, the respondent-
husband has not brought the wife to the matrimonial home. The appellant-wife when
left the matrimonial home has not disclosed any intention of permanent forsaking or 7 abandonment of the spouse or she has left the matrimonial home without consent;
rather she has left the matrimonial home for treatment. As per the doctor's advice, she
was overstayed to take rest. The said overstayed of wife in her parents house will not
constitute cruelty towards husband. Accordingly, the finding of the court below is arbitrary and perverse so
far as cruelty is concerned. 13. The decisions cited by the husband in the case of Praveen Meheta
(supra), Sangeeta (supra) and Smt.Pratima Biswal (supra) are not applicable to the
facts and circumstances of the present case. It appears that the criminal case has been
filed by the wife in the year 2006 during pendency of the present proceeding.
Therefore, the allegation made by the husband that the father of the wife threatened to
file criminal case against the family members of the husband is not correct. 14. Accordingly, we set aside the judgment and decree passed in Civil
Proceeding No.204 of 2005 and reverse the judgment and decree passed in Civil
Proceeding No.251 of 2003 and dismiss the said civil proceeding filed by the husband to
declare the marriage as void on the plea of fraud and directs him to pay maintenance at
the rate of Rs.6000/- (rupees six thousand) per month to the wife from the date of the
order as she has reasons to stay separate from the respondent-husband and has no income. The appeals are accordingly disposed of. .......................... SANJU PANDA, J. Dr.B.R.Sarangi, J : I agree. .......................... Dr.B.R.Sarangi,J

High Court of Orissa, Cuttack
Dated 27th August, 2013/Pradeep