Dear Sir/Madam Herewith I have given the fraud E-mail which I received from Pepsi Online promotion lottery. First I was not aware of that scam(I feel shame about that now). So I have paid amount Rs.19,32,000 for them in the account number which I have given( customs clearance- Rs.28,890, Endorsement- Rs.96,000, Anti-Terrorist/Anti-Drug Certificate from United Nations Rs-4,50,000,  conversion of pound into rupee -  Rs. 89,000, C.O.T (cost of transfer) code- Rs.11,00,000  and affaditative claim from U.K- Rs.1,18,000. I have both the soft copy and hard copy of the receipt. Here for sample I have attached one bill. If you ask I will send all the receipt  through mail. Still the fraud person is in Delhi. He is asking Rs.12,00,000 as tips for our higher officials in Reserve Bank of India. His Phone number  [protected]. He will call  me  by tomorrow at 10.am to give the account number in which I have to pay the amount. I will give you the account number through e-mail. Please catch me and punish them and get the money I paid to him. I received a call from lady named Franssis from the number[protected].  She said that she is talking from U.K. But I found that the number has come from Nigeria. Note: I have attached few E-mails alone for sample First E-mail (12.03.2010) CONGRATULATIONS!!! YOU ARE A CERTIFIED BENEFICIARY OF OUR 2010 PROMOTIONS We are pleased to inform you of the result of the just concluded annual final draws held on 28th February, 2010 PEPSI Company Worldwide Promotion, your email was among the 9 Lucky winners who won £250,000.00POUNDS each on the PEPSI Company. However the results were released on 9th March, 2010 and your email was attached to ticket number (PSPPR2010) and ballot number (BN:[protected]/20) The online draws was conducted by a random selection of email addresses  from an exclusive list of 29,031 E-mail addresses of individuals and corporate bodies picked by an advanced automated random computer search from the internet. However, no tickets were sold but all email addresses were assigned to different ticket numbers for representation and privacy. The selection process was carried out through random selection in our computerized email selection machine (TOPAZ) from a database of over 290,000 email addresses drawn from all the continents of the world. This Lottery is approved by the British Gaming Board and also Licensed by the The International Association of Gaming Regulators (IAGR).This lottery is the 3rd of its kind and we intend to sensitize the public. In other to claim your £250,000.00POUNDS prize winning, which has been deposited in a designated bank. However,you will have to fill the form below and send it to the Promotion manager of The PEPSI Company for verification and then you will be directed to the bank where a cheque of £250,000.00POUNDS has already been deposited in your favour. NAME:...................................... AGE:...................................... SEX:....................................... ADDRESS:............................... EMAIL:.................................... TEL:.................................. MOBILE PHONE:................... OCCUPATION:.......................... COMPANY:............................ COUNTRY:................................ Please you are advised to complete the form and send it immediately to our Promotion manager through email or fax for prompt collection of your fund from the designated bank. (CONTACT PROMOTION MANAGER) Name: Mrs. FRANCESS DAVE Phone # : [protected]  +[protected] E MAIL:  [protected]@hotmail.com You are to keep all lotto information away from the general public especially your ticket number and ballot number.(This is important as a case of double claims will not be entertained).. *Staff of PEPSI Company are not to partake in this Lottery PLEASE BE WARNED* Accept my hearty congratulations once again! Yours faithfully, Mrs. Daisy Louis Second E-Mail (13.03.2010) Dear T.M.Selvakumari, After our board meeting with the British Gaming Board and the Authorities of the Central Bank of London,a resolution has been made and decision taken that due to the laws & policies imposed by the British Government as a Non Resident o[censored]nited Kingdom, be informed that your prize Money has been programmed & packaged through the BRITISH DIPLPMATIC CORP. (B.D.C) to be delivered to your door step in INDIA. We also have some consignment to be delivered in Singapore that is why we use this opportunity to include your promotion cheque as a consignment/ Parcel and you would be called upon the arrival of our Diplomat. This is to bring to your notice that the assigned Senior British Diplomat. MR. STEVE BROWN is responsible for the delivery of your Prize consignment which will arrive in India 14/3/2010. He shall contact you upon his arrival to India and shall call you to announce to you his arrival to India. I wish to let you know that you are required to provide him with a scanned copy of your Driver's license, International Passport or any valid Identity Card as proof of Identity as well as your mobile phone number. Find the Diplomat Bio-Data below: 1) Name of Diplomat: MR. STEVE BROWN (THE SENIOR BRITISH DIPLOMAT) 2) Date of Departure from London, UK: 13/3/2010 4) Date of Arrival in India:  14/3/2010 5} Email : [protected]@gala.net Note:  As soon as the consignment is cleared from the airport authorities , the diplomat shall proceed immediately to deliver the Parcel to you in your residence. Note that the diplomat shall render you any assistance you need for the deposition of your cheque to your bank account, in this regard, you are required to give the diplomat maximum co-operation to enable him to serve you better.  The Diplomat will help you on the procedures for official registration there in India once it's cleared from the Authorities. Please reply to this email by acknowledging the receipt of the mail and your willingness to receive the official diplomat. Notify us via phone on acknowledgement of this mail. Congratulations once again, you are a lucky winner. Yours faithfully, Prof. Mrs. FRANCESS DAVE, Promotion Manager. ©2010Pepsi-Cola Company Third Mail(15.04.10) Attn: T.M.Selvakumari, I received the scan copy of the payment and your i.d proove which was sent to me by you and your parcel containg your Cheuqe of 250,000.00 Pounds and the documents backing your winning was release to me by the custom officer which i proceed to your Ministry of Finance to get your Cheque Endorsed but getting to your Ministry of Finance, there have closed for the day and i was ask to come back tomorrow by 10am and after the Endorsement, i will proceed to your Reserve Bank to deposit your Cheque which there will be responsible for the Encashment into your account same tomorrow. I will advice you to keep your winning very confidential while  i proceed with the processing of your prize for security reason. A very big congratulation once more and thanks for your understanding. Diplomat Steve Brown. Mail received on 02.04.10 Attention: T.M.Selvakumari, Regarding my meeting with the two top officers in your Reserve Bank of India, i was made to understand by them that they have gone through similar process before now that after they have made the transfer, there will not hear from the beneficiary again and the documents of the beneficiary will remiains with them, so there said they cant take such risk to proceed first with the transfer. I also told them that it will not be possible for you to give each of them 5 lack because there have not done the transfer and you people have borrowed money with intrest which you have to return back and they told me that all what there can do for you people is to reduce it to 3 lack each and after that, the transfer will take place within 15 mins and afterthe transfer, the balance will be paid to them or else, there is no way them will proceed. When i was wih them, i told them to call you people so that you can speak your local language but they said there is no need to talk to you people for security reasons because they knows what there are doing is illegal and this are the top officers in your Reserve Bank and i never knew that your country is so currupt in this way. Please go through this email and get back to me immediately because we have to do something as soon as possible due to the time limit i have here. Thanks for the understanding so far. My Regards. Diplomat Stev Brown. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)