( Pronounced on the 15th day of May, 2025)

Brief case of the prosecution: Prosecution Evidence: (9.2.2) PW-13 Dr. Shalabh Dass had further deposed that during the
postmortem, he had made following general observations: (9.2.3) PW-13 Dr. Shalabh Dass had further deposed that during the
postmortem, he had found the following external injuries: Digitally

 Mark went upwards and backwards on right side and was 1.5 cm ATUL
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: (9.2.5) PW-13 Dr. Shalabh Dass had further deposed that during the
postmortem, he had given the following opinion: prepared the detailed postmortem report bearing no. 1662/2016 in his
own handwriting, Ex. PW13/A

(9.2.7) PW-13 Dr. Shalabh Dass during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused had deposed that he did not
remember today whether at the time of conducting the postmortem, the
husband of deceased (accused Nadeem) was also present or not along
with the brother and the father of deceased. He further deposed that as on
the date of his examination i.e. 28.09.2022, he had an experience of more
than 6 years in conducting the postmortem. 10. Formal Witnesses:- (10.5.6) IO PW14 SI Satyadev Panwar had deposed that accused
Nadeem came to the PS and he was interrogated and arrested by him. He
recorded the disclosure statement and produced the accused before the
Court of Ld.MM and the accused was remanded to JC. (10.5.7) IO PW14 SI Satyadev Panwar had correctly identified the
accused and the ligature material i.e. the chunni, Ex. P-1. (10.5.8) IO PW14 SI Satyadev Panwar during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had deposed that the
ceiling fan by which the chunni was hanging was not taken in
possession. He did not remember the make, colour and size of the said
ceiling fan. He further deposed that he had not recorded any statement of
any witness on 09.11.2016 and the first statement was recorded at the PS
on 10.11.2016. Plea of the Accused: 11. After completion of prosecution evidence, PE was closed. The Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 12. The accused chose not to lead any Defense Evidence. The DE was
closed accordingly. 13. I have heard the arguments advanced by Sh. Mukul Kumar Ld.
Additional PP for the State; Sh. Ankur Gupta, Ld. Counsel for the
accused Nadeem. I have also minutely gone through the evidence
brought on record and the other material aspects of the case. Submissions made on behalf of the State: 14. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that death of
the deceased Afsana had taken place on 09.11.2016, since, it is duly
established from the MLC, Ex. PW12/A prepared by Dr. Mohd. Niyaz
Alam, which was brought on record through the testimony of PW12 Dr.
Shalabh Dass. In the said MLC, it was duly recorded that the deceased
was brought to JPC Hospital on 09.11.2016 at 05:25 AM with the alleged
history of being found hanging from the ceiling fan, as told by the
accused Nadeem, since, he had brought her to the hospital. The deceased
was declared as "brought dead at arrival". 15. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
prosecution has been able to establish beyond reasonable doubt through
the testimony of PW13 Dr. Vishwajeet Singh, who had conducted the
postmortem of the deceased vide detailed PM report, Ex. PW13/A that
 Digitally

the death of the deceased took place around 2 days prior to the time of ATUL
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 16. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that upon
inquiries made from the accused by the IO, the accused had disclosed
that the marriage between him and the deceased had taken place less
than 7 years from the date of her death, therefore, following the
procedure, the IO had initiated the inquest proceedings and had duly
informed the SDM concerned. Thereafter, the parents of the deceased
were intimated and they were produced before the ilaka Executive
Magistrate on 10.11.2016, wherein, the statement of the father of the
deceased, namely Maujuddin, Ex. PW1/C was recorded. In the said
statement, the father of the deceased had duly stated that his daughter
Afsana had expired on 09.11.2016 and on the day of the incident, more
than 7 years had expired from the day of her marriage with the accused.
The said statement was given in the presence of the brothers of the
deceased namely Shajid and Manga and two other witnesses namely
Mohd. Farooq and Dilshad. Since, the rigours of section 304-B , IPC
1860 were not prima facie attracted, the then Executive Magistrate
referred the matter to the SHO PS Khajuri Khas to take the action as per
law. 17. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
brothers of the deceased had leveled specific allegations of cruelty and
harassment meted out to the deceased, prior to her death at the hands of
 Digitally

the accused Nadeem. The brothers of the deceased, PW2 Shajid and ATUL
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 18. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
testimony of PW3 Neelam is also clinching in nature, wherein, she had
categorically deposed about the frequent incidents of quarrel witnessed
by her, wherein, the accused was fighting with deceased on trivial issues.
She was an independent non-interested witness and her testimony has
fully corroborated the testimony of PW2 and PW6. 19. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that prior to the
deceased Afsana hanging herself by tying a chunni around her neck and
by tying other end of the chunni on the ceiling fan of her room, she was
subjected to harassment due to dowry and other illegal demands. The
prosecution has also been able to prove that the offence was committed
in the dwelling house, where the accused Nadeem also resided and in the
present case, the offence took place behind the closed doors of the
matrimonial house of the deceased and therefore, the burden of proof
upon the prosecution was lighter, in view of section 106 of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872, since the circumstances around the death of the
deceased was especially within the knowledge of the accused Nadeem,
therefore, the burden of proving that fact rested on him, which he had
miserably failed to discharge in the present case. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 20. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that the
identity of the accused Nadeem was fully established in the present case
as they were duly identified by all the prosecution witnesses before the
Court. Submissions made on behalf of the Accused: 21. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that the case of
the prosecution was relying heavily upon the testimony of the
complainant PW2 Shajid, who is the brother of the deceased. However,
he had not fully supported the case of the prosecution and had turned
hostile before this Court. Therefore, the case of the prosecution had
taken a massive hit. 22. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that as per the
testimony of PW2 Shajid, the allegations of harassment and demands
made by the accused upon the deceased, prior to her death were all
hearsay in nature, since, he had categorically deposed that the said facts
were told by his sister Afsana to their father Maujuddin and he was later
apprised by his father about the same. However, no such fact was stated
by PW1 Maujuddin at the time of recording of his testimony before this
Court. Therefore, the prosecution had failed to prove the essential
ingredients of its case. 23. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that the entire
case of the prosecution was built upon the alleged demand of Rs. 1.5
lakhs raised by the accused, one day prior to her death or that if the said
demand was not met by her family members, then the accused would Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 24. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that PW6
Manga is not a reliable witness and his entire testimony is marred with
substantial improvements from his earlier statements made to the police u/s 161 Cr.PC. He was duly confronted from his earlier statement, Ex.
PW6/DA at the time of his cross examination. 25. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that another
crucial witness of the case of the prosecution was the landlord, PW3
Neelam, however, even she had turned hostile and had not supported the
case of the prosecution. 26. It is submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the accused that the accused
Nadeem and the deceased had fallen in love, while the deceased was still
married to some other person. The deceased left her first husband and
married the accused and the said fact was never accepted by her family
members, who were not happy with their union. The family members of
the deceased used to trouble her and she got fed up and took her own
life, since, she was suffering from depression. After her committing
suicide, the family members of the deceased saw an opportunity to frame Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 27. Before coming to the discussion of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution on merits, this court deems it necessary to discuss the law
and the judgments passed by the superior courts in this regard. 28. In order to succeed in charge under Section 498A of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 the prosecution is required to prove that the accused
had subjected the deceased to cruelty, as defined in the explanation to the
section. For this purpose, the provision of Sec. 498A IPC, 1860 is
reproduce as under:- 29. It is clear from a bare reading of the said provision in conjunction
with the 'Explanation' appended to the said section, that it is not every
cruelty which is punishable under Section 498A of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860. The cruelty, so as to attract penal provisions, contained in Section 498A of Indian Penal Code, 1860, has necessarily to be a willful
conduct, which is of such a nature that it is likely to drive a woman to
commit suicide or cause grievous injury or danger to her life or health.
The use of the expression "willful" in the explanation to Section 498A of
Indian Penal Code, 1860, indicates that the conduct attributed to the
accused, in order to be culpable, needs to be deliberate, aimed at causing
injury to the health of the woman or bringing misery to her. If the
accused knows or is reasonably expected to know that his conduct is
likely to cause injury to the life, limb or health of the aggrieved woman
or if his conduct is of such a nature, that causing injury to the life, limb
or health can be a natural consequence for the woman, who is recipient
of such a conduct, it will attract criminal liability on the part of the
husband or his relative, as the case may be. 30. It is easily believed that everyone is presumed to intend the natural
consequences of his act and such a presumption must necessarily be
drawn even if there is no intention to cause any injury or harm to the
woman. Whether the conduct in question is likely to drive the woman to
cause injury to her life, limb or health, will depend upon a number of
factors such as social and economic status of the parties, the level of
awareness of the aggrieved woman, her temperament, state of her health,
physical as well as mental and how she is likely to perceive such a
behavior. If a woman is harassed with a view to coerce her or any of her
relatives to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable
security, it will also constitute cruelty, as defined in the explanation to Section 498A of Indian Penal Code. 31. The expression "Cruelty" takes in its ambit mental cruelty as well
as physical torture of the woman. If the conduct of the accused with a
woman is likely to cause a reasonable apprehension in her mind that her
living with the husband will be harmful and injurious to her life and
safety, such a conduct would attract criminal liability, envisaged in Section 498A of IPC, 1860. 32. If the woman has been harassed on account of her failure or the
failure of her relatives to meet an unlawful demand for property or
valuable security, that also constitutes cruelty, within the meaning of Section 498A of IPC. The expression "harassment" has not been defined
in Section 498A of IPC, but its dictionary meaning is 'to subject
someone to continuous vexatious attacks, questions, demands or other
unpleasantness, etc'. However, it is not harassment of every nature Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 33. Before appreciating the evidence brought on record by the
prosecution, it is essential to reproduce section 306 IPC, 1860: 34. The abetment is defined under chapter V of the Indian Penal Code ,
1860. Section 107 defines abetment of a thing: 35. In the facts of the present case, it is not the case of the prosecution
that the accused person had engaged in a conspiracy or had intentionally
aided in commission of an act. As per the prosecution version, the
accused had instigated the deceased to commit suicide, after he had
committed mental and physical cruelty upon her. On the basis of the said
cruelty, the deceased had hanged herself. 36. Urge for living is a natural phenomenon in mankind. A person
would not embrace death unless there is some psychological problem or
mental agony or such circumstances that the person committing suicide
may think that life he or she is living is more miserable than the pangs
and agony of death. The power of tolerance would vary from person to
person. Some persons try to make the life easy by tolerance while others
even on petty points bring an end to their life. Reliance is placed upon
the judgment of the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court reported as " Gurditta
Singh v. The State of Rajasthan ", 1992 Crl. L. J. 309 . 37. Further more, in another case reported as " Sher Singh @ Partapa
v. State Of Haryana ," 2015 (3) SCC 724, it was observed by Hon'ble
 Digitally
Supreme Court as under: signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT Date: 10. It is already empirically evident that
 the prosecution, ubiquitously and in
 dereliction of duty, in the case of an
 abnormal death if a young bride confines
 its charges to Section 304B because the
 obligation to provide proof becomes least
 burdensome for it; this is the significance
 that attaches to a deeming provision. But,
 in any death other than in normal
 circumstances, we see no justification for Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 not citing either Section 302 or Section ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: under the Act can be said to include the means, factor or material,
lending a degree of probability through a logical inference to the
existence of a fact. It is an adjective law highlighting and aiding the
substantive law. Thus, it is neither wholly procedural nor substantive,
though trappings of both could be felt, Reliance is placed upon the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in"Rajesh Yadav &
Anr. Vs. State of U.P", Criminal Appeal No. 339-340 of 2014, date of
decision 04.02.2022. 40. The definition of the word "proved" though gives an impression of
a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and soul of the entire Act.
This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the
"matters before it". The importance is attached to the degree of
probability in proving a fact through the consideration of the matters
before the court. What is required for a court to decipher is the existence
of a fact and its proof by a degree of probability, through a logical
inference. 41. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove a fact.
All "evidence" would be "matters" but not vice versa. In other words,
matters could be termed as a genus of which evidence would be a
species. Matters also adds strength to the evidence giving adequate Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 42. Matters, do give more discretion and flexibility to the court in
deciding the existence of a fact. They also include all the classification of
evidence such as circumstantial evidence, corroborative evidence,
derivative evidence, direct evidence, documentary evidence, hearsay
evidence, indirect evidence, oral evidence, original evidence,
presumptive evidence, primary evidence, real evidence, secondary
evidence, substantive evidence, testimonial evidence, etc. 43. In addition, they supplement the evidence in proving the existence
of a fact by enhancing the degree of probability. As an exhaustive
interpretation has to be given to the word "matter", and for that purpose,
the definition of the expression of the words "means and includes",
meant to be applied for evidence, has to be imported to that of a "matter"
as well. Thus, a matter might include such of those which do not fall
within the definition of Section 3 , in the absence of any express bar. 44. What is important for the court is the conclusion on the basis of
existence of a fact by analyzing the matters before it on the degree of
probability. The entire enactment is meant to facilitate the court to come
 ATUL
to an appropriate conclusion in proving a fact. There are two methods by AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.05.15 11:02:32 +0530 CNR No. DLNE01-006340-2016 State Vs. Nadeem FIR No. 782/2016 Page no. 32/58
 which the court is expected to come to such a decision. The court can
come to a conclusion on the existence of a fact by merely considering the
matters before it, in forming an opinion that it does exist. This belief of
the court is based upon the assessment of the matters before it.
Alternatively, the court can consider the said existence as probable from
the perspective of a prudent man who might act on the supposition that it
exists. The question as to the choice of the options is best left to the court
to decide. The said decision might impinge upon the quality of the
matters before it. 45. The word "prudent" has not been defined under the Act. When the
court wants to consider the second part of the definition clause instead of
believing the existence of a fact by itself, it is expected to take the role of
a prudent man. Such a prudent man has to be understood from the point
of view of a common man. Therefore, a judge has to transform into a
prudent man and assess the existence of a fact after considering the
matters through that lens instead of a judge. It is only after undertaking
the said exercise can he resume his role as a judge to proceed further in
the case. 46. The aforesaid provision also indicates that the court is concerned
with the existence of a fact both in issue and relevant, as against a whole
testimony. Thus, the concentration is on the proof of a fact for which a
witness is required. Therefore, a court can appreciate and accept the
testimony of a witness on a particular issue while rejecting it on others
since it focuses on an issue of fact to be proved. However, the evidence
of a witness as whole is a matter for the court to decide on the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 47. While appreciating the evidence as aforesaid along with the matters
attached to it, evidence can be divided into three categories broadly
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) wholly unreliable and (iii) neither wholly
reliable nor wholly unreliable. If evidence, along with matters
surrounding it, makes the court believe it is wholly reliable qua an issue,
it can decide its existence on a degree of probability. Similar is the case
where evidence is not believable. When evidence produced is neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable, it might require corroboration, and
in such a case, court can also take note of the contradictions available in
other matters. The aforesaid principle of law has been enunciated in the
authority of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " Vadivelu Thevar v.
State of Madras ", 1957 SCR 981 wherein it is held as under: In the first category of proof, the court should
 have no difficulty in coming to its conclusion
 either way -- it may convict or may acquit on
 the testimony of a single witness, if it is found to Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 be above reproach or suspicion of interestedness, ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 48. In the present case, the accused is facing the charge of committing
the offences punishable u/s 498A / 306 IPC, 1860, for having abeted the
suicide and for committing cruelty upon the deceased, before her death. 49. In the present case, the date of marriage between the deceased and
the accused Nadeem is not disputed. The accused was married with the
deceased in the year 2009 and there was one daughter born out of the
said wedlock. Since, as per the statement, Ex. PW1/C, made by the
father of the deceased, namely Maujuddin before the Ld. Executive
Magistrate, wherein, he had categorically stated that the marriage of his
daughter was solemnized with the accused more than 7 years prior to her
death on 09.11.2016, therefore, section 304-B IPC, 1860 was not
attracted. 50. In the present case, the presumption u/s 113-A of the Indian
 Digitally
 signed by Evidence Act, 1872 is not attracted, since, the death of deceased Afsana, ATUL
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 51. The case of the prosecution was heavily dependent upon the
testimonies of 3 star witnesses i.e. PW2 Shajid, PW6 Mangla and PW3
Neelam. All the said witnesses had not fully supported the case of the
prosecution and had turned hostile before this Court, on one material
aspect or the other. 52. To prove that the deceased was subjected to cruelty and
harassment on account of dowry demands and otherwise, prior to her
death or that the said cruelty or harassment was of such a character that it
forced the deceased to take her own life, the prosecution was looking to
establish the same through the testimony of the brothers of the deceased
namely PW2 Shajid and PW6 Manga. 53. PW2 Shajid is the complainant of the present case and in his
statement, Ex. PW2/A, he had leveled certain categorical allegations
against the accused Nadeem of not giving the daily expenses to the
deceased, prior to her death or that the accused used to consume liquor
and would give beatings to the deceased. He had also leveled specific
allegations of the accused raising demands of money from the deceased
and her family members. The main allegation, which as per the case of
the prosecution led to the deceased to the point of taking her own life
 Digitally
was the demand of Rs. 1.5 lakhs raised by the accused, one day prior to signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 54. When the complainant, PW2 Shajid took the witness stand on
29.11.2018, he had merely deposed that he was aware of his sister
Afsana getting married to the accused, however, he was not aware of the
exact date. He went on to further categorically depose that "I do not
know as to whether my sister was residing at her matrimonial house (at
the house of accused Nadeem) happily or not." Therefore, the said
testimony of his had given a major blow to the entire case of the
prosecution, since, the entire premise of the deceased being unhappy
with the accused, as allegedly portrayed by the prosecution was shaken. 55. PW2 Shajid further went on to depose that although one or two
days prior to her death, his sister told him that accused was beating her
and harassing her, however, she had not disclosed the reason for the
same. He had not deposed anything about the demand of Rs. 1.5 lakhs
raised by the accused, one day prior to the deceased taking her life. He
was given the suggestion to this effect by Ld. Addl. PP for the State, after
he was declared hostile, however, he had categorically denied the said
suggestion as well. 56. One more limb of the prosecution's case to establish the cruelty
committed by the accused upon the deceased, prior to her death was that
the deceased had saved some money and she had purchased a gold chain
for the future of her daughter, however, the said chain was snatched by
the accused and was pledged by him to borrow some money. However, Digitally
 signed by

PW2 Shajid did not depose on the said lines and had merely deposed at
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 57. The last allegation against the accused person was that he used to
consume liquor and under the influence of drinks, he would give
beatings to the deceased. With respect to the said allegations, the PW2
Shajid had yet again not supported the case of the prosecution and during
his cross examination, although, he admitted the suggestion put to him
by Ld. Addl. PP for the State in the said regard, however, in the very next
breath, he negated the said suggestion by categorically deposing that the
said fact was told to him by his father, after his sister had communicated
about it to their father. It is pertinent to point out here that the father of
the deceased, namely Maujuddin was examined on the same day as
PW1, however, he made no such statement in the said regard. Therefore,
a further nail in the coffin of the prosecution's case was dealt from the
testimony of PW1 and PW2. 58. As far as the testimony of the other brother of the deceased, PW6
Manga is concerned, the same is also not of sterling character and he has
leveled number of allegations against the accused, at the time of
recording of his examination-in-chief, however, his entire testimony was
nothing but improvement on his earlier statement, Ex. PW6/DA, made
before the police. Nowhere in his earlier statements, he had stated about Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 59. There are further contradictions between the testimonies of the
prosecution witnesses. As per PW-2 Shajid, the information regarding
the death of the deceased was received by their father and he was later
told about the same. However, as per his earlier statements, Ex. PW2/A,
the information regarding the condition of the deceased was given by the
landlord of accused Nadeem, after she had called him through the mobile
number of the deceased Afsana. However, PW-6 Manga had deposed
that they had received the call from the landlord of accused Nadeem and
that they were asked to come to Delhi. The father of the deceased, PW-1
Maujuddin did not depose about any such phone call received by them.
When the landlord Neelam entered into the witness box as PW-3, she did
not depose about making any such call to the family members of the
deceased. 60. The prosecution was also relying on the testimony of the said
landlord of the accused, namely PW-3 Neelam, since she was an
independent public witness and as per their story, she had witnessed the
accused Nadeem quarreling with the deceased prior to her death. As per
her statement made to the IO, on number of occasions, deceased Afsana
had called her and informed her that accused Nadeem had quarreled with Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 61. The statement of the father of the deceased, Ex. PW1/C which was
purportedly recorded by the Executive Magistrate, Karawal Nagar is also
full of suspicion. The prosecution had examined the then Executive
Magistrate, Sh. Rajesh Dhawal as PW5 and he had categorically deposed
that the said statement was not recorded by him in his own handwriting
and the same was recorded upon his dictation, by his staff. However,
perusal of the document clearly reflects that no such note had been
appended therein, to the said effect. Furthermore, there is a
cutting/interpolation in the said statement and at point "C", the word
"Mrityu" was earlier written and it was struck off and in its place word
"Hatya" had been mentioned. PW5 Rajesh Dhawal had categorically
mentioned in his cross examination that there is no initial on the said
cutting of word "Mrityu" by himself or his staff who had allegedly
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 62. It is being held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " S. S.
Chheena Vs. Vijay Kumar Mahajan & Anr. " (2010) 12 SCC 190: means "self" and "cide" means "killing",
 thus implying an act of self-killing. In
 short, a person committing suicide must
 commit it by himself, irrespective of the
 means employed by him in achieving his
 object of killing himself. ............. 18. In our country, while suicide in itself
 is not an offence, considering that the
 successful offender is beyond the reach of
 law, attempt to suicide is an offence under Section 309 IPC." 63. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " State of West Bengal Vs.
Orilal Jaiswal " (1994) 1 SCC 73 had cautioned that: 64. In " Prakash & Ors. Vs. The State of Maharashtra and Anr. " 2024
INSC 1020, the Hon'ble Apex Court had held that: 65. Moreover, recently in "Jayedeepsinh Parvinsinh Chavda & Ors.
Vs. State of Gujrat" 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3679 and in Prakash (Supra)
the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had held that the element of mens
rea cannot be simply be presumed or inferred, instead it must be evident
and explicitly discernible. Without this, the foundational requirement for
establishing abetment under the law, i.e. deliberate and conscpicious
intention to provoke or contribute to the act of suicide would remain
unfulfilled. It was held in S. S. Chhenna (Supra) that: 66. The positive act of instigation is a crucial element of abetment.
While dealing with an issue of similar nature, the Hon'ble Apex Court
had held in the case of " Ramesh Kumar Vs. State of Chhatisgarh " (2001)
9 SCC 618 had led down the parameters of what would be constituted to
be an act of instigation by holding as follows: 67. In " Ude Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Haryana " (2019) 17 SCC 301,
the Hon'ble Apex Court had held that: As explained and reiterated by this
 Court in the decisions above referred,
 instigation means to goad, urge
 forward, provoke, incite or encourage
 to do an act. If the who committed
 suicide had been persons
 hypersensitive and the action of the
 accused is otherwise not ordinarily
 expected to induce a similarly
 circumstanced person to commit
 suicide, it may not be safe to hold the
 accused guilty of abetment of suicide. course of conduct creates a situation
 which leads the deceased perceiving no
 other option except to commit suicide,
 the case may fall within the four
 corners of Section. 306 IPC . If the
 accused plays an active role in
 tarnishing the self-esteem and self- respect of the victim, which eventually
 draws the victim to commit suicide, the
 accused may be held guilty of
 abetment of suicide. The question of
 mens rea on the part of the accused in
 such cases would be examined with
 reference to the actual acts and deeds
 of the accused and if the acts and deeds
 are only of such nature where the
 accused intended nothing more than
 harassment or snap show of anger, a
 particular case may fall short of the
 offence of abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by
 words or deeds until the deceased
 reacted or was provoked, a particular
 case may be that of abetment of
 suicide. Such being the matter of Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL

 delicate analysis of human behaviour, ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT
 Date: 68. Guided by the aforesaid decisions passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India, wherein, it was time and again held that in cases of
alleged abetment of suicide, there must be a proof of direct or indirect
acts of incitement to the commission of the suicide. The cause of such
suicide often involves complex behavioral dynamics of the individual
concerned, this Court had to look for cogent and convincing piece of
proof to the said acts of incitement to the commission of suicide. The
mere allegation of harassment of the deceased by another person do not
suffice, unless, there is such action on part of the accused which compels
the person to commit suicide. The mens rea is not to be merely inferred
and had to be examined with reference to the actual acts and deeds of the
accused. In the present case, the prosecution could not bring on record
that the deceased was subjected to harassment or cruelty with respect to
demands of dowry or otherwise. There is no reliable testimony of any
prosecution witness, be it PW2 Shajid or PW6 Manga, or the
independent public witness PW3 Neelam, to establish that the accused
had provoked the deceased to such an extent, that she was left with no
other option, but to take her own life. There is no suicide note. The
allegation of demand of Rs. 1.5 lakhs, one day prior to her death or the
threat of she would have be eliminated, if the said demand was not met,
is also not proved through any cogent evidence of the prosecution's
witnesses examined before this Court and their testimonies are not
clinching in nature. ATUL
 AHLAWAT 69. Since, the element of mens rea could not be presumed or inferred, Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.05.15 11:05:44 +0530 CNR No. DLNE01-006340-2016 State Vs. Nadeem FIR No. 782/2016 Page no. 53/58
 especially when the statutory presumption u/s 113-A of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872, was not applicable. From the facts and
circumstances of the present case as put forth by the prosecution, the said
mens rea was not evident from the testimony of the prosecution
witnesses. Therefore, the foundational requirement for establishing
abetment of suicide, as mandated under the law remained unfulfilled.
There is not even an iota of evidence brought on record through any
credible witness that the accused Nadeem had committed any such act of
cruelty, either physical or mental upon his wife (deceased Afsana), which
was of such a nature likely to drive his wife to commit suicide or to
cause grave injury or danger to her life, limb or health, whether mental
or physical. 70. The prosecution had examined 3 witnesses from the family of the
deceased, namely the brothers PW2 Shajid and PW6 Manga; and her
father PW1 Maujuddin. None of the said witnesses had deposed with any
credibility that the deceased was subjected to harassment or that such
harassment was with view to coerce her or her family members including
PW1, PW2 and PW6 to deliver any property or valuable security or to
meet out any unlawful demand regarding the said property or valuable
security. Since, the prosecution had miserably failed that the deceased
was subjected to cruelty or harassment at the hands of the accused and
furthermore, there is no evidence of clinching nature to establish the fact
that the deceased was goaded, urged forward, provoke, incited or
encouraged to commit suicide by hanging herself with the chunni tied
around her neck and the other end being tied around the ceiling fan of
 Digitally

her rented apartment, which she was sharing with the accused and their
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 71. There is no reliable testimony of any witness, whether belonging
to the family of the deceased, i.e. PW1 Maujuddin, PW2 Shajid or PW6
Manga, or any independent witness i.e. PW3 Neelam, who had either
deposed categorically regarding the deceased being subjected to cruelty
or faced harassment by the accused, prior to her death or that the conduct
of the deceased was of such nature as likely to drive her to commit
suicide or the harassment with such a view to coerce her or her family
members to meet any unlawful demand relating to demand of any
property or valuable security. Therefore, the accused cannot be even
convicted for committing the offence punishable u/s 498-A IPC, 1860. Conclusion & Findings: 72. As per the celebrated judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in "Sharad Birdichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharastra" AIR 1984
SC 1622, the five golden rules of circumstantial evidence were
elucidated, wherein, it was held that the onus remains on the prosecution
to prove the complete chain of events which shall undoubtedly come
towards the guilt of the accused persons and it shall rule out any other
hypothesis that may point in the favour of the accused. Each and every Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 73. In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the settled law is that
the circumstantial from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be
fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
Moreover, all the circumstances should be complete and there should be
no gap left in the chain of evidence. Further, the proved circumstances
must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused
and totally inconsistent with his innocence, as held by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in "Hanuman Govind Nargundkar Vs. State of
MP" AIR 1952 SC 343, "Bodh Raj Vs. State of J&K" AIR 2002 SC
3164 and "Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra " AIR
1984 SC 1622 and "C. Chenga Reddy and Ors. Vs. State of A.P." (1996)
10 SCC 193. 74. It is also settled law that accused has to only probabilize the
defense and he is presumed to be innocent till he is proved to be guilty.
Suspicion, however, strong can never take place of proof. There is
indeed a long distance between accused "May have committed the
 Digitally
offence" and "Must have committed the offence", which must be signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 75. There is another golden thread which runs through the web of
administration of justice in criminal cases, is that if two views are
possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of
the accused and other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to
the accused should be adopted, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in "Kali Ram Vs. State of Himanchal Pradesh" AIR 1973 SC
2773. In the facts of the present case, the prosecution was not able to
prove all the material links of the chain of circumstantial evidence and
the said chain did not point towards the guilt of accused Nadeem and
other hypothesis inconsistent with his guilt and consistent with his
innocence could not be ruled out. 76. In view of the aforesaid, the accused Nadeem S/o Late Sh.
Basiruddin is hereby is acquitted for committing the offence punishable
under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code,1860 and also for
committing the offence punishable under section 498-A of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 and he shall be set at liberty. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 77. The accused Nadeem has already filed his bail bonds u/s 437-A Cr.PC and the same shall remain valid for the period of 6 months and all
the earlier filed bail bonds/surety bonds except for bail bonds u/s 437-A Cr.PC stands discharged and the original documents if any, be released to
the surety as per rules. 78. The case property, if any, be released to the rightful owner as per the
law and the applicable rules. 79. File be consigned to the record room after due compliance. Announced in the open court on 15.05.2025. This judgment consists of 58 pages and all
of them have been digitally signed by me.