SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: might kms this month honestly
DATE: 2024-12-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1h82je2/might_kms_this_month_honestly/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is a very very long rant post. idek how to start since its been so long ive opened up to anyone. instead of writing this in my notes app i'll post this on reddit

I am currently in a tier 1 engineering college, my grades arent that good since ive stopped studying at all, I hate my parents dont have many friends and life is fucked up in general.
 Some backround first. I was a really bright student till grade 9, then my parents forced me into NTSE prep in class 10 which I clearly remember I did not want. I remember begging them to not put me into allen since I was playing tennis at the time at a good level and did not want to sacrifise it. anyway, they went ahead with the decision and 6 months later I had to drop out of the coaching because of mental health issues. i was severely depressed and suicidal, was almost failing my preboards, my teachers were asking me if there's some problem at my home but I did not have any answers. Everyday I used to wake up and lay there in my bed listening to my parents talk among themselves about how I'm a failure and won't amount to anything. My dad used to say 'मरने दे साले को अपने आप समझ जाएगा'. This was my morning routine for almost 5-6 months, lying on my bed in tears listening to my parents talk shit about me. I knew they genuinely meant it because it wasnt something they ever mentioned it to me directly. They only ever said those things because they thought i wasnt listening. Fastforward 6 months later i somehow managed to score 95.2% in my boards and was half relieved but my teachers and everyone were still expecting me to score 99+ and everyone in general was really disappointed. I promised myself to turn my life around and start playing tennis again make new friends and start studying again from grade 11 but then lockdown struck and my whole life went down the drain. Soon I changed schools parents wanted me to prepare for jee so enrolled in Allen online classes again and for the next 1.5 years, I locked myself in my room where my parents thought i was attending online classes but was actually just doomscrolling and playing valorant. I was severely depressed did not see any single person except my parents for that entire time, lost about 25 kgs of weight became really underweight and used to cry everyday. I saw no future and just wanted to die. Eventually I convinced parents to let me drop out of coaching and I started to finally attend school offline in the middle of 12th grade. I made my first girlfriend on the first day made a lot of friends, lots of good memories, I even managed to get 95 in my 12th boards. after my school was over I had no idea what I would do in life, I hadn't studied for jee or any competitive exam so I decided to take a drop year in september. Worked my ass off in coaching till november but then again I fell in love with a girl and all my time I used to spend with her. Scored really bad in my jee mains 90k rank. Also found out she was cheating on me and was heartbroken, I had imagined my entire life with her, that obviously sounds stupid and naiive but I was very inexperienced at handling such a thing at the time. used to cry in front of my friends( friends I made in grade 12, still my closest friends) late at night. used to sneak out of my house to just sit and talk to them as I wasnt allowed to meet anyone after my parents saw my jee mains rank. Somehow pulled myself back up managed to get 14k rank in jee adv and a decent score in BITSAT to get into a decent branch here. During my gap year, there was this one instance where my mother was really frustrated with me and told me how big of a loser I am (which I already had kind of figured out) but still hurt me a lot. my brother, who's 5 years younger used to call me a loser because he used to think I failed grade 12 and so was repeating it. After coming to college, I thought life would be much better, and it was for some time but since then Ive realised I am such a fucking loser. I dont have communication skills bcs I never really had friends growing up I've fucked up my academics, my dreams of going for a masters are probably ruined too. I dont really attend any classes stay in my room allday. have achieved absolutely nothing in life. looking back, I've wasted the last 5 years of my life. parents were probably right sbout me being a loser but I dont understand why they treat my brother so much better. he hasn't scored above 80-85 in any of his class. He is in grade 10th rn and has a very good social life. He is allowed to invite friends for his birthdays. He even has a girlfriend. He has never been pressured to perform academically ever in his life. He isnt good at sports too but is still allowed to play them regularly. they pay for his cricket coaching whereas I remember them telling me they wont spend useless money on my tennis coaching. I know this guy will not get above 90% in his boards in march but that will never be a problem because he doesnt need to. He'll probably inherit all my dad's business which I have no problem with but I still hate everyone in my family for treating me so differently. I used to and still have absolutely zero self confidence, no social skills nothing. When I tried to confront my parents about this they brought up all the thing they blight me when I was younger which is true I was never deprived of material things was quite privilleged in that sense but I remember my mom always telling me how shes paying more than a lakh/year for my school everytime I scored low in some test even in 2nd 3rd grade, they dont ever say these kinds of things to my brother i just want die bhenchod im done with life. either ill kill these three or ill kill myself.

this probably has a lot of errors but im teary eyed rn this is the best i could do