SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. By way of present writ petition filed under Article 226 of
 Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 (‗ Cr.P.C .'), the petitioner seeks grant of following
 reliefs: 2. The background facts, as disclosed in the petition, are that the
 family of petitioner owns Krrish group of companies and has been in
 business of Breweries and Distilleries since the year 1983, and in the
 real estate business also since 2008. It is stated that the company
 namely M/s Iceberg Industries Ltd. (previously known as Iceberg
 Consultants Limited) was incorporated in the year 1994 and the
 petitioner had become its whole-time director from the date of its
 incorporation. The said company, for the purpose of setting up a
 Distillery and Brewery plant had purchased a land of approximately
 12 acres in Bihta, Bihar and the petitioner had then set up a plant for
 Distillery in Bihar under the company M/s Iceberg Industries Ltd. It
 is stated that since the petitioner's distillery was operating in Bihar,
 the petitioner had started purchasing small chunks of lands/plots in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 2 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 Bihar for the purpose of expansion or storage, in the name of several
 companies such as M/s In-Shape Health & Resorts Pvt. Ltd., M/s
 Iceberg Hotel & Resorts Ltd., and M/s AK Infosystem Pvt. Ltd.
 during the years 2006-2011. It is stated that one of the properties
 ad-measuring 9527 sq. ft. purchased by M/s AK Infosystem Pvt. Ltd.
 in the year 2007, situated in Rupaspur, Danapur, Patna, Bihar, was
 purchased for a sale consideration of Rs.10,83,000/-, paid in cash and
 the owner of the said land Sh. Hazari Rai was relative of one of the
 recruits in Group-D in Railway Department. 3. It is stated that the distillery at Bihar owned by M/s Iceberg
 Industries Ltd. was sold to American Beer company namely M/s
 Molson Coors International. It is stated that after selling the brewery,
 the petitioner was in a process to wind up his business and properties
 in Bihar. It is stated that M/s Iceberg Industries Ltd. was also sold to
 M/s Molson Coors International by means of transfer of complete
 shareholding. Later, the petitioner had also resigned from the
 Directorship of M/s Iceberg Industries Ltd. and had completely
 exited the company. It is submitted that the company M/s AK
 Infosystem Pvt. Ltd. was sold to Smt. Rabri Devi and Sh. Tej Partap
 Yadav (family members of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav) by means of
 transfer of complete shareholding, and later, the petitioner had also
 resigned from the Directorship of the said company and had
 completely exited the company. It is stated that the petitioner had
 received complete money with respect to sale conducted for his
 company from family of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav in 2017. In this
 regard, it is also stated that when the company was transferred to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 3 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 family members of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav, he or his family were not
 holding any portfolio in the government, thus, there was no embargo
 in selling the company to them. 4. It is stated that Central Bureau of Investigation ('CBI'),
 Economic Offence-II branch, New Delhi had registered an RC
 bearing No. RC2202022E0007 dated 18.05.2022 under Section
 120-B of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC ') and Sections 11 / 12 / 13(2) read with 13(1) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (' PC Act ')
 against the then Railway Minister Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav and others,
 for entering into a criminal conspiracy to abuse official position in
 order to obtain pecuniary benefits in the form of land parcels being
 transferred to his family members and companies thereof in return for
 appointment to the post of substitute (Group-‗D') under the various
 zones of the Indian Railways (commonly known as Job for Land
 Scam). It is stated that as per allegations in the RC, seven land parcels
 ad-measuring about 1,05,292 sq. feet, situated at Patna, Bihar were
 acquired by the family members of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav from
 different persons through five sale deeds and two gift deeds. It is
 further stated that Directorate of Enforcement had registered an ECIR
 bearing No. 31/DLZO/2022 on 16.08.2022 on the basis of predicate
 offences in the RC registered by CBI and had taken up investigation
 under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 ('PMLA'). 5. It is the case of petitioner that during this period, he was
 summoned by the CBI on several occasions and he had appeared
 before the agency on every occasion and duly co-operated in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 4 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 investigation. It is stated that the investigation in the CBI case had
 culminated into a chargesheet filed by EO-II, CBI, New Delhi before
 the Special CBI Court, Rouse Avenue, New Delhi, wherein the
 petitioner has been made a prosecution witness, after conducting
 detailed investigation with respect to the petitioner. Thus, it is stated
 that the petitioner was absolved from commission of any scheduled
 offence in the predicate offence case and was rather named as a
 witness. 6. It is stated that after registration of the ECIR, the petitioner had
 been summoned by the Directorate of Enforcement several times and
 he had duly appeared before the agency on six occasions and duly
 submitted various documents as and when directed by the agency.
 However, it is stated that despite co-operating in the investigation and
 despite not being an accused in the predicate offence, is being
 repeatedly called and grilled by the Directorate of Enforcement since
 he had a business transaction with the family members of Sh. Lalu
 Prasad Yadav. It is also stated that the questions asked by the CBI
 and the Directorate of Enforcement are similar as they are
 investigating the same transaction. It is further stated that despite
 providing all the possible assistance, raids were conducted at the
 premises of petitioner and a Look Out Circular was opened against
 the petitioner at the behest of respondent and the said fact had come
 to the knowledge of petitioner when the respondent had filed an
 affidavit in another Writ Petition which is pending before this Court
 pertaining to seeking permission to travel abroad qua a loan
 transaction with Union Bank of India where respondent is a performa Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 5 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 party. 7. It is also stated that on 10.03.2023, the respondent had
 conducted searches at the various premises including the residence of
 the petitioner and at several offices of the Companies where
 petitioner had remained as Director at some point of time, and certain
 cash, documents, mobile phone, laptop, etc. were seized during the
 search. 8. The grievance of the petitioner is that the Directorate of
 Enforcement has now summoned him vide two impugned notices
 whereby he has been called upon to produce more than 20 years old
 documents which are not related to the petitioner in any manner as he
 is no longer associated with any of the entities of which documents
 are summoned and those entities were sold long back in the year
 2010-11 to other international and national companies and thus, the
 said documents could not be produced by him. It is stated that from
 the conduct of the respondent i.e. seizing the material and further
 issuing the Look Out Circular against the petitioner shows that the
 respondent is implicating the petitioner in the ECIR, which is not
 permissible under law and the proceedings are liable to be quashed. ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER 9. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner argues that the
 petitioner has been absolved from the schedule offences in the RC
 registered by the CBI and thus, the proceedings under PMLA are not
 maintainable in terms of the law laid down in case of Vijay Madanlal
 Choudhary v. Union of India 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929. In this Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 6 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 regard, it is submitted that the petitioner is not even an accused in the
 predicate offence and since there is no predicate offence against the
 petitioner, the question of the ECIR being sustained against the
 petitioner in isolation does not arise, as also held by this Court in the
 case of Harish Fabiani v. Enforcement Directorate 2022 SCC
 OnLine Del 3121. It is further submitted that in the scheduled offence
 wherein the CBI has registered an RC, the statement of the petitioner
 had been recorded under Section 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. and the
 petitioner has been cited as a witness in the chargesheet filed by the
 CBI, and thus, the proceedings under PMLA cannot be initiated
 against the petitioner. 10. It is also argued that as per Section 44 of the PMLA, the
 prosecution by CBI and by the Directorate of Enforcement is to be
 tried together by the same judge, and therefore, it would give rise to a
 situation where the petitioner is a witness in the case registered by the
 CBI and will be an accused in the case registered by the Directorate
 of Enforcement. 11. Thus, the case of the petitioner as argued by the learned Senior
 Counsel is summed up as under: ARGUMENTS ADDRESSED ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT 12. Learned Special Counsel for the respondent/Directorate of
 Enforcement, while opposing the present petition, argues that the
 prayer in this petition seeking quashing of ECIR against the
 petitioner herein is not maintainable. In this regard, reliance is placed
 on the decision in case of Hukum Chand Garg & Anr. v. State of
 Uttar Pradesh & Ors. SPL (Crl.) No. 762/2020 to argue that a person
 who is not named in the ECIR has no locus to seek relief such as
 quashing of ECIR. It is further argued that in the garb of a petition
 filed under Article 226 of Constitution and Section 482 of Cr.P.C.,
 the petitioner is essentially seeking anticipatory bail, and such a
 practice has time and again been frowned upon by the Hon'ble Apex
 Court. 13. It is argued by learned Special Counsel that the present ECIR
 pertains to the Railway Job for Land Scam and the respondent agency
 is investigating the trail of proceeds of crime, and the role of
 petitioner is also being investigated for which impugned summons
 have been issued to him to appear before the respondent with the
 necessary documents, etc. It is further submitted that the issue being
 raised by the petitioner stands settled in case of Vijay Madanlal
 Choudhary (supra) that the offence of money laundering is an
 independent offence and one need not be named as an accused in the
 predicate offence. 14. As regards the contention qua Section 44 of PMLA raised by
 the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner and the argument that
 petitioner is a witness in the predicate offence, it is submitted by the
 learned Special Counsel for respondent that a similar argument was
 earlier rejected by a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in case of Benoy Babu v. Directorate of Enforcement 2023 SCC OnLine Del
 3771. 15. Therefore, in view of aforesaid submissions, it is prayed that
 present petition be dismissed. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 16. The event that prompts the petitioner to approach this Court is
 the issuance of summons bearing number PMLA/SUMMON/DLZO/
 2023/1542, dated 06.10.2023, under Section 50(2)(3) of PMLA by
 the Directorate of Enforcement to the petitioner vide which he has
 been asked to appear before the investigating officer on 09.10.2023. 17. As per the case set out by the petitioner, he apprehends that in
 light of the recent conduct of the Directorate of Enforcement i.e.
 conducting raids at his premises, he may be arrested in the present
 ECIR if he joins investigation in compliance of the summons
 received, and accordingly, he has sought quashing of the summons
 issued by the Directorate of Enforcement. 18. Since the petitioner has sought quashing of impugned
 summons, it shall be germane to consider the position of law in this
 regard. At the outset, this Court deems it most appropriate to
 reproduced Section 50 of PMLA, which reads as under: 19. The Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Vijay Madanlal
 Choudhary (supra) has made the following discussion on the scope
 of Section 50 and the power to issue summons therein: In respect of such action, the designated officials have
 been empowered to summon any person for collection of
 information and evidence to be presented before the
 Adjudicating Authority. It is not necessarily for initiating
 a prosecution against the noticee as such. The power
 entrusted to the designated officials under this Act,
 though couched as investigation in real sense, is to
 undertake inquiry to ascertain relevant facts to facilitate
 initiation of or pursuing with an action regarding proceeds
 of crime, if the situation so warrants and for being
 presented before the Adjudicating Authority. It is a
 different matter that the information and evidence so
 collated during the inquiry made, may disclose
 commission of offence of money-laundering and the
 involvement of the person, who has been summoned for
 making disclosures pursuant to the summons issued by
 the Authority. At this stage, there would be no formal
 document indicative of likelihood of involvement of such
 person as an accused of offence of money-laundering. If
 the statement made by him reveals the offence of
 money-laundering or the existence of proceeds of crime,
 that becomes actionable under the Act itself. To put it Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 12 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 differently, at the stage of recording of statement for the
 purpose of inquiring into the relevant facts in connection
 with the property being proceeds of crime is, in that sense,
 not an investigation for prosecution as such; and in any
 case, there would be no formal accusation against the
 noticee. Such summons can be issued even to witnesses in
 the inquiry so conducted by the authorised officials.
 However, after further inquiry on the basis of other
 material and evidence, the involvement of such person
 (noticee) is revealed, the authorised officials can certainly
 proceed against him for his acts of commission or
 omission. In such a situation, at the stage of issue of
 summons, the person cannot claim protection under Article 20(3) of the Constitution. However, if his/her
 statement is recorded after a formal arrest by the ED
 official, the consequences of Article 20(3) or Section 25 of the Evidence Act may come into play to urge that the
 same being in the nature of confession, shall not be
 proved against him. Further, it would not preclude the
 prosecution from proceeding against such a person
 including for consequences under Section 63 of the 2002
 Act on the basis of other tangible material to indicate the
 falsity of his claim. That would be a matter of rule of
 evidence.‖ 20. On behalf of the respondent, reliance has been placed upon
 decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Kirit Shrimankar v.
 Union of India & Ors . W.P.(Crl.) No. 109/2013, wherein the writ
 petitions had been filed on the ground of apprehension of getting
 arrested under provisions of Customs Act, 1962 because the officers
 concerned had conducted a search at the residence of ex-wife of
 petitioner therein. Though the writ petitions therein were dismissed
 as withdrawn, it was observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court that the
 petition was highly premature based on averments which in no way
 could be termed as prima facie apprehension of arrest. Relevant
 observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are extracted hereunder: It was further averred therein that the Officers threatened
 that the petitioner would be arrested, incarcerated in jail
 and would face dire consequence if he would not submit
 to their dictates. On that basis the writ petition came to be
 filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of
 India. We, therefore, expressed that it was highly
 premature for the petitioner to seek for extraordinary
 constitutional remedy under Article 32 of the Constitution
 of India based on such flimsy averments contained in the
 writ petition, inasmuch as such averments cannot form
 the basis for a prima facie apprehension of arrest. We,
 therefore, also expressed that the writ petition does not
 merit any consideration to be dealt with on the various
 issues raised, inasmuch as it will be for the petitioner to
 work out his remedy as and when any appropriate
 positive action is taken against the petitioner. In the
 course of hearing, learned Senior Counsel appearing for
 the petitioner now seeks to withdraw the writ petition
 reserving petitioner's liberty to work out his remedy in
 future, if any such situation arises...‖ 21. In case of Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta v. M.M.
 Exports (2010) 15 SCC 647, the Hon'ble Apex Court, while dealing
 with a case of issuance of summons under Section 108 of Customs
 Act, had expressed that except in exceptional cases, High Courts
 should not interfere at the stage of issuance of summons. The
 relevant observations read as under: 22. A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Virbhadra Singh v.
 Enforcement Directorate 2017 SCC OnLine Del 8930, while
 refusing to quash the summons issued under Section 50 of PMLA,
 had made the following important observations: The law declares that every such person who is
 summoned is bound to state the truth. At the time of such
 investigative process, the person summoned is not an
 accused. Mere registration of ECIR does not make a
 person an accused. He may eventually turn out to be an
 accused upon being arrested or upon being prosecuted.
 No person is entitled in law to evade the command of the
 summons issued under Section 50 PMLA on the ground
 that there is a possibility that he may be prosecuted in the
 future. The law declared in Nandini Satpathy (supra)
 concerning the statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C.
 recorded by the police, and in other pronouncements
 concerning similar powers of officers of the Customs
 Department, as noted earlier, provide a complete answer
 to the apprehensions that have been expressed. *** 146. There is nothing shown to the court from which it
 could be inferred that the issuance of summons by the
 respondents to the petitioners for investigation into the
 ECIR, in exercise of statutory powers, has caused, or has
 the effect of causing, any prejudice to any of them...‖ 23. Thus, it is significant to note at this juncture that the power
 conferred upon the authorities by virtue of Section 50 of PMLA
 empower them to summon ‗any person' whose attendance may be
 crucial either to give some evidence or to produce any records during
 the course of investigation or proceedings under PMLA. The
 petitioner herein has been summoned vide impugned notice dated
 06.10.2023 whereby he has been called upon to submit certain
 documents and records, which are deemed necessary by the
 Directorate of Enforcement for the purpose of investigation in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 16 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 Railway Job for Land Scam case, for which the present ECIR has
 been registered. 24. A perusal of the chargesheet filed by the CBI in the predicate
 offence, and the reply filed by Directorate of Enforcement in another
 writ petition i.e. W.P.(C) 16957/2022 preferred by the petitioner in
 some other case for seeking permission to travel abroad, both of
 which have been placed on record by the petitioner, throws light on
 the position of the petitioner in the alleged Railway Job for Land
 Scam. To put it succinctly, the petitioner herein was the Director and
 major shareholder of M/s. AK lnfosystem Pvt Ltd at the time when
 the company had received land parcel from relative of a candidate,
 who was selected as Group-D substitute in Indian Railways, and
 later, the said company had been handed over to the family members
 of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav in 2014 by the petitioner without getting
 any monetary benefits. It is also the case of Directorate of
 Enforcement that the proceeds of crime were utilised to purchase a
 property in New Friends Colony, New Delhi, which was purchased in
 the name of one company namely M/s. AB Exports Private Limited,
 and the petitioner who was a close aid of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav had
 applied for the electricity connection at the said property, to allegedly
 facilitate its enjoyment at the hands of Sh. Lalu Prasad Yadav and his
 family members. 25. Thus, the investigation in the present ECIR is still continuing
 and the petitioner has merely been summoned to appear and submit
 certain documents. Even as per the own case of petitioner, he has
 joined investigation in the present ECIR upon being summoned by Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 17 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 the Directorate of Enforcement on six occasions in past, between
 March till August 2023. Thus, no tenable grounds have been shown
 now as to why the impugned summons deserve to be quashed. 26. Even otherwise, as held in several judicial precedents
 discussed above, this Court cannot throttle the investigative process
 at the stage of issuance of summons to the petitioner. 27. The other alternate relief sought by the petitioner is for
 quashing of present ECIR qua the petitioner. However, having
 examined the records of the case and the law on point, this Court is of
 the opinion that the prayer for quashing of ECIR is highly premature
 in the present case, for the reasons discussed in the succeeding
 paragraphs. 28. Firstly, it is crucial to note that on one hand, the petitioner
 states that he is not in possession of the copy of ECIR and is not
 aware about its contents including as to whether he has been named
 in the ECIR or not, and on the other, he prays for quashing of ECIR
 insofar as it relates to him. Thus, the inherent contradiction lies in the
 fact that though the petitioner himself does not know whether he is
 accused or not in the ECIR and states that he apprehends his
 implication in the case merely because he is being repeatedly
 summoned, at the same time, he has filed this petition for quashing of
 ECIR. 29. Secondly, the petitioner has not placed on record the copy of
 ECIR which is sought to be quashed since he is not in possession of
 the same. In this regard, it is relevant to note that it is not mandatory
 for the Directorate of Enforcement to furnish a copy of ECIR to the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 18 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 person who is under investigation, as held by Hon'ble Apex Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), and the petitioner herein has
 only been summoned under Section 50 of PMLA. 30. During the course of arguments, one of the contentions raised
 by the learned Special Counsel for Directorate of Enforcement was
 also that ‗a person who is named in the ECIR cannot seek its
 quashing', and in this regard, the attention of this Court was also
 drawn by learned Special Counsel to the judgment titled Hukum
 Chand Garg & Ors. v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors . SLP(Crl.)
 No. 762/2020 of the Hon'ble Apex Court in which it was held as
 under: 31. Thus, in these circumstances, when the petitioner has only
 been summoned under Section 50 of PMLA, and the ECIR is not
 available on record, nor the petitioner has made out any ground at
 this stage for which this Court should pass any direction to call upon
 the respondent to place before this Court a copy of ECIR, which is
 also one of the prayers in this petition, this Court is of the opinion
 that the prayer for quashing of ECIR is premature and without any
 merit. 32. Before proceeding any further, it will also be important to
 appreciate the argument raised on behalf of petitioner that since the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 19 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 petitioner has not been made an accused, but rather a witness in the
 predicate offence by the CBI, he cannot be made an accused in the
 PMLA case by the Directorate of Enforcement. 33. In this regard, reliance was placed upon the following
 observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Vijay Madanlal
 Choudhary (supra): laundering. The Authorities under the 2002 Act cannot
 prosecute any person on notional basis or on the
 assumption that a scheduled offence has been committed,
 unless it is so registered with the jurisdictional police
 and/or pending enquiry/trial including by way of criminal
 complaint before the competent forum. If the person is
 finally discharged/acquitted of the scheduled offence or
 the criminal case against him is quashed by the Court of
 competent jurisdiction, there can be no offence of money-
 laundering against him or any one claiming such property
 being the property linked to stated scheduled offence
 through him.‖ 34. Reliance was also placed upon judgments of Hon'ble Apex
 Court in case of Parvathi Kollur v. State 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1975,
 Indrani Patnaik v. Enforcement Directorate W.P.(C) No. 368/2021
 and of Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court in case of Harish
 Fabiani (supra), in which the aforesaid principle laid down in case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) was followed. 35. To rebut these argument, reliance on behalf of respondent/
 Directorate of Enforcement was placed on the following observations
 of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) to argue that the offence of money laundering is independent
 offence and one need not be named as an accused in the predicate
 offence: 36. There can be no two views about the law laid down by the
 Three-judge Bench of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Vijay
 Madanlal Choudhary (supra) whereby it has been held that if a
 person is finally discharged/acquitted of the scheduled offence or the
 criminal case against him is quashed by the Court, there can be no
 offence of money laundering against him, as argued on behalf of
 petitioner. 37. However, the facts of the present case are entirely
 distinguishable and the ratio of the aforesaid decisions cannot be
 made applicable to the present case for the following reasons: 38. Therefore, the argument that petitioner, being not an accused
 or being a witness in the predicate offence, cannot be made an
 accused in the ECIR is also premature to raise and deal with at this
 stage, in view of the reasons stated hereinabove. 39. The third prayer of the petitioner relates to directing the
 Directorate of Enforcement to not take any coercive steps against the
 petitioner in the present ECIR. 40. In this regard, this Court notes that the petitioner herein in the
 past has been summoned by the Directorate of Enforcement on about Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 23 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 six occasions, as per the own case of petitioner, and has not been
 arrested till date. It is also not in dispute that the petitioner has also
 not been arrested by the CBI in the RC pertaining to predicate
 offence. Merely because once again a summon has been issued under
 Section 50 of PMLA, no case for grant of no-coercive steps can be
 made out. It is also clear as per the scheme of PMLA that power to
 issue summons under Section 50 of PMLA is different from the
 power to arrest under Section 19 of PMLA, and the issuance of
 summons to join investigation and give some evidence or document
 to the investigation agency cannot be presumed to culminate into the
 arrest of person being so summoned. By the decisions of Hon'ble
 Apex Court in cases of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), V.
 Senthil Balaji v. State 2023 SCC OnLine SC 934 and Pankaj Bansal
 v. Union of India 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1244, the law on exercise of
 power under Section 19 and the inherent safeguards therein and the
 duty of the concerned authority/officer to comply with the mandate
 of the Act also stands settled. 41. While adjudicating upon such a prayer, this Court deems it
 appropriate to refer to the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in case
 of Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra &
 Ors. 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315, whereby the Hon'ble Apex Court
 had cautioned the High Courts to not pass order of ‗no-coercive
 steps' in petitions filed under Article 226 of Constitution of India or Section 482 of Cr.P.C. since the same essentially reduces such
 proceedings to the nature of anticipatory bails. The observations of
 the Hon'ble Apex Court in this regard read as under: Therefore, we again reiterate the law laid down by this
 Court in the case of Habib Abdullah Jeelani (supra) and
 we direct all the High Courts to scrupulously follow the
 law laid down by this Court in the case of Habib
 Abdullah Jeelani (supra) and the law laid down by this Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 25 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 Court in the present case, which otherwise the High
 Courts are bound to follow. We caution the High Courts
 again against passing such orders of not to arrest or ―no
 coercive steps to be taken‖ till the investigation is
 completed and the final report is filed, while not
 entertaining quashing petitions under Section 482 Cr.
 P.C. and/or Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 42. A similar prayer seeking no-coercive steps upon issuance of
 summons under Section 50 of PMLA was sought by the petitioner in Ashish Mittal v. Directorate of Enforcement 2023 SCC OnLine Del
 6678 and while declining to grant such a relief, the Co-ordinate
 Bench had observed that since the remedy under Section 438 of
 Cr.P.C. i.e. anticipatory bail was available to the petitioner in case he
 apprehended any arrest in the ECIR, the question of granting any
 interim relief of no-coercive steps did not arise. The relevant
 observations are reproduced hereunder for reference: P.C. ex-ante i.e., prior to both arrest and accusation. To
 interpret the provisions of section 438 differently in the
 context of PMLA would be contrary to two Constitution
 Bench decisions of the Supreme Court in Gurbaksh Singh
 Sibbia (supra) and Sushila Aggarwal (supra), which Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 26 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 expressly lay-down that the filing of an FIR, viz. formal
 accusation, is not a condition precedent for filing an
 application under section 438 Cr. P.C. 48. For completeness, it may also be noticed that section
 65 of the PMLA makes the provisions of the Cr. P.C. applicable inter-alia to an arrest made under PMLA
 ―... insofar as they are not inconsistent with the
 provisions ...‖ of the PMLA. To be sure, though section
 71 of the PMLA contains a non-obstante clause, there is
 nothing in the PMLA which restricts the court from
 granting relief under section 438 Cr. P.C. in an
 appropriate case. The only rider being that the twin
 conditions in section 45 of the PMLA will also have to be
 satisfied. In the opinion of this court therefore, there is no
 requirement in law for a prosecution complaint to have
 been filed for a person to maintain an application under
 section 438 Cr.P.C. Save for the stringent twin-conditions
 contained in section 45 PMLA, there is no provision in
 the PMLA which modifies the provisions of
 section 438 Cr. P.C. 49. In fact it is the respondent's stand that the petition is
 not maintainable since the petitioner has no locus
 standi to seek quashing of an ECIR or the prosecution
 complaint in which he is not an accused. The Satpathy v.
 PL Dani , (1978) 2 SCC 424 at para 21 respondent has
 also said that there is an alternate, efficacious remedy
 available to the petitioner, by way of an application
 seeking anticipatory bail under section 438 Cr. P.C.,
 which remedy he would be entitled to seek at the
 appropriate stage...‖ 43. Therefore, considering the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
 Court and the facts of the present case, no case is made out for
 directing the respondent to not take any coercive steps against the
 petitioner. 44. Thus, in view of the foregoing discussion and reasons stated
 above, this Court is not inclined to quash the impugned summons or
 the ECIR against the petitioner or to grant any relief of no-coercive Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 27 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17 steps as prayed by the petitioner. 45. Needless to say, the observations made hereinabove shall not
 be construed as opinion of this Court on the merits of the case and the
 same are for the sole purpose of deciding the present petition. 46. Accordingly, the present petition stands dismissed alongwith
 pending application. 47. The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 NOVEMBER 3, 2023/kd Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed W.P.(CRL.) 2981/2023 Page 28 of 28 By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:03.11.2023 20:08:17