The instant criminal misc. petitions have been preferred by

 the accused petitioners seeking quashing of FIR No. 36/2020

 registered at P.S. Mahila Thana, Distt. Alwar for the offences under Sections 376-D , 418 and 506 IPC. Bereft of elaborate details, the brief facts necessary for the

 disposal of these petitions are that at the behest of the

 complainant-respondent no.2, on 2.2.2020 the aforementioned

 FIR came to be lodged alleging inter alia that the prosecutrix is a

 jail guard deployed at Central Jail, Bikaner. In the year 2018, she

 was residing in a rented premises at Jaipur for the purpose of

 coaching for exams. One Dinesh Meena introduced her to the

 petitioner. One Siya Ram Meena, resident of village Nathalwada,

 who happens to be the relative of the complainant was also a

 tenant at the same premises. It is stated that said Dinesh Meena

 frequently used to visit the house where she and Siya Ram were

 residing and a good relationship had gradually developed between

 them. Dinesh Meena had taken her mobile number and often used

 to call on her mobile number. It is alleged in the FIR that Dinesh (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (3 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

Meena told the prosecutrix that a boy named Radha Kishan Meena

(the present petitioner) is serving in the Department of Customs

at Gujarat and would be a suitable groom for her. The prosecutrix

narrated all the things to her brother and other relatives. It is

specifically mentioned in the FIR that brothers of the prosecutrix

had bluntly refused to get the prosecutrix married with the

present petitioner, rather the middleman Dinesh Meena was also

sensitized not to make call to her in this regard. It is also alleged

in the FIR that thereafter the accused petitioner frequently used to

call her and she was coaxed to marry with him, for which

ultimately the prosecutrix had consented. It is alleged that on

18.4.2018, she was called by the petitioner to meet with him,

upon which she left her house and went outside the village, where

the petitioner met her and she sat as a pillion rider on the motor

cycle driven by the petitioner. It is alleged that she wanted to go

to Jodhpur for physical examination related to recruitment process

and for that purpose she asked the petitioner to drop her at

Rajgarh Railway Station, but the accused did not stop the bike and

took her away to Malviya Nagar, Alwar at the residence of a

relative of accused petitioner. As per allegations, the prosecutrix

was induced by the accused to develop physical relations and she

surrendered herself before him on account of promise to marry

her. The act of establishing the physical relationship, is alleged to

have been done on 19.4.2018 at Malviya Nagar, Alwar at the

residence of one Lekh Raj. After the incident, the prosecutrix was

taken through a Motor Cycle to Bandikui Station, wherefrom she

boarded to Jodhpur for the purpose of her physical examination on

the post of Jail Constable. It is further alleged that after that

incident, on several occasions, she was made to establish physical (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (4 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

relation with the petitioner on account of the promise that the

accused would marry her. Another incident, as shown in the FIR, is

that when she was studying at Jaipur, on 18.6.2018, the accused

came to her rented house and developed physical relationship with

her. It is alleged that though she was not willing to surrender of

her own accord but consented to it owing to the promise made by

the petitioner that he would marry her, and that is why she

submitted herself before the accused. It is further alleged that

thereafter on several occasions, sexual inter-course was

committed upon her at different places and lastly when she made

a protest, she was threatened that an obscene video has been

made with the petitioner in a compromising situation and if any

report is moved, he will make the video viral in order to disrepute

her in the society. After this incident, she has been continuously

subjected to intercourse on account of threat of dire

consequences. It is alleged in the FIR that family members of the

prosecutrix have also complained to the brother of the petitioner

to convince the petitioner to marry with prosecutrix, but to no

avail as the accused did not agree to marry with her. It is alleged

that she was seduced by the petitioner on the false pretext that he

will marry her. On the basis of the said report, the afore-mentioned FIR got

registered and investigation in the matter is underway. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the

allegations leveled in the FIR regarding ravishing hereby the

petitioner are patently false and absurd and the same are leveled

only to harass them. It is submitted that even the Investigating (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (5 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

Agency has sent a letter to the office of the Deputy Commissioner

of Customs, Porbandar asking for providing information regarding

the attendance of the petitioner for the month of April and June,

2018 wherein the Department of Customs replied to the Agency

that the accused petitioner did not take any leave in the month of

April & June, 2018, the copies of which are annexed with the

petition. According to the counsel for the petitioner, allegations

regarding the particular date of committing the offence, have been

belied and negated in the light of the letter of the Department of

Customs. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there are

major discrepancies and contradictions in the complaint filed by

the complainant on 17.12.2019 addressed to the Women

Commission, Jaipur and the FIR as lodged on 2.2.2020. The

allegations in the FIR have been exaggerated and modified to a

great extent. Learned counsel drew attention of this court towards

the messages exchanged in between the petitioner and the

complainant on WhatsApp platform and submitted that a bare

perusal of the same would fortify the plea of the petitioner that a

false case has been foisted upon him and attention was also

drawn on several messages where the complainant gave warning

and threats to the petitioner, if the accused did not agree to marry

her. At one point, she even threatened to commit suicide if the

accused would not marry her. The inordinate delay in lodging the

FIR has also been questioned. It is submitted that no reasonable

explanation has been furnished as to why the complainant had

kept mum for a long time even after the cause of action had

arisen for reporting the case. As per his submissions, the cause of (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (6 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

action had arisen for the complainant to lodge the FIR after the

incident of 18.6.2018 and thereafter in the year 2019 when she

was bluntly refused for the marriage, still the report came to be

lodged on 2.2.2020. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that

even if the allegations as leveled in the FIR are taken on their face

value or in their entirety, no case of rape as defined under Section

375 and 376 IPC is made out since the complainant is a grown up

lady, aged of 24 years and a literate one, who is serving as a

constable and knows her good and bad pretty well. If as per

allegations, she submitted herself before the accused petitioner,

then it could be presumed that it was a consensual sexual

relationship between two major persons and the same would not

fall under the penal provisions of Section 376 IPC. Thus, he prayed

for quashing of the FIR and all consequential proceedings pending

against the petitioner. Learned counsel for the complainant, and learned Public

Prosecutor for the State have submitted that there are no grounds

for quashing of FIR. From the bare perusal of FIR, commission of

cognizable offence is disclosed which requires investigation. It is

submitted that at the stage of quashing of FIR, the appreciation of

evidence is not required to be made nor the High Court is

supposed to make an enquiry to ascertain the reliability or

genuineness of the case as alleged in the FIR. It is submitted that

it is a clear case of seducement on account of false promise to

marry with the young girl, therefore, jointly prayed for dismissal of

the petitions. (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (7 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

 Heard learned counsel for the parties and gone through the

entire material available on record. A perusal of the record shows that there is not an iota of

evidence to show or suggest that right from the inception, the

intent of accused petitioner was to deceive the woman to convince

her to engage in sexual relationship. There are no allegations in

the FIR that at what point of time, the petitioner made a false

promise to marry the complainant or whether it was done in bad

faith or only with an intention to deceive her. The failure of the

accused in the year 2020 to fulfill his promise made by him to

prosecutrix in the year 2018 cannot be construed to mean that the

promise itself was false. The allegations in the FIR indicate that

the prosecutrix continued to engage in sexual relationship with the

petitioner for a long period of two years and several occasions

have been reported when she was made to establish physical

relationship. Why did the complainant allow the accused to have

inter-course with her on different dates, at different places and

even at different intervals? It can be manifested from the bare

perusal of the FIR that the complainant used to live alone at

different places. The accused is not the resident of the same

place, rather he was serving in the Department of Customs at

Porbandar, Gujarat. There is no material on the basis of which it

could be assumed that she was deceived by the accused on

account of false promise of marriage. Therefore, even if the facts

as set out in the report, as also in her statements, are taken in

their entirety, no offence under Section 375 IPC is made out. The

messages exchanged between the parties also suggest that (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (8 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

atleast no offence, as alleged, can be brought under the ambit of Section 375 of IPC. The excuses taken regarding consent given

under misconception are prima facie appears to be flimsy and

unconvincing. As per her own contention, she was supposed to

reach Jodhpur to appear in physical exams, instead thereof she

went with the petitioner at Alwar in a very clandestine manner;

stayed few hours with the accused at Alwar and thereafter

proceeded to Jodhpur. As per her allegations, the act of

seducement was done at Alwar, Jaipur, Jodhpur and other places. The information provided by the Department of Customs also

shows that at the relevant point of time, when the offence was

allegedly committed, the petitioner was not on leave. Indisputably there is a major discrepancy and conflict

between the report submitted by the prosecutrix to the Women

Commission at Jaipur and the impugned FIR which got lodged

after few days of moving the complaint to the Commission. The

major alteration & embellishment made in the FIR impugned also

casts a serious doubt over the genuineness of allegations. A perusal of a number of WhatsApp messages exchanged

between the parties completely negates the story as set out in the

FIR impugned. It is revealed from the FIR that the accused had refused to

marry with the petitioner; but it is not mentioned at what point of

time. However, it reflects that somewhere in the year 2018, the

cause of action had arisen to the prosecutrix to sue the petitioner (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (9 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

but no action was taken by her; rather, on the contrary, even

thereafter she continued her relations with the petitioner. No video

clip or other material has been collected or produced by which

inference of threat can be drawn. Keeping mum for long in

reporting the matter also creates serious doubts in the story. It is

not disputed that the family members of the complainant did not

agree to solemnize her marriage with the petitioner. This is an unfortunate but routine case of a boy and a girl

having an affair, indulging into a sexual relationship and ultimately

ending into a breakup. Present is one of such cases where the

parties had consensual sexual relationship and were in love with

each other, however, the relationship become sour by the lapse of

time. In every case of rape, the act of sexual intercourse must be

forcible and without consent of the woman/lady. However, the

consent obtained by fraud amounts to no consent and therefore, if

the intercourse is done with consent but obtained by fraud, it

would amount to rape. If an illiterate woman is given promise to

marry and under that promise, her consent is obtained for sexual

intercourse, then, it can be said that the consent is obtained by

fraud. Here, in this case, the prosecutrix is an educated lady and

serving as a lady jail guard. Another instance would be that if

consent is obtained by hiding the identity or impersonation, then it

is a fraud. If a married man obtains consent of an unmarried girl

under the false pretext that he will marry her by concealing the

fact of his previous marriage, then the consent given by the young

girl shall be construed to be a consent obtained fraudulently and (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (10 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

thus it is no consent. Here, in this matter, both the parties are not

previously married. This court is of the considered view that when a woman is

married and educated, then, depending on facts of each case, she

is supposed to be well aware of the consequences of having sexual

intercourse with a man prior to solemnizing of the marriage. In

the event of a consent obtained by fraud, inducement is a

necessary ingredient. There must be some material on record to

hold prima facie that the girl was induced by the accused to such

an extent that she was in agreement to have sexual intercourse

with him. There are allegations in the FIR of repeatedly committing an

offence of rape, the punishment provisions for which are very

stringent and not less than 10 years. Thus, on one hand, there is

question of the life and liberty of the accused in view of gravity of

the punishment and on the other hand, the mental trauma and

physical sufferings of the girl. Both are required to be

appropriately considered with a balanced view. In the case of Mahesh Balkrishna Dandane Vs. State of

Maharashtra , 2014 (4) Crimes 37 (Bom.), decided on

12.3.2014, the Bombay High Court while dealing with a case of

identical nature, observed as under: alleged by the complainant is the Appellant's promise to
 marry her. Specifically in the context of a promise to
 marry, this Court has observed that there is a distinction
 between a false promise given on the understanding by (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (12 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

the maker that it will be broken, and the breach of a
promise which is made in good faith but subsequently
not fulfilled. In Anurag Soni v. State of Chhattisgarh , this
Court held: (SCC para 12)
 "12. The sum and substance of the aforesaid
 decisions would be that if it is established and
 proved that from the inception the Accused who
 gave the promise to the prosecutrix to marry, did
 not have any intention to marry and the
 prosecutrix gave the consent for sexual
 intercourse on such an assurance by the Accused
 that he would marry her, such a consent can be
 said to be a consent obtained on a misconception
 of fact as per Section 90 of the Indian Penal Code
 and, in such a case, such a consent would not
 excuse the offender and such an offender can be
 said to have committed the rape as defined Under Sections 375 of the Indian Penal Code and can be
 convicted for the offence Under Section 376 IPC." Similar observations were made by this Court in
 Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana ("Deepak
 Gulati"): (SCC p.682, para 21)

 "21. ... There is a distinction between the mere
 breach of a promise, and not fulfilling a false
 promise. Thus, the court must examine whether
 that was made, at an early stage a false promise
 of marriage by the Accused.... 16. Where the promise to marry is false and the
intention of the maker at the time of making the
promise itself was not to abide by it but to deceive the
woman to convince her to engage in sexual relations,
there is a "misconception of fact" that vitiates the
woman's "consent". On the other hand, a breach of a
promise cannot be said to be a false promise. To
establish a false promise, the maker of the promise
should have had no intention of upholding his word at
the time of giving it. The "consent" of a woman Under Section 375 is vitiated on the ground of a
"misconception of fact" where such misconception was
the basis for her choosing to engage in the said act. In
Deepak Gulati this Court observed: (SCC pp.682-84,
paras 21 & 24) (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (13 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020] 21. ... There is a distinction between the mere
 breach of a promise, and not fulfilling a false
 promise. Thus, the court must examine
 whether there was made, at an early stage a
 false promise of marriage by the Accused; and
 whether the consent involved was given after
 wholly understanding the nature and
 consequences of sexual indulgence. There may
 be a case where the prosecutrix agrees to have
 sexual intercourse on account of her love and
 passion for the Accused, and not solely on
 account of misrepresentation made to her by
 the Accused, or where an Accused on account
 of circumstances which he could not have
 foreseen, or which were beyond his control,
 was unable to marry her, despite having every
 intention to do so. Such cases must be treated
 differently. ... 24. Hence, it is evident that there must be
 adequate evidence to show that at the relevant
 time i.e. at the initial stage itself, the Accused
 had no intention whatsoever, of keeping his
 promise to marry the victim. There may, of
 course, be circumstances, when a person
 having the best of intentions is unable to marry
 the victim owing to various unavoidable
 circumstances. The "failure to keep a promise
 made with respect to a future uncertain date,
 due to reasons that are not very clear from the
 evidence available, does not always amount to
 misconception of fact. In order to come within
 the meaning of the term "misconception of
 fact", the fact must have an immediate
 relevance". Section 90 Indian Penal Code
 cannot be called into aid in such a situation, to
 pardon the act of a girl in entirety, and fasten
 criminal liability on the other, unless the court
 is assured of the fact that from the very
 beginning, the Accused had never really
 intended to marry her. 17. In Uday v. State of Karnataka (2003) 4 SCC 46 the
complainant was a college going student when the
Accused promised to marry her. In the complainant's
statement, she admitted that she was aware that there
would be significant opposition from both the
complainant's and Accused's families to the proposed
marriage. She engaged in sexual intercourse with the (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (14 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

Accused but nonetheless kept the relationship secret
from her family. The court observed that in these
circumstances the Accused's promise to marry the
complainant was not of immediate relevance to the
complainant's decision to engage in sexual intercourse
with the Accused, which was motivated by other factors: There was therefore a distinct possibility, of which
 she was clearly conscious, that the marriage may
 not take place at all despite the promise of the
 Appellant. The question still remains whether even if
 it were so, the Appellant knew, or had reason to
 believe, that the prosecutrix had consented to
 having sexual intercourse with him only as a
 consequence of her belief, based on his promise,
 that they will get married in due course. There is
 hardly any evidence to prove this fact. On the
 contrary, the circumstances of the case tend to
 support the conclusion that the Appellant had reason
 to believe that the consent given by the prosecutrix
 was the result of their deep love for each other. It is
 not disputed that they were deeply in love. They met
 often, and it does appear that the prosecutrix
 permitted him liberties which, if at all, are permitted
 only to a person with whom one is in deep love. It is
 also not without significance that the prosecutrix
 stealthily went out with the Appellant to a lonely
 place at 12 o'clock in the night. It usually happens in
 such cases, when two young persons are madly in
 love, that they promise to each other several times
 that come what may, they will get married... (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (15 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020] 18. To summarise the legal position that emerges from
 the above cases, the "consent" of a woman with respect
 to Section 375 must involve an active and reasoned
 deliberation towards the proposed act. To establish
 whether the "consent" was vitiated by a "misconception
 of fact" arising out of a promise to marry, two
 propositions must be established. The promise of
 marriage must have been a false promise, given in bad
 faith and with no intention of being adhered to at the
 time it was given. The false promise itself must be of
 immediate relevance, or bear a direct nexus to the
 woman's decision to engage in the sexual act."

 This court is aptly guided by the observations made by

Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of Pramod Suryabhan

Pawar (supra). Every criminal case has a feature, fact and

circumstance which is distinct from another case. After minutely

examining the facts, as narrated in the FIR, this court is of the

firm view that there is not an iota of evidence or whisper

regarding the fact that right from the inception, the accused was

having a dishonest intention; rather in juxtaposition, the facts

reveal that there was a consensual sexual relationship between

the parties and thus, no offence as alleged in the FIR is made out

for which the petitioner can be forced to face the rigor of a trial. In the considered view of this court, a breach of promise

cannot be said to be a false promise. To establish a false promise,

the maker of the promise should have had no intention of

upholding his words at the time of giving it. The consent of a

woman under Section 375 of IPC can be held vitiated only on the

ground of misconception of fact where such misconception was the (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (16 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

basis of her surrender for establishing physical relationship.

Likewise, prima facie there is no evidence to substantiate the

allegations regarding the offence under Sections 418 and 506 IPC

in view of observations made herein above. The Hon'ble Apex court has dealt with the proposition of law

pertaining to quashing of FIR/complaint/all criminal proceedings

initiated against an accused by High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. in catena of judgments. Particularly, in the case of Prashant Bharti v. State of NCT of Delhi , reported in AIR

2013 SC 2753, Hon'ble the Supreme Court has held as under: If the answer to all the steps is in the affirmative,
 judicial conscience of the High Court should persuade
 it to quash such criminal-proceedings, in exercise of
 power vested in it under Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure. Such exercise of power, besides
 doing justice to the accused, would save precious
 court time, which would otherwise be wasted in
 holding such a trial (as well as, proceedings arising
 therefrom) specially when, it is clear that the same
 would not conclude in the conviction of the accused. In the landmark decision of State of Haryana and Ors. Vs.

Ch. Bhajan Lal and Ors. [1992 Supp (1) SCC 335], the Apex

court has discussed the scope of powers of High Court to quash

FIR/complaint/all criminal proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C.

in detail and has determined such instances where

FIR/complaint/all criminal proceedings can be quashed. The

relevant part of the above-mentioned judgment reads as under: In view of over all discussions and observations made herein

above and guided by the principles laid down in Prashant Bharti v.

State of NCT of Delhi ( supra) and State of Haryana and Ors. Vs.

Ch. Bhajan Lal and Ors. (supra), I am of this firm view that the

present is a fit case which falls within the parameters laid down by Hon'ble the Supreme Court. Therefore, this court deems it

appropriate to allow the criminal misc. petitions and to quash the

proceedings that arose out of the FIR impugned. Accordingly, the criminal misc. petitions are allowed. The FIR

No. 36/2020 registered at P.S. Mahila Thana, Distt. Alwar for the

offences under Sections 376-D , 418 and 506 of IPC, and all

consequential proceedings undertaken in pursuance thereof, are (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) (20 of 20) [CRLMP-4952/2020]

 hereby quashed and set aside. The concerned SHO is directed to

 prepare a closure report of the case and to submit the same

 before the learned Magistrate concerned within a period of one

 month from the date of receipt of this order. (FARJAND ALI),J

 SANDEEP RAWAT /34-35 (Downloaded on 24/02/2022 at 09:15:37 PM) Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)