1. Petitioner, an accused in case bearing FIR No.223 dated

20.11.2025 registered against her at Police Station Jamalpur, District Police

Commisionerate Ludhiana, for the commission of offences punishable u/s

420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC, has prayed for grant of pre-arrest

bail. 2. Relevant facts as emerging from the documents on record be

noticed hereinbelow:- Police authorities also found out that Seema Rani-present

petitioner affixed her own photograph by misusing Aadhar Card No.XXX

XXXX 9575 and purchased sound bar from M/s Goyal Vision vide Bill

No.1154. She also purchased air-conditioner (Haier) vide Bill No.1156.

Later, Seema Rani (Petitioner) forged Aadhar Card of one Rano Bai and on

the strength of this Aadhar Card purchased a phone (I Phone-13). The third

accused also adopted the similar modus operandi. Finding substance in the allegations leveled by complainant, the

aforesaid FIR No.223 dated 20.11.2025, u/s 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and

120-B IPC , was registered against the petitioner and others. 3. Apprehending her arrest, petitioner moved an application for

grant of anticipatory bail before the learned Additional Sessions Judge,

Ludhiana. The same was dismissed vide order dated 22.01.2026. Aggrieved

of which, the present petition has been filed. 2 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2026 01:41:29 ::: CRM-M-11319-2026 3 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that petitioner has

been falsely implicated in the present case. Allegations leveled against her

are all frivolous. She never committed any fraud or forgery. In fact, she used

her own Aadhar Card No. XXX XXXX 9575 and purchased one sound bar

and air-conditioner from M/s Goyal Vision. It is further the submission of

learned counsel that at the time of purchasing, the articles were got financed

from Bajaj Finance Limited. Normally the shopkeepers with a view to verify

the identification details of the purchasers take the Biometrics but in the

present case feeling satisfied with the documents tendered by the petitioner

no Biometrics was conducted, thus indicating her innocence. Further, the

fact that the proceedings were got initiated after an unexplained delay of one

year itself raises doubt on the genuineness of story put forth by complainant

party. Moreover, in the absence of any explanation forthcoming, it can only

be inferred that the facts have been twisted and a coloured version has been

portrayed. Towards the end, learned counsel contends that petitioner, a

young woman, who has a minor daughter to take care of and whose husband

has also been falsely implicated, deserves a lenient view to be taken in her

favour, moreso when nothing is to be recovered from her, thus her custodial

interrogation is not needed. But nonetheless being a law-abiding citizen, she

(P) is willing to join the investigation as and when called for by the IO.

Primarily on these grounds, it was prayed that concession of pre-arrest bail

be granted to the petitioner. 5. Per contra, while opposing the request for grant of bail, learned

State counsel contends that petitioner and her husband came out with a noble

method of defrauding the finance company; they misused the Aadhar Cards

 3 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2026 01:41:29 ::: CRM-M-11319-2026 4 of other persons and kept on purchasing household items, electronic items,

furniture etc. by getting them financed from Bajaj Finance, but did not make

payment thereof. Thus, the custodial interrogation of petitioner is needed to

recover the purchased articles, to unearth as to who all are involved in this

racket, what is their modus operandi, how many such like frauds they have

already committed, the whereabouts of the other accused (none of whom has

been arrested till date; one of them being her husband). Towards the end, learned State counsel contends that in view of

factual scenario of the case in hand, submissions advanced hereinabove, no

case for grant of extraordinary relief of pre-arrest bail is made out. Dismissal

of the petition has been prayed for. 6. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone

through the documents on record. 7. Before expressing any opinion on the merits of the rival

contentions raised by learned counsel for the parties, it would be appropriate

to refer to certain relevant judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court, wherein the

factors to be kept in mind while dealing with an application for grant of

anticipatory bail, have been discussed. Hon'ble the Supreme Court in " P. Chidambaram vs.

Directorate of Enforcement , ((2020) 13 SCC 791), has observed as under:- Hon'ble the Supreme Court while deciding the case titled as

" Ms. X Vs. The State of Maharashtra and another ", (2023 SCC Online

SC 279) held as under:- 5 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2026 01:41:29 ::: CRM-M-11319-2026 6 (iii)severity of the punishment in the event of conviction; (iv)danger of the accused absconding or fleeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the accused; (vi) likelihood of the offence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being influenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of bail." In Nikita Jagganath Shetty @ Nikita Vishwajeet Jadhav vs.

The State of Maharashtra and another , 2025 AIR SC 3375, the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that "Anticipatory bail is an exceptional remedy and

ought not to be granted in a routine manner." 8. Factual aspects leading to the lodging of the FIR have already

been noted in para 2 of the order. It is apparent from the documents on

record that petitioner and her husband prepared forged Aadhar Cards, by

appending their own photographs on Aadhar Cards of some other persons,

thus on the strength of changed identity purchased the items (electronics,

household, furniture etc.) by getting them financed from the complainant

institution, but did not make payment. Initially, this fraud went unchecked.

But during internal audit, it came to the notice of financial institution that

petitioner and other accused had availed multiple loans by submitting forged

Aadhar Cards and impersonating others. Thus a systemic fraud was played

upon by petitioner, her husband and their third accomplice upon complainant

company (a financial institution). Agreeing with the submissions advanced by learned State

counsel, this Court is of the opinion that the custodial interrogation of

petitioner is needed to recover the illegally purchased items, to know the

whereabouts of the other accused, none of whom has been arrested (one of

them being husband of petitioner), what is their modus operandi and how

 6 of 7 ::: Downloaded on - 07-03-2026 01:41:29 ::: CRM-M-11319-2026 7 many such like frauds they have already committed. Thus, petitioner has

failed to make out a case of exceptional depravity/hardship in her favour,

entitling her for the grant of this extra ordinary relief of pre-arrest bail. 9. The petition being devoid of merit, is hereby dismissed.