SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Fathers of r/india who have a huge cultural gap with your children, how do you attempt to bridge that?
DATE: 2020-06-24
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/hf59xb/fathers_of_rindia_who_have_a_huge_cultural_gap/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm asking as the son of a father who is just over thirty years older than me, involved hugely in cultural activities whereas I firmly identify myself as a person of science. While the generational gap itself is immense, to me, the gap in interests is far, far wider. 

As a result of that, I frequently get into arguments with him, largely because he tends to yell whenever things tend not to go his way. This yelling could be triggered by anything, including but not limited to: trying to use his phone to google about the fresh dates for our exams (pre-college), pointing out his flawed logic when he says eating fruits at night causes diarrhea, or whenever he can't find something he himself misplaced. He can't listen to even constructive criticism, even when he himself asks for it,(he runs an experimental drama troupe where he wants to do this weird cringe-inducing campy show where an alien helps a village kid \[no more details, or I'll be identifiable\], and when he asked me if kids would "love" the show, I said they wouldn't attend unless there's something better in his show than watching The Avengers at home, and he said he never asked for my advice, even though he literally asked for it seconds ago. Since then, I've realized he only wants me to praise his work, even if it is a pile of horse-shit), and worst of all, he even piles my mother along in his complaining. 

For context, my mother works at the same place, at the same post as my father, and somehow, my mother has turned into this reserved, non-outgoing person with what I perceive is a severe lack of self-confidence, perhaps stemming from this flawed relationship, even if she denies it. He's even gone as far as to say he married the wrong person, while I can easily attest to the fact that half the reason he can reliably spend his time doing the theatre at all is because my mother and I often do the letter-writing, brochure-making, etc, which he absolutely refuses to be grateful for. 

He'll yell, and because I can't stand being yelled at for no reason, I'll point out that I'm not one of his cronies at the theatre who would praise him for yelling (and I've learnt to say that without yelling) and he'll storm off, call me unworthy of being his son (big deal \\s), and go to his room upstairs. He's threatened to commit suicide (blackmail, and only because I told him not to go for a voice recording session the day after the lockdown was announced, for a project made for making people aware not to go out during the lockdown. He shouted about how I had made an "artist" unable to practice his "art", and accused my mother of helping me, when she'd been silent, as "being silent meant she supported me"). 

And while some of the time, he'll come back, realize he needs me to edit his videos or write a letter, and say sorry just to get me do his job, most of the time, he'll make up shit, tell me I'm at fault, say I started the argument, even when he was the one who yelled (according to him, he can yell whenever he wants, as he's the "father"), there have been times when we haven't talked for two weeks, and then started talking again. 

I mean, I get that he loves me as a son, and I am proud of the fact that he allows me to study whatever the fuck I want at school or college, but I am absolutely pissed at the fact that this yelling severely debilitates my study regimen, at a time when I need to get my shit together for my entrance exams, that seem to be getting indefinitely delayed due to the pandemic.

So, fathers of r/india, what do you have to say about this? How do you bridge that gap between your children? Or, as sons, how do you think it should be bridged? I don't want to grow up and have my family (if I end up with one) being strained due to my needless temper.