1. The appellants M/s. Kandla Clearing Agency (P) Ltd. (KCA) who are a Customs House Agent (CHA) and its Director Shri Shantilal Jain, (S. Jain) have filed the instant 10 appeals against the 5 orders-in-original passed by the Commissioner (Customs), wherein penalties of Rs. 25 lakhs and Rs. 10 lakhs have been imposed on Shri Shantilal Jain and Kandla Clearing Agency respectively in each case. 2. Through the instant ten appeals filed by the Company and the Director these penalties are being challenged. We have heard both the sides. 3. During the hearing the ld. Counsel for the appellants submitted that in the instant case the DRI authorities have issued the respective show cause notice who have no jurisdiction to issue such notices for the reason that DRI does not qualify to be a 'proper officer' of Customs. Introduction of this new ground was challenged by the DR stating that this point was not raised earlier. However, we are of the view that the appellants can be permitted to raise this ground even though not raised earlier. The ld. Counsel cited various case laws to support his argument that, the show cause notice cannot be issued by the DRJ. The following case laws viz. Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai v. Ramesh Nebhnani [2001 (138) E.L.T. 232], CC, Bombay v. Poona Roller [1997 (89) E.L.T. 604], Nath International Corporation v. CC, Mumbai [2003 (152) E.L.T. 430], CC, Mumbai v. Mahesh India [2003 (151) E.L.T. 605], Manohar Bros. ( Capacitors) v. Collector of Customs, Mumbai-II [1998 (98) E.L.T. 821], Pushpit Steels Pvt. ltd. and Anr. v. CC, Cochin [2001 (130) E.L.T. 520 (T) = 2000 (41) RLT 842], Union of India v. Ram Narain Bishwanath [1997 (96) E.L.T. 224 (S.C.)], Bakeman's Home Products Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. Collector of Customs [1997 ( 95) E.L.T. 278 (T) = 1997 (21) RLT 602] and Alcobex Metals (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise [1992 (58) E.L.T. 108] were cited. However, as pointed out by the ld. DR, all these cases relate to a situation where the show cause notices were issued by the Assistant Director DRI and the Tribunal has held that AD DRI being not a proper officer of Customs, had no jurisdiction to issue the said show cause notices. In the instant case, show cause notice was issued by the Additional Director of General, DRI (ADG, DRI). The Central Government in the Ministry of Finance under Notification No. 19/90-Cus. (N.T.), dated 26-4-90 has appointed the Additional Director General, Dte. of Revenue. Intelligence to perform the functions of the Collector of Customs (and now Commissioner). In other words, it follows that if the Collector/Commissioner of Customs had the power under Section 124 of the Customs Act, the said powers are available to DRI in respect of jurisdiction notified in Notification No. 19/90-Cus. (N.T.). It is not the appellant's case that Kandla is not covered under the said appointment order nor it is their case that the Commissioner of Customs has no jurisdiction to issue the show cause notices. Therefore, the objection relating to lack of jurisdiction is devoid of merits and is, therefore, rejected. 4.1 The next question relates to the imposition of penalty on the CHA and the Director as ordered by the Commissioner. Operative part of the order in which the role of CHA in the import is discussed is extracted from Commissioner's order-in-original KDL/Commr/30/2001 and is reproduced as under :- 4.2 In the remaining four cases, the Commissioner's finding are almost identical and indicate that, the import documents were either in the name of fictitious importers or they were filed in the names of importers who existed, but they denied having imported the goods mentioned in the Bills of Entry in question. It is, therefore a common ground in all the five orders-in-original that the CHA had full knowledge of the importers either being fictitious or the names mentioned in the import documents are pseudo names. Therefore, the portion of Commissioner's order extracted above is considered as being illustrative to deal with the remaining cases. 5. As against this, in appeal memorandum, it has been stated that :- 6. Heard both sides. We have also considered various pleas enumerated above and also those advanced during the hearing. The Commissioner in his impugned orders has elaborately explained that the Customs clearance documents was prepared in the name of non-existent company or by using a name of the existing who denied to be connected with the imports-in-question, allegedly based on the instructions from the representative of More Group of Companies. As a responsible Customs House Agent it was the duty of a CHA not to accept the document without being sure about the antecedents of the importer, as the CHA is aware that penal provisions in the Customs Act can be directed against him, in case import goods become liable for confiscation. Custom House Agent licence regulations nowhere permitted a Custom House Agent to transact business on behalf of a fictitious or non-existent firm. It is claimed that the business was provided by More Group of Companies and yet the import document was prepared in the name of a different company which was non-existent or which was not concerned with import. While it is true that the Customs Officers at the port could not detect any irregularity either in the documents submitted or in the concerned advance licence. Nevertheless CHA obviously had full knowledge of the importing firm being non-existent and fictitious or not concerned with the import in question. Yet, he undertook to file the documents in the name of such firm for seeking clearance of the import consignments. It is not, as if, the CHA did not know the actual companies of More Group of Companies, considering their long-standing business association. As a responsible Customs House Agent they are aware that in case any Customs violation is noticed subsequent to import, it is the importer who has to face the consequences. Therefore, filing a document knowingly on behalf of a non-existent or using a wrong name of the client displays an active role of the CHA in shielding the real importers from any penal or legal consequences. The CHA could not claim that though the documents were received from more Group, importers named in the documents were real importers. It is obvious that, he has represented to the Customs House, posing as the agent of a non-existing importer or by using a wrong name of the importer and completed the import formalities on behalf of such non-existent firm. This facilitated the actual importer (smuggler) to operate behind the scene to evade the penal and the duty liabilities. The inference drawn by the Commissioner that M/s. Kandla Clearing Agency/Sh. Shantilal Jain as Director of the Company was having the knowledge that import firms are fictitious or pseudonomous is, therefore, sustainable. It is also stated in the said order that despite filing the document in the name of different importing firm, the goods were delivered to More Group of Companies/Ashwini Kumar or their nominated transporter. Therefore, the Commissioner's finding that Shri Shantilal Jain/M/s. Kandla Clearing Agency were not only in the knowledge of the entire exercise of cheating and de-frauding the exchequer but they have actively connived in the evasion and fraud because the agency was engaged by More Group of Firms on whose behalf the Customs clearance documents were filed, without anywhere mentioning the name of the real importer i.e. More Group of Companies in these documents. The entire modus operandi could be detected only through detailed investigation, and the fact that this fraud could not be detected by the officers who accepted the licences and permitted clearances cannot be a ground to claim that the CHA had acted in an honest and a bona fide manner. 7. The ld. Counsel in his defence is stating that it is not unusual to file documents in the name of different firm whose name is figuring on the advance licence. While it may be possible that since the advance licences are transferable, name of the importer on the import document, may be different from the name of the licence holder. As long as the licence is transferred in the name of the importer this difference does not affect the validity of imports. In the instant case, the import documents were filed in the name of fictitious firms or using a pseudo name and the CHA had hill knowledge of this fact for the reason that the entire transaction of import and post import transport was handled by More Group of Companies who took the delivery of goods. The payment for Customs clearance was received from More Group and the delivery was also made to More Group/Ashwini Kr. or their nominated transporter. The CHA cannot seek the benefit of doubt in this situation by claiming that they were not aware of any illegal activities of import by More Group of Companies by using fictitious names of importers. 8. It is claimed that Customs official themselves were not aware of any fraud or tampering with the advance licence and the CHA was, therefore, not in a position to know the existence of such a fraud. In case, if the conduct of the CHA was to be honest (1) he could not have accepted or prepared document in the name of unknown fictitious importer (ii) he could have make a declaration before the Customs authorities that though the document is presented in the name of a importer, the said importer does not exist. In terms of CHA regulation a CHA is allowed to transact business handled "on behalf of a client". If the "client" is non-existent, it is obvious that the CHA is not an agent of a client. In that case the entire responsibility of any commission or omission connected with the document must be borne by him for the reasons that for all purposes the CHA becomes a person who has filed the import document and thereby he becomes the importer, because there is no client. Either he produces the client on whose behalf a document is filed or he faces the consequences arising therefrom. 9. The challenge to penalty has been made on the ground that the CHA had no knowledge of any fraud in the licence. As long as it comes on record that the advance licence was non-existent and was not issued from the office of the concerned licensing authorities, duty free clearance of the goods becomes unauthorised, ab initio, and such goods become liable for confiscation. The penalty imposed was only on the ground that the goods were liable for confiscation. Therefore, the penalty is correctly imposable under Section 112(a) as ordered by the Commissioner. 10. It is argued by the ld. Counsel that it has not been established that the licences-in-question were fake. This argument has no force. Once the licensing authority disclaims to have issued a licence-in-question, fraudulent nature of the licence is established and nothing remains to be proved. 11. Accordingly, there is no merit in the appeals and the same deserve to be rejected. 12. It has been pleaded that the penalties imposed are excessive. In this connection, we note that the main perpetrator of the fraud are the person behind More Group of Companies, and the CHA firm was used by them to execute their scheme. No doubt the role of the CHA is that of an active participant, the fact nevertheless remains that it is secondary role. On these considerations we feel that some reduction in penalty imposed by the Commissioner is called for. 13.1 Accordingly, we uphold 50% of the penalty imposed by the Commissioner on each of the appellants in the individual appeals and the balance 50% penalty is set aside. 13.2 The ten appeals are partly allowed in the above terms.