This appeal has been preferred by the assessee against order dated

10.12.2012 passed by the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-

II, Ludhiana [hereinafter referred to as 'CIT(A)'] and pertains to

assessment year 2008-09. 2. The brief facts of the case are that in this case notice u/s 148 of

the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called 'the Act') vide dated

22.02.2010 was issued in view of the information available with

Assessing officer that a Housing Society consisting of 207 members was

the owner of 27.3 acres of land in Village Kansal, Distt. Mohali. This

society, known as Defence Services Co-operative Housing Building 2 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

Society, Mohali had entered in a tripartite Joint Development Agreement

(JDA) with M/s Hash Builders Pvt Ltd, Chandigarh and M/s Tata

Housing Development Company Ltd, Mumbai. As per the said

information, by virtue of the tripartite agreement, it was agreed amongst

the parties that the Defence Services Co-operative Housing Building

Society, Mohali, the owner of land, shall transfer its land to M/s Tata

Housing Development Co. Ltd, in lieu of monetary consideration as well

as consideration in kind. Further, as per the said information, each

member of the Housing Society was to receive cash as monetary

consideration from M/s Hash Builders Pvt Ltd as well as receive

consideration in kind such as furnished flat from Tata Housing

Development Company Ltd. The information provided that one of the

members of this society Shri Ranjit Singh had received payment as

under:- Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

the society was to the tune of Rs. 1,81,25,000/- which comprised of Rs.

80 lacs received as monetary consideration and one furnished flat of

2,250 square feet as consideration in kind, whose value came to Rs.

1,01,25,000/- by applying the rate of Rs. 4,500/- per square feet. The

assessee was asked to show cause as to why this amount may not be

added to the income of the assessee. 2.3 In response, the assessee challenged the initiation of proceedings

u/s 148 of the Act on the ground that no notices u/s 148 of the Act or u/s

143(2) had ever been received or served upon the assessee or upon any

other member of the family. The assessee submitted that her family was

residing at Mohali and the notice which was being stated to have been

served through affixture at Rajguru Nagar, Ludhiana was not the correct

/ present address of the assessee. It was further submitted that although

the Joint Development Agreement existed, the company M/s Tata

Housing Development Company limited was unable to get the necessary

approval from the Town Planning Department of the Government for

such project with the result that there was no development work which

could be commenced in the year under consideration and the permanent

approval could only be obtained in December 2008 which was further

subject to the final necessary sanction being received from the Ministry

of Defence and other authorities. It was further submitted that the issue

had also become the subject matter of litigation before the Hon'ble 5 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

Punjab & Haryana High Court and in this case essential condition for

approval of capital gains were not finalized. It was submitted that the

members of the Housing Society had received only two initial

installments till 24.12.2010 and the balance amount was still doubtful to

be recovered and, therefore, it could be said that there was any case of

full consideration having been received. It was further submitted that

the members of the society have only been promised a built up flat to

be constructed by the company on its completion but nothing concrete

had been done towards that end so far. The assesseee's submission was

that, therefore, no addition could be made on promised consideration.

2.4 However, the Assessing Officer did not accept the assessee's

contention and held that in view of the Joint Development Agreement

and the resolution of the General Body of the Society, there was a grant

and assignment of development rights in the property and, therefore,

there was a transfer of property upon the surrender of allotment rights,

and accordingly, full value of consideration that had accrued to the

assessee as a member of the Society amounting to Rs. 1,81,25,000/-

was to be added as Long Term Capital Gains to the income of the

assessee. The assessment was completed at an income of Rs.

1,81,25,000/-. 2.5 Aggrieved with the order of the Assessing Officer, the assessee

approached the Ld. First Appellate Authority and challenged the 6 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

assumption of jurisdiction u/s 148 of the Act as well as challenged the

merits of the case. The Ld. CIT(A), however, dismissed the appeal of

the assessee and now the assessee has approached this Tribunal

challenging the action of the Ld. CIT(A) by raising following grounds

of appeal:- Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

 House Building Society Limited for the same reason
 which in itself shows that there is no reason to believe
 as envisaged in section 147 of the Act and as such the
 assessment framed is illegal which merits annulment. 6. Without prejudice to the above, the Ld. Commissioner
 of Income Tax (Appeals) has further erred in upholding
 the addition of Rs.80,00,000/- as the alleged
 consideration received in cash which in fact has not
 been received till date and as such the addition upheld
 is illegal, arbitrary & unjustified. 7. That the entire hypothetical addition is based on an
 agreement relied upon in parts by the Assessing Officer
 which in fact has not been implemented till date and as
 such the addition made and upheld by the
 Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) on suspicion,
 surmises and conjectures merits deletion. 8. That the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
 has further erred in upholding the addition of Rs.
 1,01,25,000/- to be the alleged value of one flat relying
 upon an agreement entered into between third parties
 which is illegal, arbitrary and unjustified. 9. That the entire addition of Rs. 1,81,25,000/-- is based
 purely on suspicion, surmises and conjectures in as
 much as neither any amount has been received in cash
 during the year nor any flat has been given to the
 assessee and as such the hypothetical additions made
 and upheld by the Commissioner of Income Tax
 (Appeals) are illegal, arbitrary and unjustified. 10.That the agreements relied upon by the Assessing
 Officer have to be read as a whole and not in parts
 which has so been done by the Assessing Officer as
 clauses relating to transfer of ownership, rights,
 termination, possession have been brushed aside while
 only the consideration clause has been referred to
 which cannot under any circumstance be read in 8 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

 isolation and as such the entire addition made and
 upheld by the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
 merits deletion. 11. That the Capital Gains shall arise only in the year
 when the Payment is received and the possession of the
 built up furnished flat is handed over to the assessee
 and as such to tax the income which is still to be
 received especially when the implementation of the
 agreement itself is doubtful, the addition of Rs.
 1,81,25,000/- so made and upheld by the Commissioner
 of Income Tax (Appeals) merits deletion. 12. That the Id. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
 has erred in holding that the transaction was squarely
 covered by the provisions of Section 2(47) read with Section 45 and 48 which is arbitrary and unjustified. 13. That in any case, Section 53A of the Transfer of
 Property Act is not applicable to unregistered
 documents as in the instant case and as such the order
 is illegal, arbitrary and unjustified. 14. That the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
 has further erred in upholding the non " allowance of
 benefit provided under section 54 / 54 F of the Act and
 claimed on the amount received which is arbitrary and
 unjustified. 15. That the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
 has further erred in charging interest the under section
 234-A,B and C of the Act which is not chargeable in the
 facts of the case. 16.That the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax
 (Appeals) is erroneous, arbitrary, opposed to law and
 facts of the case and is, thus, untenable 9 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

3.0 At the outset, the Ld. AR submitted that the assessee was

challenging the assumption of jurisdiction u/s 148 of the Act and was

also challenging the re-assessment proceedings on the ground that there

was no service of notice u/s 148 of the Act. The Ld. AR drew our

attention to the assessee's application for admitting additional evidence

vide application dated 21.09.2015 and also an affidavit dated

05.12.2017 filed by the assessee. The Ld. AR submitted that these

additional evidences and the affidavit go to the very root of the matter

and were filed in pursuance to the directions of the Bench. It was

submitted that during the course of earlier proceedings, it had been

argued by the Ld. AR that notice u/s 148 of the Act had not been served

on the assessee as the assessee had never resided at the address

mentioned in the notice as well as in the assessment order and that there

was directions by the Bench to place on record the evidence in this

regard and, therefore, such directions had been complied with. The Ld.

AR prayed that these additional evidences may be taken on record in the

interest of substantial justice. 3.1 In response to the assessee's application for admission of

additional evidence, the Ld. SR DR opposed the assessee's application

and submitted that such additional evidences should be out rightly

rejected for the reason that the assessee had not demonstrated as to how 10 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

she was prevented from filing such evidence before the Ld. CIT(A) or

the Assessing Officer. 3.2 Having considered the rival submissions and looking into the facts

of the case and also duly noting that the assessee seeks to admit the

additional evidence which is germane to the entire controversy, in the

interest of substantial justice, we admit these additional evidences.

4.0 The Ld. AR invited our attention to the additional evidence filed in

this regard along with the accomp anying application and drew our

attention to the address of the assessee as appearing in Voter ID card of

the assessee placed at page 1 of the additional evidence paper boo k

address of the assessee appearing in page 3, which is a copy of the

allotment letter pertaining to the plot in Hill View Enclave. It was

submitted that in the Voter ID card as well as in the letter of allotment,

the address was appearing as H. No. 2676, Sector 69, Mohali. Our

attention was further drawn to page 4 of the additional evidence paper

book which is copy of computation of total income for assessment year

2004-05 and also to copy of the ITR return for assessment year 2003-04

and it was pointed out by the Ld. AR that the address provided in these

two documents was H. No. 1245/2, Sector 43B, Chandigarh. Thereafter,

our attention was further drawn to page 8 of the additional evidence,

paper book which is copy of identity card of War Widow, which had 11 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

been issued in the name of the assessee and wherein the address of the

assessee had been shown as H.No.1245/2, Sector 43B, Chandigarh. It

was pointed out that the Voter Id card was issued sometime in 2006-07

as the date on the voter ID card was dated 02.12.2006 and the date on the

allotment letter was 11.12.2005. The Ld. AR submitted that the assessee

was earlier residing in Mohali, and thereafter, had shifted to Chandigarh.

It was further submitted that the assessment order pertaining to the

captioned assessment year i.e. 2008-09 was passed on 24.12.2010 and the

same was addressed to 10SF HIG Flat Rajguru Nagar, Ludhiana, an

address where the assessee never resided. 4.1 Thereafter, the Ld. AR submitted that in view of the documents, as

mentioned above in the additional evidences paper book, it was apparent

that the assessee had not been served the notice issued u/s 148 of the Act

as the Assessing officer admittedly had got the notice affixed at the

address in Ludhiana, whereas, the assessee was either residing in Mohali

or in Chandigarh. 4.2 Coming to the merits of the case, the Ld. AR submitted that the

assessee had come to know of the assessment having been completed and

a demand having been raised only when the recovery notice was

received. It was submitted that, apparently, somebody else had filed the

assessee's return using her PAN or otherwise it seems that somebody had 12 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

played a fraud on the assessee as well as the Department. It was

submitted that a letter to this effect was also written to the ITO, Ward-

VI(2), Ludhiana which was received in the Income Tax Office on

18.2.2013. It was further submitted that the assessee had again written

to the Income Tax Officer Ward VI(2), Ludhiana in response to the

notice u/s 271(1) (c ) of the Act, wherein, it had been submitted that the

assessee had never filed any return of income nor had signed the appeal

form and, apparently, somebody else had been assessed in the assessee's

PAN. The Ld. AR drew our attention to the Affidavit dated 5.12.2007

filed before this Tribunal wherein the above stated submissions have

been narrated and verified under oath. Referring to the said Affidavit, it

was submitted that the contents of the Affidavit were self-explanator y

and, therefore, it was very obvious that the assessment had been

completed behind the back of the assessee without her being granted any

opportunity and further even the Ld. CIT(A) had not duly considered the

submissions of the assessee and had simply proceeded to uphold the

findings of the Assessing Officer without considering the fact that a

fraud had been played both on the assessee as well as the Department by

some unscrupulous element. The Ld. AR submitted that, therefore,

looking into the facts of the case, the assessment proceedings itself

needed to be quashed. ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

5.0 In response to the arguments of the Ld. AR, the Ld. Sr. DR placed

reliance on the concurrent orders of both the authorities below and

submitted that the contentions raised by the assessee were more of an

after thought because, as per the records, the re-assessment proceedings

had duly been attended to by two Authorised Representatives of the

assessee, a fact, which was evident from both the assessment order as

well as the order of the Ld. First Appellate Authority. It was submitted

that now at this juncture, the assessee cannot be permitted to avoid of

tax liability by bringing up new version / explanation which were

apparently not true. 6.0 We have heard the rival submissions and have perused the material

available on record. The main contention of the assessee is that the

notice u/s 148 of the Act had been issued at the wrong address i.e. where

the assessee had not been residing. It was further submitted that the

assessee was permanently residing at Mohali and the affixture of notice

at some premises in Ludhiana, having no connection with the assessee

was not proper and, therefore, the legal requirement for service of notice

to be effective was not fulfilled. In this regard, the assessee has filed

some additional evidences before us which we have duly taken note of. It

is seen that the documents submitted as additional evidence show that as

per the Election Commission Identity Card, the assessee address was of

Mohali. This identity card was issued on 2.12.2006. The allotment letter 14 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

of the Housing Society which is dated 11.12.2005 also shows that the

assessee's address at Mohali. However, the copy of the Income Tax

Return acknowledgement for assessment year 2003-04 shows that the

assessee's address as house no. 1245/2, Sector 43-B, Chandigarh.

Further, the identity card issued by Army showing the assessee as a War

Widow shows the address as H. No. 1245/2, Sector 43B, Chandigarh. On

the other hand, the notices u/s 148 of the Act, the assessment order as

well as the order of the Ld. First Appellate Authority show the address at

10SF, HIG Flats, Rajguru Nagar, Ludhiana. It is the contention of the

assessee that the assessee was not aware of the notice having been

received u/s 148 of the Act and neither was she aware of the assessment

proceedings having been completed against her. It is also her contention

that she was not aware of any appeal having been filed against the

assessment as she has also disputed the signatures which are affixed on

form No. 35 filed before the Ld. CIT(A). It is her contention that she

came to know of the assessment having completed against her only when

she received a communication for the outstanding demand. On the

other hand, when the issue of service of notice had been raised before

the Ld. CIT(A), the assessee's challenge to assumption of jurisdiction

u/s 148 of the Act was dismissed by the Ld. CIT(A) by noting that the

assessee had been represented by two authorised representatives, both

before the Assessing officer as well as before him, and also that the

notice u/s 142(1) of the Act had been served on the same address of 15 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

Ludhiana, in response to which the authorised representative had

attended. It has also been observed by the Ld. CIT(A) that the address of

Ludhiana i.e. H. No. B-143, Rajguru Road, Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana

was taken from the records of the housing society is correct as this

address has not been denied by the assessee. On the other hand, it has

been alleged by the assessee that the address at which the assessment

order was communicated i.e. 10 SF, HIG Flats, Rajguru Nagar Ludhiana

belonged to father-in-law of her son with whom some dispute had arisen.

The assessee has also filed an affidavit in respect of the various

averments. 6.1 As far as the issue of service of notices is concerned, we are of

the considered opinion that the various statements made by the assessee

are self-contradictory and at this juncture it is not possible for anybody

to verify the veracity of stand taken by the assessee in respect of the

non-receipt of notice u/s 148 of the Act. Admittedly, the assessee had an

address in Ludhiana and she also has an address in Mohali and another

address in Chandigarh. From the records also, it is not coming out as to

what is the correct address of the assessee as per the PAN records. In

such a situation, we are of the considered view that the assessee cannot

be allowed to take the benefit of plea of no service of notice u/s 148 of

the Act when even as per the various documents filed before us, the

assessee was having three addresses. In such a situation, we would 16 ITA No. 727-c-2013 - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

concur with the categorical findings of the Ld. First Appellate Authority

that the notice u/s 148 of the Act had been served on the assessee

through affixture. Moreover, it is not the case of the assessee that her

case was dismissed ex-parte by the Ld. CIT(A) or her assessment was

completed ex-parte by the Assessing officer as at both the Forums her

case had been duly represented by some authorised representatives as is

apparent from the assessment order as well as the First Appellate order.

Here again, the veracity of the assessee's contention that she had not

authorised anybody to represent her, cannot be verified for want of

adequate proof. The assessee's contention that the signature on Form 35

is not hers, is a matter within the realm of Forensic Experts. Further, as

per record, even notice u/s 142(1) of the Act had been received by the

assessee and had been duly responded to. Therefore, we reject the

assessee's legal ground that the subject assessment is liable to be set

aside for want of service of notice u/s 148 of the Act. We dismiss the

grounds raised by the assessee in this regard. 6.2 Coming to the merits of the case, it will be worthwhile to

reproduce the contents of the Affidavit dated 5.12.2017 filed by the

assessee before this Tribunal, which are as under:- I, Rashpal Kaur Bhullar wife of Late Lt. Col. Sant Singh Bhullar aged 70
 years resident of # 1245/2, Sector 43B, Chandigarh do hereby solemnly affirm
 and declare as under: - Ms. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar, Mohali

 (Appeals) does not bear my signatures. 13. That the order of Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) is a combined
 order in the name of Sh. Raj Partap Singh who is brother in law of my son
 and Smt. Rashpal Kaur Bhullar. 14. That there is an ongoing matrimonial dispute between my son Sh.
 Manpreet Singh Bhullar and my Daughter in law Ms. Sarabsimrat Kaur. 15. That an appeal against the order of Commissioner of Income Tax(Appeals)
 was filed only when I received a recovery notice from the Assessing officer
 dated 07/02/2013 at any address i.e. 2676, Sector 69, Mohali wherein it
 was mentioned that an order has been passed by the Ld. Commissioner of
 Income Tax (Appeals) dismissing the appeal. The copy is placed in the
 application for additional evidence at page 10. 16. That I applied for the copy of the order passed by the Commissioner of
 Income Tax (Appeals) to safeguard my interest and for further filing of
 appeal before the Hon'ble Income tax Appellate Tribunal at Chandigarh. 17. That the appeal before this Hon'ble Court has been filed to safeguard my
 interest against the demand created against me on an alleged return of
 income and alleged appeal which were never filed by me. Had I not
 agitated the matter before this Hon'ble Court the revenue would have
 proceeded to recover the dues illegally created against me. 18. That I have not received the alleged payment of an amount of Rs.32 lacs
 as mentioned in the assessment order. 19. That I had lodged a complaint with SSP Mohali on 29/11/2010 wherein
 the facts in respect of the bogus return and bogus appeal having been filed
 have also been mentioned besides other points of dispute have also been
 narrated. Copy of the same is placed at Pages 19-21 of the additional
 evidence. Deponent
 Verification:-