SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My phone number was illegally transferred to a person who wanted it...
DATE: 2017-01-20
SCORE: 21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5p0wyw/my_phone_number_was_illegally_transferred_to_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

I bought a new connection for work... The day it was activated, a person called saying that it was his old number and wanted it... Initially it was a request, but thereafter it was serious, he said he will compete it in police station via sms...

I had stopped using the connection because anyway i couldn't make use of it because it was being targeted..

Finally one day, when i switched on the phone again (i used to just use the internet, to exhaust the data remaining and then let the connection go), i saw it was in "Emergency calls only".. On calling my own number it said "Temporarily disconnected"... So i chatted with the D... support, and they told me that the number had been transferred from prepaid (from my name) to the same person who was calling me (as postpaid)... This happened without my consent whatsoever... The support person said they will look into it, and by the end of the day, the connection will be active on my SIM again.. Later i can Block the number and finally it will disconnect..

The following day, a person from the D.. store called me and said that the person produced an FIR and court order and he had to issue the number to him.. So i know the person who's name it has gone to and which city he's in.. Also he's in his late 20s from his picture..

Anyway, this person from the store was saying, that the main center is saying that you have done fraud, and he was asking me if i can give an NOC to the person who has taken my registered number... I said, how can i give an NOC to a person who has committed fraud?...

Anyway, when i got back to the chat support after the specified 72 hours (4 days), i was told, that the documentation was being checked, and accordingly action will be taken, i was asked to wait another 72 hours... And still am in the waiting period...

At the moment, i haven't reported authorities about this incident, but had a month earlier when this person was trying to pressurize me to give up the number... And the cop had said that if he calls you on your persona number he will speak to him... Anyway, this fellow is from a smaller town than i am in, and northward...

So i don't really have much insight into what i should be really doing to prevent the number being misused in my name... It could be transferred back to me anytime... I somehow feel the store person who called must have helped the person, since how can the person otherwise know the same day the sim was activated, and he called me to ask for it...

Anyway, not sure if this is the right place to ask this question, but i thought asking for help here may be a good place... I somehow feel the matter from the customer support end will just keep rolling on... They had asked me to wait till they get back and then report to the cops... But they are just postponing giving me information for now (4 days have passed)...