1. In Original Application No. 360/2015 dated 26.02.2021 it was

observed:- Need for regulation under the Water, Air and EP Acts by
PCBs, apart from the Mining authorities under the Mining
law 3 17. Again, in Goa Foundation, supra (prs 74-76) it was observed
 that mining was required to be regulated not only by the
 Mining department but also by the PCBs under the Water and
 Air Act and by the MoEF under the EP Act . It is made clear
 that the environment laws override other laws and any
 provision to the contrary in the Mines Act will not stay in the
 way of enforcing the environment norms. In this regard
 reference may also be made to report of the Ministry of Mines
 entitled "Sand Mining Framework" which will not stand in
 the way of modified mechanism in accordance with this
 order." 2. Cognizance was taken by this Tribunal on the issue of rampant

illegal mining in Bihar taking place near bridges to get access to trucks

affecting safety of the pillars supporting the bridges. 3. The matter was taken up by this Tribunal on 09.05.2023 and a

Committee was constituted consisting Chief Secretary, Bihar, DGP, Bihar

and ACS/PS, Mining and ACS/PC, Environment with direction to submit

factual and action taken report. The Committee has submitted a report

which as follows:- c) In the District of Bhojpur a total of 251 raids, 27 arresting, 70
 FIR's and 410 vehicles seized during 18.04.2023 to
 23.05.2023. 2. The Joint Committee also held a meeting with the settlees and
 transporters of sand on 31.05.2023 and response was sought
 from them regarding the stringent action being taken by the
 State to prevent illegal mining. The concerned individuals/
 settlees/ transporters submitted before the Committee that the
 steps which are being undertaken by the State have resulted
 into decrease of illegal mining and a sense of fear is there
 amongst the sand mafias in the state. It was also requested by
 the said persons that such measures must remain in place
 permanently so that illegal sand mining is completely
 eradicated in the State of Bihar. III. Recommendation Given by the Joint Committee: A copy of the Bihar Sand Mining Policy, 2019 is enclosed
 herewith as Annexure B.

B. Constitution of Mininq Task Force at State, Division and
 District level

 i. The State Government has also formulated the Bihar
 Minerals (Concession, Prevention of Illegal Mining,
 Transportation & Storage) Rules, 2019. The chapter XVII of
 Bihar Mineral (Concession, Prevention of illegal Mining,
 Transportation & Storage) Rules, 2019 deals with
 mechanism for preventing illegal mining, transportation,
 and storage of sand. Under this chapter, Mining Task
 Force has been constituted at State/ Division/ District
 level. It is the responsibility of the District Level Task Force
 to ensure that all the mining activity is carried out as per
 the terms of the mining lease and no illegal mining, illegal
 transportation, over loading, hoarding and black marketing
 of minor mineral is carried on. The following District level
 officials are member of District level Mining Task Force:- ii. The State of Bihar promulgated and notified the Bihar
 Minerals (Concession, Prevention of Illegal Mining,
 Transportation & Storage) Amendment Rules, 2021 vide
 gazette notification dated 5th July 2021 for prevention of
 illegal mining by prescribing severe penalties considering
 the gravity of the offences. The amended Rule 56 (1) clearly
 stipulates that no person shall extract or remove or
 undertake any mining operation in any area without holding
 any mineral concession, permit or any other permission
 granted or permitted under these rules or shall transport or
 store or cause to be transported or stored any mineral
 without a valid challan or license. Sub Rule (2) of Rule 56
 prescribes imprisonment term, which may extend to two
 years or a fine of five lakh rupees or both. The Mining officer
 may compound the offence on payment of cost of the mineral
 and the compound fees detailed in the chart reproduced
 herein below:- Note: - Cost of the mineral shall be taken as twenty-five times of
 royalty in lieu of rent, royalty, compensation for environmental
 degradation and tax chargeable on the land occupied without
 lawful authority, etc.
 Provided that the amount of compound fee in cases other
 than specified as above shall not be less than rupees twenty-five
 thousand and shall be in addition to the cost of mineral. iii.Rule 56 (3) also contains provisions for seizure of vehicle along
 with the mineral by a mining officer or police officer of the district or
 any other officer of the district authorized by the Collector.
 A copy of the Bihar Minerals (Concession, Prevention of Illegal
 Mining, Transportation & Storage) Amendment Rules, 2021 is
 enclosed herewith as Annexure C.

D. Continuous Raids and Monitoring: - E. Exemplary Action against officers whose role was found
 dubious

 The State of Bihar has a zero-tolerance policy towards illegal
 mining. It is the only state in the country to take exemplary action
 against government officers whose role in controlling illegal mining
 was found to be dubious. The Economic Offences Unit after
 surveillance two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, four deputy
 superintendents of police (DSP) rank officers, many SHOs besides
 four Bihar Administrative Service officers (BAS) were among 27
 officials suspended for aiding and abetting illegal sand mining
 mafias in four districts of the state. A motor vehicle inspector (MVI)
 along with five officers of mines and geology department were also
 suspended for aiding and abetting the illegal sand mining mafia. F. Creation and Recruitment on 100 posts of Mining Inspectors
 in the State. To ensure that regulatory mechanism works efficiently towards the
 prevention of illegal mining and transportation, the Department of
 Mines and Geology created 100 new posts of Mining Inspectors. Till
 date 90 Mining Inspector including 28 Women have been recruited
 and posted. These Mining Inspectors hail from prestigious 8 institutions and are being regularly trained to deal with illegal
 sand mining. G. Deployment of SAP and Home guards in various Districts. 190 Home guards and 137 SAPs has been deployed to deal with the
 menace of illegal sand mining, transportation and storage. H. Preparation of DSR for all Districts. In the light of order of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of State of Bihar & Ors. vs. Pawan Kumar & Ors., Civil Appeal No. 3661-3662 of 2020, the District Survey Report has been
 prepared and the same are approved by State Level Environment
 Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Bihar. All the sand deposit
 areas of the river are identified and included in the new DSRs to
 avoid possibilities of illegal mining. The identified sand ghats are
 being auctioned and the concerned LOI holders have applied for
 grant of EC before SEIAA which is under process. In the
 interregnum, the Bihar State Mining Corporation Ltd. (BSMCL) has
 been conducting sand mining in the state by appointing
 contractors in terms of the orders passed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court in the matter of State of Bihar & Ors. vs. Pawan Kumar &
 Ors., Civil Appeal No. 3661-3662 of 2020. The entire sand mining
 activity being undertaken in the State of Bihar, as on date, is
 being done under the supervision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 the abovementioned pending matter. V. Steps to further improve the mechanism: Salient features of the EMGSM-2020 4. We may note the salient features of the EMGSM-2020, which are

supplemental to existing SSMG-2016 and seek to provide effective

enforcement and monitoring from the stage of identification of source to

its dispatch and end use which requires involvement of all stakeholders

viz. Central Government, State Government, Leaseholders/Mine Owners,

Distributors, Dealers, Transporters and Consumers (bulk & retail). EMGSM refer to the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Deepak

Kumar Vs. State of Haryana & Ors. (2012) 4 SCC 629 making EC

mandatory irrespective of the area of mining lease, followed by

monitoring in terms of the Environment Management Plan, using IT and

IT enabled services. Monitoring has to be with reference to quantity

of mined material, transportation with a view to promote

environmental protection, limit negative physiological,

hydrogeological and social impacts underpinning sustainable

economic growth. Observations in the order of this Tribunal dated

04.09.2018 in O.A. 173/2018 in Sudarsan Das vs. State of West Bengal

& Ors. has also been referred to as follows: Further reference has been made to the directions in the order

dated 05.04.2019 requiring the 17 States, which were party before the

Tribunal viz. West Bengal, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab,

Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,

Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Kerala, Telangana and Tamil

Nadu and Himachal Pradesh, to follow the revised Guidelines and to

review their respective monitoring mechanism. It is then stated that with

the object of regulating the mining, the sources of sand and steps

required are mentioned which provide for District Survey Report (DSR),

Mining Plan, replenishment study, consideration of environment impact

while granting EC, laying down conditions for EC, monitoring of

transportation to the end user to ensure that only legally mined material

is transported. There is need to balance between deposition and

extraction of sand as per replenishment study, maintaining surveillance,

using Unmanned Artificial Vehicles (UAVs)/Drone for reserves

estimation, quantity estimation, land use monitoring. Details about all

these aspects have been mentioned in the said Guidelines. With regard

to post EC monitoring, there is a provision for environment audit,

monitoring of sale and purchase by developing online portal and laying

down the levels of monitoring i.e. Level 1- Reach/ Stockyard level

monitoring, Level 2 - Transportation monitoring, Level 3 - End consumer 11 monitoring/ bulk consumer, Level 4 - Indirect monitoring. Reference

has then been made to the High-Powered Committee incorporating

safeguards to be adopted by the project proponents. There is also

provision for assessment of compensation for the ecological damage by

the State/ PCB/ any other Authority. Inter District and Inter State

boundaries are separately dealt with. The uniform monitoring

mechanism stipulates: Following rules and procedures as mentioned in these
 guidelines will add to the costs of PP. Those involved in
 illegal activities are not required to bear these costs and
 this will make their supply in the market cheaper (though
 illegal). This will put the players running their business by
 following rules and procedures laid down by the
 government to disadvantage as far as the selling price is
 considered. Therefore, it is necessary to come down heavily
 on those involved in illegal excavation/transport, so that
 there is no incentive for players to abide by the rules. The following action may be taken to achieve this
 deterrence against illegal business: (Earlier this was done under the state act pertaining to
 Value Added Tax/Sales Tax). Habitual offenders should
 also be taken up under local state laws for externment
 and/or preventive action. It is clarified that as per law, it
 is possible to take all actions under various laws
 simultaneously for one offence. What is prohibited in law is
 an action under the same law for the same act more than
 once. 2. The action should be taken against all persons
 responsible. Often, there is a tendency to penalize only
 the drivers of the vehicles. The mafia of illegal mining
 and transport is much bigger and drivers are only one
 part of the system. It is necessary to identify all those
 involved in the offence. It is usually not possible to reach
 the place of excavation without creating a motorable
 pathway up to the same through land which may be 17 private land. Such role of such landowners needs to be
 looked into for each offence and proceeded against
 simultaneously. Further, the role of vehicle owners needs
 to be probed. Role of the person who allowed his land to
 be used for illegal excavation and storage should also be
 examined. Lastly, the person who purchases such sand
 should also be probed. The legal proceedings stated
 above needs to be initiated against all of these together.
 An attempt should be made to fix the financial
 responsibility in joint and several ways so that recovery
 is easier. 3. There may be discretion available in law about the
 extent of the penalty to be levied. If such discretion is
 very wide, then it is advisable that guidelines may be
 laid down to reduce such discretion in law for levying
 penalties. For example, in Maharashtra, Land Revenue
 Code, fine of any amount of penalty up to thrice the
 value of the sand can be levied. Solapur district
 administration had instructed Tahsildars and SDMs not
 to use discretion and levy the fine of three times the
 value. Availability of discretion makes junior level
 functionaries susceptible to pressures and it may also
 lead to corrupt practices. 4. It is emphasized that actions, as stated above, are
 most important to ensure that the IT-based system
 works. If these exemplary actions are not taken against
 everyone, it shall create a strong disincentive to those
 involved in legal excavation and transportation. For IT-
 based (or any other) legal system to work, it is necessary to
 ensure that illegal system stops working altogether." 5. Since, Chief Secretary of Bihar has taken action and proper

mechanism have been suggested to control the illegal mining thus we

direct the Chief Secretary to monitor the mechanism and direct the

Competent Authority of District Headquarter to regularly monitor by

checking of illegal mining and to comply SSMG 2016 and EMGSM, 2020. 6. State PCB is directed to take necessary visit and inspect

periodically and in case it is found that there is a violation of

environmental rules or mining rules, penal action in addition to 18 assessment and imposition of environmental compensation must be

taken against the violators. 7. The environmental compensation so assessed shall be utilized for

environmental purposes. 8. With these observations the Original Application No. 305/2023

stands disposed of. Sheo Kumar Singh,CP

 Arun Kumar Tyagi, JM

 Dr. A. Senthil Vel, EM
July 11, 2023
Original Application No. 305/2023
HB 19