SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why do Youtubers clickbait at extreme levels and lie so much ?
DATE: 2021-09-14
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/pnw3w3/why_do_youtubers_clickbait_at_extreme_levels_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is more of a rant but like what is wrong with youtubers not just in India ,I see other countries too like Pakistan. These two places have become ecochambers. Youtubers are just copying everything hence 
Clickbait Youtubers are becoming a norm. 

Idk if I can write the name of some big or small YouTubers on this sub but the biggest one is technomindUjjwal he kind of became successful by running this scam of changing APN s of the mobile network and showing 80 Mb/s speeds. If you look at any of his videos all of them are on an android emulator screen and he fakes everything and he has so many subs .

People just want subs and throw in click bait titles especially tech ones or anything related to the internet.
Recently I saw some guy with 200k+subs post a gameplay video with the title on how to get this feature after new update. The thumbnail also had that feature but in his entire video he never even showed once what he did. The funny part is no one in the comments section asked where is the feature. 

As an example try searching for how to enable clips on your YouTube channel on YouTube. Clips are only for gamers and they are only for big YouTube channels. 
Now watch how this clickbait Youtubers will put there title in, it literally says on your channel in the title.One guy shows how to clip someone's video and then just speaks about how to enable clips on your channel without showing it . The other does exactly the same in the end he speaks nonsense I am pretty sure that if you keep using this feature you will get it soon on your channel like WTF.

Technomind has been doing these Apn tricks and they don't work but resetting sometimes can change your band so even if 20% of the people felt it worked they would sub him and he became big. 
This isn't the case with other Youtubers they just want views and they will never ever grow for sure.

These people have a childs mentality cause I had a channel 12 years ago and used to do shit like this, these people are not kids but quite grown up.

There is no sense of responsibility no shame onnly lying and logo ko bas chutiya yaha bhi bana na hi hai. Worst part is some people actually made it big through these stupid tricks.