SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Rant] The problems I face being an Indian student
DATE: 2019-11-22
SCORE: 49
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dzz5se/rant_the_problems_i_face_being_an_indian_student/

--- POST TEXT ---

Before I begin my rant, I'd like to tell some of my achievements - not because I want to brag - but because this is needed for the context.

I am a undergrad student of an IIT studying Computer Science and Engineering. I have the highest GPA in my branch (will probably pass out as the gold medalist). I have completed two internships and will complete a third before sitting for on-campus placements, and have mentored several students.

I have to face incompetent professors who mentally harass me. A professor came to me and said - "if you want to pass in my subject, you will have to do an assignment". When I asked what assignment, he said - "when I (the prof) entered the class, one student passed a rude comment at me, you have to go and find out who that student was".

I sometimes get suicidal thoughts. I haven't slept for the last 32 hours. We have tests, assignments, presentations almost daily and those keep me engaged so much that sometimes I don't even get time to eat or talk to my parents properly. With relative grading being practiced, every single marks matters and the competition is very intense.

Most companies in India do not value student's time. I applied for an internship at Linkedin. They gave me 3 questions to solve (which I solved). Then they rejected my application saying I have a low GPA. Firstly, I don't have a low GPA, and even if they think my GPA is so low that they were to reject my application even after I solved all the problems, why the hell did they tell me to solve those questions. A similar incident happened with American Express too.

I'm surrounded by people who want me to work for them for free. Startup owners who want me to make their websites, my professor who wants me to write research papers FOR HIM (so that he can publish them with his own name), and the list goes on.

My parents' expectations from me are increasing every year. While they are trying there best to hide these, it becomes visible when I talk to them. My father is like - "jaldi se graduate ho jaao, fir kamaa ke laake dena shuru karna, ab mera kaam karne ka mann nahi hota bilkul, tum jahaan job karoge wahin pe rakh lena ek room dekr, bas khaaunga aur sounga." My mother wants me to give 10 Lakhs for my sister's wedding expenses.

Edit: I am reading all of the comments. Thank you so much to all those who said motivating words. Helped me a lot. Whenever I feel demotivated again, I'll come here and read your comments :)
I see that some of you (specially IITians) feel this is a fake post, but it isn't. You have made some assumptions in your mind (which are incorrect), which make you feel this is a fake post. I already have an offer much better than Amex, it's just that I wanted to point out that Amex/LinkedIn wasted my time. With the increasing number of suicides in IITs, whenever someone says he is getting suicidal feelings, please deal with this seriously instead of assuming he is lying/faking. Hopefully, this will make IITs a better place to live in :)