&
JUDGMENT

1982 AIR 149 = 1982(2)SCR 365 = 1981 Suppl. SCC 87 = 1981(4) SCALE 1975

With
Transferred Cases Nos.20, 21, 22, 2, 6 and 24 of 1981

The Judgment was delivered by : Hon'ble Justice Bhagwati

These writ petitions filed in different High Courts and transferred to this
Court under Article 139-A of the Constitution raise issues of great
constitutional importance affecting the independence of the judiciary and
they have been argued at great length before us. The arguments have
occupied as many as thirty-five days and they have ranged over a large
number of issues comprising every imaginable aspect of he judicial
institution. Voluminous written submissions have been filed before us which
reflect the enormous industry and vast erudition of the learned counsel
appearing for the parties and a large number of authorities, Indian as well
as foreign, have been brought to our attention. We must acknowledge with
gratitude our indebtedness to the learned counsel for the great assistance
they have rendered to us in the learned counsel for the great assistant
they have rendered to us in the delicate and difficult task of adjudicating
upon highly sensitive issues arising in these writ petitions. We find, and
this is not unusual in cases of this kind, that a considerable amount of
passion has been injected into he arguments on both sides and some times
passion has been injected into the arguments on both sides and some times
passion may appear to lend strength to an argument, but, sitting as Judges,
we have to be careful to see that passion does not blind us to logic and
predilections pervert proper interpretation of the constitutional
provisions. We have to examine the arguments objectively and
dispassionately without being swayed by populist approach or sentimental
appeal. It is very easy for the human mind to find justification for a
conclusion which accords with the dictates of emotion. Reason is a ready
enough advocate for the decision one, consciously or unconsciously, desires
to reach. I will recall the brilliant fling of Shri Aurobindo in this poem
"Savitri":An inconclusive play is Reason's toil; Each strong idea can use her as its tool; Accepting every brief she pleads her case, Open to every thought she cannot
know. We have therefore to rid our minds of any preconceived notions or ideas and
interpret the Constitution as it is and not as we think it ought to be. We
can always find some reason for bending the language of the Constitution to
our will, if we want, but that would be rewriting the Constitution in the
guise of interpretation. We must also remember that the Constitution is an
organic instrument intended to endure and its provisions must be
interpreted having regard to the constitutional objectives and goals and
not in the light of how a particular Government may be acting at a given
point of time. Judicial response to the problem of constitutional
interpretation must not suffer from the fault of emotionalism or
sentimentalism which is likely to cloud the vision when judges are
confronted with issues of momentous importance. We must constantly bear in
mind the famous words of Holmes, J. in Northern Securities Co. v. U.S. 193
US 197 1904) where that great illustrious Judge said : 2. The first writ petition is that filed by Iqbal Chagla and others in the
High Court of Bombay. The petitioners in this writ petition are advocates
practising in the High Court of Bombay and they have challenged a circular
letter dated March 18, 1981, addressed by Shri Shiv Shankar, the Law
Minister of the Government of India, to the Governor of Punjab and the
Chief Ministers of the other States. Since the circular letter has formed
the subject-matter of heated controversy between the parties and its
constitutional validity has been assailed on behalf of the petitioners, it
would be desirable to reproduce it in extenso in the words of the author
himself : 3. While obtaining the consent and the preference of the persons mentioned
in paragraph 2 above, it may be made clear to them that the furnishing of
the consent or the indication of a preference does not imply any commitment
on the part of the Government either in regard to their appointment or in
regard to accommodation in accordance with the preferences given. 4. I would be grateful if action is initiated very early by you and the
written consent and preferences of all Additional Judges as well as of
persons recommended by you for initial appointment are sent to me within a
fortnight of the receipt of this letter. 5. I am also sending a copy of this letter to the Chief Justice of your
High Court. With regards,

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

To 1. Governor of Punjab 2. Chief Ministers (by name) (Except North-Eastern States)

It appears that a copy of the Circular letter was sent by the Law Minister
to the Chief Justice of each High Court and the Chief Minister of each
State also forwarded a copy of the circular letter to the Chief Justice of
the High Court of his State. We do not know what the Chief Justices of the
various High Courts did on receipt of a copy of the circular letter from
the Law Minister and from the Chief Ministers of their respective States,
but presumably each Chief Justice sent a copy of the circular letter to the
Additional Judges in his court with a request to do the needful in view of
what was stated in the circular letter. The Chief Justice of Bombay High
Court in any even addressed such a communication to each of the Additional
Judges in his Court. We do not know what was the response of the Additional
Judges in Bombay to the circular letter but the record shows that out of
the total number of Additional Judges in the country, quite a few
Additional Judges gave their consent to be appointed outside their High
Court. The petitioners and other advocates practising on the original as
well as appellate side of the High Court of Bombay however took the view
that the circular letter was a direct attack on the independence of the
judiciary which is a basic feature of the Constitution and hence the
Advocates Association of Western India which represents advocates
practising on the appellate side, the Bombay Bar Association which
represents advocates practising on the original side and the Managing
Committee of the Bombay Incorporated Law Society which represents
Solicitors practising in the High Court of Bombay, passed resolutions
condemning the circular letter as subversive of judicial independence and
asking the Government of India to withdraw the circular letter. Since the
circular letter was not withdrawn by the Law Minister, the petitioners
filed the present writ petition in the High Court of Bombay challenging the
constitutional validity of the circular letter and seeking a declaration
that if consent has been given by any Additional Judge or by any person
whose name has been or is to be submitted for appointment as a Judge,
consequent on or arising form the circular letter, it should be held to be
null and void. There were several grounds on which the constitutional
validity of the circular letter was challenged but it is not necessary to
set them out at the present stage because we shall have occasion to refer
to them in detail when we deal with the rival arguments of the parties. The
petitioners impleaded the Law Minister as respondent 1, the Union of India
as respondent 2 and ten Additional Judges of the Bombay High Court as
respondents 3 to 12. The writ petition was filed on April 20, 1981 and
immediately after filing it, the petitioners applied to the learned single
Judge sitting on the original side of the Bombay High Court for admission
of the writ petition and interim relief. The admission of the writ petition
as also the grant of interim relief were opposed on behalf of respondents 1
and 2 but the learned single Judge admitted the writ petition and issued a
rule and granted interim relief in terms of prayer (e) of the writ
petition. The effect of granting the interim relief was that respondents 1
and 2 were restrained from further implementing the circular letter and
acting in any manner upon the consent, if any, obtained from any person
following on or arising from the circular letter. Respondents 1 and 2
thereupon preferred an appeal Division Bench of the Bombay High Court under
clause (15) of the Letters Patent but the appeal was dismissed by the
Division Bench on April 24, 1981. The Division Bench fixed the hearing of
the writ petition before the learned single Judge hearing writ petitions on
June 25, 1981 and also gave directions for filing of affidavits by the
parties. Respondents 1 and 2 being aggrieved by the order made by the
Division Bench dismissing their appeal made an application to this Court on
May 8, 1981 for taking up their special leave petition directed against the
order of the Division Bench on the same day, but this Court refused to take
up the special leave petition for hearing on that day and directed that it
may come up for hearing in due course. Respondents 1 and 2 in the meanwhile
filed Transfer Petition No. 24 of 1981 for transfer of the writ petition
from the Bombay High Court to this Court under Article 139-A of the
Constitution and ultimately by an order dated June 9, 1981, the Vacation
Judge directed that the writ petition be withdrawn from the Bombay High
Court to this Court and he also gave directions for filing of affidavits
and written briefs. That is how the present writ petition filed by Iqbal
Chagla and others has come up for hearing before this Bench of seven Judges
constituted by the Hon'ble the Chief Justice of India. 3. The second writ petition is that filed by V. M. Tarkunde in the High
Court of Delhi. The petitioner in this writ petition is a senior advocate
practising in the Supreme Court and he has not only challenged the
constitutional validity of the circular letter issued by the Law minister
but also assailed the practice followed by the Central Government in
appointing Additional Judges in various High Courts. The grounds on which
the constitutional validity of the circular letter is challenged are the
same as those taken in the first petition filed by Iqbal Chagla and others,
but, so far as the complaint in respect of appointment of Additional Judges
is concerned, this writ petition covers new ground not treated by the first
writ petition. What made it necessary to include this complaint in the writ
petition was the fact that three Additional Judges of Delhi High Court,
namely, O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad who had originally been
appointed as Additional Judges for a period of two years with effect from
March 7, 1979, and whose term was expiring on the midnight of March 6, 1981
were further appointed as Additional Judges for a period of three months
only from March 7, 1981 and these short-term appointments were, according
to the petitioner, unjustified by the terms of Article 224 and were in any
event subversive of the independence of the judiciary. The petitioner
therefore claimed in the writ petition, in addition to the declaration that
the circular letter was unconstitutional and void, a writ of mandamus
directing the Central Government to convert the posts of Additional Judges
into permanent Judges in the various High Courts commensurate with the
regular business and the arrears in those high Courts and in particular to
convert 12 posts of Additional Judges in the Delhi High Court into
permanent posts having regard to the regular business and the large arrears
in that High Court. The petitioner also questioned the validity of short-
term appointments of O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad and claimed
that since there was an existing vacancy in a permanent post, O. N. Vohra
should be appointed as a permanent Judge to fill that vacancy and so far as
S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad were concerned, they should be appointed for the
full term of two years. It appears that the Union of India was the only
respondent impleaded in the writ petition as originally filed, but
subsequently the Law Minister as also the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Law,
Justice and Company Affairs were added as respondents 2 and 3 to the writ
petition. The High Court of Delhi by its order dated April 23, 1981
admitted the writ petition and issued rule upon it. However, since the
questions arising in the writ petition were questions of great
constitutional importance and the first writ petition had already been
filed in the Bombay High Court and another writ petition to which we shall
presently refer had also been presented in the High Court of Allahabad
raising substantially the same questions, an application was made to this
Court on April 24, 1981 for transfer of the writ petition to this Court and
by an order dated May 1, 1981 this Court transferred the writ petition to
itself from the Delhi High Court. Meanwhile, the further terms of O. N.
Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad was about to expire on June 6, 1981 and no
decision appeared to have been taken till then for continuing these three
Additional Judges for a further term and the petitioner apprehended that if
these three Additional Judges were not continued as Additional Judges on
the expiration of their term on June 6, 1981, the writ petition might
become infructuous. The petitioner therefore, presented an application to
this Court on May 4, 1981 for an order directing that the writ petition be
heard and disposed of before June 6, 1981 and that in any event, the
respondents should maintain status quo by extending the period of
appointment of Additional Judges in the various High Courts till the
disposal of the writ petition. Immediately on filing this application the
petitioner requested the Court to fix an early date of hearing of the writ
petition so that it could be disposed of before June 6, 1981, but since the
Court was closing for the summer vacation from May 9, 1981, it was not
possible to fix the hearing of the writ petition till the reopening of the
Court after the summer vacation. The petitioner thereupon prayed for an
interim order that on the expiration of their term on June 6, 1981, the
Additional Judges should be continued and their term extended until the
final disposal of the writ petition. But, obviously this was not a prayer
which could be granted by the Court because it is for the President and not
for the Court to appoint Additional Judges and once the term of an
Additional Judge has come to an end by efflux of time, it is not competent
for the court to reappoint him for a further term. Since, however, an
allegation was made in the application that the appointments of Additional
Judges for a further term were being made at the last minute and three
Additional Judges of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur were not informed
about the extension of their term until the evening of the last day on
which their original term was due to expire, this Court made an order dated
May 8, 1981 directing that, since the hearing of the writ petition would
not be taking place until the reopening of the court after the summer
vacation, the Union of India should "decide not less than ten days before
June 6, 1981 whether any of the three Additional Judges should be
reappointed for a further term as Additional Judges or they should be
appointed as permanent Judges or otherwise" . So far as the circular letter
was concerned, though on prayer for interim relief was made in the written
application, this Court, on an oral application made on behalf of the
petitioner, directed that any Additional Judge who does not wish to
respondent to the circular letter may do so until the disposal of the writ
petition and he shall not be refused extension nor shall he be refused
permanent appointment, as the case may be, on the ground that he has not
sent any reply to the circular letter or has not indicated his preference
as asked for in the circular letter. Now, according to this order, the
Central Government was bound to take its decision in regard to the
continuance or otherwise of O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad on or
before May 27, 1981 but since no such decision was communicated to the
three Additional Judges, the petitioner, presuming that such decision must
not have been reached by the Central Government preferred an application to
the Court on June 1, 1981 for directing the Central Government to
communicate its decision regarding the continuance or otherwise of the
three Additional Judges. Before this application came up for hearing, the
petitioner came to know that a decision had been taken by the Central
Government in regard to O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad and while S.
B. Wad was continued as an Additional Judge for a period of one year from
June 7, 1981, O. N. Vohra and S. N. Kumar were not continued for a further
term. The petitioner thereupon preferred another application to this Court
on June 4, 1981 and in this application the petitioner pointed out that
there were still large arrears of work in the Delhi High Court and
therefore there was no lawful and bona fide reason for the non-continuance
of O. N. Vohra and S. N. Kumar and not granting fresh appointments to them
was mala fide and unconstitutional and prayed that in the circumstances, an
interim order should be made by the Court directing that O. N. Vohra and S.
N. Kumar shall continue to function as Judges of the Delhi High Court. Both
these applications came up for hearing before the learned Vacation Judge
and by an order dated June 6, 1981, the learned Vacation Judge declined to
grant interim relief that O. N. Vohra and S. N. Kumar shall continue as
Additional Judges but directed that notice be issued to show cause why
status quo in respect of these two Judges should not be maintained and
continued till the pendency of the writ petition. It appears that no order
was thereafter made on the notice, since the writ petition itself was
directed to be heard at an early date and in the meanwhile, O. N. Vohra and
S. N. Kumar were impleaded as respondents 4 and 5, to the writ petition. O.
N. Vohra did not appear at the hearing of the writ petition but S. N. Kumar
appeared through counsel, filed a counter-affidavit and claimed that the
decision of the Central Government not to appoint him for a further term
was vitiated since it was reached without full and effective consultation
with the Chief Justice of India and in any event it was based on irrelevant
considerations and that on a proper construction of Article 224 read with Article 217 , he must be deemed to have been appointed as a permanent Judge
and in any event, he was entitled to be appointed as an Additional Judge
for a further term. The Union of India also filed an affidavit in answer to
the writ petition and a further affidavit in reply to the counter-affidavit
of S. N. Kumar. The writ petition was thereafter placed for hearing before
this Bench of seven Judges along with the writ petition filed by Iqbal
Chagla and others. 4. The third writ petition is that filed by J. L. Kalra and others in the
High Court of Delhi. The petitioners in this writ petition are advocates
practising in the Delhi High Court and they have prayed for the issue of a
writ in the nature of mandamus directing the Central Government to make an
assessment of the number of permanent and Additional Judges required by the
Delhi High Court having regard to its current business and the accumulated
arrears, to create such number of posts of permanent and Additional Judges
as may be necessary and to make appointments to these posts. The other
reliefs asked for in this writ petition are substantially the same as the
reliefs prayed for in the writ petition field by V. M. Tarkunde. This writ
petition was also like the other writ petitions withdrawn and transferred
to itself by this Court. Since the issues arising in this writ petition are
identical with the issues arising in the other two writ petitions, it was
heard by this Bench of seven Judges along with those writ petitions. 5. The fourth writ petition is that filed by S. P. Gupta in the High Court
of Allahabad. The petitioner in that writ petition is an advocate
practising in the Allahabad High Court and he has filed this writ petition
for substantially the same reliefs as the writ petitions of Iqbal Chagla
and V. M. Tarkunde, with only this difference that the reliefs claimed by
him relate to the appointments of Additional Judges in the High Court of
Allahabad. The petitioner has inter alia prayed for a declaration that the
three Additional Judges of the Allahabad High Court, namely, Mr. Justice
Murlidhar, Mr. Justice A. N. Verma and Mr. Justice N. N. Mittal must be
deemed to have been appointed permanent Judges under the warrants already
issued to them and that the circular letter of the Law Minister must be
held to be void. This writ petition was also heard along with the other
writ petitions by this Bench of seven Judges. 6. Since these four writ petitions to which we have just referred raise the
same issues in regard to the circular letter issued by the Law Minister and
the scope and ambit of the power of the Central Government in regard to
appointment or non-appointment of Additional Judges, it would be convenient
to deal with them in a group and we shall hereafter for the sake of
convenience refer to them as the first group of writ petitions. 7. The fifth writ petition is that filed by Miss Lily Thomas, an advocate
practising in the Supreme Court. This writ petition has challenged the
transfer of Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of the High Court of
Madras as the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court. What occasioned the
filing of this writ petition was an order dated January 19, 1981 made by
the President transferring Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of the
Madras High Court as Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court with effect
from the date he assumed charge of his office. This Order recited that it
was made by the President in exercise of the powers conferred under clause
(1) of Article 222 and after consultation with the Chief Justice of India.
Simultaneously with the making of this Order, another order of the same
date was issued by the President whereby the President in exercise of the
powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 222 after consultation with the
Chief Justice transferred Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of the
High Court of Patna as Chief Justice of the High Court of Madras with
effect from the date he assumed charge of his office. It was the first
order of transfer of Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail as Chief Justice of the
Kerala High Court that was challenged by the petitioner in this writ
petition. There were several grounds on which the transfer was challenged
and they were inter alia that the power of transfer conferred under clause
(1) of Article 222 was confined only to transfer of a High Court Judge and
did not cover transfer of the Chief Justice of a High Court; even if the
Chief Justice of a High Court could be transferred in exercise of the power
conferred under clause (1) of Article 222 , such transfer could be effected
only with consent of the Judge sought to be transferred and in any event,
even if consent was not necessary, such transfer could be effected only in
public interest and after full and effective consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and in the case of transfer of Chief Justice M. M. Ismail,
none of these conditions was satisfied, since the transfer was not effected
with his consent and it was neither in public interest nor after full and
effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India. This writ petition
was filed by the petitioner under Article 32 of the Constitution and
therefore when it came up for admission before a Bench of this Court, the
Bench asked the petitioner as to how it was maintainable under Article 32. The Bench was inclined to throw out the petition summarily on the ground
that it did not lie under Article 32 , but the Attorney-General of India
appearing on behalf of the Union of India submitted that since the writ
petition raised important questions of law, it may be entertained by the
Court, because in any event, even if this writ petition were rejected on
the ground that it was not maintainable under Article 32 , a new writ
petition for the same reliefs could always be filed under Article 226 and
then it could be brought to this Court either by way of transfer under Article 139-A or by way of an appeal under Article 136. The Bench therefore
decided to admit this writ petition and issued rule nisi. After this writ
petition was admitted, there were several interlocutory proceedings taken
out by the petitioner, but it is not necessary to refer to them since most
of them were rejected. The Union of India filed a counter-affidavit in
reply to this writ petition contesting the various grounds urged on behalf
of the petitioner. Chief Justice M. M. Ismail who was impleaded as
respondent 2 in this writ petition, also filed an affidavit but the stand
he took was that he had decided not to challenge the legality or validity
of the Order of the President transferring him as Chief Justice of the
Kerala High Court and he did not want anyone to litigate for or against
him. Since Chief Justice M. M. Ismail, who was the person to whom legal
injury was caused by the Order of transfer, did not claim any relief and
made it clear that he did not want anyone to litigate for him, this writ
petition could not be maintained by the petitioner and it was liable to be
dismissed, but since the petitioner who was appearing in person, wanted to
make a few submission in regard to the scope and ambit of the power of
transfer, we heard her for some time. We may point out that whilst this
writ petition was pending, Chief Justice M. M. Ismail resigned his office
as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court and therefore, all the more,
nothing survives in this writ petition. 8. The sixth writ petition is that filed by A. Rajappa, an advocate
practising in the High Court of Madras. This writ petition was originally
filed in the High Court of Madras under Article 226 of the Constitution and
in this writ petition the petitioner challenged the constitutional validity
of the orders of transfer passed by the President on January 19, 1981
transferring Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of Madras High Court
as the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court and Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh,
Chief Justice of Patna High Court as the Chief justice of Madras High
Court. The principal grounds on which these two orders of transfer were
assailed as unconstitutional and void were substantially the same as those
urged in the fifth writ petition filed by Miss Lily Thomas, with only two
additional grounds, namely, that the transfers having been effected without
prior consultation with the Governors of the States to which the two Chief
Justices were transferred, were violative of clause (1) of Article 217 and
so far as the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh as Chief Justice of
Madras High Court was concerned, it was not in public interest, since Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh did not know the Tamil language. This writ petition
was withdrawn and transferred to itself by this Court since it raised
substantially the same issues as the fifth writ petition filed by Miss Lily
Thomas which was pending in this Court. The Union of India opposed this
writ petition by filing a counter-affidavit where it contended that the
transfers of both the Chief Justices were effected in public interest and
after consultation with the Chief Justice of India who is the only
authority required to be consulted whilst exercising the power of transfer
under Article 222 , clause (1) and the procedure prescribed by Article 217 ,
clause (1) had no application in the case of transfer of a Judge or Chief
Justice from one High Court to another. This writ petition was also
referred to a Bench of seven Judges along with the fifth writ petition and
that is how both these writ petitions have come up for hearing before us. 9. The seventh writ petition is that filed by P. Subramanian, an advocate
practising in the Madras High Court. This writ petition was originally
field in the Madras High Court under Article 226 and along with the other
writ petitions it was transferred to this court for hearing and final
disposal. The averments and prayers made in this writ petition are
substantially the same as those in the sixth writ petition filed by A.
Rajappa and so also are the statements made in the counter-affidavit filed
on behalf of the Union of India. This writ petition does not therefore need
any separate or independent consideration. 10. The eighth writ petition is that filed by D. N. Pandey and Thakur
Ramapati Sinha, two advocates practising in the High Court of Patna. This
writ petition was originally filed in the High Court of Patna under Article
226 and it challenged the constitutional validity of the Orders
transferring Chief Justice M. M. Ismail to the Kerala High Court and Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Madras High Court. The averments and prayers
made in this writ petition are substantially the same as those made in the
fifth, sixth and seventh writ petitions filed respectively by Miss Lilly
Thomas, A. Rajappa and P. Subramanian and it is therefore not necessary to
repeat them. Suffice it to state that this writ petition was also
transferred to this Court along with the other writ petitions under Article
139-A. Whilst this writ petition was pending, Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh,
who was originally impleaded as respondent 3 in the writ petition, applied
for being transposed, as petitioner 3 and since the original petitioners
had no objection to Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh joining them as co-
petitioner, this Court made an Order on September 17, 1981 transposing
Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh as petitioner 3. Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
thereafter filed an affidavit setting out in extenso what transpired
between him and the Chief Justice of India in regard to the proposal for
his transfer and detailing the various grounds on which he contended that
the order transferring him as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court was
unconstitutional and void. Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh contended inter
alia that the order transferring him as Chief Justice of the Madras High
Court was passed by the President by way of punishment and it was based on
irrelevant and insufficient grounds and was not in public interest and in
any event, it was not preceded by full and effective consultation with the
Chief Justice of India. The averments made by Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
in this affidavit were disputed by the Union of India in an affidavit sworn
by K. C. Kankan, Deputy secretary, Department of Justice, Ministry of Law,
Justice and Company Affairs and the Chief Justice of India also filed a
counter-affidavit in reply to the affidavit of Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh. The counter-affidavit of the Chief Justice of India prompted two
affidavits in rejoinder, one by Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh and the other
by petitioner 1 and 2. We shall have occasion to refer to these various
affidavits when we deal with rival arguments advanced on behalf of the
parties. 11. These last four writ petitions challenging the constitutional validity
of Orders of transfer of Chief Justice M. M. Ismail and Chief Justice K. B.
N. Singh raised identical issues and we would therefore dispose them of
together in one group. They may for the sake of convenience be referred as
the second group of writ petitions. 12. We may also at this stage refer to S. L. P. No. 1509 of 1981, filed by
Ripudaman Prasad Sinha in this Court. This petition for special leave is
directed against an order passed by the High Court of Patna rejecting the
writ petition of the petitioner challenging the constitutional validity of
the Order of transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, on the ground that
the petitioner had not been able to produce the documents on which he
wanted to place reliance. This is hardly a ground on which the writ
petition should have been rejected by the High Court in limine and we would
have therefore, ordinarily granted special leave to appeal against the
decision of the High Court, but in view of the fact that the issues sought
to be raised by the petitioner have already been agitated in the other writ
petitions, it is not necessary to grant special leave and hence we do not
propose to make any order on the special leave petition. Locus standi 13. When these writ petitions reached hearing before us, a preliminary
objection was raised by Mr. Mridul, appearing on behalf of the Law
Minister, challenging the locus standi of the petitioner in Iqbal Chagla's
writ petition. He urged that the petitioners in that writ petition had not
suffered any legal injury as a result of the issuance of the circular by
the Law Minister or the making of short-term appointments by the Central
Government and they had therefore no locus standi to maintain the writ
petition assailing the constitutional validity of the circular or the
short-term appointments. The legal injury, if at all, was caused to the
Additional Judges whose consent was sought to be obtained under the
circular or who were appointed for short terms and they alone were
therefore entitled to impugn the constitutionality of the circular and the
short-term appointments and not the petitioner. The basic postulate of the
argument was that it is only a person who has suffered legal injury who can
maintain a writ petition for redress and no third party can be permitted to
have access to the court for the purpose of seeking redress for the person
injured. The same preliminary objection as urged by Mr. Mridul against the
writ petition of S. P. Gupta and the contention was that the petitioner in
that writ petition not having suffered any legal injury had no locus standi
to maintain the writ petition. So far as the writ petition of V. M.
Tarkunde is concerned, Mr. Mridul said that he would have had the same
preliminary objection again that locus standi of the petitioner to maintain
that writ petition because the petitioner had suffered no legal injury, but
since S. N. Kumar had appeared, albeit as a respondent, and claimed relief
against the decision of the Central Government not to appoint him for a
further term and sought redress of the legal injury said to have been
caused to him as a result of such decision, the lack of locus standi on the
part of the petitioner was made good and the writ petition as maintainable.
Mr. Mridul asserted that if S. N. Kumar had not appeared and sought relief
against the decision of the Central Government discontinuing him as an
Additional Judge, the writ petition would have been liable to be rejected
at the thres-hold on the ground that the petitioner had no locus standi to
maintain the writ petition. This preliminary objection urged by Mr. Mridul
raised a very interesting question of law relating to locus standi, or as
the Americans call it 'standing', in the area so public law. This question
is of immense importance in a country like India where access to justice
being restricted by social and economic constraints, it is necessary to
democratise judicial remedies, remove technical barriers against easy
acessibility to justice and promote public interest litigation so that the
large masses of people belonging to the deprived and exploited sections of
humanity may be able to realise and enjoy the socio-economic rights granted
to them and these rights may become meaningful for them instead of
remaining mere empty hopes. 14. The traditional rule in regard to locus standi is that judicial redress
is available only to a person who has suffered a legal injury by reason of
violation of his legal right or legally protected interest by the impugned
action of the State or a public authority or any other person or who is
likely to suffer a legal injury by reason of threatened violation of his
legal right or legally protected interest by any such action. The basis of
entitlement to judicial redress is personal injury to property, body, mind
or reputation arising from violation, actual or threatened, of the legal
right or legally protected interest of the person seeking such redress.
This is a rule of ancient vintage and it arose during an era when private
law dominated the legal scene and public law had not yet been born. The
leading case in which this rule was enunciated and which marks the starting
point of almost every discussion on locus standi is Re Sidebotham, Ex parte
Sidebotham [14] Ch. 453 : 42 LT 783 : 28 WR 715 (CA)). There the Court was
concerned with the question whether the appellant could be said to be a
'person aggrieved' so as to be entitled to maintain the appeal. The Court
in a unanimous view held that the appellant was not entitled to maintain
the appeal because he was not a person aggrieved' by the decision of the
lower court. James L. J. gave a definition of 'person aggrieved' which,
though given in the context of the right to appeal against a decision of a
lower court, has been applied widely in determining the standing of a
person to seek judicial redress, with the result that it has stultified the
growth of the law in regard to judicial remedies. The learned Lord Justice
said that a 'person aggrieved' must be a man "who has suffered a legal
grievance, a man against whom a decision has been pronounced which has
wrongfully deprived him of something or wrongfully refused him something or
wrongfully affected his title to something" . This definition was approved
by Lord Esher M. R. in In re Reed, Bowen & Co., Ex parte Official Receiver
(19 QBD 174 : 56 LT 876 : 35 WR 660 (CA)) and the learned Master of the
Rolls made it clear that when James L. J. said that a person aggrieved must
be a man against whom a decision has been pronounced which has wrongfully
refused him of something, he obviously meant that the person aggrieved must
be a man who has been refused something which he had a right to demand.
There have been numereous subsequent decisions of the English courts where
this definition has been applied for the purpose of determining whether the
person seeking judicial redress had locus standi to maintain the action. It
will be seen that, according to this rule, it is only a person who has
suffered a specific legal injury by reason of actual or threatened
violation of his legal right or legally protected interest who can bring an
action for judicial redress. Now obviously where an applicant has a legal
right or a legally protected interest, the violation of which would result
in legal injury to him, there must be a corresponding duty owed by the
other party to the applicant. This rule in regard to locus standi thus
postulates a right-duty pattern which is commonly to be found in private
law litigation. But, narrow and rigid though this rule may be, there are a
few exceptions to it which have been evolved by the courts over the years. 15. In the first place a ratepayer of a local authority is accorded
standing to challenge an illegal action of the local authority. Thus, a
ratepayer can question the action of the municipality in granting a cinema
licence to a person, vide : K. Ramadas Shenoy v. Chief Officers, Town
Municipal Council, Udipi ). Similarly, the right of a ratepayer to challenge misuse of funds by a
municipality has also been recognised by the courts vide : Varadarajan v.
Salem Municipal Council : 1972 2 Mad LJ 485 : 85 Mad LW 705). The reason for this liberalisation of the rule in the case of a
taxpayer of a municipality is that his interest in the application of the
money of the municipality is direct and immediate and he has a close
relationship with the municipality. The courts in India have, in taking
this view, followed the decisions of the English courts. Secondly, if a
person is entitled to participate in the proceedings relating to the
decision-making process culminating in the impugned decision, he would have
locus standi to maintain an action challenging the impugned decision, vide
: Queen v. Bowman (1898 1 QB 663 : 67 LJQB 463 : 78 LT 230) where it was
held that any member of the public had a right to be heard in opposition to
an application for a licence and having such right, the applicant was
entitle to ask for mandamus directing the licencing Justices to hear and
determine the application for licence according to law. Thirdly, the
statute itself may expressly recognise the locus standi of an applicant,
even though no legal right or legally protected interest of the applicant
has been violated resulting in legal injury to him. For example, in Fasbhai
Motibhai Desai v. Roshan Kumar : 16. There is also another exception which has been carved out of this
strict rule of standing which requires that the applicant for judicial
redress must have suffered a legal wrong or injury in order to entitle him
to maintain an action for such redress. It is clear that, having regard to
this rule, no one can ordinarily seek judicial redress for legal injury
suffered by another person; it is only such other person who must bring
action for judicial redress. It is on this principle that the Supreme Court
of the United Stated held in U.S. v. Raines 362 US 17 : 4 L Ed 2d 524 1960)
that a litigant may only assert his own constitutional rights or immunities
and save in exceptional cases, no person can claim standing to vindicate
the constitutional rights of a third party. But it must now be regarded as
well-settled law where a person who has suffered a legal wrong or a legal
injury or whose legal right or legally protected interest is violated, is
unable to approach the court on account of some disability or it is not
practicable for him to move the court of some other sufficient reasons,
such as his socially or economically disadvantaged position, some other
person can invoke assistance of the court for the purpose of providing
judicial redress to the person wronged or inured, so that the legal wrong
or injury caused to such person does not go unredressed and justice is done
to him. Take for example, the case of a minor to whom a legal wrong has
been done or a legal injury caused. He obviously cannot on his own approach
the court because his disability arising from minority. The law therefor
provides that any other person acting as his next friend may bring an
action in his name for judicial redress, vide : Order XXXII of the Code of
Civil Procedure . So also where a person is detained and is therefore not in
a position to move the court for securing his release, any other person may
file an application for a writ of habeas corpus challenging the legality of
his detention. Of course, this Court has ruled in a number of cases that a
prisoner is entitled to address a communication directly to the court
complaining against his detention and seeking release and if he addresses
any such communication to the court, the Superintendent of the prison is
bound to forward it to the court and, in fact, there have been numerous
instances where this Court has acted on such communication received from a
prisoner and treating it as an application for a writ of habeas corpus,
called upon the detaining authority to justify the legality of such
detention and on the failure of the detaining authority to do so, released
the prisoner. But since a person detained would ordinarily be unable to
communicate with outside world, the law presumes that he will not be able
to approach the court and hence permits any other person to move the court
for judicial redress by filing an application for a writ of habeas corpus.
Similarly, where a transaction is entered into by the Board of Directors of
a company which is illegal or ultra vires the company, but the majority of
the shareholders are in favour of it and hence it is not possible for the
company to sue for setting aside the transaction, any shareholder may file
an action impugning the transaction. Here it is the company which suffers a
legal wrong or a legal injury by reason of the illegal or ultra vires
transaction impugned in the action, but an individual shareholder is
permitted to sue of redressing such legal wrong or injury to the company,
because otherwise the company being under the control of the majority
shareholders would be without judicial redress, vide : Atwool v.
Merryweather (1867 5 Equity 464, n; 37 LJ(Ch) 35 ). The Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council also affirmed this exception to the strict rule of
standing in Durayappah v. Fernando [1967] 2 A.C. 337 : [1967] 2 All E.R.
152(PC)). There what happened was that the Jaffna Municipal Council was
dissolved by the Minister of Local Government without giving it an
opportunity to be heard. The order of dissolution was therefor voidable at
the instance of the Council, but the Council did not complain. The
appellant was mayor at the time of the dissolution and he petitioned of a
writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the order of dissolution. Lord
Upjohn speaking on behalf of the Judicial Committee denied standing to the
appellant in the following words :The appellant was no doubt mayor at the
time of its dissolution but that does not give him any right to complain
independently of the council. He must show that he is representing the
council or suing on its behalf or that by reason of certain circumstances -
such for example as that the council could not use its seal because it is
in the possession of the Municipal Commissioner, or that of other reasons
it has been impracticable of the members of the council to meet to pass the
necessary resolutions - the council cannot be the plaintiff. The Judicial Committee thus clearly laid down that for a legal wrong or
legal injury caused to the council, it is only the council which can sue
but if a member of the council can show that for some sufficient reasons it
is not possible for the council to take action for challenging the order of
dissolution, he can file an application for a writ to assert the right of
the council and to redress the legal wrong or injury done to the council.
We find that in the united States of America also this exception has been
recognised and the strict rule of standing has been liberalised in the
interest of justice. In Barrows v. Jackson 346 US 249 : 97 L Ed 1586 1953),
the defendant was sued for breach of a restrictive covenant binding the
defendant not to sell his property to non-Caucasians and claiming damages.
The defendant raised the plea that the judgment of the court allowing
damages for breach of the covenant would constitute denial of the equal
protection clause to non-Caucasians, because a prospective seller of
restricted land would either refuse to sell to non-Caucasians or else would
require non-Caucasians to pay a higher price to meet the damages which the
seller may have to pay. The argument put forward in answer to this plea was
that the defendant was not entitled to plead in defence the constitutional
rights of non-Caucasians. But the Supreme Court of the United State
negatived this argument observing : "We are faced with a unique situation
in which it is an action of the State court which might result in a denial
of constitutional rights and in which it would be difficult if not
impossible for the persons whose rights are asserted to present their
grievance before any court." Even in our own country we have recognised
this departure from the strict rue of locus standi in cases where there has
been a violation of the constitutional or legal rights of persons who by
reason of their socially or economically disadvantaged position are unable
to approach the court for judicial redress. We have in such cases permitted
a member of the public to move the court of enforcement of the
constitutional or legal rights of such persons and judicial redress for the
legal wrong or legal injury caused to them. Take for example, the decision
of this Court in Sunil Batra (II) v. Delhi Administration ) where this Court accepted
the habeas corpus petition of a prisoner complaining of brutal assault by a
head warden on another prisoner. It may be incidentally mentioned - and
this is a point of some importance in the area of judicial remedies - that
in this case the court braodened the scope of habeas corpus by making it
available to a prisoner, not only for seeking his liberty, but also for the
enforcement of a constitutional right to which he was law fully entitled
even in confinement. Similarly, in Dr. Upendra Baxi v. State of U.P. (1981
3 Scale 1137) when it was found that the inmates of the Protective Home at
Agra were living in inhuman and degrading conditions in blatant violation
of Article 21 of the Constitution and by reason of their socially and
economically disadvantaged position, they were not in a position to move
the court of judicial redress, two law Professors of the Delhi University
addressed a letter to this Court seeking enforcement of the constitutional
right of the inmates under Article 21 by improvement of the living
conditions in the Protective Home, so that the inmates can live with human
dignity in the Protective Home. This Court treated the letter as a writ
petition and permitted the two law Professors to maintain an action for an
appropriate writ of the purpose of enforcing the constitutional right of
the inmates of the Protective Home and providing judicial redress to them.
This Court has also entertained a letter addressed by a journalist claiming
relief against demolition of hutments of pavement dwellers by the Municipal
Corporation of Bombay and this letter has been treated as a writ petition
by a Bench presided over by the Chief Justice of India and interim relief
has been granted to the pavement dwellers. 17. It may therefore now be taken as well established that where a legal
wrong or a legal injury is caused to a person or to a determinate class of
person by reason of violation of any constitutional or legal right or any
burden is imposed in contravention of any constitutional or legal provision
or without authority of law or any such legal wrong or legal injury or
illegal burden is threatened and such person or determinate class of
persons is by reason of poverty, helplessness or disability or socially or
economically disadvantaged position, unable to approach the court for
relief, any member of the public can maintain an application for an
appropriate direction, order or writ in the High Court under Article 226 and in case of breach of any fundamental right of such person or
determinate class of persons, in this Court under Article 32 seeking
judicial redress for the legal wrong or injury caused to such person or
determinate class of person. Where the weaker sections of the community are
concerned, such as under-trial prisoners languishing in jails without a
trial, inmates of the Protective Home in Agra, or Harijan workers engaged
in road construction in the district of Ajmer, who are living in poverty
and destitution, who are barely eking out a miserable existence with their
sweat and toil, who are helpless victims of an exploitative society and who
do not have easy access to justice, this Court will not insist on a regular
writ petition to be filed by the public-spirited individual espousing their
cause and seeking relief for them. This Court will readily respond even to
a letter addressed by such individual acting pro bono publico. It is true
that there are rules made by this Court prescribing the procedure for
moving this Court for relief under Article 32 and they require various
formalities to be gone through by a person seeking to approach this Court.
But it must not be forgotten that procedure is but a handmaiden of justice
and the cause of justice can never be allowed to be thwarted by any
procedural technicalities. The court would therefore unhesitatingly and
without the slightest qualms of conscience cast aside the technical rules
of procedure in the exercise of its dispensing power and treat the letter
of the public-minded individual as a writ petition and act upon it. Today a
vast revolution is taking place in the judicial process; the theatre of the
law is fast changing and the problems of the poor are coming to the
forefront. The court has to innovate new methods and devise new strategies
for the purpose of providing access to justice to large masses of people
who are denied their basic human rights and to whom freedom and liberty
have no meaning. The only way in which this can be done is by entertaining
writ petitions and even letters from public spirited individuals seeking
judicial redress for the benefit of persons who have suffered a legal wrong
or a legal injury or whose constitutional or legal right has been violated
but who by reason of their poverty or socially or economically
disadvantaged position are unable to approach the court for relief. It is
in this spirit that the court has been entertaining letters for judicial
redress and treating them as writ petitions and we hope and trust that the
High Courts of the country will also adopt this pro-active, goal oriented
approach. But we must hasten to make it clear that the individual who moves
the court for judicial redress in cases of this kind must be acting bona
fide with a view to vindicating the cause of justice and it he is acting
for personal gain or private profit or out of political motivation or other
oblique consideration, the court should not allow itself to be activised at
the instance of such person and must reject his application at the
threshold, whether it be in the form of a letter addressed to the court or
even in the form of a regular writ petition filed in court. We may also
point out that as a matte of prudence and not as a rule of law, the court
may confine this strategic exercise of jurisdiction to cases where legal
wrong or legal injury is caused to a determinate class or group of persons
or the constitutional or legal right or such determinate class or group of
persons is violated and as far as possible, not entertain cases off
individual wrong or injury at the instance of a third party, where there is
an effective legal-aid organisation which can take care of such cases. 18. The types of cases which we have dealt with so far for the purpose of
considering the question of locus standi are those where there is a
specific legal injury either to the applicant or to some other person or
persons for whose benefit the action is brought, arising from violation of
some constitutional or legal right or legally protected interest. What is
complained of in these cases is a specific legal injury suffered by a
person or a determinate class or group of persons. But there may be cases
where the State or a public authority may act in violation of a
constitutional or statutory obligation or fail to carry out such
obligation, resulting in injury to public interest or what may conveniently
be termed as public injury as distinguished from private injury. Who would
have standing to complain against such act or omission of the State or
public authority ? Can any member of the public sue for judicial redress ?
Or is the standing limited only to a certain class of persons ? Or is there
no one who can complain and the public injury must go unredressed ? To
answer these questions it is first of all necessary to understand what is
the true purpose of the judicial function. This is what Prof. Thio states
in his book on Locus Standi and Judicial Review : 19. There is also another reason why the rule of locus standi need to be
liberalised. Today we find that law is being increasingly used as a device
of organised social action for the purpose of bringing about socio-economic
change. The task of national reconstruction upon which we are engaged has
brought about enormous increase in developmental activities and law is
being utilised for the purpose of development, social and economic. It is
creating more and more a new category of rights in favour of large sections
of people and imposing a new category of duties on the State and the public
officials with a view to reaching social justice to the common man.
Individual rights and duties are giving place to meta-individual,
collective, social rights and duties of classes or groups of persons. This
is not to say that individual rights have ceased to have a vital place in
our society but it is recognised that these rights are practicably
meaningless in today's setting unless accompanied by the social rights
necessary to make them effective and really accessible to all. The new
social and economic rights which are sought to be created in pursuance of
the Directive Principles of State Policy essentially require active
intervention of the State and other public authorities. Amongst these
social and economic rights are freedom from indigency, ignorance and
discrimination as well as the right to a healthy environment, to social
security and to protection from financial, commercial, corporate or even
governmental oppression. More and more frequently the conferment of these
socio-economic rights and imposition of public duties on the State and
other authorities for taking positive action generates situations in which
a single human action can be beneficial or prejudicial to a large number of
people, thus making entirely inadequate the traditional scheme of
litigation as merely a two-party affair. For example, the discharge of
effluent in a lake or river may harm all who want to enjoy its clean water;
emission of noxious gas may cause injury to large numbers of people who
inhale it along with the air; defective or unhealthy packaging may cause
damage to all consumers of goods and so also illegal raising of railway or
bus fares may affect the entire public which wants to use the railway or
bus as a means of transport. In cases of this kind it would not be possible
to say that any specific legal injury is caused to an individual or to a
determinate class or group of individuals. What results in such cases is
public injury and it is one of the characteristics of public injury that
the act or acts complained of cannot necessarily be shown to affect the
rights of determinate or identifiable class or group of persons : Public
injury is an injury to an indeterminate class of persons. In these cases
the duty which is breached giving rise to the injury is owed by the State
or a public authority not to any specific or determinate class or group of
persons, but to the general public. In other words, the duty is one which
is not correlative to any individual rights. Now if breach of such public
duty were allowed to go unredressed because there is no one who has
received a specific legal injury or who was entitled to participate in the
proceedings pertaining to the decision relating to such public duty, the
failure to perform such public duty would go unchecked and it would promote
disrespect for the rule of law. It would also open the door for corruption
and inefficiency because there would be no check on exercise of public
power except what may be provided by the political machinery, which at best
would be above to exercise only a limited control and at worst, might
become a participant in misuse or abuse of power. It would also make the
new social collective rights and interests created for the benefit of the
deprived sections of the community meaningless and ineffectual. 20. Now, as pointed out by Cappelletti in Volume III of his classic work on
Access to Justice at page 520, "The traditional doctrine of standing
(legitimatio ad causam) attributes the right to sue either to the private
individual who 'holds' the right which is in need of judicial protection or
in case of public rights, to the State itself, which sues in courts through
its organs." The principle underlying the traditional rule of standing is
that only the holder of the right can sue and it is therefore, held in many
jurisdictions that since the State representing the public is the holder of
the public rights, it alone can sue for redress of public injury or
vindication of public interest. It is on this principle that in the United
Kingdom, the Attorney-General is entrusted with the function of enforcing
due observance of the law. The Attorney-General represents the public
interest in its entirety and as pointed out by S. A. de Smith in Judicial
Review of Administrative Action (Third Edition) at page 403, "the general
public has an interest in seeing that the law is obeyed and for this
purpose, the Attorney-General represents the public" . There is, therefore,
a machinery in the United Kingdom for judicial redress for public injury
and protection of social, collective, what Cappelletti calls 'diffuse'
rights and interest. We have no such machinery here. We have undoubtedly an
Attorney-General as also Advocates General in the States, but they do not
represent the public interest generally. They do so in a very limited
field; see Section 91 and 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. But,
even if we had a provision empowering the Attorney-General or the Advocate
General to take action for vindicating public interest, I doubt very much
whether it would be effective. The Attorney-General or the Advocate General
would be too dependent upon the political branches of government to act as
an advocate against abuses which are frequently generated or at least
tolerated by political and administrative bodies. Be that as it may, the
fact remains that we have no such institution in our country and we have
therefore to liberalise the rule of standing in order to provide judicial
redress for public injury arising from breach of public duty or form other
violation of the Constitution or the law. If public duties are to be
enforced and social collective 'diffused' rights and interests are to be
protected, we have to utilise the initiative and zeal of public-minded
persons and organisations by allowing them to move the court and act for a
general or group interest, even though, they may not be directly injured in
their own rights. It is for this reason that in public interest litigation - litigation undertaken for the purpose of redressing public injury,
enforcing public duty, protecting social, collective, 'diffused' rights and
interests or vindicating public interest, any citizen who is acting bona
fide and who has sufficient interest has to be accorded standing. What is
sufficient interest to give standing to a member of the public would have
to be determined by the occur in each individual case. It is not possible
for the court to lay down any hard and fast rule or any strait-jacket
formula for the purpose of defining or delimiting 'sufficient interest'. It
has necessarily to be left to the discretion of the court. The reason is
that in a modern complex society which is seeking to bring about
transformation of its social and economic structure and trying to reach
social justice to the vulnerable sections of the people by creating new
social, collective 'diffuse' rights and interests and imposing new public
duties on the State and other public authorities, infinite number of
situations are bound to arise which cannot be imprisoned in a rigid mould
or a procrustean formula. The judge who has the correct social perspective
and who is on the same wavelength as the Constitution will be able to
decide, without any difficulty and in consonance with the constitutional
objectives, whether a member of the public moving the court in a particular
case has sufficient interest to initiate the action. 21. It is interesting to note that the concept of public interest
litigation had its origin in the United States and over the years, it has
passed through various vicissitudes in the country of its origin. We do not
propose to enumerate or examine various decisions given by the Supreme
Court of the United States from time to time in regard to standing in
public interest litigation, for no useful purpose would be served by such
exercise. Suffice it to state that in that country, the strict requirement
of legal interest has been watered down. Justice Douglas said in Data
Processing Service v. Camp 397 US 150 : 25 L Ed 2d 184) that "the legal
interest test goes to the merits. The question of standing is different" .
Similarly Justice Brennan, citing Flat (Flast v. Cohen, 392 US 83 : 20 L Ed
2d 947 1968), observed that "the question is whether the person whose
standing is challenged is a proper party to request an adjudication of a
particular issue and not..... whether the plaintiff had a legally protected
interest which the defendant's action invaded" . This view also found
expression in Office of Communication of the United Church of Christ v. FCC
(US App DC 328) wherein the standing of television viewers was upheld with
the following observations : Since the concept of standing is "one designed
to assure that only one with a genuine and legitimate interest can
participate in a proceedings, we can see on reason to exclude those with
such an obvious and acute concern as the listening audience". Vide article
on" Evolving Trends in Locus Standi : Models for Social Justice
Dispensation" by D. Y. Chandrachud. (Journal of the Bar Council of India,
Vol. VIII(4) 1981, p. 672) But of late, there has been a slight regression
in this dynamic approach. See U.S. v. Richardson 418 US 166 ) and Warth v.
Seldin 422 US 490 ), where the Supreme Court of United States seems to have
recoiled a little against expansion of its judicial power. 22. So far as the United Kingdom is concerned, there have been remarkable
developments in this area in recent times largely due to the dynamic
activism of Lord Denning. The McWhirter v Independent Broadcasting
Authority [1973] 1 All E.R. 689 (CA)) and the three well-known R. v Greater
London Council Ex p. Blackburn [1976] 3 All E.R. 184 (CA)) clearly
establish that any member of the public having sufficient interest can
maintain an action for enforcing a public duty against a statutory or
public authority. We need not make a detailed reference to all these cases
but it will be sufficient if we refer to the McWhirter v Independent
Broadcasting Authority [1973] 1 All E.R. 689 (CA)) and one of the three R.
v Greater London Council Ex p. Blackburn [1976] 3 All E.R. 184 (CA)). The
McWhirter v Independent Broadcasting Authority [1973] 1 All E.R. 689 (CA))
is reported in Attorney-General v. Independent Broadcasting Authority
[1973] 1 All E.R. 689 (CA)). This was an action by McWhirter for injunction
against the Broadcasting Authority which was threatening to show a film
which did not comply with the statutory requirements and the showing of
which would therefore be illegal. Lord Denning considered the question
whether McWhirter had locus standi to bring the action when leave to bring
a relator action was refused by the Attorney-General, and answering this
question in the affirmative, he said : 23. We would therefore, hold that any member of the public having
sufficient interest can maintain an action for judicial redress for public
injury arising from breach of public duty or from violation of some
provision of the Constitution or the law and seek enforcement of such
public duty and observance of such constitutional or legal provision. This
is absolutely essential for maintaining the rule of law, furthering the
cause of justice and accelerating the pace of realisation of the
constitutional objectives. "Law", as pointed out by Justice Krishna Iyer in Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union (Regd.) v. Union of India ) "is a social auditor and
this audit function can be put into action only when someone with real
public interest ignites the jurisdiction" (SCC p. 585). A fear is sometimes
expressed that if we keep the door wide open for any member of the public
to enter the portals of the court to enforce public duty or to vindicate
public interest, the court will be flooded with litigation. But this fear
is totally unfounded and the argument based upon it is answered completely
by the Australian Law Reforms Commission in the following words : (SCC p.
587, para 43)The idle and whimsical plaintiff, a dilettante who litigates
for a lark, is a specter which haunts the legal literature, not the court
room, [Prof. K. E. Scott : Standing in the Supreme Court : A Functional
Analysis 1973, p. 86]

A major expressed reason for limiting standing rights is fear of a spate of
actions brought by busybodies which will unduly extend the resources of the
courts. No argument is easier put, none more difficult to rebut. Even if
the fear be justified it does not follow that present restrictions should
remain. If proper claims exist it may be necessary to provide resources for
their determination. However, the issue must be considered. ...... Over recent years successive decisions of the United States Supreme
Court have liberalised standing so as to afford a hearing to any person
with a real interest in the relevant controversy. Surveying the result in
1973 Professor Scott commented : (Op. cit, p. 673)

When the floodgates of litigation are opened to some new class of
controversy by a decision it is notable how rarely one can discern the
flood that the dissentors feared. Professor Scott went on to point out that the liberalised standing rules
had caused on significant increase in the number of actions brought,
arguing that parties will not litigate at considerable personal cost unless
they have a real interest in a matter. We wholly endorse these remarks of the Australian Law Reforms Commission.
We may add, with Justice Krishna Iyer (SCC p. 585) : "In a society where
freedoms suffer from atrophy and activism is essential for participative
public justice, some risks have to be taken and more opportunities opened
for the public-minded citizen to rely on the legal process and not be
repelled from it by narrow pedantry now surrounding locus standi." It is
also interesting to note that in India, as in other Commonwealth countries,
the strict rule of standing does not apply to a writ of quo warranto or a
ratepayer's action against a municipality, but there is no evidence that
this has let loose the floodgates of litigation in these areas. The time,
money and other inconveniences involved in litigating a case act as
sufficient deterrents for most of us to take recourse to legal action, vide
article of Dr. S. N. Jain on Standing and Public Interest Litigation. 24. But we must be careful to see that the member of the public, who
approaches the court in cases of this kind, is acting bona fide and not for
personal gain or private profit or political motivation or other oblique
consideration. The court must not allow its process to be abused by
politicians and others to delay legitimate administrative action or to gain
a political objective. Andre Rabie has warned that "political pressure
groups who could not achieve their aims though the administrative
process"and we might add, thorough the political process," may try to use
the courts to further their aims" . These are some of the dangers in public
interest litigation which the court has to be careful to avoid. It is also
necessary for the court to bear in mind that there is a vital distinction
between locus standi and justiciability and it is not every default on the
part of the State or a public authority that is justiciable. The court must
take care to see that it does not overstep the limits of its judicial
function and trespass into areas which are reserved to the Executive and
the Legislature by the Constitution. It is a fascinating exercise for the
court to deal with public interest litigation because it is a new
jurisprudence which the court is evolving, a jurisprudence which demands
judicial statesmanship and high creative ability. The frontiers of public
law are expanding far and wide and new concepts and doctrines which will
change the complexion of the law and which were so far as embedded in the
womb of the future, are beginning to be born. 25. Before we part with this general discussion in regard to locus standi,
there is one point we would like to emphasise and it is, that cases may
arise where there is undoubtedly public injury by the act or omission of
the State or a public authority but such act or omission also causes a
specific legal injury to an individual or to a specific class or group of
individuals. In such cases, a member of the public having sufficient
interest can certainly maintain an action challenging the legality of such
act or omission, but if the person or specific class or group of persons
who are primarily injured as a result of such act or omission, do not wish
to claim any relief and accept such act or omission willingly and without
protest, the member of the public who complains of a secondary public
injury cannot maintain the action, for the effect of entertaining the
action at the instance of such member of the public would be to foist a
relief on the person or specific class or group of persons primarily
injured, which they do not want. 26. If we apply these principles to determine the question of locus standi
in the writ petition of Iqbal Chagla in which alone this question has been
sharply raised, it will be obvious that the petitioners had clearly and
indisputably locus standi to maintain their writ petition. The petitioners
are lawyers practising the High Court of Bombay. The first petitioner is a
member of the Bombay Bar Association, petitioners 2 and 3 are members of
the Advocates Association of Western India and petitioner 4 is the
President of the Incorporated Law Society. There can be no doubt that the
petitioners have a vital interest in the independence of the judiciary and
if any unconstitutional or illegal action is taken by the State or any
public authority which has the effect of impairing the independence of the
judiciary, the petitioners would certainly be interested in challenging the
constitutionality or legality of such action. The profession of lawyers is
an essential and integral part of the judicial system and lawyers may
figuratively be described as priests in the temple of justice. They assist
the court in dispensing justice and it can hardly be disputed that without
their help, it would be wellnigh impossible for the Court to administer
justice. They are really and truly officers of the Court in which they
daily sit and practice. They have therefore, a special interest in
preserving the integrity and independence of the judicial system and if the
integrity or independence of the judiciary is threatened by any act of the
State or any public authority, they would naturally be concerned about it,
because they are equal partners with the Judges in the administration of
justice. Iqbal Chagla and others cannot be regarded as mere bystanders or
meddlesome interlopers in filing the writ petition. The complaint of the
petitioners in the writ petition was that the circular letter issued by the
Law Minister constituted a serious threat to the independence of the
judiciary and it was unconstitutional and void and if this complaint be
true, and for the purpose of determining the standing of the petitioners to
file the writ petition, we must assume this complaint to be correct, the
petitioners already had locus standi to maintain the writ petition. The
circular letter, on the averments made in the writ petition, did not cause
any specific legal injury to an individual or to a determinate class or
group of individuals, but it caused public injury by prejudicially
affecting the independence of the judiciary. The petitioners being lawyers
had sufficient interest to challenge the constitutionality of the circular
letter and they were, therefore entitled to file the writ petition as a
public interest litigation. They had clearly a concern deeper than that of
a busybody and they cannot be told off at the gates. We may point out that
this was precisely the principle applied by this Court to uphold the
standing of the Fertiliser Corporation Kamgar Union to challenge the sale
of a part of the undertaking by the Fertiliser Corporation of India in Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union v. Union of India ). Justice Krishna Iyer pointed out
that if a citizen "belongs to an organization which has special interest in
the subject-matter, if he has some concern deeper than that of a busybody,
he cannot be told off at the gates, although whether the issue raised by
him in justiciable may still remain to be considered" (SCC p. 589, para 48). we must therefore, hold that Iqbal Chagla and others had locus standi
to maintain their writ petition. What we have said in relation to the writ
petition of Iqbal Chagla and others must apply equally in relation to the
writ petitions of S. P. Gupta and J. C. Kalra and others. So far as the
writ petition of V. M. Tarkunde is concerned, Mr. Mridul, learned Advocate
appearing on behalf of the Law Minister, did not contest the
maintainability of that writ petition since S. N. Kumar to whom, according
to the averments made in the writ petition, a specific legal injury was
caused, appeared in the writ petition and claimed relief against the
decision of the Central Government to discontinue him as an Additional
Judge. We must, therefore, reject the preliminary objection raised by Mr.
Mridul challenging the locus standi of the petitioners in the first group
of writ petitions.Concept of Independence of the Judiciary 27. Having disposed of the preliminary objection in regard to locus standi
of the petitioners, we may now proceed to consider the questions which
arise for determination in these writ petitions. The questions are of great
constitutional significance affecting the principle of independence of the
judiciary which is a basic feature of the Constitution and we would
therefore prefer to being the discussion by making a few prefatory remarks
highlighting what the true function of the judiciary should be in a country
like India which is marching along the road to social justice with the
banner of democracy and the rule of law, for the principle of independence
of the judiciary is not an abstract conception but it is a living faith
which must derive its inspiration from the constitutional charter and its
nourishment and sustenance from the constitutional values. It is necessary
for every Judge to remember constantly and continually that our
Constitutional is not a non-aligned national charter. It is a document of
social revolution which casts an obligation on every instrumentality
including the judiciary, which is a separate but equal branch of the State,
to transform the status quo ante into a new human order in which justice,
social, economic and political will inform all institutions of national
life and there will be equality of status and opportunity for all. The
judiciary has therefore a socio-economic destination and a creative
function. It has to use the words of Glanville Austin, to become an arm of
the socio-economic revolution and perform an active role calculated to
bring social justice within the reach of the common man. It cannot remain
content to act merely as an umpire but it must be functionally involved in
the goal of socio-economic justice. The British concept of justicing, which
to quote Justice Krishna Iyer (Mainstream, November 22, 1980), is still
"hugged by the heirs of our colonial legal culture and shared by many on
the Bench"is that" the business of a Judge is to hold his tongue until the
last possible moment and to try to be as wise as he is paid to look" and in
the same strain are the words quoted by Professor Gordon Reid from a
memorandum to the Victorian Government by Irvin, C.J. in 1923 where the
judicial function was idealised in the following words :The duty of His
Majesty's Judges is to hear and determine issues of fact and of law arising
between the king and the subject or between a subject and a subject
presented in a form enabling judgment to be passed upon them, and when
passed, to be enforced by a process of law. There begins and ends the
function of the judiciary. Now this approach to the judicial function may be alright for a stable and
static society but not for a society pulsating with urges of gender
justice, worker justice, minorities justice, dalit justice and equal
justice, between chronic unequals. Where the contest is between those who
are socially or economically unequal, the judicial process may prove
disastrous from the point of view of social justice, if the Judge adopts a
merely passive or negative role and does not adopt a positive and creative
approach. The judiciary cannot remain a mere bystander or spectator but it
must become an active participant in the judicial process ready to use law
in the service of social justice through a pro-active goal-oriented
approach. But this cannot be achieved unless we have judicial cadres who
share the fighting faith of the Constitution and who are imbued with the
constitutional values. The necessity of a judiciary which is in tune with
the social philosophy of the Constitution has nowhere been better
emphasised than in the words of Justice Krishna Iyer which we quote : 28. We may first examine the true meaning and import of Article 216 which
provides for the constitution of High Courts. This article when originally
enacted in the Constitution consisted of the main provision and a proviso
but the proviso was deleted by Section 11 of the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956 with the result that since November 1, 1956 when the
amending Act came into force, this Article consists of only one clause
which reads as under : 29. The next question that arises for consideration is as to where is the
power to appoint Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court located ?
Who has the final voice in the appointment of Judges of High Courts and the
Supreme Court ? The power of appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court is
to be found in clause (2) of Article 124 and this clause provides that
every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President after
consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and the High
Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose,
provided that in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice, the Chief Justice of India shall always be consulted. It is
obvious on a plain reading of clause (2) of Article 124 that it is the
President, which in effect and substance means the Central Government,
which is empowered by the Constitution to appoint Judges of the Supreme
Court. So also Article 217 , clause (1) vests the power of appointment, of
Judges of High Courts in the Central Government, but such power is
exercisable only "after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the
Governor of the State, and, the Chief Justice of the High Court." It is
clear on a plain reading of these two articles that the Chief Justice of
India, the Chief Justice of the High court, and such other Judges of the
High Courts and of the Supreme Court as the Central Government may deem it
necessary to consult, are merely constitutional functionaries having a
consultative role and the power of appointment resides solely and
exclusively in the Central Government. It is not an unfettered power in the
sense that the Central Government cannot act arbitrarily without consulting
the constitutional functionaries specified in the two articles but it can
act only after consulting them and the consultation must be full and
effective consultation. 30. The question immediately arises what constitutes 'consultation' within
the meaning of clause (2) of Article 124 and clause (1) of Article 217. Fortunately, this question is no longer res integra and it stands concluded
by the decision of this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case (Union of India
v.Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth, ). It is true that the question in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , related 
to the scope and meaning of 'consultation' in clause (1) of Article 222 , but it was common ground between the parties that
'consultation' for the purpose of clause (2) of Article 124 and clause (1)
of Article 217 has the same meaning and content as 'consultation' in clause
(1) of Article 222. Chandrachud, J., as he then was, in his judgment in Sankalchand Sheth case (Union of India v.Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth, quoted 
with approval the following passage from the judgment given by

Justice Subba Rao, when he was Judge of the Madras High Court in R. Pushpam
v. State of Madras : 1953 1 Mad LJ 88 : 66 Mad LW 53
SCC(p) 228 ), "The word 'consult' implies a conference of two or more
persons or an impact of two or more minds in respect of a topic in order to
enable them to evolve a correct or at least a satisfactory solution"and
added :" In order that the two minds may be able to confer and produce a
mutual impact, it is essential that each must have for its consideration
full and identical facts, which can at once constitute both the source and
foundation of the final decision" . Krishna Iyer, J. speaking on behalf of
himself and Fazal Ali, J. also pointed out that "all the materials in the
possession of one who consults must be unreservedly placed before the
consultee"and further" a reasonable opportunity for getting information,
taking other steps and getting prepared for tendering effective and
meaningful advice must be given to him"and" the consultant in turn must
take the matter seriously since the subject is of grave importance"(SCC p. 267). The learned Judge proceeded to add (SCC p. 267) :" Therefore, it
follows that the President must communicate to the Chief Justice all the
material he has and the course he propose. The Chief Justice, in turn, must
collect necessary information through responsible channels or directly,
acquaint himself with the requisite data, deliberate on the information he
possesses and proceed in the interests of the administration of justice to
give the President such counsel of action as he thinks will further the
public interest, especially the cause of the justice system." These
observations apply with equal force to determine the scope and meaning of
'consultation' within the meaning of clause (2) of Article 124 and clause
(1) of Article 217. Each of the constitutional functionaries required to be
consulted under these two articles must have for his consideration full and
identical facts bearing upon appointment or non-appointment of the person
concerned as a Judge and the opinion of each of them taken on identical
material must be considered by the Central Government before it takes a
decision whether or not to appoint the person concerned as a Judge. But,
while giving the fullest meaning and effect to 'consultation', it must be
borne in mind that it is only consultation which is provided by way of
fetter upon the power of appointment vested in the Central Government and
consultation cannot be equated with concurrence. We agree with what Krishna
Iyer, J. said in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himmatlal Sheth , that "consultation is different from
consentaneity. They may discuss but may disagree; they may confer but may
not concur" (SCC p. 268). It would therefore be open to the Central
Government to override the opinion given by the constitutional
functionaries required to be consulted and to arrive at its own decision in
regard to the appointment of a Judge in the High Court or the Supreme
Court, so long as such decisions is based on relevant considerations and is
not otherwise mala fide. Even if the opinion given by all the
constitutional functionaries consulted by it is identical, the Central
Government is not bound to act in accordance with such opinion, though
being a unanimous opinion of all the three constitutional functionaries, it
would have great weight and an appointment is made by the Central
Government in defiance of such unanimous opinion, it may prima facie by
vulnerable to attack on the ground that it is mala fide or based on
irrelevant grounds. The same position would obtain if an appointment is
made by the Central Government contrary to the unanimous opinion of the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India. But we do
not think that ordinarily the Central Government would make an appointment
of a Judge in a High Court if all the three constitutional functionaries
have expressed an opinion against it. We may, however, make it clear that
on a proper interpretation of clause (2) of Article 124 and clause (1) of Article 217 , it is open to the Central Government to take its own decision
in regard to appointment or non-appointment of a Judge in a High court or
the Supreme Court after taking into account and giving due weight to the
opinions expressed by the constitutional functionaries required to be
consulted under these two Articles and the only ground on which such
decision can be assailed is that it is mala fide or based on irrelevant
considerations. Where there is a difference of opinion amongst the
constitutional functionaries who are consulted, it is for the Central
Government to decide whose opinion should be accepted and whether
appointment should be made or not. It was contended on behalf of the
petitioners there were there is deference of opinion amongst the
constitutional functionaries required to be consulted, the opinion of the
Chief Justice of India should have primacy, since he is the head of the
Indian Judiciary and paterfamilias of the judicial fraternity. We find
ourselves unable to accept this contention. It is difficult to see on what
principles can primacy be given to the opinion of one constitutional
functionary, when clause (1) of Article 217 places all the three
constitutional functionaries on the same pedestal so far as the process of
consultation is concerned and does not make any distinction between one
constitutional functionary and another. Each of the three constitutional
functionaries occupies a high Constitutional office and clause (1) of Article 217 provides that the appointment of a High Court Judge shall be
made after consultation with all the three constitutional functionaries
without assigning superiority to the opinion of one over that of another.
It is true that the Chief Justice of India is the head of the Indian
Judiciary and may be figuratively described and paterfamilias of the
brotherhood of Judges but the Chief Justice of a High Court is also an
equally important constitutional functionary and it is not possible to say
that so far as the consultative process is concerned, he is in any way less
important than the Chief Justice of India. In fact, under the
constitutional scheme, the Chief Justice of a High Court is not subject to
the administrative superintendence of the Chief Justice of India nor is he
under the control or supervision of the Chief Justice of India. It is only
the power of hearing appeals against the decision of the Chief Justice of a
High Court that is possessed by the Chief Justice of India and there, his
superiority over the Chief Justice of the High Court ends. If we look at
the raison d'etre of the provision for consultation enacted in clause (1)
of Article 217 , it will be obvious that the opinion given by the Chief
Justice of the High Court must have at least equal weight as the opinion of
the Chief Justice of India, because ordinarily the Chief Justice of the
High Court would be in a better position to know about the competence,
character and integrity of the person recommended for appointment as a
Judge in the High Court. The opinion of the Governor of the State, which
means the State Government would also be entitled to equal weight, not in
regard to the technical competence of the person recommended and him
knowledge and perception of law on which the Chief Justice of the High
Court would be the proper person to express an opinion, but in regard to
the character and integrity of such person, his antecedents and his social
philosophy and value-system. So also the opinion of the Chief Justice of
India would be valuable because he would not be affected by caste, communal
or other parochial considerations and standing outside the turmoil of local
passions and prejudices, he would be able to look objectively at the
problem of appointment. There is therefore, a valid and intelligible
purpose for which the opinion of each of the three constitutional
functionaries is invited before the Central Government can take a decision
whether or not to appoint a particular person as a Judge in a High Court.
The opinion of each of the three constitutional functionaries is entitled
to equal weight and it is not possible to say that the opinion of the Chief
Justice of India must have primacy over the opinions of the other two
constitutional functionaries. If primacy were to be given to the opinion of
the Chief Justice of India, it would, in effect and substance, amount to
concurrence, because giving primacy would mean that his opinion must
prevail over that of the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Governor
of the State, which means that the Central Government must accept his
opinion. But as we pointed out earlier, it is only consultation and not
concurrence of the Chief Justice of India that is provided in clause (1) of Article 217. When, in the course of debates in the Constituent Assembly, an
amendment was moved that the appointment of a Judge of a High Court or the
Supreme Court should be made with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of
India, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar made the following comment which is very
significant : 31. However, at this stage, it is necessary to point out that so far as
appointment of a Supreme Court Judge is concerned, it is not consultation
with the Chief Justice of India alone that is provided in clause (2) of Article 124. Undoubtedly, consultation with the Chief Justice of India is a
mandatory requirement but in addition "such of the Judges of the Supreme
Court and of the High Courts" as the Central Government may deem necessary
are also required to be consulted. One argument advanced on behalf of the
petitioners was that when clause (2) of the Article 124 uses the expression
"after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the
High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the
purpose" , it does not impose a mandatory obligation on the Central
Government to consult one or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the
High Courts but it leaves it to the discretion of the Central Government
whether or not to consult one or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court or
the High Courts before making appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court.
The petitioners contended that the Central Government may, if it thinks
fit, consult one or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High
Courts or it may not consult any and where it does not, the Chief Justice
of India will be the only constitutional functionary required to be
consulted and in such a case the Central Government must accept the opinion
of the Chief Justice of India as binding upon it. We do not think this
argument is well founded. In the first place it is not justified by the
plaint language of clause (2) of Article 124. This clause clearly provides
for consultation as a mandatory exercise and the only matter which is left
to the desecration of the Central Government is the choice of the Judge of
the Supreme Court and the High Courts who may be consulted. The words "as
the President may deem necessary" qualify only the preceding works "such of
the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States."
Which of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts should be
consulted is left to the discretion of the Central Government but
consultation there must be with one or more of the Judges of the Supreme
Court and of the High Courts. The Central Government must consult at least
one Judge out of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts
before exercising the power of appointment conferred by clause (2) of Article 124. This requirement is prescribed obviously because the
Constitution -markers did not think it desirable that one person alone,
howsoever high and eminent he may be, should have a predominant voice in
the appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court. But it seems that this
requirement is not complied with in making appointments on the Supreme
Court Bench presumably under a misconception that it is not a mandatory but
only an optional provision. The result is that the Chief Justice of India
alone is consulted in the matter of appointment of a Supreme Court Judge
and largely as a result of a healthy practice followed thorough the years,
the recommendation of the Chief Justice of India is ordinarily accepted by
the Central Government, the consequence being that in a highly important
matter like the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge, it is the decision of
the Chief Justice of India which is ordinarily, for all practical purposes
final. But, as it happens, there are no criteria laid down or evolved to
guide the Chief Justice in this respect nor is there any consultation with
wider interests. This is, to our mind, not a very satisfactory mode of
appointment, because wisdom and experience demand that no power should be
vested in a single individual howsoever high and great he may be and
howsoever honest and well-meaning. We are all human beings with our own
likes and dislikes, our own predilections and prejudices and our mind is
not so comprehensive as to be able to take in all aspects of a question at
one time and moreover sometimes, the information on which we base our
judgments may be incorrect or inadequate and our judgment may also
sometimes be imperceptibly influenced by extraneous or irrelevant
considerations,. It may also be noticed that it is not difficult to find
reasons to justify what our bias or predilection or inclination implies us
to do. It is for this reason that we think it is unwise to entrust power in
any significant or sensitive area to a single individual, howsoever high or
important may be the office which he is occupying. There must be checks and
controls in the exercise of every power, particularly when it is a power to
make important and crucial appointments and it must be exercisable by
plurality of hands rather than be vested in a single individual. That is
perhaps the reason why the Constitution-makers introduced the requirement
in clause (2) of Article 124 that one or more Judges out of the Judges of
the Supreme Court and of the High Courts should be consulted in making
appointment of a Supreme Court Judge. But even with this provision, we do
not think that the safeguard is adequate because it is left to the Central
Government to select any one or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court and
of the High Courts for the purpose of consultation. We would rather suggest
that there must be a collegium to make recommendation to the President in
regard to appointment of a Supreme Court or High Court Judge. The
recommending authority should be more broad based and there should be
consultation with wider interests. If the collegium is composed of persons
who are expected to have knowledge of the persons who may be fit for
appointment on the Bench and of qualities required for appointment and this
last requirement is absolutely essential - it would go a long way towards
securing the right kind of Judges, who would be truly independent in the
sense we have indicated above and who would invest the judicial process
with significance and meaning for the deprived and exploited section of
humanity. We may point out that even countries like Australia and New
Zealand have veered round to the view that there should be a Judicial
Commission for appointment of the higher judiciary. As recently as July
1977 the Chief Justice of Australia publicly stated that the time had come
for such a commission to be appointed in Australia. So also in New Zealand,
the Royal Commission on the Court chaired by Mr. Justice Beattle, who has
now become the Governor-General of New Zealand, recommended that a Judicial
Commission should consider all judicial appointments including appointments
of High Court Judges. This is a matter which may well receive serious
attention of the Government of India.The position of an Additional Judge : 32. We then turn to consider what is the position of an additional Judge
under the Constitution. This question is of the greatest importance because
as against a total sanctioned strength of 308 permanent Judges, there is a
total sanctioned strength of as many as 97 additional Judges, which means
that the total sanctioned strength of Additional Judges is almost one-third
the total sanctioned strength of permanent Judges. There are a large number
of additional Judges in various High Courts whose tenure is short and
precarious and their fate should therefore naturally be a matter of serious
concern for this Court. The power to appoint an Additional Judge in a High
Court is to be found in clause (1) of Article 224 which reads as follows : 33. It is clear from the provisions of clause (1) of Article 224 that the
maximum period for which an Additional Judge can be appointed by the
President is two years. This provision for appointment of a Judge for a
period not exceeding two years seems to be peculiar to this country. There
is no such practice of appointing a Judge for a short term either in the
United Kingdom or in the United States of America. Even in India, there are
no Judges either in the Supreme Court or in the subordinate judiciary whose
tenure is so short. It is rather an unusual provision and in order to
understand its true scope and effect, it is necessary to trace briefly its
historical evolution. 34. There was no provision in the High Courts Act or the Charter Act, 1861
for appointment of an Additional Judge with a restricted tenure in a High
Court. It was for the first time in the Government of India Act, 1915 that
a provision was enacted for appointment of Additional Judges. Sub-section
(2) of Section 101 provided that each High Court shall consist of the Chief
Justice and as many other Judges as His Majesty may think fit to appoint
and clause (i) of the proviso to that sub-section authorised the Governor-
General-in-Council to appoint persons to act as additional Judges of any
High Court for such period not exceeding two years as may be required. The
additional Judges were to have all the powers of a Judge of the High Court
appointed by His Majesty. The Government of India Act, 1915 was replaced by
the Government of India Act, 1935 and Section 220 of that Act provided that
every High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and such other Judges as
His Majesty may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint and there
was a proviso to this section which said that the Judges so appointed
together with any Additional Judges appointed by the Governor-General shall
at no time exceed in number such maximum number as the Governor-General may
by order fix in relation to that Court. Section 222 , sub-section (3)
provided for appointment of Additional Judges in these terms : The system of appointment of Additional Judges was therefore in vogue when
the Constituent Assembly met to frame the Constitution. Article 199 of the
Draft Constitution was almost in the same terms as sub-section (3) of Section 222 of the Government of India Act, 1935. There was also Article
198 in the Draft Constitution which in clause (1) provided for appointment
of an acting Chief Justice and in clause (2) for appointment of an acting
Judge. The provision for appointment of an acting Judge made in clause (2)
of Article 198 was that when the office of any Judge of a High Court is
vacant or when any such Judge is appointed to act temporarily as a Chief
Justice or is unable to perform the duties of his office by reason of
absence or otherwise, the President may appoint a person duly qualified for
appointment as a Judge to act as a Judge of that Court. The acting Judge
contemplated by this clause of Article 198 was therefore clearly a
temporary Judge. Now when Articles 198 and 199 in the Draft Constitution
came to be considered in the Constituent Assembly, a number of
representations were received suggesting that both these articles should be
deleted from the Constitution. It was felt by many that the practice of
appointing acting or Additional Judges was pernicious and it should be done
away with. Tej Bahadur Sapru expressed his firm opposition to this practice
of appointing acting or Additional Judges in the course of his speech in
the Constituent Assembly. He said, decrying this practice in no uncertain
terms :Additional Judges, under the old Constitution were appointed by the
Governor-General for a period not exceeding two years. I do not know
whether that condition has been reproduced in the proposed Constitution.
This prohibition, however, does not apply to acting Judges or temporary
Judges. I think the rule in future should be that any barrister or
advocate, who accepts a seat on the Bench, shall be prohibited from
resuming practice anywhere on retirement. I would not, however, apply this
to temporary Judges taken from the services who hold a seat on the Bench
for a few months, but I would add that the practice of appointing
additional and temporary Judges should be definitely given up. When I said
at the Round Table Conference that there were acting, Additional and
temporary Judges in India, some of the English lawyers not accustomed to
Indian law felt rather surprised. I am also of the opinion that temporary
or acting Judges do greater harm than permanent Judges, when after their
seat on the Bench for a short period they revert to the Bar. A seat on the
Bench gives them a pre-eminence over their colleagues and embarrasses the
subordinate Judges who were at one time under their control and thus
instead of their helping justice they act as a hindrance to free justice. I
have a very strong feeling in this matter and have during my long
experience seen the evil effects of unchecked resumption of practice by
barristers and advocates. There were also many others who expressed the same view. The Drafting
Committee agreed with this view and expressed the opinion that "it would be
better to delete Articles 198 and 199 relating to the appointment of
temporary and Additional Judges, than to retain those articles without the
ban on practice by persons who hold office as Additional or temporary
Judges."The Drafting Committee took the view that" it was possible to
discontinue the system of appointment of temporary and Additional Judges in
the High Courts altogether by increasing, if necessary, the total number of
permanent Judges of such Courts." The Constituent Assembly adopted the
recommendation of the Drafting Committee to delete Articles 198(2) and 199 of the Draft Constitution providing for appointment of acting and
Additional Judges in High Courts, with the result that when the
Constitution came to be enacted, there was no provision in the Constitution
for appointment of acting or Additional Judges. 35. It is clear from the discussions which took place in the Constituent
Assembly that the Constitution-makers realised that an acting or Additional
Judge would have to go back to the Bar on the expiration of his term of
office and his tenure was of a strictly limited duration. The Constitution-
makers did not oppose the practice of appointing acting or Additional Judge
on the ground that on the expiration of his term of office, an acting or
Additional Judge would have to go back to the Bar, but their anxiety was
that after going back to the Bar he would resume his practice and this
might lead to abuses and it was this undesirable consequence which they
wanted to prevent and that is why they deleted Articles 198(2) and 199 with
a view to abolishing the practice of appointing acting or Additional
Judges. The underlying postulate of Articles 198(2) and 199 was that an
acting or Additional Judges would come back to the Bar on the expiration of
his term and start practice and this was intended to be stopped, but since
it was not possible to debar an acting or Additional Judge from practising
after he came back on the expiration of term, it was decided that the
institution of acting and Additional Judges should be done away with. There
was no assumption by the Constitution-makers that an acting or Additional
Judge would necessarily be made permanent and he would not have to go back
to the Bar. On the contrary, going back to the Bar was clearly contemplated
and hence Article 198(2) and 199 were deleted. The Constitution-makers also
thought that it would be possible to discontinue the system of appointing
acting and Additional Judges altogether without any detriment to early
disposal of cases, if the total number of permanent Judges was sufficiently
increased. 36. But within six years of the coming into force of the Constitution it
was found that the arrears in the High Courts were increasing and it was
becoming difficult to bring them under control. There was Article 224 in
the Constitution which provided that the Chief Justice of a High Court may
at any time with the previous consent of the President request any retired
Judge to sit and act as a Judge of the High Court, but this provision for
recalling retired Judges to function on the Bench of a High Court for short
periods was found to be neither adequate nor satisfactory and it was of no
assistance in reducing the arrears of cases which were mounting up from
year to year. Parliament in its constituent capacity, therefore, decided to
introduce two provisions; one for appointment of Additional Judges to clear
off the arrears and the other for the appointment of acting Judges in
temporary vacancies and with that end in view, enacted the Constitution
(Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 . This amending Act substituted the existing Article 224 by a new Article 224 which read as follows :Appointment of
Additional and acting Judges. - (1) If by reason of any temporary increase
in the business of a High Court or by reason of arrears of work therein, it
appears to the President that the number of the judges of that Court should
be for the time being increased, the President may appoint duly qualified
persons to be Additional Judges of the Court for such period not exceeding
two years as he may specify. (2) When any judge of a High Court other than the Chief Justice is by
reason of absence or for any other reason unable to perform the duties of
his office or is appointed to act temporarily as Chief Justice, the
President may appoint a duly qualified person to act as a Judge of that
Court until the permanent Judge has resumed his duties. (3) No person appointed as an Additional or acting Judge of a High Court
shall hold office after attaining the age of sixty-two years. The existing Article 224 was added as new Article 224-A after the new Article 224. Clause (1) of Article 217 was also simultaneously amended with
a view to making provision in regard to an acting or Additional Judge. We
have already set out the amended clause (1) of Article 217 in an earlier
part of the Judgment and we need not, therefore, reproduce it here once
again. 37. The first question which arises for determination under Article 224 ,
clause (1) is as to when can an Additional Judge be appointed by the
President. This article confers power on the President to appoint an
Additional Judge, if by reason of any temporary increase in the business of
a High Court or by reason of arrears of work therein, it appears to the
President that the number of the judges of that Court should be for the
time being increased and in that event, he can appoint an Additional Judge
for such period not exceeding two years as he may specify. It must appear
to the President that either by reason of temporary increase in the
business of the High Court or by reason of accumulation of arrears of work
in the High Court, it is necessary to increase the number of the Judges of
that Court for the time being. The power to appoint an Additional Judge
cannot therefore be exercised by the President unless there is either
temporary increase in the business of the High Court or there is
accumulation of arrears of work in the High Court and even when one of
these two conditions exists, it is necessary that the President must be
further satisfied that it is necessary to make a temporary increase in the
number of Judges of that High Court. The words "for the time being" clearly
indicate that the increase in the number of judges which the President may
make by appointing Additional Judges would be temporary with a view to
dealing with the temporary increase in the business of the High Court or
the arrears of work in the High Court. Article 224 , clause (1) did not
contemplate that the increase in the number of Judges should be for an
indefinite duration. The object clearly was that Additional Judge should be
appointed for a short period in order to dispose of the temporary increase
in the business of the High Court and/or to clear off the arrears of
pending cases. There is sufficient indication in clause (1) of Article 224 that the appointments of Additional Judges were intended to be of short
duration and Parliament expected that sufficient number of Additional
Judges would be appointed so as dispose of the temporary increase in the
work or the arrears of pending cases within a period of two years or
thereabouts. That is why clause (1) of Article 224 provided that Additional
Judges may be appointed for a period not exceeding two years. The
underlying idea was that there should be an adequate strength of permanent
Judges in each High Court to deal with its normal institutions and so far
as the temporary increase in the work or the arrears of pending cases were
concerned, Additional Judges appointed for a period not exceeding two years
should assist in disposing of such work. This was the reason why the Law
Commission in its Fourteenth Report stated in paragraphs 54 and 57 of
Chapter 6 in Volume 1 : This position accordingly necessitates a thorough revision of existing
ideas regarding the number of judges required for each High Court. The
strength of some of the High Courts has been increased from time to time.
In doing this, however, the post-constitutional developments which have
thrown a much heavier burden on the High Courts have, in our view, not been
adequately taken into account. To expect the existing number of judges in
the various High Courts to deal efficiently with the vastly increased
volume of work is, in our opinion, to ask them to attempt the impossible.
As pointed out to us by a senior counsel, if there is a congestion on the
roads due to an increase in traffic, the remedy is not to blame the traffic
but to widen the roads. The first essential therefore, is to see that the strength of every High
Court is maintained at a level so as to be adequate to dispose of what may
be called its normal institutions. The normal strength of a High Court must
be fixed on the basis of the average annual institutions of all types of
proceedings in a particular High Court during the last three years. This is
essential in order to prevent what may be termed the current file of the
Court falling into arrears and adding to the pile of old cases. The problem
of clearing the arrears can be satisfactorily dealt with only after the
normal strength of each Court has been brought up to the level required to
cope with its normal institutions. We suggest that the required strength of
the High Court of each State should be fixed in consultation with the Chief
Justice of that State and the Chief Justice of India and the strength so
fixed should be reviewed at an interval of two or three years. Such a
review will be necessary not only by reason of changing conditions but
because the implementation of our recommendations made elsewhere will lead
to a quicker disposal of work in the subordinate courts which, in its turn,
will result in an increase in the work of the High Courts. 57. We are of the view that the provisions of Article 224 of the
Constitution should be availed of and Additional Judges be appointed for
the specific purpose of dealing with these arrears. The number of such
Additional Judges required for each High Court for the purpose of dealing
with the arrears will have to be fixed in consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the State High Court after taking
into consideration the arrears in the particular court, their nature and
the average disposal of that Court. The number of Additional Judges to be
fixed for this purpose should be such as to enable the arrears to be
cleared within a period of two years. The Additional Judges so appointed
should, in our view, be utilised as far as possible exclusively for the
purpose of disposing of arrears and not be diverted to the disposal of
current work. Pari passu with the disposal of the arrears, the permanent
strength of the High Court will have to be brought up to and maintained at
the required level, care being taken to see that their normal disposal
keeps pace with the new institutions and that they are not allowed to
develop into arrears. The appointment of Additional Judges for the
exclusive purpose of dealing with the arrears is, in our view, called for
in a large number of High Courts. The sentence underlined (herein italicised) by us in paragraph 57 clearly
shows that according to the Law Commission also the intendment of clause
(1) of Article 224 was that sufficient number of Additional Judges would be
appointed "so as to enable the arrears to be cleared off within a period of
two years." The same note was struck by P. N. Sapru when he said in the
course of the Debates in Rajya Sabha during the discussion of the
Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Bill : "It is necessary to have Additional
Judges for the disposal of arrears. These arrears, I hope, represent a
temporary situation.... Once these arrears have been cleared off, it will
be possible for us to fix or to determine the permanent strength of our
Courts with some degree of assurance." It would thus seem that on a true
interpretation of clause (1) of Article 224 it was never intended that
Additional Judges should go on being appointed and reappointed term after
term. Now it is obvious that if Additional Judges were appointed according
to the true intendment of clause (1) of Article 224 , they would be
temporary Judges appointed for a short duration to clear off the arrears
and once the arrears are cleared off, which was expected by Parliament to
be achieved within not more than two years they would, on the expiration of
their term, go back to the Bar or to the District Judicial Service. Their
tenure being for a short period limited by the time expected to be taken in
clearing off the arrears - such time, in any event, being hopefully not
more than two years - they would know that, on the expiration of their
term, they would have to go back. They would have no right to be appointed
or even to be considered for appointment as permanent Judges, because when
they accepted appointment as Additional Judges under clause (1) of Article
224 , they would have known that they were appointed only as temporary
Judges for a short period in order to clear off the arrears. 38. But what happened in practice was that the true intendment and purpose
of clause (1) of Article 224 was never carried into effect. The Government
did not increase the strength of permanent Judges in different High Courts
adequately so as to be able to cope with the normal institutions. Though
the Law Commission has recommended in its Fourteenth Report that the normal
strength of a High Court must be fixed on the basis of average annual
institution of all types of proceedings in the High Court during the last
three years, this recommendation was not heeded with the result that even
the current institutions in many of the High Courts could not be disposed
of any the inadequate number of permanent Judges and they started adding to
the existing arrears. Of course, it was not only the Government which was
responsible for not increasing adequately the strength of permanent Judges
but the Chief Justices of many High Courts were also remiss in looking
after the interests of their High Courts, inasmuch they too did not ask the
Government for increase in the strength of permanent Judges. Wherever the
fault may lie and it is not necessary for the purpose of these writ
petitions to fix the blame, the consequence was that the arrears in the
High Courts started growing menacingly from year to year. The requisite
number of Additional Judges was also not appointed by the Government though
clause (1) of Article 224 clearly contemplated that sufficient number of
Additional Judges would be appointed in order to clear off the arrear
within a period of about two years. The old arrears therefore continued to
exist and new arrears were added out of the current file of cases which
remained undisposed of by the existing strength of Judges. The strength of
Additional Judges was not fixed realistically and a much lesser number of
Additional Judges than required for the purpose of clearing off the arrears
within a period of about two years were appointed in the different High
Courts from time to time with the result that the arrears continued to
increase and the need for Additional Judges continued to subsist. The
unfortunate consequence was that the Additional Judgeship became a gateway
for entering the cadre of permanent Judges. Whenever a person was appointed
as a Judge in a High Court, he would be first appointed as an Additional
Judge and only when a vacancy occurred in the post of a permanent Judge, he
would be confirmed as a permanent Judge in that vacancy in accordance with
the seniority amongst the Additional Judges. The practice therefore grew up
of a person being first appointed as an Additional Judge and then being
confirmed as a permanent Judge in the same High Court. The Union of India
at the instance of the petitioners filed before us a statement showing that
in almost all cases barring a negligible few, every person was appointed
first as an Additional Judge in the High Court and then confirmed as a
permanent Judge in the same High Court as soon as a vacancy in the post of
a permanent Judge became available to him. The entire object and purpose of
the introduction of clause (1) of Article 224 was perverted and Additional
Judges were appointed under this article not as temporary Judges for a
short period who would go back on the expiration of their term as soon as
the arrears are cleared off, but as Judges whose tenure, though limited to
a period not exceeding two years at the time of each appointment as an
Additional Judges, would be renewed from time to time until a berth was
found for them in the cadre of permanent Judges. By and large, every person
entered the High Court judiciary as an Additional Judge in the clear
expectation that as soon as a vacancy in the post of a permanent Judge
became available to him in the High Court he would confirmed as a permanent
Judge and if no such vacancy became available to him until the expiration
of his term of office, he would be reappointed as an Additional Judge for a
further term in the same High Court. Therefore, far from being aware that
on the expiration of their term, they would have to go back because they
were appointed only as temporary Judges for a short period in order to
clear off the arrears - which would have been the position if clause (1) of Article 224 had been implemented according to its true intendment and
purpose - the Additional Judges entered the High Court judiciary with a
legitimate expectation that they would not have to go back on the
expiration of their term but they would be either reappointed as Additional
Judges for a further term or if in the meanwhile, a vacancy in the post of
a permanent Judge became available, they would be confirmed as permanent
Judges. This expectation which was generated in the minds of Additional
Judges by reason of the peculiar manner in which clause (1) of Article 224 was operated, cannot now be ignored by the Government and the Government
cannot be permitted to say that when the term of an Additional Judge
expires, the Government can drop him at its sweet will. By reason of the
expectation raised in his mind through a practice followed for almost over
a quarter of a century, an Additional Judge is entitled to be considered
for appointment as an Additional Judge for a further term on the expiration
of his original term and if in the meanwhile, a vacancy in the post of a
permanent Judge becomes available to him on the basis of seniority amongst
Additional Judges, he has a right to be considered for appointment as a
permanent Judge in his High Court. 39. It is clear on a plain reading of Article 217 , clause (1) that when an
Additional Judge is to be appointed, the procedure set out in that article
is to be followed. Clause (1) of Article 217 provides that "Every Judge" of
a High Court shall be appointed after consultation with the Chief Justice
of India, the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High
Court. The expression "Every Judge" must on a plain natural construction
include not only a permanent Judge but also an Additional Judge. It is
significant to note that whenever the Constitution-makers intended to make
a reference to a permanent Judge, they did so in clear and explicit terms
as in clause (2) of Article 224. Moreover, there is inherent evidence in Article 217 , clause (1) itself which shows that the expression "Every
Judge" is intended to take in an Additional Judge as well. Clause (1) of Article 217 says that : "Every Judge..... shall hold office, in the case of
an Additional Judge..... as provided in Article 224......" , which clearly
suggests that the case of an Additional Judge is covered by the opening
words "Every Judge". We may also consider what would be the consequence of
construing the words "Every Judge" as meaning only a permanent Judge. On
that construction, clause (1) of Article 217 will not apply in relation to
appointment of an Additional Judge and it would be open to the Central
Government under Article 224 , clause (1) to appoint an Additional Judge
without consulting any of the constitutional functionaries specified in
clause (1) of Article 217. This could never have been intended by the
Constitution-makers, who made such elaborate provisions in the Constitution
for safeguarding the independence of the judiciary. We must therefore, hold
that no Additional Judge can be appointed without complying with the
requirement of clause (1) of Article 217. 40. Now, when the term of an Additional Judge expires he ceases to be a
Judge and therefore, if he is to continue as a Judge, he must be either
reappointed as an Additional Judge or appointed as a permanent Judge. In
either case, clause (1) of Article 217 would operate and no reappointment
as an Additional Judge or appointment as a permanent Judge can be made
without going through the procedure set out in Article 217 , clause (1). Of
course, an Additional Judge has a right to be considered for such
reappointment or appointment, as the case may be, and the Central
Government cannot be heard to say that the Additional Judge need not be
considered. The Additional Judge cannot just be dropped without
consideration. The name of the Additional Judge would have to go through
the procedure of clause (1) of Article 217 and after consultation with the
Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of
the High Court, the Central Government would have to decide whether or not
to reappoint him as an Additional Judge or to appoint him as a permanent
Judge. If the procedure for appointment of a Judge followed as a result of
a practice memorandum issued by the Central Government is that the proposal
for appointment of a Judge may ordinarily originate from the Chief Justice
of the High Court and may then be sent to the Governor of the State and
thereafter to the Chief Justice of India through the Justice Ministry for
their respective opinions before a decision can be taken by the Central
Government whether or not to appoint the person proposed the name of the
Additional Judge must be sent up by the Chief Justice of the High Court
with his recommendation whether he should be reappointed as an Additional
Judge or appointed as a permanent Judge or not and it must go up to the
Central Government with the opinions of the Chief Justice of India, the
Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High Court, so that the
Central Government may, after considering such opinions, make-up its mind
on the question of reappointment or appointment as the case may be. But
this is the only right possessed by the Additional Judge. The Additional
Judge is not entitled to contend that he must automatically and without any
further consideration be appointed as an Additional Judge for a further
term or as a permanent Judge. He has to go through the process of clause
(1) of Article 217 and to concede to him the right to be appointed either
as an Additional Judge for a further term or as a permanent Judge would be
to fly in the face of Article 217 , clause (1). If the Additional Judge is
entitled to be appointed without anything more, why should the process of
consultation be gone through in regard to his appointment ? Would
consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and
the Chief Justice of the High Court not be reduced to a farce ? It would be
a mockery of consultation with such high constitutional dignitaries. There
can, therefore, be no doubt that an Additional Judge is not entitled as a
matter of right to be appointed as an Additional Judge for a further term
on the expiration of his original term or as a permanent Judge. The only
right he has is to be considered for such appointment and this right also
belongs to him not because clause (1) of Article 224 confers such right
upon him, but because of the peculiar manner in which clause (1) of Article
224 has been operated all these years. 41. But the question then arises what are the factors which can
legitimately be taken into account by the Central Government in deciding
whether or not to reappoint an Additional Judge for a further term or to
appoint him as a permanent Judge. The argument of the petitioners was that
an Additional Judge is not on probation. He is as much a Judge as a
permanent Judge with the same jurisdiction and the same powers and to treat
him as if he were on probation would not only detract from his status and
dignity but also affect his independence by making his continuance as a
Judge dependent on the good opinion of the Chief Justice of the High Court,
the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of India. We find it
difficult to accept this argument in the face of the clear and unambiguous
language of clause (1) of Article 217. There are no limitations in the
language of clause (1) of Article 217 as to what factors shall be
considered and what factors shall not be, but having regard to the object
and purpose of that provision namely, appointment of a High Court Judge, it
is obvious that fitness and suitability, physical, intellectual and moral,
would be the governing considerations to be taken into account in deciding
the question of appointment. Now, when on the expiration of the term of an
Additional Judge, the Central Government is again called upon to consider
whether or not he should be reappointed as an Additional Judge or appointed
as a permanent Judge, the Central Government would have to apply its mind
to the question whether such Additional Judge possesses the requisite
fitness and suitability for being reappointed or appointed as the case may
be. Public interest requires that only such person should be appointed as a
Judge who is physically, intellectually and morally fit and suitable to be
appointed as a Judge and it would be contrary to public weal to appoint a
person, who does not posses the requisite fitness and suitability. The
Central Government would therefore be under a constitutional obligation to
consider whether the Additional Judge, whose term has expired, is fit and
suitable to be reappointed as an Additional Judge or appointed as a
permanent Judge. How can clause (1) of Article 217 or Article 224 be so
interpreted as to require the Central Government to reappoint an Additional
Judge for a further term or to appoint him as permanent Judge, even if at
the time of such reappointment or appointment as the case may be, he is
physically, intellectually or morally unfit or unsuitable to be appointed
as a Judge. Of course, at the time when the question of reappointment of an
Additional Judge for a further term or his appointment as a permanent Judge
comes up before the Central Government for consideration, the Additional
Judge would have two weighty circumstances in his favour : one, that he has
experience as a Judge for one term and the other, that it would not be
desirable to send an Additional Judge back to the Bar. But even with these
weighty circumstances in his favour, he would have to satisfy the test of
fitness and suitability, physical, intellectual and moral, before the
Central Government can, consistently with its constitutional obligation and
in public interest, decide to reappointment him as an Additional Judge or
appoint him as a permanent Judge. It is true that the fitness and
suitability of the Additional Judge must have been considered by the
Central Government at the time of his original appointment, but when the
question again comes up for consideration on the expiration of his term,
the Central Government has to consider afresh, in the light of the material
then available, save and except material which was already with the Central
Government at the time of the original appointment, as to whether he
possesses the requisite fitness and suitability for being appointed as a
Judge. It would not be right to say that merely because the fitness and
suitability of the Additional Judge is required to be considered again for
the purpose of dealing whether he should be reappointed for a further term
or appointed as a permanent Judge, it would amount to treating him as if he
were on probation. An additional Judge is certainly not on probation in the
sense that his service cannot be terminated before the expiration of his
term, unlike a probationer who can be sent out at any time during the
period of probation. It would also not be open to the Chief Justice of the
High Court or the Governor of the State or the Chief Justice of India to
sit in judgment over the quality of the work turned out by the Additional
Judge during his term, because that would be essentially an appellate
functions which can be discharged only by the court entitled to hear
appeals from the decisions of the Additional Judge. But every other
consideration which bears on the physical, intellectual and moral fitness
and suitability of the Additional Judge based on material other than that
which was with the Central Government at the time of the original
appointment can and must be considered and if the Central Government finds,
after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor
of the State and the Chief Justice of India that the Additional Judge is
not fit and suitable for being appointed as a Judge, the Central Government
may decide not to appoint him as an Additional Judge for a further term or
as a permanent Judge. So long as the case of the Additional Judge is
considered by the Central Government for reappointment or appointment as
the case may be, the decision of the Central Government cannot be
questioned except on the ground that it was reached without full and
effective consultations with the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of India or that it was based
on irrelevant considerations. Where such a challenge is made, the burden is
on the Central Government to show that there was full and effective
consultation and the decision was based on relevant considerations. In
fact, where an Additional Judge is not appointed as an Additional Judge for
a further term or as a permanent Judge despite the unanimous opinion of the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India, the
decision of the Central Government would prima facie be liable to attack
and the burden would lie heavy on the Central Government to show that it
had cogent, reasons to disagree with the Chief Justice of the High Court
and the Chief Justice of India. 42. There was also one other argument advanced by the learned Attorney-
General and it was that where an Additional Judge is not appointed for a
further term or as a permanent Judge, he cannot challenge the decision of
the Central Government not to appoint him, because clause (1) of Article
217 prescribes the procedure to be followed only where an appointment is
made and it has no application where an appointment is not made. This
argument is, in our opinion, without force and must be rejected. An
Additional Judge, as we have pointed out, has a right to be considered for
appointment as an Additional Judge for a further term or in case there is a
vacancy in a permanent post, then for appointment as a permanent Judge, and
he must therefore, be considered by the Government for such reappointment
or appointment as the case may be, and a decision must be taken in regard
to him after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of Justice of India, and if it
is found that there was no consultation with any of these three
constitutional functionaries before the decision was taken by the Central
Government not to appoint him or the decision of the Central Government is
based on irrelevant grounds, it would not be consideration by the Central
Government as required by clause (1) of Article 217 and he would,
therefore, be entitled to challenge the decision of the Central Government
which is based on what may be called 'non-consideration in law' and to
require the Central Government to reconsider his case in accordance with
clause (1) of Article 217. This consequence would follow only because an
Additional Judge has a right to be considered for appointment as an
Additional Judge for a further term or as a permanent Judge. No person, who
is proposed for initial appointment as a Judge would be entitled to
complain against the decision of the Central Government not to appoint him,
because he would have no right to be considered for appointment as a Judge. 43. We must also deal with the argument of the petitioners that so long as
there is a post of a permanent Judge vacant, no appointment of an
Additional Judge can be made under clause (1) of Article 224. It is clear
from the language of clause (1) of Article 224 that it is only where
permanent Judges of a High Court are unable to cope with the current
institutions and the increased business or the arrears of pending cases and
it is found necessary for the purpose of disposing of the increased
business or the arrears of pending cases to increase the strength of the
Judges of the High Court for the time being that Additional Judges can be
appointed. Clause (1) of Article 224 contemplates appointment of Additional
Judges to augment the strength of the existing Judges. It must therefore
follow logically that there must be full strength of existing Judges before
Additional Judges can be appointed and so long as any post of existing
Judges is not filled up, there can be no question of appointing Additional
Judges to augment their strength. When there is a vacancy in the post of a
permanent Judge, it must first be filled up before any Additional Judge can
be appointed under clause (1) of Article 224. It is therefore, necessary
that the Central Government must periodically review the strength of
permanent Judges in each High Court, so that there is a proper and adequate
strength for the purpose of dealing with the normal institutions. Since
there are large arrears pending almost in every High Court and it is not
humanly possible to dispose of these arrears within a measurable distance
of time even by appointment of Additional Judges, we think it necessary
that instead of appointing Additional Judges for the purpose of disposing
of the arrears, it would be desirable to increase the strength of permanent
Judges because the arrears have come to stay and we do not think it is
possible to wipe them out for a long period of time. We are glad that
towards the close of the arguments Mr. Mridul submitted to us a statement
on behalf of the Central Government assuring us that :The Union Government
has decided to increase the number of posts of permanent Judges in the
various High Courts keeping in view the load of work, the guide-lines
prescribed and other relevant considerations. In fact in 1980 itself, on
the basis of institution, disposal and arrears of cases and the guide-lines
prescribed, the Governments of seven States where the problem was more
acute, had been addressed to consider augmentation of the judge-strengths
of their High Courts. It has been decided that where necessary the guide-
lines prescribed will be suitably relaxed by taking into account local
circumstances, the trend of litigation and any other special or relevant
factors that may need consideration. The Union Government will take up the
matter with the various State Governments so that after consulting the
Chief Justices of the High Courts, they expeditiously send proposals for
the conversion of a substantial number of posts of Additional Judges into
those of permanent Judges. We hope and trust that the Central Government will soon take the necessary
steps to increase realistically the strength of permanent Judges in each
High Court. 44. One last argument now remains, when an Additional Judge is appointed,
what should be the term for which his appointment is made. Clause (1) of Article 224 provides that an Additional Judge may be appointed for a period
not exceeding two years. That is the outside limit prescribed by Article
224 , clause (1) and it was therefore, contended by the learned Attorney-
General that appointment of an Additional Judge can be made for any term,
howsoever short it be, so long as it does not exceed two years. The
appointments of O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad for three months and
the appointments of some other Additional Judges for six months were thus
defended by the learned Attorney-General as being within the scope and
ambit of clause (1) of Article 224. We cannot accept this argument. It is
no doubt true that clause (1) of Article fixes the outer limit for the term
for which an Additional Judge may be appointed, but that has been done
because there may be cases where the temporary increase in the business or
the arrears of pending cases are so small that it may be possible to
dispose them of by appointing Additional Judges for a term less than two
years. If the temporary increase in the business or the arrears of pending
cases can be disposed of within a shorter time, why should Additional
Judges be appointed for the full period of two years. That is why
Parliament provided that an Additional Judge may be appointed for a term
not exceeding two years. But when arrears of pending cases are so large
that it would not be possible to dispose them of even within a period of
ten years - and when we say ten years, we are making a very conservative
estimate - what justification there can be for appointing Additional Judges
for a period of less than two years. That would be plainly outside the
scope of the power conferred under clause (1) of Article 224. When the
arrears of pending cases are such that they cannot possibly be disposed of
within a period of less than two years, Additional Judges must be appointed
for a term of two years and no less. Mr. Mridul informed us towards the
close of the arguments that the Union Government had decided that
ordinarily further appointment of Additional Judge will not be made for a
period of less than one year, but we cannot regard this statement as being
fully in compliance with the constitutional requirement. The term for which
an Additional Judge is appointed must not be less than two years, unless
the temporary increase in business or the arrears of pending cases are so
small that they can reasonably be disposed of within a shorter period,
which, of course, today is only an idle dream in most of the High Courts.
We may also point out that an Additional Judge cannot be appointed for a
period of three months or six months in order to enable the Chief Justice
of India or the Central Government to consider whether the Additional Judge
should be appointed for a further term or as a permanent Judge. That is a
matter on which the Chief Justice of India must come to his opinion well in
time and the Government of India must also reach its decision sufficiently
in advance so that the Additional Judge would know quite some time before
his term is due to expire whether he is going to be appointed for a further
term or is going to be discontinued. There is no power in the Central
Government to appoint an Additional Judge for a short term in order to
enable either the Chief Justice of India or the Central Government to make
enquiries with a view to satisfying itself whether the Additional Judge is
fit and suitable for being appointed as an Additional Judge or as a
permanent Judge. We are, therefore, of the view that the Chief Justice of
India acted under a misconception of the true constitutional position when
he recommended the appointment of O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad
for a period of six months and the Central Government was also in error in
appointing them only for a period of three months.Circular Letter of the
Law Minister 45. We must then turn to consider the question whether the circular letter
issued by the Law Minister was unconstitutional and void. Now obviously the
circular letter could be assailed as unconstitutional and void only if it
could be shown to be in violation of some constitutional or legal
provision. There was admittedly no provision of law, at least none could be
pointed out by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners,
which could be said to have been infringed by the issuance of the circular
letter, but the argument was that the circular letter offended against the
provisions of clause (1) of Article 217 and clause (1) of Article 222. We
shall presently examine this argument but before we do so, it would be
worthwhile first to analyse the terms of the circular letter in order to
determine what is it that the circular letter seeks to achieve which is
constitutionally objectionable or impermissible. The learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the petitioners contended that the circular letter
must be construed objectively with reference to the language used in that
letter and no extrinsic aid, such as a statement subsequently made by the
Law Minister in the Lok Sabha, should be invoked for the purpose of
arriving at its true interpretation. The decision of this Court in Commissioner of Police v. Gordhandas Bhanji , was referred to in this connection and strong
reliance was placed on the following observations made by this Court,
namely, "Public orders made by public authorities are meant to have public
effect and are intended to affect the actions and conduct of those to whom
they are addressed and must be construed objectively with reference to the
language used in the order itself." This principle of interpretation is
indisputably a valid principle and no exception can be taken against it,
but we do not think it can have any application in the present case,
because the circular letter addressed by the Law Minister is not in the
nature of a public order made by a public authority. The Law Minister is
undoubtedly a member of the Cabinet and it is reasonable to assume that in
issuing the circular letter he was acting on behalf of the Central
Government but the circular letter does not appear to have been issued by
the Law Minister in the exercise of any constitutional or legal power. The
circular letter has no constitutional or legal sanction behind it and non-
compliance with the request contained in it would not proprio vigore entail
any adverse consequence to the Additional Judge or to the person
recommended for initial appointment, for not complying with such request.
It may be that because an Additional Judge does not give his consent to be
appointed as a permanent Judge in his own High Court and may not be
appointed as a permanent Judge in his own High Court and may be
discontinued as an Additional Judge on the expiration of his term, though
this is not within the intendment of the circular letter and is clearly
impermissible, but in that event it would be his non-appointment as a
permanent Judge or discontinuance as an Additional Judge which would, if at
all, give him a cause of action and not the circular letter asking for such
consent. The circular letter is a document without any legal force and does
not by itself of its own force, create or alter any legal relationship or
arrangement or produce any legal consequence or effect. It is no more than
a letter addressed to the Chief Minister of each State asking him to obtain
the consent of the Additional Judges as also of those recommended or to be
recommended for initial appointment, for being appointed as Judges in a
High Court outside the State. It would therefore seem that the principle of
interpretation enunciated by this Court in Gordhandas Bhanji case cannot apply in the
construction of the circular letter. We must construe the circular letter
from a common-sense point of view having regard to the clarification, if
any, given by the author of the circular letter, namely, the Law Minister. 46. The circular letter has been reproduced by us in extenso in an earlier
part of the judgment while stating the facts giving rise to the writ
petitions. The first paragraph of the circular letter begins by saying that
it has repeatedly been suggested to the Government over the years "by
several bodies and forums including the States Reorganisation Commission,
the Law Commission and various Bar Associations that to further national
integration and to combat narrow parochial tendencies bred by caste,
kinship and other local links and affiliations, one-third of the Judges of
a High Court should as far as possible be form outside the State in which
that High Court is situated." The learned counsel appearing on behalf of
the petitioners criticised this statement by observing that since the names
of the "several bodies and forums" referred to in this statement were not
specifically mentioned, it was not possible to deal with their credentials
or to examine the validity of the reasons on which their conclusion was
based. But Mr. Mridul appearing on behalf of the Law Minister convincingly
dealt with this criticism and referred in detail to various bodies and
forums which had from time to time expressed the view that one-third of the
Judges of every High Court should as far as possible be from outside the
State in which that High Court is situated. The earliest point of time when
this view was expressed by a high powered body was in the year 1955, when
the States Reorganisation Commission in its report recommended that "at
least one-third of the number of Judges in the High Court of a State should
consist of persons who are recruited from outside that State"and this
recommendation was guided by the consideration that" the principal organs
of State should be so constituted as to inspire confidence and to help in
arresting parochial trends" . Then the Law Commission in its Fourteenth
Report presented in 1958 expressed the same view : "The recent creation of
various zones in the country and the efforts to treat the States forming
part of these zones as one unit for various purposes would, we hope, lead
to the States forming part of each zone to be the recruiting ground for
appointments to the High Court from the members of the Bar in these State.
It is hoped that in this manner the expectation of the States
Reorganisation Commission that at least one-third of the High Court Judges
would be persons drawn from outside the State will be fulfilled." There was
also a discussion on this proposal, namely, whether one-third of the number
of Judges in each High Court should be from outside the State, at the Chief
Justices' Conference held in March 1965 and out of 15 Chief Justices of
High Courts who attended the Conference, 8 were against the proposal, 6
were in favour and the remaining Chief Justice also supported the proposal,
but with this qualification that the one-third number of Judges should be
worked out by initial appointment. Chief Justice K. Subba Rao also in his
letter dated October 6, 1966, expressed the view that it would be better to
bring Judges from outside at the time of initial appointment. Then came the
Report of the Study Team of the Administrative Reforms commission submitted
in 1967 and this Report also examined the question of appointment of Judges
in High Courts and came to the view that the recommendation of the States
Reorganisation Commission should be implemented so that as for as possible
one-third of the number of Judges in a High Court are from outside. The
Study Team observed that a serious effort to implement this recommendation
"will make its own contribution to efficiency, independence and national
integration." The same question once again came up for consideration before
the Law Commission in the year 1978 and the Law Commission sent out a
questionnaire to various individuals and associations for the purpose of
eliciting their views inter alia in regard to the suggestion that there
should be a convention according to which one-third of the Judges in each
High Court should be from another State. Mr. S. V. Gupte, who was then
Attorney-General of India and who is known for bold and courageous
expression of his views, stated in answer to the questionnaire that he was
wholly in favour of having one-third the number of Judges in each High
Court from outside the State "as that alone may perhaps secure some kind of
freedom from bias on grounds of caste and class consideration or any close
association with local people." The Bar Council of India also in its reply
to the questionnaire supported the proposal of one-third Judges in a High
Court being from outside the State. It is interesting to note - and this
completely establishes the bona fides of the Law Ministers in issuing the
circular letter - that even as far back as February 26, 1979, when the
political party to which the Law Minister belongs was not in power, the Law
Minister stated clearly and unequivocally that he agreed with the view
expressed by the Law Commission that one-third of the Judges in each High
Court must be from outside the State, because this would achieve better
national integration in the field of judiciary. Whilst expressing this
view, it is significant to note that the Law Minister made it clear that he
would not support transfer of a High Court Judge "if it is based on
extraneous considerations". Then followed the Eightieth Report of the Law
Commission presided over by Mr. Justice H. R. Khanna. This Report was
submitted to the Government of India in August 1979 and in this Report, the
Law Commission expressed its agreement with the recommendation made by the
earlier Law Commission in its Fourteenth Report, namely, that "there should
be a convention according to which one-third of the Judges in each High
Court should be from another State" and added that this should normally be
done through the process of initial appointments and not by transfers. The
Law Commission gave the following reasons for taking this view :Evolving
such a convention would, in our opinion, not only help in the process of
national integration but would also improve the functioning of various High
Courts. It would secure on the Bench of each High Court the presence of a
number of judges who would not be swayed by local considerations or
affected by issues which may rouse local passing and emotions. As observed
by us in one of our earlier reports, one of the essential things for the
due administration of justice is not only the capacity of the judges to
bring a dispassionate approach to cases handled by them, but also to
inspire a feeling in all concerned that dispassionate approach would
underlie their decision, quite, often, cases which arouse strong emotional
sentiments and regional feelings come up before courts of law. To handle
such cases, we need judges who not only remain unaffected by local
sentiments and regional feelings, but also appear to be so. None would be
better suited for this purpose than judges hailing from other States. It is
a common feeling amongst old lawyers that apart from cases with political
overtones, the English judges showed a sense of great fairness and brought
a dispassionate approach in the disposal of judicial cases handled by them.
We in India are in the fortunate position of having a vast country. There
can, therefore, be no difficulty in having a certain percentage of judges
who hail from other States. The advantages gained by having persons from
other States as judges would be much greater compared with any disadvantage
which might result therefrom. This question was also discussed at the Meetings of the Consultative
Committee of Parliament for the Law Ministry held on June 7, 1980, July 24,
1980 and December 17, 1980 and unanimous view taken by the members of the
Consultative Committee belonging to different political parties was that at
least one-third of the Judges in a High Court should be from outside the
State. The Chief Justice of India also in a communication addressed to the
Law Minister in March, 1978, expressed his view favouring outside
appointments to High Courts and in a letter addressed by him to the Law
Minister on March 18, 1981, he opined that "it is high time that at least a
few of the new appointments to every High Court were made from outside the
State". He also observed in a communication addressed in April 1981 that" 47. The circular letter after referring to the suggestion made several
bodies and forums that one-third of the Judges of the High Court should, as
far as possible, be from outside the State, proceeded of add : "Somehow no
start could be made in the past in this direction". The learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the petitioners assailed the correctness of this
statement and contended that an attempt was made during the emergency to
transfer permanent Judges of one High Court to another and the transfers
were sought to be defended by the Government of India on the same plea of
national integration and removal of narrow parochial tendencies and
therefore it was not correct on the part of the Law Minister to state that
no start could be made in the past for implementing the policy of having
one-third Judges of the High Court from outside the State. Now it is
difficult to appreciate how this statement in the circular letter could be
branded as incorrect for the reason that the transfers effected during the
emergency were sought to be defended on the plea of national integration
and removal of narrow parochial tendencies. In the first place, what the
circular letter seeks to do is to obtain the consent of the Additional
Judges, not for transfer to some other High Court, but for appointment as
permanent Judges in another High Court, whereas what took place during the
emergency were transfers of High Court Judges from one High Court to
another. Secondly, it is true that the transfers of High Court Judges made
during the emergency were sought to be defended by the Government of India
on the plea of national integration and removal of narrow parochial
tendencies, but this defence was found by the Court in Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth to be false. Chandrachud, J., as he
then was, observed in his judgment in that case (SCC p. 224) : "I would
only like to add that the record of this case does not bear out the claim
that any one of the 16 High Court Judges was transferred in order to
further the cause of national integration. For form it." What was held by
the Court was that the transfers of High Court Judges during the emergency
were made not for the purpose of furthering the cause of national
integration but by way of punishment. The Law Minister was therefore right
in stating in the first paragraph of the circular letter that no start has
been made in the past in the direction having one-third Judges in a High
Court from outside the State and that is why he was taking the initiative
in the matter. 48. Coming to the merits of the challenge against the validity of the
circular letter, the principal contention advanced on behalf of the
petitioners was that the circular letter required the Additional Judges as
also those whose names were recommended or might in future be recommended
for initial appointment, to give their consent for being appointed ad
Judges outside the state and obtaining of such consent in advance would
reduce the consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Chief Justice
of the High Court in which the Additional Judge or the prospective Judge is
to be appointed and the Governor of the State illusory and an empty
formality and this would be violative of Article 217 , clause (1) which
provides that the appointment of a Judge of a High Court can be made only
after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor
of the State and the Chief Justice of India. This contention is also, in
our opinion, without force and must be rejected. It is clear from the
language of clause (1) of Article 217 that the appointment of a Judge of a
high Court can be made by the President only after consultation with the
Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor of the State and the Chief
Justice of India and, according to the interpretation placed by us,
consultation within the meaning of this Article means full and effective
consultations with each of the three constitutional functionaries after
placing all relevant material before them. Now, if a person who is an
Additional Judge in the High Court in one State or who is an practising as
a lawyer in that State is to be appointed as a Judge in another State, then
obviously his willingness to be so appointed would be a highly relevant
factor and that would have to be ascertained and placed before the three
constitutional functionaries who are required to be consulted before an
appointment can be made. It is obvious that the President cannot appoint a
person to be a judge of a High Court without first ascertaining his
willingness to be appointed as a Judge in that High Court and someone has
to make an inquiry in that behalf in order to ascertain his willingness. It
is only if the person concerned is willing to be appointed as a Judge in
that High Court that the question would arise of processing his name and
consulting the three constitutional functionaries in regard to the
appointment of such person. This inquiry has to be made before the process
of consultation can start and the Law Minister therefore by addressing the
circular letter requested the Chief Minister of each State to make this
inquiry. It is true that the Law Minister did not state in so many terms in
the circular letter that the Chief Minister may make this inquiry through
the Chief Justice of the high Court but that was clearly implicit in the
circular letter, because a copy of the circular letter was also sent to the
Chief Justice of each High Court with the endorsement "for necessary
action" and moreover it must be presumed that the necessary inquiry would
be made by the Chief Minister only through the Chief Justice of the High
Court. The Chief Minister would not be expected to contact directly the
Additional Judges or the persons recommended for initial appointment, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether they are willing to be appointed as
Judges in any other High Court. Since the Chief Justice of the High Court
is the head of the judiciary in the State, the Chief Minister would
invariably route his inquiry through the Chief Justice of the High Court
and request the Chief Justice of the High Court to ascertain whether any of
the Additional Judges or persons recommended for initial appointment are
willing to be appointed to a High Court outside the State. This inquiry
could have been made by the Law Minister by writing directly to the Chief
Justice of each High Court but, instead of doing so, the Law Minister chose
to address his inquiry to the Chief Minister of each State, presumable
because he thought that it would be more appropriate for him to make this
inquiry through the Chief Minister of the State rather than by direct
communication with the Chief Justice of the High Court. The Law Minister
had to make this inquiry because without information as to whether an
Additional Judge or a person recommended for initial appointment was
willing to be appointed as a Judge in another High Court, his name could
not be processed for appointment as a Judge in that High Court. This was
the first step required to be taken and it was only after the willingness
of the Additional Judge or person recommended for initial appointment, to
be appointed as a Judge in another High Court was ascertained that the Law
Minister could place the proposal for appoinment of such person as a Judge
for the consideration of the Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor
of the State in which that High court is situated and the Chief Justice of
India. It would then be for the Chief Justice of that High Court to
consider whether the person proposed for appointment is fit to be appointed
in his High Court and whether he would recommend him for such appointment.
On this point, however, a serious objection was raised on behalf of the
petitioners and a question was posed as to how the Chief Justice of a High
Court can make any recommendation in regard to a person proposed to be
appointed as a Judge in his High Court unless he knows such person and has
seen his work either at the Bar or in the High Court or District Court and
is therefore in a position to assess his suitability for being appointed as
a Judge. The argument was that the Chief Justice of the High Court in which
the appointment is proposed to be made has a constitutional duty to give
his opinion in regard to the suitability of the person proposed to be
appointed and suitability would naturally include competence, character and
integrity and how can the Chief Justice give an honest opinion in regard to
the suitability of such person when he does not know him at all and has not
even had an opportunity of seeing his work. We do not think this argument
is well founded; the difficulty pointed out one behalf of the petitioners
is more imaginary than real. The Chief Justice of the High Court where the
appointment is proposed to be made need not blindly and unquestioningly
accept the proposal made by the Law Minister. The Chief Justice of the High
Court can make his own inquiries in regard to the suitability of the person
proposed for appointment either through the Chief Justice of the High Court
where such person is working as an Additional Judge or District Judge or
practising as a lawyer or through other sources such as the Advocate
General of that State. The Chief Justice of the High Court can also enquire
from the Governor of the State where the person proposed to be appointed is
working as an Additional Judge or District Judge or practising as a lawyer
and find out what are his antecedents and whether he possesses character
and integrity. The social philosophy of the person proposed to be appointed
as also his attitudes and habits of mind can also be ascertained by the
Chief Justice of the High Court by making inquiries from the Chief Justice
of the High Court where such person is working as an Additional Judge or
District Judge or practising as lawyer as also from the Governor of that
State and diverse other sources. It is not at all difficult for the Chief
Justice of the High Court where an appointment is proposed to be made to
gather the requisite information about the person proposed to be appointed
so as to enable him to make up his mind in regard to the suitability of
such person for appointment as a Judge. May we ask what happens when a
person is recommended for appointment as a Judge in a High Court by the
Chief Justice of India ? There have been quite a number of instances where
this has happened. There have been cases where the Chief Justice of India
has recommended members of the Supreme Court Bar for appointment as Judges
in different High Courts and equally there have been cases where members of
the Income Tax Tribunal as also person working in the legal department of
the Government of India have been recommended by the Chief Justice of India
for appointment as High Court Judges. In such cases, the Chief Justice of
the High Court where the appointment is proposed to be made, would
naturally gather the requisite information about the person proposed to be
appointed from the Chief Justice of India and other sources available to
him and decide whether such person is suitable for being appointed as a
Judge in his High Court. He may agree with the recommendation of the Chief
Justice of India or he may disagree with it. In fact, there have been
cases, though very few, where the Chief Justice of the High Court has
declined to accept the person proposed by the Chief Justice of India for
appointment as a Judge in his High Court. Merely because a recommendation
emanates form the Chief Justice of India, it does not mean that
consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court where the person
concerned is proposed to be appointed, would be reduced to a mockery. The
proposal for appointment of a person as a Judge may be initiated by the
Central Government or by any of the three constitutional functionaries
required to be consulted and form whomsoever the proposal emanates, the
other constitutional functionaries are required to be consulted in regard
to it on the basis of full and identical material. When the Chief Justice
of the High Court is informed that a particular person is willing to be
appointed as a Judge in his High Court and the proposal to appoint him as a
Judge may therefore be considered, the Chief Justice of the High Court can
ask the Central Government or the Chief Justice of India, whosoever has
made the proposal, to place before him all the relevant material in regard
to the person proposed to be appointed and also gather the necessary
material form the Chief Justice of the other High Court as also from other
sources available to him and then decide whether to recommend such person
or not. So also the Governor of the State where the appointment is proposed
to be made, can make the necessary inquiries and after considering all
relevant material decide what attitude it should adopt in regard to the
proposed appointment. The Chief Justice of India also would have a very
important role to play in the process of consultation. Before giving his
opinion in regard to the proposed appointment, the Chief Justice of India
may enquire directly from the person proposed to be appointed whether he is
really willing to be appointed as a Judge in another High Court and whether
the consent given by him is genuine and free. The person proposed to be
appointed may also pointed out to the Chief Justice of India his problems
and difficulties in accepting appointment in the other High Court and the
Chief Justice of India will consider all this material before he gives his
opinion to the President. The Chief Justice of India will also have to
consider whether the proposed appointment is bona fide and in public
interest or it is being made only with a view to favouring the person
concerned so that by appointment in another High Court, he may get some
benefit which he would not get in the High Court of his own State. The
Chief Justice of India may in such a case refuse to agree to the proposed
appointment, even though the person proposed to be appointed has consented
to it. These and many other relevant considerations will have to be taken
into account by the Chief Justice of India before he gives his opinion to
the President in regard to the proposed appointment. We therefore fail to
see how the obtaining of the consent of the person proposed for
appointment, in advance for being appointed as a Judge in another High
Court can possibly have the effect of reducing consultation with the Chief
Justice of India to a mockery or making it ineffective so as to be
violative of clause (1) of Article 217. 49. The next contention urged on behalf of the petitioners was that the
circular letter held out a veiled threat to the Additional Judges that if
they do not consent to their appointment as judges in a High Court other
than their own, they may not be appointed as permanent Judges at all and
may be dropped on the expiration of their term of office. The petitioners
relied on the use of the word 'obtain' in the circular letter and submitted
that the use of this word conveyed a sense of compelled obedience with an
implied threat that failure to give consent may entail adverse
consequences. Whether such adverse consequences actually flowed or not was
not material, contended the petitioners, but what was disturbing was that
there was an implied threat of such adverse consequences and that was
subversive of the independence of the judiciary. Moreover, consent obtained
under such threat of adverse consequences could not be regarded as valid
consent in law because consent to be valid must be free and must not be
induced by threat, coercion or duress. Now we fail to see how from the mere
use of the word 'obtain' in the circular letter, this entire edifice of an
argument that there was an implied threat to the Additional Judges that if
they do not give their consent for being appointed as judges in another
High Court, they would be visited with adverse consequences, can be built
up. The word 'obtain' is a transitive verb and it is obvious that when the
Chief Minister of each State was asked by Law Minister by issuing the
circular letter to obtain the consent of the Additional Judges for being
appointed as permanent judges in another High Court, what was meant was
that the Chief Minister should obtain the consent of each Additional Judge
if he was willing to give such consent. It is clear as a matter of plain
grammar that one person can obtain something from another provided that
other is willing to give it. The use of the word 'obtain' cannot possibly
be construed to mean that the person from whom the consent is to be
obtained must be coerced into giving it. To read the word 'obtain' in the
circular letter as meaning that the Chief Minister was expected to coerce
the Additional Judges into giving their consent or as conveying an implied
threat to the Additional Judges that if they do not give their consent they
might be dropped as Additional Judges on the expiration of their term,
would, in our opinion, be nothing short of torturing out of the language
used in the circular letter, a meaning which the language does not bear and
which could not possibly have been intended by the Law Minister. 50. The petitioners also sought to bolster up their case that the circular
letter held out a veiled threat to the Additional Judges by relying on the
statement contained in the circular letter that the giving of consent by
Additional Judges would not necessarily involve any commitment on the part
of the Central Government to appoint them as permanent Judges. But we do
not see how this statement can be regarded as a veiled threat that if an
Additional Judge does not give his consent for being appointed as a judge
in another High Court, he may not be appointed as a permanent Judge at all
and may be discontinued on the expiration of his term of office. We do not
think it is possible to read any such sinister implication in this
statement contained in the circular letter. This statement merely
reiterated the legal position, too well-settled to admit of any doubt or
debate, that merely because a person has given his consent to be appointed
as a judge in a High Court, it does not mean that he would necessarily be
appointed as a judge. He may not be appointed at all, if after consultation
with the three constitutional functionaries as provided in Article 217 ,
clause (1), it is decided not to appoint him. Even if it is decided to
appoint him, he may not be appointed as a judge in the High Court of his
choice because the Chief Justice of that High Court or the Governor of that
State or the Chief Justice of India may object to his appointment in that
High Court. He must not therefore remain under the impression that merely
because he has given his consent for being appointed as a judge outside his
State and expressed his preference as regards the High Courts where he
would like to be appointed, he would necessarily be appointed as a judge
and in the High Court of his choice. Far from this being a threat to the
Additional Judges, it was a clear intimation to them that they should not
be under any wrong impression that giving of consent would ensure them
appointment as a permanent Judge and in the High Court of their choice.
Whether to appoint an Additional Judge as a permanent Judge or to continue
him as an Additional Judge for a further term or to discontinue him on the
expiration of his term would be decided in accordance with the procedure laid down in clause (1) of Article 217 and giving of consent would not be a
factor tilting the balance in favour of the Additional Judge giving such
consent. We are also not impressed by the argument urged on behalf of the
petitioners that the omission to state in the circular letter that if an
Additional Judge does not give his consent to be appointed in any other
High Court, it would not be held against him in considering his appointment
as a permanent Judge, conveyed an implied threat that failure to give such
consent would be held against the Additional Judge and he might be
discontinued as an Additional Judge on that account. It is difficult to
spell out any such implied threat on a plain reading of the circular
letter. On the contrary it is significant to note that the circular letter
did not state, as it well might have, if such was the intention of the Law
Minister, that if consent is not given by an Additional Judge for being
appointed as a permanent Judge in another High Court, he would run the risk
of being discontinued as an Additional Judge on the expiration of his term.
It would be quite open to an Additional Judge under the circular letter to
say that he is not willing to be appointed in any other High Court except
his own and even so, when his term as an Additional Judge expires, he could
still be considered for appointment as an Additional Judge for a further
term or as a permanent Judge in his own High Court, there being nothing in
the circular letter against it and the procedure set out in clause (1) of Article 217 would then be followed. An Additional Judge, as we have already
pointed out above, is entitled to be considered for appointment as an
Additional Judge for a further term or as a permanent Judge in his own High
Court and such appointment cannot be refused to him on the ground he has
not given his consent for being appointed as a permanent Judge in another
High Court. Such a ground for discontinuing an Additional Judge on the
expiration of his term would be a wholly irrelevant ground and we do not
think it could ever have been intended by the Law Minister consistently
with the constitutional requirement that an Additional Judge who does not
give his consent for being appointed as a permanent Judge outside his High
Court should on that account be discontinued as an Additional Judge on the
expiration of his term. It would not be right to read the circular letter
with a suspicious eye as if it was designed to cow down the Additional
Judges into submission by holding out an implied threat to them. There are,
in fact, quite a few judges who have not given their consent to be
appointed as permanent Judges in another High Court and no adverse
consequence has ensued to them. We do not think that our Additional Judges
are made of such weak stuff that they would submit to any supposed threats
by the executive and give their consent to be appointed as permanent Judges
in another High Court out of fear that they might be discontinued as
Additional Judges if they do not give such consent. 51. There was also one other contention advanced on behalf of the
petitioners, namely, that to require a person whose name is to be
recommended for initial appointment as a judge to give his consent for
being appointed as a judge in another High Court would be to introduce an
irrelevant qualification for the appointment of a judge. The argument was
that to obtain such consent from a person whose name is to be recommended
for appointment would be to introduce a requirement for appointing a judge
which is not prescribed by the Constitution and the obtaining of such
consent would therefore be unconstitutional. It is, with the greater
respect to the learned consul appearing on behalf of the petitioners,
extremely difficult for us to appreciate this argument. When the name of a
person is being considered for appointment as a judge because he is
regarded as suitable for such appointment, we fail to see why he cannot be
asked whether he is willing to be appointed as a judge in another High
Court. It is for him to decide whether or not to give his consent for such
appointment. He may very well say that he is not agreeable to be appointed
as a judge in any High Court other than his own, but if, in the exercise of
his own volition, he gives his consent for being appointed as a judge in
another High Court, it is difficult to see how it can ever be contended
that by obtaining such consent, an irrelevant qualification for appointment
of a judge has been introduced. It is not as if a person who does not give
his consent for being appointed as a judge in another High Court would
necessarily be refused appointment in his own High Court. It is significant
to note that, in fact, even after the date of the circular letter, quite a
few new appointments have been made in different High Courts of persons
either practising as lawyers in those High Courts or working as District
Judges under those High Courts. 52. The last contention urged on behalf of the petitioners was that the
circular letter was really an attempt on the part of the government to
transfer judges from one High Court to another by circumventing the
decision of this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case . This contention
urged on behalf of the petitioners is wholly unfounded and no amount of
legal casuistry or ingenuity can sustain it. It is difficult to appreciate
how the circular letter can at all be interpreted as an attempt to bring
about transfer of judges from one High Court to another. The circular
letter deals with two categories of persons; one is the category of persons
who are recommended or may in future be recommended for initial appointment
as judges and the other is the category of Additional Judges who are
appointed for a period of two years or less. So far as the first category
of persons is concerned, it is impossible to contend and with all his
ingenuity even Mr. Seervai appearing on behalf of the petitioners could not
argue, that when a person who is recommended or proposed to be recommended
for initial appointment as a judge is asked whether he is willing to be
appointed as a judge in another High Court, any transfer is involved in
such process. When such person is not a sitting Judge in any High Court and
is appointed for the first time in another High Court, it is difficult to
see how he can be said to be transferred. The transfer contemplated in Article 222 , clause (1) is not a mere act of physical locomotion or
transfer of residence from one place to another, but it is an act by which
a judge in one High Court is transferred as a judge of another High Court.
Equally there is no transfer involved where an Additional Judge is, on the
expiration of his term, appointed as an Additional Judge in another High
Court or is appointed as a permanent Judge in any other High Court. It is
no doubt true that by reason of his appointment as an Additional Judge or
permanent Judge in another High Court, he has physically to go to that High
Court, but it is not while being a judge of one High Court that he goes
over as a judge of the other High Court. His appointment as an Additional
Judge of one High Court comes to an end and he is appointed afresh as an
Additional or permanent Judge in another High Court. It is by virtue of a
fresh appointment that he becomes a judge, whether additional or permanent,
of another High Court and he is not transferred from one High Court to
another within the meaning of clause (1) of Article 222. If the contention
of the petitioners were correct, it would not be necessary, while
appointing an Additional or permanent Judge in another High Court, to
follow the procedure set out in clause (1) of Article 217 and to consult
the Chief Justice of the latter High Court and the Governor of that State
as required by that article and it would be possible to appoint such person
as an Additional or permanent Judge in another High Court after consulting
only the Chief Justice of India under clause (1) of Article 222. This
proposition has only to be stated in order to be rejected; it would clearly
amount to circumventing the provisions of clause (1) of Article 217. Take
for example a case where a person who is an Additional Judge in a High
Court for a period of two years is, on the expiration of his term of two
years, appointed as a permanent Judge in another High Court. Can such
appointment of a permanent Judge be made in the other High Court without
consulting the Chief Justice of that High Court and the Governor of that
State under clause (1) of Article 217 ? There is in such a case no transfer
at all; it is a case of fresh appointment made in the other High Court and
that can be done only after going through the procedure set out in clause
(1) of Article 217. 53. Mr. Seervai, appearing on behalf of the petitioners however relied
strongly on a speech made by the Law Minister in the Lok Sabha on April 16,
1981 where at Columns 271 and 274 of the Lok Sabha Debates, the Law
Minister himself had used the expression 'transfer' while speaking about
the circular letter. The learned counsel contended that the use of the
expression 'transfer' by the Law Minister himself supported his argument
that what the circular letter sought to do was to transfer judges from one
High Court to another. This contention is in our opinion, wholly
unsustainable and it is no better than relying on a broken reed. It is
undoubtedly true that in Columns 271 and 274, the Law Minister used the
expression 'transfer' or 'transferred' while referring to the circular
letter, but one cannot fasten upon a stray use of a loose expression for
the purpose of determining what is the true effect of the circular letter.
The speech of the Law Minister has to be read as a whole and if it is so
read, it is clear that at more than one place, the Law Minister made it
clear that what was contemplated by the circular letter was "not a case of
transfer but a case of an appointment under Article 217" vide Column 273.
The Law Minister also reiterated in Column 223 that "insofar as Additional
Judges are concerned, the circular letter seeks to obtain their consent to
their appointment as permanent Judges to High Courts outside and these
would be appointments under Article 217". Then again in Column 270, the Law
Minister clarified that the" appointment of an Additional Judge as a
permanent Judge could also be termed as an initial appointment" . The
expression 'transfer' or 'transferred' in Columns 271 and 274 was obviously
used in a loose sense meaning physical locomotion. It must be remembered
that this expression happened to be used by the Law Minister in an
extempore speech made on the floor of the House and not in a document or
letter prepared after much care and deliberation. No undue reliance can
therefore be placed on behalf of the petitioners on the use of the
expression 'transfer' or 'transferred' in the speech of the Law Minister.
Mr. Seervai also relied strongly on the circumstance that three
associations of lawyers in Bombay had all taken the view that the circular
letter contemplated transfer of Additional Judges and sought their consent
to such transfer. But this circumstance has very little relevance in the
interpretation of the circular letter for it is not for the lawyers
practising in a particular High Court to construe the circular letter but
is for this Court to determine what is the true meaning of that document.
We are clearly of the view - in fact we find it impossible to take a
different view - that what was contemplated by the circular letter was not
transfer of Additional Judge from one High Court to another and it did not
therefore, have to satisfy the requirements of clause (1) of Article 222. 54. But quite apart from this consideration, even if the view be taken that
what the circular letter sought to achieve was transfer of Additional
Judges from one High Court to another, it is difficult to see how by
obtaining consent of the Additional Judges in advance, the Law Minister
would be circumventing the majority decision in Sakalchand Sheth case . The majority view in Sakalchand Sheth case was that a judge
can be transferred from one High Court to another without his consent, but
the transfer must be after full and effective consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and it must not be by way of punishment but must be in
public interest. Therefore, obviously it would be of no help to the Law
Minister to obtain the consent of an Additional Judge in advance to be
appointed as a permanent Judge in any other High Court, because despite
such consent, the Additional Judge cannot be appointed as a permanent Judge
in another High Court without full and effective consultation with the
Chief Justice of India and according to the majority decision in Sakalchand
Sheth case , the opinion given by the Chief Justice of India would
be entitled to the greatest weight and any departure from it would have to
be justified by the Central Government on strong and cogent grounds. In
such a case, even where the consent of the Additional Judge has been
obtained in advance, the Chief Justice of India would have to consider
whether it is in public interest to appoint the Additional Judge as a
permanent Judge in another High Court and the consent obtained in advance
would not pre-empt the consultative exercise with the Chief Justice of
India. The advance consent obtained from the Additional Judge would have no
meaning so far as the Chief Justice of India is concerned, because
irrespective of whether the Additional Judge has given his consent or not,
the Chief Justice of India would have to consider whether it would be in
public interest to allow the Additional Judge to be appointed as a
permanent Judge in the other High Court. Therefore, even on the assumption
that the appointment of an Additional Judge as a permanent Judge in another
High Court amounts to transfer, which of course we emphatically repudiate,
it is difficult to see how the circular letter can be construed as an
attempt to circumvent the majority decision in Sakalchand Sheth case . 55. We do not therefore find any constitutional or legal infirmity or any
abuse or misuse of authority on the part of the Law Minister in issuing the
circular letter. The circular letter does not violate the provisions of
clause (1) of Article 217 or clause (1) of Article 222 nor does it offend
against any other constitutional or legal provision and the challenge
against the validity of the circular letter must, therefore, fail. We may,
however, while affirming the validity of the circular letter, make it clear
that since an Additional Judge has a right to be considered for appointment
as an Additional Judge for a further term on the expiration of his original
term, and in case of a vacancy in a permanent post, for appointment as a
permanent Judge in his own High Court, he cannot be discontinued as an
Additional Judge on the ground that he has not given his consent for being
appointed as a permanent Judge in any other High Court. Such a ground for
discontinuing an Additional Judge would be a wholly irrelevant ground and
if, on the expiration of his original term, an Additional Judge is
discontinued on any such ground, the decision of the President
discontinuing him would be unconstitutional and void and the Union of India
would be liable to be directed to reconsider his case on the basis of
relevant considerations after excluding the irrelevant ground. Disclosure of documents : Privilege 56. We now come to a very important question which was agitated before us
at great length and which exercised our minds considerably before we could
reach a decision. The question related to the disclosure of the
correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of
Delhi and the Chief Justice of India in regard to the non-appointment of O.
N. Vohra and S. N. Kumar as Additional Judges. The learned counsel for the
petitioners and S. N. Kumar argued before us with great passion and
vehemence that these documents were relevant to the inquiry before the
court and they should be directed to be disclosed by the Union of India.
This claim of the petitioners and S. N. Kumar for disclosure was resisted
by the Solicitor-General of India on behalf of the Union of India and Mr.
Mridul on behalf of the Law Minister. They contended that so far as O. N.
Vohra was concerned his case stood on an entirely different footing from
that of S. N. Kumar since, unlike S. N. Kumar who allied himself with the
petitioners and actively participated in the arguments almost as if he was
petitioner, O. N. Vohra though made a party respondent to the writ petition
of V. M. Tarkunde did not appear and participate in the proceedings or seek
any relief from the court in regard to his continuance as an Additional
Judge. Mr. Mridul on behalf of the Law Minister informed us that in fact O.
N. Vohra had started practice in the Delhi High Court and his case could
not be considered by us when he himself did not want any relief. So far as
the case of S. N. Kumar was concerned the learned Solicitor-General on
behalf of the Union of India conceded that the documents of which
disclosure was sought on behalf of the petitioners and S. N. Kumar were
undoubtedly relevant to the issue arising before the Court, but contended -
and in this contention he was supported by Mr. Mridul on behalf of the Law
Minister - that they were privileged against disclosure for a two-fold
reason. One was that they formed part of the advice tendered by the Council
of Ministers to the President and hence by reason of Article 74 , clause (2)
of the Constitution, the Court was precluded from ordering their disclosure
and looking into them and the other was that they were protected against
disclosure under Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act since their
disclosure would injure public interest. We propose to consider these rival
arguments in the order in which we have set them out, first in regard to O.
N. Vohra and then in regard to S. N. Kumar. 57. So far as O. N. Vohra is concerned, it it apparent that though he was
joined as a party respondent to the writ petition filed by V. M. Tarkunde,
he did not choose to appear and take part in the proceedings. He did not
even file an appearance, presumably because he was not interested in
wresting back the office of an Additional Judge through a judicial writ. He
adopted a commendable attitude consistent with the dignity of the high
office which he had the privilege to hold for over two years and scorned to
be a party to any litigative adventure for getting back the office of a
High Court Judge. He took the view that the office of a High Court Judge is
no mean office for which one may canvas, lobby or fight but it is a high
position which can only be offered and which one should regard as an honour
to be invited to fill and if for any reason, justifiable or not, the
Government chooses not to offer it to the deserving person, it may result
in detriment to public interest for which the Government may have to
account to the people through their elected representatives, but the person
concerned should not litigate his claim to this high office. That would
lower the dignity of the office by making it the subject-matter of
litigative controversy. It was presumably for this reason that O. N. Vohra
did not appear in the writ petition or seek any relief from the Court in
regard to his continuance as an Additional Judge. In fact, we are told, O.
N. Vohra has already started practice in the Delhi High Court. Now if O. N.
Vohra has not come forward to seek any relief from the Court and is not
claiming that he should be deemed to have been appointed a permanent Judge
or that he should be reappointed as an Additional Judge for a further term,
it is difficult to see how the Court can be called upon to examine his case
for the purpose of determining whether he was wrongly discontinued as an
Additional Judge. We have taken a broad and liberal view in regard to locus
standi and held that any public-spirited advocate acting bona fide and not
for private gain or personal profit or political motivation or any other
oblique consideration, may file a writ petition in the High Court
challenging an unconstitutional or illegal action of the Government or any
other constitutional authority prejudicially affecting the administration
of justice and in such writ petition he may claim relief not for himself
personally but for those who are the direct victims of such
unconstitutional or illegal action, because granting such relief to them
would repair the injury caused to administration of justice. But the
persons for whom the relief is sought must be ready to accept it; they must
appear and make it known that they are claiming such relief; it cannot be
thrust upon them unless they wish it. If, in the present case, O. N. Vohra
does not seek to go back as an Additional Judge through judicial
intervention, the petitioners cannot contend that he must still be
continued as an Additional Judge irrespective of his inclination. The
relief sought by the petitioners being primarily for the benefit of O. N.
Vohra, it is for O. N. Vohra to decide whether he would have it and if he
does not want it, it would be a fruitless exercise for the Court to
determine whether the decision not to appoint him as an Additional Judge
was unconstitutional and he should have been appointed as an Additional
Judge for a further term. The Court does not decide issues in the abstract.
It undertakes determination of a controversy provided it is necessary in
order to give relief to a party and if no relief can be given because none
is sought, the Court cannot take upon itself a theoretical exercise merely
for the purpose of deciding academic issues, howsoever important they may
be. The Court cannot embark upon an inquiry whether there was any misuse or
abuse of power in a particular case, unless relief is sought by the person
who is said to have been wronged by such misuse or abuse of power. The
Court cannot take upon itself the role of a commission of inquiry - a
knight errant roaming at will with a view to destroying evil wherever it is
found. It was for this reason that we held that the correspondence
exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the
Chief Justice of India in regard to non-appointment of O. N. Vohra was not
relevant to the issues arising for determination in the writ petition and
the Union of India could not be required to disclose it. 58. That takes us to the case of S. N. Kumar which stands on a totally
different footing, because S. N. Kumar has appeared in the writ petition,
filed an affidavit supporting the writ petition and contested, bitterly and
vehemently, the decision of the Central Government not to continue him as
an Additional Judge for a further term. Since S. N. Kumar has claimed
relief from the Court in regard to his continuance as an Additional Judge,
an issue is squarely joined between the petitioners and S. N. Kumar on the
one hand and the Union of India on the other which requires to be
determined for the purpose of deciding whether relief as claimed in the
writ petition can be granted to S. N. Kumar. Now, as we have already
pointed out while discussing the scope and ambit of Article 217 , there are
only tow grounds on which the decision of the Central Government not to
continue an Additional Judge for a further term can be assailed and they
are, firstly, that there has been no full and effective consultation
between the Central Government and the constitutional authorities required
to be consulted under that Article and, secondly, that the decision of the
Central Government is based on irrelevant grounds. It was on both these
grounds that the petitioners and S. N. Kumar impugned the decision of the
Central Government not to appoint S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge for a
further term and there can be no doubt that the correspondence exchanged
between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice
of India would be relevant qua both these grounds. The learned Solicitor-
General on behalf of the Union of India and Mr. Mridul on behalf of the Law
Minister, with the usual candour and frankness always shown by them, did
not dispute the relevance of these documents to the issues arising in the
writ petition in regard to S. N. Kumar, but contended that they were
protected against disclosure under Article 74 , clause (2) of the
Constitution as also Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act. This
contention raised an extremely important question in the area of public law
particularly in the context of the open society which we are trying to
evolve as part of the democratic structure and it caused great concern to
us, for it involved a clash between two competing aspects of public
interest, but ultimately after inspecting these documents for ourselves and
giving our most anxious thought to this highly debatable question, we
decided to reject the claim for protection against disclosure and directed
that these documents be disclosed by the Union of India. We now proceed to
give our reasons for this decision taken by us by a majority of six against
one. 59. The first ground on which protection against disclosure was claimed on
behalf of the Union of India and the Law Minister was based on Article 74 ,
clause (2) of the Constitution. It is clear from the constitutional scheme
that under our Constitution the President is a constitutional Head and is
bound to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This was
the position even before the amendment of clause (1) of Article 74 by the
Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act, 1976, but the position has been made
absolutely explicit by the amendment and Article 74 , clause (1) as amended
now reads as under : 60. The argument of the learned Solicitor-General was that this
correspondence formed part of the advice tendered by the Council of
Ministers to the President and he sought to support this argument by
adopting the following process of reasoning. He said that the Council of
Ministers cannot advise the President to appoint or not to appoint an
Additional Judge for a further term without consulting the Chief Justice of
the High Court and the Chief Justice of India. It is only after consulting
them that appropriate advice can be tendered by the Council of Ministers to
the President. When advice is tendered by the Council of Ministers to the
President, it is open to the President under the proviso to clause (1) of Article 74 not to immediately accept such advice but to require the Council
of Ministers to reconsider the advice generally or otherwise. If in a given
case the President finds that advice has been given by the Council of
Ministers without consulting either the Chief Justice of the High Court or
the Chief Justice of India or both or that there has been no full and
effective consultation with them as required by the Constitution, he may,
and indeed he must, send the case back to the Council of Ministers and
require them to reconsider the advice after carrying out full and effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice
of India. Now how can the President satisfy himself in regard to the
fulfilment of the constitutional requirement of consultation with the Chief
Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India, unless the views
expressed by the two Chief Justices are placed before him along with the
advice tendered by the Council of Ministers. The exercise of the power of
the President to appoint or not to appoint an Additional Judge is so
integrally connected with the constitutional requirement of full and
effective consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court and the
Chief Justice of India that at no stage can it be delinked from the views
expressed by them on consultation and it would not be possible for the
President to exercise this executive power in accordance with the
Constitution unless the views of the two Chief Justices are placed before
him. On the basis of this reasoning and as a logical consequence of it,
argued the learned Solicitor-General, the views of the Chief Justice of
Delhi and the Chief Justice of India obtained on consultation must be
regarded as forming part of the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers
to the President. The learned Solicitor-General sought to draw support for
his argument from the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in the State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev . We shall presently refer to this decision but before
we do so, let us examine the argument of the learned Solicitor-General on
principle. 61. There can be no doubt that the advice tendered by the Council of
Ministers to the President is protected against judicial scrutiny by reason
of clause (2) of Article 74. But can it be said that the views expressed by
the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India on
consultation form part of the advice. The advice is given by the Council of
Ministers after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court and
the Chief Justice of India. The two Chief Justices are consulted on "full
and identical facts" and their views are obtained and it is after
considering those views that the Council of Ministers arrives at its
decision and tenders its advice to the President. The views expressed by
the two Chief Justices precede the formation of the advice and merely
because they are referred to in the advice which is ultimately tendered by
the Council of Ministers, they do not necessarily become part of the
advice. What is protected against disclosure under clause (2) or Article 74 is only the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers. The reasons which
have weighed with the Council of Ministers in giving the advice would
certainly form part of the advice, as held by this Court in State of
Rajasthan v. Union of India . Vide the observations of Beg, C.J. at page 46 SCC(p) 632 ),
Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) at page 61 SCC(p) 645 ), Fazal Ali, J. at
pages 120 and 121 (SCC pp 693-94), where all the three learned Judges took
the view that by reason of clause (2) of Article 74 the Court would be
barred from inquiring into the grounds which might weigh with the Council
of Ministers in advising the President to issue a proclamation under Article 356 , because the grounds would form part of the advice tendered by
the Council of Ministers. But the material on which the reasoning of the
Council of Minister is based and the advice is given cannot be said to form
part of the advice. The point we are making may be illustrated by taking
the analogy of a judgment given by a Court of Law. The judgment would
undoubtedly be based on the evidence led before the Court and it would
refer to such evidence and discuss it but on that account can it be said
that the evidence forms part of the judgment ? The judgment would consist
only of the decision and the reasons in support of it and the evidence on
which the reasoning and the decision are based would not be part of the
judgment. Similarly the material on which the advice tendered by the
Council of Ministers is based cannot be said to be part of the advice and
the correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of
Delhi and the Chief Justice of India which constituted the material forming
the basis of the decision of the Central Government must accordingly be
held to be outside the exclusionary rule enacted in clause (2) of Article 74. 62. We may now refer to the decision of the Constitution Bench of this
Court in the State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh on which the greatest reliance was
placed by the learned Solicitor-General in support of his plea based on
clause (2) of Article 74. The respondent who was the District and Sessions
Judge in the erstwhile State of Pepsu was removed from service by an order
dated April 7, 1953 passed by the President who was then incharge of the
Administration of the State. The respondent made a representation against
the order of removal which was considered by the Council of Ministers of
the State as in the meantime the President's rule had come to and end and
the Council of Ministers expressed its views in a Resolution passed on
September 28, 1955. But before taking any action it invited the Report of
the Public Service Commission. On receipt of the Report of the Public
Service Commission, the Council of Ministers considered the matter again
and ultimately on August 11, 1956 it reached the final conclusion against
the respondent and in accordance which the conclusion, the order was passed
to the effect that the respondent must be re-employed on some suitable
post. The respondent thereupon instituted a suit against the successor
State of Punjab for a declaration that his removal from service was illegal
and in that suit he filed an application for the production of certain
documents which included inter alia the proceedings of the Council of
Ministers dated September 28, 1955 and August 11, 1956 and the Report of
the Public Service Commission. The State objected to the production of
these documents and ultimately the matter came before this Court.
Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) speaking on behalf of the majority of
the Court upheld the claim of privilege put forward on behalf of the State
and so far as the Report of the Public Service Commission was concerned,
the learned Judge held that it was protected against disclosure both under
clause (3) of Article 163 , and Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act. We
are at present concerned only with the claim for protection under clause
(3) of Article 163 because that is an Article which corresponds to clause
(2) of Article 74 insofar as advice by the Council of Ministers to the
Governor is concerned. The learned Judge speaking on behalf of the
majority, accorded protection to the report of the Public Service
Commission under clause (3) of Article 163 on the ground that it formed
part of the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers to the Rajpramukh.
This view taken by the majority does appear prima facie to support the
contention of the learned Solicitor-General, but we do not think we can
uphold the claim for protection put forward by the learned Solicitor-
General by adopting a process of analogical reasoning from the majority
view in this decision. In the first place, we do not know what were the
circumstances in which the majority Judges came to regard the report of the
Public Service Commission as forming part of the advice tendered to the
Rajpramukh. There is no reasoning in the judgment of the learned Judge
showing as to why the majority held that the report of the Public Service
Commission fell within the terms of clause (3) of Article 163. The learned
Judge has merely set out his ipse dixit, without any reasons at all, saying
in just one sentence : "The same observation falls to be made in regard to
the advice tendered by the Public Service Commission to the Council of
Ministers." It is elementary that what is binding on the court in a
subsequent case is not the conclusion arrived at in a previous decision but
the ratio of that decision, for it is the ratio which binds as a precedent
and not the conclusion. Secondly, we may point out that we find it
difficult to accept the view taken by the majority in this case. We are
unable to appreciate how the report of the Public Service Commission which
merely formed the material on the basis of which the Council of Ministers
came to its decision as recorded in the proceedings dated August 11, 1956
could be said to form part of the advice tendered by the Council of
Ministers to the Rajpramukh. We do not think the learned Solicitor-General
can invoke the aid of this decision in support of his claim for protection
under clause (2) of Article 74. 63. That takes us to the next question whether the correspondence exchanged
between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice
of India is protected from disclosure under any other provision of law. We
do not have in India any common law protection under the label of "Crown
Privilege" as it was known a decade ago and now called "Public interest
immunity" as there is in England and the only provision of law under which
such immunity can be claimed is Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act and
therefore, it is this provision which we must now turn to consider. But,
before we do so, we would like to indicate the socio-political background
in the context of which this section has to be interpreted. It is true that
this section was enacted in the second half of the last century but its
meaning and content cannot remain static. The interpretation of every
statutory provision must keep pace with changing concepts and values and it
must, to the extent to which its language permits or rather does not
prohibit, suffer adjustments through judicial interpretation so as to
accord with the requirements of the fast changing society which is
undergoing rapid social and economic transformation. The language of a
statutory provision is not a static vehicle of ideas and concepts and as
ideas and concepts change, as they are bound to do in a country like ours
with the establishment of a democratic structure based on egalitarian
values and aggressive developmental strategies, so must the meaning and
content of the statutory provision undergo a change. It is elementary that
law does not operate in a vacuum. It is not an antique to be taken down,
dusted, admired and put back on the shelf, but rather it is a powerful
instrument fashioned by society for the purpose of adjusting conflicts and
tensions which arise by reason of clash between conflicting interests. It
is therefore intended to serve a social purpose and it cannot be
interpreted without taking into account the social, economic and political
setting in which it is intended to operate. It is here that the judge is
called upon to perform a creative function. He has to inject flesh and
blood in the dry skeleton provided by the legislature and by a process of
dynamic interpretation, invest it with a meaning which will harmonise the
law with the prevailing concepts and values and make it an effective
instrument for delivery of justice. We need not therefore be obsessed with
the fact that Section 123 is a statutory provision of old vintage or that
it has been interpreted in a particular manner some two decades ago. It is
not as if it has once spoken and then turned into muted silence. It is an
instrument which can speak again and in a different voice in the content of
a different milieu. Let us therefore try to understand what voice this
statutory provision speaks today in a democratic society wedded to the
basic values enshrined in the Constitution. 64. Now it is obvious from the Constitution that we have adopted a
democratic form of Government. Where a society has chosen to accept
democracy as its credal faith, it is elementary that the citizens ought to
know what their government is doing. The citizens have a right to decide by
whom and by what rules they shall be governed and they are entitled to call
on those who govern on their behalf to account for their conduct. No
democratic Government can survive without accountability and the basic
postulate of accountability is that the people should have information
about the functioning of government. It is only if people know how
government is functioning that they can fulfil the role which democracy
assigns to them and make democracy a really effective participatory
democracy. "Knowledge" said James Madison, "will for ever govern ignorance
and a people who mean to be their own governors must arm themselves with
the power knowledge gives. A popular government without popular information
or the means of obtaining it, is but a prologue to a force or tragedy or
perhaps both" . The citizens' right to know the facts, the true facts,
about the administration of the country is thus one of the pillars of a
democratic State. And that is why the demand for openness in the government
is increasingly growing in different parts of the world. 65. The demand for openness in the government is based principally on two
reasons. It is now widely accepted that democracy does not consist merely
in people exercising their franchise once is five years to choose their
rules and, once the vote is cast, then retiring in passivity and not taking
any interest in the government. Today it is common ground that democracy
has a more positive content and its orchestration has to be continuous and
pervasive. This means inter alia that people should not only cast
intelligent and rational votes but should also exercise sound judgment on
the conduct of the government and the merits of public policies, so that
democracy does not remain merely a sporadic exercise in voting but becomes
a continuous process of government - an attitude and habit of mind. But his
important role people can fulfil in a democracy only if it is an open
government where there is full access to information in regard to the
functioning of the government. 66. There is also in every democracy a certain amount of public suspicion
and distrust of government, varying of course from time to time according
to its performance, which prompts people to insist upon maximum exposure of
its functioning. It is axiomatic that every action of the government must
be actuated by public interest but even so we find cases, though not many,
where governmental action is taken not for public good but for personal
gain or other extraneous considerations. Sometimes governmental action is
influenced by political and other motivations and pressures and at times,
there are also instances of misuse or abuse of authority on the part of the
executive. Now, if secrecy were to be observed in the functioning of
government and the processes of government were to be kept hidden from
public scrutiny, it would tend to promote and encourage oppression,
corruption and misuse or abuse of authority, for it would all be shrouded
in the veil of secrecy without any public accountability. But if there is
an open government with means of information available to the public, there
would be greater exposure of the functioning of government and it would
help to assure the people a better and more efficient administration. There
can be little doubt that exposure to public gaze and scrutiny is one of the
surest means of achieving a clean and healthy administration. It has been
truly said that an open government is clean government and powerful
safeguard against political and administrative aberration and inefficiency. 67. The Franks Committee of the United Kingdom also observed to the same
effect while pleading for an open government. It said in its report at page
12 : It is also necessary for arriving at a proper interpretation of Section 123 to refer to Section 162 which says : The court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to
matters of State, or take other evidence to enable it to determine on its
admissibility. Translation of documents. - If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause
any document to be translated, the court may, if it thinks fit, direct the
translator to keep the contents secret, unless the document is to be given
in evidence; and if the interpreter disobeys such directions, he shall be
held to have committed an offence under Section 166 of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860 (45 of 1860). These two sections came up for consideration for the first time before this
Court in State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh . Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was),
speaking on behalf of himself, Sinha, C.J. and Wanchoo, J. pointed out that
the principle behind the exclusionary rule enacted in Section 123 is that a
document should not be allowed to be produced in court if such production
would cause injury to public interest and where a conflict arises between
public interest in non-disclosure and private interest in disclosure, the
latter must yield to the former. The learned Judge emphasized that though Section 123 does not expressly refer to injury to public interest, that
principle is obviously implicit in it and indeed it is the sole foundation
and proceeded to add that even though administration of justice is a matter
of very high public importance, if there is a real "conflict between public
interest and the interest of an individual in a pending case, it may
reluctantly have to be conceded that the interest of the individual cannot
prevail over the public interest." Now we agree with the learned Judge that
public interest lies at the foundation of the claim for protection against
disclosure enacted in Section 123 and it seeks to prevent production of a
document where such production would cause public injury but we do not
think the learned Judge was right in observing that the interest which
comes into conflict with the claim for non-disclosure is the private
interest of the litigant in disclosure. It is rather the public interest in
fair administration of justice that comes into clash with the public
interest sought to be protected by non-disclosure and the court is called
upon to balance these two aspects of public interest and decide which
aspect predominates. We shall have to discuss this problem of balancing
different aspects of public interest a little later, but in the meanwhile
let us continue with the examination of the decision in Sukhdev Singh case. Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) after pointing out that public interest
was the sole foundation for the claim for protection under Section 123 proceeded to consider when a document can be said to be relating to
"affairs of State" within the meaning of that section. The learned Judge
observed that three different views are possible on this question. The
first view is that documents relating to affairs of State are broadly
divisible into two classes, one the disclosure of which will cause no
injury to public interest and which may therefore be described as innocuous
documents and the other the disclosure of which may cause injury to public
interest and may therefor be described as noxious documents; it is the head
of the department who decides to which class the document in respect of
which the claim for protection against disclosure is made, belongs; if he
comes to the conclusion that the document is innocuous, he will give
permission for its production; if, however, he comes to the conclusion that
the document is noxious, he will withhold such permission; in any case the
court does not materially come into the picture. The second view is that
documents relating to affairs of State should be confined only to the class
of noxious documents and when a question arises, it is for the court to
determine the character of the document and if necessary, to enquire
whether its disclosure would lead to injury to public interest. The third
view which does not accept either of the two extreme positions would be
that the court can determine the character of the document and if it comes
to the conclusion that the document belongs to the class, it may leave it
to the head of the department to decide whether its production should be
permitted or not, for it is not the policy of Section 123 that in the case
of every noxious document, the head of the department must always withhold
permission. The learned Judge then proceeded to consider which of the three
views represents the correct legal position and for that purpose, turned to
examine Section 162 and after discussing the true import of that section
and holding that where an objection to the disclosure of a document is
raised under Section 123 on the ground that it relates to affairs of State,
the court cannot inspect the document for the purpose of deciding the
objection, the learned Judge accepted the third view as correct and
summarised his conclusion in the following words :Thus our conclusion is
that reading Sections 123 and 162 together the court cannot hold an enquiry
into the possible injury to public interest which may result from the
disclosure of the document in question. That is a matter for the authority
concerned to decide; but the court is competent, and indeed is bound, to
hold a preliminary enquiry and determine the validity of the objections to
its production, and that necessarily involves an enquiry into the question
as to whether the evidence relates to an affairs of State under Section 123 or not. In this enquiry the court has to determine the character or class of the
document. If it comes to the conclusion that the document does not relate
to affairs of State then it should reject the claim for privilege and
direct its production. If it comes to the conclusion that the document
relates to the affairs of State, it should leave it to the head of the
department to decide whether he should permit its production or not. The learned Judge thus took the view in no uncertain terms that documents
relating to affairs of State are documents belonging to the noxious class,
that is, documents which by reason of their contents or the class to which
they belong, are such that disclosure may cause injury to public interest.
The learned Judge agreed that it is for the court to determine whether a
particular document in respect of which the claim for non-disclosure is
made is a document relating to affairs of the State or in other words, it
is a document falling within the noxious class, but introduced a serious
impediment in the way of the court making such determination by holding
that the court cannot for this purpose inspect the document or hold "an
enquiry into the possible injury to public interest which may result from
the disclosure of the document." Now, if the court has no power to inspect
the document, it is difficult to understand how the court can find, without
conducting an enquiry as regards the possible effect of the disclosure of
the document upon public interest, that the document is one relating to
affairs of State, as exhypothesi a document can be said to relate to
affairs of State only if its disclosure will cause injury to public
interest. It might be that there are certain classes of documents which are
of such a character that even without inspecting them or conducting an
enquiry, it might be possible to say that by virtue of their character,
their disclosure would be injurious to public interest and therefore they
are documents relating to affairs of State. But, there might be other
documents which do not fall within this description and yet whose
disclosure might be injurious to public interest and in case of such
documents, it would not be possible for the court without inspecting them
or any rate without holding an enquiry, to determine whether their
disclosure would be injurious to public interest and they should therefore
be classified as documents relating to affairs of State. Even so, according
to Gajendragadkar, J. and the other learned Judges, the court can and must
determine whether such documents relate to affairs of State without
inspecting them and without even holding an enquiry into the possible
injury to public interest which might result from their disclosure. The
view taken by Gajendragadkar, J. and the other learned Judges in Sodhi
Sukhdev Singh case thus runs into an inconsistency and creates an illogical situation. 69. There is also another infirmity from which the view taken in Sodhi
Sukhdev Singh case suffers. Gajendragadkar, J. speaking on behalf of himself and the
other learned Judges observed that when an objection against the disclosure
of a document is raised under Section 123 , the court must first determine
the character of the document and if it comes to the conclusion that the
document relates to affairs of State, it should leave it to the head of the
department to decide whether he should permit its production or not. Now
even according to Gajendragadkar, J. and the other learned Judges, a
document can be said to relate to affairs of State only if it is a document
to such a character that its disclosure will injure public interest and
therefore the court would have to reach the conclusion that the disclosure
of the document will be injurious to public interest before it can find
that the document relates to affairs of State. If that be so, it is
difficult to understand, after the court has enquired into the objection
and come to the conclusion that disclosure of the document would be
injurious to public interest. What purpose would be served by reserving to
the head of the department the power to permit its disclosure, because the
question to be decided by him would practically be the same, namely,
whether disclosure of the document would be injurious to public interest -
a question already decided by the court. In other words, if injury to
public interest is the foundation of this immunity from disclosure, when
once the court has inquired into the question and found that the disclosure
of the document will injure public interest and therefore it is a document
relating to affairs of State, it would in most cases be a futile exercise
for the head of the department to consider and decide whether its
disclosure should be permitted as he would be making an enquiry into the
identical question. There may be a few rare cases where in regard to a
document which by reason of the class to which it belongs may be regarded
as relating to affairs of State, the head of the department may be able to
take the view that though it belongs to the noxious class, its disclosure
would not be injurious to public interest and therefore allow it to be
disclosed. But, by and large, once the court has found that the document is
of such a character that it disclosure will cause injury to public
interest, it would be futile to leave it to the head of the department to
decide whether he should permit its production or not. We are therefore
unable to accept the decision in Sodhi Singh case as laying down the correct law on this
point. The court would allow the objection if it finds that the document
relates to affairs of State and its disclosure would be injurious to public
interest, but on the other hand, if it reaches the conclusion that the
document does not relate to affairs of State or that the public interest
does not compel its non-disclosure or that the public interest in the
administration of justice in the particular case before it overrides all
other aspects of public interest, it will overrule the objection and order
disclosure of the document. The basic question to which the court would
therefore have to address itself for the purpose of deciding the validity
of the objection would be whether the document relates to affairs of State
or in other words, it is of such a character that its disclosure would be
against the interest of the State or the public service and if so, whether
the public interest in its non-disclosure is so strong that it must prevail
over the public interest in the administration of justice and on that
account, it should not be allowed to be disclosed. The final decision in
regard to the validity of an objection against disclosure raised under Section 123 would always be with the court by reason of Section 162 . 70. Now an objection against the disclosure of a document on the ground
that it relates to affairs of State may be made before the court either
because it would be against the interest of the State or the public service
to disclose its contents or because it belongs to a class of document which
in the public interest ought not to be disclosed, whether or not it would
be harmful to disclose the contents of the particular document. Where
immunity from disclosure is claimed on the ground that disclosure of the
contents of the document would be injurious to the interest of the State or
the public service it would not be difficult to decide the claim because it
would almost invariably be supported by an affidavit made either by the
Minister or by the head of the department and if the Minister or the head
of the department asserts that to disclose the contents of the document
"would or might do to the nation or the public service a grave injury, the
court will be slow to question his opinion or to allow any interest, even
that of justice, to prevail over it" unless there can be shown to exist
some factor suggesting either lack of good faith or an error of judgment or
an error of law on the part of the minister or the head of the department.
But, even in such cases it is now well settled that the court is not bound
by the statement made by the minister or the head of the department in the
affidavit and it retains the power to balance the injury to the State or
the public service against the risk of injustice, before reaching its
decision. Vide observations of Lord Scarman in Burmah Oil Co. Ltd. v. Bank
of England [1980] A.C. 1090. But the claim in the present case to withhold
disclosure of the correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the
Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India in regard
to continuance of S. N. Kumar is not based on the ground that the contents
of these particular documents are such that their disclosure would harm the
national interest or the interest of public service. The claim put forward
by the learned Solicitor-General on behalf of the Union of India is that
these documents are entitle to immunity from disclosure because they belong
to a class of documents which it would be against national interest or the
interest of the judiciary to disclose. It is settled law, and it was so
clearly recognised in Raj Narain case that there may be classes of documents which
public interest requires should not be disclosed, no matter what the
individual documents in those classes may contain or in other words, the
law recognises that there may be classes of documents which in the public
interest should be immune from disclosure. There is one such class of
documents which for years has been recognised by the law as entitled in the
public interest to be protected against disclosure and that class consists
of documents which it is really necessary for the proper functioning of the
public service to withhold from disclosure. The documents falling within
this class are granted immunity from disclosure not because of their
contents but because of the class to which they belong. This class included
cabinet minutes, minutes of discussions between heads of departments, high
level inter-departmental communications and dispatches from ambassadors
abroad (vide : Conway v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : 71. Now, one reason that is traditionally given for the protection of
documents of this class is that proper decisions can be made at high levels
of government only if there is complete freedom and candour in stating
facts, tendering advice and exchanging views and opinions and the
possibility that documents might ultimately be published might affect the
frankness and candour of those preparing them. This reason based on the
need for frankness and candour, though suggested by some judges, has not
found universal acceptance. In Conway v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973,
979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 (HL)) Lord Reid dismissed the
"candour argument" summarily at page 952 and Lord Upjohn pointed out at
page 993 that immunity of this class of documents against disclosure "has
nothing whatever to do with candour or uninhibited freedom of expression",
for it is not possible to believe" that any minister or any high level
military or civil servant would feel in the least degree inhibited in
expressing his honest views in the course of his duty on some subject, such
as even the personal qualifications and delinquencies, of some colleague,
by the thought that his observation might one day see the light of day."
Lord Morris of Borth-Y-Gest also said in the same case at page 957 : The candour argument has also not prevailed with judges and jurists in the
United States and it is interesting to note what Raoul Berger while
speaking about the immunity claimed by President Nixon against the demand
for disclosure of the Watergate Tapes, says in his book Executive Privilege
: A Constitutional Myth at page 264 : 72. There was also one other reason suggested by Lord Reid in Conway v.
Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874
(HL)) for according protection against disclosure to documents belonging to
this case : "To my mind", said the learned Law Lord : "the most important
reason is that such disclosure would create or fan ill-informed or captious
public or political criticism. The business of government is difficult
enough as it is, and no government could contemplate with equanimity the
inner working of the government machine being exposed to the gaze of those
ready to criticise without adequate knowledge of the background and perhaps
with some axe to grind." But this reason does not commend itself to us. The
object of granting immunity to documents of this kind is to ensure the
proper working of the government and not to protect the ministers and other
government servants from criticism however intemperate and unfairly based.
Moreover, this reason can have little validity in a democratic society
which believes in an open government. It is only through exposure of its
functioning that a democratic government can hope to win the trust of the
people. If full information is made available to the people and every
action of the government is bona fide and actuated only by public interest,
there need be no fear of "ill-informed or captious public or political
criticism". But at the same time it must be conceded that even in a
democracy, government at a high level cannot function without some degree
of secrecy. No minister or senior public servant can effectively discharge
the responsibility of his office if every document prepared to enable
policies to be formulated was liable to be made public. It is therefor in
the interest of the State and necessary for the proper functioning of the
public service that some protection be afforded by law to documents
belonging to this class. What is the measure of this protection is a matter
which we shall immediately proceed to discuss. 73. We have already pointed out that whenever an objection to the
disclosure of a document under Section 123 is raised, two questions fall
for the determination of the court, namely, whether the document relates to
affairs of State and whether its disclosure would, in the particular case
before the court, be injurious to public interest. The court in reaching
its decision on these two questions has to balance two competing aspects of
public interest, because the document being one relating to affairs of
State, its disclosure would cause some injury to the interest of the State
or the proper functioning of the public service and on the other hand if it
is not disclosed, the non-disclosure would thwart the administration of
justice by keeping back from the court a material document. There are two
aspects of public interest clashing with each other out of which the court
has to decide which predominates. The approach to this problem is admirably
set out in a passage from the judgment of Lord Reid in Conway v. Rimmer
[1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 (HL)) : 74. What should be the technology and methodology of this balancing task is
a matter which we shall presently examine. But, before we do so, it is
necessary to point out that class immunity is not confined merely to that
class of documents in respect of which non-disclosure is really necessary
for the proper functioning of the public service, though mostly it is in
respect of documents falling within this class that the claim for class
immunity is usually made. There is also another class of documents which
has always been recognised by the Court as entitled to the same immunity
and that class consists of documents evidencing the sources from which the
police obtain information. Now we agree with the learned counsel on behalf
of the petitioners that this immunity should not be lightly extended to any
other class of documents, but, at the same time, boundaries cannot be
regarded as immutably fixed. The principle is that whenever it is clearly
contrary to the public interest for a document to be disclosed, then it is
in law immune form disclosure. If a new class comes into existence to which
this principle applies, then that class would enjoy the same immunity. This
is the basis on which in Reg v. Lewes Justices, ex parte Home Secretary
[1973] A.C. 388, 412 : [1972] 2 All E.R. 1057(HL) (cited therein as Rogers
v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, Gaming Board for Great
Britain v. Rogers) the House of Lords extended this immunity to a new class
of documents, namely, all such documents as were supplied to the Gaming
Board and related to the "character, reputation and financial standing...
of the applicant". Lord Reid pointed out in that case that the claim for
protection made on behalf of the Gaming Board was not based on the contents
of the particular letter of which disclosure was sought by the appellant,
but it was "based on the fact that the Board cannot adequately perform
their statutory duty unless they can preserve the confidentiality of all
communications to them regarding the character, reputation or antecedents
of applicants for their consent" . The learned Law Lord posited the
question for consideration in the following words : "Here the question is
whether the withholding of this class of documents is really necessary to
enable the Board adequately to perform its statutory duties"and proceeded
to hold that" if there is not to be very serious danger of the Board being
deprived of information essential for the proper performance of their task,
there must be a general rule that they are not bound to produce any
document which gives information to them about any applicant" . Lord Morris
of Borth-Y-Gest also observed to the same effect at page 405 of the Report
:However honourable and public spirited a person might be, he would
undoubtedly feel somewhat inhibited in the future if he found that as a
result of his last response to a request for information he had himself
become a defendant or an accused. The test, however, is not in personal
terms. It rests upon a consideration of the necessities of the public
service arising out of the rather special duties and functions imposed and
recognised by Parliament. The House of Lords accordingly held that "on balance the public interest
clearly requires that documents of this kind should not be disclosed" and
thus upheld the claim of immunity in respect of the letter which gave
information to the Gaming Board about the character, reputation and
antecedents of the appellant. The question is whether immunity of this kind - what we have described as class immunity - should be extended to the
class of documents consisting of correspondence exchanged between the Law
Minister of other high level functionary of the Central Government, the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India in regard to
appointment or non-appointment of a High Court or Supreme Court Judge. 75. Now we may conveniently at this stage consider the question as to how a
claim for immunity against disclosure should be raised under Section 123 .
It is necessary to repeat and re-emphasize that this claim of immunity can
be justified made only, it is felt that the disclosure of the document
would be injurious to public interest. Where the State is a party to an
action in which disclosure of a document is sought by the opposite party,
it is possible that the decision to withhold the document may be influenced
by the apprehension that such disclosure may adversely affect the head of
the department or the department itself or the minister or even the
Government or that it may provoke public criticism or censure in the
legislature or in the Press, but it is essential that such considerations
should be totally kept out in reaching the decision whether or not to
disclose the document. So also the effect of the document on the ultimate
course of the litigation - whether its disclosure would hurt the State in
its defence - should have no relevance in making a claim for immunity
against disclosure. The sole and only consideration must be whether the
disclosure of the document would be determined to public interest in the
particular case before the Court. It has therefore been held since long
before Conway v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1
All E.R. 874 (HL)) was decided in England and since the decision in Sodhi
Sukhdev Singh case ( State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh , in India that a claim for
immunity against disclosure should be made by the minister who is the
political head of the department concerned or failing him, by the secretary
of the department and the claim should always be made in the form of an
affidavit. Where the affidavit is made by the secretary, the Court may in
an appropriate case require an affidavit of the minister concerned. The
affidavit should show that the document in question has been carefully read
and considered and the person making the affidavit has formed the view that
the document should not be disclosed either because of its actual contents
or because of the class of documents to which it belongs. If in a given
case no affidavit is filed or the affidavit filed is defective, the Court
may give an opportunity to the State to file a proper affidavit. The reason
is that the immunity against disclosure claimed under Section 123 is not a
privilege which can be waived by the State. It is an immunity which is
granted in order to protect public interest and therefore even if the State
has not filed an affidavit or the affidavit filed is not satisfactory, the
court cannot abdicate its duty of deciding whether the disclosure of the
document in question would be injurious to public interest and the document
should not therefore be allowed to be disclosed. That is why in England
this immunity is no longer described as "Crown Privilege" but is called
"public interest immunity". This aspect of the immunity was emphasized by
Lord Reid in Reg v. Lewes Justices, ex parte Home Secretary [1973] A.C.
388, 412 : [1972] 2 All E.R. 1057(HL) (cited therein as Rogers v. Secretary
of State for the Home Department, Gaming Board for Great Britain v. Rogers)
where the learned Law Lord observed that the expression 'Crown Privilege'
is wrong and may be misleading and there is no question of any privilege in
the ordinary sense of the word, as the real question is whether the public
interest requires that the document shall not be produced. Lord Simon of
Glaisdale also pointed out in the same case : "Crown privilege is a
misnomer and apt to be misleading. It refers to the rule that certain
evidence is inadmissible on the ground that its adduction would be contrary
to the public interest. . . it is not a privilege which may be waived by
the Crown or by anyone else" . It is therefore clear that if a document is
entitled to immunity against disclosure, it cannot be adduced in evidence
by either party and even if neither of the parties claims such immunity,
the Judge himself must take the objection, for the rule that the public
interest must not be put in jeopardy by the disclosure of a document which
would injure it, is one upon which the court should, if necessary, insist,
even though no objection has been taken by any party or by any Government
department. In Conway v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : 76. This being the correct legal position, it is immaterial whether in the
present case appropriate affidavit claiming immunity was filed on behalf of
the Union of India. The learned Attorney-General sought to tender on an
affidavit sworn by Burney, the then Secretary to the Home and Judiciary
Department claiming immunity against disclosure in respect of the
correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of
Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India in regard to the non-
appointment of S. N. Kumar but since the affidavit was sworn on September
7, 1981 and yet not tendered until September 16, 1981 even though the
arguments had begun long back, we expressed out displeasure at the delay in
filing the affidavit whereupon the learned Attorney-General stated that he
would not rely upon the affidavit. Therefore when the learned counsel for
S. N. Kumar sought answers to certain queries in regard to this
correspondence, the learned Attorney-General filed an affidavit sworn by T.
N. Chaturvedi, Secretary to the Home and Judiciary Department claiming
protection against disclosure of this correspondence, strong objection was
taken to the filing of this affidavit by the learned counsel on behalf of
the petitioners and S. N. Kumar on the ground that the learned Attorney-
General having made a statement that he would not rely upon previous
affidavit, it was not competent and in any event not proper for the Union
of India to file the affidavit of T. N. Chaturvedi which was almost in the
same terms as the previous affidavit. But we overruled this objection,
because, as would be clear from what we have discussed above, even if no
affidavit were filed earlier on behalf of the Union of India claiming
immunity against disclosure, the Union of India could always file an
affidavit claiming such immunity at any stage before the claim for immunity
was considered and decided by the court and once the claim for immunity was
raised, the court could also on its own direct the Union of India to file a
proper affidavit, if no such affidavit were already filed. We therefore
took the affidavit of T. N. Chaturvedi on file and allowed the Union of
India to rely upon it. We may point out that even if this affidavit had not
been filed, the Court would still have had to consider on the basis of the
other material before it including the nature of the correspondence whether
its disclosure would be injurious to public interest and hence it should
not be allowed to be disclosed. 77. We may also point out that we were invited to inspect for ourselves the
correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of
Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India for the purpose of deciding
whether that correspondence was entitled to immunity against disclosure.
Now the view taken in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case ( State of Punjab v. Sodhi
Sukhdev Singh , was that where an objection is raised the disclosure of a document
under Section 123 , the Court has no power to inspect the document under Section 162 for the purpose of deciding the objection. But with the
greatest respect to the learned Judges who decided that case, we do not
think this view is correct and in fact subsequent decisions of this Court
seem to be against it. So far as English Law is concerned it is now well
settled as a result of the decision of the House of Lords in Conway v.
Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874
(HL)) that there is a residual power in the Court to inspect the document
if the Court finds it necessary to do so for the purpose of deciding
whether on balance the disclosure of the document would cause greater
injury to public interest than its non-disclosure. Vide Conway v. Rimmer
[1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 (HL)) at
pages 953, 979, 981 and 993. This residual power of the court to inspect
the document has also been recognised in Australian Law by the decision of
the High Court of Australia in Sankey v. Whitlam (1978 21 Australion LR 505
: 53 ALJR 11). We do not see any reason why under Indian Law the Court
should be denied this residual power to inspect the document. It is true
that under Section 162 the Court cannot inspect the document if it relates
to affairs of State, but this bar comes into operation only if the document
is established to be one relating to affairs of State. If, however, there
is any doubt whether the document does relate to affairs of State, the
residual power which vests in the Court to inspect the document for the
purpose of determining whether the disclosure of the document would be
injurious to public interest and the document is therefore one relating to
affairs of State, is not excluded by Section 162 . This Court in fact held
in no uncertain terms in Raj Narain case ( State of U.P. v. Raj Narain , where an objection
against the disclosure of the Blue Book was taken on behalf of the State
under Section 123 , that if the Court was not satisfied with the affidavit
objecting to the disclosure of the document, the Court may inspect the
document. Ray, C.J. observed at two places while dealing with the objection
against the disclosure of the Blue Book under Section 123 that "If the
Court would yet like to satisfy itself the Court may see the document. This
will be the inspection of the document by the Court"and" if the Court in
spite of the affidavit wishes to inspect the document, the Court may do so" 78. Now as we have already pointed out above, it is for the court to decide
the claim for immunity against disclosure made under Section 123 by
weighing the competing aspects of public interest and deciding which, in
the particular case before the court, predominates. The court is not bound
by the affidavit made by the minister or the secretary because the minister
or the secretary would be concerned primarily and almost exclusively with
the assertion of the public interest which would be injured by the
disclosure of the document and he would have very little concern, if at
all, with the public interest in the fair administration of justice and in
fact he would not be in a position too appreciate and assess the relative
importance of the two competing public interests so as to be able to judge
as to which in the particular case before the Court should be allowed to
prevent. What should be the relative weight to be attached to each aspect
of public interest is a question which the court would be best qualified to
decide and not the minister or the secretary. That is why in Conway v.
Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 : Another aspect of that interest is seen in the need that impartial justice
should be done in the courts of law, not least between citizen and Crown,
and that a litigant who has a case to maintain should not be deprived of
the means of its proper presentation by anything less than a weighty public
reason. It does not seem to me unreasonable to expect that the court would
be better qualified than minister to measure the importance of such
principles in application to the particular case that is before it. Mathew, J. also observed to the same effect in his concurring opinion in Raj Narain case ( State of U.P. v. Raj Narain , : (SCC pp. 452-53, para 71)

The claim of the Executive to exclude evidence is more likely to operate to
subserve a partial interest, viewed exclusively from a narrow departmental
angle. It is impossible for it to see or give equal weight to another
angle. It is impossible for it to see or give equal weight to another
matter, namely, that justice should be done and seen to be done. When there
are more aspects of public interest to be considered, the Court will, with
reference to the pending litigation, be in a better position to decide
where the weight of public interest predominates.The court will therefore
have to put in the scales against the injury to public interest which may
be caused by the disclosure of the document, the likely injury to the cause
of injustice by non-disclosure and both will have to be assessed and
weighed and it will have to be determined on which side the balance tilts. 79. Now obviously the weight of the likely injury to the cause of justice
will vary according to the nature of the proceeding in which the disclosure
is sought, the relevance of the document and the degree of likelihood that
the document will be of importance in the litigation. The particular nature
of the proceeding and the importance of the document in the determination
of the issues arising in it are vital considerations to be taken into
account in determining what are the relevant aspects of public interest
which are to be weighed and what is the outcome of that weighing process.
Perhaps the most striking example of the way in which the nature of the
case will bear upon the judicial process of weighing aspects of public
interest is afforded by the well-recognised rule that where a document is
necessary to support the defence of an accused person whose liberty is at
stake in a criminal trial, it must be disclosed whatever be the nature of
the document, because, as observed by Lord Simon of Glaisdale in D v.
National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children [1977] 2 W.L.R.
207 : [1978] A.C. 171(HL)), "the public interest that no innocent man
should be convicted of crime is so powerful that it outweighs the general
public interest" which might be injured by the disclosure of the document. Lord Keith also emphasized the necessity of taking the particular nature of
the proceeding into account in the balancing process, when he said in
Glasgow Corporation v. Central Land Board (1956 SC 1 (HL), 20 : 1956 SLT 41) that "everything must depend on the particular circumstances of the
case. It is impossible to lay down broad and general rules." So also in
Sankey v. Whitlam (1978 21 Australian LR 505 : 53 ALJR 11) the High Court
of Australia pointed out that the character of the proceeding in which the
claim for immunity against disclosure is raised and the importance of the
document in the determination of the issues arising in the proceeding are
of extreme relevance in deciding which way the balance of public interest
lies. There, the question was whether in a proceeding alleging offences
against Mr. Whitlam, a former Prime Minister and others, certain papers and
documents which were relevant to the issues arising in the proceeding were
entitled to public interest immunity so as to be protected against
disclosure. The High Court of Australia negatived the claim for immunity
and in the course of his judgment, Stephen, J. laid the greatest stress on
the character of the proceeding and pointed out its triple significance in
the determination of the claim :First, it makes it very likely that, for
the prosecution to be successful, its evidence must include documents of a
class hitherto regarded as undoubtedly the subject of Crown privilege. But
then to accord privilege to such documents as a matter of course is to come
close to conferring immunity from conviction upon those who may occupy or
may have occupied high offices of State if proceeded against in relation to
their conduct in those offices. Those in whom resides the power ultimately
to decide whether or not to claim privilege will in fact be exercising a
far more potent power : by a decision to claim privilege dismissal of the
charge will be wellnigh ensured. Secondly, and assuming for the moment that
there should prove to be any substance in the present charges, their
character must raise doubts about the reasons customarily given as
justifying a claim to Crown privilege for classes of documents, being the
reasons in fact relied upon in this case. Those reasons, the need to
safeguard the proper functioning of the executive arm of government and of
the public service, seem curiously inappropriate when to uphold the claim
is to prevent successful prosecution of the charges : inappropriate because
what is charged is itself the grossly improper functioning of that very arm
of government and of the public service which assists it. Thirdly, the high
offices which were occupied by those charged and the nature of the
conspiracies sought to be attributed to them in those offices must make it
a matter of more than usual public interest that in the disposition of the
charges the course of justice be in no way unnecessarily impeded. For such
charges to have remained pending and unresolved for as long as they have is
bad enough; if they are now to be met with a claim to Crown privilege,
invoked for the protection of the proper functioning of the executive
government, some high degree of public interest for non-disclosure should
be shown before the privilege should be accorded.The nature of the
proceeding in which the claim for immunity arose was regarded as an
important factor influencing the decision of the court in rejecting the
claim and ordering production of the documents. It would thus seem clear
that in the weighing process which the court has to perform in order to
decide which of the two aspects of public interest should be given
predominance, the character of the proceeding, the issues arising in it and
the likely effect of the documents on the determination of the issues must
form vital considerations, for they would affect the relative weight to be
given to each of the respective aspects of public interest when placed in
the scales. 80. Bearing these observations in mind, we must now proceed to examine the
claim for immunity against disclosure in respect of the correspondence
between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and the
Chief Justice of India in regard to non-appointment of S. N. Kumar. It was
a class immunity which was claimed in respect of this correspondence and
the protected class was said to consist of correspondence between the Law
Minister or other high level functionary of the Central Government, the
Chief Justice of the High Court, the Chief Minister or the Law Minister of
the State Government and the Chief Justice of India in regard to
appointment or non-appointment of a High Court Judge or a Supreme Court
Judge or transfer of a High Court Judge and the notings made by these
constitutional functionaries in that behalf. The arguments was that the
documents belonging to this class are immune from disclosure, irrespective
of their contents, because it is in national interest and also necessary
for maintaining the dignity of the judiciary and preserving the confidence
of the people in the integrity of the judicial process that documents
belonging to this class should be withheld from disclosure. Now there are a
few prefatory remarks we would like to make before embarking upon an
examination of this argument. In the first place, it is necessary to bear
in mind that the burden of establishing a claim for class immunity is very
heavy on the person making the claim. Lord Reid pointed out in Reg v. Lewes
Justices, ex parte Home Secretary [1973] A.C. 388 : [1972] 2 All E.R.
1057(HL), see also footnote 32) that the speeches in Conway v. Rimmer
[1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 (HL)) made
it clear that there is a heavy burden of proof on any authority which makes
a claim for class immunity. The claim for class immunity is an
extraordinary claim because it is based not upon the contents of the
document in question but upon its membership of a class whatever be its
contents and therefore the court should be very slow in upholding such a
broad claim which is contradictory, if not destructive, of the concept of
open government. Secondly, it is true, as pointed out earlier, that classes
of documents to which the immunity may be accorded are not closed and in
the life of a fast-changing society rapidly growing and developing under
the impact of vast scientific and technological advances new class or
classes of documents may come into existence to which the immunity may have
to be granted in public interest, but that should only be as a highly
exceptional measure. It is only under the severest compulsion of the
requirement of public interest that the court may extend the immunity to
any other class or classes of documents and in the context of our
commitment to an open government with the concomitant right of the citizen
to know what is happening in the government, the court should be reluctant
to expand the classes of documents to which immunity may be granted. The
court must on the contrary move in the direction of attenuating the
protected class or classes of documents, because by and large secrecy is
the badge of an authoritarian government. We may point out once again,
though it be at the cost of repetition, that even in regard to documents
belonging to the class which has been judicially recognised as entitled to
immunity, the law must now be taken to be well settled that the immunity is
not absolute. The public interest in non-disclosure of a document belonging
to this class may in an appropriate case yield to the public interest that
in the administration of justice, the court should have the fullest
possible access to every relevant document and in that event, the document
would be liable to be disclosed even though it belongs to the protected
class. The executive cannot by merely invoking the scriptural formula of
class immunity defeat the cause of justice by withholding a document which
is essential to do justice between the parties, for otherwise the doctrine
of class immunity would become a frightful weapon in the hands of the
executive for burying its mistakes, covering up its inefficiencies and
sometimes even hiding its corruption. Every claim for immunity in respect
of a document, whatever be the ground on which the immunity is claimed and
whatever be the nature of the document, must stand scrutiny of the court
with reference to one and only one test, namely, what does public interest
require - disclosure or non-disclosure. The doctrine of class immunity is
therefore no longer impregnable; it does not any more deny judicial
scrutiny; it is no more a mantra to which the court pays obeisance.
Whenever class immunity is claimed in respect of a document, the court has
to weigh in the scales the one aspect of public interest which requires
that the document should not be disclosed against the other that the court
in performing its functions should not be denied access to relevant
document and decide which way the balance lies. And this exercise has to be
performed in the context of the democratic ideal of an open government. 81. If we approach the problem before us in the light of these
observations, it will be clear that the class of documents consisting of
the correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister or other high level
functionary of the Central Government, the Chief Justice of the High Court,
the State Government and the Chief Justice of India in regard to
appointment or non-appointment of a High Court Judge or Supreme Court Judge
or the transfer of a High Court Judge and the notes made by these
constitutional functionaries in that behalf cannot be regarded as a
protected class entitled to immunity against disclosure. It is undoubtedly
true that appointment or non-appointment of a High Court Judge or a Supreme
Court Judge and transfer of a High Court Judge are extremely important
matters affecting the quality and efficiency of the judicial institution
and it is therefore absolutely essential that the various constitutional
functionaries concerned with these matters should be able to freely and
frankly express their views in regard to these matters. But we do not think
that the candour and frankness of these constitutional functionaries in
expressing their views would be affected if they felt that the
correspondence exchanged between them would be liable to be disclosed in a
subsequent judicial proceeding. The constitutional functionaries concerned
in this exercise are holders of high constitutional offices such as the
Chief Justice of a High Court and the Chief Justice of India and it would
not be fair to them to say that they are made of such weak stuff that they
would hesitate to express their views with complete candour and frankness
if they apprehend subsequent disclosure. We have no doubt that high level
constitutional functionaries like the Chief Justice of a High Court and the
Chief Justice of India would not be deterred from performing their
constitutional duty of expressing their views boldly and fearlessly even if
they were told that the correspondence containing their views might
subsequently be disclosed. If, to quote the words of Lord Pearce in Conway
v. Rimmer [1968] A.C. 910, 952, 973, 979, 987, 993 : [1968] 1 All E.R. 874
(HL)) "there are countless teachers at schools and universities, countless
employers of labour, who write candid reports, unworried by the outside
chance of disclosure," there is no reason to suspect that high level
constitutional functionaries like the Chief Justice of a High Court and the
Chief Justice of India would flinch and falter in expressing their frank
and sincere views when performing their constitutional duty. We have
already dealt with the argument based on the need for candour and frankness
and we must reject it in its application to the case of holders of high
constitutional offices like the Chief Justice of a High Court and the Chief
Justice of India. Be it noted - and of this we have no doubt - that our
Chief Justices and Judges are made on sterner stuff; they have inherited a
long and ancient tradition of independence and impartiality; they are by
training and experience as also by their oath of office dedicated to the
cause of justice administered without fear or favour, affection or ill will
and in fact their is no power on earth which can deflect them from the path
of rectitude. They are, to quote the words from the famous verse from
Manasollasa and we find it difficult to believe that they would not act as
judges but as weak kneed and effete individuals afraid to express their
views lest they might come to be known to others and provoke criticism. The
Chief Justice of a High Court and the Chief Justice of India would
undoubtedly expect confidentiality while expressing their views but that is
no ground for upholding a claim for class immunity in respect of the
correspondence exchanged between them and the Central Government or the
State Government. Confidentiality is not a head of privilege and the need
for confidentiality of high level communications without more cannot
sustain a claim for immunity against disclosure. Vide : Science Research
Council v. Nasse [1980] A.C. 1028 [1979] 3 All E.R. 673(HL)) and
particularly the observations of Lord Scarman at pages 697 and 698. Even if
a document be confidential, it must be produced, notwithstanding its
confidentiality, if it is necessary for fairly disposing of the case,
unless it can be shown that its disclosure would otherwise be injurious to
public interest. 82. Now we fail to see how in cases of this kind where non-appointment of
an Additional Judge for a further term or transfer of a High Court Judge is
challenged, the disclosure of the correspondence exchanged between the Law
Minister, the Chief Justice of the High Court, the State Government and the
Chief Justice of India and the relevant notings made by them, could at all
said to be injurious to public interest. We have already pointed out above
that so far as non-appointment of an Additional Judge for a further term is
concerned, the only two grounds on which the decision not to appoint can be
assailed are : firstly, that there was no full and effective consultation
by the Central Government with the chief Justice of the High Court, the
State Government and the Chief Justice of India before reaching the
decision and secondly, that the decision is mala fide or based on
irrelevant considerations. Now obviously these two grounds cannot be made
good by a petitioner unless the correspondence between the Law Minister,
the Chief Justice of the High Court, the State Government and the Chief
Justice of India and the relevant notings made by them are disclosed, for
they alone would furnish the relevant evidence showing whether these two
grounds are satisfied or not. These documents would show or at least shed
light on the question whether there was full and effective consultation
between the Central Government on the one hand and the Chief Justice of the
High Court, the State Government and the Chief Justice of India on the
other, because, as already pointed out by us, such consultation would
ordinarily be in writing - as it ought to be - and they would also, in
cases where such consultation has taken place, indicate the reasons which
have weighed with the Central Government in reaching its decision. Apart
from these documents, there would be no other documentary evidence
available to the petitioner to establish that there was no full and
effective consultation or that the decision of the Central Government was
based on irrelevant considerations and if an affidavit is made by an
appropriate authority of the Central Government or by the Chief Justice of
the High Court or by the Chief Justice of India stating that every relevant
aspect of the question was discussed and there was full and effective
consultation, it would be wellnigh impossible for the petitioner to
successfully challenge the decision of the Central Government. It is only
through these documents that the petitioner can, if at all, hope to show
that there was no full and effective consultation by the Central Government
with the Chief Justice of the High Court, the State Government and the
Chief Justice of India or that the decision of the Central Government was
mala fide or based on irrelevant grounds and therefore, to accord immunity
against disclosure to these documents would be tantamount to summarily
throwing out the challenge against the discontinuance of the Additional
Judge. It would have the effect of placing the Union of India, whose
decision is challenged, in an unassailable - almost invincible - position
where it can, by claiming class immunity in respect of these documents,
ensure the rejection of the writ petition. The harm that would be caused to
the public interest in justice by the non-disclosure of these documents
would in the circumstances far outweigh the injury which may possibly be
caused by their disclosure, because the non-disclosure would almost
inevitably result in the dismissal of the writ petition and consequent
denial of justice even though the claim of the petitioner may be true and
just. Moreover, it may be noted that the discontinuance of an Additional
Judge by the Central Government is a serious matter and if such
discontinuance is mala fide or based on irrelevant grounds, it would tend
to affect the independence of the judiciary and it is therefore necessary
in order to maintain public confidence in the independent functioning of
the judiciary that the people should know whether the constitutional
requirements were complied with before the decision was taken not to
continue the Additional Judge and whether any oblique motivations or
irrelevant considerations influenced the Central Government in reaching
that decision. The charge against the Central Government in the first group
of present writ petitions was that there was no full and effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of India before the decision was
reached by the Central Government in regard to S. N. Kumar and in any
event, the decision of the Central Government was actuated by oblique or
improper motives. This was a serious charge against the Central Government
and there can be no doubt that it would be very much in public interest
that the necessary documents throwing light on the truth or otherwise of
this charge should be disclosed, so that the full facts may be known to the
public and the doubts raised and entertained about the influence of
extraneous factors in the case of S. N. Kumar should be resolved and
removed. It is significant to note that had there not been disclosure of
these documents, a certain doubt or misgiving would have continued to
prevail in the public mind that the decision to discontinue S. N. Kumar as
an Additional Judge was taken by the Central Government without full and
effective consultation of the Chief Justice of India and that this decision
was motivated by oblique or irrelevant considerations. But, as we shall
presently point out these documents when disclosed helped to clear this
doubt and remove this misgiving by explaining to the people what were the
true facts behind the decision to discontinue S. N. Kumar as an Additional
Judge. Furthermore, it may be noted that when the charge against the
Central Government is that it has discontinued S. N. Kumar as an Additional
Judge for oblique or improper reasons and thereby sought to interfere with
the independence of the judiciary, it would be singularly inappropriate to
exclude these documents which constitute the only evidence, if at all, for
establishing this charge, by saying that the disclosure of these documents
would impair the efficient functioning of the judicial institution. The
interest of the wider community in getting to the bottom of this charge is
so great that it cannot be allowed to be impeded by a mere rule of
evidence. Nor can the decision to admit or exclude be safely left to the
Central Government which is itself charged with wrongful or improper
conduct. 83. These selfsame reasons must apply equally in negativing the claim for
immunity in respect of the correspondence between the Law Minister and the
Chief Justice of India and the relevant notings made by them in regard to
the transfer of a High Court Judge including the Chief Justice of a High
Court. These documents are extremely material for deciding whether there
was full and effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India before
effecting the transfer and the transfer was made in public interest, both
of which are, according to the view taken by us, justiciable issues and the
non-disclosure of these documents would seriously handicap the petitioner
in showing that there was no full and effective consultation with the Chief
Justice of India or that the transfer was by way of punishment and not in
public interest. It would become almost impossible for the petitioner,
without the aid of these documents, to establish his case, even if it be
true. Moreover, the transfer of a High Court Judge or Chief Justice of a
High Court is a very serious matter and if made arbitrarily or capriciously
or by way of punishment or without public interest motivation, it would
erode the independence of the judiciary which is a basic feature of the
Constitution and therefore when such a charge is made, it is in public
interest that it should be fully investigated and all relevant documents
should be produced before the court so that the full facts may come before
the people, who in a democracy are the ultimate arbiters. It would be
plainly contrary to public interest to allow the inquiry into such a charge
to be baulked or frustrated by a claim for immunity in respect of documents
essential to the inquiry. It is also important to note that when the
transfer of a High Court Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court is
challenged, the burden of showing that there was full and effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the transfer was effected
in public interest is on the Union of India and it cannot withhold the
relevant documents in its possession on a plea of immunity and expect to
discharge this burden by a mere statement in an affidavit. Besides, if the
reason for excluding these documents is to safeguard the proper functioning
of the higher organs of the State including the judiciary, then that reason
is wholly inappropriate where what is charged is the grossly improper
functioning of those very organs. It is therefore obvious that, in a
proceeding where the transfer of a High Court Judge or Chief Justice of a
High Court is challenged, no immunity can be claimed in respect of the
correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister and the Chief Justice of
India and the notings made by them, since, on the balance, the non-
disclosure of these documents would cause greater injury to public interest
than what may be caused by their disclosure. 84. But, quite apart from these considerations, we do not understand how
the disclosure of the correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister,
the Chief Justice of the High Court, the State Government and the Chief
Justice of India and the relevant notes made by them in regard to non-
appointment of an Additional Judge for a further term or transfer of a High
Court Judge can be detrimental to public interest. It was argued by the
learned Solicitor-General on behalf of the Union of India that if the Chief
Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India differ in their
views in regard to the suitability of an Additional Judge for further
appointment, the disclosure of their views would cause considerable
embarrassment because the rival views might be publicly debated and there
might be captious and uninformed criticism which might have the effect of
undermining the prestige and dignity of one or the other Chief Justice and
shaking the confidence of the people in the administration of justice. If
the difference in the views expressed by the Chief Justice of the High
Court and the Chief Justice of India becomes publicly known, contended the
learned Solicitor-General, it might create a difficult situation for the
Chief Justice of the High Court vis-a-vis the Chief Justice of India and if
despite the adverse opinion of the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
Additional Judge is continued for a further term, and the Additional Judge
knows that he had been so continued overruling the view of the Chief
Justice of the High Court, it might lead to a certain amount of friction
which would be detrimental to the proper functioning of the High Court. So
also if an Additional Judge is continued for a further term accepting the
view expressed by the Chief Justice of the High Court and rejecting the
opinion of the Chief Justice of India, it would again create a piquant
situation because it would affect the image of the Chief Justice of India
in the public eyes. Moreover, a feeling might be created in the mind of the
public that a person who was regarded as unsuitable for judicial
appointment by one or the other of the two Chief Justices, has been
appointed as a Judge and the litigants would be likely to have reservations
about him and the confidence of the people in the administration of justice
would be affected. The learned Solicitor-General contended that for these
reasons it would be injurious to public interest to disclose the
correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of the
High Court and the Chief Justice of India. 85. We have given our most anxious thought to this argument urged by the
learned Solicitor-General, but we do not think we can accept it. We do not
see any reason why, if the correspondence between the Law Minister, the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India and the
relevant notes made by them, in regard to discontinuance of an Additional
Judge are relevant to the issues arising in a judicial proceeding, they
should not be disclosed. There might be difference of views between the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India but so long
as the views are held bona fide by the two Chief Justices, we do not see
why they should be worried about the disclosure of their views ? Why should
they feel embarrassed by public discussion or debate of the views expressed
by them when they have acted bona fide with the greatest care and
circumspection and after mature deliberation. Do Judges sitting on a
Division Bench not differ from each other in assessment of evidence and
reach directly contrary conclusions on questions of fact ? Do they not
express their judicial opinions boldly and fearlessly leaving it to the
jurists to decide which of the two differing opinions is correct ? If two
Judges do not feel any embarrassment in coming to different findings of
fact which may be contrary to each other, why should two Chief Justices
feel embarrassed if the opinions given by them in regard to the suitability
of an Additional Judge for further appointment differ and such differing
opinions are made known to the public. Not only tolerance but acceptance of
bona fide difference of opinion is a part of judicial discipline and we
find it difficult to believe that the disclosure of their differing
opinions might create a strain in the relationship between the Chief
Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India. We have no doubt
that the Chief Justice of the High Court would come to his own independent
opinion on the material before him and he would not surrender his judgment
to the Chief Justice of India, merely because the Chief Justice of India
happens to be head of the Judiciary having a large voice in the appointment
of Judges on the Supreme Court Bench. Equally we are confident that merely
because the Chief Justice of the High Court has come to a different opinion
and is not prepared to change that opinion despite the persuasion of the
Chief Justice of India, no offence would be taken by the Chief Justice of
India and he would not harbour any feeling of resentment against the Chief
Justice of the High Court. Both the Chief Justices have trained judicial
minds and both of them would have the humility to recognise that they can
be mistaken in their opinions. We do not therefore see any real possibility
of estrangements or even embarrassment for the two Chief Justices, if their
differing views in regard to the suitability of an Additional Judge for
further appointment are disclosed. We also find it difficult to agree that
if the differing views of the two Chief Justices become known to the
outside world, the public discussion and debate that might ensue might have
the effect of lowering the dignity and prestige of one or the other of the
two Chief Justices. When the differing views of the two Chief Justices are
made public as a result of disclosure, there would certainly be public
discussion and debate in regard to those views with some criticising one
view and some criticising the other, but that cannot be helped in a
democracy where the right of free speech and expression is a guaranteed
right and if the views have been expressed by the two Chief Justices with
proper care and deliberation and a full sense of responsibility in
discharge of a constitutional duty, there is no reason why the two Chief
Justices should worry about public criticism. We fail to see how such
public criticism could have the effect of undermining the prestige and
dignity of one or the other Chief Justice. So long as the two Chief
Justices have acted honestly and bona fide with full consciousness of the
heavy responsibility that rests upon them in matters of this kind, we do
not think that any amount of public criticism can affect their prestige and
dignity. But if either of the two Chief Justices has acted carelessly or
improperly or irresponsibly or out of oblique motive, his view would
certainly be subjected to public criticism and censure and that might show
him in poor light and bring him down in the esteem of the people, but that
will be the price which he will have to pay for his remissness in discharge
of his constitutional duty. No Chief Justice or Judge should be allowed to
hide his improper or irresponsible action under the clock of secrecy. If
any Chief Justice or Judge has behaved improperly or irresponsibly or in a
manner not befitting the high office he holds, there is no reason why his
action should not be exposed to public gaze. We believe in an open
government and openness in government does not mean openness merely in the
functioning of the executive arm of the State. The same openness must
characterise the functioning of the judicial apparatus including judicial
appointments and transfers. Today the process of judicial appointments and
transfer is shrouded in mystery. The public does not know how Judges are
selected and appointed or transferred and whether any and if so what,
principles and norms govern this process. The exercise of the power of
appointment and transfer remains a sacred ritual whose mystery is confined
only to a handful of high priests, namely, the Chief Justice of the High
Court, the Chief Minister of the State, the Law Minister of the Central
Government and the Chief Justice of India in case of appointment or non-
appointment of a High Court Judge and the Law Minister of the Central
Government and the Chief Justice of India in case of appointment of a
Supreme Court Judge or transfer of a High Court Judge. The mystique of this
process is kept secret and confidential between just a few individuals, not
more than two or four as the case may be, and the possibility cannot
therefor be ruled out that howsoever highly placed may be these
individuals, the process may on occasions result in making of wrong
appointments and transfers and may also at times, though fortunately very
rare, lend itself to nepotism, political as well as personal and even
trade-off. We do not see any reason why this process of appointment and
transfer of Judges should be regarded as so sacrosanct that no one should
be able to pry into it and it should not be protected against disclosure at
all events and in all circumstances. Where it becomes relevant in a
judicial proceeding, why should the Court and the opposite party and
through them, the people not know what are the reasons for which a
particular appointment is made or a particular Additional Judge is
discontinued or a particular transfer is effected. We fail to see what harm
can be caused by the disclosure of true facts when they become relevant in
a judicial proceeding. In fact, the possibility of subsequent disclosure
would act as an effective check against carelessness, impetuosity,
arbitrariness or mala fides on the part of the Central Government, the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India and ensure
bona fide and correct approach, objective and dispassionate consideration,
mature thought and deliberation and proper application of mind on their
part in discharging their constitutional duty in regard to appointments and
transfers of Judges. It is true that if the views expressed by the Chief
Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India in regard to the
suitability of an Additional Judge for further appointment become known to
the public, they might reflect adversely on the competence, character or
integrity of the Additional Judge, but the Additional Judge cannot
legitimately complain about it, because it would be at his instance that
the disclosure would be ordered and the views of the two Chief Justices
made public. If the Additional Judge is appointed for a further term either
accepting the opinion expressed by the Chief Justice of the High Court in
preference to that of the Chief Justice of India or vice versa, the
question of disclosure of differing opinions of the two Chief Justices
would not arise, because no one would know that the two Chief Justices
would not agreed on continuing the Additional Judge for a further term and
therefor, ordinarily, there would be no challenge to the appointment of the
Additional Judge. It is only if the Additional Judge is not continued for a
further term that he or someone on his behalf may challenge the decision of
the Central Government nor to continue him and in that event, if he asks
for disclosure of the relevant correspondence embodying the views of the
two Chief Justices, and if such disclosure is ordered, he has only himself
to thank for it and in any event, in such a case, there would be no harm
done to public interest if the views expressed by the two Chief Justices
become known to the public. 86. We are therefore of the view that, in the two groups of writ petitions
which are before us, the injury which would be caused to the public
interest in administration of justice by non-disclosure of the
correspondence between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the
Chief Justice of India and the relevant nothings made by them in regard to
non-appointment of S. N. Kumar and the correspondence between the Law
Minister and the Government of India and the relevant nothings made by them
in regard to transfer of the Chief Justice of Patna, far outweighs the
injury which may, if at all, be caused to the public interest by their
disclosure and hence these documents were liable to be disclosed in
response to the demand of the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the
petitioners and S. N. Kumar. There were the reasons for which we directed
by out Order dated October 16, 1981 that these documents be disclosed to
the petitioners and S. N. Kumar. Facts of S. N. Kumar's case : Whether full & effective consultation 87. That takes us to the next question as to whether there was full and
effective consultation between the President which means the Central
Government on the one hand and the Chief Justice of India on the other. Article 217 provides that every Judge of the High Court shall be appointed
by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the
Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High Court. We have
already rejected the contention urged on behalf of the respondents that the
requirement of consultation is necessary only where a person is being
appointed a Judge of the High Court and not where a decision is taken not
to appoint him. We have, of course, made it clear that where the name of a
person is proposed for appointment as a Judge of the High Court for the
first time, he, having no right to be considered for such appointment, is
not entitled to insist that the proposal for his appointment, whether
initiated by the Chief Justice of the High Court or the State Government or
the Chief Justice of India, should be subjected to the process of
consultation set out in Article 217 and his name can be dropped without any
such consultation. But, as pointed out by us in an earlier portion of the
judgment, the position in different in case of an Additional Judge, for
though an Additional Judge has no right, on the expiration of his term, to
be appointed an Additional Judge for a further term or to be appointed a
permanent Judge, he has still a right to be considered for such appointment
and the Central Government has to decide whether or not to appoint him
after consultation with the three constitutional functionaries mentioned in Article 217. Here, in the present case, Shri S. N. Kumar was an Additional
Judge whose term expired on June 6, 1981 and he was entitled to be
considered for appointment as an Additional Judge for a further term and
the Central Government certainly could, after considering his name, decide
in the bona fide exercise of its power, not to appoint him, but that could
be done only after consultation with the three constitutional functionaries
specified in Article 217 which included the Chief Justice of India. It
therefore becomes necessary to consider whether the Central Government
arrived at its decision not to appoint Shri S. N. Kumar as an Additional
Judge for a further term after consultation with the Chief Justice of
India. We have already discussed the true nature and scope of consultation
required under Article 217 and pointed out that the consultation
contemplated by that article is full and effective consultation where the
relevant facts bearing upon appointment or non-appointment are brought to
the notice of the Central Government and the three constitutional
functionaries required to be consulted and the opinion of each of the three
constitutional functionaries is taken on identical material and then a
decision is reached by the Central Government whether or not to appoint the
person concerned as a Judge, whether additional or permanent. Now Article
217 does not require that any particular procedure should be followed for
full and effective consultation nor does it insist that the relevant facts
on which the final decision of the Central Government is based should be
conveyed to the other three constitutional functionaries in any particular
manner or by the Central Government itself. What is necessary to ensure
full and affective consultation within the meaning of Article 217 is that
the Central Government as well as each of the three constitutional
functionaries required to be consulted "must have for its consideration
full and identical facts which can at once constitute both the source and
foundation of the final decision" (supra para 30) and it is immaterial as
to how such "full and identical facts" are conveyed by one authority to the
other. It is sufficient compliance with the constitutional requirement of Article 217 if the selfsame facts on which the final decision is taken by
the Central Government are placed before each of the three constitutional
functionaries required to be consulted and their opinion is taken on the
basis of such facts whatever be the manner in which those facts are brought
to their notice. Let us examine whether in the present case this
constitutional requirement was satisfied before the decision was taken by
the Central Government not to appoint S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge
for a further term or to paraphrase it in the context of the controversy
raised on behalf of the petitioners, whether the full and identical facts
on which the decision was taken by the Central Government were placed
before the Chief Justice of India. 88. The unfortunate drama leading to the non-appointment of S. N. Kumar as
an Additional Judge for a further term beings with the letter dated
February 19, 1981 addressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law
Minister. This letter was written by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law
Minister, because the term for which S. N. Kumar was originally appointed
as an Additional Judge was due to expire on March 6, 1981. The Chief
Justice of Delhi pointed out in this letter that the arrears pending in the
Delhi High Court undoubtedly justified the appointment of Additional Judges
but he was not in a position to recommend the "extension for Justice Kumar" 89. Now where the Chief Justice of the High Court is reasonably satisfied
after the greatest care and circumspection exercised by him as the holder
of a high constitutional office to whom the Constitution has assigned an
important function and in whom it has reposed a sacred trust, that the
Additional Judge in regard to whose suitability he has to give opinion,
does not enjoy good reputation for integrity, he obviously cannot recommend
such Additional Judge for further appointment. It is possible that the
Chief Justice of the High Court may go wrong in a given case and arrive at
an erroneous opinion in regard to the suitability of an Additional Judge
for appointment for a further term an that may result in injustice to the
Additional Judge who may suffer by reason of such erroneous opinion but
that cannot be helped because ultimately some constitutional functionary
has go to be entrusted with the task of assessing the suitability of the
person to be appointed an Additional Judge or a permanent Judge and no
better person can be found for this purpose than the Chief Justice of the
High Court. The Chief Justice of the High Court may err in his assessment
as any one else may, fallibility being the attribute of every human being.
But that is a risk which has necessarily to be taken and it cannot be
avoided howsoever perfect may be the mechanism which human ingenuity can
evolve. It may happen that the Chief Justice of the High Court, not being
aware that the Additional Judge whose term is about to expire does not
enjoy good reputation for integrity may recommended his name for
appointment for a further term though he is clearly unsuitable for such
appointment and equally it may happen that on the basis of the information
available with him which information may be incorrect, the Chief Justice of
the High Court may come to the opinion that the Additional Judge whose
suitability he is called upon to consider does not possess good reputation
for integrity though in fact he is a person of sterling character and
possess a high degree of honesty and integrity. These errors are inevitable
in every process of assessment and the Constitution has sought to minimise
them by entrusting the task of assessment to a high dignitary like the
Chief Justice of the High Court who would be expected to act with a high
sense of responsibility and, who by reason of training and experience,
would be able to sift the grain from the chaff and arrive at a correct
opinion on the material before him. 90. We might also at this stage refer to one contention seriously pressed
on behalf of the petitioners, namely, that what would be material to
consider for the purpose of assessing the suitability of an Additional
Judge for further appointment would be not whether the Additional Judge
enjoys good reputation for honesty and integrity but whether in fact he
possesses honesty and integrity. The argument of the petitioners was that
if the Additional Judge has the hallmark of honesty and integrity "he
cannot be removed or dropped because unconfirmed reports say that he is
lacking in honesty and integrity", for otherwise" the reputation of every
Judge would be at the mercy of rumours, gossips and unconfirmed reports" .
We do no think this argument is well founded. In the first place, it must
be remembered that when the Chief Justice of the High Court is called upon
to give his opinion in regard to the suitability of an Additional Judge for
further appointment, he is not required to adjudicate upon various matters
bearing upon his suitability and to come to a definitive finding or
conclusion in regard to such matters. Where the complaint against an
Additional Judge is in regard to his integrity, the Chief Justice of the
High Court is not expected to hold a judicial or quasi-judicial inquiry for
the purpose of adjudicating whether the Additional Judge is, in fact,
lacking in honesty and integrity. Such an inquiry against a Judge whether
Additional or permanent would not be permissible except in a proceeding for
his removal. What the Chief Justice of the High Court has to do is merely
to assess the suitability of the Additional Judge for further appointment
and where lack of integrity is alleged against him, the assessment can only
be on the basis of his reputation for integrity. The point we are making
will become abundantly clear if we take the case of a member of the Bar or
the seniormost District Judge who is for the first time considered for
appointment as an Additional or permanent Judge. The integrity of the
person under consideration would undoubtedly be a relevant factor to be
taken into account, but in assessing such factor the Chief Justice of the
High Court would not be expected to hold a judicial or quasi-judicial
inquiry for the purpose of determining whether the person concerned does,
in fact, possess honesty and integrity or is lacking in these qualities.
The Chief Justice of the High Court would have to proceed on the basis of
the reputation for honesty and integrity enjoyed by the person under
consideration and if, on the basis of the information gathered by him, the
Chief Justice of the High Court comes to the view that such person does not
enjoy good reputation for integrity, the Chief Justice of the High Court
would be justified in not recommending such person for appointment. Where a
question of honesty and integrity of a Judge is concerned, it is almost
impossible to come to a conclusive determination whether he is lacking in
integrity or not, because experience shows that most persons are not
willing to speak if they know that they may be quoted and that in any event
they are not prepared to testify in any judicial or quasi-judicial inquiry.
It is therefore not enough in order to be able to recommend a person for
appointment as a Judge to say that there is no proof of lack of integrity
against him, because, if such were the test to be applied, there would be
grave danger of persons lacking in integrity being appointed as Judges. The
test which must be applied for the purpose of assessing the suitability of
a person for appointment as a Judge must be whether the Chief Justice of
the High Court or for the matter of that, any other constitutional
authority concerned in the appointment, is satisfied about the integrity of
the person under consideration. If the person under consideration does not
enjoy reputation for honesty and integrity, it would not be possible for
the Chief Justice of the High Court to say that he is satisfied about the
integrity of such person and in such an event, the Chief Justice of the
High Court would be justified in not recommending such person for
appointment : in fact, it would be his duty not to recommend such person.
The public injury which may be caused by appointment of a Judge lacking in
integrity would be infinitely more than the public injury which may result
from non-appointment of a competent Judge possessing integrity. If
therefore the Chief Justice of Delhi found on inquiries made by him that
some of the complaints made against S. N. Kumar were not without basis and
doubts about the integrity of S. N.Kumar were expressed by responsible
members of the Bar as also by some of his own colleagues, the Chief Justice
of Delhi could not be said to be unjustified in writing the letter dated
February 19, 1981 declining to recommend S. N. Kumar for appointment as an
Additional Judge for a further term. We may once again repeat that this
assessment of S. N. Kumar by the Chief Justice of Delhi may have been
erroneous and, as we shall point out a little later, the Chief Justice of
India took the view that it was erroneous, but on no account can lack of
bona fides be attributed to the Chief Justice of Delhi. On the bona fide
view taken by him, the Chief Justice of Delhi did what it was his plainest
duty in the circumstances to do. 91. There was also one other argument urged on behalf of the petitioner
which we might conveniently dispose of at this stage, since it is an
argument closely allied to the one which we have just discussed and
rejected. The petitioners contended that fair play and justice required
that before an Additional Judge is dropped on the ground that he is lacking
in integrity or that he does not enjoy good reputation for integrity, he
must have an opportunity of showing cause against such a serious imputation
made against his honour and integrity. This contention is also in our
opinion without merit and the answer to it is provided by what we have
already discussed above. What the Chief Justice of the High Court is
require to do is to give his opinion in regard to the suitability of the
Additional Judge for further appointment and he has therefore to consider
various matters relevant to the question of appointment and give his
opinion to the President. He does not hold a judicial or quasi-judicial
inquiry into the honour and integrity of the Additional Judge nor does he
arrive at any conclusive finding or determination. He merely gives his
personal opinion in regard to the suitability of the Additional Judge in
discharge of the constitutional duty laid upon him and there is therefore
no question of any opportunity being afforded to the Additional Judge
before the Chief Justice of the High Court arrives at his opinion. When the
Chief Justice of the High Court gives his opinion, it is a confidential
communication which would not ordinarily be known to the public and in the
case of S. N. Kumar too, but for the disclosure of documents vehemently
pressed and passionately sought not only by the counsel for the petitioners
but also by the counsel for S. N. Kumar, the world would never have known
that the Chief Justice of Delhi has given an adverse opinion against the
continuance of S. N. Kumar on the ground that his integrity was doubtful.
It is obvious that in cases of this kind where the Chief Justice of the
High Court gives his personal opinion or assessment on consultation by the
President, there is neither adjudication nor condemnation and hence there
is no basis or justification for importing the requirement of fair play or
natural justice. 92. When a copy of this letter dated February 19, 1981 was received by the
Chief Justice of India, he took the view that what was stated in the letter
was "took vague to accept that Shri Kumar lacks integrity" and he therefore
stated in a note dated March 3, 1981 submitted by him to the Central
Government that he "would like to look carefully into the charges against
Shri S. N. Kumar" and recommended extension of the term of S. N. Kumar by
six months. The reason which prevailed with the Chief Justice of India in
recommending extension of the term of S. N. Kumar for six months was two-
fold. In the first place, he felt that since he had recommended extension
of the term of O. N. Vohra by six months and O. N. Vohra was senior to S.
N. Kumar, the interests of propriety required that the term of S. N. Kumar
should also be extended by six months and secondly, he desired to look
carefully into the charges against S. N. Kumar before deciding whether to
recommend his further appointment or not. Now having regard to the scope
and purpose of Article 224 which we have discussed in some detail in an
earlier portion of this judgment, it is clear that the Chief Justice of
India misconceived the true legal position when he recommended extension of
S. N. Kumar for a period of six months in order to enable him to look
carefully into the charges against S. N. Kumar. We have already pointed out
that on a true interpretation of Article 224 no short-term appointment of
an Additional Judge can be made for the purpose of enabling the
constitutional authorities to examine and decide whether the complaints or
charges against the Additional Judge are justified or not, so that if the
complaints or charges are found to be not without basis, the constitutional
authorities may advise the Central Government not to appoint the Additional
Judge for a further term. We have held that such short-term appointment
being for a purpose other than that warranted by Article 224 , would be
outside the scope and ambit of that Article. But even so the Chief Justice
of India recommended, though constitutionally it was impermissible to do
so, that the appointment of S. N. Kumar be extended for a further term of
six months in order that he should in the meantime be able to examine
carefully the charges against S. N. Kumar. The Law Minister thereupon
submitted a note to the Prime Minister on March 3, 1981 pointing out that
the letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi dated February 19, 1981 made a
serious complaint against the integrity of S. N. Kumar but he did not
propose to go into the merits of the case at that stage since he was
suggesting a short extension of three months for S. N. Kumar. But while so
stating, he added that he strong felt that in matters of this nature, "the
views of the Chief Justice" of the High Court "are paramount as it is in
his association that the Judge concerned discharges his duties"yet" out of
sheer reverence to the views of the Chief Justice of India" he proposed
that the term of S. N. Kumar as Additional Judge be extended for three
months. Thus, while the Chief Justice of India recommended extension of the
term of S. N. Kumar for six months, the Law Minister proposed an extension
for only three months, presumably because he took the view that whatever
inquiries are to be made in regard to the complaints and doubts against S.
N. Kumar should be carried out as quickly as possible and the decision on
such a sensitive issue as to whether an Additional Judge should be
continued or nor should not be unduly delayed. The result was that S. N.
Kumar was appointed as an Additional Judge for a period of three months
from March 7, 1981. 93. The Law Minister thereafter addressed a letter dated March 19, 1981 to
the Chief Justice of Delhi drawing his attention to the observations made
by the Chief Justice of India in regard to his earlier letter dated
February 19, 1981 and requesting him that in the light of those
observations he should offer his "further comments on the question of
continuance or otherwise" of S. N. Kumar. The Law Minister stated that
since the term of S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge was expiring on June
6, 1981, he would be grateful if the Chief Justice of Delhi could send his
comments so as to reach him latest by April 15, 1981. This communication
addressed by the Law Minister to the Chief Justice of Delhi shows clearly
beyond any doubt that the Law Minister was not party to any conspiracy for
discontinuing S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge. Since the Chief Justice
of India had observed that the letter dated February 19, 1981 addressed by
the Chief Justice of Delhi was too vague to form the basis of an opinion
that S. N. Kumar was lacking in integrity, the Law Minister naturally asked
the Chief Justice of Delhi to offer his further comments in answer to this
remark of the Chief Justice of India. It appears that the Chief Justice of
India also addressed a letter dated March 14, 1981 to the Chief Justice of
Delhi asking him, with reference to the observations made by him in his
letter dated February 19, 1981, to furnish "details and concrete facts in
regard to the allegations against Justice Kumar" . The Chief Justice of
Delhi thereupon met the Chief Justice of India and had discussion with him
on March 26, 1981. There was considerable controversy between the parties
as to what were precisely the facts which were discussed between the Chief
Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India at this meeting, but the
subsequent correspondence exchanged between the Law Minister, the Chief
Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India throws considerable light
on this controversy and we must therefore proceed to examine it. It appears
that subsequent to this meeting held on March 26, 1981, the Chief Justice
of Delhi addressed a letter dated March 28, 1981 to the Chief Justice of
India recording that since receipt of the letter of the Chief Justice of
India dated March 14, 1981, the Chief Justice of Delhi had had an
opportunity "to discuss this delicate matter" with the Chief Justice of
India and observing, to quote the exact words used by Chief Justice of
Delhi :There were three points mentioned in my D. O. No. 275-HCJ/PPS, dated
February 19, 1981, addressed to the Law Minister, a copy of which was
forwarded to you. I had also mentioned in that letter that I have no
investigating agency to conclusively find out whether the complaints are
genuine or not. Understandably there will be some who would support the
allegations and there will be some who would refute them. Therefore, it is
natural that there may be variance between the views that may be expressed
by different people. Indeed, my experience is that people are hesitant in
speaking out frankly. With regard to the complaints about Justice Kumar's integrity and general
conduct, the matter has already been discussed between us. About Justice
Kumar not being very helpful in disposing of cases, I enclose a statement
of disposal by Justice Kumar in 1980. Just by way of comparison I have also
included the figures of disposal in the same period of my other two
colleagues whose cases for reappointment are under consideration. The Chief Justice of Delhi also addressed a letter dated March 28, 1981 to
the Law Minister pointing out that since receipt of the letter of the Chief
Justice of India, he had had an opportunity "to discuss the entire matter
in detail with the Chief Justice of India" and that after this discussion
he had addressed a letter dated March 28, 1981 to the Chief Justice of
India, a copy of which was being enclosed by him. The Chief Justice of
Delhi then proceeded to add in this letter addressed to the Law Minister : 94. This was followed by a letter dated April 15, 1981 addressed by the Law
Minister to the Chief Justice of Delhi. We have already pointed out that
since what was stated in the letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi dated
February 19, 1981 was vague, the Law Minister had, by his letter dated
March 19, 1981 requested the Chief Justice of Delhi to offer further
comments in support of his recommendation against the discontinuance of S.
N. Kumar. The only reply with the Law Minister got from the Chief Justice
of Delhi was that the Chief Justice of Delhi had met and discussed the
entire matter in detail with the Chief Justice of India and removed the
objection based on vagueness by giving him "details and concrete facts" in
regard to the allegations against S. N. Kumar. But the Law Minister was not
informed as to what was discussed between the Chief Justice of Delhi and
the Chief Justice of India and what were the "details and concrete facts" 95. Now we come to a very important letter which formed the subject-matter
of bitter controversy between the parties. This was a letter dated May 7,
1981 addressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law Minister in
response to the request contained in the letter of the Law Minister dated
April 15, 1981. The Chief Justice of Delhi by his letter supplied to the
Law Minister the material on which his opinion against the continuance of
S. N. Kumar was based. This letter contained at the top the words "Secret
(for personal attention only)". It contained in the second paragraph a
prefatory statement by way of preamble to the facts set out in the
subsequent paragraphs. This prefatory statement is extremely important and
it may be set out in extenso in the following words : 96. There is also inherent evidence in the letter dated May 7, 1981, to
show that the Chief Justice of Delhi acted bona fide in giving his opinion
to the Law Minister in regard to the integrity of S. N. Kumar. the Law
Minister had by his letter dated April 15, 1981 requested the Chief Justice
of Delhi to send his comments on the complaint made by one Sabir Hussain,
an advocate. The Chief Justice of Delhi after examining the relevant files
in regard to this complaint intimated to the Law Minister by his letter
dated May 7, 1981 that the complaint related to a suit which was disposed
of by S. N. Kumar and it was therefore a matter which could be commented
upon only judicially. The Chief Justice of Delhi adopted a correct approach
in regard to this complaint and did not betray any undue enthusiasm to
condemn S. N. Kumar. If the Chief Justice of Delhi were actuated by any
mala fides against S. N. Kumar, he would have immediately seized upon this
complaint and tried to utilise it for the purpose of supporting his opinion
against the integrity of S. N. Kumar. We may point out that the Chief
Justice of Delhi was perfectly right in not sitting in judgment over the
decision given by S. N. Kumar in Sabir Hussain's suit, for it is not open
to the Chief Justice of a High Court to examine the judgments given by an
Additional Judge and pass upon the quality of those judgments for the
purpose of deciding whether the Additional Judge should be reappointed or
not. This exercise is not open to the Chief Justice of the High Court or to
the Chief Justice of India because the Additional Judge is not on probation
and that is why we are constrained to observe though the case of O. N.
Vohra not being before us, it is not necessary for us to do so, that the
Chief Justice of Delhi was not justified in wading through the papers of
Kissa Kursi Ka case ( V. C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Administration ), for the purpose of deciding whether O. N. Vohra should be
reappointed as an Additional Judge. If O. N. Vohra was in error in not
disposing of any application in the case or in making a wrong order on such
application, it was for this Court in appeal, in the exercise of its
judicial power, to comment on the judicial performance of O. N. Vohra and
it was not for the Chief Justice of Delhi to sit in judgment over it for
the purpose of condemning O. N. Vohra. 97. We may point out that the Chief Justice of Delhi also referred in his
letter dated May 7, 1981 to the low disposals of S. N. Kumar as also to his
unsatisfactory behaviour with the members of the Bar. But these allegations
need not detain us because the discontinuance of S. N. Kumar as an
Additional Judge by the President was not based on these allegations but it
was founded only on the opinion expressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi in
regard to the integrity of S. N. Kumar. 98. Now we come to a most important part of the controversy between the
parties. The letter dated May 7, 1981 addressed by the Chief Justice of
Delhi to the Law Minister carried at the top the remark, "Secret (for
personal attention only)". Now before this letter was sent by the Chief
Justice of Delhi, to the Law Minister, he had informed the Law Minister to
treat it as secret but at that time the Law Minister did not try to probe
into the implications of this request. Later, however, when the Chief
Justice of Delhi with reference to the letter proposed to be written by him
in regard to the continuance of O. N. Vohra, requested that, that letter
also should be kept secret for personal attention only, the Law Minister
asked him as to what exactly he meant by the remark "Secret (for personal
attention only)" in the letter dated May 7, 1981. The Chief Justice of
Delhi in reply intimated to the Law Minister that what he meant was that
that letter should not be brought to the notice of the Chief Justice of
India and for three very good reasons, namely : The Chief Justice of Delhi also informed the Law Minister that "he could
not afford to spoil his relations with the Chief Justice of India on the
one hand and on the other could not desist from expressing without fear or
favour what he felt of certain matters"and if he was" going to be suspect
for discharging his functions fairly and conscientiously, then his
functioning as the Chief Justice would never be smooth vis-a-vis Chief
Justice of India" . The Law Minister placed this conversation on record in
a note made by him on May 19, 1981 as also in a letter dated May 29, 1981
addressed by him to the Chief Justice of Delhi. Pursuant to this request
made by the Chief Justice of Delhi, the Law Minister did not place the
letter dated May 7, 1981 before the Chief Justice of India. 99. Though the Chief Justice of India had stated in his note dated March 3,
1981 that he would like to go carefully into the charges against S. N.
Kumar and he had a meeting with the Chief Justice of Delhi on March 26,
1981 in that connection, he did not write to the Law Minister until the 3rd
week of May 1981 giving his opinion in regard to the question whether S. N.
Kumar should be continued or not. Meanwhile, the time fixed by this Court
for the Union of India to decide whether S. N. Kumar should be reappointed
for a further term as an Additional Judge or should be appointed as a
permanent Judge or otherwise, was expiring on May 27, 1981 and the Law
Minister was therefore constrained to address a letter dated May 21, 1981
reminding the Chief Justice of India that he had stated in his note dated
March 3, 1981 that he desired to look carefully into the charges against S.
N. Kumar and requesting him that if he had made any inquiries, the Law
Minister "would be grateful to have the details" and also pressing him to
give his "urgent advice in regard to the continuance or otherwise" of the
term of S. N. Kumar. It appears that this letter was received by the Chief
Justice of India when he was camping at Simla during the summer vacation
and on receipt of this letter, the Chief Justice of India addressed a
communication dated May 22, 1981 to the Law Minister stating that he had
made the most careful and extensive inquiries in regard to the allegations
against the integrity of S. N. Kumar as also his rate of disposals and he
was satisfied that there was no substance in any of these allegations. The
Chief Justice of India pointed out that it was a common practice in the
Delhi High Court that even after allocation of a Judge was changed from the
original side to the appellate side and vice-versa, he continued to take up
the part-heard cases on which sufficient amount of time had already been
spent and S. N. Kumar therefore did nothing out of the way or unusual in
taking up part-heard cases after the allocation of his work was changed.
The Chief Justice of India observed that, on inquiries made by him, he
disagreed with the view taken by the Chief Justice of Delhi that S. N.
Kumar was either slow in his disposals or his integrity was doubtful and
stated that it was not possible for him to agree that the term of S. N.
Kumar should not be extended for the reasons mentioned by the Chief Justice
of Delhi. Not one member of the Bar or Bench, said the Chief Justice of
India, doubted the integrity of S. N. Kumar and on the contrary, some of
them stated that he was a man of unquestioned integrity. It seems that some
Intelligence Bureau report regarding S. N. Kumar was also sent by the Law
Minister to the Chief Justice of India for his opinion along with his
letter dated May 22, 1981, but the Chief Justice of India could not give
his opinion with reference to the report since he had no time to examine it
and he therefore stated that he would give his opinion after his return to
New Delhi on May 26, 1981 and in the circumstances he recommended extension
of the term of S. N. Kumar for another short term of three months. But,
since one short-term extension had already been granted, the Law Minister
presumably though that it would not be right to go on giving short-term
extensions but that a decision should now be taken whether S. N. Kumar
should be continued or not and he therefore proceeded to make his
recommendation ignoring the Intelligence Bureau Report against S. N. Kumar,
the rate of his disposals and even his alleged behaviour in court and
confining himself only to the question of his reputation for integrity. The
Law Minister put up a note before the Prime Minister on May 27, 1981
summarising the effect of the correspondence which had taken place between
him, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India and pointing
out that notwithstanding his specific request as to details of the
inquiries made by him, the Chief Justice of India had not furnished the
same to him and on the contrary the letter dated May 22, 1981 addressed by
the Chief Justice of India revealed "that he became a victim of his own
charge of vagueness made by him against the Chief Justice of Delhi." The
Law Minister stated in the note that he presumed that when the Chief
Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India met, "the former must have
informed the latter about the details that he had mentioned. . . in his
letter dated May 7, 1981" and this inference was obvious from the letters
addressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law Minister and the Chief
Justice of India. the Law Minister observed that even according to the
Chief Justice of India, the prevailing practice in the Delhi High Court was
that not every part-heard case but only those part-heard cases on which
substantial amount of time had already been spent would go with the Judge
when there was change of allocating of work but the Chief Justice of India
had "surprisingly left the matter there" without probing further "as to
whether the part-heard matters which Justice Kumar chose to handle as a
single Judge notwithstanding his having been allocated to the Division
Bench were such on which substantial amount of time had already been spent
by him" . It was also pointed out by the Law Minister in his note that it
was not merely a case of drawing inference against the integrity of S. N.
Kumar from his taking up part-heard cases after being transferred to the
appellate side but the details given by the Chief Justice of Delhi in his
letter dated May 7, 1981 went further and in contrast, the letter of the
Chief Justice of India dated May 22, 1981 was not only lacking in details
but was too vague. The Law Minister after making this analysis concluded
that in the matter of assessment of integrity he preferred to accept the
opinion of the Chief Justice of Delhi since "it is in his association that
the Judge concerned discharges his duties and he has a better occasion and
opportunity to watch his work and conduct" and on this view he recommended
that S. N. Kumar may not be continued any further as an Additional Judge.
The result was that S. N. Kumar was not continued as an Additional Judge on
the expiration of his term on June 6, 1981. 100. Now the argument urged on behalf of the petitioners and S. N. Kumar
was that the facts set cut in the letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi
dated May 7, 1981 on which the decision of the Central Government not to
continue S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge was based, were not disclosed
to the Chief Justice of India and he had therefore no opportunity to
consider those facts and give his opinion upon them and hence there was no
full and effective consultation between the Central Government and the
Chief Justice of India and the decision of the Central Government not to
continue S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge was vitiated by reason of non-
compliance with the requirement of consultation laid down in Article 217. This argument was pressed with great vehemence by the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of S. N. Kumar and he injected considerable amount of
passion in it, but we do not think it can be sustained. It is undoubtedly
true that it was constitutionally impossible for the Central Government to
arrive at the decision not to continue S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge
without consultation with the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice
of India as mandatorily required by Article 217. But as pointed out by us
in an earlier portion of the judgment, it was not necessary that the full
and identical facts which at once constituted "both the source and
foundation of the final decision" of the Central Government should be
placed before the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India by
the Central Government itself or that they should be brought to the notice
of the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India in any
particular order or by following any particular procedure. What was
necessary to constitute full and effective consultation within the meaning
of Article 217 was that the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of
India should have for their consideration "full and identical facts" which
ultimately formed the basis of the decision of the Central Government. Now
there can be no doubt that the decision of the Central Government not to
appoint S. N. Kumar for a further term was based on the facts provided by
the Chief Justice of Delhi in his letter dated May 7, 1981 and if these
facts were not placed before the Chief Justice of India before he gave his
opinion in regard to the continuance of S. N. Kumar in his letter dated May
22, 1981, the decision of the Central Government would be clearly vitiated
for want of full and effective consultation with the Chief Justice of
India. It therefore becomes material to enquire whether the facts set out
in the letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi dated May 7, 1981 were placed
before the Chief Justice of India before he gave his opinion in the letter
dated May 22, 1981. We have already discussed this question at some length
while dealing with the meeting held by the Chief Justice of Delhi with the
Chief Justice of India on March 26, 1981, and the letters dated March 28,
1981 addressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law Minister and the
Chief Justice of India subsequent to that meeting. We have pointed out
various circumstances which establish beyond any doubt that all the facts
relating to the complaints and doubts expressed against the integrity of S.
N. Kumar which were in the possession of the Chief Justice of Delhi must
have been disclosed by him to the Chief Justice of India at the meeting
held on March 26, 1981. We need not repeat what we have already discussed
in great detail but we may add that, judging as practical men conversant
with the ordinary course of human affairs, we do not see any reason why the
Chief Justice of Delhi should not have disclosed these facts to the Chief
Justice of India, particularly when the Chief Justice of India had asked
him to furnish "details and concrete facts in regard to the allegations
against Justice Kumar" . But, the question may then be asked as to why, if
the Chief Justice of Delhi had disclosed all the facts set out in the
letter dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of India at the meeting held
on March 26, 1981, the Chief Justice of Delhi should have requested the Law
Minister not to bring the letter dated May 7, 1981, to the attention of the
Chief Justice of India. The Law Minister was also intrigued by this request
and he therefore asked the Chief Justice of Delhi as to why he did not want
the letter dated May 7, 1981 to be placed before the Chief Justice of India
and the Chief Justice of Delhi gave three reasons which we have reproduced
verbatim a little earlier. The first reason given by the Chief Justice of
Delhi is extremely significant because it shows clearly and indisputably
that the facts set out in the letter dated May 7, 1981, were discussed by
the Chief Justice of Delhi with the Chief Justice of India at the meeting
held on March 26, 1981. The Chief Justice of Delhi pointed out that he did
not want the letter dated May 7, 1981, to be brought to the attention of
the Chief Justice of India because, as observed by him in the opening
portion of the letter, he had discussed the "details and concrete facts in
regard to the allegation against Justice Kumar" with Chief Justice of India
but the letter dated March 28, 1981, was written by him in the terms in
which it was couched as per the desire of the Chief Justice of India and
therefore it was embarrassing and painful for him to write the letter dated
May 7, 1981. This reason given by the Chief Justice of Delhi carries a
veiled suggestion though not expressly articulated but implicit in what he
has stated, that the Chief Justice of India did not want him to place on
record the "details and concrete facts in regard to the allegations" against S. N. Kumar, such a course being presumably contrary to the
suggestion of the Chief Justice of India. We have, of course, no definite
material before us on the basis of which we can conclude that the Chief
Justice of India must have asked the Chief Justice of Delhi not to place
the detailed facts relating to the complaints and doubts against S. N.
Kumar in writing, but it does appear that some discussion must have taken
place between the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India as
a result of which the Chief Justice of Delhi bona fide carried a feeling
that the Chief Justice of India might feel offended if the Chief Justice of
Delhi were to put the detailed facts in regard to the allegations against
S. N. Kumar on record, contrary to the view held by the Chief Justice of
India. That is why the Chief Justice of Delhi was anxious that his letter
dated May 7, 1981 should not be brought to the attention of the Chief
Justice of India. It was not because the Chief Justice of Delhi did not
want the facts set out in the letter dated May 7, 1981 to be disclosed to
the Chief Justice of India that he requested the Law Minister not to place
that letter before the Chief Justice of India, but because in view of the
impression given or perhaps a suggestion made at the meeting by the Chief
Justice of India, he apprehended that if he placed those facts on record
contrary to the wish of the Chief Justice of India the Chief Justice of
India might feel offended and his relations with the Chief Justice of India
might be spoilt. The second reason given by the Chief Justice of Delhi was
that he had found that the contents of his previous letter dated February
19, 1981 had come to be known to S. N. Kumar and some of his colleagues on
the Bench and he therefore felt that if the letter dated May 7, 1981 was
not kept by the Law Minister with himself alone, but was sent by him to the
Chief Justice of India, leakage might occur in the process and the contents
of that letter also might get known to S. N. Kumar and others, causing him
further embarrassment. The Chief Justice of Delhi might have been right or
might have been wrong in entertaining the apprehension that if his letter
dated May 7, 1981 was sent to the Chief Justice of India, its contents
might in the process leak out and S. N. Kumar and others might come to know
about them, but there is no reason to doubt that he bona fide felt this
apprehension and that weighed with him by asking the Law Minister not to
bring his letter dated May 7, 1981 to the attention of the Chief Justice of
India particularly since he had already discussed the "details and concrete
facts" set out in that letter with the Chief Justice of India. The third
reason given by the Chief Justice of Delhi was that the Chief Justice of
India had already started wrongfully denigrating him for his letter dated
February 19, 1981 as intimated to him by his friends and that if the Chief
Justice of India came to know that he had placed the detailed facts in
regard to the allegations against S. N. Kumar on record contrary to his
wish, the Chief Justice of India might feel offended and in the event his
functioning as Chief Justice of Delhi would become difficult vis-a-vis the
Chief Justice of India. This feeling voiced by the Chief Justice of Delhi
might or might not be justified and the information received by him from
his friends in regard to the feelings of the Chief Justice of India might
or might not be correct, but we have no reason to hold that the Chief
Justice of Delhi acted otherwise than bona fide in carrying this feeling.
It may be that the Chief Justice of Delhi was wrong in entertaining this
feeling, but his bona fides and veracity cannot be doubted for a moment.
Moreover, that is not a matter which falls within the scope of our inquiry.
What we have to determine is only a very limited issue, namely, whether the
facts set out in the letter dated May 7, 1981 were disclosed by the Chief
Justice of Delhi to the Chief Justice of India and so far as that is
concerned, there is no doubt in our minds that these facts were discussed
by he Chief Justice of Delhi with the Chief Justice of India at the meeting
held on March 26, 1981 and no contrary inference can be drawn merely
because, for the three reasons given by him, the Chief Justice of Delhi
asked the Law Minister not to bring his letter dated May 7, 1981 to the
attention of the Chief Justice of India. 101. There is, in fact, another piece of evidence which clearly establishes
that the detailed facts in regard to the allegations against S. N. Kumar
were discussed between the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of
India. The petitioners and S. N. Kumar of course did not dispute that the
meeting of March 26, 1981 did take place between the Chief Justice of Delhi
and the Chief Justice of India but their contention was that the only
circumstance pointed out by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Chief Justice
of India for drawing an adverse inference against the integrity of S. N.
Kumar was that he had taken up part-heard cases of the original side even
after he was transferred to the appellate side and no other facts in regard
to the integrity of S. N. Kumar were discussed by the Chief Justice of
Delhi with the Chief Justice of India. This contention of the petitioners
and S. N. Kumar is wholly without force and it stands completely answered
by what we have already discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this
judgment. But, additionally, we may point out that this contention is also
belied by the counter-affidavit dated July 7, 1981 filed by S. N. Kumar
himself. If the only complaint in regard to integrity of S. N. Kumar
mentioned by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Chief Justice of India
related to the taking up of part-heard cases by S. N. Kumar after transfer
to the appellate side and that was a fortiorari the only matter mentioned
by the Chief Justice of India to S. N. Kumar when he called S. N. Kumar for
discussion after his meeting with the Chief Justice of Delhi, it is
difficult to understand how S. N. Kumar happened to refer to Suits Nos.
1408, 1409 and 1417 of 1979 in his counter-affidavit filed before the
disclosure of the letter dated May 7, 1981. These three suits were not
part-heard suits because the summonses for judgment in these three suits
had been disposed of by S. N. Kumar on March 7, 1980 by granting
unconditional leave to defend and yet they were specifically referred to by
S. N. Kumar in his counter-affidavit and explanation was sought to be given
in regard to them. These three suits were particularly mentioned in the
letter dated May 7, 1981 and according to that letter, it was in relation
to these suits that allegation of lack of integrity was made against S. N.
Kumar. Now if the complaint against the integrity of S. N. Kumar in
relation to these three suits was not mentioned by the Chief Justice of
Delhi to the Chief Justice of India at the meeting held on March 26, 1981,
how could S. N. Kumar think of dealing with them in his counter-affidavit.
The reference to these three suits in the counter-affidavit of S. N. Kumar
clearly shows that apart from the part-heard suits, these three suits and
the allegations relating to them were also disclosed by the Chief Justice
of Delhi to the Chief Justice of India and if that be so, there can be no
doubt that all the facts in regard to the allegations against S. N. Kumar
must have been discussed between the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief
Justice of India. 102. It was suggested by the learned counsel on behalf of S. N. Kumar in
the course of arguments that the Chief Justice of Delhi was anxious to keep
the facts set out in the letter dated May 7, 1981 secret from the Chief
Justice of India, lest he should make his comments on them and reject the
recommendation not to continue S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge based on
these facts. But this suggestion is meaningless, because the Chief Justice
of Delhi in any event knew as a result of the meeting held on March 26,
1981 that the Chief Justice of India was not agreeing with the view
expressed by him and was against his recommendation to discontinue S. N.
Kumar as an Additional Judge, while he, on his part, was not prepared to
change his view and retract the recommendation made by him, because even
after the discussion with the Chief Justice of India, he felt that he could
not honestly recommend continuance of S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge
and if that be so, there is no reason why he should have wanted to keep
back his letter dated May 7, 1981 from the Chief Justice of India except
for the three reasons given by him. We must, of course, observe that in our
opinion, howsoever strong and cogent might be the three reasons given by
him, the Chief Justice of Delhi should never have asked the Law Minister
not to place his letter dated May 7, 1981 before the Chief Justice of
India. So long as the Chief Justice of Delhi was acting bona fide in the
discharge of his constitutional duty - and we have no doubt that in the
matter of continuance of S. N. Kumar he was acting bona fide, he should not
have bothered whether by his action in putting the facts on record in the
letter dated May 7, 1981 the Chief Justice of India would be offended and
his relations with the Chief Justice of India would be spoilt. There are
occasions when persons holding high constitutional offices are called upon
to perform an unpleasant duty and this duty they have to perform, whatever
be the consequences. If necessary, let the heavens fall but what is right
and just shall be done without fear or favour, affection or goodwill. Long
years ago that great common law Judge, Lord Mansfield spoke of the judicial
office in majestic tones and said :I will not do that which my conscience
tells me is wrong, upon his occasion; to gain the huzzas of thousands, or
the daily praise of all the papers which come from the Press; I will not
avoid doing what I think is right; though it should draw on me the whole
artillery of libels; all that falsehood and malice can invent, or the
credulity of a deluded populace can swallow.... Once for all, let it be
understood, that no endeavours of this kind will influence any man who at
present sits here. What the learned Chief Justice said in regard to judicial function must
apply with equal validity where a Judge is called upon to discharge any
other function entrusted to him by the Constitution and he must boldly and
fearlessly do that which Constitution commands. But merely because the
Chief Justice of Delhi flinched and faltered out of a sense of apprehension
that the Chief Justice of India might feel offended by his writing the
letter dated May 7, 1981, it does not follow that the facts set out in that
letter were not personally discussed by him with the Chief Justice of India
at the meeting held on March 26, 1981. We are clearly of the view that the
"full and identical facts" on which the decision of the Central Government
was based were placed before the Chief Justice of India and there was full
and effective consultation with him before the Central Government reached
the decision that S. N. Kumar should not be continued as an Additional
Judge. We may also point out that this decision of the Central Government
was not based on any irrelevant considerations, since, as we have already
pointed out earlier, lack of reputation for integrity is certainly a most
relevant consideration in deciding whether a person should be appointed a
Judge. 103. We may make it clear that in taking this view we do not for a moment
wish to suggest that S. N. Kumar was lacking in integrity. That is not a
matter into which we are called upon to enquire and nothing that is stated
by us should be regarded as expression of any opinion on this question. We
may observe in fairness to S. N. Kumar that the Chief Justice of India
clearly stated it to be his opinion that the integrity of S. N. Kumar was
unquestionable. What happened here was that there were two conflicting
opinions given by the two constitutional authorities required to be
consulted, namely, the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of
India. Both were perfectly bona fide opinions and the Central Government
had to choose between them and come to its own decision. The Central
Government preferred the opinion of the Chief Justice of Delhi for the
reasons mentioned in the note of the Law Minister dated May 27, 1981 and
decided not to appoint S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge for a further
term. We do not think this decision suffers from any constitutional
infirmity. 104. But before we part with this point, we must refer to one last
contention urged on behalf of the petitioners and S. N. Kumar and that
contention was that the non-appointment of S. N. Kumar as an Additional
Judge was tantamount to his removal and the Central Government was
therefore bound to follow the principles of natural justice before taking
the decision not to continue him as an Additional Judge. This contention is
without merit and premise on which it is based is not sustainable. It is
wholly incorrect to say that when an Additional Judge whose term has
expired and who would therefore have to return to the Bar or to the
subordinate judicial service, is not appointed a permanent Judge or an
Additional Judge for a further term, he is removed by the Central
Government. We have already discussed this aspect of the matter and pointed
out that on the expiration of his term, an Additional Judge has no right to
be appointed a permanent Judge or an Additional Judge for a further terms
and his only right is to be considered for such appointment and if as a
result of such consideration, after going through the consultation process
envisaged in Article 217 , he is not considered suitable for further
appointment and it is decided not to reappoint him, he cannot complain
against the decision, unless he can show that there was no full and
effective consultation as contemplated in Article 217 or that the decision
not to appoint him was based on irrelevant considerations. If he is not
appointed a permanent Judge or an Additional Judge for a further term, he
goes out, but that happens because the term for which he was originally
appointed has come to an end and not because he is removed. There is
therefore no question of giving him an opportunity to be heard before the
decision is taken not to appoint him as a permanent Judge or an Additional
Judge. We must in the circumstances reject the challenge levelled on behalf
of the petitioners and S. N. Kumar against the decision of the Central
Government not to appoint S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge for a further
term. 105. We would therefore dismiss the first group of writ petitions insofar
as they seek relief in respect of O. N. Vohra and S. N. Kumar. On relief
can be granted in respect of O. N. Vohra because, though added as a party
respondent, he has not appeared and claimed any relief against the decision
of the Central Government to discontinue him as an Additional Judge and has
accepted such decision without protest or complaint. That is the reason why
we have not examined the complaint of the petitioners in regard to
discontinuance of O. N. Vohra as an Additional Judge. So far as S. N. Kumar
is concerned, we have rejected his claim for relief, because, in our
opinion, and we have already given our reasons taking this view, the
decision to discontinue him as an Additional Judge was taken by the Central
Government after full and effective consultation with the Chief Justice of
Delhi and the Chief Justice of India and it was not based on any irrelevant
considerations. We have taken the view that the circular letter issued by
the Law Minister was not unconstitutional and void and hence the first
group of writ petitions must also fail insofar as they challenge the
constitutional validity of the circular letter. The other reliefs claimed
in the first group of writ petitions have also been rejected by us and
hence this group of writ petitions must wholly fail. 106. But, while dismissing this group of writ petitions, we may observe
that though, in our opinion, there was full and effective consultation with
the Chief Justice of Delhi and the Chief Justice of India before the
decision was taken by the Central Government to Discontinue S. N. Kumar as
an Additional Judge and neither the petitioners nor S. N. Kumar could
therefore have any legitimate cause for grievance against such decision, it
would be a good thing if, having regard to the high status and dignity of a
High Court Judge, the Union of India could see its way to place the letter
dated May 7, 1981 addressed by the Chief Justice of Delhi to the Law
Minister before the Chief Justice of India and elicit his opinion with
reference to that letter and then consider whether S. N. Kumar should be
reappointed as an Additional Judge in the Delhi High Court. This is only a
suggestion which we are making ex cathedra for the acceptance of the
Government; if thought fit.K. B. N. Singh's case 107. The second group of writ petitions raises the question of
constitutional validity of the orders transferring Chief Justice M. M.
Ismail to the Kerala High Court and Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to the
Madras High Court. However, so far as Chief Justice M. M. Ismail is
concerned, the question has become academic because he has stated in the
counter-affidavit filed by him in reply to the writ petition of Miss Lily
Thomas that he does not want anyone to litigate for or against him nor does
he want anything about him to be argued or debated and he has subsequently
resigned his office as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court. The only
question which therefore survives for consideration is whether the transfer
of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Madras High Court could be said to
be constitutionally invalid. The determination of this question obviously
depends upon the true scope and ambit of the power of transfer conferred
under clause (1) of Article 222. That Article reads as follows : This article came up for consideration before a Bench of five Judges of
this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth Mr. Seervai arguing on behalf of Sankalchand
Sheth in that case contended that a Judge cannot be transferred from one
High Court to another without his consent, and there were two grounds on
which he rested this contention. One was that on a proper construction of Article 222 , clause (1) in the context of the basic principle of
independence of the judiciary, consent must be read as a necessary
requirement in that article and the other was that since transfer of a
Judge involves a fresh appointment in the High Court to which he is
transferred, such transfer cannot be made without the consent of the Judge.
The majority Judges comprising Chandrachud, J., (as he then was) and
Krishna Iyer, J. and Fazal Ali, J. rejected this contention of Mr. Seervai
and held that there was no need or justification, in order to uphold and
protect the independence of the judiciary, to construe Article 222 , clause
(1) as meaning that a Judge can be transferred from one High Court to
another only with his consent. Justice Untwalia and myself, however, took a
different view. We upheld the contention of Mr. Seervai and held that a
Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another without his
consent. Mr. Justice Untwalia based is conclusion on the second ground
urged by Mr. Seervai, namely, that the transfer of a Judge involves fresh
appointment in the High Court to which he is transferred and the Judge is
also required to take a fresh oath in accordance with Article 219 and in
the form prescribed in the Third Schedule and he cannot therefore be
transferred without his consent. I accepted both the grounds urged by Mr.
Seervai in support of his contention and held that it is no doubt true that
the words "without his consent" are not to be found in clause (1) of Article 222 , but the word 'transfer' which is used there is a neutral word
which can mean consensual as well as compulsory transfer and if the high
and noble purpose of the Constitution to secure the independence of
superior judiciary by insulating it from all forms of executive control or
interference is to be achieved, the words 'transfer' must be read in the
limited sense of consensual transfer. I pointed that when a Judge is
transferred to another High Court, he has to make and subscribe a fresh
oath or affirmation before the Governor of the State to which he is
transferred before he can enter upon the office of a Judge of that High
Court and such transfer would not become effective unless the Judge makes
and subscribes an oath or affirmation before the Governor and that would
plainly be a matter within the volition of the Judge and I therefore,
concluded that since the volition of the Judge who is transferred is
essential for making the transfer effective, there can be no transfer of a
Judge of a High Court without his consent. The view taken by Justice
Untwalia and myself was thus a minority view, but since the present writ
petitions were being heard by a larger Bench than that which decided Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth, , Mr. Seervai canvassed the minority view for acceptance by the 

Bench of seven Judges. The learned Attorney-General, on the other hand, contended
that the majority view taken in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , represented the correct law on the
point and the Bench of seven Judges should affirm that view. I have
carefully examined the arguments which have been advanced with great
ability and learning on both sides, but I am afraid I find it impossible to
change the view I took in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , . Nothing that has been said in the
course of the arguments has persuaded me to take a different view. I remain
unconvinced of the incorrectness of the view taken by me and I hold to that
view despite the fact that I still happen to be in a minority. I have
already given elaborate reasons in my judgment in Sankalchand Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , for taking the
view that a Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another
without his consent and I think it would be a futile exercise on my part to
reiterate those reasons once again in this judgment. I hold for the reasons
given by me in my judgment in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , that the power of transfer under Article 222 , clause (1) cannot be exercised against a judge without his
consent. It is, I may repeat, a highly dangerous power involving great
hardship and injury to the Judge transferred including a stigma on his
reputation in cases where the transfer is not effected pursuant to any
policy but the Judge is picked out for transfer on a selective basis and to
my mind, it makes no difference whether the transfer is made by the
government on its own initiative or it is made at the instance of the Chief
Justice of India as in the case of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh. 108. Even if I am wrong in taking the view that no Judge can be transferred
from one High Court to another without his consent, the transfer of Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh must still fail. It has been held in Sankalchand
Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , and on
this point there was no disagreement between the majority and the minority,
that the power to transfer a Judge from one High Court to another can be
exercised only in public interest and there must be full and effective
consultation between the President, that is, the Central Government and the
Chief Justice of India before the decision to transfer a Judge is taken. I
wholly accept this construction of clause (1) of Article 222 and since full
and detailed reasons have been given in the various judgments in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth, I need not indulge in the same exercise again. 109. Now it is obvious that when a Judge is transferred from one High Court
to another by way of punishment, it can never be in public interest for no
public interest would countenance punishment of a Judge except by way of
impeachment under proviso (b) to clause (1) of Article 217 read with clause
(4) of Article 124. There is a clear antithesis between a transfer by way
of punishment and a transfer in public interest and therefore, a transfer
by way of punishment must be held to be outside the scope and ambit of article 222 , clause (1). In fact, it was so held in Sankalchand Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth , by all the Judges.
But the question then arises when can it be said that a Judge is
transferred from one High Court to another by way of punishment.
Undoubtedly, when a Judge is transferred by the Government because he does
not toe the line of the Executive or gives decisions against the Executive
or has for some reason or the other fallen from its grace, it would be a
transfer by way of punishment. That would be the plainest case of penal
transfer. But these are not the only circumstances in which a Judge may be
transferred from one High Court to another by way of punishment. The
element of punishment is not confined merely to the wrath of the government
on account of a Judge being inconveniently independent. There may be cases
where a Judge may be transferred because he is not behaving properly or is
conducting himself in a manner not befitting the position of a High Court
Judge and such a transfer grounded on the conduct or behavior of the Judge
would clearly be punishment, even if it be on the recommendation of the
Chief Justice of India. It is also possible that the Chief Justice of India
may find in a given case that a Judge of a High court is promoting the
interest of his son or brother in practice or by passive inaction allowing
his son or brother to exploit his relationship with the Judge for the
purpose of advancing his professional interest and in such a case, the
Chief Justice of India may recommend that the Judge should be transferred
to another High Court and the Government may accept such recommendation.
Would the transfer in such a case not clearly be by way of punishment ?
There may also be cases where the recommendation of the Chief Justice of
India for transfer of Judge may proceed from his disagreement with the
social philosophy of the Judge or his unhappiness with the manner in which
he is deciding cases and the Government may unquestioningly accept such
recommendation. This would also, in my opinion, be nothing short of
punishment. I take the view that whenever transfer of a Judge is effected
for a reason bearing upon the conduct or behaviour of the Judge, it would
be by way of punishment and therefore, not permissible under clause (1) of Article 222. When I say this, I may make it clear that I do not regard
transfer per se as a punishment. It is the reason for which the transfer is
made, which makes it penal and if that reason is related to the conduct or
behaviour of the Judge, the transfer would clearly be a penal transfer not
in public interest and hence outside the scope and ambit of Article 222 ,
clause (1). 110. That takes me to a consideration of the question whether in the
present case there was full and effective consultation between the Central
Government and the Chief Justice of India before the decision was taken to
transfer Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Madras High Court and whether
such transfer was effected in public interest and not by way of punishment.
While considering this question, I would like to emphasise at the outset,
and the point I am making here is one of great importance, that when a
transfer of a Judge of a High Court is challenged in a Court of Law, the
burden must lie upon the Government to sustain the validity of the
transfer. The power of transfer, even according to the majority decision in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himmatlal Sheth is a drastic 
power to be exercised only in rare cases as it has the
effect of destroying the right of the Judge who is transferred, to continue
as a Judge in the High court to which he was appointed until he reaches the
age of 62 years and removing him to another High Court where possibly he
would not have agreed to go if he had been asked at the time of his
original appointment. When an order of transfer is made, the Judge has a
difficult choice, either to go to the High Court where he is transferred or
to resign and having burnt his boats and given up his profession long back,
he would be in great difficulty if he chose to resign and therefore, from a
practical point of view, he would have no option but to go to the other
High Court, howsoever inconvenient it may be to him. Moreover, it would be
almost impossible for the Judge to successfully challenge the order of
transfer if the burden of showing its invalidity were cast upon him. Even
as it is, the Judge would have to wage a lone and unequal battle against
the Government when he challenges the Order of transfer and if the onus of
establishing facts invalidating the order of transfer were thrown upon him,
the battle would be rendered still more unequal and the scales would be
weighted heavily against him. The result would be that even an invalid
order of transfer would pass muster on account of the inability of the
Judge discharge the burden of showing the invalidity of the order of
transfer and the virtual immunity thus granted to the order of transfer
would seriously impair the independence of the judiciary. Furthermore,
having regard to the high status and dignity of a Judge of a High Court, it
is but fair that when the Government is displacing the right of the Judge
to continue in his High Court up to the age of 62 years, he should be told
what are the reasons which have weighed with the Government in transferring
him. He must be assured that all the constitutional requirements have been
complied with. Besides, the facts showing that there was full and effective
consultation between the Government and the Chief Justice of India and the
reasons for making the transfer would be within the special knowledge of
the Government and the onus must therefore be upon the Government to prove
them. Thus the burden of sustaining the validity of the Order of transfer
must rest on the Government and this burden, it may be pointed out, is a
heavy burden, which must be satisfactorily discharged by the Government.
This is the same principle which has been applied by this Court when the
legality of detention of a person is challenged by filing an application
for a writ of habeas corpus. This Court has consistently taken the view in
such cases, unlike the House of Lords in Zamir case (Zamir v. Secretary of
State for the Home Department, [1980] A.C. 930 (HL)), that the burden of
sustaining the validity of the detention must lie on the detaining
authority. 111. I may observe that this is a remarkably unusual case in which there is
substantially a contest between the Chief Justice of a High Court on one
hand and the Chief Justice of India on the other. The Government is, of
course, a party to this contest since it is ultimately the order of
transfer made by the Government which is called in question by Chef Justice
K. B. N. Singh, but since the Order of transfer was made by the Government
on the recommendation of the Chief Justice of India, it is the Chief
Justice of India who has accepted the gauntlet and joined the contest
against Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh. The Chief Justice of India has filed
a counter-affidavit in reply to the writ petition of Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh and others, but having filed such counter-affidavit, he has chosen
not to appear before us through counsel. The result is that we have been
deprived of the opportunity of asking for clarification of some of the
averments made in the counter-affidavit, which appeared at least to some of
us to be vague and indefinite. When we asked the learned Solicitor-General
in the course of the hearing to give us particulars of one statement made
in the counter-affidavit of the Chief Justice of India, namely, "Every
relevant aspect of that question was discussed by me fully with President
both before and after I proposed the transfer" , the learned Solicitor-
General rightly rejoined by saying that he was not appearing for the Chief
Justice of India and he could not therefore give the particulars asked for
by the Court. We have therefore to proceed on the basis of the counter-
affidavit of the Chief Justice of India as it stands without any further
clarification or elucidation. We must also remind ourselves when we are
deciding this contest between Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh on the one hand
and the Chief Justice of India and the Government on the other, that we are
sitting as Judges, who have taken an oath to perform the duties of our
office without fear or favour, affection or ill will and it is out solemn
and sacred duty to do justice, irrespective of who is the litigant before
us. We have the highest regard for the Chief Justice of India as we have
for Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, but they are both litigants before us and
while deciding the contest between them, we must be blind to their status
or position and we must adjudicate the controversy between them as we might
do in the case of any other litigants before us. We must apply the same
standards in assessment of the affidavits and counter-affidavits filed by
Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh and Chief Justice of India as we would do in
any other case. The scales of justice cannot tilt one way or another merely
because a litigant before us happens to be the Chief Justice of a High
Court or the highest amongst the Indian Judiciary. They are all equal
before us when we sit on the seat of justice and we shall do justice,
without fear or favour, affection or ill will and decide the issues arising
in the case objectively and dispassionately, forgetful of the high status
and dignity enjoyed by the two litigants before us. 112. With these preliminary observations I may now proceed to consider the
facts. But on facts, I do not wish to say much, because I agree with the
judgment prepared by my learned brother D. A. Desai on this point. He has
carefully analysed the correspondence as well as the affidavits and reached
the conclusion that there was no full and effective consultation between
the Central Government and the Chief Justice of India before the decision
was taken to transfer Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Madras High Court
and the transfer was made by way of punishment and not in public interest.
I wholly endorse this view taken by him as also the reasons given by him in
support of that view, but having regard to the importance of the matter
affecting as it does the fate of the Chief Justice of a High Court, I would
add a few words in support of what my learned brother D. A. Desai has
stated in his judgment. 113. So far as the first question is concerned whether there was full and
effective consultation between the Central Government and the Chief Justice
of India, I have already pointed out, while discussing the scope and effect
of clause (1) of Article 217 as to what is the meaning and content of
'consultation'. It requires that the Central Government must make available
to the Chief Justice of India relevant data in regard to the Judge proposed
to be transferred and the Chief Justice of India must also elicit and
ascertain all relevant material relating to the Judge either directly from
him or form other reliable resources and place such material before the
Central Government. Each of the two constitutional authorities, the Central
Government and the Chief Justice of India, must have for its consideration
full and identical facts which can at once constitute both he source and
foundation of the final decision. There must be careful and intelligent
deliberation on the part of each of them on full and identical facts. Each
must make known to the other its point of view and they must discuss and
examine the relevant merits of the views. It is only after this process is
gone through that a decision can be taken by the Central Government to
transfer a Judge from one High Court to another. Now here, in the present
case, the initiative for transferring Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh was
taken by the Chief Justice of India. He proposed by his letter dated
December 7, 1980 that the Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh may be transferred
to the High Court of Rajasthan. This means that on his part he had made up
his mind prior to December 7, 1980 that Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh should
be moved out of Patna. Now admittedly, the Chief Justice of India had not
mentioned anything about the proposed transfer to Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh prior to making his proposal of December 7, 1980. This was rather
strange - I might say almost inexplicable - because the judgments of the
Chief Justice of India and Krishna Iyer, J. in Sankalchand Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , have clearly laid
down that it is the duty of the Chief Justice of India to elicit and
ascertain, if necessary by asking directly the Judge concerned all relevant
material relating to the Judge and such material would include, for
example, the health of the Judge, the availability of medical facilities in
and the climate of the place to which he is to be transferred, the business
or occupation of his wife or daughter, the position of his parents and the
education of his children etc. as a part of the process of consultation.
The Chief Justice of India should have therefore before making his proposal
for transfer by his letter dated December 7, 1980, informed Chief Justice
K. B. N. Singh about his proposed transfer to Rajasthan High Court and
enquired from him whether he would have any particular problems or
difficulties, if he was transferred to the Rajasthan High Court. But
unfortunately, no such enquiry was made by the Chief Justice of India
before he made his proposal for transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to
the Rajasthan High Court, which proposal might well have been accepted by
the Central Government immediately, but for the fact that there was some
difficulty in regard to another proposal simultaneously put forward by the
Chief Justice of India for transfer of Chief Justice K. D. Sharma from the
Rajasthan High Court to the Kerala High Court. The Chief Justice of India
however, changed his proposal in regard to the transfer of Chief Justice K.
B. N. Singh and asked the Central Government by his letter dated December
20, 1980 addressed to the Law Minister to transfer Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh to the Madras High Court. There was thus a change in the proposal for
transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh within a period of less than 14
days. But even then, the Chief Justice of India did not inform Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh that he was being transferred to the Madras High
Court nor did he enquire to gather from him any relevant material bearing
upon the proposal for transfer. Now it is significant to note that neither
of the two letters dated December 7, 1980 and December 20, 1980 sets out
any facts showing why the Chief Justice of India desired that Chief Justice
K. B. N. Singh should be transferred from the Patna High Court. Neither of
these two letters throws any light as to what were the facts on the basis
of which the Chief Justice of India recommended transfer of Chief Justice
K. B. N. Singh from the Patna High Court and there is also nothing in these
two letters to show that these facts were communicated by the Chief Justice
of India to the Law Minister or to any other high level functionary of the
Central Government. The letter dated December 7, 1980 merely states that he
was recommending the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh on the basis
of the data which he had collected as a result of personal inquiries made
from several lawyers and many other Judges of the High Court and which he
had considered with the greatest objectivity. What were the data collected
by him on the basis of which he was recommending the transfer of Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh was not disclosed by the Chief Justice of India in
his letter dated December 7, 1980 and from the tenor of this letter it
appears though it cannot be said with certainty that no such data must have
been communicated to the Law Minister prior to December 7, 1980, for
otherwise the Chief Justice of India would have stated in this letter that
he was recommending the transfer on the basis of the data which he had
already pointed out to the Law Minister. It is a little surprising that if
any facts bearing upon the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh were to
be communicated by the Chief Justice of India to the Law Minister, it
should not have been done in writing particularly when the letter dated
December 7, 1980 recommending the transfer was addressed by the Chief
Justice of India to the Law Minister, and this was followed by another
letter dated December 20, 1980 addressed to the Law Minister. It was quite
sometime after the revised proposal for transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh was made in the letter dated December 20, 1980 that on January 5,
1981, the Chief Justice of India telephoned to Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
and informed him that Chief Justice M. M. Ismail was proposed to be
transferred to the Kerala High Court and that he may therefore have to go
to the Madras High Court and enquired from him "if he had anything to say
on the question of his proposed transfer". Chief justice K. B. N. Singh
thereupon enquired from the Chief Justice of India as to why "he may be
transferred to Madras" on which, according to the counter-affidavit of the
Chief Justice of India, he gave two reasons, one that it was Government
policy and the other that it was proposed to transfer Chief Justice M. M.
Ismail from Madras and "it was necessary to appoint an experienced and
senior Chief Justice in his place." Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, however,
informed the Chief Justice of India that his mother was bedridden and was
not in a position to go with him to Madras and that if his transfer was
insisted upon, he would prefer to resign. The Chief Justice of India
requested him not to act in haste and to give the matter a close thought.
Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh thereafter met the Chief Justice of India in
New Delhi in the evening of January 8, 1981 and discussed the question of
his proposed transfer with him for some time. When Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh mentioned his difficulty in regard to his mother's advanced age and
illness, the Chief Justice of India told him that he was unable to agree
with him "since there were available persons in his family who could look
after his mother and in any case, his brother S. B. N. Singh who was
practising in the High Court was quite capable of looking after the
mother." Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, however, informed the Chief Justice
of India that his mother has a special attachment to him and he could not
leave her to the care of his brother or other members of his family. Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh then told the Chief Justice of India that certain
persons connected with the High Court who were influenced by communal
considerations, had made some baseless complaints against him and that he
on his part did not permit communal or any other extraneous considerations
to influence him administratively or judicially. The Chief Justice of
India, however, assured Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh that he did not hold
that Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh himself was to blame, but certain persons
were exploiting their proximity to him which had created needless
misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
thereafter left and on the next day that is, January 9, 1981, the Prime
Minister endorsed her decision on the file in regard to transfer of Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Madras High Court and the formal order
effecting such transfer was made on January 19, 1981. 114. It is extremely difficult on these facts to hold that there was full
and effective consultation between the Central Government and the Chief
Justice of India. The burden of showing that there was full and effective
consultation rests heavily on the Government and it is not possible to say
that this burden has been discharged by the Government. I have already
referred to the correspondence exchanged between the Chief Justice of India
and the Law Minister and there is nothing in it which shows that any facts
bearing upon the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh were communicated
by the Chief Justice of India to the Law Minister. We were informed by the
learned Solicitor-General on an enquiry made by us that there is also
nothing in the nothings which might indicate even remotely that any such
facts were communicated by the Chief Justice of India to the Law Minister
or to the Prime Minister or to any other high level constitutional
functionary of the Central Government. The only statement which we have on
this point is the one made by the Chief Justice of India in his counter-
affidavit, namely, that "every relevant aspect of that question was
discussed by me fully with the President both before and after I proposed
the transfer" . This statement, even if it be accepted as wholly correct,
is, in my opinion, not sufficient to discharge the burden which lies upon
the government to show that there was full and effective consultation. In
the first place, it does not say who was the constitutional functionary on
behalf of the President with whom "every relevant aspect of that question
was discussed". Did the Chief Justice of India discuss the matter with the
President personally, though, of course, a statement was made to us on
behalf of the President that he had no discussion with the Chief Justice of
India in this respect or did he discuss with the Prime Minister or did he
discuss with the Law Minister ? We are not informed as to who was the
person with whom the discussion took place and unless the name of the
person is mentioned, I do not see how the correctness of the statement can
be verified or challenged by the other side. It is not enough merely to
repeat the constitutional formula that every aspect of the question was
discussed with the President. It is an affidavit which is made by the Chief
Justice and the affidavit must contain not merely the constitutional
incantation but facts giving particulars stating with whom the Chief
Justice of India had discussion. The affidavit also does not give the date
or dates when the discussion took place between the Chief Justice of India
and the President. The statement made in the affidavit is delightfully
vague. According to this statement, the discussion took place "both before
and after I proposed the transfer". This would mean that the discussion
could have taken place at any time before December 7, 1980 (when the first
proposal was made) or at any time after December 20, 1980 up to January 9,
1981. How can Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh possibly meet such a vague
allegation ? I personally fail to see why if the Chief Justice of India had
discussion with the Law Minister or the Prime Minister in regard to the
proposed transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, the Chief Justice of
India could not give us the date or dates when such discussion took place,
because surely he must be having some record in regard to his meetings with
the Law Minister or the Prime Minister. Then again, the statement in the
affidavit merely says that every relevant aspect of the question was
discussed, but does not indicate what aspects were discussed. It is for the
court to decide whether all relevant facts were discussed between the Chief
Justice of India and the Central Government so as to constitute full and
effective consultation and this enquiry cannot be pre-empted by the Chief
Justice of India by asserting in his affidavit that every relevant aspect
of the question was discussed by him with the Central Government. It is not
for the Chief Justice of India to decide, but it is for the court to be
satisfied, that all relevant aspects of the question were discussed by him
with the Central Government. It is possible that the Chief Justice of India
might have considered some facts as irrelevant and not discussed them with
the Central Government, but the Court may find that such facts were
relevant and should have formed the subject-matter of discussion and it is
equally possible that some facts might have been discussed which the Chief
Justice of India considered relevant but the Court might find them to be
irrelevant. We are not told by the Chief Justice of India as to what were
the facts discussed by him with the Central Government and in the absence
of this information, it is not possible for us to conclude that there was
full and effective consultation between the Chief Justice of India and the
Central Government. 115. There is also another infirmity form which the process of consultation
suffers. It was on January 8, 1981 that Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
discussed with the Chief Justice of India the difficulty arising from his
mother's advanced age and illness and when the Chief Justice of India
pointed out to him that his brother and other family members were there to
look after his mother, he explained to the Chief Justice of India that his
mother had a sentimental attachment to him and he could not leave her to
the care of his brother or other members of the family. There is nothing to
show that this particular difficulty of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh was
brought to the notice of the Central Government by the Chief Justice of
India before the decision was taken by the Prime Minister on January 9,
1981 to transfer Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh. The meeting between Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh and the Chief Justice of India took place at 7.00
p.m. on January 8, 1981 and on the next day, the Prime Minister made her
endorsement on the file and there is absolutely nothing to show, nothing
even in the counter-affidavit of the Chief Justice of India, that after his
talk with Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh, he telephoned either to the law
Minister or to the Prime Minister pointing out his particular difficulty of
Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh to the Central Government. There is nothing
even in any notings on the file showing that any such information was
conveyed by the Chief Justice of India to the Law Minister or to the Prime
Minister in the evening of January 8, 1981 or on January 9, 1981. This
omission to communicate the difficulty which would be experienced by Chief
Justice K. B. N. Singh as a result of transfer is sufficient to vitiate the
process of consultation and it must be held that there was no full and
effective consultation as required under Article 222 , clause (1). 116. We may now examine the reasons for which Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh
was transferred to the Madras High Court. Two reasons were given by the
Chief Justice of India to Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh in the course of the
telephonic talk which took place on January 5, 1981. One was that the
transfer was being made on account of Government policy and the other was
that since Chief Justice M. M. Ismail was being transferred from Madras, it
was necessary to appoint an experienced and senior Chief Justice in his
place. So far as the first reason is concerned, I find it rather difficult
to appreciate It. The Government Policy which the Law Minister put forward
was that there should be Chief Justice from outside in every High Court,
but the Chief Justice of India in his letter dated December 7, 1980
expressed his firm opposition to this Government policy and stated that
transfers of Chief Justices "may be made in appropriate cases for strictly
objective reasons". and it was in pursuance of this view taken by him that
he recommended the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh. The Chief
Justice of India did not recommend the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh pursuant to the Government policy because he was firmly opposed to
that policy, but he recommended the transfer because he thought that for
strictly objective reasons, it was necessary to transfer Chief Justice K.
B. N. Singh. Then, how could the Chief Justice of India tell Chief Justice
K. B. N. Singh that he was being transferred on account of Government
policy. The second reason given by the Chief Justice of India is also a
little intriguing. If Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh was proposed to be
transferred to Madras because it was necessary to appoint an experienced
and senior Chief Justice in place of Chief Justice M. M. Ismail, why, may I
ask, was he proposed for transfer to the Rajasthan High Court ? This reason
could not possibly apply to the proposed transfer to the Rajasthan High
Court. There is no doubt that Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh was proposed to
be transferred not because he was a senior and experienced Chief Justice
who was required to man the High Court of Madras in place of Chief Justice
M. M. Ismail but because the Chief Justice of India was of the view that he
should be moved out of the Patna High Court. 117. Then, in the course of the discussion at the meeting which took place
on January 8, 1981, the Chief Justice of India stated to Chief Justice K.
B. N. Singh that certain persons were exploiting their proximity to him
which had created needless misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. I do not
know whether this statement was made by the Chief Justice of India by way
of furnishing to Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh the reason why he was being
transferred because I do not find it so stated in the counter-affidavit of
the Chief Justice of India. But even if it be assumed that this was the
real reason why Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh was sought to be transferred
from the Patna High Court, I cannot say whether this reason was
communicated by the Chief Justice of India to the Central Government
because there is nothing in the correspondence or in the notings showing
that any such communication was made by the Chief Justice of India to the
Central Government, nor does the counter-affidavit of the Chief Justice of
India throw any light on this point beyond making a vague and indefinite
statement which I have already discussed. This circumstance would also show
that there was no full and effective consultation. But assuming that this
reason was communicated by the Chief Justice of India to the Central
Government and it weighed with the Central Government in making the order
of transfer; it would, I am afraid, have the effect of converting the
transfer into a penal transfer. It is undoubtedly true that the Chief
Justice of India told Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh that he was not
personally to blame, but if he was by his passive inaction allowing certain
persons - and certain persons in this context must mean his close relatives - to take advantage of their proximity to him and he was being transferred
on that account, it would certainly be a transfer for a reason related to
his conduct or behavior. But quite apart from that, I find that this is not
the reason which weighed with the Central Government in making the order of
transfer against Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh. The Central Government
stated in a note handed over by the learned Solicitor-General to the court
that the reason why the Central Government made the order of transfer was : 118. I would, therefore, allow the second group of writ petitions insofar
as they challenge the constitutional validity of the order transferring
Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh and issue a writ declaring the order of
transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh as unconstitutional and void. 118-A. There will be no order as to costs in both the groups of writ
petitions. There will also be no order on the special leave petition. Gupta, J. - This batch of writ petitions raises broadly two issues : A number of other matters connected with these questions, directly or
remotely, were discussed at length at the hearing of the petitions. As I
happen to agree with the conclusions reached by one or another of my
learned brethren on the different questions that arise for decision, I
shall deal with only some aspects of the controversy. It is necessary at
the outset to state two propositions on which there is no controversy : one
is that the independence of the judiciary is a cardinal principle of our
Constitution, and the other is that an Additional Judge of a High Court is
not appointed on probation. The first proposition needs a little
elaboration. Independence of the judiciary does not mean freedom of the
Judges to act arbitrarily, it means that the Judges must have freedom in
discharging their judicial functions. In order to maintain the independence
of the judiciary it has to be protected against interference, direct or
indirect; it also follows that the constitutional provisions should not be
construed in a manner that would tend to undermine this independence. 120. The first of the two questions set out above arises on the decision of
the Union of India not to extend the tenure of Shri S. N. Kumar, and
Additional Judge of the Delhi High Court, on the expiry of his initial term
of office. Shri Kumar was appointed an Additional Judge of the Delhi High
Court for a period of two years. He assumed the charge of his office on
March 7, 1979. On February 19, 1981, a few days before Shri Kumar's term of
office was to expire, the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court wrote to
the Union Law Minister saying that it was his "very painful duty not to
recommend and extension for Justice Kumar" as he has been receiving " 121. In my opinion the decision not to extend Shri Kumar's term of office
as an Additional Judge was invalid and unconstitutional on several grounds.
The first ground is that when the question before the concerned authorities
was whether the term of an Additional Judge should be extended and the
volume of work pending in the High Court admittedly required the services
of another Judge, it was not permissible to refuse extension on the basis
of unconfirmed reports. The scheme of the constitutional provisions does
not warrant such a course of action. Under Article 217(1) of the
Constitution the Presidents, before the appoints a person as a Judge of a
High Court, whether permanent or additional, has to consult these
functionaries : the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and,
in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the
Chief Justice of the High Court. A permanent Judge holds office until he
attains the age of 62 years. The tenure of an Additional Judge, Article
217(1) says, is as provided in Article 224. Article 224(1) provides that
the President may appoint duly qualified persons to be Additional Judges if
it appears to him that "by reason of any temporary increase in the business
of a High Court or by reason of arrears of work therein"the number of the
Judges of the court" should be for the time being increased" and that
appointment of Additional Judges shall be for a period not exceeding two
years. It is thus clear that the appointment of an Additional Judge depends
on the volume of work pending in the court. The maximum period of two years
was fixed presumably to introduce a measure of uniformity and to serve as a
check on the number of such appointments because the appointment of
Additional Judges was apparently considered as an exceptional measure to
meet particular situation when Article 224 in its present form was
introduced in the Constitution in 1956. As things stand at present,
however, this seems to have become a regular feature as would appear from
the chart supplied during the hearing of these petitions showing the number
of permanent and Additional Judges in the different High Courts. There can
be no dispute however that the continuance of an Additional Judge in office
is conditional upon the continued existence of arrears in a High Court.
Except that the tenure of an Additional Judge is limited depending on the
arrears of work or the temporary increase in the business of a High Court,
the position and powers of an Additional Judge and a permanent Judge are
the same. Qualifications required of a person for appointment as a Judge of
a High Court as stated in Article 217(2) are the same for both. Article
221(1) read with the Second Schedule which provides for the salaries
payable to the Judges of the High Court makes no distinction between an
Additional and a Permanent Judge. Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 provide the procedure for the removal of a Judge of the Supreme Court from
his office and Article 218 makes these provisions applicable in relation to
the Judges of a High Court. Here also there is no special provision for
Additional Judges; it cannot be suggested that an Additional Judge of a
High Court cannot be removed from office. The oath of office which a Judge
has to take before assuming office is also the same for both. 122. I have already referred to the provisions of Article 217(1) which
provides that the President must consult the Chief Justice of India, the
Governor of the State, and the Chief Justice of the High Court concerned
before appointing a person as a Judge of a High Court, whether permanent or
additional. Naturally, the fitness of a person to be appointed a Judge has
to be considered by the three functionaries and this fitness test is
applicable to both permanent and Additional Judges. Fitness must include
both capacity and integrity. It is admitted in the affidavit sworn on July
22, 1981 by Shri K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary in the Department of
Justice, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, and filed on behalf
of the Union of India that an Additional Judge is not a Judge on probation.
To say that an Additional Judge is not on probation means that his
appointment is not a tentative appointment, it is not for trying out if he
is fit to be a permanent Judge. An Additional Judge is appointed for a
certain period to cope with the temporary increase and the pending arrears
of work in a High Court. Therefore, if the volume of work still pending in
the High Court justifies the appointment of an Additional Judge, when the
term of an Additional Judge is about to expire, there seems to be no reason
why the Judge should not be appointed for another term. Shri Kankan's
affidavit however adds : "It is denied that the appointments of Additional
Judges should always be for a period of two years unless the amount of
business or arrears of work do not warrant the appointment for that period.
It is submitted that the two-year period is the ceiling mentioned in Article 224 and that the President is competent to appoint all or any
Additional Judges for any shorter period as he may consider justified."
This claim of absolute power for the government is not acceptable. The
argument is that Article 224 only fixes an outer limit of time, and the
President is therefore free to appoint Additional Judges for varying
periods of time not exceeding two years - for three months or six months -
as he pleases without reference to the volume of work pending in the High
Court. Such a claim is untenable on the language of Article 224 and
militates against the conception of independence of the judiciary. The
independence of judiciary depends to a great extent on the security of
tenure of the Judges. If the Judge's tenure is uncertain or precarious, it
will be difficult for him to perform the duties of his office without fear
or favour. On a proper reading of Article 224(1) it must be held that the
tenure of an Additional Judge is not uncertain or precarious but it is
conditional on the existence of arrears in the High Court which is an
objective condition of fact. It was pointed out on behalf of the
petitioners that the practice has always been to appoint an Additional
Judge for further period on the expiry of his previous term if the pending
work in the High Court required the services of an Additional Judge and to
appoint the seniormost among the Additional Judges as a permanent Judge
when a vacancy was available. The existence of such practice could not be
denied. However, as an Additional Judge has to be appointed again on the
expiry of his initial term, Article 217(1) is attracted. The fitness of the
Judge had been considered at the time of his initial appointment; what then
should be the scope of consultation when the appointment of an Additional
Judge for another term is contemplated. In my opinion it reasonably follows
that is such a case the scope is limited to an enquiry as to the volume of
work pending is the High Court and the time likely to be required to
dispose of the arrears. If his initial appointment was not on probation,
the Judge's capacity and integrity cannot come within the scope of the
consultation necessary under Article 217(1) for giving him another term on
the expiry of his previous term of office. 123. A question then arises, whether the Judge should be appointed for
another term if there are complaints against him regarding his integrity.
If the complaints are serious and are from a responsible source, they
cannot certainly be ignored. But, as pointed out by Mr. Seervai appearing
for the petitioners in Transfer Case No. 22 of 1981 which is Writ
Petitioner No. 527 of 1981 filed in the Bombay High Court that the
allegations cannot be presumed or assumed to be true and have to be proved.
In his letter written to the Law Minister on February 19, 1981 the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court while stating that it was his "very painful
duty not to recommend an extension for Justice Kumar", added that he had
"no investigating agency to conclusively find out whether the complaints
are genuine or not" . That being so, the only reasonable course open, which
does not undermine the independence of the judiciary, was to appoint the
Judge for another term having a rational nexus with the volume of arrears
pending in the High Court and then proceed with an inquiry into the
allegations and remove the Judge if the allegations were found true, in
accordance with the procedure laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article
124 read with Article 218. I do not think the language of Article 224(1) permits short-term extensions of the tenure of an Additional Judge to
enable the authorities to complete investigation into the allegations
against him. That being so there seems to be no possible alternative to
what has been suggested above as the proper course to follow. In the case
of Shri Kumar, admittedly there has been no real investigation into the
complaints against him. Possibly conscious of this position the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court in a letter to the Law Minister written on
May 7, 1981 said : "To my mind, the reputation of integrity is just as
important as a person actually being above-board" . This statement should
then apply to both Additional and permanent Judge, but a permanent Judge
cannot be removed from office on the ground that his reputation is bad.
From long practice, mentioned earlier, an Additional Judge has a legitimate
expectancy, if not a right, to be appointed for another term if the pending
business in the High Court requires the services of an Additional Judge, or
as a permanent Judge, when a vacancy is available, if he is the seniormost
of the Additional Judges. Refusing to appoint him again when the conditions
required an appointment to be made means in substance his removal. To
remove a permanent Judge the prescribed procedure must be followed and the
allegations against him proved; dropping an Additional Judge at the end of
his initial term of office on the ground that there are allegations against
him without properly ascertaining the truth of the allegations may be
expedient but it is destructive of the independence of the judiciary. This
would be an easy way for the executive to get rid of an inconvenient Judge.
Taking into consideration all these aspects I am of the view that the scope
of consultation contemplated in Article 217(1) , when the question is
whether an Additional Judge should be given another term, is limited to the
enquiry whether the volume of work pending in the High Court requires his
reappointment. 124. Assuming that the scope of consultation under Article 217(1) is the
same for the initial appointment of an Additional Judge and also for his
appointment for another term, it seems to me that there has been no proper
consultation in the case of Shri Kumar. In Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth Chandrachud, J. , explained what consultation means
within the meaning of Article 222(1) which provides that the President may,
after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, transfer a Judge from
one High Court to another High Court. What is said in that case should
apply also to 'consultation' for the purpose of Article 217(1). It is
observed in Sheth case : (SCC p. 227, para 37)

 "... there can be no purposeful consideration of a matter, in the absence
 of facts and circumstances on the basis of which alone the nature of the
 problem involved can be appreciated and the right decision taken. It must,
 therefore, follow that while consulting the Chief Justice, the President
 must make the relevant data available to him on the basis of which he can
 offer to the President the benefit of his considered opinion. If the facts
 necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are not made available to the
 Chief Justice, he must ask for them because, in casting on the President
 the obligation to consult the Chief Justice, the Constitution at the same
 time must be taken to have imposed a duty on the Chief Justice to express
 his opinion on nothing less than a full consideration of the matter on
 which he is entitled to be consulted. The fulfilment by the President, of
 his constitutional obligation to place full facts before the Chief Justice
 and the performance by the latter, of the duty to elicit facts which are
 necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are parts of the same process
 and are complementary to each other. The faithful observance of these may
 well earn a handsome dividend useful to the administration of justice.
 Consultation within the meaning of article 222(1) , therefore, means full
 and effective, not formal or unproductive, consultation. 125. From the facts appearing from the correspondence that passed between
the Chief Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
Chief Justice of the High Court and the Law Minister, and between the Chief
Justice of India and Law Minister, it would appear clearly that there has
been no complete and effective consultation on the question whether Shri
Kumar's term as an Additional Judge of the Delhi High Court should be
extended. It will be convenient for a proper appreciation of the matter to
set out chronologically the gist of the letters that passed between the
constitutional functionaries in Shri Kumar 's case and certain other facts : (ii) As Acting Chief Justice he constituted the Benches for the second half
of 1980 putting Justice Kumar in a Division Bench on the Appellate Side
which he thought" was a safe way to finish the rumours if the same were
incorrect and thus safeguard the reputation of a Judge". However" Justice
Kumar did not release the original suits, regarding which allegations had
been made, from his board ". The particulars of the suits and the names of
the parties were mentioned in the letter.(iii) In August 1980 the same
colleague of his who had talked to him earlier regarding Shri Kumar's
integrity and another colleague mentioned that" doubts were being expressed
about the integrity of Justice Kumar vis-a-vis the aforesaid cases and some
other ". He made discreet inquires from some of the leading counsel and
they in strict confidence supported the allegations. Looking into the
matter more carefully he found that" it was not only the three suits
mentioned above but that there were other Single Bench matters also which
had been retained by Justice Kumar on his board despite being put in the
Division Bench.... In some of these the parties involved were rich and
influential including some former Princes". 126-27. The Chief Justice added that these" unconfirmed reports"made him" The Chief Justice also mentioned certain figures to show the rate of
disposal of cases by the Division Bench of which Justice Kumar was a
member. 128. It seems from what the Chief Justice of the High Court said in his
letter of May 7, 1981 that he had not recommended extension of Justice
Kumar's term not really because he found the reports against Shri Kumar
were true - he had admittedly no "investigating machinery"- but because he
thought that reputation of integrity is as important as a man being
actually above-board. I have already said that this is a view which will
undermine the independence of the judiciary. 129. The letter of May 7, 1981 written by the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court to the Law Minister was marked "SECRET (For Personal Attention
Only)". It appears from a subsequent letter addressed by the Law Minister
to the Chief Justice of the High Court on May 29, 1981 that a few days
after the letter of May 7 was written, the Chief Justice of the High Court
had requested the Law Minister to keep that letter a secret from the Chief
Justice of India. The letter of May 29 discloses that the Chief Justice of
the High Court mentioned three reasons for not disclosing the letter to the
Chief Justice of India. The reasons as appearing from the Law Minister's
letter are as follows :1. . . . the reasons stated in the opening portion
of your letter dated May 7, 1981. 130. Probably the reference is to the following lines of May 7 letter
written by the Chief Justice of the High Court : The letter of May 29 concludes by saying that in view of the fact that the
Chief Justice of the High Court was keen on keeping the letter
"confidential form the Chief Justice of India", the letter was not shown to
him. Whether the reasons for not disclosing the letter of May 7 to the
Chief Justice of India were valid or not, it is clear that the Chief
Justice of India was not apprised of the particulars contained in the
letter of May 7 concerning Justice Kumar's integrity. It was argued on
behalf of the Union of India and the Law Minister that it must be presumed
that all the details were placed before the Chief Justice of India because
the Chief Justice of the High Court in his letter dated March 28, 1981
addressed to the Law Minister had stated that he" had an opportunity to
discuss the entire matter in detail with the Chief Justice of India "and
that in another letter written on the same day to the Chief Justice of
India he had said :" With regard to the complaints about Justice Kumar's
integrity and general conduct, the matter has already been discussed
between us. "That this presumption is wrong would appear from the following
facts. On May 21, 1981 the Law Minister had written a letter to the Chief
Justice of India when was in Simla. Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 of this letter
read as follows : There is no reference here to the letter of May 7 from the Chief Justice of
the High Court. The Chief Justice of India replied to this letter next day,
May 22, 1981 from Simla. The relevant portions of the letter are as follows
: 131. Taking the last paragraph of the (above) note first, I find it
difficult to see how, because the Chief Justice of the High Court had a
"better occasion and opportunity" to watch "his (Justice Kumar's) working
and conduct", he was in a better position to come to a correct conclusion
as to the Judge's integrity, if all the facts concerning the matter were
also placed before the Chief Justice of India; it is not like watching the
demeanour of a witness to test his credibility. As regards the statement
that the letter from the Chief Justice of the High Court furnished "clear
details which cannot easily be brushed aside", the details are only
particulars of certain suits that Justice Kumar had dealt with, but it is
difficult to follow what is sought to be conveyed by saying that these
cannot "easily be brushed aside". Mere details of the suits can indicate
nothing regarding Justice Kumar's integrity. If however by 'details' the
unconfirmed reports against Justice Kumar were also sought to be included,
no reasonable person could accept them as true without proof. As regards
the earlier portion of the note quoted above, the presumption that the
Chief Justice of the High Court must have informed the Chief Justice of
India about the details that the former had mentioned in his letter dated
May 7, 1981 addressed to the Law Minister does not appear to have any
basis. It is true the Chief Justice of the High Court in his two letters
dated March 28, 1981 written respectively to the Law Minister and the Chief
Justice of India had said that the "entire matter" concerning Justice
Kumar's integrity had been discussed between him and the Chief Justice of
India but it would be wrong to assume, though the Chief Justice of the High
Court spoke of the "entire matter", that the particulars of the suits and
the allegations against Justice Kumar concerning them were placed before
the Chief Justice of India. What was discussed between the two would appear
very clearly for the letter addressed by the Chief Justice of India to the
Law Minister on May 22, 1981. I have quoted above relevant extracts from
this letter. It is plain from this letter that when the Chief Justice of
the High Court met the Chief Justice of India on March 26, 1981 the only
thing that he disclosed was the alleged impropriety of Justice Kumar's
conduct that" even after Justice Kumar's allocation was changed from the
original side to the appellate side, he still continued to hear the part-
heard cases on the original side"and that" he continued to take old part-
heard matters even after the allocation of his work was changed ". There is
no mention of the other allegations against Justice Kumar concerning these
part-heard matters. It is impossible to think that if the details that the
Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court mentioned in his letter of May 7,
1981 addressed to the Law Minister for his "personal attention only" were
disclosed to the Chief Justice of India he would not have referred to them
in his letter on May 22. It further appears from the affidavit of Shri
Kumar, sworn on July 17, 1981, that the Chief Justice of the Delhi High
Court had not asked him any question or called for any explanation or
clarification from him regarding the allegations against him, but the Chief
Justice of India had a discussion with him only with regard to the
allegations that he was slow in his disposal and that it was improper for
him to continue to deal with the original side matters heard in part by him
while sitting on the appellate side. It is also impossible to think that
the Chief Justice of India though apprised of the allegation of corruption
against Shri Kumar would not ask for his explanation on this serious charge
and discussed only the minor allegations against him. 132. As part of the relevant material was withheld from the Chief Justice
of India it must be held that there was no full and effective consultation
as contemplated in Article 217(1) and this vitiates the decision not to
extend Shri Kumar's term of office as an Additional Judge of the Delhi High
Court though the volume of pending work in that High Court required the
services of another Judge. 133. In any event, even assuming that the Chief Justice of the Delhi High
Court had informed the Chief Justice of India of the allegation of
corruption against Shri Kumar, it is clear that it was not disclosed to
Shri Kumar and he was not given an opportunity to explain the charge
against him. Assuming again that Shri Kumar had no legal right to have his
term extended, he had at least a legitimate expectation that his tenure as
an Additional Judge would continue following the usual practice, and it
appears from the letter of the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court
written to the Law Minister on February 19, 1981 that but for the
allegations against him, Shri Kumar would have got an extension of his
tenure as an Additional Judge in view of the arrears of work in the Delhi
High Court. Consistent with the principles of natural Justice Shri Kumar
who had undoubtedly suffered an injury by his term of office not being
extended should have been given an opportunity to explain the charge of
corruption against him. The principles of natural justice apply even to a
person who has no legal right [see In re H. K. (An Infant), re QBD (1967 2
QB 617 : [1967] 1 All E.R. 226 ]. The decision against Shri Kumar cannot be
sustained on this ground as well. 134. As stated above, in reaching the decision not to extend Shri Kumar's
tenure of office, the Law Minister preferred the opinion of the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court to that of the Chief justice of India on
the view that the Chief Justice of the High Court had "better occasion and
opportunity" to watch his working and conduct. As I have already said, this
is a view which has no valid basis. Under Article 217(1) the President,
before appointing a person as a Judge of a High Court has to consult three
functionaries, the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and
the Chief Justice of the High Court; for the appointment of the Chief
Justice of the High Court, the President has to consult the Chief Justice
of India and the Governor of the State. The controversy is over the
question whether the opinion of the Chief Justice of India should have
primacy or the three functionaries must be regarded as coordinate
authorities for the purpose of Article 217(1) and the President was free to
accept the opinion of any of them. Assuming however they are coordinate
authorities in the sense that each of them must be consulted, the scope of
consultation is not the same so far as the Governor is concerned. He is
certainly not in a position to give any opinion on the legal acumen of the
persons proposed to be appointed. His opinion is relevant on matters on
which the Chief Justice of the High Court or the Chief Justice of India are
not expected to have any information. The question however remains, whose
opinion should the President accept if the Chief Justice of the High Court
and the Chief Justice of India differ ? Normally, the Chief Justice of the
High Court is likely to know more about a lawyer practising in that Court
whose name is proposed for appointment but where the question is whether or
not the tenure of an Additional Judge should be extended, if all the
relevant materials are before both, the Chief Justice of the High Court and
the Chief Justice of India, it is difficult to see how the Chief Justice of
the High Court is in a better position than the Chief Justice of India to
give a correct opinion. However, as Krishna Iyer, J., has said in Samsher
Singh case (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, the Chief Justice
of India is the"highest dignitary of Indian justice". The President has to
consult him for the appointment of the Chief Justice of a High Court. He
is, what Mr. R. K. Garg appearing for Shri S. N. Kumar in Transferred Case
No. 20 of 1981 (which is Writ Petition No. 882 of 1981 filed in the Delhi
High Court) described as the paterfamilias of the Indian judiciary. In my
view the President should accept the opinion given by the Chief Justice of
India in such a case unless the opinion suffers from any obvious infirmity;
he cannot act as an umpire and choose between the two opinions. 135. For the reasons indicated above, the decision in Shri S. N. Kumar's
case must be held invalid and the case should go back to the President for
a fresh decision after a full and effective consultation as contemplated in Article 217(1) of the Constitution. 136. The other main issue arising on these writ petitions relates to the
transfer of Judges from one High Court to another High Court. The question
of transfer arises upon a letter addressed by the Law Minister on March 18,
1981 to the Governor of Punjab and the Chief Ministers of different States,
except the North-Eastern States, stating that the Law Commission, States
Reorganisation Commission and various Bar Associations had expressed the
view that to further national integration and to combat narrow parochial
tendencies bred by caste, kinship and other local links and affiliations,
one-third of the Judges of a High Court should be from outside the State in
which that High Court is situated. The Law Minister in this letter
requested those to whom the letter was addressed to (a) obtain from all the
Additional Judges of the High Court in a State their consent to be
appointed as permanent Judges in any other High Court in the country and (b) also to obtain similar consent from those persons who have been or in
the future were likely to be proposed for appointment as Judges. The letter
also carried a request to obtain from the Additional Judges and the
proposed appointees names of three High Courts in order of preference to
which they would like to be appointed as Judges or permanent Judges as the
case may be. It was however added that it should be made clear to them that
the furnishing of the consent or the indication of a preference does not
imply any commitment on the part of the Government either in regard to
their appointment or in regard to accommodation in accordance with the
preferences given. The letter says that the written consent and preferences
of the Additional Judges and the persons recommended for initial
appointment should be sent to the Law Minister within a fortnight of the
receipt of the letter. 137. The question of transfer also arises in Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981
which is Writ Petition No. 390 of 1981 filed in the Madras High Court and
in Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 which is Writ Petition No. 2224 of 1981
in the Patna High Court. These petitions relate to the transfer of the
Chief Justice of the Patna High Court, Shri K. B. N. Singh, to the Madras
High Court. Article 222(1) says that the President may, after consultation
with the Chief Justice of India, transfer a Judge from one High Court to
any other High Court. It was argued that the letter seeking to obtain
general consent of the Additional Judges to their transfer to other High
Courts was only a device to circumvent Article 222(1) reducing the
requirement of consultation with the Chief Justice of India to a formality.
Clearly, the Constitution does not contemplate taking of such general
consent to transfer which might take place at some future dates in respect
of only some of the Judges. The letter has thus no authority of law. This
aspect has been dealt with in detail in the judgments of Tulzapurkar, J.,
and Pathak, J., which I have had the advantage of reading. I agree with
them that the said letter dated March 18, 1981 is of no consequence legally
and cannot bind or affect in any way those for whom it was intended. 138. This letter of March 18, 1981 suggests in defence of the proposed
transfer of Judges that for furthering national integration and combating
narrow parochial tendencies one-third of the Judges of a High Court should
be from outside the State in which that High Court is situated. It has been
held by a majority in Sankalchand case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , that transfer of a Judge of a High Court to
another High Court is permissible only in public interest and not by way of
punishment. One reason stated in support of the policy of transfer in the
letter of March 18, 1981 is that it would combat narrow parochial
tendencies. However, the transfer of an individual Judge on the ground that
he is guilty of parochial tendencies would be a transfer by way of
punishment and as such not permissible. If the proposed transfer is with a
view not to allow parochial tendencies to grow, then again the question
will remain who among the Judges should be transferred and to which High
Courts. Also, whether the transfer of Judges from one High Court to another
would really further national integration may be open to debate. However,
the validity of the policy does not arise for decision on these writ
petitions. Apart from its validity, to what extent the policy is relevant
in the context of Article 222(1) is a question. As held in Sankalchand case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , mass transfers are
not contemplated under Article 222(1). The President may transfer a Judge
from one High Court to another only after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India. The policy may provide the President with a ground to
suggest the transfer of a Judge, but the Chief Justice of India must
consider in each case whether the proposed transfer is in public interest
because, even granting the validity of the policy, the question would
remain who among the Judges should be transferred and to which High Courts. 139. In Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 which was Writ Petition No. 2224 of
1981 in the Patna High Court in which Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of
the Patna High Court has been transposed as a petitioner, and Transferred
Case No. 2 of 1981 which was Writ Petition No. 390 of 1981 in the Madras
High Court, the validity of the notification transferring Shri K. B. N.
Singh as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court is challenged. The
notification is challenged mainly on the ground that the order of transfer
was bad as Shri K. B. N. Singh had not consented to it, that there was no
full and effective consultation between the Central Government and the
Chief Justice of India before the order was made, and that the transfer was
not in public interest but was really by way of punishment. Tulzapurkar, J.
has dealt with this aspect of the case in detail in his judgment and I do
not propose to go over the same ground as I agree with him for the reasons
given by him that the impugned order of transfer is valid under Article
222(1) of the Constitution. 140. I would however like to add that an order of transfer even if made for
administrative reasons and in public interest is likely to cause some
injury to the Judge transferred, though that could not be valid ground for
holding that the transfer is by way of punishment; it is the reason being
the order of transfer that should determine its nature. It would be only
fair not to let the Judge who is being transferred face more difficulties
than are absolutely necessary. If the Judge is wholly unfamiliar with the
language of the State to which he is transferred, it is possible in some
cases that it will affect his efficiency. I would ask the Government to
consider if it is possible to transfer Shri K. B. N. Singh to some High
Court, consistent with his position as a senior Chief Justice, where the
language difficulty will not be so acute. 141. for the Law Minister questioned the locus standi of the petitioners in
these cases who are members of the legal profession. The question however
seems to be academic because Shri S. N. Kumar and Chief Justice K. B. N.
Singh are parties respectively in Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 and
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981; Shri S. N. Kumar, impleaded as respondent
5 in Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 has supported the petitioners in
challenging the validity of the decision not to extend his term of office
as an Additional Judge of the Delhi High Court and Shri K. B. N. Singh
transposed as petitioner in Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 has challenged
the notification transferring him to the Madras High Court. Apart from the
fact that they are both parties, for the reasons given by Bhagwati, J. and
Tulzapurkar, J. in their respective Judgments I agree with them that the
petitioners who are practising advocates of different High Courts are
competent to maintain the petitions. 142. In the course of the hearing of these petitions we had made two orders
for the disclosure of certain documents. The reasons in support of these
orders will appear from the Judgment of Bhagwati, J. with which I agree. 143. The petitions shall be disposed of in accordance with the conclusions
reached on the various points arising for decision in these petitions. Fazal Ali, J. - Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 144. The petitioners, Advocates practising in the High Court of Bombay,
filed a Writ Petition No. 527 of 1981 before the Bombay High Court
challenging the constitutionality of Ex. 'A', a circular said to have been
issued by the Union Law Minister on March 18, 1981 and addressed to the
Governor of Punjab and Chief Ministers of States (except the North-Eastern
States). The petitioners prayed for several reliefs to which we shall refer
hereafter. The writ petition was transferred to this Court with the consent
of the parties by an order dated June 9, 1981. 145. The petitioners alleged that the Union Law Minister who was respondent
1 in the original writ petition had issued a circular letter dated March
18, 1981 (hereafter referred to as the 'circular') to the Governor of
Punjab and the Chief Ministers of States requesting them to obtain the
consent of Additional Judges of the High Courts concerned to their transfer
as permanent Judges of High Courts other than those in which they were
appointed as Additional Judges. We shall give details of this circular when
we deal with it. The circular was received by the Chief Justice of the
Bombay High Court on March 29, 1981 and on March 30, 1981 he addressed a
letter to the Additional Judge (respondents 3 to 12) and asked them to do
the needful. The said circular seems to have created a serious upheaval in
the rank and file of the lawyers of Bombay Bar resulting in a special
general meeting of the Advocates Association of Western India on April 3,
1981. It is alleged in the petition that the meeting was largely attended
and a unanimous resolution was passed, inter alia, condemning the circular
as being subversive of judicial independence and demanding that the
government be directed to withdraw the circular. The furore on the circular
seems to have infiltrated into the Bombay Bar Association which also held
several meetings and similar resolutions were passed. On April 14, 1981 a
meeting of the Managing Committee of the Bombay Incorporated Society passed
similar resolutions and also resolved that the President of the Society
should join as a petitioner, as a result of which the fourth petitioner was
added as one of the petitioners. As a mark of serious protest against the
circular and the discourteous language in which the said document
(circular) is alleged to have been expressed, the legal practitioners
practising in the High Court, city civil courts, Small Cause Courts and the
police courts resolved not to attend those courts on April 15, 1981. The
petitioners further alleged that they represented a large body of legal
opinion of Bombay as also representing public interest in a free and
independent judiciary which was the very bulwark of the democratic form of
Government contemplated by the Constitution. In the writ petition, which
has now been transferred to this Court, the petitioners sought the
following reliefs :(a) that it may be declared that the said letter, Ex.'A'
to the petition, is ultra vires and void; (b) that it may be declared that the consent if any consequent on or
arising from the said letter given by an Additional Judge or any person
whose name has been or is to be submitted for his appointment as a Judge is
null and void; (c) that this Hon'ble Court will be pleased to issue an order or direction
under Article 226 quashing the said letter Ex. 'A', and the consent, if
any, obtained from any person following on or as a result of the said
letter; (d) that in the alternative to prayer (c) above this Hon'ble Court will be
pleased to issue a writ of mandamus (or any other writ, order or direction)
directing respondents 1 and 2 to withdraw the said letter and to abstain
from using or in any manner acting on the consent, if any, obtained from
any person following on or arising from the said letter. 146. The petitioners also prayed for an ad interim injunction pending
hearing of the petition. This seems to have been the reaction of the Bombay
lawyers to the aforementioned circular. Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 147. Another writ petition was filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde, a senior
Advocate of the Supreme Court in the High Court of Delhi making Union of
India, Justice O. N. Vohra, Justice S. N. Kumar and Justice S. B. Wad as
respondents and alleging that the independence of judiciary which was
essential for the preservation of civil liberty was being eroded by the
actions of the Government, viz., short-term appointment of Additional
Judges for 3-4 months and short extensions granted after the term was over.
Another grievance made regarding the circular issued by the Union Law
Minister compelling more than 100 Additional Judges all over the country to
give their consent for being appointed as permanent Judges outside their
State on the pain of being dropped was that this was an indirect method of
bypassing the consultative process contemplated by Article 222. 148. Apart from these apprehensions the petitioner made serious allegations
the purport of which was that a consistent campaign had been launched by
some of the Ministers of Central Government and Chief Ministers of States
against the higher judiciary. In this connection, statements of a Cabinet
Minister and some Chief Ministers were mentioned. Referring to some
concrete cases it was alleged that although permanent vacancies in the High
Court of Delhi were available yet Justice Goswami and Justice Sultan Singh
instead of being made permanent Judges were appointed as Additional Judges
for a period of two years in July and August 1980 respectively whereas
Justice Vohra as an Additional Judge only for three months. It was further
alleged that two more Additional Judges, viz., Justice Kumar and Justice
Wad were appointed for three months. According to the allegations made by
the petitioner, the terms of the aforesaid three Judges, Justices Vohra,
Kumar and Wad was to expire on June 6, 1981. It appears that after the term
of Justice Vohra and Justice Kumar expired on June 6, 1981, the Central
Government did not reappoint them as a result of which they were sent back
to the Bar. Justice Vohra did not file any petition and instead started his
practice. 149. The writ petition filed by Mr. Tarkunde in the High Court of Delhi was
also transferred to this Court and was numbered as Transferred Case No. 20
of 1981. While this case was pending in this Court the term of Justice
Kumar expired and at his request he was impleaded and transposed as third
respondent in the case so that he may be in a position to defend his cause.
The petition of Mr. Tarkunde apart from challenging the circular has also
assailed the refusal of the Government to grant further extension to
Justice Kumar and Justice Vohra. As Justice Vohra's case was not pressed it
is not necessary for us to go into the circumstances under which the term
of Justice Vohra was not extended.Transferred Case No. 19 of 1981 150. This petition has been filed by Mr. S. P. Gupta against the President,
Union of India, Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court and the Governor
of U.P. In view of similar petitions having been transferred to this Court,
this petition was also transferred to this Court from the Allahabad High
Court by an order dated May 1, 1981. In this petition, the following
reliefs were prayed : Transferred Case No. 21 of 1981 151. A petition exactly similar to the one filed by Mr. S. P. Gupta was
also filed by Mr. J. L. Kalra, Advocate and others in the Delhi High Court
which was also transferred to this Court by an Order dated May 1, 1981
along with the case of Mr. S. P. Gupta. In this case, the following reliefs
were sought :(a) issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ,
order or direction commanding the respondent to assess the number of
permanent and Additional judges required for this Hon'ble Court having
regard to its current business and the accumulated arrears of work and
create such number of permanent and Additional posts of Judges as may be
required, within such reasonable time as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit,
in accordance with law; (b) direct the respondent to appoint Hon'ble Mr. Justice N. N. Goswamy,
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sultan Singh and Hon'ble Mr. Justice O. N. Vohra as
permanent Judges of this Hon'ble Court against the three vacant permanent
posts forthwith; (c) direct the respondent to extend the term of the additional Judges
namely Hon'ble Mr. Justice S. N. Kumar and Hon'ble Mr. Justice S. B. Wad by
a period of two years within two weeks from the date of the order; (d) direct the respondent likewise to confirm/extend the terms of the
Additional Judges of the High Courts of Madhya Pradesh, Punjab & Haryana
and Rajasthan, whose names are mentioned in Paragraph 5 of this petition; (e) direct that no such piecemeal extension, but a reasonably long term
shall be given to the other Additional Judges of this Hon'ble Court as well
as of other High Courts in future. 152. Apart from these petitions which have been transferred to this Court
other petitions were also filed against the order of the President
transferring Justice Ismail, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court to be
the Chief Justice of Kerala High Court and Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of the Patna High Court to be the Chief Justice of Madras High
Court. 153. This writ petition was filed by Miss Lily Thomas, an Advocate of the
Supreme Court challenging the order of transfer of Justice Ismail form
Madras High Court to Kerala High Court. While the petition was pending,
Justice Ismail chose to retire from service and hence the petition became
infructuous so far as the main relief was concerned. Miss Thomas, however,
pressed the petition only on one ground, viz., that even if the grievance
against the transfer of Justice Ismail no longer survived yet she was
entitled to contest her order of the President of India transferring
Justice K. B. N. Singh from Patna High Court to Madras High Court. She was
permitted to argue the case on this limited point.Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981 154. Another petition was filed by Mr. Rajappa, Advocate in the Madras High
Court being Writ Petition 3 of 1981 praying that the orders of the
President of India transferring Chief Justice of the Madras High Court to
the Kerala High Court and the Chief Justice of the Patna High Court to the
Madras High Court be quashed on the ground that they were null and void and
unconstitutional. This case was also transferred to this Court and numbered
as Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981. This case, therefore, raises
substantially the same questions as are involved in Writ Petition No. 274
of 1981. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 155. So far as the case of Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of the
Patna High Court is concerned, Mr. D. N. Pandey, Secretary of the Bihar
State Socialist Lawyers Association along with Thakur Ramapati Sinha filed
a Writ Petition No. CMJC 2224 of 1981 in the Patna High Court against the
Union of India, the Chief Justice of India, Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh,
Chief Justice of the Patna High Court and the Registrar, Patna High Court.
Justice K. B. N. Singh, respondent 3, later after filing an affidavit in
this Court prayed that he may be transposed to the category of petitioner.
He was directed to file a detailed affidavit which was filed on September
16, 1981 and he was transposed as petitioner 3. This petition was also
transferred to this Court as similar points were involved. In this
petition, the petitioners prayed that the order of the President
transferring Justice K. B. N. Singh be quashed and the respondents be
directed not to give effect to the notification issued by the President
transferring petitioner 3 to Madras. 156. A similar Writ Petition No. 553 of 1981 was filed by Mr. P.
Subramanian before the Madras High Court praying that the order of the
President transferring Justice Ismail from the Madras High Court to Kerala
High Court be quashed. This petition also does not survive in view of the
retirement of Justice Ismail.Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.. 1509 of 1981 157. This petition has been filed by Ripudaman Prasad Sinha praying for a
writ of the quo warranto against Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice,
Patna High Court for not proceeding to join his new posting at Madras and
in continuing as Chief Justice of Patna High Court without any sanction of
law in view of the order of the President transferring him to Madras.
Special leave has not yet been granted in this petition but it has been
tagged on with the cases relating to Justice K. B. N. Singh but ultimately
withdraw before conclusion of hearing of their cases. 158. Since the various writ petitions and intervenor applications
transferred to this Court raised almost common questions, they were heard
together but so far as the petitions relating to Justice K. B. N. Singh,
Chief Justice of the Patna High Court are concerned they were delinked.
After having heard Dr. Singhvi, counsel for the petitioners, on the point
of law regarding the interpretation of Article 222 of the Constitution, we
proceeded to deal with the questions of law and the constitutional points
raised in the petitions of Mr. Chagla, Mr. Tarkunde, Mr. S. P. Gupta and
others as also the constitutional points involved in Justice K. B. N.
Singh 's case. So far as Justice K. B. N. Singh 's case is concerned we
delinked it from other cases because his was the only case which had to be
heard on facts turning upon mainly on the question - whether or not there
was an effective consultation between the Chief Justice of India, the
President of India and the Chief Justice concerned, viz., Justice K. B. N.
Singh. 159. As these petitions more or less involve common and overlapping points,
we shall dispose them of by one common judgment but deal with individual
cases separately wherever necessary.Transferred Cases Nos. 19 and 22 of 1981 160. We would first deal with the question relating to the various facets,
shades and aspects of Article 222 of the Constitution as contended before
us by Messrs. Seervai, Sorabjee, Dr. Singhvi and others during their
respective turns. 161. So far as Mr. Seervai is concerned his contentions on the
interpretation of Article 222 , apart from its legislative history and
setting, may be indicated as follows : Even if it is not so, then the main object of Article 222 is not very clear
and plain and therefore, it is necessary to go into the legislative history
of the Doctrine of Transfer in order to ascertain the real intention of the
Founding Fathers of the Constitution and, if so read, it would be amply
clear that even if Article 222(1) does not expressly mention 'consent', the
same must be implied in the article by necessary intendment. (2) As transfer of a High Court Judge from one High Court to another is an
extraordinary phenomenon and has to be made in public interest, we must
read consent of the Judge concerned before he can be transferred under Article 222 , otherwise the very purpose and object of the article would be
defeated. (3) As a transfer without consent of a Judge amounts to punishment, such a
transfer involves a serious stain and stigma. Hence, in order to avoid such
an anomalous position it should be held that no Judge can be transferred
under Article 222 from one High Court to another without his consent. In the same token it was argued by Dr. Singhvi that before transferring a
Judge various aspects of public interest have to be examined qua the
circumstances under which the Judge is transferred - the compelling reasons
why the transfer is being made and the personal difficulties or hardships
that the Judge may suffer as a result of his transfer. In other words, by
and large, it was contended that non-consensual transfers should be
considered to be prima facie punitive and, therefore, violative of Article
124(4) because if they amount to punishment then the punishment can only be
for his misbehaviour or incapacity as contemplated by Article 124(4) and
the procedure established by the Constitution for impeachment. We shall,
however, develop the detailed aspect of the arguments of Dr. Singhvi when
we deal with the same at a later stage.(4) It would appear from the
historical background of Article 222 that a transfer of a Judge from one
High Court to another really amounts to a fresh appointment as a Judge to
the transferee court because before taking oath in the transferee court,
the Judge has to vacate his office of the original court and thereby he
ceases to be a Judge in the legal sense of the term of the transferor court
although for purposes of pension, allowances and salary, etc., he continues
to be a Judge by virtue of a legal fiction. As no person can be appointed as a Judge of the High Court in the first
instance against his consent the same principle will apply mutatis mutandis
to a Judge who is transferred from one High Court to another because his
transfer to the transferee court would amount to his first appointment. In
other words, the argument comes to this that once an order of transfer is
passed by the President of India under Article 222 , the Judge so
transferred dies a civil death in the original High Court where he was
appointed and takes a new birth in the new High Court where he is
transferred. (5) That if a transfer is made by the President without the consent of a
Judge, it will seriously undermine and impair the independence of the
judiciary which is doubtless the basic structure of our Constitution. (6) That the majority decision of this Court in Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth (hereinafter referred to as 'Sheth
case') merits a second look and since the present is a large Bench
consisting of seven Judges, the previous decision should be reconsidered
and the view taken therein that consent is not necessary for the
application of Article 222 , must be overruled. 162. Thus, the sum and substance of the contentions raised by Mr. Seervai
is that the words 'with his consent' should be read into Article 222(1) after the words 'transfer a Judge'. 163. Messrs. Sorabjee, R. K. Garg and S. P. Gupta who followed Mr. Seervai
adopted his arguments in toto so far as the interpretation of Article 222 is concerned. They, however, laid greater emphasis on the question of
primacy of the Chief Justice of India (hereinafter referred to as'CJI') and
contended that the opinion of the CJI was final and binding on the
President or on the Council of Ministers who should tender advice to the
President in accordance with the opinion expressed by the CJI if
independence of judiciary was to be ensured. 164. Dr. Singhvi while adopting the arguments of Mr. Seervai submitted that
a transfer without consent affects a Judge adversely and results in evil
consequences and virtually amounts to a punishment which is worse than
removal but he laid greater stress on the efficacy of the consultative
process by the constitutional authorities concerned and a proper meeting
and application of minds before a transfer is ordered. Other aspects and
conditions of Article 222 relating to the nature and content of
consultation will be examined when we deal with the case of D. N. Pandey
(Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981) in which the Chief Justice of Patna High
Court has been transposed as a petitioner. 165. These are the broad contentions advanced before us by the counsel for
the parties in these petitions. 166. The Attorney-General, the Solicitor-General and Mr. Mridul appearing
for the Law Minister have countered all the arguments advanced by the
petitioners and have fully defended the impugned orders, the circular and
the transfer of Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of the Patna High
Court to Madras High Court. We shall indicate the arguments in opposition
when we deal with the arguments of the counsel for the petitioners. 167. Thus, from the facts disclosed in the various petitions and in the
light of the arguments advanced before us by the counsel for the parties,
the following points arise for determination : (b) Is the opinion of CJI entitled to primacy; where the two constitutional
functionaries, namely, CJ of a High Court and CJI differ, does the adverse
opinion of either of them operate as a veto against appointment; where both
the CJ of a High Court and CJI agree upon accepting or rejecting a
candidate for appointment, can the executive take a different view and
appoint or decide not to appoint ? (c) Who can initiate the proposal for appointment under this article ? (d) Whether consultation is necessary in case the Executive decides not to
appoint a person ? (e) Does this article apply when an Additional Judge is to be appointed for
a further term or as a permanent Judge. (f) Scope of judicial review in case of appointment or non-appointment. 3. Policy of General Transfers (a) Is the general policy of transfers of all CJs so that every State has a
CJ from outside, good, valid and constitutional and in public interest ? (b) Can this policy be formulated and laid down by a declaration made by
the President or an executive order of the Council of Ministers without any
legislation ? (c) Is the policy of recruiting one-third Judges from outside the State
good, valid and constitutional and, if so, what should be the mechanism for
implementing the said policy and the manner of its formulation ? (d) Has it been shown that the aforesaid policy has already been evolved,
formulated and finalised by the Central Government ? 4. Article 216 (a) What is the scope of the power of the President under this article ? (b) Is the exercise of the power by the President under this article
amenable to the judicial review and, if so, to what extent ? 5. Article 224 (a) What are the conditions and circumstances under which Additional Judges
can be appointed ? (b) On the expiration of his term, is an Additional Judge entitled to be
continued automatically, if the conditions for appointment of an Additional
Judge continue to exist or is he again liable to be subjected to the
process of Article 217. (c) Does the additional Judge have a right to be considered for appointment
for a further term or as permanent Judge on expiration of his term or he
can be just dropped without any consideration at all. (i) Is there any convention that an Additional Judge must on the expiration
of his term be continued for a further term or be appointed permanent Judge
and if so, what is its legal effect on the interpretation of Articles 217 and 224. (ii) If there is no convention, is there a practice to the above effect
and, if so, what is its effect. (d) Can an Additional Judge be appointed when a permanent post is vacant : 6. Article 222 (a) Who can initiate the proposal for transfer of High Court Judge ? (b) Is consent of a Judge to be transferred necessary before he can be
transferred ? (c) What is the nature and effect of the consultation with CJI ? (d) Does the requirement of public interest limit the exercise of the power
of transfer under this article ?(e) What is the nature of public interest
for which transfer of a High Court Judge can be effected ? (f) Can a Judge be transferred on account of complaints or grievances
against him or on account of anything in his conduct or behaviour ? 7. Circular letter dated March 18, 1981 8. Claim of privilege against disclosure 9. Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981

Whether there was full and effective consultation; if not, what relief can
be granted. 10. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981

Whether there was full and effective consultation between the Government
and CJI; whether the transfer of K. B. N. Singh was effected in public
interest. 168. We first propose to deal with the various aspects of Article 222 , the
question of privilege, the nature and extent of consultative process under Article 222 , the legal effect of the circular and its constitutionality. 169. Coming to the interpretation of Article 222 , the first question that
falls for determination is as to whether or not consent can be read into Article 222 as argued by the counsel for the petitioners. To begin with,
this matter was fully considered in Sheth case where the majority
judgment considered almost all the aspects of the matter and held that
consent cannot be read into Article 222 and a transfer of a Judge from one
High Court to another High Court can be made even without his consent
subject to effective consultation which has been explained by all the
Judges. In that case Bhagwati, J. and Untwalia, J. dissented from the
majority decision and took the view that no transfer of one High Court
Judge to another High Court can be made without his consent. In other words
the minority was of the view that the word 'consent' has to be read into Article 222 having regard to the extraordinary circumstances in which such
a power is exercised and the constitutional position of a Judge. Normally,
the decision in Sheth case would have concluded the matter because
in the instant case also the points raised are more or less similar but the
arguments advanced before us in these cases have revealed many more aspects
which may not have been before this Court in Sheth case and have
opened new vistas which undoubtedly require a further consideration.
Moreover , in that case the stand taken by the Union of India was that the
matter may be decided as a sort of an academic question as the transfers
made by the previous Government would be nullified by retransferring them.
In view of this concession made by the Union of India in that case it was
not necessary for this Court to go deep into the matter because ultimately
the decision would turn out to be purely academic. 170. Thirdly, as the question of general policy of transfer has clearly
arisen in these cases and lot of material has been produced before us to
justify both the constitutionality and the legality of this policy, Article
222 as also the consultative process now assume a new complexion. 171. For these reasons, therefore, we are of the opinion that the judgment
in Sheth case may be reconsidered in the light of the fresh facts
which have emerged since then though ultimately we may reach the same
conclusions as held by the majority judgment. 172. We shall now examine the first limb of the contention of Mr. Seervai
that the word 'consent' should be read into Article 222. It cannot be
doubted that a transfer under Article 222 must be made in public interest
and it was so held in Sheth case by all the Judges who were
completely unanimous on this aspect of the matter. In this connection,
Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) observed thus : (SCC pp. 217-18, para 15)

The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution
in public interest and not for the purpose of providing the executive with
a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some
reason or the other, has fallen from its grace. (SCR p. 444)

And Bhagwati, J. made the following observations : (SCC p. 234, para 47)

One thing is, however, certain that the power to transfer a Judge from one
High Court to another under Article 222 , clause (1) can be exercised only
in public interest. . . Krishna Iyer, J., speaking for himself and one of us (Fazal Ali, J.)
expressed his views thus : (SCC p. 263, para 92)Indeed, the independence of
the judiciary is itself a necessitous desideratum of public interest and so
interference with it is impermissible except where other considerations of
public interest are so strong, and so exercised as not to militate
seriously against the free flow of public justice. And Untwalia, J. in his judgment struck an identical note and observed as
follows : (SCC p. 278, para 127)

It was, however, accepted by all concerned that the transfer can be made
only in public interest or on the ground of public policy which sometimes
has been characterised by eminent jurists as an unruly horse. 173. This position is also conceded by the Attorney-General, the Solicitor-
General and Mr. Mridul. The main reason why this Court had held that the
transfer of a Judge from one high Court to another should be in public
interest was that the President should not exercise power by way of
victimisation or to impede the free flow of public justice or as
Chandrachud, J., put it "for an extraneous of collateral purpose". Where,
however, the compelling circumstances and the exigencies of administration
or situation are objectively considered and it becomes necessary for the
exercise of this power, these factors would constitute public interest to
justify the exercise of the power by the President under Article 222. In
the instant case, a general and unanimous policy of transfer of Judges and
Chief Justices of High Courts to promote national integration and suppress
fissiparous tendencies,, would doubtless be in public interest. Although Article 222 does not contain the words 'public interest' in so many words
but (sic from) the very exercise of the power, which is not a normal power
but an exceptional one, it follows as a logical consequence that public
interest is a necessary concomitant of the exercise of this power. 174. The question that now arises is if it can be said on a party of
reasoning that 'consent' also should be read as a part and parcel of the
exercise of the power under Article 222. It is difficult to accede to this
contention because if a Judge cannot be transferred without his consent
then the power loses its significance and becomes an immunity to a Judge
from transfer by withholding his consent. Thus, a power which is to be
exercised by the President can be defeated or stalled by a simple act of
the Judge in refusing to give his consent to the transfer. This could never
have been the intention of the Founding Fathers of the Constitution. Article 222 may be extracted thus : (2) When a Judge has been or is so transferred, he shall, during the period
he serves, after the commencement of the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment)
Act, 1963 as a Judge of the other High Court, be entitled to receive in
addition to his salary such compensatory allowance as may be determined by
Parliament by law and, until so determined, such compensatory allowance as
the President may by order fix. 175. A perusal of Article 222 unmistakably shows that it is expressed in
absolutely clear, explicit, intelligible, plain and unambiguous language
which admits of no vagueness or ambiguity. Mr. Seevai, however, by an
involved process of reasoning wants us to import the concept of 'consent'
by reading the same into the article by way of necessary intendment of the
Parliament. It is not the function of the court to supply words to suit a
particular course of action so as to be acceptable to a particular set of
persons as a doctrine of implied consent. It is just like first raising a
ghost and then trying to kill it. Before we enter into a detailed
discussion of the Rules of Interpretation of Statutes we might indicate
that there is intrinsic evidence in the various constitutional provisions
which clearly show that the word 'consent' has been dropped by the
legislature deliberately or it is a case of deliberate omission rather than
casus omissus. In order to drive home our point we would give a brief
survey of the scheme of the Constitution regarding the expressions
'consent', 'concurrence' or 'consultation' used in various articles to
determine the context, the purport and the intention of the Founding
Fathers of the Constitution. 176. Take, for instance, Article 127 which expressly deals with previous
consent of the President, and may be extracted thus : (2) It shall be the duty of the Judge who has been so designated, in
priority to other duties of his office, to attend the sittings of the
Supreme Court at the time and for the period for which his attendance is
required, and while so attending he shall have all the jurisdiction, powers
and privileges, and shall discharge the duties, of a Judge of the Supreme
Court. 177. This article may be divided into four parts - (1) that there should be a lack of quorum of the Judges of the Supreme
Court

(2) that the Chief Justice of India may with the previous consent of the
President and

(3) after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court

(4) request in writing the attendance, as an ad hoc Judge, for such period
as may be necessary of a Judge of a High Court duly qualified for
appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court. 178. Clause (2) of the article provides that it shall be the duty of the
Judge to attend the sittings. 179. It would thus appear that when the Constituent Assembly intended that
there should be consent, it has said so in very clear terms. The first part
clearly shows that the power under Article 127(1) can be exercised only
with the previous consent of the President and not otherwise. Similarly, in
the second part, the word 'consultation' is used and in clause (2) the word
'duty' is used which completely rules out 'consent'. An analysis of this
article clearly shows that whenever the Constitution intended a particular
expression to have a particular meaning it has made its intention clear and
unambiguous by using the word 'duty', 'consent' or 'consultation'. 180. Article 128 requires consent of the President before an offer is made
to a retired Judge to act as an hoc Judge of the Supreme Court. Proviso to Article 128 may be extracted thus : 181. This proviso clearly enjoins that the ad hoc Judge cannot be requested
to sit in the court unless he consents to do so. Indeed, if the intention
of the Constituent Assembly was that a transfer could not be made without
the consent of the Judge, then a similar expression as contained in the
proviso or something like that would have been used in Article 222(1). The
absence of any such expression shows that the Constituent Assembly
deliberately omitted 'consent' by necessary intendment. 182. Article 224-A deals with the appointment of retired Judges at sittings
of High Courts which may be extracted thus : 183. The provisions of this article make the exercise of powers conditional
on the consent of the Judge concerned. In Chandra Mohan v. State of U.P. this Court has clearly indicated that where the Constitution intended particular
expressions to be used it has expressed its intention clearly and observed
thus :Wherever the Constitution intended to provide more than one
consultant, it has said so : see Articles 124(2) and 217(1). Whereever the
Constitution provided for consultation of a single body or individual it
said so : see Article 222. Article 124(2) goes further and makes a
distinction between persons who shall be consulted and persons who may be
consulted. 184. Article 258 runs thus : (2) A law made by Parliament which applies in any State may,
notwithstanding that it relates to a matter with respect to which the
Legislature of the State has no power to make laws, confer powers, and
impose duties, or authorise the conferring of powers and the imposition of
duties, upon the State or officers and authorities thereof. (3) Where by virtue of this article powers and duties have been conferred
or imposed upon a State or officers or authorities thereof, there shall be
paid by the Government of India to the State such sum as may be agreed, or,
in default of agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator appointed by
the Chief Justice of India, in respect of any extra costs of administration
incurred by the State in connection with the exercise of those powers and
duties. 185. Here also, the President has to exercise his powers with the consent
of the Government of a State either conditionally or unconditionally. In
other words, where the power conferred on the President is to be exercised
with consent, the Founding Fathers of the Constitution have expressly said
so in the concerned articles. On a parity of reasoning, therefore, if the
intention of the Founding Fathers was to make 'consent' an essential
ingredient of Article 222 , they would have used the expression 'the
President may, with the consent of the Judge concerned, transfer a Judge
from one High Court to another'. The fact that Article 258 requires the
President to act with the consent of the Government of a State, which is
also a constitutional authority; the same principle will apply to a High
Court Judge who is also a constitutional authority. Therefore, this leads
to the irresistible conclusion that the word 'consent' was never intended
to be included in the powers to be exercised under Article 222. 186. Article 258-A runs thus : 187. Here also, the Governor of a State has to exercise a particular power
only with the consent of the Government of India and not otherwise. This
also shows that the Founding Fathers were fully aware of the situations
where consent is necessary and where it is not. 188. Article 254 deals with the legislative powers of the Centre and the
States. Clause (2) of Article 254 provides thus : 189. It is obvious that here as a legislation is concerned, the expression
used is 'assent' and not 'consent' though both the terms are synonymous.
The use of the word 'assent' is generally made when we are dealing with
statutory enactments. 190. Sub-clause (ii) of clause (1) of article 370 may be extracted thus : 191. The laws mentioned in Article 370 can be applied to the State of Jammu
& Kashmir only with the concurrence of the Government of the State. Here
the word 'concurrence', which is stronger than 'consent', has been used to
indicate and maintain the special status given to that State. Certain
aspects of this matter have been clearly pointed out by Krishna Iyer, J. in Sheth case thus : (SCC p. 272, para 109)

It would thus appear that the Constitution itself specifies 'consent' where
it is intended and omits it when unnecessary. If, therefore, the
Constitution-makers intended that under Article 222 a Judge cannot be
transferred from one High Court to another without his consent then it
should have been expressly so mentioned in the Constitution. 192. We have given these clear instances to drive home the point that
whenever the Founding Fathers intended that a particular expression should
be used in an Article as a condition precedent to the exercise of a
particular power, the same has been mentioned and where no such intention
was there the expressions have not been used. As against this, Mr. Seervai
submitted that in Article 217 , which provides for the appointment of High
Court Judges, it has nowhere been indicted that the Judge proposed to be
appointed should give his consent to the appointment. In Sheth case 
Krishna Iyer, J. while dealing with an identical argument observed as
follows : (SCC p. 270, para 107)

It would be seen that in this constitutional provision the words" 193. We stick to the view expressed by Krishna Iyer, J. in the majority
judgment. The argument of Mr. Seervai appears to be fallacious because this
analogy cannot be applied to a Judge who after being appointed is
transferred under Article 222. It is obvious that there is no provision in
the Constitution empowering the President to appoint for the first time a
person as a Judge of a High Court against his consent and even if he is
appointed, the person so appointed can refuse to act as a Judge and if he
does so the matter ends there and he cannot be compelled to act as a Judge.
Once, however, the person decides to accept the appointment of a Judge of a
High Court he becomes a constitutional functionary and therefore would be
subject to the provisions of the Constitution because before deciding to
accept the appointment he must be presumed to be aware of the
constitutional provisions contained in the various Articles regarding High
Court Judges, viz., the conditions of service, the salary and other
allowances, the date of retirement and also the provision regarding
transfer as provided for in Article 222 which does not contain the word
'consent'. It would thus not be open to any Judge to complain that he had
been transferred against his consent or to plead that had he known this he
may not have accepted the office of a High Court Judge. As the word
'consent' is conspicuously absent from Article 222 , such a plea cannot in
the very nature of things be permitted to be taken by the concerned Judge.
If he does not want to be transferred, it is always open to him to resign
for which also there is a clear provision under proviso (a) to clause (1)
of Article 217. Therefore, the argument of Mr. Seervai must be overruled. 194. These are the intrinsic circumstances to show that the Founding
Fathers did not intend to use the word 'consent' in Article 222 deliberately. We have already held that Article 222 is expressed in the
clearest possible terms. But, assuming for the sake of argument as urged by
Mr. Seervai, that there is some element of ambiguity either in the setting
and pattern of Article 222 or in the real object which it seeks to
subserve, which according to Mr. Seervai finds ample support from the fact
that two Judges in Sheth case have taken the view which is being
propounded by the learned counsel, we would attempt to construe Article 222 in the light of the well-settled rules of interpretation of statutes. 195. Before, however, we discuss the various books, reference and
authorities we must take into consideration a very weighty circumstances
which is peculiar to our Constitution as also to the American Constitution.
It must be remembered that in England if any error is committed by a Court
of Appeal, it may be corrected by the House of Lords or eventually by
Parliament by a simple majority. Similarly, in Australia also if the High
Court gives a wrong interpretation of a particular constitutional provision
it can be set right by the Privy Council by an appeal against the said
order of a High Court and the Parliament may amend the statute to bring it
in conformity with the intention and that too by a simple majority. The
position so far as our country is concerned is similar to that of America
and if any error of interpretation of a constitutional provision is
committed by the Supreme Court or any interpretation which is considered to
be wrong by the Government can be rectified only by a constitutional
amendment which is a very complicated, complex, delicate and difficult
procedure requiring not merely a simple majority but two-third majority of
the Members present and voting. Apart from the aforesaid majority, in most
cases the amendment has to be ratified by a majority of the States. In
these circumstances, therefore, this Court which lays down the law of the
land under Article 141 must be extremely careful and circumspect in
interpreting statutes, more so constitutional provisions, so as to obviate
the necessity of a constitutional amendment every time which, as we have
already mentioned, is an extremely onerous task. S. R. Das. C.J. in the
case of Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar expressly referred to this aspect of the
matter and observed as follows :An erroneous interpretation of the
Constitution may quite conceivably be perpetuated or may at any rate remain
unrectified for a considerable time to the great determent to public well
being. 196. Having carefully interpreted a particular provision of the
Constitution, the Court should as far as possible stick to the doctrine of
stare decisis. It must be remembered that as Lord Wright pointed out in
James v. Common-wealth of Australia (No. 2) [1936] A.C. 578 : [1936] 2 All
E.R. 1449: 155 LT 393 (PC)) that a Constitution is a federal component and
the constituent must hold a balance between all its parts. 197. Thus, so far as the general principles regarding interpretation of
statutes are concerned they are now will settled beyond any controversy for
the last two centuries in almost all the countries of the world having a
democratic constitution or pattern of Government. As far as this Court is
concerned, on some points decisions during the first decade of its
existence were somewhat inconsistent but generally the view which found
favour with most of the Judges during the first decade was that the
methodology of interpretation of statutes should be the same for
constitutional provisions as it is for statutory provisions. It has further
been held that external aids like Parliamentary Debates, Report of the
Drafting or Select Committees, the Objects and Reasons of the Act are
wholly inadmissible for the purpose of interpreting the provisions of a
statute which would depend entirely on the language of the provisions
concerned. Here also, some of the cases have held that where the language
of the provisions is shrouded in obscurity or is not fully intelligible so
as to ascertain or find out the objects of the Act, external aids may be
permissible. So far as speeches made by a minister is concerned, it has
been consistently held to be wholly inadmissible because it represents the
individual view of a single person with which the majority of the Members
of Parliament may or may not have agreed. 198. During the second and third decade this Court made a prominent shift
from the original stand and a long course of recent decisions have
permitted Parliamentary Debates or Reports of Drafting or Select Committees
to be taken into consideration for the purpose of ascertaining the object
or the real meaning of the language employed in a statutory or
constitutional provision. 199. But there is one principle on which there is complete unanimity of all
the courts in the world and this is that where the words or the language
used in a statute are clear and cloudless, plain, simple and explicit
unclouded and unobscured, intelligible and pointed so as to admit of no
ambiguity, vagueness, uncertainty or equivocation, there is absolutely no
room for deriving support from external aids. In such cases, the statute
should be interpreted on the face of the language itself without adding,
subtracting or omitting words therefrom. 200. It is equally well settled that it is not the duty of the court to
import words which have been omitted deliberately or intentionally in order
to fill up a gap or supply omissions to fit in with the ideology or concept
of the Judge concerned. The words and the language used must be given their
natural meaning and interpreted in their ordinary and popular sense. 201. There may be a third type of cases which may be on the border line -
where the language may admit of two interpretations in which case the court
may consider the desirability of resorting to external aids in order to
catch and delve into the spirit and object of the statute. 202. These principles have been enunciated over the years by several
authorities of various courts to which I shall refer hereafter. Before,
however, going to the authorities, it may be necessary to refer to extracts
from the various books of legal scholars on the interpretation of statutes. 203. Crawford in his book captioned Statutory Construction (1940 Edn.) in
para 158 'Purpose of Interpretation and Construction' (pp. 244-245) has
observed thus :" The basic principle has been announced time after time
that if the statute is plain, certain and free from ambiguity, a bare
reading suffices and interpretation is unnecessary. "204. At page 344, it
has also been pointed out by he author that alteration, interpolation or
elimination of words are not permissible. In this connection, the author
makes the following observations while dealing with an American case : 211. The observations in clause (c) are rather important because that seems
to us to be the correct approach. Seervai in Constitutional Law of India
(2nd Edn.), Vol. II, pages 1543-44 observes thus : 212. Craies on Statute Law (6th Edn.) while quoting Jervis, C.J., at page
86 observes thus : 221. We shall now deal with the authorities which fall more or less within
the four categories indicated above.Category 'A' 222. The earliest case on the subject is A. K. Gopalan v. State of Madras where Kania, C.J. pointed out that external aid was not permissible unless a statute was
ambiguous and observed thus : 223. Fazl Ali, J. (as he then was) speaking in the same strain made the
following observations : 224. The same view was expressed by Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) in Kanai Lal Sur v. Paramnidhi Sadhukhan where the learned Judge observed as follows :If the
words used are capable of one construction only then it would not be open
to the courts to adopt any other hypothetical construction on the ground
that such hypothetical construction is more consistent with the alleged
object and policy of the Act. The words used in the material provisions of
the statute must be interpreted in their plain grammatical meaning and it
is only when such words are capable of two constructions that the question
of giving effect to the policy or object of the Act can legitimately arise. 225. In M. Pentiah v. Muddala Veeramallappa Sarkar, J. observed thus : 226. In M. V. Joshi v. M. U. Shimpi Subba Rao, J. expressed the opinion of 
the Court thus
: 227. In Hansraj Gordhandas v. H. H. Dave Ramaswami, J. speaking for the court observed
thus : 228. Although these observations were made in respect of a taxing statute,
the principle of interpretation of provisions of a statute or of the
Constitution is the same; the only difference being that in a taxing
statute where two interpretations are possible, benefit of the doubt is
normally given to the taxpayer. 229. In C.I.T. v. G. Hyatt , Hegde,
J. speaking for the Court made the following observations : (SCC p. 468,
para 6)

In our opinion the meaning of Section 17(3)(ii) is plain and unambiguous.
Hence there is no need to call into aid any of the rules of construction as
was sought to be done by the High Court. 230. In Senior Superintendent, R.M.S., Cochin v. K. V. Gopinath, Sorter
, Mitter, J. reiterated this well-settled principle thus : (SCC p.
869, para 3)

As has often been said that if "the precise words used are plain and
unambiguous, we are bound to construe them in their ordinary sense"," and
not to limit plain words in an Act of Parliament by considerations of
policy, if it be policy, as to which minds may differ and as to which
decisions may vary" . 231. In Shri Umed v. Raj Singh 
Bhagwati. J. (one of us) made the following observations : (SCC p. 100,
para 32)

But that does not mean that a construction should be adopted which ignores
the plain natural meaning of the words or disregards the context and the
collocation in which they occur. It is a familiar rule of interpretation
that the words used by the Legislature must be construed according to their
plain natural meaning. 232. In Anandji Haridas & Co. (Pvt.) Ltd. v. Engineering Mazdoor Sangh this Court observed as follows : (SCC p. 865, para 10)

As a general principle of interpretation, where the words of a statute are
plain, precise and unambiguous, the intention of the Legislature is to be
gathered from the language of the statute itself and no external evidence
such as Parliamentary Debates, Reports of the Committees of the Legislature
or even the statement made by the Minister on the introduction of a measure
or by the framers of the Act is admissible to construe those words. 233. In Mangalore Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. C.I.T. ,
this Court observed thus : (SCC pp. 253-54, paras 7-8)

The justification for this submission is stated to be that the word
'transfer', occurs in the collocation of three other words 'sale',
'exchange' and 'relinquishment' which are essentially volitional or
voluntary acts, leading to the conclusion that the word 'transfer' must
take its colour from the three other words in association with which it is
used. 'Transfer', therefore, according to the learned counsel, means a
voluntary transfer and cannot include the compulsory acquisition of
property. We find it impossible to accept this submission. In the first place if it
was intended that voluntary transfers alone should fall within the meaning
of the section, it was unnecessary for the legislature to use the
expression 'transfer', an expression acknowledged in law as having a wide
connotation and amplitude.... Without more, therefore, there is no reason
for limiting the operation of the word 'transfer' to voluntary acts of
transfer so as to exclude compulsory acquisitions of property. 234. This decision seems to us to be apposite to the facts of the present
case, viz., interpretation of the word 'transfer' as the argument of Mr.
Seervai is that the word 'transfer' used in Article 222 must be confined
only to a transfer with the consent of the Judge concerned, thereby
limiting the scope and ambit of Article 222. A similar argument was
advanced in the case supra and rejected and the Court
held that there was no reason to limit the word 'transfer only to a
voluntary transfer so as to include compulsory acquisition of property. On
a parity of reasoning, therefore, we are of the opinion that to read
'consent' into Article 222 would be to limit and whittle down the scope,
ambit and purpose of Article 222. 235. It is not necessary for us to multiply authorities on the subject
covered by category 'A' because the textbooks and the authorities of this
Court as also of some foreign courts referred to above , clearly lay down
that where the language of a statute is plain and unambiguous it is not
permissible to rely on external aids. Category 'B' 236. This category consists of those cases which have laid down that where
the language is vague or ambiguous to what extent external aid can be used
to locate the actual intention of the Legislature. In Powell v. Kempton
Park Racecourse Co. [1899] A.C. 143 : 68 LJ(QB) 392 : 80 LT 538 (HL)) Lord
Halsbury indicated the extent to which external aid could be used by courts
in construing a statutory provision and observed thus : 237. In A. K. Gopalan case, Patanjali Sastri, J. (as he then was) observed as follows : 238. The learned Judge has clearly indicated that the reason why our
Founding Fathers substituted the words 'except according to procedure
established by law' in Article 21 instead of the words "without due process
of law" as used in the American Constitution was because they implemented
the Report of the Drafting Committee which had taken the words 'procedure
established by law' from the Japanese Constitution of 1946. His Lordship
then indicated the nature, extent and the circumstances in which external
aid could be used to construe and constitutional provision. Sastri, J.,
also commented on the extent of the relevancy of a speech made in the
course of a debate on a Bill and in this connection observed thus : 239. Thus, the view of Patanjali Sastri. J. was that a court could locate
the objective and intent of the legislature primarily in the words used by
the Constitution supported by such historical material as may be available. 240. In C.I.T. v. Vadilal Lallubhai , Hegde, J. observed as follows : (SCC p. 23, para 15)

In order to find out the legislative intent, we have to find out what was
the mischief that the Legislature wanted to remedy. The Act was extensively
amended in the year 1939. Section 44-F was not in the draft bill. That
section was recommended by the Select Committee consisting of very eminent
lawyers. It will not be inappropriate to find out the reasons which
persuaded the Select Committee to recommend the inclusion of section 44-F,
if the section is considered as ambiguous. 241. In this case, the Court relied on the recommendation of the Select
Committee in order to find out the reasons for inclusion of a particular
section. 242. In State of Mysore v. R. V. Bidap this Court seems to have made a positive shift
from the view taken in earlier cases of this Court and held that in order
to ascertain the meaning of a statute or its object the Court should not
confine itself within a particular sphere but should take into
consideration whatever is logically relevant or admissible. This is a
decision of a Constitution Bench and shows the modern trend of
interpretation of statutes. Krishna Iyer, J. speaking for the Court tersely
observed as
follows : (SCC p. 341, para 5)

The Rule of Exclusion has been criticised by jurists as artificial. The
trend of academic opinion and the practice in the European system suggest
that interpretation of a statute being an exercise in the ascertainment of
meaning, everything which is logically relevant should be admissible.
Recently, an eminent Indian jurist has reviewed the legal position and
expressed his agreement with Julius Stone and Justice Frankfurter. Of
Course, nobody suggests that such extrinsic materials should be decisive
but they must be admissible. Authorship and interpretation must mutually
illumine and interact. There is authority for the proposition that resort
may be had to these sources with great caution and only when incongruities
and ambiguities are to be resolved. There is a strong case for whittling
down the Rule of Exclusion followed in the British courts and for less
apologetic reference to legislative proceedings and like materials to read
the meaning of the words of a statute. Where it is plain, the language
prevails, but where there is obscurity or lack of harmony with other
provisions and in other special circumstances, it may be legitimate to take
external assistance such as the object of the provisions, the mischief
sought to be remedied, the social context, the words of the authors and
other allied matter. 243. An identical view was taken in a later case of this Court in Fagu Shaw
v. State of West Bengal where
Bhagwati, J. relied on the decision extracted a above and observed thus : 244. It is true that these observations are to be found in the dissenting
judgment of Bhagwati. J. (one of us) but on this issue there was no
dissent. We are inclined to endorse the observations made by Krishna Iyer,
J. and Bhagwati, J. as referred to in the cases mentioned above. 245. In Anandji Haridas & Co. (Pvt.) Ltd. v. Engineering Mazdoor Sangh 
Sarkaria, J. speaking for the Court observed as follows : (SCC p. 865, para 10)

It is only where a statute is not exhaustive or where its language is
ambiguous, uncertain, clouded or susceptible of more than one meaning or
shades of meaning, that external evidence as to the evils, if any, which
the statute was intended to remedy, or of the circumstances which led to
the passing of the statute may be looked into for the purpose of
ascertaining the object which the Legislature had in view in using the
words in question. 246. In Lok Shikshana Trust v. C.I.T. , this Court made the following observations
 : (SCC p. 271, para 32)

But, in the case before us, the real meaning and purpose of the words used
cannot be understood at all satisfactorily without referring to the past
history of legislation on the subject and the speech of the mover of the
amendment who was, undoubtedly, in the best position to explain what defect
in the law the amendment had sought to remove. 247. In State of Tamil Nadu v. Pyare Lal Malhotra Beg, J. (as he then was) observed thus : (SCC p. 838, para 5)

The reason given, in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 1972 Act,
for an elucidation of the "definition" of iron and steel, was that the
"definition" had led to varying interpretations by assessing authorities
and the courts so that a comprehensive list of specified declared iron and
steel goods would remove ambiguity. The Select Committee, which recommended
the amendment, called each specified category "a sub-item" falling under
"iron and steel". 248. In this case, the court relied on the Report of the Select Committee
as also on the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act in order to
elucidate the definition of certain words used in the statute. 249. To the same effect is a later decision of this Court in Jaisingh
Jairam Tyagi v. Mamanchand Ratilal Agarwal , where the Court observed as follows : (SCC p. 165, para 4) Amending Act 22 of 1972 was, therefore, enacted for the express purpose of
saving decree which had already been passed. The Statement of Objects and
Reasons of the Amending Act stated : 250. Same view was taken in a batch of appeals by this Court in M/s. Polestar Electronic (Pvt.) Ltd. v. Additional Commissioner, Sales Tax , where Bhagwati,
J. (one of us) took into consideration the subsequent history of the Act as
also the Statement of Objects and Reasons in order to construe certain
provisions of the statute concerned and observed thus : (SCC p. 661, para 16)The subsequent history of the Act also supports the construction which
we are inclined to place on Section 5(2)(a)(ii) and the Second proviso. Section 5(2)(a)(ii) was amended with effect from May 28, 1972 by Finance
Act, 1972 and the words 'in the Union Territory of Delhi' were added after
the word 'manufacture' so as to provide that manufacture should be inside
the territory.... It is clear from the Statement of Objects and Reasons
that this amendment was not introduced by Parliament ex abundanti cautela,
but in order to restrict the applicability of the exemption clause in Section 5(2)(a)(ii) . The Statement of Objects and Reasons admitted in clear
and explicit terms that :..... 251. In Mangalore Electric Supply Co. Ltd. Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) relied on the legislative history of the
provision of the statute concerned in order to construe the intention of
the legislature and pointed out thus : (SCC p. 255, para 10)

The legislative history of Section 12-B(1) furnishes an important clue to
the question raised by the appellant's counsel. 252. In Dadaji alias Dina v. Sukhdeobabu this Court made the following observations : (SCC p. 628, para 12)

Even though the proceedings of the Joint Committee cannot be relied upon
for the purpose of construing the Order, they may be looked into to
ascertain the circumstances in which the several communities were grouped
under one entry or the other. Category 'C' 253. This category consists of those cases which take the view that words
cannot be omitted from the statute or supplied to it if they are not there.
In other words, in interpretation of statutes, the doctrine of casus
omissus is a fundamental test. In A. K. Gopalan case S. R. Das. J. very poignantly
pointed out thus :The Constitution has by Article 21 required a procedure
and has prescribed certain minimum requirements of procedure in Article 22. To add to them is not to interpret the Constitution but to recast it
according to our intellectual yardstick and our unconscious predilections
as to what an ideal Constitution should be. 254. A similar view was taken by Das, J. in Nalinakhya Bysack v. Shyam
Sunder Haldar where he very pithily observed thus : 255. Thus, this Court has clearly held that in construing a statutory or a
constitutional provision, the Court should not presume that the legislature
has either committed a mistake or has omitted something which was very
necessary. Das, J. very rightly remarked that it was not for the court but
for others to remedy the defect, if any, found in a statutory provision. If
we accept the argument of Mr. Seervai and read the word 'consent' in Article 222 by supplying the omission, we will be violating the cardinal
principle of interpretation as adumbrated by Das, J. in the case supra . 256. In Sri Ram Ram Narain Medhi v. State of Bombay the law on the subject was very
succinctly and clearly laid down by this Court and N. H. Bhagwati, J.
observed thus : 257. We find ourselves in complete agreement with these observations which
aptly apply to the present case so far as Article 222 is concerned and are
sufficient to demolish the argument of Mr. Seervai that the word 'consent'
should be added to or read into Article 222 even if it is not there. 258. In C.I.T. v. National Taj Traders , Tulzapurkar, J. speaking for the court highlighted the importance of
the doctrine of casus omissus in a very poignant exposition of the law on
the subject and opined thus : (SCC p. 376, para 10)

In other words, under the first principle a casus omissus cannot be
supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason
for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same
time a casus omissus should not be readily referred and for that purpose
all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every
clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and
other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular
provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute. 259. Thus, Tulzapurkar, J. laid down three conditions under which omissions
could be supplied to a statute - (1) that there was a clear necessity for the same,

(2) that the reason for supplying the omission was to be found in the
provisions of the statute itself expressed or by necessary intendment, and

(3) that the omission was to be supplied only to make the provision
consistent with the object of the statute. 260. It is manifest that none of these conditions apply to Article 222 and
therefore to supply the omission by reading the word 'consent' would really
be going against the principles laid down by this Court in the aforesaid
case. 261. In Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab Chandrachud, C.J. while dealing with
this particular aspect of canon of construction of a statute, vary pithily
observed thus : (SCC p. 577, para 12)

By any known canon of construction, words of width and amplitude ought not
generally to be cut down so as to read into the language of the statute
restraints and conditions which the legislature itself did not think it
proper or necessary to impose. 262. It follows from the observations made by this Court that if the word
'consent' is read into Article 222 then it will amount to imposing
unnecessary restraints and conditions in the article which are not there at
all and which cannot be done under the well-known rules of interpretation
of statutes. Category 'D' 263. In this category we shall include those cases which hold that a speech
made by a Minister or by a Member of Parliament is neither admissible nor
permissible to construe a statutory or a constitutional provision. It may,
however, be noted that a speech made in a debate is different from the
Report of a Select Committee or views expressed in close proximity to the
making of a statute or introduction or insertion of a statutory provision
where the statement would undoubtedly be relevant because it forms part of
the formative process of the statutory provision itself. We have
highlighted this particular aspect of the matter because in the instant
case, we shall show that there are statements made by some of the Founding
Fathers when the Constitution was being framed and the reasons given by the
speakers formed the basis and foundation of the constitutional provisions
inserted in the Constitution. 264. In A. K. Gopalan case (A. K. Gopalan v. State of Madras, Patanjali Sastri, J. while
dwelling on the admissibility of the speech made by a Minister on the floor
of the House observed thus : 265. Similar view was taken in U.S. v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association
166 US 290 1897) where the following observations were made : observed as follows : reaching consequences of our decision and the large magnitude of the
arguments that have been addressed to us, that the dominant object of Article 222 is not very clear or unambiguous, we may discuss the
legislative history of introduction of Article 222 in the Constitution as
also the parliamentary debates or Reports of the Drafting or Select
Committees as a direct result of which the said Article came into
existence. 278. So far as the legislative history of the provisions prior to the
Constitution regarding the functioning and the constitution of High Court
is concerned, we might start from the Government of India Act, 1915 (hereinafter referred to as the '1915 Act') because the prior Acts are
neither helpful nor germane for construing the questions at issue in these
petitions. Sections 101 to 114 of the 1915 Act are the provisions which
relate to the High Courts. It may be noted that in this Act, there was no
provision at all for transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another. Section 101 provided that each High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice
and as many other Judges as His Majesty may think fit to appoint. This is
the precursor of Article 217 of our Constitution. It may be noticed that in
the 1915 Act while the appointment of Judges vested in His Majesty the King
but the power of appointment of Additional Judges was vested in the
Governor-General-in-Council although the Additional Judges so appointed had
the same powers as the Judges appointed by His Majesty. This complexion has
been completely changed so far as the provisions of our Constitution are
concerned. Further, under Section 102 a Judge of a High Court was to hold
office during His Majesty's pleasure unless he resigned on his own. This
provision has not been incorporated in our Constitution which has provided
complete security of tenure to a Judge of a High Court who is to continue
until he reaches the age of superannuation which is 62 years in the case of
a High Court Judge and 65 years in the case of a Supreme Court Judge. The
only manner in which a Judge can be removed before his term is by
impeachment as provided under Article 124(4) read with the provisions of
the Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 . The other provisions are not relevant for
the purpose of deciding this issue. Section 113 conferred powers on His
Majesty to establish an Additional High Court in any territory in British
India. 279. Thus, the only common feature which has been retained in our
Constitution is regarding the appointment of Additional Judges of any High
Court for a period not exceeding two years and while this provision was
introduced by the 7th Amendment of the Constitution, it was slightly
different from the one contained in proviso (i) to sub-section (2) of Section 101 of the 1915 Act which may be extracted thus : 280. The next statute which merits consideration is the Government of India
Act, 1935 (hereinafter referred to as the '1935 Act') which is merely a
precursor of our Constitution as most of its provisions are based on the
pattern and structure of this Act. The relevant sections dealing with High
Courts are Sections 219 to 231 and 253 to 256 . Section 220 makes two marked
improvements on the previous provisions of the 1915 Act - (1) that every
Judge appointed by His Majesty held office until he attained the age of 60
years and not at the pleasure of His Majesty as provided by Section 102 of
the 1915 Act, and (2) Section 220(2)(b) expressly states that a Judge can
be removed on the ground of misbehaviour or infirmity of body or mind if
the Judicial Committee of the privy Council, on a preference made to it by
His Majesty, reported that the Judge ought on any such ground be removed.
This provision has been retained by our Constitution but the procedure of
removal has been substituted by the procedure of impeachment as contained
in Article 124(4) read with Article 218. 281. Although there is no specific provision for transfer of a High Court
Judge from one High Court to another, an implied power seems to have been
conferred in Section 220(2)(c) of the 1935 Act, which may be extracted thus
: "The office of a judge shall be vacated by his being appointed by His
Majesty to be a Judge of the Federal Court or of another High Court." 282. It may be pertinent to note that Section 220(2)(c) provides that a
Judge shall vacate his office either on his being appointed as a Judge of
the Federal Court or of another High Court. This provision does not contain
any element or concept of transfer of a Judge from one High Court to
another. What it contemplated is that if a Judge of a High Court was to be
transferred he would have to be appointed to that High Court. Our
Constitution, however, makes a clear distinction so far as this aspect of
the matter is concerned inasmuch as Article 222 expressly uses the word
'transfer' rather than the word 'appointment' when a Judge is transferred
from one High Court to another. 283. So far as our Constitution is concerned while Article 222 confers on
the President the power of transferring one Judge of a High Court to
another in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, Article 217(1) proviso (c) provides that the office shall be vacated on his being
appointed as Judge of the Supreme Court or if he is transferred to any
other High Court. It may thus be noticed that Article 217(1) proviso (c) is
placed in Chapter V which deals with High Courts and may be extracted thus
: 284. While in the case of a Judge who goes to the Supreme Court, the word
'appointed' is used to indicate that this is a fresh appointment in a
higher court, or rather the highest court in the country, whereas when a
Judge is transferred from one High Court to another, the word 'transfer' in
contradistinction to the word 'appointed' as mentioned in Section 220(2)(c) of the 1935 Act, has been deliberately used which clearly shows that the
two modes of vacation of office by a sitting Judge are quite different. We
have mentioned this fact because Mr. Seervai has argued before us that the
transfer of a Judge form one High Court to another results in vacation of
his office and therefore must be construed to be a fresh appointment
implying thereby that he could be transferred only if he gives his consent
as when he is first appointed to the High Court. The fact that he gives his
consent has to be implied, for he cannot be appointed as a High Court Judge
against his consent. 285. We have mentioned these circumstances in order to highlight the second
argument of Mr. Seervai regarding interpretation of Article 217(1) proviso (c) on the basis of which he contended that this would show that the
transfer of a Judge under Article 222 amounted to a first or a fresh
appointment in the transferee court, as the moment a Judge is transferred
to another High Court, he vacates his office in the original High Court and
assumes the charge of a new office only after taking the oath. It was
suggested by Mr. Seervai that under proviso (c) to Article 217(1) just as a
Judge vacates his office on being appointed as a Judge of the Supreme
Court, identical consequences follow when he is transferred to any other
High Court. 286. The Attorney-General has rightly pointed out that the proviso itself
makes a difference between vacating the office by a Judge who is appointed
to the Supreme Court and a Judge who is transferred. A Judge who is
transferred merely vacates the office in a limited sense, namely, that he
cannot act as a High Court Judge in the High Court where he was appointed
but the fact remains that until he takes oath in the transferee High Court,
he continues to be a Judge of the original High Court. For these reasons,
this argument does not appeal to us. 287. Finally, there is one more circumstance which clearly shows that a
transfer cannot be treated as a first or fresh appointment. It would be
seen that the heading of each Article which deals with the appointment of
Judges clearly mentions this fact. Take for instance, Article 217 - the
heading is appointment and conditions of a Judge of a High Court. Article
223 relates to appointment of acting Chief Justice and article 224 deals
with appointment of Additional and acting Judges. It may be pertinent to
note here that Article 223 comes immediately after Article 222 where the
heading is transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another. The
Constitution has thus itself brought out a clear distinction between
transfer and appointment. Similarly, Article 224-A deals with appointment
of retired Judges at sittings of High Courts. There are number of other
instances where the word 'appointment' is used in contradistinction to
transfer in respect of authorities other than High Court Judges. This is,
therefore, also an important circumstance to negative the argument of Mr.
Seervai that a transfer amounts to a fresh or a first appointment in the
transferee High Court and, therefore, consent becomes a necessary
concomitant of such a transfer. 288. It may also be pointed out that whenever a legislature or constituent
assembly uses a particular phrase in contradistinction to another phrase it
is not possible to read the two phrases so as the indicate the same
purpose. In the instant case, the Constitution has used the word
'appointed' in the case of a Judge of the Supreme Court and 'transfer' in
the case of a Judge of a High Court. A perusal of the language of Article
217(1) proviso (c) leads to the irresistible conclusion and logical
inference that the Founding Fathers have made a clear distinction between
transfer and appointment. It is true that in both cases the office held by
a Judge is vacated in a fictional sense because there is a complete change
in the life of the Judge but that does not mean that the incidents of both
these appointments are the same. A Judge of the High Court when appointed
as a Judge of the Supreme Court cannot be equated in any respect with a
Judge of the high Court who is transferred to another High Court and
continues to possess the same status, position and emoluments which is
essentially different from a Judge of the Supreme Court. Mr. Seervai,
however, submitted that both Article 124 which relate to the appointment of
a Supreme Court Judge and Article 217 which provide for the appointment of
a High Court Judge do not mention anything about obtaining the consent of a
Judge which has to be implied in both the cases. On a parity of reasoning
it was submitted that where a Judge is appointed in a High Court or
transferred to another Court, every time it is a new appointment as a
result of which the Judge of the High Court on being transferred to another
court has to take a fresh oath because he ceases to be a Judge in the court
of its origin. It is true that on being transferred to another High Court a
Judge ceases to be a Judge but then he ceases to be a Judge of the
transferor court only and does not cease to be a Judge for all times to
come so as to make his transfer in the transferee court a fresh
appointment. This is clear from paragraph 11(b)(iii) to the Second Schedule
to the Constitution which runs thus : "Joining time on transfer from a High
Court to the Supreme Court or from one High Court to another." 289. It is true that in this schedule joining time is mentioned on transfer
from a High Court to Supreme Court or from one High Court to another and
the word 'appointment' has not been used as such. That however makes no
difference because this schedule only refers to a small matter of joining
time which both the Judges, viz., a Judge appointed to the Supreme Court
and the Judge transferred, are entitled to avail. Nothing, therefore, turns
upon the language of paragraph 11(b)(iii) of the Second Schedule. 290. Lastly, it was contended that the fact that a Judge who is transferred
from the original High Court to another High Court has to take oath
suggests that his transfer amounts to an appointment and that is why the
taking of a fresh oath become necessary. We are, however, unable to agree
with this contention. It is obvious that when a Judge was appointed in the
original High Court he had taken the oath of his office which bound him to
act as a Judge of that particular High Court. Since by virtue of the
transfer, the court is changed, a fresh oath becomes necessary as a
clerical formality to indicate that although his appointment as a Judge of
a High Court does not cease to exist he discharges his duties as a Judge in
another court in respect of which he had not taken the oath of office. In
these circumstances, it cannot be said that merely because a transferee
Judge has to take a fresh oath the transfer becomes a new or a fresh
appointment. Moreover, it is doubtful if the taking of a fresh oath is
necessary at all because the warrant signed by the President appointing a
person as a Judge of a High Court holds good in the transferee court and
the place is indicated by the notification issued under the authority of
the President which really means that after the notification the warrant
would have to be read to indicate that the Judge was transferred to the
transferee court where he is to act as a Judge. At any rate, we do not
consider it necessary to go into this question in this particular case. 291. The last plank of the argument of Mr. Seervai was that no stress can
be laid on the distinction between 'appointment' and 'transfer' because
these are synonymous and interchangeable terms and in this connection he
relied on a decision of this Court in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of
Kerala (1973 Supp SCR 1 : AIR 1973 1461 ) where
Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) observed as follows : (SCC p. 969, para
2017)

These are not words occurring in a school textbook so that one can find
their meaning with a dictionary on one's right and a book of grammar on
one's left. These are words occurring in a Constitution and one must look
at them not in a school-masterly fashion, not with the cold eye of a
lexicographer, but with the realization that they occur in "a single
complex instrument, in which one part may throw light on another", so that
"the construction must hold a balance between all its parts"..... "A word
is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged; it is the skin of living
thought and may vary greatly in colour and content according to
circumstances and the time in which it is used." (Per Holmes, J. in Towne
v. Eisner, 62 L Ed 372, 376) 292. This Court merely held that in certain circumstances different words
may not necessarily produce a change in the meaning and those observations
have to be read with reference to the context. In the instant case,
however, the plain and unambiguous language of Article 217(1) proviso (c)
and Article 222 cannot be stretched to indicate that 'appointment' and
'transfer' are synonymous terms when the constitutional provisions make it
very clear that the power of transfer and the power of appointment are two
different kinds of powers to be exercised in different ways. We, therefore,
reject this part of the argument of Mr. Seervai as being without substance. 293. Having dealt with the legislative history and the setting, Article 222 which, as pointed out by us earlier, took its birth for the first time in
our country in the form of Section 220(2)(c) of the 1935 Act and was later
inserted in the Constitution after a full parliamentary debate. As we have
already held that detailed speeches made on the floor of the House or the
statement of Ministers are not admissible, we would confine ourselves only
to those debates or statements which have been made by the sponsors or the
architects of the Constitution itself and which immediately resulted in the
introduction of Article 222 in our Constitution. 294. On September 16, 1949 one of the architects of our Constitution, Dr.
Ambedkar while proposing the insertion of Article 128 (which became the
present Article 222 ) highlighted the various aspects of the philosophy and
the doctrine of transfer of Judges and speaking with persuasion and
poignancy observed thus : (Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. II 1949, p. 580)

The only question that we are called upon to consider is when a person is
appointed as a judge of a High Court of a particular State, should it be
permissible for the Government to transfer him from that Court to a High
Court in any other State. If so, should this transfer be accompanied by
same kind of pecuniary allowance which would compensate him for the
monetary loss that he might have to sustain by reason of the transfer ? The
Drafting Committee felt that since all the High Courts so far as the
appointment of judges is concerned form now a central subject, it was
desirable to treat all the judges of the High Courts throughout India as
forming one single cadre like the I.C.S. and that they should be liable to
be transferred from one High Court another. If such power was not reserved
to the Centre the administration of justice might become a very difficult
matter. It might be necessary that one judge may be transferred from one
High Court to another in order to strengthen the High Court elsewhere by
importing better talent which may not be locally available. Secondly, it
might be desirable to import a new Chief Justice to a High Court because it
might be desirable to have a man who is unaffected by local politics and
local jealousies. We thought therefore that the power to transfer should be
placed in the hands of the Central Government.We also took into account the
fact that this power of transfer of judges from one High Court to another
may be abused. A Provincial Government might like to transfer a particular
judge from its High Court because that judge had become very inconvenient
to the Provincial Government by the particular attitude that he had taken
with regard to certain judicial matters, or that he had made a nuisance of
himself by giving decisions which the Provincial Government did not like.
We have taken care that in effecting these transfers no such considerations
ought to prevail. Transfers ought to take place only on the ground of
convenience of the general administration. Consequently, we have introduced
a provision that such transfer shall take place in consultation with the
Chief Justice of India who can be trusted to advise the Government in a
manner which is not affected by local or personal prejudices. 295. Thus, the speech coming as it did immediately before Article 222 was
inserted completely demolishes the argument of Mr. Seervai because the
apprehensions and fears expressed by him are found in the statement of Dr.
Ambedkar and he had made it a point to emphasise that the power of transfer
should serve three purposes : 296. These observations, therefore, furnish a complete answer to the two
arguments of Mr. Seervai that 'consent' should be read into Article 222 or
that the transfer amounted to a fresh appointment. 297. It may be mentioned that even in the Revised Draft, Article 222 ran
thus : (B. Shiva Rao : THE FRAMING OF INDIA'S CONSTITUTION, Vol. IV, p. 826) 222. Transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another. - (1) The
President may transfer a Judge from one High Court any other High Court
within the territory of India. (2) When a Judge is so transferred, he shall, during the period he serves
as a Judge of the other Court, be entitled to receive in addition to his
salary such compensatory allowance as may be determined by Parliament by
law and until so determined, such compensatory allowance as the President
may by order fix. 298. It would be noticed that in this draft Article there was no mention of
consultation of CJI by the President but this seems to have been later
introduced as a result of the speech of Dr. Ambedkar as indicated above.
Furthermore, it would appear from the Note appended by Mr. Santhanam in his
book Constitution of India as to how and under what circumstances the
present Article 222 came to be incorporated in the Constitution, where at
page 169 the author says thus : 299. This note clearly shows that even at the time when Article 222 was
taking its birth there was some talk of making the transfer with the
consent of the Judge concerned but this idea was given up when it was
pointed out that in the national interest it may be necessary to send a
competent Judge to another High Court and this policy may be stalled by the
Judge by withholding his consent. In other words, the idea of 'consent'
having been conceived, discussed and rejected clearly shows that the
Founding Fathers deliberately omitted the word 'consent' from Article 222 and that knocks the bottom out of the argument of Mr. Seervai that if the
Founding Fathers rejected the concept of 'consent', the court should still
read it into the Article which is patently against all canons of
interpretation of statutes. 300. It was suggested that the note of Mr. Santhanam cannot be treated to
be the last word in the matter. We are unable to agree with this
contention. Santhanam is not merely the author of the Constitution but he
was also a Member of the Drafting Committee and the Note fully shows that
the speech made by Dr. Ambedkar regarding Article 222 (which in its draft
form was Article 128 ) was incorporated according to the guide-lines
indicated by Dr. Ambedkar. The Note, therefore, finds ample support from
what Dr. Ambedkar had said. No material has been placed before us to show
that the Note of Mr. Santhanam was wrong either on point of fact or on a
point of law. In our opinion, therefore, read with the speech of Dr.
Ambedkar, the Note of Mr. Santhanam in regard to Article 222 clinches the
issue and no further argument on this question can be entertained. 301. Finally, there is yet another aspect to which we may advert in order
to understand the spirit, philosophy and pattern of our Constitution. Shiva
Rao in The Framing of India's Constitution (Vol. IV) refers to various
speeches made after the adoption of the Constitution. To begin with, Dr.
Ambedkar while explaining the various sources of the Constitution reminded
the Members that before finally drafting the Constitution, the Members of
the Drafting Committee had before them almost all the important
Constitutions of the big countries of the world. The American Constitution
was considered, the Australian Constitution was also taken into account and
comparisons were made with American, Canadian, South African and Australian
Constitutions. Dr. Ambedkar further pointed out a distinctive feature in
our Constitution which he highlighted thus : (Ibid., p. 936)In making
comparisons on the basis of time consumed, two things must be remembered.
One is that the Constitutions of America, Canada, South Africa and
Australia are much smaller than ours. Our Constitution as I said contains
395 articles while the American has just seven articles, the first four of
which are divided into sections which total up to 21, the Canadian has 147,
the Australian 128 and the South African, 153 sections. The second thing to
be remembered is that the makers of the Constitutions of America, Canada,
Australia and South Africa did not have to face the problem of amendments.
They were passed as moved. On the other hand, this Constituent Assembly had
to deal with as many as 2,473 amendments. Having regard to these facts the
charge of dilatoriness seems to me quite unfounded and this Assembly may
well congratulate itself for having accomplished so formidable a task in so
short a time. 302. Similarly, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, who was President of the Drafting
Committee, observed thus : (Ibid., pp. 951-952)

We considered whether we should adopt the American model or the British
model where we have a hereditary king who is the fountain of all honour and
power, but who does not actually enjoy any power. All the power rests in
the Legislature to which the Ministers are responsible. We have had to
reconcile the position of an elected President with an elected Legislature
and, in doing so, we have adopted more or less the position of the British
monarch for the President...... Then we come to the Ministers. They are of course responsible to the
Legislature and tender advice to the President who is bound to act
according to that advice. Although there are no specific provisions, so far
as I know, in the Constitution itself making it binding on the President to
accept the advice of his Ministers, it is hoped that the convention under
which in England the King acts always on the advice of his Ministers will
be established in this country also and the President, not so much on
account of the written word in the Constitution, but as the result of this
very healthy convention, will become a constitutional President in all
matters. 303. Dr. Prasad expressed a wish that by working the Constitution, the
people of the country will evolve a convention by which the advice of the
Council of Ministers would be binding on the President and his historical
words have proved to be true and have now taken a constitutional shape
because by virtue of the Constitution 42nd Amendment, the advice of the
Council of Ministers has been made binding on the President and he has to
act on such advice. Thus, a convention which was ingrained in the
Constitution has now taken a constitutional shape. 304. Lastly, Dr. Rajendra Prasad expressed his view that the Constitution
undoubtedly made clear provisions for an independent judiciary and observed
thus : (B. Shiva Rao : THE FRAMING OF INDIA'S CONSTITUTION Vol. IV, p.954)

We have provided in the Constitution for a judiciary which will be
independent. It is difficult to suggest anything more to make the Supreme
Court and the High Courts independent of the influence of the executive.
There is an attempt made in the Constitution to make even the lower
judiciary independent of any outside or extraneous influence. One of our
articles makes it easy for the State Governments to introduce separation of
executive from judicial functions and placing the magistracy which deals
with criminal cases on similar footing as civil courts. I can only express
the hope that this long overdue reform will soon be introduced in the
States. 305. We have mentioned these facts at this stage for two reasons. In the
first place, we wanted to illustrate and emphasise the actual philosophy of
the Constitution so that the various articles may be read in the light of
the views and the desire expressed by the Founding Fathers. Secondly, the
fact that our Constitution is based not on the American but on the British
pattern is established from the observations extracted above and the
internal evidence furnished by the various provisions of the Constitution
itself. It is true that we have borrowed some provisions from the American
Constitution and others from the Japanese Constitution but by and large our
Constitution is fashioned on the British pattern. Therefore, while
considering the doctrine of privilege or the doctrine of candour it would
be safer to rely on English cases rather than the American doctrine.
However, this aspect of the matter will be dealt with at the appropriate
stage. 306. It was next contended both by Mr. Seervai and Dr. Singhvi that non-
consensual transfers of High Court Judges are punitive in nature and amount
to punishment. Detailed contentions in this regard have already been
narrated by us when we dealt with their contentions on this point. One of
the cardinal points made out by the learned counsel for the petitioners
against non-consensual transfers was that if a transfer is made without the
consent of the judge it will arm the Central Government with a strong
weapon to punish a High Court Judge, who either does not share the ideology
of the Government or is not prepared to oblige it, by compelling him to toe
the line of the Government at the risk of being transferred. Reliance was
placed in support of this argument on a large number of transfers that were
made during the emergency resulting in writ petitions filed in the Gujarat
High Court in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth ,
where this very point was argued on behalf of one of the Judges who had moved the
petition before the Gujarat High Court. It was also pointed out that in the
Supreme Court both Bhagwati and Untwalia, JJ. dissented from the majority
view and particularly Untwalia, J. mentioned the fact that the large number
of transfers had created a panic. It is true that there were quite a few
transfers during the emergency which were not in consonance with the spirit
of Article 222 and that is why the Government had conceded this fact and
took steps to revoke the transfers by retransferring almost all the Judges
to the High Courts from where they had been transferred. Even so, the
Government insisted that the point of law involved should be decided by
this Court as a result of which the majority judgment held that Article 222 does not contemplate that a transfer should be made only with the consent
of the Judge concerned. Taking the argument at its face value, we cannot
jump immediately to the conclusion that in all cases non-consensual
transfers would amount to a punishment so as to arm the Government with a
weapon to punish a Judge for not toeing the line of the Government. It is a
well-known saying that one sparrow does not make a summer. It seems that it
is neither logical nor congruent to draw an irresistible inference merely
from the massive transfers made during the emergency inspired by particular
motive to the conclusion that the power of the President enshrined in Article 222 would be exercised for collateral reasons always in future
also; more particularly so when this Court in the majority judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , had laid down the guide-
lines for transferring a judge from one court to another and also laid very
great stress on the process of effective consultation, the possibility of
abuse of power is completely ruled out. This Court in that case had laid
down sufficient safeguards against a wrong or colourable exercise of power
by the President under Article 222. Therefore, there is no reason to
presume that any order which is passed by the President under Article 222 henceforward is bound to be mala fide or colourable and even if it is in a
particular case or cases, it is doubtless subject to judicial review. 307. It was then contended that a transfer of a judge from one High Court
to another entails evil consequences inasmuch as it uproots the judge from
his hearth and home and transplants him in a new and alien place where he
has to start his life or career anew and face several personal difficulties
and inconveniences. Once it is conceded that the power of transfer under Article 222 is to be exercised in public interest, then any inconvenience
that is felt by the judge would have to yield to the larger interest of the
community so as to make the said article workable. Although Article 222 is
an extraordinary power, whenever a person accepts judgeship of a High Court
he is fully aware that during his career as a judge the power under Article
222 could be exercised by the President without his consent and if knowing
this he accepts the position of a High Court Judge, he cannot be heard to
say that he ought not to be transferred because he would suffer lot of
inconvenience. 308. It is true that the transfer of a High Court Judge is an extraordinary
phenomenon and is resorted to very sparingly. Though not the usual incident
of the career of a High Court Judge as in the case of other services,
particularly the subordinate judiciary the provision for transfer is
undoubtedly there and has to be worked out in suitable cases. We shall deal
with this aspect of the matter in greater detail when we come to the limb
of the argument regarding the policy of general transfers. 309. Furthermore, the very concept of transfer under Article 222 being a
punishment is highly derogatory to the High constitutional position that a
High Court Judge holds. Such a constitutional appointment, which makes a
Judge a constitutional functionary and not a government servant, more so
when he obtains certain special privileges having regard to the high
position he holds, is against the very concept of penalty or punishment. It
is manifest that when a person is punished for an offence or a mistake or
an error, then he is to undergo some penal process. In the case of a Judge
who is transferred, no such penal consequences are at tall visited because
on the plain term of Article 222 the Judge has to get special facilities
before being transferred to the transferee High Court. Clause (2) of Article 222 clearly provides that a transferred Judge is also to receive in
addition to his salary such compensatory allowance as may be determined by
Parliament by law and until so determined such compensatory allowance as
the President may fix. Thus, the granting of compensatory allowance to a
judge in lieu of transfer completely destroys the concept that the transfer
involves a stigma or a punishment. You do not have to award a person
additional facilities if you punish him and if you do, then the act cannot
amount to a punishment. Apart from the allowances, the High Court Judges
(Conditions of Service) Act and the Rules made therein clearly provide that
a judge who is transferred from one High Court to another can always avail
of the special leave concession rules by visiting his home State, along
with his family, at Government cost once a year. The Judges Rules, as
amended, further enjoin that the Judge must be supplied with a free
furnished house which under the Amendment Act of 1981 is not even to be
treated as a perquisite under the Income Tax Act . It is true that some of
these facilities are available to a Judge in his original High Court also
but the totality of the facilities taken into consideration undoubtedly
seek to make him as comfortable as possible in the transferee court also. 310. In the speeches and statements of the Members of the Drafting
Committee particularly those of Dr. Ambedkar Article 222 (which was Article
128 in Draft Constitution ) was introduced not by way of punishing a judge
but to import better talents in other High Courts and enable the judge to
work in a free and fair atmosphere where he can work without any local
influence. Indeed, if our Founding Fathers were alive today and were to be
told to their utter dismay that transfer amounts to a punishment, they
would have got the greatest shock of their life. 311. Far from being a punishment the transfer of a judge does not involve
any stain or stigma nor even the slightest reflection on his legal
functioning or his judicial character or integrity. The transfer of a judge
contemplated by Article 222 is in the nature of a response to a call of
duty in the larger national interest of the country in order to maintain
and ensure absolute purity of judicial administration. On being transferred
the Judge would find himself free to work in an independent atmosphere
untrammelled by any provincial or parochial consideration, undaunted by any
external or internal influences or local pulls or pressures and
uninfluenced by the considerations of class, caste or creed. He would also
generate much greater confidence in the people to whom he imparts justice
which is bound to enhance his judicial prestige and as a logical result
would subserve the concept of independence of judiciary. For a true and
conscientious judge there can be no higher honour than to create a feeling
that justice is not actually done but also appears to have been done, the
latter being more important and fundamental quality of judicial approach.
The apprehension that a judge on being transferred to another State is
likely to face a hostile Bar is merely an anathema and an illusion which
has neither a factual nor a legal existence. If the Judge's behaviour
towards the Bar is polite and courteous and he gives a little accommodation
to the Bar he is bound to win laurels of the Bar. In fact, the Bar always
welcomes an outside judge who is likely to build up a new judicial
structure and establish a flawless and unblemished reputation. This is not
merely a pious wish or an ideal dream but a stark and speaking reality
which is evident from the performance and reputation of Judges who had been
transferred outside their States and had proved to be not only successful
but memorable judges.Judges transferred as CJs/Judges outside their State : 312. Apart from these there were other transfers, a list of which was
submitted by the counsel for the respondents. 313. These Judges have left an indelible imprint in the judiciary of the
State where on transfer or appointment they worked. We might also mention
that the Solicitor-General in his statement at the Bar drew our attention
to the excellent manner in which our colleague Justice A. D. Koshal shaped
himself when he was transferred to Madras during the emergency. The
Solicitor-General said that he had left behind an unparalleled reputation
of being a very sharp and independent Judge. These circumstances,
therefore, fully justify transfer of judges from one High Court to another. 314. The Attorney-General with his usual ingenuity submitted a very
plausible argument in order to show that transfer of a judge from one High
Court to another under certain circumstances even though inconvenient
cannot by any process of reasoning amount to a reflection or stigma. It was
submitted by the Attorney-General that there may be two contingencies where
a Judge may or may not give his consent. One type of Judges may consent to
the transfer against the background of public interest and the Judge
responds to the sensitive call of duty ignoring his private losses and
inconveniences and gives his consent to the said transfer. There may be
other type of Judges who care more for their personal conveniences or
losses and refuse to give their consent. The hardship involved in both the
cases is the same. The only question to consider is as to whether or not Article 222 operates to the disadvantage of a more conscientious judge or
of a judge who is not willing to meet the demands of public interest or, if
we may say so, national interest, for either public or national interest
may some time make it not only desirable but imperative that a Judge should
be transferred. 315. Furthermore, the Attorney-General pointed out that there may be
several factors which may affect the administration of justice or the
confidence of the community which may involve the judge himself on a purely
environmental basis. For instance, the atmosphere may be vitiated by his
close relations or friends even without the knowledge of the judge who may
remain innocent and become an unfortunate victim of environments. In such
cases, his continued presence in the High Court is bound to vitiate the
very atmosphere in which justice is to be dispensed with so that a
conscientious judge would himself opt for a transfer outside his State. We
have to take into account the advice given by the CJI in one of the
Seminars that where close relations of a judge or the Chief Justice
practise in the same court and are likely to gain undue advantage, the
concerned judge should himself, in obedience to the keen sense of justice
which every judge possesses, opt to be transferred to some other High
Court. This is undoubtedly a very valuable advice which seems to have been
given by our CJI to the judges in the country. 316. Mr. Seervai in his anxiety to drive home his opposition to non-
consensual transfers submitted that if the father-judges or the uncle-
judges are transferred from one High Court to another and the relations who
exploited him also follow suit and start practice in the transferee court,
could such a transfer be a sufficient cure for this malady ? The answer to
this argument is very short and simple. Where a judge is transferred
because the environment or the atmosphere is not congenial or conducive to
administration of impartial justice, he does so as a conscientious judge
responding to a call of duty but where his sons or relations follow him in
the transferee court then it becomes the most cogent and reliable evidence
to show that the judge openly allows himself to be exploited by his sons or
relations and this per se would be conclusive proof of misbehaviour for
which he can be impeached under Article 124(4) read with Article 218. If
these facts are proved, then he will have to be removed, for no court can
ever accept a plea of the judge that even after he was transferred to some
other court his close relations followed him there without his knowledge. 317. Another difficulty which was pointed out before us was regarding the
language problem. This, however, appears to be of a very minor significance
as compared to various plus points indicated above. After all, the British
Judges could administer justice for two centuries in our country without
knowing our language. Furthermore, at the High Court level there are ample
facilities for translating the record into the language with which the
judge is conversant, and if necessary these facilities could be increased.
The Law Commission suggested that even if transfers are made from one High
Court to another they could be made on zonal basis which will eliminate the
language difficulty to a great extent. 318. For these reasons, therefore, we are unable to accept the argument of
the counsel for the petitioners that non-consensual transfer amounts to
punishment or a reflection on the integrity of the judge concerned or can
in any way be described as penal. 319. The next pillar of the argument of Mr. Seervai regarding non-
consensual transfer was that such a transfer would seriously affect and
impair the independence of judiciary. Dr. Singhvi who followed him not only
adopted this argument but elaborated it by giving illustrations from
various constitutional provisions which we shall deal with presently. 320. Dr. Singhvi submitted that non-consensual transfer was against the
very spirit of the doctrine of separation of powers contained in our
Constitution. We have already shown from the concluding speeches of the
Members of the Drafting Committee that our Constitution is based mainly on
the British pattern although some provisions of the American Constitution
have been borrowed. Secondly, a detailed survey of the various provisions
of the Constitution dealing with judiciary would clearly reveal that our
Constitution does not envisage a complete separation of powers between the
judiciary and the executive as such. What our Constitution has done is to
effect no separation of powers a such but separation of judicial and
executive functions. In achieving this object, our Constitution has
particularly relied on the American Constitution while rejecting the
British pattern of conventions. For instance, the judiciary is absolutely
independent and supreme in the decision-making process, that is to say, in
deciding cases between man and man and State and man without being
influenced by any governmental or official consideration. In England, in
spite of the independence of judiciary even the highest judiciary does not
have the power to strike down a law made by the Parliament. In
contradistinction to this, our Constitution confers absolute powers on the
High Courts and the Supreme Court to strike down not only legislations
brought about by the legislature but also Acts passed by the Parliament and
the peak of the judicial power reached when in Kesavananda Bharati case
this Court held that the amending power enshrined in Article 368 of the
Constitution could not be amended so as to affect the basic structure of
the Constitution. We might mention that it has, however, not been doubted
by counsel for any of the parties that independence of judiciary is
doubtless a basic structure of the Constitution but the said concept of
independence has to be confined within the four corners of the Constitution
and cannot go beyond the Constitution. While this absolute judicial power
has been conceded by the Constitution to the judiciary, a certain amount of
executive control has already been vested in the higher judiciary in
respect of the subordinate judiciary. At the same time, the power of
appointment of High Court Judges including the CJ of Supreme Court Judges,
including the CJI, vets entirely in the executive i.e., the President of
India, who acts on the advice of Council of Ministers. Here again, this
executive power is not absolute and has to be exercised in consultation
with the CJI in the case of appointment of Supreme Court Judges, as also in
consultation with the CJI and the Governor of the States concerned in case
of the appointment of Chief Justice of the High Courts - in the case of
appointment of High Court Judges, the Chief Justice of the concerned High
Court is also to be consulted. This Court has in several cases, which need
not be repeated here, clearly held that consultation contemplated by the
Constitution must be full and effective and by convention the view of the
concerned CJ and CJI should always prevail unless there are exceptional
circumstances which may impel the President to disagree with the advice
given by these constitutional authorities. 321. Thus, in fine, the doctrine of separation of power, so far as our
Constitution is concerned, reveals an artistic blending and an adroit
admixture of judicial and executive functions. The Constitution has taken
the best of both the British and the American Constitution. In order to
illustrate our point and to show that the separation sought to be achieved
by our Constitution is not absolutely or completely separate, let us
compare our constitutional provisions with those of the American
Constitution. 322. Under the American Constitution Supreme Court Judges are appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Senate and no
qualifications are necessary for the appointment to the court nor are any
stipulations mentioned therein. The Judges, however, serve for life during
good behaviour and may be removed by impeachment almost in the same manner
as provided for in our own Constitution. Section 1 of article I and the
American Constitution runs thus : (Rocco, J. Tresolini : AMERICAN
CONTITUTIONAL LAW (1959 Edition))

All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the
United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives. (p. 613)

And Section 1 of Article II reads thus : (Rocco, J. Tresolini : AMERICAN
CONTITUTIONAL LAW (1959 Edition))

The executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States of
America. He shall hold his office during the term of four years, and,
together with the Vice-President, chosen for the same term, be elected, as
follows : (p. 618) 323. Thus, under Section 1 of Article I while legislative power completely
vests in the Congress, the executive power vets in the President. Here, our
Constitution makes a distinct departure by making the President, in whom
the executive power vests, to be bound by the advice of the council of
Ministers. Therefore, under our Constitution for all practical intents and
purposes the executive power vests in the Council of Ministers only and the
President is bound to accept the advice of the Council of Ministers.
Proviso to clause (1) of Article 74 may be extracted thus :Provided that
the President may require the Council of Ministers to reconsider such
advice, either generally or otherwise, and the President shall act in
accordance with the advice tendered after such reconsideration. 324. Under this proviso, the President has no doubt the power to require
the Council of Ministers to reconsider the advice if he (President)
entertains any doubt in respect of the advice tendered to him, but if the
same advice is given to him after reconsideration, the same is binding on
him. Clause (2) of Article 74 bars any inquiry by a court into the nature
of the advice tendered by Council of Ministers to the President. 325. Thus, under our Constitution the executive power does not vest
absolutely in the President as in the case of America where the President
has got vast powers and is assisted by his Advisers who are called
Secretaries. 326. Then we come to Article III of the U.S. Constitution, which is most
relevant for our purpose. Section 1 of the said Article runs thus : (Rocco,
J. Tresolini : AMERICAN CONTITUTIONAL LAW (1959 Edition))

The judicial powers of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time
ordain and establish. The Judges, both of Supreme and inferior Courts shall
hold their office during good behaviour, and shall, at stated times,
receive for their services, a compensation, which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office. (pp. 620-21) 327. Thus, the judicial power vests completely in the Supreme Court or such
inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time establish or ordain. Section 2 of Article III provides that the judicial power shall extend to
all cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution, including laws
of the United States, treaties made and cases affecting Ambassadors,
Ministers and Consuls, etc. 328. Thus, in the American Constitution by virtue of the fact that the
entire judicial power is vested in the Supreme Court or other courts, the
appointments have to be made by the Supreme Court, unlike the provisions of
our Constitution where appointments are to be made by the President in
consultation both with judicial and executive authorities as indicated
above. Therefore, in expounding the concept of separation, the essential
distinctive features which differentiate our Constitution from the American
Constitution must be kept in mind. 329. An attempt was made by Mr. S. P. Gupta, one of the petitioners, to
establish that even under our Constitution the judicial power exclusively
vests in the CJI who takes the place of Council of Ministers. This argument
is wholly unacceptable and cannot be countenanced because it is against the
clear and express provisions of Articles 224 , 222 and 217 of our
Constitution. However, this matter has been elaborately dealt with by
brother Desai and Venkataramiah, JJ. and I entirely agree with their
opinions and have nothing useful to add so far as this aspect of the matter
is concerned. 330. Lastly, on the question of separation of powers, apart from what we
have said it may be noticed that so far as farmers of our Constitution are
concerned they had deliberately rejected the theory of complete insulation
of the judicial system from the executive control. During the formative
process of our Constitution though jurists like Shri B. N. Rau and Dr.
Ambedkar wanted to give larger powers to the CJI or to a Council of State
which may be appointed so as to be a judicial body but these ideas were not
accepted and ultimately the Constitution emerged as a valuable document
which vests complete power in the President. The facts will be borne out
from the observations made on pages 338-339 of Shiva Rao's The Framing of
India's Constitution (Vol. IV), and on pages 128-132 of The Indian
Constitution - Cornerstone of Nation by G. Austin. Even an attempt of Dr.
Austin and others to introduce instrument of instructions to provide guide-
lines for the action to be taken by the President was rejected. 331. In fact, the method of appointment adopted by our country seems to
have been followed in every democratic country except the United States
where, as already shown, the Judges are not appointed by the executive
excepting the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court but by the judiciary. Even
in America, the Federal Court Judges of the States are not appointed by the
judiciary. Similarly, in France, West Germany, Japan, Malawi and Sri Lanka
the power of appointment of judges vests in the executive [vide Garner : 332. It would appear that our Constitution has devised a wholesome and
effective mechanism for the appointment of judges which strikes a just
balance between the judicial and executive powers so that while the final
appointment vests in the highest authority of the executive, the power is
subject to a mandatory consultative process which by convention is entitled
to great weight by the President. Apart from these safety valves, checks
and balances at every stage, where the power of the President is abused or
misused or violates any of the constitutional safeguards it is always
subject to judicial review. The power of judicial review, which has been
conceded by the Constitution to the judiciary, is in our opinion the safest
possible safeguard not only to ensure independence of judiciary but also to
prevent it from the vagaries of the executive. Another advantage of the
method adopted by our Constitution is that by vesting the entire power in
the President, the following important elements are introduced : 333. If absolute powers were to be vested in the judiciary alone for all
its spheres of activities (appointment, retirement, removal, etc.) then the
element of absolutism may have crept in, resulting in irreparable harm to
the great judicial institution. Another reason why the power of appointment
in the judiciary was not vested absolutely was to avoid judicial
interference in the day-to-day working of the legislative or parliamentary
institutions. 334. Dr. Singhvi submitted that independence of judiciary comprises two
fundamental and indispensable elements, viz., (1) independence of judiciary
as an organ and as one of the three functionaries of the State, and (2)
independence of the individual judge. 335. There can be no quarrel that this proposition is absolutely correct.
Our Constitution fully safeguards the independence of Judges as also of the
judiciary by a three-fold method - (1) by guaranteeing complete safety of tenure to judges except removal in
cases of incapacity or misbehaviour which is not only a very complex and
complicated procedure but a difficult and onerous one,(2) by giving
absolute independence to the Judges to decide the cases according to their
judicial conscience without being influenced by any other consideration and
without any interference from the executive. Article 50 clearly provides
that the State shall take steps to separate the judiciary from the
executive in the public services of the State. This important Directive
Principle enshrined in Article 50 has been carried out by the Code of
Criminal Procedure which seeks to achieve complete separation of judiciary
from the executive,

(3) so far as the subordinate judiciary is concerned the provisions of
Articles 233-236 vest full and complete control over them in the High
Court. Only at the initial stage of the appointment of Munsifs or the
District Judges, the Governor is the appointing authority and he is to act
in consultation with the High Court but in all other matters like positing,
promotion, etc., as interpreted by this Court in Samsher Singh case
(Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, : 1974 Lab IC 1380 : , the High Court 
exercises absolute and unstinted control over the
subordinate judiciary. Promotion, holding of disciplinary inquiry,
demotion, suspension of Sub-Judges lie with the High Court and the Governor
has nothing to do with the same. Hinting on the nature of the separation of powers brought about by our
Constitution, this Court in Chandra Mohan v. State of U.P. made the following observations
: 336. This Court has in several cases held that the condition of
consultation which the Governor has to exercise implies that he would have
to respect the recommendations of the High Court and cannot turn it down
without cogent reasons and even if he does so, it is manifest that his
order is always subject to judicial review on the ground of mala fide or
exceeding his jurisdiction. 337. These are sufficient safeguards to ensure the independence of
judiciary. The argument of Dr. Singhvi goes a step further so as to import
the American concept of absolute independence in our Constitution which,
however, is not permissible because as indicated above the provisions
relating to judiciary of our Constitution and American Constitution are
essentially different. 338. Dr. Singhvi then advanced the same argument which was put forward by
Mr. Seervai that a transfer without consent would be punitive both in
concept and consequences and would promote a relationship of master and
servant which is inapplicable to the case of Judges and the Chief Justices.
We are, however, unable to accept this extreme argument because for the
reasons that we have already given a transfer in public interest is an
extraordinary provision which does not entail any stain or stigma and is a
constitutional step which completely excludes the concept of master-servant
relationship. 339. Dr. Singhvi later rightly laid greater stress on the nature and extent
of the consultative process in the case of transfer. It was also submitted
that even if a judge is transferred individually, public interest, which
leads to his transfer, would also have to be examined by the court. We
propose to examine this aspect in greater detail when we deal with
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981. At the moment it is sufficient to state
that for the reasons that we have already given a non-consensual transfer
cannot be treated as punitive, penal or punishment. Furthermore, we might
state here that after a general policy is evolved by the Government for
transfer of Judges of the High Court in order to ensure the goal of having
1/3rd judges in each State from outside the State, such a policy would be
fully justified not only on the ground of public interest but in the larger
interest of the country as a whole to promote integration and crush
parochialism and provincialism. If this is done, then the question of
effective consultation would have to be looked from a different angle.
Similarly, a general policy to have CJs from outside in every State would
serve the same national interest and there also the effective consultation
is to be confined only to the just exceptions that may be made while
pursuing this policy. 340. The last question that remains to be determined is as to whether the
proposal for transfer of judges from one High Court to another should
emanate for the CJI or from the President. In this connection, the
Solicitor-General has produced a memorandum showing the procedure to be
adopted in connection with the appointment and transfer of judges. This
Memorandum cannot take the place of a statute or a constitutional document.
It merely prescribes the manner in which the proposal can be processed.
From a plain language of Article 222 it is manifest that the proposal for
transfer can emanate either from the CJI or from the President through the
Union Minister for Law and Justice. What is important is whichever
authority initiates the transfer, the conditions prescribed under Article
222 must be complied with, viz., (a) if the proposal emanates from the President, he must ascertain the
views of the CJI which are entitled to great weight, and (b) as Article 222 contemplates consultation with the highest judicial
authority in the whole country, it is obvious that the CJI also represents
the judge or the judges who are sought to be transferred. 341. As a logical result of this concept, it would be necessary for the
CJI, on receiving the proposal from the President, to ascertain the views
of the judge concerned and his personal circumstances or objections, if
any, and then after applying his mind to them, place the same before the
President through the Law Minister. Thereafter, the matter would have to be
processed according to the Rules of Business and advice sent to the
President for formal orders. 342. Where, however, the proposal emanates from the CJI himself, then he
should collect the necessary facts and examine the reasons given by the
Minister concerned for the transfer and before giving his opinion or advice
to the Minister he would have to consult the judge concerned and ascertain
his views and give due consideration to them. Thereafter he should also
communicate the views expressed by the judge concerned - whether against or
in favour of the proposal - to the President through the Minister concerned
so that even if the CJI does not agree with the view of the judge, the
President may be in a position to give his decision finally one way or the
other. 343. These are the essential requirements of Article 222 which are briefly
contained in the memorandum though not strictly in consonance with what we
have said above. We might hasten to add here that although the Constitution
does not mention either the Chief Minister or the Governor of the State
being consulted in the manner of transfer of a judge from one High Court to
another but the memorandum provides for this procedure in order to solve
some practical difficulties because when a judge is transferred from one
State to another the transferor State must be told to make necessary
arrangements for appointing his successor and similarly at the other end
the receiving State would have to make adequate arrangements for the
residence and other facilities which are to be given to the judge
concerned. In this process, the Chief Minister or the Governor of the two
States may express their opinion but the President is not bound under Article 222 to accept their views. It does not appear to be the intention
of the memorandum to supplant two additional authorities for the purpose of
consultation, for that would be in direct contravention of Article 222 which merely stipulates consultation with the CJI and impliedly the judge
concerned. Thus, the information given by the Chief Ministers and the
Governors of the States is merely for the limited purpose of ascertaining
their views and other matters referred to above and is not, therefore, a
part of the consultative process enshrined in Article 222 otherwise if
additional authorities are introduced for the purpose of being consulted,
then the memorandum will be clearly violative of Article 222. 344. Thus, the Memorandum while prescribing that the proposal should
emanate from the President does not exclude the other alternative, viz.,
that the proposal should emanate from the CJI. In Transferred Case No. 24
of 1981 it is clear that the proposal of transfer of Justice K. B. N. Singh
and others emanated from the CJI and that in our opinion was perfectly
legal and constitutional and does not offend the provisions of the
memorandum as suggested by counsel for the petitioners because the
memorandum does not and cannot in any way debar the CJI from initiating the
proposal if he wants to do so. 345. This, therefore, disposes of all the contentions of the counsel for
the parties so far as the various aspects of interpretation of Article 222 are concerned. On a consideration, therefore, of the facts, circumstances
and authorities the position is as follows : 346. For the reasons given above, the contentions of Mr. Seervai, Dr.
Singhvi and others fail and are overruled. Point No. 3 - Policy of General Transfers 347. We now come to the question of involving a general policy of transfers
(for short, to be referred to as the 'Policy') of Judges or Chief Justices
from the home State to other States so that each State or a majority of
them has a CJ from outside. Policy has two important limbs - (1) transfer
of CJ or Judges from one High Court to another, and (2) recruitment of one-
third judges in each High Court from outside the State in which the High
Court is situate. The earliest roots and the foundation for evolving the
aforesaid Policy are to be found even when article 222 was in the process
of its birth. The most prophetic and pregnant observations of Dr. Ambedkar
give a clear clue to the desire expressed and the goal sought to be
achieved by introducing Article 222. These lines from his speech may be
extracted thus :Secondly, it might be desirable to import a new Chief
Justice to a High Court because it might be desirable to have a man who is
unaffected by local politics and local jealousies. We thought therefore
that the power to transfer should be placed in the hands of the Central
Government. [p. 580, Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 11 1994] 348. These observations have a historical significance having been made by
one of the greatest jurists, constitutionalist and one of the eminent
Founding Fathers of our Constitution and perhaps the highest tribute that
we can pay to the dedicated service of Dr. Ambedkar is to involve a Policy
and thus fulfil the pious wish and the last desire of the great jurist. 349. Nevertheless, the idea of evolving the Policy came to be seriously
thought of when the States Reorganisation Commission (hereinafter referred
to as the 'SRC') was entrusted with the arduous task of recommending
reorganisation of States on linguistic basis - a step which was long
overdue having been the subject of one of the earliest Resolutions passed
by our freedom fighters - a solemn promise made to the Nation by its
political leaders to be fulfilled as soon as the country attained freedom.
This process of reorganisation was not a bed of roses but was fraught with
grave consequences leading to parochialism and provincialism which, if not
properly checked, controlled or safeguarded, might have brought about
disintegration of the entire country. Perhaps this was one of the main
reasons why the SRC being fully alive to these dangers tried its best to
see that the reorganisation of States did not lead to disintegration and
accordingly suggested a number of measures including a strong and
independent judiciary free from parochial and fissiparous tendencies. We,
therefore, start the question of policy of transfers with the Report of the
SRC which tried to tackle the second limb of the Policy of importing one-
tired judges in the High Court from outside. In this connection, it might
be appropriate to refer to certain observations made by the SRC in the
concluding portions of its Report :846. We have now come to the end of our
appointed task. The problem of reorganisation of States has aroused such
passions and the claims which have been made are so many and is conflicting
that the background against which this whole problem has to be dealt with
may quite often be obscured or even forgotten. In order that the
recommendations which we have made may be viewed in proper perspective, we
should like to emphasise two basic facts. Firstly, the States, whether they
are reorganised or not, are and will continue to be integral parts of a
Union which is far and away the more real political entity and the basis of
our nationhood. Secondly, the Constitution of India recognises only one
citizenship, a common citizenship for the entire Indian people, with equal
rights and opportunities throughout the Union. (p. 229) 350. Speaking in the same strain the SRC further observed thus : The desire of the local people for the State services being manned mainly
by "the sons of the soil" is understandable, but only up to a point. When
such devices as domicile rules operate to make the public services an
exclusive preserve of the majority language group of the State, this is
bound to cause discontent among the other groups, apart from impeding the
free flow of talent and imparting administrative efficiency. (p. 230) 351. The SRC repeated the same concept in paras 854 and 856 of its Report
thus : State coordination for the efficient implementation of all-India
policies.856. The Central and State Governments have to work in very close
cooperation in executing important development projects, which necessitates
that technical personnel should be recruited and trained on a common basis
and that they should have uniforms standards of efficiency and the felling
of belonging to common and important cadres. 352. The SRC made the following further observations in paras 868, 870 and
871 : General of India, and this high-powered Commission fully endorsed the SRC
Report and even suggested a mechanism to implement the recommendations. 355. It is true that at that time the idea of having judges or CJs from
outside the State had not been suggested or conceived though, as pointed
out above, Dr. Ambedkar had hinted at it even during the formative process
of Article 222. This now brings us to the 14th Report of the Law
Commission, headed by Mr. Setalvad, where for the first time the policy of
having a CJ in every High Court from outside was not only suggested but
supported by a large body of independent persons. Dwelling on this aspect
of the matter the Law Commission in its 14th Report at page 76 (para 26)
observed thus : 356. The observations referred to above clearly show that as far back as
1958 there was a strong view in favour of filling up the vacancies of CJs
by appointing a judge from outside the State. Although the Law Commission
did not entirely agree with this opinion but it did notice that there was
sufficient evidence to justify the same. As regards the other limb of the
Policy to appoint one-third judges in each High Court from outside the
State, the Law Commission fully endorsed it and its recommendations on this
subject may be extracted thus : 357. In September 1963 a Study Team was appointed by the Administrative
Reforms Commission (hereinafter referred to as 'ARC Study Team') to give
its report on Centre-State relations. The said Study Team in its Report at
page 190 (paras 13-20) suggested that so ar as practicable one-third of the
number of Judges of the High Court should be from outside. In other words,
the ARC Study Team also endorsed the SRC Report and the 14th Report of the
Law Commission. 358. Immediately following the ARC Study Team Report, a meeting of the
committee of Zonal Council for National Integration was held on August 31,
1964 and in its Report on Item 1(viii)(b) the said Committee made the
following recommendation : "The Committee also commended the idea that as a
convention, the Chief Justice of the High Court of a State should be a
person from outside the State." 359. It would appear that the said Committee gave full effect to the large
body of public opinion which had expressed its intention before the Law
Commission (14th Report) that in every High Court the Chief Justice should
be from outside the State, and the Committee fully endorsed this view.
Thus, the inescapable conclusion seems to be that right from 1954 up to
1964, the two limbs of the Policy referred to above were being debated and
ultimately definite views were expressed by independent persons that a
policy, consisting of the two limbs, be evolved and followed. 360. In 1967 the ARC Study Team headed by Mr. M. C. Setalvad, passed a
clear Resolution that as far as practicable, one-third of the number of
judges should be from outside. 361. Another Law Commission was set up some time in 1978 and the Bar
Council of India in its reply dated September 8, 1979 to questions Nos. 11
and 12 answered thus : 362. In his speech on February 26, 1979 in the Lok Sabha Debates, Mr. P.
Shiv Shankar, who was then a Member of Parliament only and not even in the
then Ruling Party, expressed his opinion thus : 363. In a meeting of the Consultative Committee for the Law Ministry, held
on June 7, 1980, where Members of Parliament belonging to opposition
parties were also present, the unanimous view was : 364. Another meeting of the Consultative Committee from the Ministry of Law
held on July 24, 1980 fully reiterated and affirmed the view taken by the
earlier Committee mentioned above. 365. Another meeting of the Consultative Committee held on December 17,
1980 which consisted of Members of Parliament of the opposition parties
including Bapusaheb Parulekar, also favoured outside appointments. 366. In its 80th Report, the Law Commission headed by an eminent Judge of
this Court, Mr. Justice H. R. Khanna, in paras 6.21 and 6.22 made the
following observations : We have given the matter our earnest consideration and are in substantial
agreement with the recommendations mentioned above. In our opinion, there
should be a convention, according to which one-third of Judges in each High
Court should be from another State. This would normally have to be done
through the process of initial appointments, and not by transfer. It would
also in the very nature of things be a slow and gradual process and take
some years before we reach the proportion. 6.22. Evolving such a convention would, in our opinion, not only help in
the process of national integration but would also improve the functioning
of various High Courts. It would secure on the Bench of each High Court the
presence of a number of judges who would not be swayed by local
considerations or affected by issues which may rouse local passions and
emotions... . We in India are in the fortunate position of having a vast
country. There can, therefore, be no difficulty in having a certain
percentage of judges who hail from other States. The advantages gained by
having persons from other States as judges would be much greater compared
with any disadvantage which might result therefrom. 367. A national Seminar was held on judicial appointment between October
17-19, 1980 at Ahmedabad, in which various eminent speakers participated
and freely expressed their views. The Seminar was organised by the Bar
Council of India Trust and its deliberations may be extracted thus : 368. Thus, the preponderance of opinion in the Seminar favoured the
dominant aspects of the Policy, viz., principle of transfer of Judges and
that one-third Judges should be from outside the State, in order to promote
national integration and preservation of a unified judicial system. 369. Another meeting of the Consultative Committee of Members of Parliament
for the Law Ministry was held on September 3, 1981, in which Members
belonging to the opposition parties were also present, and there also the
preponderance which emerged was in favour of having CJs from outside the
State and one-third of Judges to be recruited in each High Court from
outside. In this connection, it may be useful to extract certain relevant
portions from the speeches of the Members. Shri Nanda [Congress (S)]
observed thus :Participating in the discussion, Shri Nanda Congress (S)
made particular reference to the Seminar organised by the Bar Council of
India at Ahmedabad and the discussions held there on the issue of transfer
of Judges and appointments from outside. He wanted to know Government's
reaction to the various proposals made at the Conference on this aspect. He
emphasized that on the question of appointments of outsiders and transfers,
the Consultative Committee had made definite and positive recommendations
and Government should implement them... 370. Shri S. C. Mohanta (LD) expressed his views thus : 371. Shri Jamil-ur-Rahman (Congress) observed thus : "It would be in the
national interest to transfer judges from one High Court to other, and
there should be no hesitation in doing this." 372. Shri Dandapani (DMK) supported the view and observed thus : 373. Shri Hari Nath Mishra (Congress) was of the following view : 374. Shri Bhogendra Jha (CPI) observed thus : 375. The Law Minister presiding over the deliberations of the Consultative
Committee pointed out that the delay in evolving a policy was due to the
fact that he was ascertaining the views of the Chief Justice of India but a
final decision was yet to be taken. In this connection, he observed thus : 376. So far as the CJI is concerned, he was firmly opposed to the wholesale
transfers of all CJs from one High Court to another without objective
reasons though selective transfers could be made in appropriate cases for
objective reasons. On March 18, 1981 and CJI observed that at least a few
of the new appointments to every High Court were in fact made from outside
the State. In April 1981 he opined that at least one-third of the new
appointments to the High Court should be made from outside. 377. So far as the second limb of the Policy is concerned, viz., that each
High Court should have one-third of its strength of Judges from outside the
State, the CJI clearly concurred with this view but his main grievance
seems to have been against the whole sale transfers of CJs so that each
High Court had a CJ from outside. According to the CJI, such a policy was
fraught with grave consequences and serious inconvenience which may be
caused to most of the CJs. In spite of the stand taken by the CJI the Law
Minister on behalf of the central Government, tried his best to persuade
him (CJI) to agree to a uniform policy of transfer of CJs - a policy which
had found favour with eminent jurists, politicians, lawyers and
parliamentarians, but the CJI seems to have posed stiff resistance to the
aforesaid Policy. 378. The Law Minister participating in the discussions in the Rajya Sabha
on July 30, 1980 on the question of transfer of CJs from one High Court to
another spoke thus : 379. In his speech, the Law Minister also said few things about the manner
in which the mechanism to give effect to the Policy may be devised. In a
later speech on July 24, 1980 in the Lok Sabha while dealing with the
question of mechanism for giving effect to the Policy, the Law Minister
observed as follows : 380. In order, however, to be fair to the CJI for having expressed a strong
view against the proposal for giving effect to a uniform policy of transfer
of CJs, it may be necessary to go through the various letters exchanged
between the CJI and the Law Minister to know the reasons and the
circumstances under which the CJI had voiced his opposition. 381. To begin with, in a note dated May 15, 1980 (which is contained in one
of the files disclosed under the majority Order of this Court), the Law
Minister once more wanted to ascertain the final view of the CJI thus
:While this file may be referred to the CJI for his advice, I feel that we
should also examine about evolving the policy to appoint the Chief Justice
of a High Court from the High Court other than the High Court to which the
Chief Justice is to be appointed. I had passingly discussed this issue some
time back with the CJI. The fact remains that in the various High Courts
the problems of caste and regionalism, etc., are looming large. 382. In reply to this, the CJI drew the attention of the Law Minister to
the following facts which may be extracted thus : 383. It would appear from the contents of the note extracted above that the
CJI was opposed only against any ad hoc decisions without evolving an all-
Indian policy for appointment of CJs. He had deliberately remained silent
on the question of the policy regarding transfer of CJs. 384. In his minute dated July 31, 1980 while expressing his opposition to
the uniform policy the CJI clearly stated that he had an open mind; the
relevant portion may be extracted thus : 385. It appears that the CJI himself appears to be in two minds - whether
or not to accept the uniform policy - and was weighing the merits and
demerits in the balanced scales of justice. Ultimately, it seems that he
appears to have finally made up his mind to oppose the policy of wholesale
transfer of CJs. This would be clear from his letter dated December 7, 1980
addressed to the Law Minister where he had expressed his opinion fairly,
frankly and without any reservation thus : 386. This, therefore, marks the end of the epoch so far as the CJI was
concerned. After examining the entire history of the case, the various
opinions expressed by top legal luminaries, statesmen, politicians and
jurists right from 1958 to 1981, we are absolutely convinced that the idea
of the Central Government of a uniform policy of transfer of CJs, so that
each State has a CJ from outside, is a very essential, useful, sensible and
a wise one which cuts at the roots of so many evils with which not only our
country but even the higher judiciary is faced. Some of these aspects heave
been dealt with by the Law Minister and other legal luminaries in the
various extracts quoted above. 387. Secondly, such a uniform policy will be in the better interest of the
concerned Judge himself because however disinterested or independent he may
be, he is bound to be influenced either consciously or unconsciously by
interested persons who choose to exploit him even without his knowledge. A
clear instance of this is to be found in the case of Justice K. B. N. Singh
which has been fully clarified by the CJI in his counter-affidavit in
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981. As, however, this is a very sensitive
matter we would not like to go into the details or comparative merit or
demerit of the Policy but by and large we are absolutely confident that
such a Policy would enhance the prestige of the judiciary, ensure its
independence and make the working of the head of the judiciary in the State
more efficient and generate a greater confidence in the people of the new
State where he is transferred. 388. The only objection which has been pointed out against this policy is
the language problem but that also does not appear to be an insurmountable
obstacle because while laying down the policy the Government can start with
transfers of CJs within the zones as recommended by the Law Commission
which will minimise the language difficulty. In making the transfers, there
would be no serious objection if the CJ is allowed to indicate his choice
regarding the State where he would be prepared to be transferred and the
same may be accepted as far as practicable. So far as recruitment of one-
third judges at the initial stage is concerned, this will no doubt present
some difficulties in the beginning because several constitutional
authorities would have to be consulted but this difficulty can be overcome
either by the appropriate method adopted by the circular or any mechanism
similar to the same. We would like to suggest that the Chief Justice of
each High Court should be asked to prepare a panel of suitable persons who
are considered for appointment as High Court Judges both from the Bar and
from the subordinate judiciary. Before including the name of the persons
concerned their previous consent for being appointed outside the State may
be obtained by the CJ. This can be done by determining the strength of the
panel so that it may form one-third of the total strength of permanent
Judges already fixed by the President or as may be fixed from time to time.
The Civil List of Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts gives the
sanctioned strength of permanent and Additional Judges. One-third of the
strength of the permanent Judges according to the vacancies that fall
should be reserved for the persons found suitable and who are willing to
serve outside the State. It would be better if the persons whose names are
included in the panel are appointed outside the State as permanent Judges
which would provide an attractive offer and give a better impetus to the
persons aspiring for judgeship and would tempt them to serve outside the
State. 389. This procedure should be continued without any break through a phased
programme and the ultimate result would be that after a few years, the
outside judges in each High court will pick up their seniority and would
become eligible for being appointed as CJ of the High Court in which they
were appointed. Thus, after the retirement of the present CJs or the
transferee CJs a time may come when automatically every High Court will
have a CJ from outside because the seniormost judge who was initially
recruited from outside would, if found suitable in all respects, be
appointed Chief Justice of the said High Court. Such a scheme would be a
continuous implementation of the policy. 390. Moreover, once the Government takes a final decision considering the
diverse views expressed by politicians, jurists, lawyers, parliamentarians
and respectable citizens, in respect of having a uniform policy by which
every CJ should be from outside the State, the Government can lay down such
a policy by a Presidential Order. If that is done, there would be no just
or lawful cause for the CJI to withhold his consent to implement such a
uniform policy because once a policy is evolved and given effect to, the
idea of making selective transfers would lose its significance and value
and would perhaps be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution because
selective transfers would always result in some sort of discrimination, for
in each case, the CJI would have to justify the classification made by him. 391. It is true that neither Law Commission set up in 1958 nor the one set
up in 1978 had totally agreed with the first limb of the Policy, i.e.,
transfer of CJs from one State to another so that each State has a CJ from
outside although they did find in unequivocal terms that there was a
sufficiently vocal section of the public favouring such a policy of
transfers. This was perhaps because by that time all the various shades and
aspects, mechanisms and methods of evolving such a policy had not been
fully explored nor did the State policy till that time ripen into a
wholesome policy after having considered the various facets of the matter
with frankness, forthrightness and objectivity. 392. Indeed what had been noticed by the Law Commission in 1958, that is
about more than two decades hence (sic), has become absolutely essential
today in view of the modern trends of casteism, nepotism and patronage in
the higher echelons of judiciary. Furthermore, as a result of the
insufficient emoluments and poor conditions of service, we are not able to
muster men of high calibre and eminence for appointment to the High Courts.
With great reluctance we have to observe that an atmosphere seems to
prevail today in most of the High Courts where judges are being exploited
and in some cases perhaps without their knowledge, which has brought the
most sacred and sacrosanct institution of the judiciary into serious
disrepute. The only honourable remedy for this malady is the implementation
of the first limb of the Policy. 393. Nevertheless, regarding the second limb of the policy in regard to
recruitment of one-third judges from outside the State, as far as possible
at the initial stage, both the Commissions have unanimously acclaimed and
approved such a step. 394. Brother Venkataramiah has taken the view that although the CJI was
opposed to the wholesale transfers of all CJs, his opposition was only with
respect to all these transfers being made at a particular time. In other
words, Venkataramiah, J. suggests that the CJI was quite agreeable to the
Policy being carried out if the CJs are transferred not in a block but by
stages and in due course of time. We are, however, unable to agree with
this argument because this runs counter to the clear intention expressed by
the CJI in the letters discussed above. Moreover, it will be rather unfair
to the CJI also to say that he had merely opposed wholesale transfers made
at one time but had agreed to the Policy of uniform transfers if made by
stages. The view taken by the CJI may not appeal to us or perhaps to the
majority of the jurists but it cannot be said that there is absolutely no
substance in the stand taken by the CJI. His point of view is also quite
understandable but, with greatest respect to him, what he has missed is the
great public interest the policy subserves by promoting national
integration and curbing fissiparous tendencies that have started raising
their heads and completely excludes discrimination which may result in
cases of selective transfers. 395. Brother Venkataramiah has also expressed his view that the transfers
proposed by the CJI, which were quite a number of them, were actually in
aid and implementation of the Policy formulated by the Government and,
therefore, even if there was no effective consultation, the transfers would
be valid. We regret that we are unable to accept this view because it is
the common case of all the parties that although the suggestion to evolve a
policy has been mooted no such Policy has yet been evolved or finalised
because even according to the Law Minister, the mechanism is yet to be
determined which would have to be left to the Supreme Court. This is,
further supported by the statement of the Law Minister which was produced
by the Solicitor-General where the Law Minister merely says that the Policy
view was put across to the CJI who expressed his opposition to all the CJs
of the High Courts being from outside. The Government, however, acceded to
the transfers proposed by the CJI as - (1) it was felt that not agreeing to
these transfers may be construed as though the Government was departing
from its view of having CJs from outside, and (2) the policy aspect could
still be pressed into service later. 396. Thus the statement of the Law Minister clinches the issue and
establishes the fact beyond doubt that no uniform policy has so far been
evolved and the said Policy, if any, is still in the making. This being so,
the question of the CJI proceeding to implement the Policy by proposing the
transfers would not arise. 397. On other points, we entirely agree with Brother Venkataramiah and
other Brother Judges that the policy is good, reasonable, fruitful and
constitutionally valid. 398. Thus, a close and careful scrutiny of the correspondence between the
Law Minister and the CJI over a year on the issue of evolving a general
policy of transfer of CJs so that each State has a CJ from outside could
not be finalised and what happened was that only sporadic transfers were
recommended by the CJI. As indicated above Brother Venkataramiah has in his
lucid judgment seems to have construed the letter dated December 7, 1980 of
the CJI to indicate merely that he was against wholesale transfers to be
made at one stroke and what he suggested was that these transfers should be
made in stages and not on a single day. In other words, Venkataramiah, J.
is of the view that the transfers recommended in the CJI's letter dated
December 7, 1980 and December 20, 1980 were merely in implementation of the
general policy of transfer of CJs so that every High Court has a CJ from
outside. With due respect, we are unable to spell out such an intention of
the CJI from the clear contents of the letters which in fact and in purpose
rejects the general policy of wholesale transfers of the CJs as suggested
by the Law Minister. He has ultimately expressed himself very clearly and
strongly that he was against such a universal policy of wholesale transfers
and would be willing only to consider individual cases on their merits,
leaving apart personal considerations and for objective reasons. 399. Secondly, since it is the admitted case of the Government that while
they were thinking of evolving a general policy of transfer of CJs, the
policy had not yet taken any final shape nor did the Government take any
conclusive decision on this important matter, with due respect, therefore,
we do not agree with the view taken by brother Venkataramiah, J. on this
point. 400. As regards the Government's idea of evolving a general policy to
effect transfers of CJs in a manner which puts every High Court under the
CJ from outside the State, is undoubtedly a very sound and acceptable
policy as found by us. We have pointed out from the various reports
discussed above that ever since the date of the Report of the SRC was given
the idea of having Judges from outside the State was clearly mooted.
Furthermore, while we are examining the Policy sought to be evolved by the
Government, at the present moment we cannot shut our eyes to the stark and
hard realities of life. Ever since the linguistic provinces came into
existence as a result of the SRC Report, attempts have been made to see
that the linguistic division of the State does not create disintegration of
our big country which is the largest democracy in the world. In fact,
lawyers, judges, politicians, jurists, members of the Bar and other
statesmen have applied their minds and expressed themselves strongly in
favour of the policy sought to be evolved by the Government. In view,
however, of the changed circumstances, in our opinion, such a policy is not
only proper but essential as being the prime need of the hour. We cannot
but take notice of the fissiparous and parochial tendencies that have
started raising their heads threatening disintegration of the country. The
dark clouds of separatism, conservatism and parochialism have started
casting their shadows on the entire country and it is high time that such a
sacred and sacrosanct institution like the High Courts should be protected
and kept aloof from such evil forces. It is manifest that a CJ from outside
will apply an independent approach both in discharging his judicial duties
as a Judge and in recommending appointment of members of the Bar or service
to the High Court and his selection will not be inspired or tainted by any
local or personal consideration because he would be an outsider in the High
Court of a State where he presides. Further, even the litigant would have
much greater confidence in such a CJ than in a local person. 401. We would like to reiterate at the risk of repetition that having
regard to the inadequate emoluments of the High Court Judges and their
conditions of service which leave much to be desired, there has been a fall
in the standards of efficiency and competency. Lawyers possessing great
calibre and eminence are extremely reluctant to accept judgeship of a High
Court. Thus, the choice and selection of suitable persons has become
extremely difficult and experience has shown that in a number of High
Courts suitable persons have not been appointed. 402. It has been vehemently argued by Mr. Seervai as also by Mr. Sorabjee
who followed him that their main concern is that independence of judiciary
should be maintained at all cost. Indeed, if they are really concerned that
we should build up an independent judiciary then it is absolutely essential
that new talents from outside should be imported in every High Court either
to man it or to head it so that they may generate much greater confidence
in the people than the local Judges. The position of a CJ is indeed a very
high constitutional position and our Constitution contains sufficient
safeguards to protect both his decision-making process and his tenure. It
is a well-known saying that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts
absolutely. As man is not infallible, so is a Chief Justice, though a
person holding a high judicial post is likely to be incorruptible because
of the quality of sobriety and restraint that the judicial method contains.
Even so, if a CJ is from outside the State, the chances of his misusing his
powers are reduced to the absolute minimum. We have pointed out that the
power to formulate or evolve this policy clearly lies within the four
corners of Article 222 itself which contains a very wide power conditioned
only by consultation with CJI who is the highest judicial authority in the
country. It is always open to the president, which in practice means the
Central Government, to lay down a policy, norms and guidelines according to
which the presidential powers are to be exercised and once these norms are
followed, the powers of the President would be beyond judicial review. 403. We might also mention that as against policy transfer selective
transfers of CJs to High Courts other than the one where they are working
or may be appointed, contains the colour of discrimination and
arbitrariness because however careful the CJI may be if he starts picking
and choosing CJs from outside the High Courts the element of discrimination
or arbitrariness cannot be reasonably excluded. On the other hand, if a
general policy applying to all and sundry (CJs) is evolved by which every
State would have a CJ from outside no complaint of discrimination can ever
be made. In fact, the very foundation of discrimination would disappear.
The view taken by the CJI, with greatest respect to him, does not appear to
be correct or acceptable and perhaps in his own interest selective
transfers should not be made because even if in one or two cases
discrimination is made due to oversight or bona fide lapse, it will amount
to a great slur on such a high position as the CJI holds. On the other
hand, if a uniform policy of appointing or promoting CJs to High Courts
outside the State is followed it will promote national integration and curb
the fissiparous and parochial tendencies and preserve and protect the
purity of judicial administration. We cannot conceive of any better policy
which would be in greater public interest than the policy of having CJs in
every State from outside. We have already observed that whenever a general
policy or radical change of this kind is made it has to be subject to just
exceptions and the formulation of such a policy would also have to take
within its fold exceptional circumstances applicable to a particular CJ or
CJs - a matter which we shall discuss hereafter. 404. Even as regards the constitutional validity of the general policy
which may be evolved by the Central Government, this Court in Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , had clearly
expressed the view that such a policy would be in public interest. In this
connection, Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) speaking for the majority
judgment observed as follows : (SCC pp. 223-24 & 227, paras 31 & 38)As
regards the first, no one can deny that whatever measures are required to
be taken in order to achieve national integration would be in public
interest. Whether it is necessary to transfer Judges from one High Court to
another in the interests of national integration is a moot point. But that
is a policy matter with which courts are not concerned directly

Policy transfers on a wholesale basis which leave no scope for considering
the facts of each particular case and which are influenced by one-sided
governmental considerations are outside the contemplation of our
Constitution. 405. Doubtless, there appears to be some apparent contradiction between the
two passages extracted above from the judgment of Chandrachud, J. On a
closer scrutiny on these observations his view that policy transfers on
wholesale basis would leave no scope for considering facts of each
particular case cannot be read out of the context and have to be read in
the light of the peculiar facts and circumstances of Sheth case ( Union of
India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , in which transfers were made
by the Government not in pursuance of a policy or public interest but
purely with political motives to punish Judges for sharing a particular
ideology. This is, however, not the case here and therefore as we read the
observations of Chandrachud, J. he has not held the policy of transfer to
be not in public interest in order to promote national integration. 406. For the reasons that we have already given above, we are unable to
agree with the observations where the learned Judge has said that interest
of national integration is a moot point. We have already shown from the
opinions expressed by high constitutional and legal authorities that a
policy of having CJ in every High Court from outside is in great national
interest and perhaps very necessary in order to curb and crush the
fissiparous tendencies which seem to sway our entire country. Bhagwati, J.
while adverting to this aspect of the case observed as follows : (SCC p.
234, para 47)It was admittedly part of mass transfers of 16 High Court
Judges and though a suggestion was made by the Government of India in its
affidavit in reply that the transfers were made with a view to
strengthening national integration by cutting at the barriers of
regionalism and parochialism, the Government of India did not choose to
disclose the principle on which these 16 High Court Judges were picked out
for being transferred. 407. These observations show that Bhagwati, J. did not dispute the
correctness of the policy of national integration but found fault with the
manner in which it was applied by justifying the transfers on a ground
which was not supportable in law. It is obvious that if the transfers would
have been made to strengthen national integration in order to cut the
barriers of regionalism and parochialism, the Judge would have no
hesitation in upholding the State Policy. Krishna Iyer, J. and one of us
(Fazal Ali, J.) also sounded a similar note and observed thus : (SCC p. 264
para 93; p. 275, para 118)

But to promote the community's concern for impeccable litigative justice,
policy-oriented transfer of judges after compliance with constitutionally
spelt-out protocols may not be ruled out. Salutary safeguards to ensure judicial independence with concern for the
all-India character of the superior courts in the context of the paramount
need of national unity and integrity and mindful of the advantages of
inter-State cross-fertilisation and avoidance of provincial
pervicaciousness were all in the calculations of the framers of the
Constitution. 408. Even Untwalia, J. who had dissented from the majority judgment had
admitted that the purpose of national integration was a good thing to be
achieved and in this connection observed thus : "The purpose of national
integration, if otherwise it is a good thing to be achieved,..." (SCC p.
279, para 127) 409. Thus, it would appear that even the judicial pronouncements of this
Court in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , extracted above 
fully favour the formulation of such a policy. Added
to this the commitment made by the Law Minister that once the policy of
wholesale transfers of CJs is evolved the mechanism would be left to the
Supreme Court and the policy be started from the grass-root level by taking
consent of the persons nominated for appointment or Additional Judges who
have not yet been made permanent, the policy can be fully worked out
without any hitch or hindrance. 410. The next question that arises for consideration is as to how the two
limbs of the policy, viz., (1) transfer of CJs from outside, and (2)
recruitment of one-third of judges from outside the State at the initial
level, can be effectuated. Here, we do not find any difficulty whatsoever. Article 222 confers an express power on the President to transfer a judge
(which includes the CJ) from one State to another. This power is not
circumscribed or hedged by any conditions or stipulations excepting that
the CJI has to be consulted. In determining as to how this power can be
exercised, the President undoubtedly possesses an implied power to lay down
the norms, the principles, the conditions and the circumstances under which
the said power is to be exercised so long as he does not overstep the
limits or confines of the power enshrined under Article 222. Since the
implied power lies with the President it is not at all necessary that this
power should be regulated by a legislation or an Act or a rule or a bye-law
or any other instruction. A declaration by the President regarding the
nature and terms of the policy which virtually means declaration by the
Council of Ministers is quite sufficient and absolutely legal and
constitutional to effectuate the policy decided upon. 411. Secondly, as the policy is a general one which applies to all and
sundry without any discrimination or selection, it cannot be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution because the policy will operate equally on
all the Judges or the CJs without any difference or distinction. 412. Thirdly, it is necessary to put the policy beyond the charge of
unreasonableness or arbitrariness that the State policy must be subject to
just exceptions which may be very few, so that the exceptions do not become
a rule or a ruse to destroy the effect of the main policy itself. For
instance, while evolving or formulating a general policy the following
exceptions can be made by the President - (1) that where the personal circumstances of a judge, purely on
humanitarian grounds, are such as may endanger his life, e.g., he may be a
heart patient and so he may not be transferred to a High Court which is
situated in a hill station or at a particular height or he may be suffering
from such disease which may imperil him there or such other circumstances
of a very compelling or pressing nature,

(2) where the Judge or the CJ concerned is about to retire and is to serve
only for a very short term before retirement, his transfer to some other
court would not serve any useful purpose and would be very inconvenient to
him - such a period may vary from one day to six months but not more,

(3) where due to some physical infirmity the CJ concerned has become
immobile and cannot be moved beyond his home State, this may be a just and
humanitarian ground for bringing him under the exceptions to the policy,
and

(4) such other circumstances, either similar to or identical with the
circumstances mentioned above, which in the opinion of the CJI or the
President require due consideration on humanitarian grounds. 413. It is manifest that even if a policy has been finally evolved and
formulated and transfers are sought to be made in pursuance of the policy,
the President has to consult the CJI or where the CJI initiates the
proposal he is to consult the Judge concerned as also the President but the
process of consultation would have to be confined to the four corners of
the just exceptions indicated above and not beyond the same which form part
of the Policy laid down by the President. 414. At the same time, the exceptions should not be so broadly construed as
to destroy the effect and fruitfulness of the policy. 415. Another aspect of the matter is as to whether or not the policy is
legally justifiable and is in public interest so as to be legal and
constitutional. On this aspect of the matter unimpeachable material have
been placed before us to show that right from the framing of the
Constitution up-to-date public opinion has always favoured the transfer of
judges as a matter of uniform policy. As late as 1949 when the Draft
Constitution was made, Dr. Ambedkar, as already indicated, had expressed a
pious wish the judges should be transferred to other States so that they
can apply an independent approach and generate more confidence being above
all local or parochial interests. 416. We must hasten to add that the President before formulating the Policy
should consult the CJI and have his views because the laying down of the
Policy would be under Article 222 and consultation with the CJI being a
necessary concomitant of the said power, even while laying down the Policy,
the consultative process is essential. Although the CJI has at present
shown his stiff opposition to the Policy we hope and trust that when the
matter is reassessed and a policy is finally formulated, the CJI would
eschew his opposition in view of the various factors and circumstances
indicated above as also in due deference to the view of some of the Judges
of this Court who have decided these cases, which, as pointed out by us, is
not only in great public interest but also in national interest of the
country. Moreover, the policy has been amply supported and sponsored not
only by the Government but also by a very large body of public men
including jurists, politicians, lawyers, parliamentarians and others. If
despite these circumstances the CJI does not change his view and sticks to
his opposition of the policy, then we think this will be a fit and proper
case where the President might overrule the CJI and enforce the policy. We
however solemnly hope and trust that such an eventuality would not arise. 417. Before closing this chapter, we would like to say a few words about
the mechanism of giving effect to this Policy. The Law Minister has already
made a statement in the Parliament as indicated above that he is prepared
to leave the mechanism to be devised to the CJI or to the Supreme Court. If
the Supreme Court, which represents cream of all legal and judicial master
minds of 70 crores of the people of our country, is left to adopt the
mechanism, viz., as to which CJ should be posted where and judge the
suitability and the atmosphere of the place of posting, then we think that
nobody can ever complain of any injustice or discrimination against the
mechanism adopted by the Court. We might further state that only the
mechanism is to be left to the Supreme Court which will require a small
constitutional amendment in Article 222 which uses the word CJI alone. For
the time being the mechanism could be left to the CJI who, we hope and
trust, will consult his colleagues before adopting the mechanism in each
case. 418. Before closing this chapter we should now say a few words about the
legal and constitutional effect of the circular said to have been written
by the Union Law Minister. In order to understand the real import of the
said Circular, the same may be extracted in full : 3. While obtaining the consent and the preference of the persons mentioned
in paragraph 2 above, it may be made clear to them that the furnishing of
the consent or the indication of a preference does not imply any commitment
on the part of Government either in regard to their appointment or in
regard to accommodation in accordance with the preferences given. 4. I would be grateful if action is initiated very early by you and the
written consent and preferences of all Additional Judges as well as of
persons recommended by you for initial appointment are sent to me within a
fortnight of the receipt of this letter. 5. I am also sending a copy of this letter to the Chief Justices of your
High Court. With regards

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

To : From the elaborate discussions in respect of the various circumstances and
documents to which we have referred while dealing with the question of
policy, it is manifest that nobody has ever objected to the second limb of
the policy, that is to say, taking one-third of the Judges in a High Court
from outside the State. We have shown that even the CJI has expressed his
entire agreement with this part of the policy. The circular merely seeks to
provide an easy and practical, a rough and ready, and an ingenious and
scientific mechanism to achieve this end. 421. Let us assume that all parties agree that one-third of the Judges in
each High Court should be taken from outside, which seems to be the
absolute consensus that has emerged from the evidence produced by both the
parties. The question is how is this objective to be achieved ? One method
may be as suggested by some Commissions that each High Court should
maintain a panel of members of the Bar and the Services who are suitable
for appointment as Judges of the High Court and exchange these panels with
the CJs of all High Courts. Before making the panel, it is manifest that
the State Government also would have to be consulted, which is also the
requirement of the statute. This is, however, a very complex and
complicated procedure and will take quite a few years before the panel is
formed. 422. So far as Mr. Seervai is concerned, he argued that this cannot be
done. We are, however, unable to agree with him that merely because it may
not be very easy to evolve this limb of the policy, it should be rejected
as being impossible of performance. After all, eminent jurists like Justice
Saiyid Fazl Ali, Justice H. R. Khanna, Mr. M. C. Setalvad and a lot of
others must be given the credit of possessing great knowledge of law and if
they thought that this was an idea which was most impracticable, they would
never have suggested it. 423. The Law Minister by virtue of the circular seeks to hit upon a device
by which this limb of the policy can be achieved. It is obvious that in
almost all the High Courts apart from the permanent Judges, Additional
Judges are working according to the strength fixed by the President in each
High Court. The circular does not cover the permanent Judges of he High
Court at all but it applies only to two kinds of Judges - (1) persons who
are about to be appointed as Additional Judges, and (2) persons who are
working as Additional Judges and whose term is likely to expire. The
circular merely says that the CJs may obtain the consent of the aforesaid
Additional Judges if they would like to be appointed as permanent Judges in
any other High Court in the country and they could name three High Courts
of their choice. There is no compulsion on the Judges to give their consent
: it is merely an option or suggestion which they may or may not accept. 424. Secondly, consent is to be obtained from persons who had already been
or may in future be proposed for initial appointment as Additional Judges
to give their consent to be appointed in any other High Court. Here also,
there is no element of compulsion. Clause (3) of the Circular, which has
been severely criticised by Mr. Seervai and those who followed him, merely
says that furnishing of the consent or indication of the preference would
not imply any commitment on the part of the Government. While criticising
this part of the circular the counsel for the petitioners have however
completely overlooked the most important circumstances that it was
impossible for the Government to have made any commitment without
ascertaining the views of the State Governments concerned, the CJs as also
the CJI. It could only be after these functionaries would have intimated
their option that the ball could be set rolling and the CJs of the High
Courts where they were proposed to be sent could be sounded for
consultation as also the Government. Furthermore, the CJI would come into
the picture only after the proposal has passed through the High Court and
the State Government concerned and it would be open to the CJI at this
stage either to agree with this proposal or to drop it. 425. We, therefore, fail to see what harm is done to the Judges. On the
other hand, the circular provides an additional facility to the Judges who
may like to go out of the State in accordance with the policy. It appears
that in actual practice quiet a few of the Judges have given their consent. 426. Mr. Seervai vehemently contended that the tone and tenor of the
circular amounts to pressurising the Judges and putting them under coercion
to give their consent at the peril of their being dropped at the initial
stage, The plea of coercion or undue influence is to be pleaded by the
persons on whom undue influence or coercion is used. None of the Judges
have either by any statement or affidavit complained that they had given
their consent under duress. 427. Mr. Seervai submitted that Judges are not used to indulge in
litigation and if they chose to remain silent, the lawyers can take up
their cause and prove that duress and coercion has been practised on them.
We are really amazed that such an argument has been advanced before us
which completely ignores the elementary norms of law. Manifestly before the
highest court, a Judge of a High Court cannot be governed by a law or rule
of evidence different from the one which applies to all citizens. It is now
well settled by several authorities that allegations of coercion or undue
influence must be expressly pleaded by the party who is the victim, and
proved to the satisfaction of the Court. 428. In the instant case, there is neither any plea nor any proof by the
so-called victims. A mere statement in the petition that undue influence of
coercion or duress was practised on the Judges is not sufficient for this
Court to come to the conclusion that the consent of the Judges was obtained
under duress or coercion. Mr. Seervai contended that although there was a
clear indication in the petition, none of the Judges has come forward to
deny the same. This is indeed a most unusual way of proving a case of fraud
or undue influence. Suppose today we accept the argument of Mr. Seervai and
hold that by virtue of the circular the Judges who have given their consent
did so under coercion or duress and tomorrow the very Judges who had given
consent come forward to this Court protesting against our finding and
inform us that they had voluntarily given their consent, what shall be the
answer of this Court. On what principle of law or equity can we decide the
plea of fraud, undue influence or coercion. This argument which is the
sheet-anchor of Mr. Seervai, with due respect to him, cannot be accepted
for a moment. 429. Another comment against the circular was that by the indirect process
of obtaining consent of the Judges concerned, the provisions of Article 222 have been rendered otiose because when the matter goes to the CJI, he would
be faced with a fait accompli and would have no discretion in the matter.
This argument also, in our opinion, is wholly untenable. A person of the
status and calibre of the head of the judiciary in India would not be worth
his salt if he exercises his constitutional power of consultation merely on
the consent of a judge without at all applying his mind. There is no
question of presenting a fait accompli to the CJI because he has to
consider all the shades, aspects and problems of the matter in its entirety
and would also have to consult the Judge concerned and if he feels that a
proper case for transferring the Additional Judge to other High Court has
not been made out, he can refuse to give his consent in which case in all
probability the proposal would die a natural death. We are, therefore,
unable to accede to the contention that the circular tries to interfere
with the supreme authority of the CJI in the matter of consultation under Article 222. 430. Another circumstance that furnishes a complete answer to this problem
is that no question of transfer is involved in the mechanism sought to be
devised by the circular. The Additional Judges have only to be appointed
for the first time in other High Courts and are not to be transferred. Even
if the Judges concerned give their consent and are appointed in an outside
High Court, they would not be transferee Judges and therefore not entitled
to the facilities which are available to transferee Judges like
compensatory allowance, visiting his home State every year, etc. Therefore,
the entire argument stands on a pack of cards. 431. Lastly, the circular issued by the Law Minister is not mandatory but
purely directory. It is open to the Judges to refuse to answer the queries
made from them by the CJs in pursuance of the circular and no adverse
inference can be taken against them, though the law will take its own
course. 432. We are clearly of the opinion that once the Policy is finally
formulated and translated into action, it would enhance the image and
independence of the judicial institutions and verily the judiciary would
see its halcyon days where the judges would be able to function with drive
and dedication in a free and independent atmosphere without the fear of any
local or parochial influence entering into their verdict either consciously
or unconsciously. The grateful nation shall pay its homage to our great
Founding Fathers for giving unto this country a most ideal, flexible, sound
and solid Constitution which has sustained the largest democracy in the
world and has stood the test of times despite severe storms and crises like
an impregnable rock. 433. For these reasons, therefore, we are unable to agree with the counsel
for the petitioners that the circular in any way tarnishes the image of the
Judges or mars the independence of judiciary. This, therefore, disposes of
point No. 3 relating to Policy of General Transfers and the question of
validity of the circular. 434. As regards the question of appointment of Additional Judges under article 224 , the interpretation of Article 217 , the questions of locus and
primacy, the exposition of the concomitants of consultative process, I
generally agree with my brothers Bhagwati, Desai and Venkataramiah, JJ. who
have elaborately dealt with these points. 435. So far as the question of privilege is concerned, the matter was
argued with all its ramifications by counsel for the parties. All my
Brother Judges after hearing the arguments passed an interim Order on
October 16, 1981 directing disclosure of the documents concerning the
secret correspondence between various authorities. I, however, found
myself, with due respect to my Brother Judges, unable to agree with the
view taken by them and passed the following Order on the same date :I am
afraid, I am unable to persuade myself to agree with and express my
respectful dissent form the Order passed by brother Bhagwati, J. and other
Brother Judges directing disclosure of the contents of the documents. I am
clearly of the opinion, after inspecting the documents and considering the
pros and cons, various shades and aspects of the matter with all its
ramifications, that it is not in public interest to disclose the contents
of the documents and I accordingly uphold the plea of privilege taken by
the Union of India. I am aware that my voice is a lone dissent but I am
satisfied that I am in good company with my judicial conscience. Reasons for this Order will be given by me along with the Judgment rendered
in the cases. 436. I now set out to give the detailed reasons which led me to dissent
from the views taken by my learned colleagues. I had mentioned in my
interim Order that mine was a lone voice of dissent but I felt consoled
that I was in good company with my judicial conscience. 437. To begin with, in dealing with the question of privilege, we cannot
view this important branch of law divorced from the socio-economic
conditions of our own country nor can we overlook the special conditions -
political, economic and social - prevailing in the largest democracy of the
world. Any judicial reform however radical or meaningful it may be, must
like a sage counsel be slow and gradual because it is the last refuge for
those who seek justice from the courts of law. One of the most prominent
distinctive features of the laws of our country on the question of
privilege is that the doctrine of privilege is governed not merely by case-
law but by statute law as also by constitutional provisions. These
provisions are contained in Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act, Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and article 74(2) of the
Constitution of India. In deciding the plea of privilege taken by the State
or the party concerned, the provisions of the codified law, which have not
been changed so far, must receive full and effective consideration at our
hands. It is not for the first time that a claim of privilege has been
taken by the Government in this case but the law is now well settled by the
decisions of this Court as also of various High Courts including the Privy
Council. I would not like to burden this judgment, which has already become
unduly long, with the long course of decisions of the High Courts covering
a period of more than a century but would like to confine myself to the
authorities of this Court and some English and American cases on which
reliance has been placed by counsel for the petitioners. 438. Before proceeding to the decisions, it may be necessary to extract the
relevant provisions of the codified law of our country. Article 74(2) which
contains a constitutional mandate by preventing any inquiry into an advice
tendered by the Minister to the President runs thus : 439. Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act may be extracted thus : 440. Section 162(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (See Editor's note on
p. 440) runs thus : 441. A plain reading of these provisions would show that these provisions
are expressed in a negative form which is the clearest possible proof of
the fact that the legislature has incorporated a direct prohibition against
the use of documents mentioned in the aforesaid provisions. 442. Thus, a disclosure can be allowed only in exceptional circumstances
where there is no injury to public interest because public interest is
always paramount to private interest., In fact, these provisions clearly
contain four important attributes of the doctrine of disclosure : 443. A reading of these provisions would also show that the legislature
seems to have laid the greatest possible emphasis on public interest and
confidentiality aspects of these documents. I shall now refer to some of
the leading decisions of this Court which have construed the doctrine of
privilege as contained both in Section 162 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure (See Editor's note on p. 440) and Section 123 of the Evidence
Act, and have laid down principles which should be adopted by courts in
allowing disclosure or upholding the plea of privilege. 444. I would first refer to the case of State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev
Singh which may justly be regarded as the locus classicus regarding the doctrine of
disclosure where Gajendragadkar, J., with whom Sinha, C.J. and Wanchoo, J.
agreed, observed as follows : 445. It may be noticed here that Gajendragadkar, J. was fully alive to the
fact that even as a result of the non-production of the relevant material
or documents the litigant may feel dissatisfied but that will not affect
the basic principle that public good and interest must override
considerations of private good. Here this Court made a distinct departure
from the view taken by the American courts where the concern for the amount
or prejudice caused to the litigant is so paramount as to form the bulwark
and fundamental consideration for directing disclosure and in some cases
even injury to public interest has to yield to the requirements of the
litigant. It is, therefore, clear that this Court has not accepted and, in
my opinion rightly, the extreme view of the American courts. This Court in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case made the following observations : 446. Duncan v. Cammell, Laird & Co., Ltd. [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All
E.R. 587: 111 LJ KB 406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)) was also noticed by this Court
and it was pointed out that it was not necessary to consider the true
nature and effect of the principle as adumbrated in that case, because in
India we are governed by the provisions of Section 162 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure (Editor's note on p. 440) which clearly confer powers on
the court to determine the validity of objections raised in Section 123 of
the Evidence Act. Hence, there would be no occasion to exercise the
inherent power of the Court. In this connection, this Court made the
following observations in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case : 447. These observations come very close to the matters in dispute contained
in the secret correspondence sought to be disclosed because here also they
dealt with the minute of the meeting of the Ministers, viz., the Law
Minister, the CJI and the CJ, Delhi which form the foundation, though not
an actual part of the advice tendered to the President. These documents
were held to be fully privileged. Kapur, J. in a concurrent judgment in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case, however, clarified the position thus : 448. The learned Judge after summing up the entire English law on the
subject observed as follows : 449. Construing the provisions of Section 123 of the Evidence Act, the
learned Judge observed thus : 450. Subba Rao, J. (as he then was) also in a concurring judgment while
maintaining the claim of privilege pointed out that the earlier decisions
of English courts stated that the ground of privilege was sustained only in
regard to the documents pertaining to matters of administration, defence or
foreign relations whose disclosure would be against public interest. In the
instant case, the documents in question undoubtedly relate to matters of
administration of high-powered constitutional functionaries and would,
therefore, fall within the ambit of the Rule of Law laid down by the
English courts. Subba Rao, J. took care to point out that the Evidence Act was enacted when the concept of a welfare State had not arisen but even
after independence the interpretation of the words 'affairs of the State'
cannot be given a separate meaning but have to be construed on the basis
that our Constitution aims at setting up of a welfare State. In this
connection, the learned Judge observed as follows :But when the words are elastic
there is no reason why they should not be so construed as to include such
activities also, provided the condition of pubic injury is also satisfied.
It is, therefore, clear that the words "affairs of State" have acquired a
secondary meaning, namely, those matters of State whose disclosure would
cause injury to the public interest. 451. Stressing that the cardinal test for upholding the plea of privilege
should be that the disclosure of the documents would be injurious to the
public interest the learned Judge observed as follows : 452. The learned Judge further pointed out that there was no conflict
between Sections 123 and 162 of the Evidence Act even on the interpretation
sought to be put on the doctrine of privilege by the learned Judge. In this
connection he observed thus : 453. Finally, while laying down the working rules of guidance regarding
matters of privilege, the learned Judge laid down the following guide-lines
: 454. In Amar Chand Butail v. Union of India 1964 AIR(SC) 1658 : 1965 (1)
SCJ 243) another Constitution Bench adopted the same view which was taken
in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case ). Gajendragadkar, C.J. speaking for the Court observed thus : 455. In this case, a clear distinction was sought to be drawn between the
doctrine of confidentiality and that of expediency. In other words, this
Court decided that where a particular document did not relate to affairs of
the State as such, but if the document was produced it may defeat the
defence taken by the State, that alone would not be sufficient to uphold
the plea of privilege. In the instant case, however, this doctrine does not
apply at all. 456. In State of U.P. v. Raj Narain , another Constitution Bench of this Court observed
thus : (SCC pp. 438 & 442-43, paras 25 & 41)

A witness, though competent generally to give evidence, may in certain
cases claim privilege as a ground for refusing to disclose matter which is
relevant to the issue. Secrets of State, State papers, confidential
official documents and communications between the government and its
officers or between such officers are privileged from production on the
ground of public policy or as being detrimental to the public interest or
service.The several decisions to which reference has already been made
establish that the foundation of the law behind Sections 123 and 162 of the
Evidence Act is the same as in English law. It is that injury to public
interest is the reason for the exclusion from disclosure of documents whose
contents if disclosed would injure public and national interest. Public
interest which demands that evidence be withheld is to be weighed against
the public interest in the administration of justice that courts should
have the fullest possible access to all relevant materials. When public
interest outweighs the latter, the evidence cannot be admitted. The Court
will proprio motu exclude evidence the production of which is contrary to
public interest. It is in public interest that confidentiality shall be
safeguarded. The reason is that such documents become subject to privilege
by reason of their contents. Confidentiality is not a head of privilege. It
is a consideration to bear in mind. It is not that the contents contained
material which it would be damaging to the national interest to divulge but
rather that the documents would be of class which demand protection. 457. The aforesaid observations of Ray, C.J. appear to be on all fours with
the facts and circumstances of the present case because the documents
consisting of the secret correspondence, amply answer the description of
the documents which were being dealt with in that case . 458. Mathew, J. in his concurring judgment expressed a similar view and
after dealing with a large number of English cases observed as follows : 459. The learned Judge, however, was prepared to make exceptions in cases
of documents which related to common routine business which had no relation
to interests of the public. The Judge pointed out that a mere veil of
secrecy put on such documents would not prevent the court from directing
disclosure and observed thus : (SCC p. 454, para 74)

To justify a privilege, secrecy must be indispensable to induce freedom of
official communication or efficiency in the transaction of official
business and it must be further a secrecy which has remained or would have
remained inviolable but for the compulsory disclosure. 460. The documents in question fall squarely within the test laid down by
Mathew, J. 461. The Privy Council in Henry Greer Robinson v. State of South Australia
[1931] A.C. 704 : 1931 AIR(PC) 254 : 135 IC 625) held that the foundation
upon which the protection against disclosure of official record is based is
that the information cannot be disclosed without injury to the public
interest, and Lord Blanesburgh observed as follows : 462. Thus, in the instant case the two-fold tests laid down by Lord
Blanesburgh are fully satisfied because (1) the papers are in the nature of
public official documents of administrative character, and (2) the
disclosure of these documents will lead to serious injury to the public. 463. In Duncan case [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All E.R. 587: 111 LJ KB 406
: 166 LT 366 (HL)) the following observations were made :" ... The rule
that the interest of the State must not be put in jeopardy by producing
documents which would injure it is a principle to be observed in
administering justice, quite unconnected with the interests or claims of
the particular parties in litigation, and, indeed, is a rule upon which the
Judge should, if necessary, insist, even though no objection is taken at
all. The minister in deciding whether it is his duty to object, should bear
these considerations in mind, for he ought not, to take the responsibility
of withholding production except in cases where the public interest would
otherwise be damnified, for example, where disclosure would be injurious to
national defence, or to good diplomatic relations or where the practice of
keeping a class of documents secret is necessary for the proper functioning
of the public service. When these conditions are satisfied and the minister feels it is his duty
to deny access to material which would otherwise be available, there is no
question but that the public interest must be preferred to any private
consideration. 464. This case goes even to the extent that if the Minister does not claim
the plea of privilege, it is for the Court itself not to allow disclosure
where the disclosure would be injurious to national defence, good
diplomatic relations or proper functioning of the public service. This
decision, therefore, is fully in accordance with the principles enunciated
by this Court as referred to above. 465. It was contended that the validity of Duncan case has been
considerably weakened by a later English decision in Conway v. Rimmer and
therefore no reliance should be placed on Duncan case [1942] A.C. 624 : 466. Lord Reid reiterated the same principle which has been enunciated by
the English courts and followed by this Court and observed thus : 467. The twin tests which flow from these observations fully apply to the
facts and circumstances of this case. We are, therefore, unable to regard
Conway case [1968] A.C. 910 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 998 : [1968] 1 All E.R.
874(HL)) as having overruled the ratio in Duncan case. [1942] A.C. 624 : 468. Thus, Conway case [1968] A.C. 910 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 998 : [1968] 1 All
E.R. 874(HL)) does not fully support the contention of Mr. Sorabjee. So far
as this Court is concerned, it has not gone to the extreme limit to which
Conway case [1968] A.C. 910 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 998 : [1968] 1 All E.R.
874(HL)) goes and, therefore, I would like to prefer the decisions of this
Court to that of Conway case [1968] A.C. 910 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 998 : [1968]
1 All E.R. 874(HL)) where the law appears to have been somewhat overstated
by Lord Reid. 469. Reliance was also placed by Mr. Sorabjee in the case of Rogers v. Home
Secretary [1973] A.C. 388 : [1972] 2 All E.R. 1057(HL) (Cited in All ER as Rogers v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, Gaming Board for
Great Britain v. Rogers) and particularly on the observations of Lord
Pearson which may be extracted thus : 470. Another passage which explains the ratio in clear terms may be
extracted thus : 471. Ultimately while taking a broad and practical view on the question,
Lord Salmon observed thus : 472. Taking the facts of this case at their face value, I do not see how it
can help the argument of Mr. Sorabjee on the question of disclosure of the
documents. In fact, this case also does not depart from the previous views
taken by the House of Lords and Privy Council regarding the importance of
public interest or injury to public interest in respect of the documents
sought to be disclosed. This case, however, takes a step forward by
insisting that the principles enunciated in Conway case [1968] A.C. 910 : 473. Strong reliance was placed by Mr. Sorabjee in Sankey v. Whitlam (1978
21 Australian LR 505 : 53 ALJR 11) where Stephen, J. relying on Rogers case
[1973] A.C. 388 : [1972] 2 All E.R. 1057(HL) (Cited in All ER as Rogers v.
Secretary of State for the Home Department, Gaming Board for Great Britain
v. Rogers) and other cases dwelt on the doctrine of balancing process and
observed as follows :If in the balancing process the circumstances of a
particular case can affect the relative weight to be given to each of the
respective public interests when placed in the scales, the outcome in the
present case seems to me to be clear. The affidavits sworn by members of the present ministry and by senior
public servants make it clear that all the claims to Crown privilege are
class claims, not contents claim; it is not suggested that to disclose the
contents of any of the documents, the Loan Council documents apart, will of
itself result in detriment to the public interest flowing directly from the
nature of what is disclosed. 474. A perusal of the facts of this case would show that in the said case
the documents were really not of a secret nature so as to fall within the
contours of the claim of privilege. There was also a finding given by the
court that the documents would not result in any detriment to public
interest flowing directly from the nature of what is disclosed. Contrary
appears to be the case so far as the documents, which are the subject-
matter of disclosure, in the instant petitions are concerned. These
observations do not help the petitioners because they are based on a clear
finding of fact that there was nothing remarkable about the documents in
order to tilt the scale in favour of non-disclosure. It was also held that
the affidavits did not clarify whether the claim of privilege was class-
claim and not contents-claim. As already indicated, the documents in this
case pertain to high official secrets revealed in the documents of high
constitutional functionaries regarding matters which if disclosed would
doubtless cause serious injury to the public and has in fact caused the
most colossal damage not only to the Government but also to the judicial
institution itself. 475. In Sankey case (1978 21 Australian LR 505 : 53 ALJR 11) the following
observations were made : 476. Gibbs, A.C.J. upholding the claim of privilege observed as follows : 477. In Marconi's Wireless Telegraph Co. Ltd. v. Commonwealth (1913 16
Commonwealth LR 178), Isaacs, J. observed as follows : 478. In this case also, the Court merely held that where an instrument is
judged by the court to be of an official character the Minister's plea of
public prejudice must be upheld. Even so, the facts of this case are
clearly distinguishable from the facts of the present case. 479. In Alfred Crompton Amusement Machines Ltd. v. Customs & Excise
Commissioners [1974] A.C. 405 : [1973] 2 All E.R. 1169, 1184 (HL)), Lord
Cross of Chelsea while dwelling on the nature of confidentiality which is
doubtless one of the aspects of privilege, observed as follows : (All ER p.
1184)

'Confidentiality' is not a separate head of privilege, but may be a very
material consideration to bear in mind when privilege is claimed on the
ground of public interest. What the court has to do is to weigh on the one
hand the considerations which suggest that it is in the public interest
that the documents in question should be disclosed and on the other hand
those which suggest that it is in the public interest that they should not
be disclosed and to balance one against the other. 480. Here also it was held that while dealing with the question of
confidentiality the most material consideration would be whether privilege
was claimed on the ground of public interest and the duty of the court is
to balance the considerations of public interest against the injury which
may be caused by disclosure and if it finds that the injury to public
interest would be minimal, disclosure can be allowed. This case also does
not in any way seem to be of any assistance to the petitioners. 481. Mr. Sorabjee strongly relied on the famous American case of United
States v. Richard M. Nixon (41 L Ed 2d 1309) and particularly on the
following observations made by the court : 482. These observations must be read in the light of the peculiar
provisions of the American Constitution contained in Articles II and III.
The doctrine of absolute candour so as to prevail over the unqualified
privilege of immunity from judicial process is absolutely foreign to the
nature and character of the provisions enshrined in Article 74(2) of our
Constitution and Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act. Therefore, these
observations cannot be called into aid by our courts in dealing with the
question of privilege. I have already pointed out that this Court has
clearly held that we ought not to be guided by American decisions because
in framing our Constitution, we have chosen to select the English pattern
even though the American Constitution was available and was in fact
considered by the Founding Fathers of our Constitution. 483. Thus, the United States' decision referred to above must be understood
in the light of its own facts and the special provisions of the American
Constitutional law under which there is a complete separation of powers
unlike our Constitution where to some extent there is separation of power
but by and large all the powers of the appointment of the higher judiciary
and their transfer vest in the executive, viz., the President of India. In
these circumstances, therefore, the doctrine of 'candour' or
'confidentiality' propounded by the American Supreme Court cannot be
blindly applied to the provisions of the Indian Constitution which has
features of its own substantially different from those of the American
Constitution as indicated while dealing with interpretation of Article 222. The extreme limit to which the U.S. Supreme Court appears to have gone is
directly opposed to the scope of Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act
as interpreted by this Court in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case ( State of Punjab
v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh , . 484. This Court in Shyamlal Mohanlal case (( Shyamlal Mohanlal v. State of
Gujarat , has clearly held that the plea of privilege cannot be determined on the
principles enunciated by the American Judges which could not apply to our
country. This is particularly so, when the habits and tempers of our
people, their outlook and vision, and their concepts and way of life are
quite different from the ways of life of the American people. 485. In Shyamlal Mohanlal v. State of Gujarat ((Shyamlal Mohanlal v. State
of Gujarat, this Court observed thus : 486. On a parity of reasoning it can be safely concluded that the statutory
provisions of Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act as also those of Article 74(2) of the Constitution have fully safeguarded high Government
and official secrets and disclosure is prohibited in public interest unless
the Court is fully satisfied that disclosure will not harm the public
interest. Thus, this Court has clearly pointed out that on this aspect of
the matter, the rule of protection against self-incrimination as prevalent
in the United Kingdom or U.S.A. has never been accepted in India. This is
yet an additional reason why I am not in a position to rely on the American
doctrine of candour or the recent decisions of the English courts referred
to above. 487. Cross on Evidence (6th Edition) clearly states that documents may be
withheld in public interest on account of their contents. In this
connection the author observes as follows : 488. Wigmore on Evidence (3rd edition, Vol. VIII) at page 801 summarises
the conclusions regarding State secrets and official documents derived from
American decisions on the question of privilege thus : and then a ruling by the Court, this ruling to be appealable and
determinative of the privilege. 489. The view of the author, therefore, fully reflects the summary of the
decisions given by the American Courts on the question of privilege. It may
be noticed that clause (2) particularly recognises that where official
records are declared to be confidential by a statute, the statute should be
liberally construed to have an implied exception for disclosure when needed
in a court of justice. The principle contained in clause (2) of the
aforesaid extracts is clearly enshrined in Sections 123 and 124 of the
Evidence Act without the exceptions which have been carved out by American
decisions. On the other hand, the position under the Evidence Act is that
official or confidential records or documents cannot be disclosed unless
the court comes to the conclusion that the disclosure will not cause any
injury to public interest. The American doctrine of candour, as already
stated, cannot be applied to the conditions in India in view of our own
statute laws containing express provisions contrary to the principles
enunciated by the American courts. 490. David Foulkes in his book Introduction to Administrative Law has
observed thus : 491. It appears that whereas the English, Australian and our own courts
have consistently and without any exception categorically held that
military or defence secrets are absolutely privileged and the contents of
the documents containing these secrets can never be divulged under any
circumstances, the American courts seem to have taken a contrary view and
while leaning on the side of non-disclosure even in the case of military
secrets they have not excluded the possibility of allowing disclosure under
certain circumstances. This is clearly spelt out by the decision of U.S.
Supreme Court in United States v. Reynolds 345 US 1 1952). The American
courts do not seem to follow the three-fold tests laid down by our courts
as also the English courts in judging the plea of privilege, viz.,

(1) documents containing military or defence secrets,

(2) the direct conflict between public interest and individual interest,
and

(3) the doctrine of expediency regarding affairs of the State and injury to
public interest or national interest. 492. In fact, the correct legal position seems to be that whereas mere
expediency may not be a ground to claim privilege so as to avoid production
of a document which, if produced, may defeat and defence, where the
documents consist of highly confidential matters in respect of
constitutional functionaries like Chief Justices or High Court Judges, the
Law Minister, the President of India, C.B.I., I.B. and such other
Departments are concerned, the question of public injury, which may be
caused, becomes a decisive factor in upholding the plea of privilege. The
court is, however, not powerless to hold its own enquiry in order to test
the bona fide of the plea of privilege. One form of such an enquiry may be,
as pointed out in the cases referred to above, the inspection of the
documents themselves by the court before disclosure. If after inspection
the court finds that the plea of privilege is well grounded and its
disclosure will lead to great public injury, it will be justified in
upholding the plea of privilege. 493. It is true that recent English decisions have made a slight departure
from the consistent and somewhat conservative view taken by them in the
earlier cases, but despite this change, the central theme and the contours
and parameters within which the plea of privilege can be allowed have not
been totally discarded. 494. As far back as 1916 the Court of Appeal in England while dealing with
the question of privilege clearly held that the protection of documents
from discovery was not only based on the broad principles of State Policy
or public convenience but extended to public confidential documents of a
political or administrative character. In this connection in Asiatic
Petroleum Co. Ltd. v. Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd. [1916] 1 K.B. 822, 829 : 495. In taking this view the court had relied on an earlier decision in
Hennessy v. Wright (1888 21 QBD 509 : 57 LJKB 530 : 59 LT 323 (DC)). 496. In Corporation of the City of Glasgow v. Central Land Board (1956 SC
(HL) 1, 18 : 1956 SLT 41) Lord Radcliffe observed thus : 497. This decision clearly spells out the proposition that though normally
the claim of privilege made by the Minister should be accepted by the Court
but at the same time some aspects of public interest may be considered
where withholding disclosure of a document may defeat the very claim of the
plaintiff. Lord Radcliffe has, however, made it very clear that documents
containing matters of high politics, diplomatic relations or such secrets
would undoubtedly be privileged. Thus, so far as this case is concerned it
fully supports the position taken by the Union of India in claiming the
plea of privilege in respect of the documents concerned. 498. In D. v. National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
[1978] A.C. 171 : [1977] 2 W.L.R. 207 (HL)) it was held that the
administration of justice was a fundamental public interest though not an
exclusive public interest. 499. Although the facts of this case are quite different from the facts of
the present case, yet the case cited above undoubtedly recognised
administration of justice as a fundamental public interest. Once this is
so, then by the force of Section 123 of the Evidence Act, disclosure cannot
be permitted and the Government would be entitled to take the plea of
privilege. 500. In none of these cases, the documents in respect of which privilege
was claimed related to top secrets of high officers involving Government
decisions on important policy matters relating to higher judiciary as in
the present case. In these circumstances, these cases are not of much
assistance to the petitioners. 501. In Science Research Council v. Nasse [1980] A.C. 1028 : [1979] 3 All
E.R. 673(HL)) a complaint was filed with the Industrial Tribunal alleging
discrimination on grounds of sex and marital status. At the hearing a
prayer was made for the petitioners for inspection and discovery of certain
documents which were in the nature of confidential assessments of each
employee. The Tribunal ordered the disclosure and the Appellate Tribunal
also confirmed it. One appeal to the Court of Appeal, a fresh affidavit was
filed showing the nature of the confidentiality of the documents. The
appellate Court held that if the documents were disclosed it would amount
to breach of faith and could lead to industrial trouble thus causing injury
to public interest. The appellate Court, however, set aside the order
allowing the plea of privilege and held that the documents were not
entitled to privilege. The decision of the appellate Court was confirmed by
the House of Lords in appeal where it was held that no principle of public
interest immunity protected such confidential documents and they were not
immune from disclosure on the basis of confidentiality alone. Great
reliance has been placed by the petitioners on this aspect of the matter
decided by the House of Lords. It is true that the plea of privilege on the
ground of confidentiality was overruled but the decision given by the House
of Lords cannot be divorced from the facts before them. What was sought to
be disclosed were merely confidential reports of the employees concerned.
No great constitutional or legal importance was attached to the documents
as such or for that matter the documents as we have in the instant case. In
this connection, Lord Edmund-Davies observed as follows : [1980] A.C. 1028
: [1979] 3 All E.R. 673(HL))Whether a tribunal or court should decide that
they themselves should inspect must always depend on the particular facts
and issues, though it is difficult to see how they can ever properly
conclude that discovery is 'necessary' without such inspection. But where a
court inspection is decided upon, there can be no hard-and-fast rule as to
when it should take place. The Court of Appeal rightly held that discovery should not have been
ordered in either of these two cases without the respective industrial
tribunals or the appellate courts first inspecting the withheld documents.
That unfortunately not having been done, it follows that both appeals
should be dismissed. Lord Fraser spoke in the same strain and held that confidentiality was not
a separate head of privilege but may be a very material consideration to
bear in mind when the question of privilege is raised. 502. Thus, what the House of Lords held was that the element of
confidentiality in the documents was not so acute or sensitive as to create
any public interest. On the other hand, public interest itself in the
circumstances required disclosure. This case, therefore is of no assistance
to the petitioners because the facts of the present case are essentially
different from the facts of the case. In the instant case, after inspection
of the documents it cannot be said that only private interests were
involved and that there was no injury to public interest. The disclosure of
the confidential notes and correspondence between three very high
constitutional functionaries, viz., CJI, Law Minister and the CJ, Delhi
High Court containing matters on which no public debate could be allowed
were undoubtedly matters of great public interest. On the other hand, the
interest of Justice Kumar was a purely individual interest which must yield
to public interest. On the face, therefore, of the ratio of this case, the
plea of privilege would have to be upheld straight away. 503. In Burmah Oil Co. Ltd. v. Bank of England [1980] A.C. 1090 : [1979] 3
All E.R. 700 : [1979] 3 W.L.R. 722 (HL)) the following observations were
made by Lord Wilberforce : 504. It was thus held that the documents should be produced for inspection
by the House of Lords. As the said case was not one where without
inspection of documents it was possible to decide whether the balance of
interest lay for or against disclosure, after inspecting the documents the
majority of the Lords arrived at a finding of fact that none of the
documents contained such confidential matters as could form the basis of a
plea of privilege. Lord Wilberforce, however, dissented and held that the
Minister's certificate would amount to public interest immunity, and the
documents could not be inspected. 505. This case also has absolutely no application to the facts of the
present case because this Court after hearing the arguments of the parties
on the issue of privilege by an interim order held that the court was
entitled to inspect the documents and after inspecting the documents I am
clearly of the view that having regard to the magnitude of the matter, the
heavy stakes involved, the disclosure would amount to denigration of not
only the judiciary but also the other constitutional functionaries who have
figured in the case, resulting in the gravest possible injury to public
interest and to the running of public services. 506. In the aforesaid case, Lord Edmund Davies classed the documents into
three categories, which may be extracted thus : 507. After mentioning the categories, Lord Davies observed as follows : 508. It is true that the majority opinion was that the plea of privilege
should be overruled but although the categories, mentioned above, consisted
of confidential documents they all related to purely commercial
transactions and did not contain any constitutional colour or any element
of affairs of the State. The same cannot be said so far as the documents in
the instant case are concerned. These documents are not only of great
public importance but are directly concerned with the affairs of the State
in that the Council of Ministers while giving advice to the President for
not extending the term of Justice Kumar had expressly relied on these
documents though it has not been shown to our satisfaction that these
documents form part of the Memorandum of Advice tendered to the President.
In such a case, the documents would have been beyond any enquiry under Article 74(2) , apart from the question of the application of Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act. 509. Another case relied upon by the petitioners was Neilson v. Laugharne
[1981] 1 All E.R. 829 (CA)). Lord Denning approached the question with his
usual ingenuity and observed as follows : 510. Thus, although this case makes a slight departure from the view taken
by the earlier cases it has not favoured the extreme position which seems
to have been taken by the petitioners on the plea of privilege and which
has been clearly negatived by the decisions of our own court. 511. Reliance was also placed by Mr. Sorabjee on a book Public Law 1980 by
I.G. Eagles where at page 275 the author makes the following observations
regarding Cabinet papers : 512. With due respect to the learned author, the principles have been
rather broadly stated and do not fit in either with the democratic set-up
of our country or with the spirit of our Constitution. For instance,
Cabinet decisions, however wrong or proper they may be, are, undoubtedly
secret documents and if any such document forms part of the advice tendered
to the President then there is a clear constitutional mandate by virtue of Article 74(2) preventing the court from embarking on any inquiry into these
documents. Thus, the question of disclosure cannot arise in such cases and
the observations of the author become wholly inapplicable to the situation
contemplated by our Constitution and the statutory laws. In these
circumstances, therefore, I cannot accept the view of the author, extracted
above. 513. It would thus be seen that even from English decisions, it is clear
that the court itself should prevent disclosure of documents whose
production will be contrary to public interest even if no claim is made by
a Minister or other high official on his behalf. This was held, as we have
pointed out, in Sankey case (Sankey v. Whitlam, 1978 21 Australian LR 505 : Thus both the leading cases of England and Australia have not accepted the
liberal doctrine of candour expounded by the American authors. In the
instant case, it is manifest that the Union of India has not taken the plea
of privilege merely to hide the truth or to prevent the court from knowing
the truth. In fact, both the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General had
frankly conceded and voluntarily produced the documents before the court
for inspection in order to judge whether the disclosure of the documents
would injure the public interest. This shows the bona fide of the stand
taken by the Union of India. As, however, my Brother Judges after
inspection decided to disclose the documents, the Union of India gracefully
accepted the decision. I might mention that this is not one of those cases
where a litigant is trying to conceal a document which may destroy his case
or scuttle his defence. This seems to be the cardinal principle behind the
doctrine of candour adumbrated by the American decisions. 514. I have summarised the opinions of the English, American and Australian
courts on the question of privilege. While applying the law to Indian
conditions which are essentially different from those prevailing in
England, America or Australia, two important factors have to be borne in
mind -(1) that so far as our country is concerned we have chosen to base it
on the British pattern with some additions, alterations or innovations to
suit our own local, social and economic conditions because our ways of
living and thinking, our attitude towards life and its various phases and
above all, the mode of governance of the country are very different from
and have nothing in common with the United States of America. Whereas in
America there is mass education, illiteracy is the common feature of the
masses of our country. We are no doubt making fast progress but it will
require quite some time before we become as advanced as the United States
of America. Even though the recently decided English cases may have taken a much
broader and a more liberal view, the Founding Fathers of our Constitution
had before them the old view and this Court has consistently followed the
English decisions so far as the question of privilege is concerned. (2) While neither in England, Australia nor America there is any codified
law laying down the principles and the grounds on which privilege can be
claimed, in India we have Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act which
govern the conditions under which a plea of privilege can be allowed or
disallowed. Another law which affects the question of privilege is Section 162 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure (See Editor's note on p. 440) which has also to
be read in conjunction with Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act. 515. Apart from these two sections there is also a constitutional provision
which is enshrined in Article 74(2) under which no enquiry can be made by
any court in respect of the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers to
the President. In the instant case, the order impugned has been passed by
the President on the advice of the Council of Ministers. Although it has
been alleged in the note of arguments that the contents of the documents
were part of the material on the basis of which advice was given to the
President, it has not been shown to our satisfaction that the
correspondence contained in the documents formed part of the actual
Memorandum of Advice sent to the President. If such evidence was produced
before us then the matter would have been put beyond controversy because
apart from the question of privilege arising under Sections 123 and 124 of
the Evidence Act, the enquiry or disclosure would be barred by the
constitutional mandate contained in Article 74(2). 516. In view of these circumstances, therefore, before importing the
doctrines or the liberal trend of modern cases across the seven seas, we
cannot overlook the mandatory provisions of the Evidence Act and the Code
of Criminal Procedure (See Editor's note on p. 440). Furthermore, while in
England and America the democratic system of Government has been existing
for more than two or three centuries, our democracy is only three decades
old, which is a very small period in the life of a nation and we have yet
to develop our law by a process of adaptation and accommodation, rejection
or modification or by a trial-and-error method. This Court while construing Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act was fully alive to the conditions
prevailing in our country and the manner in which the public services were
run and the Central Government or the State Governments took important
decisions. Any revolutionary decisions so as to expose high confidential
matters to public gaze by following a policy of liberal disclosure of
documents ignoring the provisions of Sections 123 and 124 of the Act would
not only be detrimental to our progress but may cause serious obstruction
in the practical running of day-to-day affairs of the Government or for
that matter the governance of the country itself. 517. For these reasons, therefore, while I have referred to the foreign
decisions I would like to confine my decision mainly to those English cases
which apply to our present day conditions and to the principles laid down
by our own courts in their leading judgments which have been discussed and
analysed in this judgment. While I am prepared to take a liberal view
having regard to the fact that we have by our recent decisions widened the
horizon of Article 21 so far as the inspection of the documents by the
court is concerned, but if after inspection of the documents the Court is
satisfied that the tests laid down by this Court in several cases are not
fulfilled then the plea of privilege must be upheld. 518. Thus, after a full and complete analysis of the various factors
indicated above, it is established beyond doubt that so far as this Court
is concerned it has chosen to follow the principle of English law with
suitable adjustments and modifications in determining the plea of privilege
under Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act, This is, as it should be,
because as pointed by Kapoor, J. in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case ( State of
Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh , that since the Evidence Act was enacted during the
British rule and we have generally adopted the English system in procedural
matters, we should not depart from the basic and essential principles of
interpretation as laid down by the English law. I, however, respectfully
agree with Subba Rao, J. that while construing Sections 123 and 124 and
applying the principles of English law, we must do so against the
background of the Socialist State and the egalitarian society which is the
goal of our Constitution instead of confining the contours of privilege in
a strait-jacket; in suitable cases a liberal view can be taken by this
Court without violating the express language or the general spirit of the
statutory provisions of the Evidence Act . I might mention that so far no
case has ever held that Sections 123 and 124 are unconstitutional and this
could not be so because these provisions deal with matters relating to
great public interest. Even in the course of arguments before us it has not
been suggested that these sections are violative of any of the articles of
the Constitution. Mr. Garg appearing in Tarkunde's case had hinted that the
aforesaid sections should be interpreted in the light of Article 21 but he
has not categorically contended that the aforesaid sections are violative
of any of the provisions of the Constitution. 519. Another important circumstance that has to be taken into consideration
is that even after more than three decades of our independence, the
Parliament despite so many socio-economic changes all over the world has
not thought it advisable or necessary to amend the provisions of the Evidence Act so as to liberalise or widen the scope or the policy of
privilege contained in Sections 123 and 124 of the Act by incorporating the
principles laid down in the recent English or American cases. This
intrinsic circumstances demonstrably proves that the view taken by the
Supreme Court over the years is correct and does not call for any amendment
of the Evidence Act by the Parliament. On a parity of reasoning, the
irresistible conclusion that follows and the natural presumption that
arises is that our legislature did not intend to make a departure from the
earlier English decisions either by incorporating or adapting the
principles of American law on the subject. I might even go to the extent of
saying that it will not be unreasonable to presume that the Founding
Fathers of the Constitution and the Parliament thereafter having been fully
aware of the view taken by the American courts in recent decisions has
affirmatively chosen to reject the liberal and somewhat dangerous doctrine
of candour. For instance, as discussed above one of the American cases has
gone to the extent of holding that even military secrets can be disclosed
in suitable cases. Our courts have clearly held that so far as Defence
secrets or good neighbourly relations with other countries are concerned,
there is complete bar to the disclosure of these matters or documents
relating to these matters which are clearly covered by Section 123 or Section 124 of the Act. 520. There is another fact of life which, however unpleasant, cannot be
denied and this is that precious little are our masses or litigants
concerned with which Judge is appointed or not appointed or which one is
continued or not continued. The high sounding concept of independence of
judiciary or primacy of one or the other of the constitutional
functionaries or the mode of effective consultation are matters of academic
interest in which our masses are least interested. On the other hand, they
are mainly concerned with dangerous forces at work and evils reflected in
economic pressures, inflationary tendencies, gruelling poverty,
emancipation of women, maintenance of law and order, food and clothing,
bread and butter, and above all the serious problem of unemployment. 521. It is only a sizeable section of the intellectuals consisting of the
Press and the lawyers who have made a prestigious issue of the independence
of judiciary. I can fully understand that lawyers or other persons directly
connected with the administration of justice may have a grievance however
ill-founded that improper selection of Judges or interference with the
appointment of Judges strictly according to constitutional provisions may
mar the institution of judiciary and therefore they may to some extent be
justified in vindicating their rights. But at the same time, however biting
or bitter, distasteful and diabolical it may seem to be, the fact remains
that the masses in general are not at all concerned with these legal
niceties and so far as administration of justice is concerned they merely
want that their cases should be decided quickly by Judges who generate
confidence. They are least concerned with individual Judges or the mode or
manner of their appointment. Carried away by the stormy and emotional
debate of the lawyers appearing for the petitioners and their egotistic
slogan that independence of judiciary was in danger, this Court ought not
to have broken the age-old solid and sacrosanct tradition of upholding the
plea of privilege which caused serious injury to the public interest. But
lo and behold ! the result of the disclosure has revealed widespread
dangers and ills, for anybody in the street without appreciating the
niceties of law looks upon the judiciary as suspect. Did we disclose the
documents to produce such disastrous results ? It is difficult to construct
an edifice but very easy to demolish the same. But, alas ! we have
demolished it and caused irreparable damage for which our future generation
will never forgive us. Whether I was right in upholding the plea of
privilege, or my Brothers in ordering disclosure of documents, only time
will tell. 522. Coming to the practical side of the dangerous consequences of
disclosure which might highlight my view that after inspecting the
documents, it was not in public interest to order disclosure of the
contents of the documents, the following considerations have swayed with me
: I cannot help commending the conduct of Justice Ismail who actually
resigned and chose to quit his office instead of pursuing the matter
further in the larger interest of the purity of administration of justice.
The life of a judge is that of a hermit and he must inculcate a spirit of
self-sacrifice and should take his profession in this holy spirit. (e) The subsequent events following the disclosure of the documents which
have been fully published by the Press and other media clearly show that
there has been a serious character assassination of a high constitutional
functionary for merely expressing his opinion in a very frank and honest
manner and that too behind his back. The contents of confidential notes and
letters have been exploited for their personal ends by interested parties.
Thus, the apprehension and danger which I had predicted from disclosure has
come to be true and henceforward there would be hardly any head of a
Department who can function properly or effectively with the sword of
Damocles hanging over his head. No high authority would now venture to
record adverse annual confidential reports on the conduct of his
subordinates or express his honest opinion howsoever unsatisfactory the
conduct of the subordinate may be.There is yet another distressing feature
of the disclosure of documents. It would appear that the CJ, Delhi High
Court was castigated as being dishonest and prejudiced against Justice
Kumar for having refused to recommend his extension or reappointment. The
same is being openly said in the Press regarding the CJI in respect of his
adverse comments on Mufti Bahauddin, acting Chief Justice of J & K High
Court. While CJ, Delhi has given cogent reasons for not recommending the
reappointment of Justice Kumar in his proposal to the Law Minister (a copy
of which was sent to the CJI) which was followed by a full and frank
discussion between CJ, Delhi and CJI, there is nothing to show that the
materials or the data on which the CJI formed his opinion against Justice
Mufti Bahauddin and as he says in his proposal found some substance in the
complaints yet all this was done when Justice Bahauddin was neither a party
to the present proceedings, nor was he ever heard in his defence and yet he
has been publicly condemned, thanks to the disclosure. However, in the
instant case, we are not at all concerned with the case of Justice Mufti
Bahauddin but I have given this instance to show that if disclosure of
confidential documents are liberally allowed by throwing public interest to
the winds, what dangerous consequences can follow which may injure innocent
constitutional functionaries. In the case of Justice Kumar, CJ, Delhi High
Court and the CJI have not revealed the source of their information and in
my opinion rightly because anyone who gave them the information must have
done so in confidence and according to the correspondence, it appears that
senior colleagues of the CJ, Delhi High Court and eminent lawyers had
supplied the information to him and similar authorities had given some
counter information to the CJI. 523. Thus, such an awkward and embarrassing situation is bound to develop
if disclosures are liberally made as a result of which serious injury is
caused to public interest. The most unfortunate part of the disclosure in
this case is that persons who are not before the court have been involved
in serious legal and political controversy which has, in my opinion, caused
serious damage to the high judicial institutions of the country, posing a
very serious problem to the Central Government and the public services. 524. The Solicitor-General made a feeble attempt to argue before me that
since I have dissented from the majority view and upheld the plea of
privilege I should not deal with the contents of the documents in my
judgment. This argument, which appears to me to be somewhat extraordinary,
cannot be accepted because the decision of the majority amounts to the law
laid down for the whole country under Article 141 of the Constitution and
is as such binding on me as on others. As a result of the majority
decision, the documents disclosed form part of the record and if I shut my
eyes to these documents merely because I have dissented from the majority
view, it would perilously amount to being subversive of judicial
discipline. I have, however, carefully waded through the documents and I do
not think that much can be made of the contents and recitals in the
documents. These are my reasons for upholding the plea of privilege taken
by the Union in the cases of Mr. Kumar and Mr. K. B. N. Singh. 525. A careful perusal of the letters written by the CJ, Delhi High Court
to the Government as also to the CJI would reveal that the stand taken by
CJ, Delhi has been consistent throughout. He has honestly and frankly taken
the stand that in his view as the reputation of Justice Kumar was not
above-board and his performance was rather slow, he was not prepared to
recommend his reappointment after the expiry of his term. He has disclosed
in his letter the grounds for coming to this conclusion which were derived
partly from knowledge which he got from senior lawyers or senior colleagues
and partly from certain facts. After sending the letter he had a full
discussion with the CJI on all the points which are contained in the first
letter which the CJ, Delhi wrote to the Law Minister. The CJI, however,
took the stand that on his inquiry made from the lawyers and Judges of the
High Court, he had no reason to doubt the integrity or honesty of Justice
Kumar. It is also admitted that the CJ, Delhi had no animus against Justice
Kumar and there was no reason why he should have expressed his opinion
refusing to recommend his reappointment, without any sufficient reasons or
due to enmity. The only argument advanced against the CJ, Delhi was that he
had sent a letter to the Law Minister in which he had disclosed some data
and details, and had requested him to keep them secret, and had also prayed
that the letter may not be shown to anybody else as it was meant for him.
The argument was that there is no evidence to show that the materials
disclosed to the Law Minister were shown to the CJI. It is, however, not
disputed that the CJ, Delhi wrote such a letter to the Law Minister after
his discussion with the CJI and the possibility that he may have discussed
all matters including the materials put in writing to the Law Minister with
the CJI cannot be excluded. 526. At any rate, without going into further details as several
constitutional functionaries were involved, two facts emerge : In my opinion both of them did not disclose the names because the Judges or
the lawyers concerned must have given the information in confidence and
they would have been seriously embarrassed if their names were disclosed. (2) These views were put before the Central Government and it was open to
the President to accept one view or the other. The President chose to
accept the view taken by the CJ, Delhi more particularly because he was in
a position to have firsthand information both regarding the reputation and
working of the Additional Judge. 527. In these circumstances, it cannot be said that the action of the
President was tainted by malice or that there was no effective
consultation. This aspect of the matter has been elaborately dealt with by
my Brothers Bhagwati, Desai and Venkataramiah, JJ. with whom I am in
general agreement. 528. I might just state that even if the documents were not disclosed, the
conclusion would have been the same because in the affidavits it was not
disputed that the two CJs had taken a contrary view regarding the doubtful
reputation of Justice Kumar, nor was it suggested that CJ, Delhi had any
ill will or animus against Justice Kumar. The disclosure of the documents,
however, unfortunately resulted in grave and serious consequences of far-
reaching effect on the future of not only the judicial institutions but
also almost all the Government departments. 529. While agreeing with brothers Bhagwati, Desai and Venkataramiah, JJ.
regarding the interpretation of Article 224 , I would, however, express my
short opinion on the subject. Although it is true that by fixing the
strength of permanent and Additional Judges of each High Court, the Central
Government appears to have created two parallel lines of recruitment so
that the appointment of an Additional Judge was a sort of training ground
for being appointed as a Permanent Judge whenever a permanent vacancy
arose. It has already been pointed out by Brother Venkataramiah, J. that
this procedure was against the very spirit and tenor of Article 224 which
is extracted thus : (2) When any Judge of a High Court other than the Chief Justice is by
reason of absence or for any other reason unable to perform the duties of
his office or is appointed to act temporarily as Chief Justice, the
President may appoint a duly qualified person to act a Judge of that Court
until the permanent Judge has resumed his duties. (3) No person appointed as an Additional or acting Judge of a High Court
shall hold office after attaining the age of sixty-two years. 530. If properly read, this Article envisages certain conditions precedent
before an appointment under Article 224 can be made and also prescribes the
nature and the term of the Judge appointed. In the first place, it requires
that an Additional Judge can be appointed only if -(1) there is any
temporary increase in the business of a High Court, for instance, where by
virtue of some new temporary law passed, a spate of litigation crops up but
that ends with the duration of the Act or with the completion of the
temporary reforms, etc., contemplated by the statute. Such an appointment
is a kind of an emergency appointment which is to last until the temporary
increase or arrears are disposed of,

(2) where by reasons of heavy arrears of work it becomes necessary to
appoint an Additional Judge, the appointment is made under Article 224. 531. The Article, therefore, contemplates only a tenure appointment to meet
a particular contingency and is not meant to be a permanent feature so as
to form a training base for recruiting judges from the training base to the
permanent cadre. This point need not detain us any further in view of the
statement made by Mr. Mridul on behalf of the Law Minister that it has now
been decided as a matter of policy by the Government not to appoint
Additional Judges for a period of less than one year in special cases and
two years normally. If this is done in further, then the spirit of the
Constitution would be amply fulfilled and the controversy would be set at
rest. 532. A more important feature is that the nature of the appointment under article 224 is a pure tenure appointment for a fixed period and once the
period expires, there is no question of extension of that period or
reappointment. In other words, once the time for which a Judge has been
appointed expires, the appointment of the Judge ceases to exist. That being
so, whenever a judge is sought to be appointed afresh, the constitutional
functionary will have to go back to Article 217 even if a judge is to be
appointed under Article 224 and the question of suitability would be the
first criterion. As in the case of initial appointment under Article 217 ,
so in the case of a fresh appointment after the period mentioned in Article
224 expires, there is no legal right to be appointed nor does non-
appointment give rise to any legal or constitutional infirmity so as to be
the subject of a judicial review. It is a different matter that if an
Additional Judge is considered for a permanent appointment afresh, the fact
that he has acquired some experience would undoubtedly be an important
factor to be taken into consideration while judging the suitability of the
candidate concerned. At the same time, the constitutional functionaries
cannot shut their eyes to the facts which may have come to their knowledge
either against the Additional Judge or in his favour. 533. Thus, the position is that even if an Additional Judge is not
appointed afresh and somebody else is appointed, there is no question of
judicial review nor is there any question of the non-appointment of an
Additional Judge afresh casting any reflection or aspersion on the
reputation or character of an Additional Judge because he was appointed
only for a particular period and for a particular purpose and is not on
probation. Both Brother Desai and Brother Venkataramiah, JJ. have stressed
this aspect of the matter in their own way and I agree with their views. 534. While dealing with the facts of Justice Kumar 's case, Brother
Venkataramiah, J. has observed that although there was full and effective
consultation between the CJ, Delhi, the CJI and the Law Minister,
therefore, the non-appointment of Mr. Kumar is not vitiated by any
constitutional infirmity. At one place, however, Brother Venkataramiah has
observed as follows : (see infra para 1205)

Perhaps it would have been acceptable if the case was that the Prime
Minister was favourably disposed towards Shri S. N. Kumar but the Law
Minister had tried to mislead her. 535. With due respect to my learned Brother I am unable to agree with these
observations which cannot be spelt out from the correspondence between the
constitutional functionaries mentioned above. In fact, a close and careful
perusal of the correspondence between all the constitutional functionaries,
(CJ, Delhi, CJI, and the Law Minister) would clearly show that the role of
the Law Minister has been very fair and just from start to finish. The Law
Minister insisted on the materials before taking a decision against Mr.
Kumar. These materials were supplied to the Law Minister by the CJ, Delhi.
He had also discussions with the CJI. Even thereafter the Law Minister
wanted to plug all loopholes in order to satisfy himself fully before
taking a final decision in the matter, and that is why he wrote to the CJ,
Delhi to furnish a complete data and better particulars which was done by
him (CJ, Delhi), through his letter dated May 7, 1981. 536. It is obvious that the CJ, Delhi expressed his desire that the full
material which was supplied to the Law Minister may not be sent to the CJI
but that was perhaps because the CJ, Delhi had oral discussions with the
CJI in respect of all relevant materials. The Law Minister also took care
to ignore the CBI reports against Mr. Kumar because he wanted to proceed
purely on legal and relevant materials before him. This shows the
objectivity and the fairness of his attitude in coming to a final decision.
Merely because he had advised the Prime Minister to accept the opinion of
the Chief Justice of Delhi, it cannot be said that he tried to mislead the
Prime Minister. In my opinion, to suggest even indirectly that the Law
Minister attempted to mislead the Prime Minister, in view of the
circumstances mentioned above, would be to make a most uncharitable remark
against him amounting to inflicting an 'unkind cut indeed', My Brother
Bhagwati, J. has demonstrably shown that there is not a shred of evidence
nor any reasonable basis for holding that there was a conspiracy between
CJ, Delhi and Law Minister to oust Mr. Kumar. The allegation of the alleged
conspiracy is totally unfounded and smacks of absolute recklessness. Indeed
if the Law Minister wanted to drop Mr. Kumar without any further inquiry he
could have used the IB Reports - that he completely ignored them, proves
his honesty of purpose. Merely because while exercising a constitutional
function the Law Minister preferred the opinion of CJ, Delhi to that of
CJI, no motive could be imputed to him, particularly when we have rejected
the doctrine of primacy of CJI, as dealt with by Desai, J., with whom I
fully agree. 537. I entirely agree with the very clear and adroit exposition of the
constitutional aspect of Article 224 by brothers Bhagwati and Desai, JJ. as
also with the most elaborate, careful and detailed analysis of Kumar 's case
in the light of the correspondence disclosed. I also agree with the opinion
expressed by brother Venkataramiah, J. but would like to add a few lines to
highlight some aspects of the reasons given by brothers Bhagwati and
Venkataramiah, JJ. which seem to me to be either inconsistent with the
stand taken by them or do not accord with my view. Hence, I find myself
bound to express my short opinion on these matters only. 538. Brother Bhagwati, J. after carefully analysing the facts of Kumar's
case as spelt out from the correspondence disclosed and the affidavit filed
by Mr. Kumar has returned a clear finding that the conduct of CJ, Delhi was
throughout honest and bona fide and he had acted as a responsible and
honest CJ. I fully agree with this conclusion but brother Bhagwati, J.
appears to have found fault with the CJ, Delhi for expressing his desire to
the Law Minister to keep the contents of his letter dated May 7, 1981
secret and not to place the same before the CJI. Brother Bhagwati, J. has
himself pointed out that CJ, Delhi had given cogent reasons for requesting
the Law Minister not to disclose the contents to CJI and yet in his
concluding portion while not doubting the bona fide of the CJ, Delhi, he
seems to suggest that he (CJ, Delhi) ought to have shown greater courage of
conviction so as not to have been cowed down by the apprehension that CJI
might feel offended and in this connection observed as follows : (SCC p.
329, para 102 supra)

We must, of course, observe that in our opinion, howsoever strong and
cogent might be the three reasons given by him, the Chief Justice of Delhi
should never have asked the Law Minister not to place his letter dated May
7, 1981 before the Chief Justice of India.... He should not have bothered
whether by his action in putting the facts on record in the letter dated
May 7, 1981 the Chief Justice of India would be offended and his relations
with the Chief Justice of India would be spoilt. 539. Perhaps in making these observations, with great respect, brother
Bhagwati, J., did not fully appreciate the substantial and compelling
reasons why CJ, Delhi had made a somewhat unusual though fully justifiable
request to the Law Minister not to place the letter before the CJI. As the
data and material supplied to the Law Minister in the letter dated May 7,
1981 had already been supplied to the CJI or, at any rate, orally discussed
with him, it was not necessary for the Law Minister to have disclosed the
contents of the said letter which would be more or less a surplusage and
would have naturally embittered the relations between the two high
constitutional functionaries (CJ, Delhi and CJI). 540. Secondly, if we put ourselves in the place of CJ, Delhi we would have
done the same in the circumstances. Here was a Chief Justice who was only
recently made permanent and was to continue as CJ for quite some time and
so was the CJI. In these circumstances, it is natural and obvious that CJ,
Delhi would not like to join issue with CJI at any stage or at every step
which would create difficulties in the smooth running of the High Court. 541. Thirdly, since CJ, Delhi was frank, forthright and firm to stick to
his stand despite pressures till the last, disclosure of contents to CJI
was wholly unnecessary and, in my opinion, CJ, Delhi rightly thought that
there was no use entering in an endless controversy and a consistent legal
tug of war with CJI for whom not only he but every Judge has the greatest
respect. 542. Finally, CJ Delhi at the time when he made the request could hardly
imagine or conceive that the majority of our Brother Judges would permit
disclosure of the documents leading to a public debate in respect of high
official secrets which or the last two centuries had never been disclosed.
CJ, Delhi may have thought that if the matter leaked out, it was likely to
be exploited by Mr. Kumar and his friends which would bring his court to
serious disrepute. 543. I feel that in view of the conspectus of the circumstances mentioned
above and those detailed by brother Bhagwati, J., CJ., Delhi was fully
justified in requesting the Law Minister not to reveal the contents of his
letter dated May 7, 1981 and to let the matter rest where it was. It is
true that occasions may arise when a judge in the discharge of his judicial
functions has sometimes to perform an unpleasant duty but where awkward
situations can be avoided with tact and wisdom, the exercise of power is
most laudable and beyond criticism. 544. For these reason, therefore, I am unable to agree with the
observations made by brother Bhagwati, J. on this aspect of the matter
only. 545. As regards the documents pertaining to Justice K. B. N. Singh 's case
which have been disclosed I shall discuss them while dealing with
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 546. We now propose to deal with the case of D. N. Pandey and others in
which Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of Patna High Court has now
been transposed as petitioner 3. All the connected petitions in respect of
the transfer of Justice K. B. N. Singh from Patna to Madras High Court
involve common points. The petitioner, Justice K. B. N. Singh was a
practising Advocate of the Patna High Court and was appointed a Judge of
the said High Court on September 15, 1966 and was made permanent Judge from
March 21, 1968. Thereafter, he was appointed acting Chief Justice of the
Patna High Court for a short while and as permanent Chief Justice on July
6, 1976. He was administered the oath of office on July 19, 1976. Since
then, the petitioner continues to be the permanent CJ of Patna High Court. 547. By virtue of a notification dated January 19, 1981, the petitioner was
informed that the President, after consultation with the CJI, was pleased
to transfer him to Madras High Court as Chief Justice with effect from the
date he assumes charge of that office. A similar notification was issued by
which Justice M. M. Ismail, CJ, Madras High Court was transferred as CJ of
the Kerala High Court but as Justice Ismail proceeded on leave and
ultimately retired from service the petition which was filed against the
order transferring him to Kerala no longer survives. Miss Lily Thomas who
appeared on behalf of Justice Ismail, however, confined her arguments only
to the question that the petitioner (Justice K. B. N. Singh) should not
have been transferred to Madras. 548. It appears that after the notification, Mr. M. G. Ramachandran, Chief
Minister of Tamil Nadu took great exception to the appointment of the
petitioner as CJ, Madras High Court mainly on the ground that he was not
conversant with Tamil language and, therefore, he would not be able to
function properly in the Madras High Court. We are, however, not concerned
with these matters at the present moment. 549. Coming now to the fats which are germane for the purpose of deciding
these petitions, the same may be summarised thus. The petitioner was
appointed acting Governor of Bihar from January 31, 1979 to September 31,
1979. The CJI, who is respondent 2 in Transferred Case 24 of 1981, visited
Patna in February 1980, according to the petitioner, for inaugurating the
international Rotary Conference. The petitioner met the CJI in Patna and
accompanied him to Nalanda and Rajgir. It was alleged by the petitioner
that during his visit to Bihar, the Hon'ble CJI did not give him any
inkling of his transfer to Madras or for that matter to any other place. It
was for the first time on January 5, 1981 that he received a telephone call
from the CJI informing him that Justice Ismail was being transferred to
Kerala and the petitioner would have to go to Madras. He then asked the CJI
why he had decided to send him to Madras to which the CJI replied that it
was the Government's policy that had necessitated his transfer from Patna
to Madras. The petitioner states that he was quite upset and told the CJI
that his mother who lives with him was seriously ill and bedridden and was
not in a position to leave Patna without the risk of her life and also
mentioned other circumstances and difficulties and requested that his
transfer may not be insisted upon. The CJI is alleged to have told him that
he was making a note of these circumstances. Three/four days later the
petitioner came to Delhi and called on the CJI and told him of his acute
and insurmountable personal difficulties to which reference had been made
by him during his telephonic talk with the CJI. The petitioner was with him
(CJI) for about 10-15 minutes at his residence but he found the CJI
absolutely non-committal in respect of his transfer. The petitioner
informed the CJI that he might be given a chance to remove any wrong
impression that may have been created in his mind. The CJI, however, did
not put any question or material to the petitioner. 550. The petitioner alleges that his transfer was notified without his
previous consent nor did he give his consent, nor was he even consulted in
any manner about his transfer to Madras. The petitioner further submits
that no reasons, grounds or material necessitating or justifying his
transfer from Patna to Madras were ever disclosed to him or discussed by
the President or the Government of India or anyone acting on their behalf
or even by the CJI. He also denies that the transfer was necessary in
public interest. This matter is a question of law for the courts to
examine. His main grievance was that had he been given a chance to express
his opinion he would have pointed out his compelling personal circumstances
and difficulties, more particularly the advanced age of his mother who was
more than 85 years and was bedridden for two years. 551. The petitioner took the plea that he was not conversant with Tamil
language, which was the official language of the State of Tamil Nadu, and
this would therefore be a serious impediment in his functioning as the head
of judiciary in that State. He further alleged that his transfer was made
without any effective consultation between the Government of India and the
CJI and that it was based on irrelevant and non-existent factors which were
never disclosed to him. Thereafter, he took some legal pleas regarding the
validity of the transfer, which as pure questions of law we have already
dealt with while dealing with other cases. Then, he laid great stress on
the statement made by CJI at Jaipur on January 19, 1981 that the Judges who
were recruited with the understanding that they would not be transferred to
other States should not be asked after their appointment to go to other
States and according to the petitioner the CJI said the in such transfers
the problem of language, education of their children could not be brushed
aside. The petitioner seems to suggest that by agreeing or sponsoring his
transfer to Madras, the CJI completely overlooked the observations made by
him in Jaipur. 552. Another technical objection taken by the petitioner was that the
transfer order was bad because no notification had been issued by the
President determining the compensatory allowance until a Parliamentary
legislation was passed as required by the provisions of Article 222. He
then made reference to the recommendations of various Chief Justices
Conferences held before his appointment. A number of other pleas were taken
by the petitioner, but Dr. Singhvi appearing for him, in view of the
delicate and sensitive questions that arose, very rightly decided to argue
the case on the convergence rather than divergence of the issues raised by
the petitioner in his petition or in his affidavits. 553. As a plea for disclosure of the documents in the nature of
correspondence which led to the transfer of the petitioner from Patna to
Madras was also prayed for, a counter-affidavit was filed by Shri T. N.
Chaturvedi, Home Secretary opposing the disclosure and taking the plea of
privilege under Sections 123 and 124 of the Evidence Act. The court by a
majority of 6 : 1, as in other cases, in this case also overruled the plea
of privilege and directed disclosure of the documents concerning the
correspondence but omitting the notes and some minutes which fell within
the ambit of Article 74(2) of the Constitution. The Hon'ble CJI, who is
respondent 2, filed his counter-affidavit on September 29, 1981, as
directed by us, where he denied or rebutted most of the allegations of fact
made by the petitioner in his affidavit. The petitioner filed another
rejoinder on October 16, 1981 to the counter-affidavit of the CJI. 554. So far as the CJI is concerned, he admitted the fact that he visited
Patna in February 1980 but denied that he had gone there only for the
purpose of inaugurating the Rotary International Conference. He averred
that he visited Patna in the exercise of his official duties particularly
in order to meet the Judges and the members of the Bar and had informed the
petitioner regarding his visit to Patna on February 23, 1980. According to
the CJI, inauguration of the Rotary International Conference was merely an
incidental matter which he did during his presence at Patna. He has also
stated that even before his visit to Patna he had received a letter from
the petitioner enclosing a list of some senior Advocates whom he would like
to meet individually but the CJI asked him to add names of five more
Advocates. 555. On reaching Patna, the CJI met the members of the Bar individually on
February 24, 1980 and on the next day in the evening he met the members of
the Advocates Association in the High Court premises. He also admitted his
visits to Nalanda and Rajgir. He further states that during his visit to
Patna he did not give the petitioner any inkling about his proposed
transfer to Madras because in February 1980 there was no proposal to
transfer him anywhere. The proposal of his transfer matured almost one year
after. 556. The CJI further states that he did have a talk over the telephone with
the petitioner on January 5, 1981 and apprised him of the likelihood of his
being transferred to Madras and asked him if he had anything to say. The
CJI denied that he merely said that the petitioner was being sent to Madras
in view of the Government policy but added that apart from the Government
policy he had expressly told him that it was proposed to transfer him to
Madras because he was an experienced and senior Chief Justice. The CJI
admits that the petitioner had informed him that his mother was bedridden
and not in a position to go to Madras but he did not tell him (CJI) about
any other difficulty. The CJI further states that the petitioner had hinted
that if his transfer was insisted upon he would prefer to resign.
Thereupon, he (CJI) requested him not to act in haste and to give the
matter a close thought. He also informed the petitioner that he was making
a note of the difficulty expressed by him. He also requested him to come to
Delhi and discuss the question of his transfer. The CJI further states that
the petitioner met him in Delhi three/four days later and was with him for
10-15 minutes and acquainted him (CJI) of his acute and insurmountable
personal difficulties in the event of his transfer to Madras. The CJI
further admitted that the petitioner was at his residence on January 8,
1981 at 7.30 p.m. and during their discussion the question of his mother's
advanced age and illness also came up which was the only personal
difficulty stressed by him (petitioner). The CJI told him that he was
unable to agree with him because there were other dependable persons in the
family, including his brother S. B. N. Singh, who could look after his
mother. The CJI also states that the petitioner gave him an impression that
perhaps some complaints may have been made against him to the CJI which he
would like to remove, on which the CJI assured him that he did not believe
that his conduct was in any way blameworthy but certain persons were
exploiting their proximity to him which had created needless
misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Other matters were also mentioned by
the petitioner to the CJI which have no direct bearing on the issue. 557. In para 5 of his counter-affidavit the CJI has averred that there was
full and effective consultation between him and the President on the
question of the transfer of the petitioner from Patna to Madras and that
every relevant aspect of that question was discussed by him fully with the
President both before and after he proposed the transfer. The other
allegations made by the petitioner were denied. The CJI also stated that he
was personally aware since February 1980 that his (petitioner's) mother was
advanced in age and was not in a good state of health. Admitting the
allegation of the petitioner regarding his speech at Jaipur, the CJI
mentioned in his affidavit that he had given thoughtful consideration to he
personal difficulty narrated by the petitioner during his meeting. 558. Lastly, the CJI mentioned that as the petitioner was one of the
seniormost High Court CJs, he could function efficiently even despite the
language difficulty. 559. The petitioner filed a rejoinder-affidavit on October 16, 1981
(hereafter referred to as the 'second affidavit') where he reiterated the
allegations made in his first affidavit and denied some of the facts
mentioned by the CJI. In his second affidavit he stated that the CJI head
said the it was the Government's policy to effect transfers in batches of
two or three judges. This statement is a little inconsistent with his
previous statement in his first affidavit where he had mentioned that he
was informed by the CJI that it was the Government's policy. In that
affidavit he did not say about the transfer in batches of two or three,
which seems to have been added in the second affidavit. 560. This is a most difficult and delicate situation where two high
constitutional functionaries are involved and have given affidavits and
counter-affidavits. In a matter of such a serious magnitude, the Court has
to make a very careful and cautious approach having regard to the
respectability of the persons who have sworn the affidavits. We would,
therefore, like to avoid unnecessary details and, as rightly contended by
Dr. Singhvi, confine our attention only to the points of convergence
without touching the issues of divergence. Before, however, we deal with
the admitted facts which emerge from the affidavits concerned, it may be
necessary to refer to the well-settled law on the subject of effective
consultation which is a necessary concomitant of a valid and constitutional
order of transfer passed by the President. 561. Article 222 constitutes a clear mandate that the transfer of a Judge
from one High Court to another can be made only in consultation with the
CJI. As the connotation of the word 'consultation' has now been well
settled by a long course of decisions of this Court, it is not necessary
for us to multiply authorities on this issue. We shall, therefore, refer
only to those decisions which lay down complete and objective test for
determining what constitutes effective consultation in a particular case.
To begin with, we shall start with Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , which is the only decision directly in
point and where the matter was discussed fully covering all shades and
aspects of this important question. Before referring to that case a few
introductory remarks may be necessary. 562. We have already indicated above that on an interpretation of Article
222 the proposal for transfer of a Judge (which includes Chief Justice)
from one High Court to another may emanate either from the President or
from the CJI. Although according to the Memorandum which was produced
before us, the practices is that the proposal is to emanate from the
President through the law Minister but, as we have already pointed out that
the Memorandum cannot override the provisions of Article 222 being only in
the form of a guide-line, there is nothing to prevent the proposal
emanating from the CJI. In either case, however the process of effective
consultation is to be gone through according to the principles laid down
and directions given by this Court. In the instant case, the admitted
position is that the proposal for transfer of the petitioner for the first
time emanated from the CJI by virtue of his letter dated December 7, 1980.
At that time the recommendation of the CJI was to transfer the petitioner
to Rajasthan which was later changed and by a subsequent letter dated
December 20, 1980 the CJI proposed that the petitioner be transferred to
Madras and Justice Ismail from Madras to Kerala. This is the proposal which
is in dispute in the present case. 563. In Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , this Court
 proceeded on the footing that the proposal had emanated
from the President and laid down detailed guidelines and principles which
should be followed in order to make consultation effective. It is obvious
that where the proposal emanates from the CJI the same principles would
apply though in the reverse process. In other words, what the President is
required to do under Article 222 if the proposal emanates from him has to
be done by the CJI if he is the author of the proposal of transfer. The
present CJI in his majority judgment has considered the matter fully and
exhaustively and his judgment contains the most brilliant and scientific
exposition of the doctrine of consultation. While dwelling on the
attributes of effective consultation, Chandrachud, J. (as he then was)
observed as follows : (SCC pp. 226, 227, 228, paras 35, 37, 38 & 39)

It casts and absolute obligation on the President to consult the Chief
Justice of India before transferring a Judge from one High Court to
another. The word "may" in Article 222(1) qualifies the last clause which
refers to the transfer of a Judge and not the intervening clause which
refers to consultation with the Chief Justice of India. The President may
or may not transfer a Judge from one High Court to another. He is not
compelled to do so. But if he proposes to transfer a Judge, he must consult
the Chief Justice of India before transferring the Judge. That is in the
nature of a condition precedent to the actual transfer of the Judge. In
other words, the transfer of a High Court Judge to another High Court
cannot become effective unless the Chief Justice of India is consulted by
the President in behalf of the proposed transfer. Indeed, it is euphemistic
to talk in terms of effectiveness, because the transfer of a High Court
Judge to another High Court is unconstitutional unless, before transferring
the Judge, the President consults the Chief Justice of India.But there can
be no purposeful consideration of a matter, in the absence of facts and
circumstances on the basis of which alone he nature of the problem involved
can be appreciated and the right decision taken. It must, therefore, follow
that while consulting the Chief Justice, the President must make the
relevant data available to him on the basis of which he can offer to the
President the benefit of his considered opinion. If the facts necessary to
arrive at a proper conclusion are not made available to the Chief Justice,
he must ask for them because, in casting on the President the obligation to
consult the Chief Justice, the Constitution at the same time must be taken
to have imposed a duty on the Chief Justice to express his opinion on
nothing less than a full consideration of the matter on which he is
entitled to be consulted. The fulfilment by the President, of his
constitutional obligation to place full facts before the Chief Justice and
the performance by the latter, of the duty to elicit facts which are
necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are parts of the same process
and are complementary to each other. The faithful observance of these may
well earn a handsome dividend useful to the administration of justice.
Consultation within the meaning of Article 222(1) , therefore, means full
and effective, not formal or unproductive consultation. .. . Thus, deliberation is the quintessence of consultation. That implies
that each individual case must be considered separately on the basis of its
own facts. . . . . . "The word 'consult' implies a conference of two or more persons or an
impact of two or more minds in respect of a topic in order to enable them
to evolve a correct, or at least, a satisfactory solution." ( Vide R.
Pushpam v. State of Madras , : 66 Mad LW 53 : 1953 1 Mad
LJ 88 (per K. Subba Rao, J.)) In order that the two minds may be able to
confer and produce a mutual impact, it is essential that each must have for
its consideration full and identical facts, which can at once constitute
both the source and foundation of the final decision. 564. Similarly, Krishna Iyer, J. speaking for himself and one of us (Fazal
Ali, J.) described the consultative process thus : (SCC p. 273, para 115)

The consultation, in order to fulfil its normative function in Article
222(1) , must be a real, substantial and effective consultation based on
full and proper materials placed before the Chief Justice by the
Government. Before giving his opinion the Chief Justice of India would
naturally take into consideration all relevant factors and may informally
ascertain from the Judge concerned if he has any real personal difficulty
or any humanitarian ground on which his transfer may not be directed. Such
grounds may be of a wide range including his health or extreme family
factors. It is not necessary for the Chief Justice to issue formal notice
to the Judge concerned but it is sufficient - although it is not obligatory - if he ascertains these facts either from the Chief Justice of the High
Court or from his own colleagues or through any other means which the Chief
Justice thinks safe, fair and reasonable. Where a proposal of transfer of a
Judge is made the Government must forward ever possible material to the
Chief Justice so that he is in a position to give an effective opinion. 565. Bhagwati, J. (one of us) agreed entirely with the observations
extracted above. 566. In an earlier Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Chandramouleshwar Prasad v. Patna High Court while dealing with the intent and
purpose of Article 233 , the principles of which equally apply to
consultation under Article 222 , Mitter, J. observed thus : (SCC p. 63, para 7)

Consultation with the High Court under Article 233 is not an empty
formality. So far as promotion of officers to the cadre of District Judges
is concerned the High Court is best fitted to adjudge the claims and merits
of persons to be considered for promotion... Consultation or deliberation
is not complete or effective before the parties thereto make their
respective points of view known to the other or others and discuss and
examine the relative merits of their views. If one party makes a proposal
to the other who has a counter-proposal in his mind which is not
communicated to the proposer the direction to give effect to the counter-
proposal without anything more, cannot be said to have been issued after
consultation. 567. This case was followed both by Chandrachud, J. and Krishna Iyer, J.
and one of us (Fazal Ali, J.) in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , where it was held that the observations made in
this case constitute the true meaning and content of consultation as
envisaged by Article 222(1) of the Constitution. 568. In Chandra Mohan case ( Chandra Mohan v. State of U.P. , this Court made the following
observations regarding the process and purport of consultation : 569. Analysing the ratio of the decisions in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth, and Chandramouleshwar Prasad case the following
necessary concomitants of an effective consultation may be stated : In other words, the two minds must be able to confer and produce a mutual
impact on the identical facts which would constitute both the source and
the foundation of the final decision. (8) The CJI owes a corresponding duty both to the President and to the
Judge who is proposed to be transferred to consider every relevant fact
before tendering his pinion to the President. (9) Before giving his opinion the CJI must take into consideration all
relevant facts and should informally ascertain from the Judge is he has any
personal difficulty or any humanitarian ground on which his transfer is
proposed to be made and having done so, must forward the same to the
President.(These principles were laid down in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . (10) Consultation or deliberation is not complete until the parties make
their points of view known to the other or others and discuss and examine
the relative merit of their views. If one party makes a proposal to the
other who has a counter-proposal which is not communicated to the proposer,
the direction to give effect to the counter-proposal without anything more
will not amount to consultation. (This was held in Chandramouleshwar case ). 570. We shall now state the admitted facts which emerge from the two
affidavits of the petitioner and the counter-affidavit of the CJI to show
whether the tests mentioned above have been fully satisfied or not. It is
clearly established both from the petitioner's affidavit and the counter-
affidavit of CJI that during his (CJI) visit to Patna there was absolutely
no suggestion or proposal to transfer the petitioner from Patna to Madras.
The petitioner categorically states this in para 8 of his first affidavit
(filed on September 16, 1981). This fact is endorsed and admitted by the
CJI in para 2(e) of his counter-affidavit where he says thus : 571. Thus, the first fact on which there is no controversy or divergence is
that during his visit to Patna in February 1980 the CJI did not give any
indication to the petitioner regarding his transfer to Madras as there was
no such proposal. 572. A perusal of the two affidavits would clearly show that there is no
averment either by the petitioner or by the CJI that they ever met at any
other place between February 1980 and January 5, 1981. It must, therefore,
be taken to be established that after his visit in February 1980 the first
time CJI had a talk with the petitioner was only on January 5, 1981. In
this connection, averments are to be found in para 8 of petitioner's first
affidavit and in para 2(f) of CJI's counter-affidavit where he states thus
: 573. Another conclusive fact which inevitably follows from the aforesaid
two averments is that even when the CJI sent the proposal dated December
20, 1980 of the transfer of the petitioner from Patna to Madras and that of
Justice Ismail from Madras to Kerala, there was neither any talk or
discussion nor any consultation with the petitioner. We have highlighted
this important fact because from the observations extracted above one of
the essential ingredients emphasised by this Court and even by the CJI
himself was that there should be a communication of ideas before the
proposal of transfer emanates. We shall elaborate this aspect a little
later. 574. According to the petitioner he was told by the CJI on telephone that
he was to be sent to Madras in pursuance of a Government policy. The CJI in
his counter-affidavit in para 2(g) stated that he did not merely indicate
Government policy but also stated that it was necessary to appoint and
experienced and senior CJ in place of Justice Ismail. In the circumstances,
therefore, we would prefer the statement of the CJI to that of the
petitioner particularly in view of the fact that in his second affidavit
the petitioner has introduced an additional fact to the effect that the CJI
had told him that it was the Government policy to effect transfers in
batches of two or three. This minor contradiction is, however, not of much
value because the fact remains that the petitioner was sounded by the CJI
for the first time on January 5, 1981 over the telephone. 575. The petitioner states that he explained to the CJI that his mother was
seriously ill and bedridden and was not in a position to be moved and added
that if his transfer was insisted upon, he might be compelled to resign.
This statement is to be found in para 8 of the petitioner's first
affidavit. This fact is admitted by the CJI in para 2(h) of his counter-
affidavit which runs thus : 576. The CJI however denies that the petitioner told him of any other
personal circumstance by reasons of which he was unable to go to Madras. We
will accept this statement of the CJI also in preference to the statement
made by the petitioner. The CJI admits that the petitioner had indicated
his intention to resign if his transfer was insisted upon but he cautioned
him to consider the matter more thoroughly before taking a final decision.
On this point also there does not appear to be any controversy as there is
a large measure of agreement in the statements contained in the affidavits
of the petitioner and the CJI. 577. We then come to the finale of the drama which is the most important
factor to determine as to whether or not there was an effective
consultation as contemplated by Article 222. Before however we deal with
this aspect of the matter we might mention that in the present case the
letter dated December 7, 1980 sent by the CJI to the Law Minister clearly
shows that it was the CJI who had initiated the proposal unlike in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , where the
proposal was initiated by the President through the Law Minister. If this
was the position then the formalities and the duties that the President had
to comply were now to be observed by the CJI, that is to say, it was for
the CJI to consult the Judge concerned, consider his difficulties and then
come to a final conclusion. Further, it was also for the CJI to have placed
the entire facts, data, difficulties and viewpoints mentioned to him by the
petitioner, before the President. Even if the CJI was not impressed by the
difficulties expressed by the petitioner the materials and data given to
him either orally or in writing had to be communicated to the President
because the possibility of the President taking a different view cannot be
reasonably excluded. 578. According to the averments made by the petitioner in para 8 of his
second affidavit, he was not with the CJI for a period of more than 15
minutes. He further denied that apart from his mother's advanced age and
illness no other facts were mentioned before the CJI. According to him, he
had told the CJI that being the eldest son it was a sacred obligation to
keep his mother with him and having regard to the close attachment with
her, he could not leave her with any of his brothers or other members of
the family which was divided and partitioned. It may be relevant to note
that in para 9 of his first affidavit the petitioner merely stated that he
told the CJI of his acute and insurmountable personal difficulties without
detailing them. He also admits that he was with the CJI at his residence on
January 8, 1981 for 10-15 minutes. He further mentioned that the CJI might
have received complaints against him and he wanted to remove the wrong
impression created against him. Para 9 of his first affidavit which
contains details of the discussions he had with the CJI, does not at all
mention the further facts which the petitioner has mentioned in para 8 of
his second affidavit about the sacred obligation, his mother's illness,
inability of other members of her family to look after her. In view of this
omission we would accept the affidavit of the CJI which is fully
corroborated by what the petitioner himself stated in his first affidavit.
Although we may not go to the extent of saying that the subsequent
statement of the petitioner made in para 8 of his second affidavit was an
afterthought but in the circumstances it is sufficient to state that we
would prefer to rely on the affidavit of the CJI as the subsequent facts
were not indicated in the first affidavit of the petitioner. On the other
hand, the CJI in para 3 of his counter-affidavit replying to the statement
of the petitioner that he (CJI) may have received baseless complaints,
averred that he tried his best to convince him (petitioner) that he did not
believe this (sic that) his (petitioner's) conduct was blameworthy and left
him free to explain any matter which according to him had created
dissatisfaction about the working of the High Court. Thereupon the
petitioner narrated to him that there were number of persons inspired by
communal and other extraneous considerations who tried to influence him
(petitioner) administratively or judicially. The CJI however assured him
that certain persons were exploiting their proximity to him which had
created needless misunderstanding and is satisfaction. These details,
mentioned by the CJI, have not been contradicted or denied by the
petitioner and we fully accept what the CJI had said in para 3 of his
counter-affidavit. 579. As regards other matters, the CJI does say that other issues were also
discussed on the evening of January 8, 1981 but they had no bearing on the
matters in issue. In para 4 of his counter-affidavit the CJI admitted the
statement of the petitioner, made in para 10 of his first affidavit, that
he did not convey his consent to the proposal of his transfer, but the CJI
added that he was consulted about his transfer to Madras. The consultation
referred to by the CJI is obviously to the telephonic talk on January 5,
1981 and the personal meeting between them on the evening of January 8,
1981. 580. These are the points of convergence on which by and large there does
not appear to be any serious controversy and even if there is any, we have
preferred to rely on the affidavit of the CJI as in the normal course of
business we must, so long as the law permits. 581. The most crucial averment by the CJI which forms the bulwark of the
essential ingredient of effective consultation is to be found in para 5 of
his counter-affidavit which runs thus : 582. So far as the first part of the affidavit is concerned that is a pure
question of law, viz., whether on the facts effective consultation was
proved or not. The CJI categorically states that every relevant aspect of
the question was discussed by him fully with the President both before and
after he proposed the transfer. It may be noticed that the name of the
petitioner figures in the first proposal sent by the CJI to the Law
Minister on December 7, 1980 wherein he had clearly recommended that the
petitioner be transfered as CJ, Rajasthan High Court. This proposal was,
therefore, not merely an information but a regular proposal by which the
CJI had recommended Justice K. B. N. Singh to be transferred to Rajasthan.
We have already pointed out that between February 1980 and January 5, 1981
there is no evidence at all, nor any allegation or averment either in the
affidavits of the petitioner or of the CJI to indicate that he had either
orally or in writing ascertained the views of the petitioner when he (CJI)
by his aforesaid proposal recommended the transfer of Justice K. B. N.
Singh to Rajasthan as Chief Justice. It must, therefore, taken to be
established that there was no discussion at all nor any consultation
between them when for the first time the ball was set in motion through the
proposal of recommendation sent by the CJI to the Law Minister on December
7, 1980. Even so we may not attach much significance to this fact because
this proposal ultimately fell through and was substituted by a later
proposal sent on December 20, 1980. In his letter dated December 20, 1980
the CJI wrote to the Law Minister that in view of the fact that a vacancy
would occur in the office of CJ, Madras High Court he proposed that Justice
K. B. N. Singh be transferred as CJ, Madras High Court. This is the
proposal which is in dispute in the present case. It is common ground that
even between December 7 and 20, 1980, there was no talk or consultation
between the petitioner and the CJI. The position is that until January 5,
1981 the petitioner was not given any idea or inkling about his being
transferred to Madras High Court. Admittedly, for the first time the
petitioner was informed by the CJI over the telephone on January 5, 1981.
This was followed by a meeting and detailed discussion by the CJI with the
petitioner at the former's residence in Delhi on January 8, 1981 at about
8.00 p.m. 583. The fact that before the proposal recommending the transfer of Justice
K. B. N. Singh to Rajasthan or to Madras, there was no consultation between
the CJI and the petitioner, conclusively proves that one of the first
ingredients of the consultative process, viz., consultation by the CJI with
the proposed transferee should always be held as a first step towards
making the consultation constitutionally effective was not observed. This
was held, as extracted above, by CJI in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , where he has gone to the extent of
holding that if there is no such consultation before the transfer, then the
transfer becomes unconstitutional. This, therefore, appears to be the first
constitutional infirmity in the consultative process as contemplated by Article 222. 584. This now brings us to January 8, 1981 when there was a full discussion
between the petitioner and the CJI. We shall accept the statement of the
CJI made in his counter-affidavit, in toto that he had discussed the matter
threadbare with the petitioner and considered his difficulties. This limb
of the consultative process was no doubt fully complied with as required by
the Constitution. 585. Then we come to the third aspect of the consultative process.
According to the CJI he had met the President and discussed every aspect of
the matter, disclosed to him by the petitioner. Unfortunately, the CJI does
not disclose the exact constitutional authority with whom he had discussed
these matters, although it would have been much better if he had done so
and that would have put the entire matter beyond any controversy. On this
point, Dr. Singhvi as also Mr. B. C. Ghosh appearing for one of the
petitioners vehemently contended that as the CJI was making a statement in
an affidavit before a court of law, there was no justification for him to
use the word 'President' and he should have mentioned the name of the exact
authority with whom he had discussed the matter, failing which this part of
the affidavit should be rejected as being vague. Having regard to the very
high position that the CJI occupies, his word is entitled to the greatest
weight and respect, we would draw all presumptions within the bounds of law
in favour of the CJI and presume that by using the word 'President' the CJI
obviously intended the constitutional authority, who was being consulted
generally before or after the proposals for transfers were made viz., the
Law Minister. We will also go even to the extent of holding that perhaps he
may have had some discussion with the Law Minister also. What facts he may
have revealed and in what way he put forward the point of view of the
petitioner we are not able to say, because the affidavit of the CJI is
absolutely silent on this point. Giving however the widest possible
connotation to the words used by the CJI, viz., 'every relevant aspect of
the question', would include all the personal difficulties which were
mentioned to him by the petitioner, we are yet faced with another serious
difficulty. In Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth ,
 the CJI has himself clearly held that deliberation is the
quintessence of consultation. Thus, according to the CJI himself even if he
had disclosed or placed all the materials before the Law Minister, he ought
to have been given sufficient time for deliberation over the matters so as
to be able to make up his mind, whether to agree or disagree with the CJI,
and to advise the President accordingly. It may be that the personal
difficulties may not have weighed with the CJI but the possibility of the
Law Minister being impressed by them cannot be excluded. But as things
stood, we find that the Prime Minister had already signed the file relating
to transfer on January 9, 1981 and it can safely be presumed that the file
must have been sent by the Law Minister to the Prime Minister either some
time in the morning of 9th or late at night on 8th. This would leave no
time at all to the Law Minister or the Prime Minister to deliberate on the
various personal issues raised by the petitioner in his discussion with the
CJI. Indeed, if prior to sending the formal proposal recommending the
transfer of the petitioner the CJI would have taken the precaution of
ascertaining his views there would have been sufficient time for the Law
Minister or the President to deliberate. 586. It was strongly urged by the petitioner that from the statement of the
Law Minister produced by the Solicitor-General before us it would appear
that no minutes were recorded and the CJI had only mentioned to the Law
Minister about his proposal to transfer the petitioner. Thus, from these
facts it should be inferred that there was no discussion between the CJI
and the Law Minister about the personal difficulties of the petitioner. It
is true that from the file produced before us no minutes seem to have been
recorded about the discussion which the CJI had with the Law Minister
either on the 8th night or before that but that by itself would not exclude
oral discussions having taken place after the detailed talk the CJI had
with the petitioner on the evening of 8th. This, therefore, does not
advance the case of the petitioner any further. 587. Applying the ratio of Chandramouleshwar case ) to the facts of this case, the position
may be stated thus - here the CJI made a proposal for transfer of the
petitioner to Madras but this proposal was not communicated to the
petitioner who may have had a counter-proposal in his mind which also was
not communicated to the President who was the person who decided the matter
finally. 588. Thus, even though we may not disbelieve every letter and every word
contained in the counter-affidavit of CJI and give him the full benefit of
all possible legal presumptions, we come to the inescapable conclusion that
the constitutional requirements of an effective consultation have not been
proved beyond reasonable doubt inasmuch as - (1) the petitioner was not consulted before the formal proposal
recommending him for transfer to Rajasthan and then to Madras, was sent to
the Government,(2) that there is no mention at all in any of the proposals
dated December 7, 1980 or December 20, 1980 regarding any discussion having
been held with the petitioner,

(3) that there is nothing to show that the President or the concerned
constitutional authority had sufficient time to deliberate over the pros
and cons of the transfer particularly in view of the difficulties placed by
the petitioner,

(4) the case squarely falls within the ratio laid down in Chandramouleshwar case discussed above which had been approved by the CJI himself and Krishna
Iyer, J. and one of us (Fazal Ali, J.) in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . 589. In view of the circumstances discussed above the consultative process
as contemplated by Article 222 is clearly vitiated which renders the order
impugned passed by the President constitutionally invalid. 590. We must hasten to add that we have taken the greatest possible care to
see that no finding is given or observations made by us which may either
directly or indirectly cast any kind of aspersion on the recitals in the
counter-affidavit of the CJI nor is there any circumstance proved in this
case which may amount to such an aspersion. As already observed by us we
have accepted the affidavit of the CJI in toto giving the due respect that
it deserves. We have decided this case purely on the constitutional
infirmities present in the consultative process and that too on the basis
of the observations made and the decision given by the CJI himself in Sheth case. ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . 591. The last point of law that was urged by the petitioner was that the
transfer was constitutionally invalid because one of the essential
conditions of Article 222 had not been fulfilled in this particular case.
It was argued that Article 222(2) , which is extracted below, requires a
Presidential order by which the transferee Judge would be entitled to such
compensatory allowance as the President may by order fix : 592. It was contended that this mandatory provision of Article 222(2) has
not been complied with. We, however, find absolutely no substance in this
argument because while Article 222(2) does require that on transfer form
one High Court to another, compensatory allowance may be paid, it does not
state that the Presidential Order should issue pari passu the order of
transfer. Such an Order could follow the transfer. Moreover, as the
petitioner never cared to join his new assignment and before he could do so
the writ petitions were filed and proceedings were stayed, there was no
occasion for the President to pass the order directing compensatory
allowance to be paid to him until the validity of the transfer of the
petitioner was finally adjudged by this Court. This is not a case where a
Judge or a CJ having been transferred had joined his new assignment and
started working and still no Order of compensatory allowance was made by
the President. 593. Before finally closing this Chapter we might mention that another
reason given by Brother Venkataramiah, J. for upholding the impugned Order
was that as under Section 114 , Ill. (e) of the Evidence Act there is a
presumption that official acts must be deemed to have been actually done,
this Court must presume that if there was any infirmity in the consultation
the same must have been complied with. With great respect to our learned
Brother, we are however unable to agree with this argument. The presumption
applies only where there is no challenge to the constitutional validity of
an official act. Where an act is found to be per se unconstitutional, the
question of raising a presumption does not arise because once it is held,
as found in this case, that the consultation did not fulfil the
constitutional requirements, the order impugned would become void ab initio
and non est. 594. We are fortified in our view by a decision of this Court in Collector
of Customs v. Digvijaysinhji Spinning & Weaving Mills Ltd. where Subba Rao, J. (as he then was)
made the following observations : 595. An identical view was taken in Emperor v. Sibnath Banerjee 1943
AIR(FC) 75 : 1944 FCR 1 : 211 IC 241). In the instant case in view of our
clear finding that the essential ingredients of effective consultation as
required by Article 222 not being proved, the question of drawing a
presumption under Section 114 , Ill. (e) of the Evidence Act does not arise. 596. For the reasons given above we hold that the Order of the President
transferring the petitioner, Justice K. B. N. Singh from Patna to Madras is
constitutionally invalid and we hereby quash the notification dated January
19, 1981 passed by the President. 597. The fact that the Order of transfer in this particular case has been
held to be invalid and quashed, will not preclude the Government from
making fresh orders of transfers after formulating a general policy of
transfers on the lines and the manner indicated by us so that every High
Court has a Chief Justice from outside and at the initial stage one-third
of the strength of the Judges is recruited from outside the State. 598. Thus, the position is that while I have expressed my separate opinions
on Article 222 (Transfered Case No. 22 of 1981), the Circular and the
Policy of Transfer, question of Privilege and Transferred Case No. 24 of
1981 and have made some observations on other questions also but subject to
the observations made I would entirely agree with Brother Bhagwati, Desai
and Venkataramiah, JJ. in respect of article 217 and 224, on Primacy with
Brother Desai, J. and regarding Kumar's case (Transferred Case No. 20 of
1981) and the question of locus with Brother Bhagwati, J. 599. The result is that petitions arising out of Transferred Cases Nos. 19,
20, 21 and 22 of 1981 are accordingly dismissed. Writ Petition No. 274 of
1981, Transferred Cases Nos. 2 and 6 of 1981 are accordingly disposed of.
Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 1509 of 1981 is dismissed as withdrawn. 600. Petitions arising out of Transferred case No. 24 of 1981 are allowed
but without any order as to costs. Tulzapurkar, J. - On March 18, 1981 Hon'ble Shri P. Shiv Shankar, Minister
for Law, Justice and Company Affairs, Government of India addressed the
following Circular letter to the (1) Governor of Punjab and (2) Chief
Ministers (by name) (except North-Eastern States) :D.O. No 66/10/81-Jus
Minister of Law,

Justice & Company Affairs,

India

New Delhi-110 001

March 18, 1981

My dear

It has repeatedly been suggested to Government over the years by several
bodies and forums including the States Reorganisation Commission, the Law
Commission and various Bar Associations that to further national
integration and to combat narrow parochial tendencies bred by caste,
kinship and other local links and affiliations, one-third of the Judges of
a High Court should as far as possible be from outside the State in which
that High Court is situated. Somehow, no start could be made in the past in
this direction. The feeling is strong, growing and justified that some
effective steps should be taken very early in this direction. 2. In this context, I would request you to - (a) obtain from all the Additional Judges working in the High Court of your
State their consent to be appointed as permanent Judges in any other High
Court in the country. They could, in addition, be requested to name three
High Courts, in order of preference, to which they would prefer to be
appointed as permanent Judges; and (b) obtain from persons who have already been or may in the future be
proposed by you for initial appointment their consent to be appointed to
any other High Court in the country along with a similar preference for
three High Courts. 3. While obtaining the consent and the preference of the persons mentioned
in Paragraph 2 above, it may be made clear to them that the furnishing of
the consent or the indication of a preference does not imply any commitment
on the part of Government either in regard to their appointment or in
regard to accommodation in accordance with the preferences given. 4. I would be grateful if action is initiated very early by you and the
written consent and preferences of all Additional Judges as well as of
persons recommended by you for initial appointment are sent to me within a
fortnight of the receipt of this letter. 5. I am also sending a copy of this letter to the Chief Justice of your
High Court. With regards,

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

It further appears that prior to as well as after the issuance of the
aforesaid circular letter by the Union Law Minister on March 18, 1981, in
several High Courts, including High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay and Delhi,
the President of India acting under Article 224 granted short-term
extensions for three months, six months or a year to sitting Additional
Judges whose initial terms were about to expire but since such sort-term
extensions became a frequent phenomenon, particularly after the issuance of
the aforesaid circular letter, it created great consternation in the legal
and judicial circles in the country. These two actions of the Union
Government, namely, the issuance of the circular letter dated March 18,
1981 and the grant of short-term extensions led to legal action being taken
challenging the same which is the subject-matter of the instant
adjudication. 602. Having regard to their high position as a constitutional functionary
all the sitting Additional Judges in various High Courts, though agitated
by these two actions of the Union Government understandably felt reluctant
to adopt legal steps against the same (barring the exception of Mr. Justice
S. N. Kumar who as a party-respondent to the writ petition filed in Delhi
High Court has actively supported the challenge to these actions and has
also challenged the further action of dropping him outright that occurred
during the pendency of the petition) but the legal profession which was
vitally interested in the maintenance of an independent and fearless
Judiciary - with its concomitant power of judicial review - a basic feature
of our Constitution and also a necessary postulate for the legal
profession, felt terribly disturbed and thought of taking action
challenging the same and the sequel was the filing of four writ petitions
one in Allahabad High Court, two in Delhi High Court and one in the Bombay
High Court, all of which were transferred to this Court, being Transferred
Case No. 19 of 1981 (Shri Gupta's Writ petition No. 4845 of 1981 in the
Allahabad High Court). Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 (Shri Tarkunde's
Writ Petition No. 882 of 1981 in Delhi High Court), Transferred Case No. 21
of 1981 (Shri Kalra's Writ petition No. 636 of 1981 in Delhi High Court)
and Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 (Shri Iqbal Chagla's Writ Petition No.
527 of 1981 in the Bombay High Court). Excepting the Transferred Case No.
21 of 1981 where only short-term extensions are challenged, in the other
three cases both the actions have been challenged. 603. According to the petitioners both the aforesaid actions of the Union
Government forming part of a scheme constitute a direct attack on the
independence of the Judiciary. Which is a basic feature of our
Constitution, and being illegal and unconstitutional are liable to be and
deserve to be quashed or struck down. As regards Circular letter it is
pointed out that it is in two parts : (i) in relation to sitting Additional
Judges in all the States of India (except North-Eastern States) it seeks to
obtain their consent in substance to their transfer as Permanent Judges to
States other than their own and (ii) in relation to the proposed appointees
(either from the Bar or Services) for initial appointment (either as
Additional or Permanent Judges) it seeks to obtain their consent for being
appointed to any other High Court in the country (meaning other than their
home-State High Court); and in this behalf it also seeks from them their
choice by naming three High Courts in order of preference to which they
would prefer to go; and this is being done with a view to implement the
policy of having one-third of the Judges of a High Court, as far as
possible, from outside the State in which that High Court is situated on
grounds of furthering national integration and combating narrow parochial
tendencies, bred by caste, Kinship and other local links and affiliations.
According to the petitioners this Circular letter seeks to effect, in
substance and reality, a mass transfer of sitting Additional Judges as also
of the proposed appointees based on a policy decision unilaterally taken by
the Law Minister/Union Government and as such violates the requirements of Article 222(1) of the Constitution as laid down by this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , inasmuch as such mass 
transfers on alleged grounds of policy are
outside its scope and further it reduces the efficacy of the consultation
with the Chief Justice of India contemplated therein to a meaningless
formality by presenting a transfer proposal to him as a fait accompli, the
same being backed by the consent of the concerned Judge or the proposed
appointee to his transfer. It is also contended that the Circular letter is
illegal as being without authority of law. Thirdly, as far as the siting
Additional Judges are concerned, it is contended that inasmuch as para 3 of
the Circular letter makes it clear that even if consent is given and
preference is indicated there is no commitment on the part of the
Government either to appoint them as Permanent Judges or accept their
preference, the said letter contains, by implication, a threat to them that
if they do not give their consent they will not be either continued as
Additional Judges or confirmed as Permanent Judges; the said statement in
para 3, by necessary implication, also contains a threat that the
Government would watch their performance in matters to which the
Government, Government Bodies and Corporations are parties before them and
would appoint them as Permanent Judges only if they were found to toe the
Government line and as such it constitutes gross interference with
administration of justice and is subversive of judicial independence;
moreover, the consent is sought to be obtained under threat, coercion and
duress and also in advance and in abstract and the same would be no consent
in law. As regards the proposed appointees it introduces an additional
qualification for being appointed as Additional or Permanent Judge not
warranted by the Constitution. Fourthly, it is contended that the said
statement in para 3 of the Circular letter also shows that there was no
justification for writing the said letter at all and the same was written
mala fide for a collateral purpose, namely, to bypass Article 222 and
confront the Chief Justice of India with a fait accompli when the proposal
to transfer such Judge would be forwarded to him; further to exercise the
power of appointing Additional Judges not for the purpose for which that
power has been conferred but for the purpose of carrying out the so-called
"policy" of the Government is also mala fide in the sense that the power is
being exercised for a collateral purpose foreign to the purpose indicated
in article 224. Fifthly, the petitioners have contended that the Circular
letter, under which absolute power and discretion is claimed to the effect
that there is no obligation on the part of the Union Government to continue
the sitting Additional Judges after the expiry of their initial term
notwithstanding pendency of arrears of work or to make them permanent as
and when permanent vacancies become available and to appoint different
persons for different periods as Additional Judges in the vacancies of
sitting Additional Judges after their initial terms have expired, is a
clear abuse of the power conferred by article 224(1) of the Constitution,
because the power being purposive is coupled with a duty to exercise the
same when the conditions precedent mentioned in the provision exist and the
Circular letter which claims such absolute power is violative of the
provisions of Article 224; in any case the course proposed in the said
Circular letter in exercise of such absolute power claimed thereunder is
contrary to the established constitutional convention and practice
(specified later) that has grown over the years in the matter of
appointment of Additional Judges and confirming them as Permanent Judges
and, therefore, bad in law inasmuch as Article 224(1) has been interpreted
and worked having regard to the said convention and practice. Sixthly, the
petitioners have contended that the Circular letter is violative of Article
14 inasmuch as it makes invidious discrimination against those who would be
refusing to furnish their consent as they will suffer a disadvantage, while
those who would be furnishing their consent will be at an advantage and
even within the class of those who would be furnishing their consent it
gives to the Government unfettered and unguided power or discretion to pick
and choose i.e. select some for being shifted to High Courts other than
their home-State High Courts and to retain and appoint others in their
home-State High Courts - which power can be exercised either by way of
punishment or by way of favouritism; and in this behalf reliance is placed
on the Law Minister's statement made in Parliament in response to a Calling
Attention Motion by some Hon'ble Members on April 16, 1981 to the effect
"it is not the intention of the Government to appoint all Additional Judges
to outside Courts" . Without prejudice to these contentions, it is lastly
contended by the petitioners that in the appointment of Additional Judges
of one High Court as Permanent Judges of another High Court or in the
appointments of the Members of the Bar practising in one High Court as
Additional or Permanent Judges of another High Court pursuant to the
consent obtained under the said Circular letter, the consultation with the
Governor of that other State and particularly with the Chief Justice of
that other High Court would be illusory and an empty formality and as such
the said Circular letter is violative of Article 217 of the Constitution.
For these reasons the petitioners have prayed for the quashing of the said
Circular letter as also of the consent, if any, obtained thereunder, as
being illegal, unconstitutional and void and its withdrawal, non-use and
non-implementation by the Government. 604. As regards short-term extensions for three months, six months or a
year granted to sitting Additional Judges upon the expiry of their initial
term, which have become a frequent phenomenon after the issuance of the
Circular letter dated March 18, 1981, the petitioners have contended that
such short-term extensions are directly subversive of the independence of
Judiciary and not contemplated by the Constitution. According to the
petitioners the power to appoint an Additional Judge "for such period not
exceeding two years as the President may specify" in Article 224(1) has
invariably been exercised by appointing Additional Judges initially for a
period of two years, which has come to be regarded as the 'normal term',
that when the said period is about to expire if there is no vacancy of a
Permanent Judge in that Court it has been the practice to continue such
Judges for a further term of two years and if a permanent vacancy arises to
confirm the seniormost among them as a Judge of that High Court. The
petitioners have contended that such a constitutional convention and
practice has grown over the years and the provisions of Article 224(1) have
been worked in accordance with such convention and practice. It is further
pointed out that when a member of the Bar is appointed as an Additional
Judge of a High Court an undertaking is usually given by him to the Chief
Justice that if and when a Permanent Judgeship of the Court is offered to
him he will accept it but if he declines to do so he will not practice
before that High Court or any Court or Tribunal subordinate to it; (at any
rate, such an undertaking is obtained in the Bombay High Court); the
postulate of such undertaking is that an Additional Judge appointed from
the Bar should not be allowed to revert to the Bar and, far from being
dropped, will be offered a permanent vacancy as and when it arises in that
court. In other words a member of the Bar who accepts the appointment of an
Additional Judge has legitimate expectation that he will be confirmed as
Permanent Judge of that High Court when a vacancy occurs and in the past he
has been confirmed except in the rarest of cases. According to the
petitioners the power claimed under Article 224(1) not to continue the
Additional Judge, even if temporary increase in the Court's business
persists or pendency of arrears justifies such continuance, after the
expiry of the initial term and not to make him permanent even if a vacancy
of permanent post occurs and to appoint another person as Additional Judge
by ignoring the legitimate expectancy of the sitting incumbent whose
initial term has expired, apart from involving an unjustified departure
from the well-recognised and established practice, amounts to breach of
faith with the concerned Judge and further to ask such Additional Judge who
has given such undertaking to agree in advance to a transfer (or even to
accept fresh appointment) to other High Courts as a Permanent Judge also
involves similar breach of faith with that Judge; such departure and breach
of faith amounts to a clear abuse of power and the purported exercise of
the power in that manner would be illegal and void. So also the claim made
by the Government that Article 224(1) only fixes the maximum period of two
years at a time, that the article does not limit the discretion of the
Government in the matter of the period for which an Additional Judge can be
appointed except in regard to the ceiling of two years, and that the
appointment can be for a shorter period and that period is not justiciable
is untenable in law and clearly wrong because, apart from involving an
unjustified departure from the well recognized and established practice, it
introduces an element of insecurity of tenure having serious repercussions
on the independence of Judiciary and also undermines people's confidence
and faith in it. 605. It may be stated that the petitioners have cited specific instances of
Additional Judges having been granted short-term extensions for three
months, six months or a year in Allahabad, Bombay and Delhi High Courts and
have also cited instances of Additional Judges being dropped in the
purported exercise of such absolute power claimed under Article 224(1). Grievance has specifically been made in respect of the individual cases of
three Judges of the Delhi High Court : (a) Mr. Justice O. N. Vohra (as he
then was), (b) Mr. Justice S. N. Kumar (as he then was) and (c) Mr. Justice
S. B. Wad. It is pointed out that these three Judges were initially
appointed with effect from March 7, 1979 as Additional Judges in the Delhi
High Court for a term of two years but on the expiry of the said initial
term each one of them was granted a short-term extension of three months
with effect from March 7, 1981 and at the expiry of their said period of
three months on June 6, 1981 the first two have been dropped outright and
Mr. Justice Wad has been granted an extension for a further period of one
year with effect from June 7, 1981. Such short-term extensions for three
months granted to all the three after the expiry of their initial term of
two years, as also the short-term extension of one year granted to Justice
Wad with effect from June 7, 1981 have been challenged as being illegal and
unconstitutional and the outright dropping of the first two Judges has been
challenged also on the ground of mala fides both legal and factual in
Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981; however, relief is claimed only in respect
of the dropping of Mr. S. N. Kumar and not of Mr. O. N. Vohra. 606. In the context of their challenge to short-term extensions the
petitioners have submitted that Article 216 of the Constitution casts a
primary obligation upon the President mandatorily to provide adequate
strength of permanent Judges to cope with the normal business in every High
Court so as to ensure its disposal within reasonable time and to review
such strength from time to time so that arrears do not accumulate and
justice to litigants is not unduly delayed, while the power to appoint
Additional Judges under Article 224(1) [ a provision substituted in its
present form by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 ] and the
exercise thereof are only dependent upon the fulfilment of either of the
two conditions mentioned therein, namely, (a) temporary increase in the
business of a High Court or (b) arrears of work therein; and it is only
upon the fulfilment of either one or the other or both the conditions in a
High Court that the President can appoint duly qualified persons to be
Additional Judges of that Court for such period not exceeding two years as
he may specify, but if the said conditions are not fulfilled and the
objective facts unmistakably demonstrate that the increase of business is
not of a temporary character but is a permanent increase every year or that
the arrears have increased and accumulated to an appreciably disturbing
level with no reasonable prospects of substantially reducing the same over
a period of years, the President cannot resort to Article 224(1) but has to
increase the permanent strength by making permanent appointments under Article 217. In any case Additional Judges cannot be appointed while
keeping permanent posts vacant as is happening at present frequently. The
petitioners have further submitted that in view of undisputed data of the
regular increase in the normal business of almost all High Courts and the
mounting arrears therein - a reality being within the knowledge of the
President - the decision to keep a large number of sitting Judges as
Additional Judges would be arbitrary and unconstitutional and clear case
exists for declaring them to be deemed to have become permanent or
directing the President to make them permanent by appropriately increasing
permanent strength in the concerned High Courts and this Court should pass
appropriate orders in this behalf. 607. The contesting respondents (who are mainly the Union of India and the
Union Law Minister) through counter-affidavits filed by Shri K. C. Kankan,
Deputy Secretary, Department of Justice, Ministry of Law, Justice and
Company Affairs, have resisted the writ petitions on several grounds. In
the first place it is contended that the petitioners (barring Shri S. N.
Kumar who as party-respondent in Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 has
supported the challenge and sought reliefs) who are legal practitioners
have no direct interest in the subject-matter of the writ petitions and
cannot be regarded as the persons aggrieved by the impugned actions of the
Government and therefore have no locus standi and as such the petitions are
liable to be dismissed. Secondly, it is contended that though Shri S. N.
Kumar could be regarded as a person aggrieved by the impugned actions of
the Government, he being a sitting Additional Judge from whom consent under
the Circular letter was sought and was granted a short-term extension, his
tenure having come to an end by efflux of the period for which he was
appointed he is no longer concerned with the impugned Circular letter or
with the short-term that had been granted to him and after he has ceased to
be a Judge of the Delhi High Court he does not have any vested or
enforceable right against the President or the Union Government in the
matter of either continuation as an Additional Judge or appointment as a
Permanent Judge and, therefore, his challenge as a party-respondent to the
government action is not maintainable; in other words, even on the
assumption that the Government's actions are not warranted by the
constitutional provisions, the invalidity or unconstitutionality thereof
does not give any corresponding right to him to sustain the petition; in
any event the tenure fixed by the warrant of his appointment a an
Additional Judge having expired Shri S. N. Kumar has no enforceable right
either to continue as an Additional Judge or to be appointed as Permanent
Judge inasmuch as the power to appoint a person a Judge of a High Court is
discretionary with the President and such discretion cannot be controlled
by judicial review by issuance of a mandamus and he is not entitled to any
relief. 608. As regards the impugned circular letter it is contended that it does
not deal with transfer of sitting Additional Judges or of the proposed
appointees from one High Court to another nor does it seek to obtain
consent for such transfer but in relation to sitting Additional Judges it
seeks to obtain their consent for being appointed as permanent Judges to
another High Court and in relation to the proposed appointees it seeks to
obtain their consent for their initial appointment (either as Additional or
Permanent) to a High Court other than their home-State High Court and the
action proposed to be taken thereunder is for purposes of Article 217 of
the Constitution; it is the case of the contesting respondents that when an
Additional Judge on the expiry of his initial term or extended term is
appointed as a Permanent Judge it is a fresh appointment by warrant under Article 217 and there is no question of any transfer being involved in such
a case and obviously in the case of a proposed appointee (either from the
Bar or Services) when he is being initially appointed there is no question
of any transfer in his case either; in other words, according to the
contesting respondents Article 222(1) of the Constitution is not attracted
at all and as such there is no question of the circular letter violating
the requirements of the said article, much less there being any intention
on the part of the contesting respondents either to bypass Article 222(1) or to reduce the efficacy of consultation of the Chief Justice of India
contemplated therein in any manner. It is emphatically denied that any mass
transfers or individual transfers based on any policy decision are being
effected under the impugned circular letter. It is denied that the circular
letter is intended to affect the independence of the judiciary in any
manner or that the circular letter contains any threat of the type
suggested or at all to the sitting Additional Judges while seeking their
consent. It is also denied that the consent that is sought to be obtained
under the circular letter is being obtained under threat, coercion or
duress or that the same is in abstract and it is pointed out that for
making fresh appointments of sitting Additional Judges, after the expiry of
their term, to another High Court and for making initial appointments of
the proposed appointees to a High Court other than their home-State High
Court their consent would naturally be required under Article 217 and it is
such consent that is being obtained from them under the circular letter. It
is further denied that the statement contained in para 3 of the circular
letter shows that there is no justification for writing the said letter at
all or that the same was written mala fide for collateral purposes as
suggested or otherwise; it is pointed out that the legal and constitutional
position even before the sending of the circular letter was that there was
no commitment on the part of the Government to appoint every Additional
Judge as the permanent Judge and the true purport of para 3 of the said
letter is that the furnishing of consent will not change that position and
will not now imply a commitment and it was necessary to make the legal and
constitutional position clear lest a different impression was created as
also to avoid any legal arguments based on the theory of promissory
estoppel. According to the contesting respondents it is for the purpose of
implementing the policy of having one-third of the Judges of a High Court
from outside that the circular letter has been issued and it is a
preliminary step in the direction of obtaining and collecting data and
information from persons who would be willing to get appointed in other
High Courts so that such information could be made available to the Chief
Justice of India as also to the State authorities and the Chief Justices of
the concerned High Courts for effective consultation as envisaged in Article 217 and as such the circular letter is perfectly legal and within
the authority of law. It is denied that the circular letter confers
unbridled or unguided power on the Executive to pick and choose certain
Judges for being transferred or shifted to other High Courts; it is pointed
out that such a contention is wholly misconceived for two reasons, namely,
that the letter does not speak of transfers at all but appointments to
other High Courts and secondly it cannot arm the Executive with any powers,
for whatever powers the Executive has are derived from the provisions of
the Constitution and that the Law Minister's statement in the Parliament on
April 16, 1981 has to be understood in the context in which it was made. It
is further denied that in appointing Additional Judges of one High Court as
permanent Judges of another High Court or in appointing Members of the Bar
practising in one High Court as Additional or permanent Judges of another
High Court pursuant to the consent given under the circular letter, the
consultation with the Governor of that other State or with the Chief
Justice of that other High Court would become illusory or an empty
formality because the data and particulars of the person proposed to be
appointed collected from other sources can and would be made available to
the Governor of that other State as also to the Chief Justice of that other
High Court and it is not the requirement of Article 217 that the
constitutional functionaries mentioned therein should be aware of such data
and particulars of their personal knowledge; in fact, even the Chief
Justice of the home-State High Court, it is conceivable, may not have
personal Knowledge in that behalf and may have to collect the data and
particulars from other sources. In other words, it is contended that if the
data and particulars of the person proposed to be appointed is collected by
a Chief Justice from other sources, his advice does not become illusory or
an empty formality and as such the circular letter cannot be said to be
violative of Article 217. 609. As regards short-term extensions for three months, six months, or a
year granted to siting Additional Judges upon the expiry of the initial
term and the other submissions made by the petitioners in regard to the
President's power under Articles 216 , 217 and 224(1) the contesting
respondents have relied upon the provisions of these articles for their
true and proper construction; according to them reading Articles 217(1) and 224(1) together the position in law is clear that no Additional Judge has
any legal or constitutional right to be continued as an Additional Judge on
the expiry of his initial or extended term or to be made a permanent Judge
even if a vacancy occurs in a permanent post in his High Court. Strictly
speaking, the tenure of an Additional Judge is fixed by the warrant of his
appointment and on the expiry of the period mentioned in the warrant he
ceases to be a Judge of the High Court and in either extending Him for a
further term as an Additional Judge in the same High Court or in making him
permanent in the vacancy in a permanent post, a fresh appointment is
involved, and the consultative process envisaged in Article 217(1) is
attracted; in other words he is in the same position as a proposed
appointee for initial appointment and the same position obtains if it is
intended to make him a permanent Judge in some other High Court. It is
further contended that the provisions of the concerned articles being very
clear and unambiguous no convention or practice that might have grown in
the matter of appointment of Additional Judges and confirming them as
permanent Judges (which is denied) can alter or affect the interpretation
of the said provisions. Even an undertaking of the type indicated by the
petitioners if obtained from a member of the Bar while appointing him as an
Additional Judge cannot affect the true meaning and construction of the
concerned provisions. It is further contended that assuming (without
admitting) that an Additional Judge of a High Court gives the kind of
undertaking mentioned by the petitioners, particularly of the type that is
said to be usually obtained from him in the Bombay High Court, no
illegality takes place in asking him if he would agree to be appointed as a
permanent Judge in any other High Court, as he shall be so appointed only
in pursuance of his consent. It is further contended that if on true
construction of these two articles it is clear that an Additional Judge has
no vested legal or constitutional right to be continued or to become
permanent then it must be open to the President to appoint different
persons, who are fully qualified, to be Additional Judges during different
periods for disposing of the arrears, though such appointment will have to
be necessarily made in accordance with the constitutional requirements of Article 217. The contesting respondents have contended that the volume of
work in a High Court is of relevance in deciding whether Additional Judges
should be appointed and the same is of no relevance with regard to a
particular person to be appointed. Regarding short-term extensions that
were granted it is explained that they became necessary pending completion
of inquiries into the complaints that had been received against the
concerned Additional Judges and the constitutional functionaries desired to
satisfy themselves in that behalf before taking a final view. As regards
the individual cases of the three Judges of the Delhi High Court it is
pointed out that so far as Justice Wad is concerned he has now been granted
a long term of one year with effect from June 7, 1981 and he can have no
grievance and as regards the outright dropping of Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri
S. N. Kumar it is denied that the same is illegal or unconstitutional or
mala fide either in law or in fact; and it is pointed out that since Shri
Vohra is not seeking any relief before the Court the action of dropping him
need not be pronounced upon by this Court and so far as Shri S. N. Kumar is
concerned, action being proper no relief can be granted to him. It is
disputed that this Court can grant the relief by way of declaring the
sitting Additional Judges to be deemed to have become permanent or by
directing the President to make them permanent by appropriately increasing
the permanent strength in the concerned High Courts. 610. As stated at the outset by these writ petitions filed under Article
226 of the Constitution the legality or constitutionality of the two
actions of the Union Government, namely, the issuance of the circular
letter dated March 18, 1981 and the grant of short-term extensions to
sitting Additional Judges in various High Courts, is being challenged and
the first question raised by the contesting respondents relates to the
locus standi of the petitioners, who are legal practitioners in Allahabad,
Bombay and Delhi High Courts, to maintain their petitions seeking relief
against these two impugned actions. In my view the question of locus standi
of the petitioners in these cases has become academic inasmuch as
admittedly in the writ petition filed by Shri Tarkunde in Delhi High Court
(being Writ Petition No. 882 of 1981) Mr. Justice S. N. Kumar (as he then
was), impleaded as a party-respondent, has supported the challenge and
sought reliefs in respect of these impugned actions and as such the
challenges made will have to be gone into and decided by this Court. In the
case of Dwarkadas Shrinivas v. Sholapur Spinning & Weaving Co. Ltd. the
constitutionality of the impugned Ordinance 2 of 1950 as well as of the Act
28 of 1950 which replaced it, whereunder the management of the mills was
taken over and run by the directors appointed by the Central Government,
was challenged by Shri Dwarkadas Srinivas (plaintiff), a preference share-
holder of the Company and he also sought relief by quashing the demand made
for calls in respect of unpaid share capital by the nominated directors; a
contention was raised about the locus standi of the plaintiff to maintain
the suit on the ground that it was the company who ought to have filed the
suit as it was affected by the impugned Ordinance and the Act. This Court
took the view that the contention was of no avail because the company had
been impleaded as a defendant to the suit and its old directors had made an
application to the Court supporting the case of the plaintiff on the ground
that the ordinance and the Act were void as they infringed the company's
fundamental right under Article 31(2) of the Constitution. At page 714 of
the Report Justice Mahajan (as he then was), who delivered the main
judgment of the Court, observed thus :I am further of the opinion that the
question of the locus standi of the plaintiff to raise the plea that the
Ordinance being void against the company the directors had no authority to
make the call, is really of academic interest in this case because here the
company has been impleaded as a defendant. Its old directors have made an
application to this court supporting the case of the plaintiff on the
ground that the Ordinance is void as it infringes the company's fundamental
right under Article 31(2). In view of this legal position the learned Attorney-General for the Union
of India made a statement at the Bar that he would not be pressing the
contention relating to locus standi of the petitioners. However, counsel
for the Union Law Minister, one of the contesting respondents, argued the
contention at great length, by referring to a large number of decided cases
English, American and Indian as well as by relying on passages and extracts
from treatises of well-known authors, on the ground that in the other three
writ petitions none of the concerned sitting Additional Judges had come
forward to support the challenge and the maintainability of these writ
petitions will have to be decided by this Court. Since the said contention
has been fully and elaborately discussed and dealt with by my Brother
Bhagwati in his judgment, I propose to deal with it very briefly. 611. Counsel for the Union Law Minister has urged that the petitioners who
are legal practitioners have no direct interest in the subject-matter of
the writ petitions and cannot be regarded as 'person aggrieved' by the two
impugned actions, which really affect, if at all, the sitting Additional
Judges, who would be the aggrieved persons and it is not as if they are
under any disability to approach the Court for redress, as is shown by the
fact that one of them has done so and supported the challenge. It is
contended that though as practising lawyers either in their individual
capacity or as representing some of the Lawyers Associations the
petitioners may be professionally interested in having a fearless and
independent judiciary for proper administration of justice that by itself
is not sufficient to give them the 'standing' to prosecute the petitions
for the reliefs sought, which really concern the sitting Additional Judges
and not the lawyers. It is further submitted that even in 'public interest
litigations', (usually called 'public injury cases') though a liberal
approach is adopted by the Courts to reach all forms of injustice, the
personal injury test is not ruled out but at times the test of 'sufficient
connection' or 'special interest' is applied but in the instant case the
petitioners neither qualitatively nor quantitatively have sufficient
connection or special interest to prosecute the petitions, the result of
which would not affect them either directly or even indirectly. 612. Since several decisions cited at the Bar on the question of locus
standi show that the attitudes of the Courts in England, United States and
this Country have not been uniform but have varied from case to case any
attempt at laying down a general principle for universal application would
be futile. I would, however, prefer to confine my attention to a few
decisions of this Court, which, according to me, throw sufficient light on
this issue. It may be stated that in two decisions, namely, Adi Pherozshah
Gandhi case ( Adi Pherozshah Gandhi v. H. M. Seervai, Advocate General of
Maharashtra , 
and Dabholkar case ( Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M. V. Dabholkar , the question of
locus standi was considered in the context of the interpretation of the
expression 'person aggrieved' occurring in Sections 37 and 38 of the
Advocates Act of 1961. In the former case, in relation to certain
disciplinary proceedings which had ended in no action being taken against
the advocate concerned, the question was whether the Advocate General of
the State was an 'aggrieved person' within the meaning of Section 37 of the
Act for the purpose of preferring an appeal under that section and this
Court by majority held that he was not and his appeal was incompetent while
the minority took a contrary view. After this decision had been rendered, Sections 37 and 38 (which provided for an appeal to the Bar Council of
India and an appeal to the Supreme Court respectively) of the Act were
amended by expressly giving the right of appeal to the Advocate General and
the Attorney-General suggesting by implication a legislative approval and
acceptance of the minority view in that case . In the latter case, the
errant advocate having succeeded before the Bar Council of India, the State
Bar Council preferred an appeal to this Court under Section 38 and the
question arose whether the State Bar Council was a 'person aggrieved'
within the meaning of Section 38 and a Bench of 7-Judges of this Court held
upon a survey of the provisions of the Act and its scheme and purpose that
the State Bar Council was a 'person aggrieved'. Krishna Iyer, J. while
delivering a concurring judgment quoted with approval Lord Denning's
observations on the Attorney-General's standing in the well-known case of
the attorney-General of the Gambia v. Pierra Sarr N'Jie [1961] A.C. 617 : 613. In Municipal Council, Ratlam v. Vardichand this Court upheld the right of the
residents of a certain locality in Ratlam town to adopt proceedings under Section 133 of the Criminal Procedure Code against the Municipal Council
compelling it to provide certain basic amenities like sanitary facilities
on the roads, public conveniences for slum dwellers who were using the road
for that purpose and to abate nuisance by constructing drain-pipes with
flow of water to wash the filth and stop the stench. While permitting such
legal action ventilating public grievances Krishna Iyer, J. observed thus : 614. In the Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union case (Fertilizer Corpn.
kamger Union v. Union of India , 
the question for consideration was whether the workers in a factory owned
by Government could question the legality and/or validity of the sale of
certain plants and equipment of the factory but the management and though
the Court ultimately did not interfere because it did not find the sale to
be unjust and unfair or mala fide, on the maintainability of the challenge
the Court has made certain observations having a bearing on the aspect of
the workers' locus standi. Chief Justice Chandrachud at SCR page 65 of the
Report has observed thus : (SCC pp. 579-80, para 23)But, we feel concerned
to point out that the maintainability of a writ petition which is
correlated to the existence and violation of a fundamental right is not
always to be confused with the locus to bring a proceeding under Article 32. These two matters often mingle and coalesce with the result that it
becomes difficult to consider them in watertight compartments. The question
whether a person has the locus to file a proceeding depends mostly and
often on whether he possesses a legal right and that right is violated.
But, in an appropriate case, it may become necessary in the changing
awareness of legal rights and social obligations to take a broader view of
the question of locus to initiate a proceeding, be it under Article 226 or
under Article 32 of the Constitution. If public property is dissipated, it
would require a strong argument to convince the court that representative
segments of the public or at lest a section of the public which is directly
interested and affected would have no right to complain of the infraction
of public duties and obligations. Public enterprises are owned by the
people and those who run them are accountable to the people. The
accountability of the public sector to the Parliament is ineffective
because the parliamentary control of public enterprises is "diffuse and
haphazard". We are not too sure if we would have refused relief to the
workers if we had found that the sale was unjust, unfair or mala fide. Since the question as regards 'access to justice', particularly under Article 226 of the Constitution, was dealt with by Krishna Iyer, J. at some
length, Chief Justice Chandrachud did not consider it necessary to dwell
upon that topic. On that aspect Krishna Iyer, J. has at SCR page 74 of the
Report made the following observations : (SCC p. 587, para 43)Public
interest litigation is part of the process of participatory justice and
'standing' in civil litigation of that pattern must have liberal reception
at the judicial doorsteps. The floodgates argument has been nailed by the
Australian Law Reforms Commission : 589, para 48)

If a citizen is no more than a wayfarer or officious intervener without any
interest or concern beyond what belongs to any one of the 660 million
people of this country, the door of the court will not be ajar for him.
But, if he belongs to an organisation which has special interest in the
subject-matter, if he has some concern deeper than that of a busybody, he
cannot be told off at the gates, although whether the issue raised by him
is justiciable may still remain to be considered. I, therefore, take the
view that the present petition would clearly have been permissible under Article 226. 615. In the instant case the impugned circular as well as the short-term
extensions, according to the petitioners, are directly subversive of
judicial independence, which is a basic feature of our Constitution, in the
upholding of which not merely the sitting Additional Judges but also the
lawyers practising in various High Courts are keenly interested. In fact,
in the task of administration of justice the role of Judges and the role of
lawyers are complementary to each other and the practising lawyers as a
class are an integral part of justicing machinery rendering assistance to
the Judges in the discharge of their function of reaching justice to the
litigants appearing before the Courts; in other words the practising
lawyers, who are nothing short of partners in the task of administration of
justice undertaken by the Judges, are vitally interested in the maintenance
of a fearless and an independent judiciary to ensure fair and fearless
justice to the litigants. That being the position, can it be said that the
petitioners either in their individual capacity or as representing some of
the Lawyers' Associations (as is the case in the Bombay petition) are
wayfarers, interlopers, officious interveners or busybodies without any
interest or concern of their own in the subject-matter ? In my view, the
petitioners either in their individual capacity or representing Lawyers'
Association have not merely sufficient interest but special interest of
their own in the subject-matter of the writ petitions and they cannot be
told off at the gates and the petitions at their instance are clearly
maintainable. 616. The next contention urged on behalf of the contesting respondents has
been that though Shri S. N. Kumar could be regarded as a person aggrieved
by the two impugned actions of the Government, he being a sitting
Additional Judge from whom consent under the circular letter was sought and
was also granted a sort-term extension, the issues raised in the case are
not justiciable at his instance, much less at the instance of the
petitioners. The contention is that Shri Kumar's term having come to an end
by efflux of period for which he was appointed he is no longer concerned
with the impugned circular letter nor with the short-term extension that
had been granted to him and after he has ceased to be a Judge of the Delhi
High Court he does not have any vested or enforceable right against the
President or the Union Government in the matter of either continuation as
an Additional Judge or appointment as a permanent Judge and, therefore, his
challenge to the governmental action is not maintainable. In this behalf
counsel contended that in either extending an Additional Judge for a
further term or in making him a permanent Judge in the vacancy of a
permanent post, a fresh appointment is involved by issuance of a fresh
warrant under Article 217(1) and the position of an Additional Judge on the
expiry of his initial or extended term is exactly the same a that of a
proposed candidate for initial appointment in that neither has any
enforceable right to be considered for the post, much less to be appointed
to it. Counsel pointed out that Article 217(1) confers power upon the
President to appoint High Court Judges subject to the consultations
mentioned therein but the President has a discretion in the matter which
cannot be controlled by judicial review by issuance of a mandamus; in any
event, non-appointment of a proposed candidate for initial recruitment or
non-continuance of an Additional Judge on the expiry of his term does not
give rise to any enforceable obligation against the President/Union
Government and in favour of the person who is not appointed or not
continued and, therefore, even a breach of the constitutional mandate, such
as total lack of consultation or lack of full and effective consultation of
consultation getting vitiated by mala fides, merely amounts to a case of
complete non-sequitur. In other words, counsel contended that even on the
assumption that the Government's actions are not warranted by the
constitutional provisions, the invalidity or unconstitutionality thereof
does not give any corresponding right to Shri S. N. Kumar to sustain the
petition. 617. The aforesaid contention of counsel for the contesting respondents
directly raises two questions : (i) whether the proposed appointees (either
from the Bar or Services), who are being recommended for their initial
appointments, and the sitting Additional Judges, whose cases for their
continued appointments either as Additional Judges or as permanent Judges
on the expiry of their initial term are to be decided, stand in the same
class or category or is there any difference - a valid difference between
the two and (ii) whether the non-appointment either at the stage of initial
recruitment or at the stage of continuance furnishes any actionable wrong
for issuance of a mandamus ? In the context of these questions Articles
217(1) and 224(1) will have to be considered. Article 217(1) runs thus : Article 224(1) runs thus : 618. It cannot be disputed that Judges of the High Court occupy a high
constitutional position and a special machinery is provided for their
appointment. For obvious reasons, the post of a High Court Judge is not
filled in by inviting applications through advertisements nor by holding
test interviews; further, the minimum qualifications for appointment as a
Judge (prescribed in sub-article (2) Article 217 ) would be possessed by
numerous advocates and by a fair number of service Judges but even so, the
special machinery for making appointments is indicated in Article 217(1) ,
obviously designed to recruit persons of great ability, high character and
unquestioned integrity to the Bench. All these factors go to show that at
the stage of initial recruitment under Article 217(1) , no one has a right
to be appointed a Judge of the High Court nor the right to be considered
for such appointment and, therefore, it does appear that a writ of mandamus
at the instance of an aggrieved person would not lie. But at the same time
I am quite sure whether simply because a mandamus directing the President
to reconsider the case of a non-appointment may not lie it would be correct
to say that in the case of non-appointment at the stage of initial
recruitment the mandate of consultation becomes otiose, superficial or
inconsequential, or that a positive breach thereof may not provide any
relief whatever to the aggrieved person but since that question does not
arise in the instant case I would rather leave it open for decision in an
appropriate case and proceed on the basis that a mandamus for
reconsideration of his case would not lie as the aggrieved person does not
have the right to be considered. But question is whether the sitting
Additional Judges, whose continuance either for an extended term or as
permanent Judges is to be determined on the expiry of their initial term,
stand in the same position as that of proposed appointees for initial
appointment ? 619. It is true that, unlike a permanent Judge whose tenure is fixed by
reference to his age, the tenure of an Additional Judge when appointed
under Article 224(1) is fixed by the warrant of his appointment and on the
expiry of the period mentioned in the warrant he ceases to be a Judge of
the High Court. It is also true that his continuance as an Additional Judge
for any further term or as a permanent Judge in the vacancy of a permanent
post cannot be thought of unless for continuance as Additional Judge either
one or the other or both the pre-conditions mentioned in Article 224(1) obtain in that High Court, and for continuance as a permanent Judge the
normal business of the High Court justifies the filling up of the vacancy
in the permanent post. In other words pendency of work must justify such
continuance - temporary increase in the business of the High Court or
arrears of work therein or both for extension of his term and normal
business (current institutions) for making him permanent. The question
whether obtaining of the pre-conditions mentioned in Article 224(1) or the
pendency of normal business is alone enough for such continuance or any
other requirement (suitability as adjudged during the consultation under
sub-article (1) of Article 217 ) is also necessary is a different aspect,
which I propose to deal with later and need not be mixed up with the
question under consideration at the moment. In other words, granted the
pre-conditions in Article 224(1) and also the pendency of the normal
business, the question is whether an Additional Judge whose term is about
to expire has any enforceable right to be considered (even assuming that
suitability is also required to be taken into account at this stage) for
his continuance either as an Additional Judge for a further term or as a
permanent Judge if a vacancy in the permanent post is available ? 620. In order to deal with the aforesaid question, Article 224(1) , inserted
in our Constitution by the 7th Amendment Act, 1956, will have to be
considered in proper perspective having regard to the reasons and purposes
for which and the circumstances in which it came to be enacted. Prior to
that, in the Government of India Act, 1915 the provision to appoint
Additional Judges to any High Court 'as may be required' by the Governor-
General-in-Council was contained in proviso (i) to Section 101(2) while in
the Government of India Act, 1935 the provision was to be found in Section
222(3) which was almost in similar terms as the present article except that
the power was conferred on the Governor-General acting 'in his discretion'.
When the Constitution was framed the provision (Draft Article 199 ) was
deleted because of the strong plea made against it by several Members of
the Constituent Assembly including eminent authorities in this field like
Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru, Shri K. M. Munshi and others, mainly on the ground
that Members of the Bar recruited as Additional Judges will revert to the
Bar on the expiry of their term and such reversion to the Bar was
manifestly dangerous to the fair administration of justice and opposed to
public interest. In 1956 it was felt that the provision for recalling
retired High Court Judges to function on the Bench for short periods
(loosely called ad-hoc Judges) was found to be neither adequate nor
satisfactory and the same (original Article 224 ) was deleted and replaced
by "a provision for appointment of Additional Judges to clear off
arrears"(vide Statement of Objects and Reasons) and the present Article
224(1) came to be enacted. In other words the existence of a large volume
of mounting arrears in several High Courts and the necessity to clear off
the same provided the basis for inserting the provision in the
Constitution. That this is the rationale of the provision for appointment
of Additional Judges has been clearly indicated by the Madras High Court in Kandasami Pillai v. Muthuvenkatahala (1917 33 Mad LJ 787 : 43 IC 850) where
in the context of the provision contained in the Government of India Act,
1915 that Court held thatthe object of the proviso to Section 101(2) of the
Government of India Act, 1915, clearly was to provide for occasions, when
the permanent strength of the High Court is unable to cope with the work of
disposal, but the work is not sufficient to justify the appointment of
another permanent Judge, by enabling Additional Judges to be appointed from
time to time for such fixed periods not exceeding two years as may be found
necessary; the proviso must therefore be read as meaning that appointments
may be made from time to time for such period, not exceeding two years, as
may be required from time to time on each occasion when the power is
exercised. (vide Headnote in the Report)

Thus, the very purpose and raison d'etre of Article 224(1) being the
existence of arrears of work and clearance thereof, it stands to reason
that sitting Additional Judges who have already been selected and appointed
for the very purpose must be considered for continued appointments if the
arrears obtain and go on mounting in their High Courts. 621. Secondly, on a comparison of Articles 216 and 224(1) , it will appear
clear that the former deals with the appointment of permanent Judges to
dispose of the normal business whereas the latter deals with appointment of
Additional Judges whenever there is either a temporary increase in the
normal business of a High Court or arrears of work therein. It seems the
work in a High Court has been classified into three categories, namely : 622., Thirdly, so far as the sitting Additional Judges recruited under Article 224(1) from the Members of the Bar are concerned, they would be
having such legitimate expectancy and the right to be considered for
continuance for two additional reasons, namely : (a) a well-established
constitutional convention or practice has grown over the years since after
the insertion of the provision in the matter of appointment of such
Additional Judges and confirming them as permanent Judges - the convention
or practice being, that notwithstanding the words "for such period not
exceeding two years as the President may specify" occurring in Article
224(1) , the appointing authority has invariably exercised the power under
that Article by appointing Additional Judges initially for a period of two
years, which has come to be regarded as the 'normal term', that when the
said period is about to expire if there is no vacancy of a permanent Judge
in that Court to continue such Judges for a further term of two years and
if a permanent vacancy arises to confirm the seniormost among them as a
Judge of that High Court, and (b) the undertaking taken from them at the
time of their initial appointment that "if and when a permanent Judgeship
of that Court is offered to them they will accept it and not decline the
same." It may be stated that so far as the Bombay High Court is concerned a
further undertaking is obtained by the Chief Justice of that High Court
from such Judges to the further effect that "if they decline to accept such
permanent Judgeship though offered or in case they resign from the office
of Additional Judge even before the question of their confirmation is taken
up they will not practice in the High Court of in any court or tribunal
subordinate to that High Court." It may be pointed out that since 1956
barring very few or exceptional instances the aforesaid convention or
practice has almost invariably been followed and the same has grown out of
two weighty considerations : (i) that it is not in public interest to
permit them to revert to the Bar, and (ii) not to lose or fritter away the
experience and expertise gained by them in administering justice during
their initial term, and as regards the undertaking mentioned above the same
became necessary because at the time of the insertion of Article 224(1) into the Constitution no provision was inserted imposing any ban or
prohibition on practice by such Additional Judges after expiry of their
term, as was thought of in 1949 when Draft Articles 199 (dealing with
Additional Judges) and 196(b) (dealing with ban on their practice) were
considered together and deleted together. It will be pertinent to mention
here that during the Parliamentary debates over the relevant Bill which
sought to introduce Article 224(1) into the Constitution great anxiety was
shown by several Members to see to it that such Additional Judges, when
recruited from the Bar were not permitted to revert to the profession on
the expiry of their term and a categorical suggestion was put forward that
when a Member of the Bar was appointed as an Additional Judge it must be
done with a view to make him permanent in due course and if that was not
possible an Additional Judgeship ship should not be offered to a Member of
the Bar. In fact in Lok Sabha, Shri Tek Chand, M.P. from Ambala-Simla had
opposed the recruitment of any Member of the Bar as an Additional Judge and
suggested that such recruitment should be confined to District Judges,
while in the Rajya Sabha Shri P. N. Sapru from Uttar Pradesh strongly
pleaded that in appointing Additional Judges care should be taken to
appoint Members of the Bar who were not likely to revert to the profession
on the expiry of their term, that is to say "appoint a man whom you are
going to appoint as a permanent man". These views expressed during the
debate on the Bill have been referred to merely to bring out the genesis
out of which the aforesaid convention or practice grew and the undertaking
commenced to be taken from Members of the Bar. Even as late as on June 29,
1967 in a note prepared by him Justice K. N. Wanchoo had also stated thus
:When a Member of the Bar is appointed an Additional Judge, it must be with
a view to make him permanent in due course. If that is not possible,
Additional Judgeship should not be offered to a Member of the Bar. I agree
that an undertaking should be taken from Members of the Bar that they will
accept a permanent Judgeship when offered to them in due course.... (Note
quoted in the Shah Commission's Interim Report-I, para 7.23 at page 52)

If the genesis of the aforesaid convention or practice as well as the
undertaking is nothing but public interest in the sense that public
interest is served : (a) by not permitting them to revert to the Bar on the
expiry of their term, and (b) by not losing or frittering away the
experience or expertise gained by them in administering justice during
their initial term, then it is these very aspects of public interest which
form the compelling reasons to consider their cases for their continuance
either by extending their term or making them permanent in preference to
outsiders or freshers. It is not as if that these two aspects of public
interest giving rise to the convention or practice and the undertaking are
merely factors to be taken into account while deciding upon their
continuance but along with the disability emanating from the undertaking
these aspects confer upon then a legitimate expectancy and the enforceable
right not to be dropped illegally or at the whim or caprice of the
appointing authority but to be considered for such continuance in that High
Court. 623. There has been no answer from the side of the contesting respondents
and in fact it was not disputed by counsel on their behalf that the
practice to appoint every Judge (whether from Bar or Services) initially as
an Additional Judge for two years and then to make him permanent in due
course without considering the question as to which one of the two articles
was attracted has been followed by the appointing authority and therefore,
it is clear that on this ground alone it can be held that the sitting
Additional Judges have an enforceable right not to be dropped illegally or
at the whim or caprice of the appointing authority but to be considered for
their continuance either by extending their term or making them permanent
until this practice is changed and a proper practice is introduced which
can be done only after having made a complete and correct assessment about
the requisite strengths of permanent as well as Additional Judges for every
High Court depending upon statistical data to be collected throwing light
on 'normal business', 'temporary increase' and 'arrears of work' and after
fixing rate of disposal per Judge per year and defining what should be
termed as main cases, miscellaneous cases or interlocutory cases etc. 624. As regards the constitutional convention or practice and the
undertaking which have been pressed into service in relation to Bar
recruits as Additional Judges for basing their right to be considered for
their continuance on the expiry of their initial term, the learned
Attorney-General appearing for the Union of India raised a twofold
contention. Regarding the former he urged that a constitutional convention
or practice, howsoever wholesome, cannot affect, alter or control the plain
meaning of Article 224(1) which according to him gives absolute power and
complete discretion to the President in the matter of continuance of
sitting Additional Judges on the expiry of their initial term, the pendency
of arrears being relevant only for deciding whether or not Additional
Judges should be appointed and not relevant with regard to a particular
person to be appointed. As regards the undertaking he pointed out that the
usual undertaking obtained from a Member of the Bar in all High Courts -
and for that matter even the additional undertaking that is being obtained
in the Bombay High Court if properly read will show that it merely creates
a binding obligation on the concerned Member of the Bar but does not create
any obligation or commitment on the part of the appointing authority to
make the offer of permanent Judgeship to him. It is difficult to accept
either of these contentions of the learned Attorney-General. It was not
disputed before us that constitutional conventions and practices have
importance under unwritten as well as written Constitutions and the
position that conventions have a role to play in interpreting articles of a
Constitution is clear from several decided cases. In U. N. R. Rao v. Indira
GandhiChief
Justice Sikri observed thus : (SCC p. 64, para 3)It was said that we must
interpret Article 75(3) according to its own terms regardless of the
conventions that prevail in the United Kingdom. If the words of an Article
are clear, notwithstanding any relevant convention, effect will no doubt be
given to the words. But it must be remembered that we are interpreting a
Constitution and not an Act of Parliament, a Constitution which establishes
a Parliamentary system of Government with a Cabinet. In trying to
understand one may well keep in mind the conventions prevalent at the time
the Constitution was framed. In State of Rajasthan v. Union of India also the importance of a constitutional
convention or practice by way of crystallising the otherwise vague and
loose content of a power to be found in certain article has been
emphasized. In the State of W.B. v. Nripendra Nath Bagchi the
entire interpretation of the concept of 'vesting of control' over District
Courts and Courts subordinate thereto in the High Court was animated by
conventions and practices having regard to the history, object and purpose
that lay behind the group of relevant articles, the principal purpose
being, the securing of the independence of the subordinate judiciary. It is
true that no constitutional convention or practice can affect, alter or
control the operation of any article if its meaning is quite plain and
clear but here Article 224(1) merely provides for situations when
Additional Judges from duly qualified persons could be appointed to a High
Court and at the highest reading the article with Section 14 of the General
Clauses Act it can be said that the power conferred by that article may be
exercised from time to time a occasion requires but on the question as to
whether when the occasion arises to make appointment on expiry of the term
of a sitting Additional Judge whether he should be continued or a fresher
or outsider could be appointed by ignoring the erstwhile incumbent even
when arrears continue to obtain in that High Court the article is silent
and not at all clear and hence the principle invoked by the learned
Attorney-General will not apply. On the other hand, it will be proper to
invoke in such a situation the other well-settled principle that in
construing a constitutional provision the implications which arise from the
structure of the Constitution itself or from its scheme may legitimately be
made and looking at Article 224(1) from this angle a wholesome
constitutional convention of practice that has grown because of such
implications will have to be borne in mind especially when it serves to
safeguard one of the basic features which is the cardinal faith underlying
our Constitution, namely, independence of the judiciary. In other words a
limitation on the otherwise absolute power and discretion contained in Article 224(1) is required to be read into it because of the clear
implication arising from the said cardinal faith which forms a fundamental
pillar supporting the basic structure of the Constitution, as otherwise the
exercise of the power in the absolute manner as suggested will be
destructive of the same. That it is not sound approach to embark upon 'a
strict literal reach' of any constitutional provision in order to determine
its true ambit and effect is strikingly illustrated in the case of Article
368 which came up for consideration before this Court in Kesavananda
Bharati case (1973 Supp SCR 1 : )
where this Court held that the basic or essential features of the
Constitution do act as fetters or limitations on the otherwise wide
amending power contained in that article. In Australia limitations on the
law-making powers of the Parliament of the Federal Commonwealth over the
States were read into the concerned provisions of the Constitution because
of implications arising from the very federal nature of the Constitution : Counsel for the contesting respondents refuted each one of the grounds
urged by the petitioners in support of their objection to bringing in the
consultative process inclusive of suitability again at the stage of
reappointment of the sitting Additional Judges. Regarding the aspect of
probation, counsel accepted the position that Additional Judges are not and
cannot be said to be on probation but according to him what is meant by
that is that, unlike a probationer who is liable to be removed during his
probationary period if he is found unfit or unsuitable and who is confirmed
only upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the siting
Additional Judges, not being on probation, have an indefeasible tenure
though for short periods fixed in their warrants of appointment and during
the fixed tenure they can be removed only by following their regular
process laid down in the Constitution, and Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 ; any
further appointment is always the result of a fresh consideration and fresh
consultation with the consulting functionaries mentioned in Article 217(1). To suggest that they should be reappointed as a matter of course if the
pre-conditions of Article 224(1) subsist or pendency of work justifies
their confirmation and then take steps for their removal under Article
124(4) and (5) read with Article 218 and Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 would
be manifestly unsound, if not absurd. Counsel disputed that if as a result
of the consultative process undertaken they are dropped it amounts to their
removal because, according to him, it becomes a case of non-appointment
after their initial term has expired. Counsel strenuously disputed that
bringing in the process of consultation under Article 217(1) inclusive of
suitability again at the stage of reappointment would affect the quality or
character of justice administered by them during their initial term or
towards the end of their term as suggested' by the petitioners and no
question of any violation of Article 14 or 21 is involved and the two
decisions relied upon by counsel for the petitioners do not support that
contention. 627. I have already come to the conclusion that there is a valid
classification between the proposed appointees for initial recruitment and
the sitting Additional Judges whose cases for their continuance on the
expiry of their initial term are to be decided and have further held that
unlike the former the latter have a legitimate expectancy and an
enforceable right not to be dropped illegally or at the whim or caprice of
the appointing authority and to be considered for their continuance either
as Additional Judges or as permanent Judges in their High Court. From this
conclusion certain consequences logically ensue. First, if the sitting
Additional Judges have this enforceable right to be considered for their
continuance, it must follow that the eventual non-continuance, if any, can
become a justiciable issue open to judicial review, if such non-continuance
is based on extraneous or non-germane consideration or is mala fide in law
or in fact, and in that sense it will not be a case of non-appointment as
is the case qua the proposed appointees at the stage of their initial
recruitment. Secondly, it also follows that in substance and reality in
extending their term or making them permanent in their High Court no 'fresh
appointment' in the sense of initial or fresh recruitment is involved,
except for the formality of issuing a fresh warrant of appointment and
taking a fresh oath. If that be the correct position then all the
submissions made on behalf of the contesting respondents on the basis that
granting them extension or making them permanent involves a 'fresh
appointment' must be rejected and logically speaking the consultative
process insofar as suitability under article 217(1) is concerned is not
attracted at all. 628. Even so, in view of the aspects of public interest that have been
pressed into service, the question may be considered as to whether, when
their continuance on the expiry of their initial term is being determined,
the test of suitability under the consultative process of Article 217(1) should be invoked or gone through afresh ? The question thus posed assumes
great significance but is ticklish and defies easy solution in view of the
cogent and almost convincing rival submissions made on either side as
summarized above but the answer to the same will have to be found only on
objective considerations. At the outset it may be stated that it was not
disputed before us that sitting Additional Judges are not on probation and
cannot be regarded or dealt with as probationers. Question is what is the
implication of admitting the position that "an Additional Judge is not a
Judge on probation" as has been done by Shri Kankan in his counter-
affidavit dated July 22, 1981 (filed in the Transfer Case No. 20 of 1981) ?
It is true as has been pointed out by the learned Attorney-General that
they are not probationers in the sense that they have an indefeasible
tenure though for the periods fixed in their warrants of appointment and
that during such fixed tenure, like the permanent Judges, they can be
removed only by following the regular process for it as indicated in the Constitution and Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 but in the context of their
having an enforceable right not to be dropped illegally and to be
considered for their continuance, will it be possible to confine the
concept of probation to these two aspects mentioned by him ? Does it mean
that for deciding upon their continuance they should be treated as on
probation ? The learned Attorney-General did not mince words when he
contended they they should pass the test of suitability again at the time
of deciding upon their continuance because he asserted that what has
happened in the meantime during their short tenure (meaning their work,
performance and behaviour as throwing light on their capacity, character,
integrity and fitness) should be taken into consideration. It cannot be
disputed that aspects like slow disposal, unsatisfactory performance,
inefficiency, incompetency, suspected misbehaviour and/or reported lack of
integrity - all converge on suitability and therefore all these will have
to be taken into consideration as suggested by him. However, the full
implication of the admission made on behalf of the contesting respondents
is that Additional Judges are not appointed to try out their fitness
pending their further continuance either as Additional Judges or as
permanent Judges; they are appointed, having passed the suitability test at
the initial stage, to dispose cases instituted in the High Court in
accordance with their oath "without fear or favour, affection or ill will" 629. However, the third ground of objection to bringing in the consultative
process covering suitability under Article 217(1) at the stage of deciding
upon their continuance does not impress me much. It is difficult to accept
the contention that bringing in the suitability test under Article 217(1) at that stage is bound to affect the quality or character of justice
administered by the sitting Additional Judges during their initial term or
towards the end of their term. In fact, so far on every occasion the
consultative process inclusive of the suitability test under Article 217(1) has been resorted to while considering the question of granting extension
to the Additional Judges or making them permanent on the expiry of their
initial term and no one has suggested that because of this their work,
performance or behaviour was or has been guided by the anxiety to keep
themselves on the right side of the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
Chief Justice of India or the appointing authority. Instances are not
wanting when within the first few days of their assuming office they have
delivered judgments dissenting from their Chief Justice as also of having
rendered decisions unpalatable to the executive when their term was about
to expire. If the basic assumption made while putting forward the argument
is not well founded then there will be no question of any violation of Articles 14 and 21 being involved. The two decisions on which reliance has
been placed also do not support the contention urged on behalf of the
petitioners. In the former decision Prakash Chandra case though the Chief Justice's order
transferring the election petition from a permanent Judge and allocating it
to an ad hoc Judge appointed under Article 224-A was set aside on the facts
of the case, this Court at page 215 of the Report observed thus : (SCC p.
137, para 23)It seems indeed that election petitions should ordinarily, if
possible, be entrusted for trial to a permanent Judge of the High Court
even though we find that Additional or acting Judges or those requested
under Article 224-A of the Constitution to sit and act as Judges of the
High Court, if assigned for the purpose by the Chief Justice, are legally
competent to hear those matters. If anything the observation suggests is that there is nothing illegal or
improper if Additional or acting or ad hoc Judges hear and dispose of
elections petitions, though in that particular case because of 'special
facts and circumstances' obtaining therein the Chief Justice's order was
interfered with. In the other case (In re The Special Courts Bill, Clause 7 of
the Special Courts Bill provided the Special Courts were to be presided
over either by a sitting Judge of a High Court or by a person who had held
the office of a Judge of a High Court to be nominated by the Central
Government in consultation with the Chief Justice of India and this Court
pointed out a couple of infirmities in that clause, namely, a retired Judge
of the High Court unlike a sitting Judge did not enjoy security of tenure
and would be holding his office as a Judge of the Special Court during the
pleasure of the Government and it was conceivable that such a Judge
presiding over the Special Court, if he displayed strength and independence
might be frowned upon by the Government and there was nothing to prevent
the Government from terminating his appointment as and when it liked. It
was further pointed out that though his appointment was required to be made
in consultation with the Chief Justice of India there was nothing in the
Bill to show that his termination will also require similar consultation
and even if it were assumed that such consultation would be made even for
his termination the process of consultation, with its own limitations,
would be a poor consolation to an accused whose life and honour was at
stake. It is true that these infirmities in Clause 7 of the Bill were
pointed out by this Court to emphasize the aspect that appointing a retired
High Court Judge as a Judge of the Special Court who is to be nominated by
the Central Government to try a special class of cases may not inspire
confidence not only in the accused but in the entire community. It is also
true that on these infirmities being pointed out the then Central
Government accepted the suggestion of the Court that only a sitting Judge
of a High Court would be appointed to preside over a Special Court and that
such appointment will be made with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of
India. However, all these observations and views that emerge from the
opinion or advice which this Court gave to the President in a Reference
under Article 143(1) of the Constitution, on which counsel for the
petitioners placed great reliance, must be understood in the context of the
Special Courts Bill which had been drafted by the then Central Government
for the purpose of trial of special type of offences allegedly committed by
persons holding high public or political offices in the country in the
peculiar circumstances that obtained during the last emergency and for some
period prior thereto, under which a special expeditious procedure for trial
other than the normal procedure contained in the Criminal Procedure Code had been prescribed and those observations and views, therefore, would be
inapplicable to the issue raised before us, for parity of reasoning, in the
absence of parity of situation, is of no avail. However, for the reasons
indicated earlier, in my view, at the time of deciding upon the continuance
of the sitting Additional Judges on the expiry of their initial term the
consultative process should be confined only to see whether the pre-
conditions mentioned in Article 224(1) exist or not or whether pendency of
work justifies their confirmation or not and the test of suitability
contemplated within the consultative process under Article 217(1) cannot
and should not be resorted to at all. 630. The next question that requires consideration is whether in the
consultative process contemplated by article 217(1) is any primacy intended
to be given to the views or advice to be tendered by the Chief Justice of
India in the matter of appointment of a High Court Judge or whether from
amongst the three consulting functionaries the President (appointing
authority) is entitled to choose or prefer the views or advice of anyone to
those of the other or others ? It may be stated that this question really
arises only in regard to the views or advice tendered on the suitability
aspect and not on the aspect touching the existence of the pre-conditions
of Article 224(1) or pendency of work justifying confirmation, because the
former aspect is a matter of subjective assessment while the latter depends
on objective facts over which no difference is likely to arise. I would
also like to observe that the aforesaid question cannot at all arise in
view of my conclusion that the test of suitability falling within the
consultative process under Article 217(1) cannot and should not be resorted
to, while deciding upon the continuance of sitting Additional Judges.
Obviously the question cannot arise in cases of non-appointments qua
proposed appointees at the time of their initial recruitment, for such non-
appointments are cases of non-sequitur. My conclusion thus completely
obviates the dilemma posed in the question. However, I shall be considering
this question on the assumption that I am wrong in my view that the test of
suitability is not attracted and should not be invoked at the time of
deciding upon the continuance of the sitting Additional Judges. The
question of primacy obviously has to be considered by keeping in mind the
object or purpose of providing for such consultation which was explained by
Dr. Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly thus :There can be no difference
of opinion in the House that our judiciary must both be independent of the
executive and must also be competent in itself. And the questions is how
these two objects could be secured. There are two different ways in which
this matter is governed in other countries.... (Here follows a reference to
the practices obtaining in Great Britain and the United States).... The
Draft Article, therefore, steers a middle course. It does not make the
President the supreme and the absolute authority in the matter of making
appointments. It does not also import the influence of the Legislature. The
provision in the article is that there should be consultation of persons
who are ex hypothesi, well qualified to give proper advice in matters of
this sort, and my judgment is that this sort of provision may be regarded
as sufficient for the moment. With regard to the question of the concurrence of the Chief Justice, it
seems to me that those who advocate that proposition seem to rely
implicitly both on the impartiality of the Chief Justice and the soundness
of his judgment. I personally feel no doubt that the Chief Justice is a
very eminent person. But after all, he Chief Justice is a man with all the
failings, all the sentiments and all the prejudices which we as common
people have; and I think, to allow the Chief Justice practically a veto
upon the appointment of judges is really transfer the authority to the
Chief Justice which we are not prepared to vest in the President or the
Government of the day. I therefore, think that, that is also a dangerous
proposition. (Vide Constituent Assembly Debates, 1949, Vol. 8, page 258)

In other words the object of providing for such consultation clearly is
that the same should act as a controlling or limiting factor on the
discretion vested in the President while performing his executive function
of making appointment of High Court Judges and neither the President nor
the Chief Justice should have a power to veto a proposal. Further, this
question will have also to be considered in the light of what this Court
has said about the almost binding character of the resultant advice flowing
from the consultative process. In Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , dealing with the efficacy of consultation with the Chief
Justice of India under Article 222(1) Krishna Iyer, J. at SCR page 502 of
the Report, observed : (SCC p. 274, para 115)It must also be borne in mind
that if the Government departs from the opinion of the Chief Justice of
India it has to justify its action by giving cogent and convincing reasons
for the same and, if challenged, to prove to the satisfaction of the Court
that a case was made out for not accepting the advice of the Chief Justice
of India... Of course, the Chief Justice has no power of veto, as Dr.
Ambedkar explained in the Constituent Assembly. In Samsher Singh case (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, the Court was dealing with
consultation with the High Court under Article 234 read with Article 235 and in that behalf Krishna Iyer, J. at SCR page 837 of the Report has
observed : (SCC p. 882, para 149)

In all conceivable cases consultation with that highest dignitary of Indian
justice will and should be accepted by the Government of India and the
Court will have an opportunity to examine if any other extraneous
circumstances have entered into the verdict of the Minister, if he departs
from the counsel given by the Chief Justice of India. In practice the last
word in such a sensitive subject must belong to the Chief Justice of India,
the rejection of his advice being ordinarily regarded as prompted by
oblique considerations vitiating the order. 631. Keeping both the above aspects in mind one has to consider the
question of primacy and in order to consider the same it will be necessary
to set out Article 217(1) which runs thus : Counsel for contesting respondents contended that the President must have
the right to make a choice as no one functionary has been given any primacy
and in support counsel strongly relied upon the fact that during the
constituent assembly debates a specific amendment was moved by Mr. B.
Pocker Saheb from Madras to the original Draft Article 193(1) (which was in
identical terms as the present article insofar as is material) to the
effect that every Judge should be appointed by the President "on the
recommendation of the High Court concerned, after consultation with the
Governor of the State concerned and with the concurrence of the Chief
Justice of India" clearly seeking to give higher importance or status to
the Chief Justice of India in the matter (vide Constituent Assembly
Debates, 1949, Vol. VIII, page 658) but the said amendment was rejected and
the Draft Article became the present Article 217(1). It was urged that the
rejection of the amendment is a clear pointer indicating that the
Constituent Assembly wanted to give coordinate authority to each one of the
three consulting functionaries and no primacy was intended to be given to
the views or advice of any particular functionary. 632. In the first place in the very nature of things it is difficult to
accept the submission that all the three consulting functionaries under Article 217(1) must be regarded as of coordinate authority for the simple
reasons that on aspects like capacity, character, merit, efficiency and
fitness which converge on the suitability of the person proposed for
appointment the Governor of the State will be least informed and will have
nothing to say whereas the Chief Justice of the High Court and Chief
Justice of India, being best informed, are well equipped to express their
views and tender advice; further it is an accepted position which has been
alluded to by the Law Commission in its 14th Report, that it is because of
the financial aspect (salary and emoluments of a High Court Judge being
charged on the Consolidated Fund of the State) and information about the
antecedents, local affiliations and like other matters, capable of
objective proof, concerning the proposed appointee which the State
Executive would be possessing, that consultation with the Governor has been
provided for. It is, therefore, difficult to regard the Governor of the
State as being of coordinate authority with the other two consulting
functionaries especially on the aspect of suitability which is the primary
thing in the matter of making appointment of High Court Judges. Secondly,
in my view, Mr. Pocker Saheb's rejected amendment has nothing to do with
the primacy question at all because it was concerned with the effort at
complete exclusion of the executive interference in the matter of
appointment of the High Court Judges. If the amendment had been accepted
the result would have been that the appointment shall have been made with
the initiation of the proposal by the Chief Justice of the High Court, the
consultation with the State Executive being retained because of the
financial aspect and information regarding antecedents, etc. and only upon
the concurrence of the Chief Justice of India, which, in other words, means
the Chief Justice of India would have had the power to veto any proposal.
In my view, conferring an power of veto on the Chief Justice of India is
entirely different from the primacy being given to his views or advice over
and above the views or advice of the other consulting functionaries, as a
limiting factor on the President's discretion. Dr. Ambedkar also understood
the proposed amendment of Mr. Pocker Saheb in this manner and pleaded for
its rejection on the ground that it sought to confer a power of veto on the
Chief Justice of India which he thought was undesirable. The rejection of
the amendment, therefore, has no bearing whatsoever on the question of
primacy with which the Court is concerned at the moment. Thirdly, once it
is realised that the scope and ambit of full and effective consultation
requires that all the material facts and records concerning the proposed
candidate must be made available to both these consulting functionaries by
placing the same before each during the consultative process and that each
consulting functionary must consider the same or identical material and
exchange each one's views thereon with the other there is no merit left in
the argument that the Chief Justice of the High Court has a closer
opportunity to assess the suitability of the proposed appointee; surely it
is not a case of watching the demeanour of a witness so as to put the
assessment of the Chief Justice of the High Court on any higher footing.
Having regard to these aspects, particularly the last one, one will have to
consider whether any primacy could be and should be given to the views and
advice tendered by the Chief Justice of India to the President in the
matter of appointing High Court Judges. I must confess that the article
does not expressly suggest that any primacy is to be accorded to his advice
during the consultative process undertaken in Article 217(1) but, in my
view, the scheme of consultative process contemplated by that article
envisages consideration of identical facts and materials bearing on the
suitability of the candidate by both the consulting functionaries, namely,
the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India, as also
an exchange of their views on such material, and thereafter placing of the
entire material together with each one's views thereon and the tendering of
the advice or final recommendation by the Chief Justice of India to the
President whose decision should be guided by such advice or final
recommendation so tendered. If such be the scheme envisaged by Article
217(1) - and I am of the opinion it does envisage such a scheme, then
clearly by implication primacy is intended to be given to the advice that
would be tendered by the Chief Justice of India to the President. In any
event, I would suggest that evolving such a scheme regarding the
consultative process under Article 217(1) would be in fitness of things as
primacy shall have been given to the advice or final recommendation to be
tendered by the Chief Justice of India who happens to occupy the highest
constitutional position as the head of the Indian Judiciary. It may be
noted that giving primacy to the advice of the Chief Justice of India in
the matter of appointment of High Court Judges is not to give power to veto
any proposal as was contemplated by Mr. Pocker Saheb's amendment nor would
giving such primacy to his advice mean that the Chief Justice of India
would be enjoying unfettered arbitrary powers, for, if his advice has
proceeded on extraneous or non-germane considerations the same shall be
subject to the judicial review just as the President's final decision is so
subject if he were to disregard the advice of the Chief Justice of India
unless the same is justified for cogent and convincing reasons. But the
point I would like to emphasise is that construing Article 217(1) as
envisaging the scheme of the nature indicated above would go a long way in
preserving judicial independence rather than not according primacy to Chief
Justice of India's advice and permitting the President to act as an arbiter
between the divergent views of the two high constitutional functionaries
and leaving him to prefer the views of one to the other. 633. Having considered the question of primacy as aforesaid, I would like
to make a couple of observations on the basis that the suitability test is
required to be passed by the sitting Additional Judges over again at the
time of deciding upon their continuance either as Additional Judges or as
permanent Judges. The consultative process even on this occasion must be
full, complete and effective as is the case with the consultative process
that is required to be gone through under Article 222(1) when the question
of transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another High Court is
considered. Further, the procedure to be followed at the time of
undertaking such consultative process must also ensure fair play qua the
concerned sitting Additional Judge. In other words, though the principle of
natural justice in its full vigour is not contemplated, the sitting
Additional Judge should not receive a raw deal at the hands of the
consulting functionaries and either one or the other or if necessary both
should hear him, especially if any adverse material is weighing in their
minds against him, just as in a case under Article 222(1) the personal
difficulties and other grounds of objections of the proposed transferee are
considered by the consulting functionary. In other words, in my view the
scope and ambit of the consultative process under Articles 217(1) and 222(1) are and must be the same. 634. I shall next deal with the question of short-term extensions which
have been challenged by the petitioners as being directly subversive of the
independence of judiciary and, therefore, not contemplated by the
Constitution. The contesting respondents in that respect have placed strong
reliance upon the provision contained in Article 224(1) to suggest that
such short-term extensions are contemplated and fall within the power
conferred upon the appointing authority under that article. It is true that Article 224(1) confers power on the President to appoint duly qualified
persons to be Additional Judges of a High Court if the pre-conditions
mentioned therein exist "for such period not exceeding two years as he may
specify". Relying on the phrase "for such period not exceeding two years as
he may specify" occurring in the article, the contesting respondents have
claimed that that phrase only fixes the maximum period of two years at a
time, that the article does not limit the discretion of the appointed
authority in the matter of the period for which an Additional judge can be
appointed except in regard to the ceiling of two years and that the
appointment can be for a shorter period which period is not justiciable and
what has been urged is that the period must of necessity get corelated to
the continued existence of the pre-conditions relating to the volume of
work for which the appointments are to be made. Such a literal construction
is difficult to accept because no provision of the Constitution can be
interpreted in a manner which will be in conflict with any of the basic
features of the Constitution and the cardinal principle of independence of
judiciary is one such basic feature; therefore, the construction to be put
on the phrase in the article must be consistent with the said principle. It
cannot be disputed that security of tenure ensures judicial independence
and tenures for short terms like three months, six months or nine months
bring in insecurity directly impinging on judicial independence and also
tend to shake the faith of the community in the administration of justice
and, therefore would be unconstitutional. Moreover, granting short-term
extensions for periods like three months, six months, or nine months
'pending inquiry into the complaints' said to have been received against
some of the sitting Additional Judges, as has been admitted by Shri Kankan
in his counter-affidavit on behalf of the contesting respondents, would be
clearly outside the contemplation of the Constitution for no machinery
having legal sanction behind it has been provided for either in the
Constitution or any other law authorising such inquiry or investigation
into the complaints against sitting Additional Judges and the practice of
giving short-term extensions on such ground must be deprecated and regarded
as unconstitutional. I have already held that the suitability test is not
attracted while deciding upon the continuance of the sitting Additional
Judges but assuming that it is required to be gone through the process must
be completed well in advance of the date of expiry of their initial term or
if for any reason it cannot be so completed the concerned Additional Judge
must be given extension for at least one year. In this behalf I would again
like to refer to the constitutional convention or practice that has grown
over the years, notwithstanding the phrase "for such period not exceeding
two years as he may specify" occurring in Article 224(1) , which is to
appoint Additional Judges initially for a period of two years, which has
come to be regarded as the 'normal term' and on the expiry of this term to
continue them for a further period of two years and so on till they are
confirmed as permanent Judges, subject, of course, to the pre-conditions
continuing to obtain in that High Court and it has been pointed out that Article 224(1) has been worked in that manner over the years. In any case
no extension for less than a year should ever be granted irrespective of
whether volume of work justifies it or not simply with a view to give the
Judge concerned fixity of tenure for that period. Further, it is extremely
desirable and necessary that orders granting extensions to sitting
Additional Judges or making them permanent are issued and intimated to the
concerned Judges and not merely to the constitutional authorities as was
suggested during the vacation hearing, well in advance of the date of
expiry of their term and not at the eleventh hour keeping them on
tenterhooks till the last moment. After all the sitting Additional Judges
are high Constitutional functionaries possessing the same position, powers
and privileges as the permanent Judges, and deserve due consideration and
respectful treatment at the hands of the appointing authority. 635. Apropos their challenge to short-term extensions the petitioners have
contended that Article 216 of the Constitution casts a primary obligation
upon the President mandatorily to provide adequate permanent strength to
every High Court to cope with its normal business so as to ensure its
disposal within reasonable time and to review such strength from time to
time so that arrears do not accumulate and justice to litigants is not
unduly delayed, while the power to appoint Additional Judges under Article
224(1) is only to meet, (a) temporary increase in the business of the High
Court or (b) arrears of work therein, and the complaint is that the
appointing authority or the Union Government has failed to discharge its
mandatory obligation under Article 216 and has gone on appointing
Additional Judges even when a substantial increase in the normal business
is there in almost every High Court justifying the reviewing of the
permanent strength of those High Courts. The contention has been that the
objective facts obtaining in many High Courts unmistakably demonstrate that
the increase of business is not of a temporary character but is a permanent
increase every year and that the arrears have increased and accumulated to
an appreciably disturbing level with no reasonable prospects of
substantially reducing the same over a period of years and, therefore, the
President cannot resort to Article 224(1) but has to increase the permanent
strength by making permanent appointments under Article 217 read with Article 216. In any case it is urged that Additional Judges cannot be
appointed while keeping permanent post vacant as is happening at present
frequently. The submission of the petitioners therefore has been that in
view of such reality obtaining in various High Courts the action on the
part of the appointing authority in Keeping a large number of sitting
Additional Judges as Additional Judges would be arbitrary and
unconstitutional and a clear case exists for declaring them to be deemed to
have become permanent or for directing the President to make them permanent
by appropriately increasing the permanent strength in the concerned High
Courts and it will be within the powers of this Court to pass appropriate
orders or give necessary directions in this behalf. In support of these
submissions statements containing statistical materials pertaining to
Bombay High Court and Delhi High Court were relied upon and on the question
of Courts' power to grant appropriate reliefs reliance was placed upon two
decisions of this Court, namely, Shewpujanrai Indrasanrai Ltd. v. Collector
of Customs and Y. Mahaboob Sheriff v. Mysore State Transport Authority . 636. On the other hand, counsel for the contesting respondents denied that
the appointing authority has failed to discharge its obligation to provide
adequate permanent strength in the High Courts. It was not disputed that
the volume of work in almost every High Court has increased tremendously
and heavy arrears have accumulated and are ever mounting but it is pointed
out that whenever any Chief Justice of any High Court had asked for an
increase either in the permanent strength or in the strength of Additional
Judges such request was always considered and responded to satisfactorily.
On the question of liquidating arrears it has been pointed out that the
problem is not merely related to the strength of either permanent or
Additional Judges obtaining in a High Court but depends on numerous other
factors and several suggestions in the direction of finding a solution to
that problem have been under active consideration of the Union Government.
Counsel, however, strenuously disputed that in this area appertaining to
executive function of the appointing authority and/or the Union Government
this Court can grant relief by way of declaring the sitting additional
Judges to be deemed to have become permanent or by directing the President
to make them permanent by appropriately increasing the permanent strength
in the concerned High Courts as has been prayed for by the petitioners. 637. On a consideration of the two relevant articles, namely, 216 and
224(1) it seems to me quite clear that Article 216 unquestionably casts a
mandatory obligation on the President (appointing authority) to provide
adequate strength of permanent Judges in every High Court to cope with and
dispose of its normal business and further to review periodically such
permanent strength. The word "shall" and the further words "such other
Judges as the President may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint" 638. The next question on which a great deal of argument was advanced at
the Bar by counsel for the petitioners is whether before effecting a
transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another his 'consent' to such
transfer should be obtained or not, that is to say, whether the words "with
his consent" should be read into Article 222(1) of the Constitution or
because a transfer involves a 'fresh appointment'. Article 222(1) runs thus
: 639. It may be stated that before arriving at the aforesaid conclusions the
Judges have expressed their considered views on several aspects concerning
the power of transfer vested in the President under Article 222(1) in the
context of the concept of independence of judiciary to which a brief
reference will be appropriate. In the first place all the Judges have
emphasised the fact that the framers of our Constitution had taken the
utmost paints to secure the independence of the Judges of the Supreme Court
and the High Courts and in that behalf several provisions in the
Constitution were referred to - a position which was not disputed by the
Attorney-General for the Union of India. Further, all the Judges rejected
the claim made on behalf of the Union Government that the power conferred
on the President under Article 222(1) was absolute or that if he were to
"consult" the Chief Justice of India there was an end of the matter and the
order of transfer could not be questioned. The Court held that the power of
transfer conferred on the President under Article 222(1) was subject to two
built-in safeguards : (i) that it must be exercised in public interest
alone and not in order to punish a Judge or to make him toe the Government
line and (ii) that it must be exercised after full, complete and effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of India; in other words an order of
transfer would become a justiciable issue and be liable to be quashed or
set aside if (a) it was not in public interest or (b) it was passed without
full, complete and effective consultation or (c) if the opinion or advice
of the Chief Justice of India was ignored or brushed aside without cogent
reasons. On the scope and efficacy of consultation contemplated under Article 222(1) two learned Judges Chandrachud, J. and Krishna Iyer, J.
dealt with those aspects at some length and the other learned Judges have
substantially expressed their agreement with their views on the point. The
effect of the observations on the scope of consultation can be briefly
sated thus : Consultation with the Chief Justice is obligatory and a
condition precedent to the exercise of that power by the President; such
consultation must be a real, substantial and effective consultation and in
order that it would be so, all relevant facts in support of the proposed
action of transfer must be placed before the Chief Justice and all his
doubts and queries must be adequately answered; the consultation casts an
obligation and a duty on the Chief Justice to elicit information not merely
from the President and the Judge concerned but from such quarters as he
thinks fit on all relevant aspects bearing on the desirability,
advisability and necessity of the proposed transfer including factors
personal to the Judge concerned such as his health, extreme family factors
involving dislocation etc. so as to leave him no grounds to complain of
arbitrariness or unfair play. On the efficacy of the resultant advice
tendered by the Chief Justice, Krishna Iyer, J. observed at SCR page 502 of
the Report thus : (SCC pp. 273-74, para 115)Secondly, although the opinion
of the Chief Justice of India may not be binding on the Government it is
entitled to great weight and is normally to be accepted by the Government
because the power under Article 222 cannot be exercised whimsically or
arbitrarily. Again after quoting a passage from the judgment in Chandramouleshwar case
( Chandmouleswar Prasad v. Patna High Court, and after referring to his own judgment
in Samsher Singh case (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, in which he struck the same
chord, he observed thus : (SCC p. 274, para 115)

It must also be borne in mind that if the Government departs from the
opinion of the Chief Justice of India it has to justify its action by
giving cogent and convincing reasons for the same and, if challenged, to
prove to the satisfaction of the Court that a case was made out for not
accepting the advice of the Chief Justice of India. The learned Judge has further gone on to observe thus : (SCC p. 247, para 116)

The dangers of arbitrary action or unsavoury exercise has been minimised by
strait-jacketing of the power of transfer. Likewise, the high legal risk of
invalidation of the Presidential order made in the teeth of the Chief
Justice's objection, runs in an added institutional protection. For, it is
reasonable for the Court before which a Judge's transfer is challenged, to
take a skeptic view and treat it as suspect if the Chief Justice's advice
has been ignored. 640. It may also be stated that according to Chandrachud, J. just as the
safeguard of public interest kept transfers by way of punishment outside
the purview of Article 222(1) the safeguard of effective consultation also
indicated that policy transfers on a wholesale basis were also outside the
scope of that article. As regards the plea of national integration on the
basis of which the transfers of 16 permanent Judges were sought to be
justified, Chandrachud, J. expressed the view that it was a moot point
whether it would be necessary to transfer Judges from one High Court to
another in the interest of national integration but since it was a policy
matter the Court was not concerned with it directly but suggested that
considering the great inconvenience, hardship and possibly a slur which a
transfer from one High Court to another High Court involves, the better
view would be to leave the Judges untouched and take other measures to
achieve that purpose, and further added that if at all on mature and
objective appraisal of the situation it was still felt that there should be
a fair sprinkling in the High Court judiciary of persons belonging to other
States, that object could be more easily and effectively attained by making
appointments of outsiders initially but he categorically observed that the
record of the case before the Court did not bear out the claim that any of
the 16 High Court Judges had been transferred in order to further the cause
of national integration and the true position was far from it. On the
question of non-consensual transfers being within the article Krishna Iyer,
J. summed up the position thus : (SCC p. 275, para 118)Logomachy may
confuse, philosophy may illumine, teleology may shed interpretative sheen.
We have considered the design, the source, the impact and the engineering
aspects of Article 222. At the end of the journey we feel clearly that the
power of non-consentaneous transfer does exist. Salutary safeguards to
ensure judicial independence with concern for the All-India character of
the superior courts in the context of the paramount need of national unity
and integrity and mindful of the advantages of inter-State cross-
fertilisation and avoidance of provincial pervicaciousness were all in the
calculations of the framers of the Constitution. A power is best felt by
its aware presence and rare exercise. 641. Counsel for the petitioners principally urged two grounds before us
which according to him necessitate a reconsideration of the majority view
in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth ,
about non- consensual transfers being within the purview of Article 222(1) which I
propose to discuss one after the other. In the first place according to
counsel one of the principal reasons why the majority felt that there was
no need to read the words "with his consent" into Article 222(1) was that
the power to transfer thereunder could not be exercised by way of punishing
a High Court Judge, which aspect was exclusively governed by Article 218 read with Article 124(4) and (5) , but had to be exercised only in public
interest and after effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India
and that public interest and such consultation were sufficient safeguards
against the abuse of power under that article but the safeguard of public
interest so as to prevent the exercise of the power by way of punishment
will be found to be illusory if the examples of transfers in public
interest as have been given by Chandrachud, J. in his judgment are
carefully scrutinised; for, according to counsel the illustrative cases of
transfers in public interest as given by the learned Judge on analysis will
be found to involve misbehaviour mentioned in Article 124(4) and therefore
in those illustrative cases though the transfers may appear to be in public
interest in one sense they would be really by way of punishment and as such
there is a contradiction at the heart of the judgment. Reliance in this
behalf was placed on the following passage occurring in the judgment of
Chandrachud, J. at SCR page 446 : (SCC p. 220, para 22)Experience shows
that there are cases, though fortunately they are few and far between, in
which the exigencies of administration necessitate the transfer of a Judge
from one High Court to another. The factious local atmosphere sometimes
demands the drafting of a Judge or Chief Justice from another High Court
and on the rarest of rare occasions which can be counted on the fingers of
a hand, it becomes necessary to withdraw a Judge from a circle of
favourites and non-favourites. The voice of compassion is heard depending
upon who articulates it. Though transfers in such cases are pre-eminently
in public interest, it will be impossible to achieve that purpose if a
Judge cannot be transferred without his consent. His personal interest may
lie in continuing in a Court where his private interest will be served
best, whereas, public interest may require that his moorings ought to be
severed to act as a reminder that "the place of justice is hallowed place". It is pointed out that in the cases mentioned above, if the veil of the
language of judicial courtesy was lifted, it will appear clear that the
power of transfer that would be used would be to punish a Judge for
misbehaviour, for which, as the judgment points out, action has to be taken
only under Article 218 read with Article 124(4) and (5). For instance, a
transfer brought about by "the factious local atmosphere" put in plain
language means that a Judge or Chief Justice is failing to administer
justice impartially by favouring or disfavouring a faction; similarly,
where a transfer is effected in order "to withdraw a Judge from a circle of
favourites and non-favourites" it would be a clear case of the Judge being
guilty of gross misbehaviour in clear violation of his judicial oath. It
is, therefore, urged that though in such cases, the transfers may
apparently be in public interest they are rally by way of punishment and as
such the safeguard of public interest is of no avail. In fact, according to
counsel transfers of such Judges would run counter to public interest as
these Judges should not be inflicted on other High Courts to vitiate the
atmosphere there. Counsel further urged that if regard be had to the
ordinary dictionary meaning of the word 'punishment' it is clear that
punishment means : "pain, damage or loss inflicted"(without any retributive
or judicial character) and in this sense every transfer of a High Court
Judge from one High Court to another without his consent would amount to
punishment since it inflicts on him personal injury, loss or damage in the
sense of uprooting him from his moorings, his being required to have two
establishments, suffering a dislocation in family affairs, etc., apart from
the slur involved in being so transferred. It is further pointed out that
the main safeguard is of public interest and the safeguard of effective
consultation is secondary arising out of and in furtherance of the main
safeguard and as such if the principal safeguard fails the secondary
safeguard, which is in furtherance of it, would also fail. If, therefore,
both the safeguards, the principal as well as the secondary, become
illusory and if punishment is involved in every transfer without consent
then one of the principal reasons suggested by the majority for not reading
consent into the article must disappear and there would be the need to read
'consent' into the article so as to obviate the element of punishment. 642. It is difficult to accept the aforesaid line of argument as
necessitating the reconsideration of the majority view in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , for the reasons which I shall
presently indicate. 643. But before dealing with the contention I would like to observe that I
am in agreement with counsel for the petitioners that the illustrative
cases given in the passage quoted above are in substance where Judges could
be said to be guilty of misbehaviour falling under Article 124(4) and that
their transfer to other High Courts, apart from being by way of punishment,
would amount to doing great dis-service to public interest. In this context
I would like to emphasize that the safeguard of public interest read into Article 222(1) is not intended for protecting any black sheep in the
judiciary but for protecting the numerous honest, conscientious hard-
working Judges and I have always been of the confirmed view that no corrupt
or dishonest Judge, and nor a Judge, who contrary to his oath of office,
indulges in any kind of favouritism while discharging his duties - who
could be likened to a rotten egg, should be tolerated in the judicial
basket and he deserves to be dealt with under Article 218 read with Article
124(4) and (5) but not by transferring him to another High Court, for, such
a transfer would be contrary to public interest. That is why I would
reiterate that a transfer by way of punishment for misbehaviour is clearly
outside the purview of Article 222(1) and similarly, any transfer with an
oblique motive or for an oblique purpose, such as for not toeing the line
of the executive or for rendering decisions unpalatable to the executive or
for having for some reason or the other fallen from the grace of the
executive, would also be outside its purview and liable to be struck down,
if oblique motive or purpose is established. 644. Turning to the contention, it must, in the first place be pointed out
that the mere fact that the illustrative cases of transfers given by
Chandrachud, J. in his judgment as being in public interest are in
substance and reality cases of transfers by way of punishment does not mean
that there can be no cases of transfers purely in public interest without
any element of punishment being involved. Cases of transfers in pubic
interest pure and simple without involving any element of punishment are
conceivable with the result that the safeguard of public interest dwelt at
length in the judgment cannot be said to be illusory or otiose. When Article 222 , as inserted anew by Drafting Committee in the Revised Draft
Constitution prepared on November 3, 1949, was discussed in the Constituent
Assembly on November 16, 1949 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar indicated the purpose of
inserting the provision in the Revised Draft and gave at least two
instances of transfers which would purely be in public interest. This is
what he said : 645. The other ground which necessitates the reconsideration of the
majority view, according to the counsel for the petitioners, is that while
rejecting the contention of the original petitioner that a transfer of a
Judge from one High Court to another involves "a fresh appointment" and,
therefore, his consent to the transfer would be necessary, both
Chandrachud, J. and Krishna Iyer, J. have proceeded on the basis that the Government of India Act, 1935 did not contain any provision for the
transfer of a Judge and contrasted Section 220(2) proviso (c) of that Act
with Article 217(1)(c) of the Constitution and took the view that while
enacting the latter provision the framers of the Constitution had made a
distinction between 'appointment' and 'transfer' by using these two
expressions in contradistinction with one another while providing that "the
office of a Judge shall be vacated by his being appointed by the President
to be a Judge of the Supreme Court or by his being transferred by the
President to any other High Court within the territory of India" [see Article 217(1)(c)]. In other words, by contrasting the provision contained
in Section 220(2) proviso (c) of the Government of India Act, 1935 with Article 217(1)(c) of the Constitution both the learned Judges took the view
that the expression 'appointment' in the first part of the latter provision
meant 'fresh appointment' while the expression 'transfer' used in the
latter part did not mean fresh appointment and for taking such a view and
that the two expressions had not been interchangeably used reliance was
placed on the supposed absence of any provision for a transfer of a Judge
in the Government of India Act, 1935 . But counsel has submitted that Government of India Act, 1935 did contain a provision for the transfer of a
Judge and in that behalf reliance was placed upon the fact that proviso (c)
to Section 220(2) was introduced with retrospective effect from April 1,
1937 by Section 2 of the India (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1944 enacted
by the British Parliament and it was pointed out that though the actual
proviso (c) used the word 'appointment', the marginal note of Section 2 ran
thus : "Judges to vacate office on transfer" and even during the discussion
that took place on the Bill, Earl of Munster addressing the House of Lords
and the Secretary of State for India, Mr. Amery addressing the House of
Commons while explaining the provision that was being inserted with
retrospective effect stated that the said provision was being made
providing for vacating the office of a Judge on his transfer to another
High Court or to the Federal Court. In other words, what has been urged by
counsel for the petitioners is that the marginal note to Section 2 of the
India (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1944 as well as the debates in the
House of Lords and House of Commons clearly indicate that proviso (c) which
was added with retrospective effect to Section 220(2) of the Government of
India Act, 1935 really dealt with transfer of a High Court Judge when he
was either appointed to another High Court or to the Federal Court, that is
to say, the expression 'appointment' had been used really to connote a
transfer, suggesting an interchangeable use of the two expressions by the
British Parliament and, therefore, the basis adopted by the learned Judges
for drawing a distinction between 'appointment' and 'transfer' would
disappear and, therefore, the conclusion arrived at would not be correct.
Counsel fairly stated that Reports of British Parliamentary Proceedings
compiled by Hansard were not available to him when Sankalchand Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , was argued by him before this Court but
have since been made available now and he was making his submission before
us. There may be some force in the submission but in my view the submission
is not adequate to necessitate and reconsideration of the majority view for
two reasons. In the first place the assumed basis (which is now found to be
wrong) for making the distinction between 'appointment' and 'transfer' in Article 217(1)(c) was merely used for refuting an argument of the original
petitioner that since in Section 220(2) proviso (c) of the Government of
India Act, 1935 appointments to Federal Court were clubbed with the
appointments "to another High Court" and since the Judge's consent was
necessary in both the cases the Court should read the corresponding
provision of the Constitution in Article 217(1)(c) to mean that a process
of the transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another involves a fresh
appointment and in the connection it was said that the Government of India
Act, 1935 did not contain any provision of a transfer of a Judge. Secondly,
apart from that reason, several other reasons have been indicated in the
judgment why a transfer of a Judge does not involve a fresh appointment,
such as non-issuance of a fresh warrant of appointment, no consultation as
contemplated under Article 217 taking place but only of the kind
contemplated by Article 222(1) , etc. The first reason does smack of
formality but the second cannot be regarded as unsubstantial, for the
nature of the two consultations is different and the fact that only that
kind of consultation as contemplated under Article 222(1) takes place
emphasises the position that it is not a fresh appointment. In view of this
position the second ground on which the reconsideration of the majority
view is sought is of no avail. 646. Having regard to the aforesaid discussion, in my view, no case could
be said to have been made out for reconsidering the decision of the
majority is Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , 
according to which non-consensual transfers are within the purview of Article 222(1). The other submissions in support of the contention that
'consent' should be read into that article as a matter of construction or
that consent of the concerned Judge is necessary as a transfer involves
fresh appointment, which were reiterated in brief before us, have all been
dealt with and answered by the learned Judges who pronounced the majority
view in Sankalchand Sheth case. ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , . I am,
therefore, in agreement with the majority view that non-consensual
transfers are within the purview of Article 222(1). 647. Before parting with the decision in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of
India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . I would like to refer to certain observations
made by Chandrachud, J. in connection with policy transfers as I feel that
they need some clarification and apropos those observations I would like to
deal with and make my observations with regard to the two policies which
appear to have been accepted in principle, though not fully formulated and
formally declared by the Union Government in connection with the transfer
of High Court Judges. In Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , a view has been expressed by Chandrachud, J. that the
safeguard of effective consultation suggests that policy transfers on
wholesale basis are outside the purview of Article 222(1) and in this
behalf the pertinent observations made by him are as follows : (SCC p. 227,
para 38)Thus, deliberation is the quintessence of consultation. That
implies that each individual case must be considered separately on the
basis of its own facts. Policy transfers on a wholesale basis which leave
no scope for considering the facts of each particular case and which are
influenced by one-sided governmental considerations are outside the
contemplation of our Constitution. (vide SCR p. 454 of the Report)

The last sentence in these observations is likely to create a wrong
impression that if large number of transfers are made pursuant to a general
policy these would be outside the purview of Article 222(1) of the
Constitution but that is not what is really intended to be conveyed. The
emphasis clearly is on wholesale transfers without considering each
individual case on its own merits being outside the purview of article
222(1) and more so when such wholesale or mass transfers are influenced by
one-side governmental considerations which would be outside the purview of
the article. In other words, it is clear that even if a transfer is
effected pursuant to a general policy adopted by the Government the same
must satisfy requirements of Article 222(1) , that is to say, it must be in
public interest and made after full and effective consultation. Ordinarily
on general policy will be adopted unless it clearly serves some public
interest and hence when a transfer is stated to be pursuant to such general
policy it will be a difficult task for the Judge concerned to establish
that it has been made for extraneous considerations but all the same a
transfer based on a general policy will have to satisfy the requirements of article 222(1) and if extraneous considerations are established the same
will have to be struck down. 648. In this context I would like to refer to one aspect which was debated
at the Bar, whether before any such general policy is adopted by the
Government any consultation with the Chief Justice of India is necessary or
questions of policy are exclusively to be decided by the Government ? It is
true that Article 222(1) merely refers to consultation of the Chief Justice
of India on specific individual proposals for transfer as and when these
are made and nothing is mentioned therein as regards consultation with him
on points such as whether and if so what policy or policies should be
adopted for effecting transfer of Judges from one High Court to another. It
is also true that ordinarily policy matters would be decided upon by the
Government. But propriety requires and perhaps smooth working thereof may
necessitate consultation with the Chief Justice who is the highest
administrative head of the country's judiciary especially as the policy or
policies to be adopted are in relation to transfer of High Court Judges.
But, as stated earlier, even after a general policy in the matter of
transfers of High Court Judges is framed and adopted whenever a transfer is
to be made in pursuance of such policy the proposal, before it culminates
into an order, will have to satisfy the requirements of Article 222(1). 649. Coming to the two policies which the Union of India seems to have
accepted in principle though not fully formulated by fixing the mechanism
or modality of procedure, it may be stated that one such policy is to have
one-third of the Puisne Judges in a High Court from outside the State - a
policy which has been referred to in the Circular dated March 18, 1981 and
the other is the policy to have Chief Justices of all the High Courts from
outside - a policy that became the subject-matter of debate in Shri K. B.
N. Singh 's case. Without going into the merits or demerits of either of
them and without going into the question whether there are proper or
justifiable grounds for adopting either of them, that is to say, whether
either of them serves any public interest or not, I would like to deal with
a couple of aspects touching these policies which I feel it is necessary to
clarify at this stage. It was suggested at one stage during the arguments
that individual selective transfers are prone to be punitive in character
but once a general policy is adopted there will be no scope for raising a
contention that the transfer made in pursuance thereof is a punitive
transfer. In fact, the argument went to the length of equating individual
selective transfers with punitive transfers and policy transfers as being
always above-board. Such an extreme contention is difficult to accept. It
will not be correct to say that a policy transfer, that is to say, a
transfer based on or made in pursuance of a general policy would
necessarily be non-punitive in character nor would it be correct to say
that every selective transfer is necessarily punitive. Taking the policy of
having one-third Puisne Judges in a High Court from outside, it will be
clear that in the absence of any mechanism or modality of procedure giving
guide-lines as to how that one-third complement will be chosen for
implementing it, such a policy would obviously be fraught with the danger
or vice of discrimination; further, if a vacancy arises in that complement
of that High Court then filling it up in the absence of proper guide-lines
would again be arbitrary. Similarly, even the policy of having the Chief
Justices of all the High Courts from outside stands the risk of being
abused by the executive in the absence of proper guide-lines being provided
in the matter of regulating which Chief Justice shall be posted in what
particular High Court; this assumes significance in a federal polity like
ours. It is thus clear that a policy transfer without fixing the requisite
mechanism or modality of procedure which ensures complete insulation
against the executive interference could be a punitive transfer in the
sense of having been effected with some oblique motive. Even with proper
mechanism or modality of procedure a transfer can be made for extraneous
considerations and will be liable to be struck down if it is so
established. But admittedly no mechanism or modality of procedure of any
king has been fixed or decided upon so far and, therefore, how can it be
asserted that every policy transfer made in pursuance of either of these
two policies would necessarily be above-board ? In other words, merely
adopting a general policy, which is or may be broadly supportable for
reasons of public interest, would not be sufficient to insulate transfers
of High Court Judges against executive interference unless adequate
mechanism or modality of procedure in that behalf is also fixed and
followed in practice. Conversely, a selective transfer in an appropriate
case for strictly objective reasons and in public interest of general
administration could be non-punitive. In other words, each case of
transfer, whether based on a policy or a selective transfer, will have to
be judged on the facts and circumstances of its own for deciding whether it
is punitive in character in the sense of having been effected with some
oblique motive or not. 650. Coming to the impugned Circular Letter dated March 18, 1981 it is
clear that the petitioners on the one hand and the contesting respondents
on the other are at great variance with each other on the true nature,
content and effect thereof; whereas according to the petitioners the
circular letter seeks to effect, in substance and reality, a mass transfer
of sitting Additional Judges as also of the proposed appointees based on a
policy decision unilaterally taken by the Law Minister and/or the Union
Government and in that behalf seeks to obtain their consent under threat,
coercion and duress, according to the contesting respondents no such
transfers are intended at all but the circular letter merely seeks to
obtain consent from sitting Additional Judges for their appointment as
Permanent Judges of other High Courts on the expiry of their initial term
or extended term and consent form the proposed appointees for their initial
or first appointment to High Courts other than their homes-State High
Courts and the action proposed to be taken thereunder is for the purposes
of Article 217 of the Constitution and no threat, coercion or duress is
involved in obtaining such consent. The impugned circular letter has
already been set out verbatim at the commencement of this judgment and a
careful analysis of the contents thereof brings out the following seven
aspects very clearly : In the first place the action proposed in para 2
thereof (of obtaining consent) is being taken with a view to implement a
policy suggested by several bodies and forums "to have one-third of the
Judges of a High Court, as far as possible, from outside the State in which
that High Court is situated"for" furthering national integration and
combating narrow parochial tendencies bred by caste, kinship and other
local links and affiliations" ; secondly, the letter records that as no
start could somehow be made in the past in that direction the feeling was
strong, growing and justified that some effective steps should be taken
very early in that behalf; thirdly, para 2, which specifies the action to
be taken, is in two parts : (i) in relation to sitting Additional Judges in
all the States of India (except North-Eastern States), it seeks to obtain
their consent "to be appointed" as permanent Judges to High Courts in
States other than their own and (ii) in relation to the proposed appointees
(either from the Bar or Services) for initial appointment (either as
Additional or permanent Judges) it seeks to obtain their consent for being
"appointed to" in any other High Court in the country (meaning other than
their home-State High Court); fourthly, in this behalf it also seeks form
them their choice by naming three High Courts in order of preference to
which they would prefer to go; fifthly, the sitting Additional Judges and
the proposed appointees from whom such consent and preferences are sought
are to be told clearly that furnishing of the consent or the indication of
a preference does not imply any commitment on the part of the Government
either in regard to their appointment or to accommodation in accordance
with the preferences given; sixthly, the letter strikes a note of urgency
and requests the addresses thereof to initiate action very early and after
obtaining the written consent and preferences from the persons concerned to
forward the same to the Law Minister within a fortnight of the receipt of
the letter; lastly, the circular letter has been addressed by the Law
Minister to the Governor of Punjab and all Chief Ministers of the States
(except North-Eastern States) requesting them to obtain such consent and
preferences from all Additional Judges as well as the proposed appointees,
with merely a copy of the letter being sent to each of the Chief Justices
of the concerned High Courts. 651. Counsel for the contesting respondents pointed out that when an
Additional Judge is appointed under Article 224(1) his tenure is fixed by
the warrant of his appointment and on the expiry of the period mentioned in
the warrant he ceases to be a Judge of the High Court and he has no vested
right either to be continued or to be made permanent and in either
extending him for a further term as an Additional Judge or in making him
permanent in the vacancy of a permanent post, a fresh appointment is
involved by issuance of a fresh warrant under Article 217(1) and as such
there is no question of any transfer being involved in such a case, while
in the case of a proposed appointee (either from the Bar of Services) when
he is being initially appointed obviously there is no question of any
transfer in his case either and it is from such persons that consent is
being sought under para 2 of the Circular Letter and the same is for 'a
fresh appointment' in the case of the former and 'an initial appointment'
in the case of the latter under Article 217(1) of the Constitution. Counsel
further pointed out that para 2 of the Circular Letter uses the expression
"to be appointed" in the case of sitting Additional Judges as also in the
case of proposed appointees and the word "transfer" has not been used at
all and as such counsel contended that the circular letter does not deal
with the topic of transfer of Judges at all. Reliance in this behalf is
also placed on the Law Minister's statement in Parliament made on April 16,
1981 in response to the Calling Attention Motion by Shri Rashid Masood and
other M.Ps. and the answers given by him to the questions put to him by
several Members during the discussion that followed, wherein he clarified
the position that consent from sitting Additional Judges was sought under
the Circular Letter for their fresh appointments under Article 217 and not
for their transfers and Article 222 was not attracted at all. It was
further contended that para 3 of the Circular Letter merely clarified the
legal and constitutional position that obtained even before the sending of
the letter that there will be no commitment on the part of the Government
either in regard to the appointment or in regard to the accommodation in
accordance with preference given and that such clarification of the legal
position was necessary lest a wrong impression was created that furnishing
of consent or indication of preference would imply such a commitment as
also to avoid any legal arguments based on the theory of promissory
estoppel and no threat, coercion or duress could be inferred from the
contents of para 3 of the Circular Letter. The question is whether this is
the true nature and effect of the circular letter. 652. It is true that according to its dictionary meaning the word
'transfer' means 'removal from one place or position to another', but it is
not such physical shifting of a person from one place to another with which
the Court is concerned in the case; the Court is concerned with the concept
of transfer contemplated in Article 222(1) of the Constitution which says : is involved, except for the formality of issuing a fresh warrant of
appointment and taking a fresh oath. If in the case of such sitting
Additional Judge his consent is sought for being 'appointed to' another
High Court it is virtually and in substance seeking his consent for his
transfer from his own High Court to another High Court falling within the
concept of transfer contemplated in Article 222(1). It is true that para 2
of the Circular Letter uses the expression "to be appointed" but it is not
the nomenclature or label used that would be decisive of the matter but one
has to look to the substance and looked at the Circular from this angle it
is clear that insofar as sitting Additional Judges are concerned their
consent is sought for transferring them from their own High Courts to other
High Courts and the attempt in substance is to transfer them under the
guise of making fresh appointment on the expiry of their initial or
extended term. Further, considered in the light of the historical
background, there appears to be some force in the petitioners' contention
that the Circular letter is another attempt on the part of the Union
Government this time to effect mass transfers of sitting Additional Judges,
the previous attempt to effect mass transfers of permanent Judges during
the last Emergency having failed. (One such transfer was successfully
challenged and all the transferred Judges, except those who were unwilling,
were repatriated to their own High Courts.) This Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , has laid down the safeguard of
public interest and the stringent condition of full and effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of India which are required to be
observed before the power of transfer under Article 222(1) can be exercised
and the Circular letter appears to be an attempt to circumvent the
safeguard and the stringent condition by resorting to transfers of sitting
Additional Judges under the garb of making fresh appointments on the expiry
of their initial or extended term. 653. Reliance on the Law Minister's statement made in Parliament on April
16, 1981 clarifying the position that consent from sitting Additional
Judges is being sought under the Circular letter for their fresh
'appointment' and nor for their transfers and that Article 222 was not
attracted at all will be of no avail in view of the conclusion reached
above that it is not a case of fresh appointment but in substance their
consent is being sought for their transfer. This apart, the fact that the
Circular letter was intended to effect transfers of siting Additional
Judges becomes amply clear from what transpired during the debate that
followed the Calling Attention Motion of Shri Rashid Masood and other M.Ps.
and particularly from admissions made by the Law Minister himself under
stress of questions in the nature of cross-examination put to him by
Members of Parliament. It will be pertinent to mention that the subject-
matter of the Calling Attention Motion moved by Shri Rashid Masood and
other Members as a matter of urgent public importance is captioned in the
relevant proceedings of Lok Sabha Debates as "Circular letter to Chief
Ministers of States about the consent from Additional Judges for transfer
to other High Courts" . This clearly suggests that even Members of
Parliament regarded the Circular letter as dealing with the topic of
obtaining consent from sitting Additional Judges for their transfer from
their own High Courts to other High Courts but apart from what several
Members of Parliament felt about it, even the Law Minister, while asserting
that the Circular letter dealt with the subject of fresh appointments of
sitting Additional Judges on the expiry of their initial term or extended
term not their transfer and the consent thereunder was merely sought for
making their fresh appointments under Article 217(1) , explained the genesis
and reasons which prompted him to issue the Circular and in that behalf
stated that the various complaints were pouring in about prejudiced
attitudes bred by kinship and other local links and affiliations etc., that
political links had also been mentioned in certain cases and various State
authorities had expressed their reservations about the continuance of some
Additional Judges and it was felt that in some cases of this kind if
Additional Judges could be made permanent in other High Courts there could
be no valid objections to such appointments as their service would then be
outside the local setting in which they had their roots. Such a statement
on the part of the Law Minister by way of explaining the genesis and
reasons for the issuance of the Circular letter undoubtedly lands
considerable force and support to the petitioners' contention that
'furthering national integration and combating parochial trends' is merely
a garb used and the real intention is to transfer such sitting Additional
Judges who have become unpalatable to the State authorities because of
alleged political links obviously not to their liking; or whom the
concerned State authorities have come to regard as black sheep from their
point of view. At one stage during the debate when the facts, that the Law
Commission in its 80th Report had made a distinction between initial
appointees and the sitting Additional Judges in the context of their
recommendation of having one-third of the Judges of the High Court from
outside and that it had suggested that their recommendation should be
implemented in the case of the former, were brought to the notice of Law
Minister this is how the Law Minister reacted :May be that according to him
(Hon'ble Member who brought the aforesaid facts to his notice) the
Additional Judges would not come within the purview of the initial
appointment. Then I would put it in a different form. I have given the
reason as to why we have to ask for the Additional Judges (consent) also.
Things being what they are, I would like to ask the Hon'ble Member, when
complaints come where it is not possible to convincingly prove, then, what
should be done with such Additional Judges ? Are they to be dropped ? I
take a safer approach, namely, if they are appointed elsewhere, then this
allegation which persists could be avoided. This statement clearly suggests that in regard to sitting Additional Judges
against whom complaints are received but it is not possible to convincingly
prove them the Law Minister clearly contemplated the shifting of such
Judges elsewhere so as to avoid allegations being persisted against them
and presumably for doing so an opportunity presents itself when their term
is about to expire. Then follow two important sets of question and answer
which put the matter beyond under the Circular is a transfer of Additional
Judges. The following are the questions and answer : 654. On the question whether the consent sought thereunder from the sitting
Additional Judges is inducted by threat, coercion or duress or not, regard
will have to be had to four or five aspects about the Circular letter that
emerge clearly on the record. In the first place instead of seeking their
consent through the Chief Justices of the concerned High Courts, which
would have been in keeping with decorum and dignity of the high office held
by them, the circular letter in utter impropriety requests the Executive
Head (the Governor of Punjab and all Chief Ministers of the States) "to
obtain from all the Additional Judges.... their consent to be appointed as
permanent Judges in any other High Court" together with their order of
preferences, which smacks of demonstrating the power of the Executive over
the Judiciary. Secondly, the tenor of the letter in executive arrogance
presumes that the consent sought will be forthcoming from all the sitting
Additional Judges inasmuch as the possibility of consent not forthcoming
from some or any of them has not been considered or dealt with in the
letter. Thirdly, paragraph 3 of the letter, by necessary implication,
contains a threat to the Additional Judges that they would not be continued
as Additional Judges or confirmed as permanent Judges and may be dropped
unless they furnish their consent inasmuch as without more it merely states
that furnishing of consent as well as indication of the preferences does
not imply any commitment on the part of the Government either in regard to
their appointment or accommodation in accordance with the preferences
given; such misgiving which naturally arises from this kind of a statement
ought to have been removed by clearly indicating the consequences of non-
furnishing of the consent. It ought to have been stated clearly and
categorically that non-furnishing of the consent will not be held against
any Additional Judge and will not come in his way of being continued or
being made permanent and further that furnishing of consent by an
Additional Judge will not enable him to steal a march over those who have
either not furnished or refused to furnish their consent in the matter of
making them permanent. Both these things were vital and ought to have been
stated in order to remove all misgivings and omission to do so clearly
leads to the inference that the statement in para 3 of the letter, by
implication, contains a threat to the Additional Judge of the type
indicated above. The explanation given on behalf of the contesting
respondents that para 3 as by way of merely clarifying the legal and
constitutional position obtaining in the matter even before the sending of
the Circular letter, namely, that there was no commitment on the part of
the Government to appoint every Additional Judge as a Permanent Judge and
that it was necessary to make the legal and constitutional position clear
lest a different impression was created as also to avoid any legal argument
based on the theory of promissory estoppel is hardly convincing; for, if
para 3 was inserted only with a view to clarify the legal and
constitutional position it was all the more necessary to state the
consequences of non-furnishing of the consent in the manner indicated above
to remove all misgivings. Fourthly, the Circular letter is obviously
intended to have adverse impact on the sitting Additional Judges' right on
the expiry of their initial term or extended term, - it being merely a
right to be considered for being continued or made permanent. Fifthly, the
timing of the Circular is significant in considering its effect and impact
on the sitting Additional Judges; the Circular letter has been issued by
the Law Minister on March 18, 1981 at about the time when politicians and
persons occupying high positions had been indulging in a campaign of
denigrating the higher Judiciary, treating every Court decision adverse to
Government as a deliberate and motivated attack on the Executive. A Chief
Minister of a prominent State had described it as the "Dictatorship of the
Court" while a Cabinet Minister in the Central Government had bracketed the
Judiciary with the opposition parties and had been complaining that they
were not cooperating with the Government; the highest Executive Head at the
Centre had prior to March 18, 1981 publicly stated : "The former Janata
Regime had made a lot of appointments in the Judiciary on political basis.
. . that a dilemma faced by the ruling party was whether these persons
appointed on political basis in Judicial Services should be allowed to
continue and if they are continued how can we expect justice from them ?
What is their credibility ?" It is true that in this behalf the petitioners
have relied upon extracts from Newspaper reports of such statement and
utterances but when these have been made part of their pleadings by the
petitioners [vide para 2 of Shri Tarkunde's petition and para 43(O) of Shri
Gupta's petition] a duty is cast on the contesting respondents to deal with
the same in reply and from the counter-affidavits filed in reply by Shri
Kankan on their behalf it will appear clear that there is no denial that
such statements and utterances were made by the persons concerned. In reply
to para 2 of Shri Tarkunde's petition, Shri Kankan has merely averred that
"the views stated to have been expressed by the Chief Minister of a State
and a Cabinet Minister would have been their personal views and do not and
could not have conveyed the policy of the Government" , while there is no
specific reply to para 43(O) of Shri Gupta's petition at all but an omnibus
general submission in regard to para 43(H) to para 43(Q) has been made by
Shri Kankan by stating thus : 'With regard to paras 43(H) to 43(Q) I submit
that these paras are full of surmises and conjectures ". From this state of
pleadings it will appear clear that there is no denial that the concerned
Chief Minister and the Cabinet Minister and the highest Executive Head at
the Centre had made the several statements and utterances attributed to
them as quoted from the extracts of the Newspaper reports and at the
highest Shri Kankan desired to suggest that these statements and utterances
were their personal views and not of the Government. It cannot be disputed
that such statements and utterances from persons occupying high positions
in the Government help create an atmosphere of fear-psychosis for the not-
so-sterner stuff in the judiciary; secondly, even taking the assertion of
Shri Kankan that these statements and utterances represented their personal
views at its face value (which it is difficult to do) one cannot be sure
when these personal views imperceptibly or unobtrusively become the views
of the Government and form the basis of a Government policy, as has
happened here, for, the Circular letter does reflect partly some of the
views contained in these statements and utterances. The question is what
impact the Circular letter will create on the minds of the sitting
Additional Judges whose terms would be coming to an end on the expiry of
the periods specified in their warrants in the light of the atmosphere of
fear-psychosis created by such statements and utterances made by persons
occupying high positions in the Government ? The answer is too obvious to
be stated. Reading it as a whole and in the light of the aspects discussed
above, the Circular letter clearly exudes an odour of executive dominance
and arrogance intended to have coercive effect on the minds of the sitting
Additional Judges by implying a threat to them that if they do not furnish
their consent to be shifted elsewhere they will not be continued nor made
permanent but would be dropped. The Circular letter, therefore, which seeks
to obtain the consent of the sitting Additional Judges to their transfers
from their own High Court to another High Court induced by threat, coercion
or duress clearly amounts to Executive interference with the Judiciary and
impinges on its independence and as such is illegal, unconstitutional and
void and the consent if any either already obtained thereunder or that may
be obtained, would be equally void. 655. Once the conclusion is reached that the Circular letter seeks to
effect in substance and reality transfers of sitting Additional Judges from
their own High Courts to other High Courts on the expiry of their initial
term or extended term and the consent sought from them thereunder is for
such transfer and not for their 'fresh appointment' as permanent Judges of
other High Courts, the challenge to the same as being violative of Article
222(1) of the Constitution becomes quite apparent. It was sought to be
urged at one stage that if on true construction of Article 224(1) the
sitting Additional Judges during their tenure are outside the pale of
transfer under Article 222(1) then the question of the impugned Circular
being violative of Article 222(1) does not arise. It is difficult to accept
this contention because even assuming that Article 224(1) is construed in
the manner suggested the Circular aims at transferring the sitting
Additional Judges not during their tenure but just on the expiry of their
term and if their continuance as permanent Judges (and not as Additional
Judges because the Circular talks of appointing them as permanent Judges)
does not involve a fresh appointment as held above, the question of
challenge to the Circular as being violative of Article 222(1) very much
survives. In Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , this
Court took the view that full and effective consultation by the President
with the Chief Justice of India under article 222(1) of the Constitution
implies that each individual case must be considered separately on the
basis of its own facts and" policy transfers on a wholesale basis which
leave no scope for considering each particular case and which are
influenced by one-side Governmental considerations are outside the
contemplation of our Constitution "(vide observations of Chandrachud, J.,
as he then was, at SCR page 454 : SCC page 227 of the Report). The transfer
of sitting Additional Judges contemplated by the Circular (for which their
consent is sought thereunder) are based on the policy to have one-third of
the Judges of a High Court from outside without each individual case being
considered on its own facts and merits and therefore such transfers based
on policy accepted or adopted by the Law Minister and/or the Union
Government would be outside the purview of Article 222(1). In any case, -
and this is important - it cannot be disputed that by procuring the consent
of the sitting Additional Judges for their transfers from their own High
Court to another before undertaking any consultation with the Chief Justice
of India clearly reduces the full and effective consultation contemplated
under that Article to a mere formality, if not to a mockery, for, it is
obvious that such consultation and the advice which Chief Justice will be
tendering following upon such consultation will not be of any use or avail
as the consent to such transfer shall have already been procured from the
concerned Additional Judges. The consultation and the resultant advice of
the Chief Justice will be robbed of its real efficacy in face of such pre-
obtained consent. The Circular which has such effect is clearly violative
of Article 222(1); in fact it will have to be regarded as having been
issued mala fide for a collateral purpose namely to bypass Article 222(1) and confront the Chief Justice of India with fait accompli when the
proposal to transfer such Additional Judge would be forwarded to him and as
such the same is illegal and unconstitutional and deserves to be struck
down. 656. The next challenge to the impugned Circular letter based on Article 14 also seems to be well founded and the same is irrespective of whether the
Circular letter deals with transfers of Additional Judges or their fresh
appointments and the initial appointments of the proposed appointees.
Briefly stated the contention is that in regard to the sitting Additional
Judges it makes an invidious distinction between those who would be
furnishing their consent and those who would not be doing so or would be
refusing to furnish their consent, inasmuch as the former would be at an
advantage while the latter will suffer a disadvantage and even within the
class of those who would be furnishing their consent it gives to the
Government unfettered and unguided power or discretion to pick and choose,
that is, to select some for being shifted to High Courts other than their
own while retain and appoint others in their own High Courts - which power
can be exercised either by way of punishment or by way of favouritism. It
is further pointed out that the Circular letter will encourage an
ignominious race amongst self-seeking Judges to look to the Government for
appointment as permanent Judges out of turn or select places which are
centres of power. Counsel further contended that even in regard to the
proposed appointees (either from the Bar or Services) recommended for their
initial appointments, though no question whatsoever may arise in case of
non-appointment, discrimination is bound to result in the case of those who
are appointed and who have furnished their consent inasmuch as from amongst
such consenting appointees the Government has unfettered and unguided power
to select some for being appointed to other High Courts and to appoint
others to their home-State High Courts. Thus discrimination is writ large
on the face of the Circular letter and the seeds of destruction of judicial
independence are inherent therein. 657. Dealing with the case of sitting Additional Judges first, it cannot be
disputed that the Circular letter intends to confer advantage to those who
would be furnishing their consent and make those who would not be giving
their consent or would be refusing to give their consent suffer a
disadvantage. This position emerges very clearly from what has been stated
by Shri Kankan in Paragraph 6 of his counter-affidavit filed in reply to
Shri Iqbal Chagla's petition. This is what he has categorically asserted : 658. Secondly, the Circular letter seems to confer unfettered and unguided
power on the Government to indulge in picking and choosing even within the
class of those Additional Judges who shall have furnished their consent in
the sense it will be up to the Government to select some from that class
for being shifted to High Courts other than their own and to retain and
appoint others in their own High Courts. In this behalf reliance has been
placed upon the statement made by the Law Minister on the floor of the
Parliament on April 16, 1981 to the effect that it is not the intention of
the Government to appoint all Additional Judges to outside High Courts.
This statement clearly suggests that the Government will be indulging in
picking and choosing while appointing some Additional Judges of outside
High Courts and retaining and appointing others in their own High Courts
and in the absence of any guide-lines the power can be exercised
arbitrarily, either by way of punishment or by way of favouritism as
pointed out by the petitioners. 659. As regards the proposed appointees (either from the Bar or Services)
recommended for their initial appointment, there will be no question of
discrimination in the case of those who have not been appointed at all but
in the case of consenting appointees discrimination is bound to arise
because of unfettered and unguided power or discretion vesting in the
Government to pick and choose from amongst the consenting appointees, for,
in their case also it will be up to the Government to decide and select
some for being appointed to High Courts other than their home-State High
Courts and appoint the others in their home-State High Courts. Having
regard to the aforesaid position it is abundantly clear that invidious
discrimination is writ large on the face of the circular letter and the
same is clearly violative of Article 14 and is such unconstitutional and
liable to be struck down. 660. In the result the impugned Circular letter, in my view, deserves to be
struck down for the aforesaid three reasons. 661. Coming to the specific individual case of Shri S. N. Kumar (respondent
3 in Transferred Case NO. 20 of 1981) it may be stated that the gravamen of
the challenge is directed against the President's action in dropping him
outright on the expiry of his extended short term on June 6, 1981, i.e.
during the pendency of the case before this Court and the action is
challenged by the petitioners as well as by Shri S. N. Kumar as being
violative of Article 224(1) as also Article 217(1) and hence illegal,
unconstitutional and void. Principally, it is contended that the decision
of the appointing authority not to continue but to drop him is vitiated by
legal mala fides inasmuch as assuming that the case is governed by Article
217(1) there has been no full or effective consultation between the
President and the other constitutional functionaries, particularly the
Chief Justice of India as contemplated by that Article and therefore the
said decision must be regarded as void and non est. The contesting
respondents have joined issue by asserting that there was full and
effective consultation as required by Article 217(1). 662. At the outset it may be stated that the petitioners had pleaded [vide
para 11(W) of Shri Tarkunde's petition] that the Chief Justice of Delhi
High Court and the Chief Justice of India had recommended extension to
three Judges (including Shri S. N. Kumar) for the full period of two years
but there was a half-hearted and vague denial thereof by Shri Kankan in his
counter-affidavit dated July 22, 1981 who merely stated that the aforesaid
statement that both the Chief Justices had recommended extension to the
concerned three Judges for two years was untrue and incorrect, without
specifying whether, if not both, any one had done so and if so who had
recommended it, and further if the recommendation was not for all the three
Judges it was for whom and if not for two years for what period ? A vague
denial like this meant no denial at all. Shri S. N. Kumar in his counter-
affidavit dated July 17, 1981 had also asserted that the Chief Justice of
Delhi High Court had told him and a number of his colleagues that he (Chief
Justice) had recommended the extension to the concerned three Judges
(including himself), to which there was a reply from Shri T. N. Chaturvedi,
Secretary (Justice) Government of India, in his affidavit dated August 25,
1981 to the effect that in the nature of things the Chief Justice of Delhi
High Court could not have told Shri S. N. Kumar that he had made a
recommendation in his (Shri S. N. Kumar's) favour and Shri Chaturvedi
further averred categorically :" I state that as a matter of fact there was
real and effective consultation with the two Chief Justices and the
President preferred the views of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court
which were not favourable for a further appointment of S. N. Kumar. "By
implication it became obvious that there was complete divergence between
the two Chief Justices in their views on the point of Shri S. N. Kumar's
continuance and that the Chef Justice of India had made a recommendation
favourable to Shri S. N. Kumar. In such state of pleadings a question
naturally arose whether this divergence has arisen on a consideration of
the same or identical material by both the Chief Justice or otherwise ?
Meanwhile, a newspaper report appearing in the issue of The Hindustan Times
of July 10, 1981 under the caption "Government overruled Chandrachud's
view", not merely stated that, though the Chief Justice of India had
dismissed the allegations against Shri S. N. Kumar as "unsubstantiated" and
had recommended his confirmation, the Government had placed greater
reliance on the views of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court but went
further and asserted, the reporter claiming to have had a look into the
files, that certain correspondence between the Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court and Union Law Minister had been marked for "Law Minister's eyes" 663. Having regard to the decisions of this Court in Chandramouleshwar
Prasad case ( Chandramouleshwar Prasad v. Patna High Court, and Sankalchand Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , it can now be regarded as well settled
that consultation implies a conference of two or more persons or an impact
of two or more minds in respect of a topic in order to enable them to
evolve a correct or at least a satisfactory solution and that in order that
the two minds may be able to confer and produce a mutual impact it is
essential that each must have for its consideration full and identical
facts, which can at once constitute both the source and foundation of the
final decision. It is equally well settled that consultation or
deliberation is not complete or effective before the parties thereto make
their respective points of views known to the other or others and discuss
and examine the relative merits of their views. In the latter decision
Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) has (at SCR page 453 of the Report)
observed : (SCC p. 227, para 37)

It must therefore, follow that while consulting the Chief Justice, the
President must make the relevant data available to him on the basis of
which, he can offer to the President the benefit of his considered
opinion..... The fulfilment by the President, of his constitutional
obligation to place full facts before the Chief Justice and the performance
by the latter, of the duty to elicit facts which are necessary to arrive at
a proper conclusion are parts of the same process and are complementary to
each other. Again, Krishna Iyer, J. (for himself, Bhagwati and Fazal Ali, JJ.) has (at
SCR page 495) observed thus : (SCC p. 267, para 103)We consult a physician
or a lawyer, an engineer or an architect and thereby we mean not casual but
serious, deliberate seeking of informed advice, competent guidance and
considered opinion. Necessarily, all the materials in the possession of one
who consults must be unreservedly placed before the consults. Further, a
reasonable opportunity for getting information, taking other steps and
getting prepared for tendering effective and meaningful advice must be
given to him. The consultant, in turn, must take the matter seriously since
the subject is of grave importance. The parties affected are high-level
functionaries and the impact of erroneous judgment can be calamitous. It is in the light of these well-settled principles concerning consultation
that the disclosed material will have to be scrutinised for deciding
whether in the instant case there has been full and effective consultation
between the President and the Chief Justice of India in the matter of the
impugned decision that was taken in regard to Shri S. N. Kumar. 664. In all 13 documents comprising correspondence between the Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court and the Union Law Minister, between the Chief
Justice of India and the Union Law Minister and between the Chief Justice
of Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India and some notings made by
the Union Law Minister have been disclosed. A perusal of this material
clearly shows that, though initially the non-recommendation of extension to
Shri S. N. Kumar was thought of on four grounds : (a) his behaviour in
Court, (b) his slow disposal, (c) his doubtful integrity based on
unverified and uninvestigated complaints and (d) adverse I.B. reports,
ultimately the decision to drop him, according to the Union Law Minister's
noting dated May 27, 1981, was based on and confined to the aspect
concerning his 'reputation and integrity' and the correspondence clearly
shows that the two Chief Justices held exactly divergent and opposite views
regarding the said ground on which the final decision was based. The
correspondence and notings bring out the following facts very clearly : (a)
the Delhi Chief Justice's view regarding Shri S. N. Kumar's integrity was
based on (i) serious complaints (both oral and in writing) received by him
against Shri S. N. Kumar, including some received from the Union Law
Minister himself and (ii) doubts expressed by some responsible Members of
the bar and some of his colleagues about his integrity; and while admitting
that he had no investigating agency to find out whether the complaints were
genuine or not, he informed the Union Law Minister that he could not
recommend Shri S. N. Kumar's continuance as in his view" reputation of
integrity is just as important as the person actually being above-board "; (b) the Chief Justice of India felt that the material mentioned by the
Delhi Chief Justice for doubting Shri S. N. Kumar's integrity was too vague
and his independent inquiries from the Members of the Bar and the Bench of
the Delhi High Court showed that Shri S. N. Kumar was a man of unquestioned
integrity and justified a favourable recommendation for his continuance; (c) the Chief Justice of India by his letter of March 14, 1981 had
requested the Delhi Chief Justice to furnish him with" further details"and"
concrete facts "in regard to the allegations against Shri S. N. Kumar and
the Union Law Minister also, in view of the insistence of the Chief Justice
of India, had by his letter of April 15, 1981 called for such "concrete
material" with his comments thereon from the Delhi Chief Justice so that
the basis on which he had formed his view about Shri S. N. Kumar's
reputation for integrity would be available to Government; (d) no" further
details"or" concrete facts or materials "as desired by the Chief Justice of
India were furnished to him by the Delhi Chief Justice but the Delhi Chief
Justice sent a Lengthy letter of five pages dated May 7, 1981 to the Union
Law Minister marked "Secret - for personal attention only" which contained
"further details and concrete materials" including references to specific
cases (with suits numbers and titles) wherein according to his Shri S. N.
Kumar's integrity had been doubted; and (e) the Delhi Chief Justice had,
both before and after the issuance of the aforesaid letter, during his
discussions with the Law Minister requested the latter that his letters
marked as above may be kept secret for his personal attention only, that is
to say, these may be avoided from being brought to the notice of the Chief
Justice of India and he also explained to him the reasons for the same and
the Laws Minister's notings show that he responded to that request; in
fact, by his letter of May 29, 1981 addressed to the Delhi Chief Justice,
which happens to be last letter in the file, the Union Law Minister has
placed on record the fact that, as per the request of the Delhi Chief
Justice, letters marked "Secret - for personal attention only", including
the letter of May 7, 1981, had been kept confidential from the Chief
Justice of India and had not been shown to him. In other words, it is
abundantly clear from the correspondence and notings that" further
details"or" concrete facts or materials "regarding Shri S. N. Kumar's
integrity, though specifically asked for by the Chief Justice of India,
were not furnished to him and the letter dated May 7, 1981 which contained
such further details and concrete facts or materials was deliberately kept
out of his way. 665. Counsel for the contesting respondents, however, pointed out that
after the Chief Justice of India had sent his letter of March 14, 1981 to
the Delhi Chief Justice calling for" further details"and" concrete facts ",
the two Chief Justices had a meeting on March 26, 1981 and an oral
discussion had taken place between the two, and counsel contended that
during this oral discussion the Delhi Chief Justice must have given these" 666. If the reasons, which prompted the Delhi Chief Justice to keep away
his communication of May 7, 1981 containing vital material in the shape of
" further details"and" concrete facts" from the Chief Justice of India, are
scrutinised - and these have been mentioned in the Law Minister's noting of
May 19, 1981 and his letter of May 29, 1981 - it will appear clear that
apart from being vague they show a lack of proper perception on his part of
the true nature of the obligations cast on him under the Constitution. In
substance the sum total of his reasons comes to this : (i) that he did not
want to be embarrassed by the likely disclosure of the contents of his
communication dated May 7, 1981 to Shri S. N. Kumar as had happened in the
case of his earlier communication dated February 19, 1981 to the Chief
Justice of India and (ii) that as he could not desist from expressing
without fear or favour what he felt about certain matters (in relation to
Shri S. N. Kumar) he communicated all that he wanted to say about him to
the Union Law Minister through his letter of May 7, 1981 but at the same
time because he was particular that his relations with Chief Justice of
India should not be spoiled he desired that the contents of that
communication should not be shown or made known to the Chief Justice of
India. As regards (i), all that can be said is that it is surprising how he
expected the Chief Justice of India not to put to Shri S. N. Kumar and seek
his explanation on whatever he had come to know against him from any source
including the Delhi Chief Justice; in fact, before supplying any material
to the Union Law Minister he himself ought to have apprised Shri S. N.
Kumar of all the material and all that he had heard about him and held
discussion with him to ascertain his version thereon and then conveyed both
sides of the picture to the other functionaries. As regards (ii), it must
be first observed that full and effective consultation as contemplated by Article 217(1) required of him to place all relevant and material facts
about Shri S. N. Kumar before the Chief Justice of India even at the cost
of spoiling of his relations with the Chief Justice of India if it came to
that and secondly, it was an unreal as well as erroneous apprehension on
his part that a full disclosure of facts and material about Shri S. N.
Kumar accompanied by his frank and honest opinion thereon would have
spoiled his relations with the Chief Justice of India; in any event
maintaining good and cordial relations with the Chief Justice of India was
thoroughly irrelevant in the context of discharging a constitutional
obligation. Having regard to the well-settled principles concerning
consultation referred to above it is clear that both the Union Law Minister
as well as Delhi Chief Justice have failed to discharge their
constitutional obligation in the matter of consultation contemplated under Article 217(1). In the first place, contrary to the principles laid down by this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Shethm that the President must make the relevant data available to the Chief
Justice of India for obtaining his considered opinion, the Union Law
Minister did not forward the complaints which he had received against Shri
S. N. Kumar to the Chief Justice of India (which he forwarded to the Delhi
Chief Justice); secondly, the Delhi Chief Justice did not forward " further
details"and" concrete facts or materials" touching Shri S. N. Kumar's
integrity to the Chief Justice of India in spite of the latter having
specifically called for the same, and thirdly between them the Union Law
Minister and the Delhi Chief Justice saw to it what the communication of
May 7, 1981 (from the Delhi Chief Justice to the Union Law Minister) which
contained " further details"and" concrete facts or materials" in regard to
the allegations of lack of integrity against Shri S. N. Kumar was kept
confidential from the Chief Justice of India and was not shown to him. It
is thus amply clear from the record that the facts which were taken into
consideration by the Union Law Minister and the Delhi Chief Justice and
which provided the basis to the appointing authority to arrive at the
impugned decision were not placed before the Chief Justice of India, and,
therefore, there was neither full nor effective consultation between the
President and the Chief Justice of India as required by Article 217(1) of
the Constitution. 667. There is another aspect relating the procedure that has to be followed
while undertaking such full and effective consultation namely, that the
procedure must ensure fair play qua the concerned Judge. That the scope and
ambit of consultation includes fair play qua the concerned Judge is clearly laid down in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , in the
context of question of the Judge's transfer and the same position must
obtain in regard to consultation under article 217(1) in the context of the
question of the continuance of an Additional Judge on the expiry of his
initial or extended term, especially when it has been held that such
Additional Judge has a legitimate expectancy and a right to be considered
for continuance either for another term or as a permanent Judge and the
consideration of his case would suffer grave infirmity and illegality
unless the consultation is again full and effective, that is to say, all
facts concerning him are before all the functionaries undertaking the
consultation including his version on facts allegedly adverse to him. In
other words, the procedure to be followed in such consultation under Article 217(1) qua an Additional Judge must ensure fair play in relation to
him. If a person has a right to be considered how can such right be
effective unless he has an opportunity to meet or explain the alleged
adverse material against him. Sans such opportunity his right to be
considered will be illusory and unreal. The question is whether the
procedure followed in Shri S. N. Kumar's case ensured fair play qua him. It
is clear from the record that " further details"and" concrete facts or
materials" in regard to the allegations of lack of integrity against Shri
S. N. Kumar were not put to him nor was his explanation thereon sought; and
there is no reason why Shri S. N. Kumar's averment that the said material
was never disclosed to him nor put to him by anybody should not be
accepted. The question of Chief Justice of India disclosing or putting to
him the said material obviously does not arise, for he himself was not
apprised of such " further details"and" concrete facts or materials" but
the same constituted the basis on which the Delhi Chief Justice and the
Union Law Minister acted leading to the impugned decision and therefore it
was up to the Delhi Chief Justice to have apprised Shri S. N. Kumar of such
material by telling him that the same is likely to be held against him and
by seeking his explanation or version thereon and it was up to the Union
Law Minister to see to it that such procedure was followed through the
Delhi Chief Justice before advising the appointing authority to act on the
same. The record does not show that anything of the kind was done and in
that sense also there was no full and effective consultation which vitiates
the impugned decision. In short in Shri S. N. Kumar's case it is quite
clear that both these high constitutional functionaries, namely the Union
Law Minister and the Delhi Chief Justice abdicated their constitutional
responsibility or to use Justice Krishna Iyer's language they utterly
failed to discharge their "accountability to the justice constituency". 668. The result is that the impugned decision against Shri S. N. Kumar is
vitiated by legal mala fides and as such must be held to be void and non
est and his case must go back to the President for reconsideration and
passing appropriate orders after the requisite consultation is undertaken
afresh, with due observance of adequate fair play. Writ Petition No. 274 of 1981 and Transferred Cases Nos. 2, 6 & 24 of 1981 669. In the above matters, with the resignation of Shri M. M. Ismail, Chief
Justice of Madras High Court which has become effective, this Court is only
concerned with the challenge made to the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh,
Chief Justice of Patna High Court to Madras High Court. Initially by a Writ
Petition No. 2224 of 1981 filed in the Patna High Court the challenge was
made by two lawyers, Shri D. N. Pandey and Shri Thakur Rampeti Sinha, the
Secretary and President respectively of Bihar State Socialist Lawyers'
Association to which Shri K. B. N. Singh was impleaded as respondent 3 but
after it was transferred to this Court and became the subject-matter of
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 at his request by this Court's order dated
September 15, 1981 Shri K. B. N. Singh was transposed as co-petitioner and
he has filed a self-contained comprehensive affidavit dated September 16,
1981 making all the necessary averments and submissions in support of the
challenge. 670. The brief facts concerning Shri K. B. N. Singh's transfer are these : 671. At the outset it may be stated that counsel for Shri K. B. N. Singh
and the other petitioners did not seriously press the contention that the
transfer of a Chief Justice from one High Court to another was not within
the purview of Article 222(1) for the reason that it was difficult to
maintain that a Chief Justice was not included or could not fall within the
expression "a Judge of a High Court"; similarly, having regard to the
conclusion reached in the earlier part of the judgment that consent cannot
be read in Article 222(1) and that the said article covers non-consensual
transfers it is unnecessary to deal with the second contention again at
this stage. The real questions that arise for determination in regard to
the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, therefore, are whether the transfer
has been ordered in public interest, whether there has been full and
effective consultation between the President and the Chief Justice of India
as required by Article 222(1) and whether the procedure that was followed
ensured fair play in the sense that Shri K. B. N. Singh was heard fully and
his say was taken into consideration before effecting his transfer. 672. On the aspects of the scope and limits of the power to transfer a
Judge under Article 222(1) and the built-in safeguards to prevent its abuse
this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , has clearly laid down that the said power is circumscribed by two
important safeguards, namely : (1) the exercise of the power is conditioned
by the requirements of public interest and cannot be exercised by way of
punishment and (2) there must be a full, complete and effective
consultation between the President and the Chief Justice of India before an
order under that article can be made. Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) has
observed (at SCR page 456 of the Report) thus : (SCC pp. 229-30, para 43) Article 222(1) postulates fair play and contains built-in safeguards in the
interests of reasonableness. In the first place, the power to transfer a
High Court Judge can be exercised in public interest only. Secondly, the
President is under an obligation to consult the Chief Justice of India
which means and requires that all the relevant facts must be placed before
the Chief Justice. Thirdly, he Chief Justice owes a corresponding duty,
both to the President and to the Judge who is proposed to be transferred,
that he shall consider every relevant fact before he tenders his opinion to
the President. In the discharge of this constitutional obligation, the
Chief Justice would be within his rights, and indeed it is his duty
whenever necessary, to elicit and ascertain further facts either directly
from the Judge concerned or from other reliable sources. The executive
cannot and ought not to establish rapport with the Judges which is the
function and privilege of the Chief Justice. In substance and effect,
therefore, the Judge concerned cannot have reason to complain of
arbitrariness or unfair play, if the due procedure is followed. It is by reference to these principles that the question will have to be
considered whether the impugned transfer is vitiated on any of the three
grounds mentioned above. 673. Learned counsel for the petitioners (including Shri K. B. N. Singh)
urged that the three grounds or aspects really get intermixed and will have
to be considered together in light of the relevant material on record and
according to counsel the material on record clearly shows that the impugned
transfer stands vitiated by the infirmities indicated in each of the said
grounds. Counsel contended that a mere recital in the Presidential
Notification that the transfer has been ordered by the President "after
consultation with the Chief Justice of India" is not enough and will not
avail the contesting respondents and when the factum of full and effective
consultation has been put in issue the respondents have to show
demonstrably that there has been such full and effective consultation as
contemplated by Article 222(1) and the material produced is lacking in this
behalf particularly when the normal procedure was reversed in that the
proposal for transfer in the instant case emanated from the Chief Justice
of India and further there was nothing to show whether the communication
received from the Chief Minister of Madras containing grounds of his
objection to the proposed transfer had been placed before the Chief Justice
of India. It was further contended that it has not been shown that the
transfer is in public interest or what category of public interest is being
served thereby. It was pointed out that there is a divergence between the
transferring authority (the President) and the Chief Justice of India as to
the reasons for which the impugned transfer has been made; whereas
according to the transferring authority it was in pursuance of a policy of
having all Chief Justices in every High Court from outside, according to
the Chief Justice of India it was a selective transfer made in an
appropriate case for strictly objective reasons, but the transfer could not
be for the reasons of the policy because that policy had not been then and
has not been even now finally formulated or adopted and if it is a
selective transfer it has been by way of punishment and therefore bad in
law. It was also contended that no reasons or grounds necessitating or
justifying the transfer nor materials in support thereof were ever
disclosed or discussed with Shri K. B. N. Singh by anyone on behalf of the
transferring authority or by the Chief Justice of India, that the advanced
age and serious illness of his mother and his other difficulties were not
properly considered and as such the procedure followed lacked fair play and
for all these reasons the impugned transfer deserves to be quashed or set
aside. 674. In view of the aforesaid contentions raised by the counsel for the
petitioners it will be necessary to indicate briefly the relevant material
on the record and ascertain what facts or aspects emerge clearly therefrom
so as to adjudicate upon the validity or otherwise of the grounds of attack
levelled against the impugned transfer. The entire relevant material
requiring analysis and consideration consists of; (a) self-contained
comprehensive affidavit dated September 16, 1981 of Shri K. B. N. Singh
filed after he was transposed as a co-petitioner containing all the
relevant averments and submissions in support of the challenge; (b)
counter-affidavit dated September 24, 1981 of Shri Kankan filed on behalf
of the Union of India; (c) rejoinder-affidavit dated September 28, 1981 of
Shri K. B. N. Singh in reply to Shri Kankan's counter-affidavit; (d)
counter-affidavit dated September 29, 1981 of the Chief Justice of India,
respondent 2; (e) rejoinder-affidavit dated October 16, 1981 of Shri K. B.
N. Singh in reply to the counter-affidavit of Chief Justice of India; (f)
relevant correspondence between the Chief Justice of India on the one hand
and the Union Law Minister and the Prime Minister on the other and between
the Chief Minister of Madras and the Union Law Minister contained in a file
pertaining to the impugned transfer disclosed by the Union Government
pursuant to this Court's order dated November 2, 1981; (g) relevant notings
in file No. 50/6/80-Jus pertaining to the appointment of Chief Justices of
Delhi High Court and Andhra Pradesh High Court in the context of the
proposed general policy of having all Chef Justices in various High Courts
from outside also disclosed pursuant to this Court's order dated November
18, 1981. 675. Reading items (f) and (g) together the following facts or aspect
emerge very clearly on the record :(1) a general policy to have Chief
Justices of all the High Courts from outside was being evolved by the Union
Government, who had almost decided to accept the basic principles
underlying it but had not finally formulated or adopted the same because
the mechanism or modality of procedure had yet to be decided upon and fixed
and the notings in file No. 50/6/80-Jus clearly show that the appointments
of the two Acting Chief Justices as permanent Chief Justices of Delhi High
Court and Andhra Pradesh High Court were made on the understanding that
they will be liable to be transferred "if eventually a decision is taken
that every Chief Justice must come from outside" ; (2) that the Government's view in regard to such policy was put across to
the Chief Justice of India but the Chief Justice of India was "firmly
opposed to a wholesale transfer of the Chief Justices of the High
Courts"and had stated," I take the view, which I have expressed from time
to time, that such transfers may be made in appropriate cases for strictly
objective reasons (vide letter dated December 7, 1980 from the Chief
Justice of India to the Union Law Minister). 676. Reading the correspondence at item (f) above, the following additional
facts or aspects emerge clearly : 677. Reading items (a) to (e) above, and particularly the self-contained
comprehensive affidavit of Shri K. B. N. Singh, counter-affidavit of the
Chief Justice of India and rejoinder-affidavit of Shri K. B. N. Singh in
reply thereto together and proceeding on the basis of points of convergence
only and excluding or ignoring the points of divergence between them
arising from their respective affidavits, the following additional facts or
aspects emerge very clearly : affidavit of Shri Kankan has denied that the impugned order was passed
without effective consultation between the President of India (meaning
acting on the advice of Council of Ministers) and the Chief Justice of
India and asserted that relevant considerations were taken into account by
the President (acting as above) and that the impugned transfer as been made
only in public interest and is not punitive in character. 678. To the aforesaid facts or aspects that emerge clearly from the
relevant materials on the record two more facts will have to be added as
having come on record through the statements made by the learned Solicitor-
General in answer to pointed queries made by the Court to elicit requisite
information and such a course was adopted by the Court with a view to avoid
burdening the record with additional files containing the notings which
were, however, produced for Court's inspection and these facts are :(9)
that pursuant to the executive instructions contained in the 1972
memorandum dealing with the procedure to be adopted in connection with the
appointment and transfer of Judges of High Courts the Union Law Minister
had ascertained the views of the concerned Chief Ministers, namely, the
Chief Minister of Madras, the Chief Minister of Kerala and the Chief
Minister of Bihar on January 3, 4 and 6, 1981 respectively, in the matter
of the proposed transfers; (10) that the effective decision on the impugned transfer was taken by the
Prime Minister on January 9, 1981 whereafter the necessary and relevant
papers were forwarded to the President of India and the impugned
notification was issued on January 19, 1981. 679. At the outset, I would like to observe that a needless controversy was
raised as to whether the impugned transfer has been a policy transfer (i.e.
a transfer pursuant to the policy of having Chief Justice of all the High
Courts from outside) or a selective transfer and a great deal of confusion
was added to it by the statement which the learned Solicitor-General
appearing on behalf of the Union of India was instructed to make during the
hearing. At discussed and explained in the earlier part of this judgment it
cannot be accepted as an invariably correct proposition that a policy
transfer would always be non-punitive in character or that a selective
transfer would necessarily be a punitive transfer. It has been pointed out
earlier that a policy to have one-third of the Puisne Judges of a High
Court from outside, in the absence of any mechanism or modality of
procedure giving guide-lines as to how that one-third number will be chosen
for implementing it, would obviously be fraught with the vice of
discrimination; similarly even the policy of having the Chief Justices of
all the High Courts from outside stands the risk of being abused by the
executive in the absence of proper guide-lines being provided in the matter
of regulation which Chief Justice will be posted in what particular High
Court. A policy transfer, therefore, without fixing the requisite mechanism
or modality of procedure that ensures complete insulation against executive
interference, could be a punitive transfer in the sense of having been
effected with some oblique motive whereas a selective transfer in an
appropriate case for strictly objective reasons and in public interest
could be non-punitive, with the result that each case of transfer, whether
based on a policy or a selective transfer, will have to be judged on the
facts and circumstances of its own for deciding whether it is punitive in
character in the sense of having been effected with some oblique motive or
not. In the instant case, having regard to the facts mentioned at Nos. 1
and 2 above, the impugned transfer must be regarded as a selective transfer
and not based on the policy in the contemplation of the Union Government,
notwithstanding the reference to 'Government Policy' made by the Chief
Justice of India during his telephonic talk with Shri K. B. N. Singh on
January 5, 1981. Since the impugned transfer order in the ultimate analysis
is of the transferring authority (the President) this Court wanted to know
from the learned Solicitor-General as to what were the reasons which
prompted the transferring authority to pass the impugned order and
therefore, a clarification was invited, but the statement that was made by
him on November 12, 1981, of course, under instructions from proper
quarters, instead of clarifying the position made it more puzzling. The
statement in substance was that the Chief Justice of India had suggested
certain transfers, including the impugned transfer, in pursuance of his own
view that transfers should be made in appropriate cases strictly for
objective reasons but the Government had acceded to the transfers proposed
by him as" (1) it was felt that not agreeing to these transfers may be
construed as though the Government is departing from the view of having
Chief Justices from outside : (2) the policy aspect could still be pressed
into service later ". The statement gives the impression that the
transferring authority agreed to the transfers because it did not want to
depart from its view of having Chief Justices from outside but at the same
time it categorically states that it was felt that the policy could be
pressed into service later; the second part of the statement clearly
suggests that the policy, which had not been till then clearly formulated,
could be and was to be pressed into service later meaning thereby that the
instant transfers were not in pursuance of the policy. Perhaps what is
sought to be conveyed is that each one of the instant transfers was a
selective transfers appropriately made strictly for objective reasons and
justified by reasons for which the Chief Justice of India had recommended
them but at the same time they indirectly helped the Government in
achieving the same result which would have been achieved had the transfers
been made in pursuance of the policy which the Government intended to have. That this was intended to be conveyed by the statement of November 12, 1981
has been made clear by the learned Solicitor-General later on, for, in his
written note filed before this Court on November 18, 1981, he has made the
following categorical statement :" The impugned transfer, though not in
pursuance of a policy decision, yet is a step forward which is consistent
with the view of appointing Chief Justices from outside. The impugned
transfer order, is, however, valid in that it satisfies the requirements of Article 222 ". In other words, even as a selective transfer the Union
Government found it justified for reasons given by the Chief Justice of
India and valid under Article 222(1) but at the same time accepting his
advice and recommendation amounted to taking a step forward in the
direction of their intended policy. But, even if it were assumed at the
highest that the two parties to the consultation (the transferring
authority and the Chief Justice of India) had different reasons for
agreeing to the ultimate result this cannot vitiate the consultation
contemplated by Article 222(1) , for, consultation, as has been pointed out
by this Court in Sankalchand Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , , requires the parties thereto to make their respective points of view
known to each other and discuss and examine the relative merits of their
views and as has been put aptly by Krishna Iyer, J. at SCR page 496 of the
report (SCC p. 268) :" Consultation is different from consentaniety. They
may discuss but may disagree; they may confer but may not concur. "But,
apart from this aspect of the matter it seems sufficiently clear that the
impugned transfer has been a selective transfer in the instant case and it
will have to be decided whether it properly falls within Article 222(1) ,
the same having been made after observing the safeguards of public interest
and effective consultation and after following the procedure that ensured
fair play. 680. The main question that arises in the case is whether the impugned
transfer, being a selective transfer, has been really made in public
interest or by way of punishment. In this behalf counsel for Shri K. B. N.
Singh has raised a twofold contention which has to be squarely dealt with.
In the first place it has been urged that merely asserting that the said
transfer has been made in public interest without categorising the public
interest served thereby would be of no avail; and secondly, it is clear on
record that during his visit to Patna in February 1980 the Chief Justice of
India had collected some data and information which showed that certain
persons were exploiting their proximity to Shri K. B. N. Singh and this had
created considerable misunderstanding and dissatisfaction in the working of
the High Court which seems to have necessitated or justified Shri K. B. N.
Singh's transfer and this certainly implies some reflection on Shri K. B.
N. Singh's behaviour and the inference is unescapable that the transfer is
by way of punishment and that too is made without disclosing the data or
particulars to him amounting to unfair play. It is not possible to accept
either of these two contentions for the reasons which I will presently
indicate. It is not correct to say that the contesting respondents have
been merely asserting baldly that the impugned transfer has been made in
public interest without categorising the public interest served thereby.
Actually two categories of public interest have been indicted by the Chief
Justice of India in his counter-affidavit; so far as the shifting of Shri
K. B. N. Singh from Patna High Court is concerned the reason indicated is
that certain persons were exploiting their proximity to Shri K. B. N. Singh
which has created considerable misunderstanding and dissatisfaction in the
working of the High Court and surely remedying dissatisfactory working
conditions in a High Court serves one king of high public interest; and so
far as his posting at Madras high Court is concerned, the Chief Justice of
India felt that it would be in fitness of things that an experienced and
senior Chief Justice like Shri K. B. N. Singh be posted as the Chief
Justice of one of the premier High Courts in the country. It is difficult
to countenance any suggestion that either of these considerations which
weighed with the Chief Justice of India does not serve public interest. The
first contention, therefore, must be rejected. Coming to the punishment
aspect strenuously pressed by counsel for Shri K. B. N. Singh I would like
to observe that it will not be correct to draw an inference of the
concerned Judge's connivance or complicity in every case where persons
close to him exploit their proximity to him while handling their matters in
the High Court and in the absence of any connivance or complicity on his
part, such exploitation of close proximity would not imply any reflection
on the Judge concerned. It is conceivable that undesirable activities are
indulged in without his knowledge or consent - any even against his wishes
and sometimes despite counter measures adopted by him, and yet such
exploitation of close proximity and the undesirable activities would spoil
the atmosphere and lead to dissatisfactory working conditions in the High
Court. In such a case if the atmosphere has to be improved and
dissatisfactory working conditions have to be remedied it may become
inevitable to transfer the concerned Judge without any blame attaching to
him whatsoever; it is obvious that such a transfer will not carry any
reflection on him. Further if the data or information, which leads to the
discovery of dissatisfactory working conditions in the High Court, were
also to indicate the concerned Judge's connivance or complicity in the
exploitation then only the question of putting the same to him will arise
but not otherwise. The instant case seems to be of that type, for, during
his discussion with Shri K. B. N. Singh the Chief Justice of India had
repeatedly told him that it was not his practice to take into account any
baseless complaints, that he did not believe that his (Shri K. B. N.
Singh's) conduct was blameworthy in any manner and even when he mentioned
this particular aspect about certain persons exploiting their proximity to
him which had led to needless misunderstanding and dissatisfactory working
conditions in the High Court he specifically assured him that he was not to
blame for it nor responsible for it. No material appears to have been
placed before Chief Justice of India by anyone even remotely suggesting
that there was any connivance or complicity on the part of Shri K. B. N.
Singh in the matter of exploitation of proximity leading to dissatisfactory
working conditions in Patna High Court and there is no reason why the
statement of the Chief Justice of India that Shri K. B. N. Singh was not
responsible nor was to blame for it should not be accepted. In the absence
of any connivance or complicity on his part in the matter of the
exploitation, no reflection on Shri K. B. N. Singh is implied simply by
reason of his transfer, which must be regarded as having been made, with a
view to remedying the dissatisfactory working conditions in that High Court
and no unfair play was involved in the procedure followed by the Chief
Justice of India. In the circumstances it is clear that the impugned
transfer has been in public interest and not by way of punishment. 681. On the question whether there has been full and effective consultation
between the transferring authority (the President) and the Chief Justice of
India it is true that a mere recital in the impugned notification dated
January 19, 1981 about such consultation will not be of much avail
especially when the factum of such full and effective consultation has been
put in issue but here the contesting respondents' case on that aspect does
not rest merely on the recital to be found in the impugned notification but
they have produced sufficient material on record to show that there was
full and effective consultation as contemplated by Article 222(1) before
the impugned order was made. On the question as to whether there was
consultation between the transferring authority on the one hand and the
Chief Justice of India on the other and if so, what transpired during such
consultation Shri K. B. N. Singh obviously has no personal knowledge and
one will have to consider what one or both the parties to the consultative
process have to say on the matter. It is well known that in writ
proceedings the affidavits, counter-affidavits and rejoinder-affidavits
filed by the parties constitute not merely their pleadings but also partake
of the character of evidence in the case and it is from this angle that the
counter-affidavits filed on behalf of the contesting respondents,
particularly that of the Chief Justice of India, a party to the
consultative process, will have to be examined. Keeping the recital about
the consultation with him that is to be found in the impugned notification
aside, there is a positive statement on oath made by the Chief Justice of
India in his counter-affidavit dated September 29, 1981 that there was full
and effective consultation between him and the President of India on the
question of Shri K. B. N. Singh's transfer from Patna to Madras and that
every relevant aspect of that question, which would include the language
difficulty involved as well as the personal difficulty of Shri K. B. N.
Singh, was discussed by him fully with the President both before and after
he had proposed the transfer and it is obvious that this statement of the
Chief Justice of India partakes of the character of the evidence seeking to
prove the factum and contents of the consultation. Far from there being
anything on record which may detract from this averment, there is positive
other material on record to corroborate the same. The correspondence file
disclosed by the Union Government clearly shows that the question of Shri
K. B. N. Singh's transfer was discussed and considered fully by and between
the Chief Justice of India on the one hand and the Union Law minister and
the Prime Minister representing the transferring authority on the other not
merely through correspondence but also orally in meetings and over
telephone. Presumably basing himself on this correspondence file Shri
Kankan in his counter-affidavit dated September 24, 1981 has denied that
the impugned order was passed without effective consultation between the
Chief Justice of India and the President of India (of course meaning the
President as the constitutional head acting on the advice of Council of
Ministers) and has further asserted that the relevant considerations were
taken into consideration by the President (acting as such). It was argued
that the data collected by the Chief Justice of India during his visit to
Patna High Court in February 1980 does not seem to have been placed before
either the Union Law Minister or the Prime Minister but such an argument
has to be rejected because the Chief Justice of India's letter dated
December 7, 1980 to the Union Law Minister, wherein the reference to the
collection of such data by the Chief Justice of India as a result of his
discussion with several lawyers and Judges of the concerned High Courts and
to his having considered the same with greatest objectivity has been made,
itself states that the same was written "in furtherance of" the discussion
which both of them had on the previous day i.e. on December 6, 1980, on
many an important matter concerning the High Courts. It was also argued
that the statement of the Chief Justice of India in his counter-affidavit
that he had discussed the question of impugned transfer with the President
of India is vague inasmuch as it has not been clarified as to with whom
from the side of the transferring authority he had these discussions,
whether with the Union Law Minister or with the Prime Minister or with the
President himself personally; this argument has also to be rejected, for
the relevant correspondence disclosed by the Union Government clearly shows
that the Chief Justice of India had these discussions about the impugned
transfer both with the Union Law Minister and the Prime Minister and
neither the Chief Justice of India nor Shri Kankan has suggested that the
Chief Justice of India had discussed the question personally with the
President of India. When the correspondence indicates clearly the two
functionaries from the side of the transferring authority with whom the
Chief Justice of India and discussions and there being no whisper either
from the Chief Justice of India or from Shri Kankan that there were
personal discussions with the President, it is ridiculous to suggest that
the statement of the Chief Justice of India in that behalf is vague. With
this material on record I did not appreciate the necessity or desirability
of any clarificatory statement coming from the President that the issue was
never discussed by the Chief Justice of India with him personally. What is
more, it is surprising that in face of such correspondence showing
discussion on the subject with the Union Law Minister the Solicitor-General
should have been instructed to make a statement which he did no November
12, 1981 to the effect" the Chief Justice of India mentioned to the Law
Minister about his proposal to transfer Shri K. B. N. Singh ". The twist
given in the statement that the Solicitor-General was instructed to make
cannot escape this Court's attenuation. Why was it necessary ? Be that as
it may the material on record clearly shows that the impugned transfer was
fully discussed by the Chief Justice of India with the Union Law Minister
and the Prime Minister. It was also faintly argued that the last discussion
between the Chief Justice of India and Shri K. B. N. Singh having taken
place in the evening at about 7.30 p.m. on January 8, 1981, the matter
could not have been discussed further between the Chief Justice of India
and the transferring authority before the effective and final decision was
taken by the Prime Minister which is said to have been done by her on
January 9, 1981. The argument is merely required to be stated to be
rejected, for even after the last discussion between the Chief Justice of
India and Shri K. B. N. Singh was over there was ample time and opportunity
for the Chief Justice of India to put across all that transpired between
him and Shri K. B. N. Singh together with his reaction thereon either to
the Union Law Minister or the Prime Minister or to both orally either in a
meeting or on the telephone before the final and effective decision on the
impugned transfer was taken by the Prime Minister. From the material
produced on record, therefore, it is abundantly clear that there was full
and effective consultation between the transferring authority on the one
hand and the Chief Justice of India on the other in regard to the impugned
transfer as contemplated by Article 222(1) before the effective decision
thereon was taken, and if the consultation has been full and effective as
contemplated by Article 222(1) , as is shown by the material produced on
record, the contention that the normal procedure ought not to have been
reversed and the proposal should have emanated from the President and not
from the Chief Justice of India as is the case here loses its significance.
Moreover, there is no hard and fast rule as to from whom a proposal for
transfer should emanate. 682. On the last aspect as to whether the procedure followed by the Chief
Justice of India ensured fair play in relation Shri K. B. N. Singh or not
the material on record clearly shows that the Chief Justice of India had
discussed all the relevant aspects concerning the impugned transfer with
Shri K. B. N. Singh including his personal difficulty pertaining to his
mother's advanced age and serious illness. That the Chief Justice of India
took a different view about it does not mean that any unfair play was
involved. After all in his view public interest outweighed the
considerations of personal difficulty as well as the language difficulty
which were put before him. As discussed earlier there being no charge nor
any imputation against Shri K. B. N. Singh there was no question of giving
him an opportunity to meet any. It is thus clear that the procedure that
was followed ensured complete fair play qua Shri K. B. N. Singh. 683 . It was next contended by counsel for Shri K. B. N. Singh that the
Executive Instructions in para 12 of the Memorandum of 1972, containing the
procedure to be adopted in connection with transfers of High Court Judges
issued by the Central Government, in the matter of consultation or
ascertainment of the views of the Chief Ministers of the States involved in
a transfer had not been followed in this case. The contention was, however,
not pressed when the learned Solicitor-General after consulting the
relevant files, made a statement at the Bar that in the instant case the
Union Law Minister had consulted and/or ascertained the views of the Chief
Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Bihar on January 3, 4, and 6, 1981
respectively in the matter of the proposed transfers. Further, in my view
the question whether the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's letter pointing out
language difficulties was actually placed before the Chief Justice of India
or not would not be material if the Chief Justice of India was apprised of
the grounds of objection based on language difficulty and he had considered
them and the material shows that the Chief Justice of India had taken into
consideration the objections based on language difficulty 684. Counsel for Shri K. B. N. Singh in the last resort faintly urged that
simultaneously with the passing of the impugned order the provisions of Article 222(2) ought to have been complied with and since no order fixing
compensatory allowance to Shri K. B. N. Singh was passed upon his transfer
the impugned transfer order would be invalid. It is impossible to accept
such a contention, for, Article 222(2) does not provide that the order
fixing compensatory allowance to the transferee Judge has to be issued
simultaneously along with the transfer order; all that it provides is that
when a Judge has been or is transferred after complying with the
requirements of sub-article (1) he shall, during the period he serves as a
Judge of the other High Court, be entitled to receive, in addition to his
salary, such compensatory allowance as may be determined by Parliament by
law and, until so determined, such compensatory allowance as the President
may by order fix. It is obvious that such an order fixing the compensatory
allowance could follow and would have followed in the instant case within
reasonable time but here the occasion to make such order got postponed
because of the stay of transfer that was ordered by this Court. 685. In the result it is clear that the impugned transfer must be held to
be a valid transfer under Article 222(1) of the Constitution. 686. Before parting with these cases I would like to place on record my
sense of appreciation and gratitude to all the learned counsel who have
rendered great assistance to the Court by arguing their respective points
with exceptional ability and skill. I have always held the view that the
quality of judgment rendered by a Court varies in direct proportion to the
quality of assistance received by it from counsel appearing before it and
whatever little I have been able to do in these cases it is mainly due to
the excellent assistance received from counsel and I thank them. At the
same time I cannot help keeping on record a feeling of uneasiness which I
entertained during the hearing of Shri K. B. N. Singh 's case because of the
manner in which that case was conducted by the contesting respondents
through the learned Solicitor-General, for which I hasten to add, that the
Solicitor-General is not at all responsible, though on occasions he was
required to do some tightrope walking, obviously under instructions. On
more occasions than one I was left in doubt whether they were really
interested in having the transfer order upheld. The statement which the
Solicitor-General was instructed to make on November 12, 1981 in which a
twist was given suggesting, contrary to the documentary record, that the
Chief Justice of India had, instead of "discussing" the proposal of
transfer, "mentioned" the same to the Law Minister, cannot be otherwise
explained. I have already mentioned that I have failed to appreciate the
desirability or necessity of the statement made on behalf of the President
of India disowning the "personal discussion" with the Chief Justice of
India on the issue of transfer, especially when the latter had not raised a
whisper about such personal discussion. After all is said and done, it must
be observed that while acting administratively the attitude and behaviour
of the Chief Justice of India was befitting the pater familias of the
Judiciary. The way he dealt with the cases of Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri K.
B. N. Singh has been objective and judicious - by refusing to rely on
unconfirmed reports, rumours or gossip in the case of the former, and by
following a procedure that ensured fair play in the case of the latter. 687. The other aspect, I would like to refer to is the manner in which a
section of the Press has behaved in this case. I am constrained to observe
that a section of the Press while reporting the proceedings of this Court
in this case seems to have, without fully realising the scope and purpose
of the disclosure ordered by the Court, exceeded its limits of fair
reporting and fair comment by discussing the merits and demerits of the
grounds on which recommendations were made concerning the Judges or the
truth or falsity of the disclosed material; assuming that this Court was
intending to adjudicate on the merits or demerits of the grounds of the
recommendations made or on truth or falsity of the materials even then how
could the Press, before this Court has finally adjudicated upon the issues
involved, pronounce its verdict - which it almost did - on the high
constitutional functionaries involved by holding a trial by Press ? The
disclosure, which became necessary in the Highest public interest of
administration of justice - for seeing that injustice was not perpetrated
and justice was meted out to high judicial functionaries under the
Constitution, was not intended for being used for such purpose. Such
behaviour of a section of the Press has been most distressing and has
unnecessarily affected the image of Judiciary and the high constitutional
functionaries involved. 688. In conclusion I would pass the following order : Desai, J. - March 18, 1981, till law courts and lawyers in their present
form and structure survive, would be remembered as a day that raised a
storm of controversy leading to a spate of writ petitions in different High
Courts in the country. The Law Minister of the Government of India selected
that fateful day for issuing a circular, forwarded it to the Chief
Ministers of all States and the Governor of Punjab requesting them to
obtain the consent of Additional Judges working in the High Court in their
respective States with preference limited to three stations, for being
appointed as permanent Judges in High Court other than the High Court in
which they are, at present, appointed and functioning. A similar consent
was also to be obtained from those who may be recommended in future for
appointment as Judges of the High Court. 690. It appears that the first salvo was fired by Shri S. P. Gupta,
Advocate practising in the Allahabad High Court who filed a writ petition
in the Allahabad High Court impleading President of India, Union of India,
Chief Justice of India, Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court and Governor
of State as respondents praying for a writ, direction or order in the
nature of mandamus directing the President to appoint Judges of the High
Court in accordance with the constitutional scheme etc. There was also a
prayer for a direction to appoint three named judges as permanent Judges
but this prayer was not pressed. This petition was filed, it appears, on
the very day on which the circular was issued. After it was admitted, the
petition was twice amended with the leave of the Court, the first order
being dated May 1, 1981 and the second being July 20, 1981. Respondent 1,
President of India, Respondent 3, Chief Justice of India and Respondent 5,
Governor of Uttar Pradesh were subsequently dropped and their names from
the array of respondents were deleted. This petition stood transferred to
this Court by the order dated May 1, 1981, and it was registered as
Transferred Case No. 19 of 1981. 691. After the issue of the impugned circular dated March 18, 1981, some
events occurred which may be briefly noticed. The initial term of
appointment of three Additional Judges of Delhi High Court, Mr. O. N.
Vohra, Mr. S. N. Kumar and Mr. S. B. Wad expired on March 6, 1981, and each
of them was appointed as an Additional Judge for a period of three months.
This short-term extension presumably provoked Shri J. L. Kalra and some
others, practising advocates, to file Writ Petition No. 636 of 1981 on
March 26, 1981, in the High Court of Delhi impleading Union of India as the
sole respondent. A number of prayers have been made in this petition, one
which deserves mention is that a direction be issued that Shri N. N.
Goswami, Shri Sultan Singh and Shri O. N. Vohra, three Additional Judges of
the High Court of Delhi be appointed as permanent Judges and a further
direction that the term of Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri S. B. Wad, Additional
Judges functioning in the same Court be extended for a period of two years.
By an order made by this Court on May 1, 1981, his writ petition stood
transferred to this Court and is registered as Transferred Case No. 21 of
1981. 692. As a sequel to the issuance of the impugned circular dated March 18,
1981, a special general meeting of the Advocates Association of Western
India was held at Bombay on April 3, 1981, where a resolution was adopted
questioning the propriety of obtaining the consent of Additional Judges to
be appointed as permanent Judges in other High Courts in advance and
further resolved to lodge a strong protest with the Union of India. A
similar resolution appears to be adopted by the Bombay Bar Association at
its Extraordinary General Meeting held on April 7, 1981. Ultimately Shri
Iqbal M. Chagla and three other advocates filed a Writ Petition No. 527 of
1981 in the High Court of Bombay questioning inter alia that the circular
issued by the Law Minister on March 18, 1981 be declared ultra vires and
void and as a consequence, consent, if any given, and consequent action, if
any, taken, be declared null and void. An injunction was sought restraining
the respondents from implementing the impugned circular and an interim
relief in terms of this prayer was also sought. The respondents impleaded
were the Law Minister, Union of India and ten Additional Judges of Bombay
High Court. This petition was admitted and rule nisi was issued and ad
interim injunction was granted. This led to filing of an appeal by Union of
India before a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court. Subsequently by an
order of this Court, this case stood transferred to this Court under Article 139-A and is registered as Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981. 693. Shri V. M. Tarkunde, former Judge of Bombay High Court and Senior
Advocate practising in the Supreme Court, General Secretary of the Citizens
for Democracy and President of the People's Union for Civil Liberties filed
Writ Petition No. 882 of 1981 in the High Court of Delhi on April 22, 1981,
impleading initially Union of India as the sole respondent. It appears that
subsequently the Law Minister and one Mr. P. K. Kathpalia, Additional
Secretary, Department of Justice were impleaded as respondents 2 and 3
respectively. The petitioner also filed CMP No. 13425 of 1981 requesting
this Court to direct that Mr. Justice O. N. Vohra and Mr. Justice S. N.
Kumar be impleaded as respondents. Civil Miscellaneous Petition was allowed
by the order dated July 7, 1981. Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar,
Additional Judges of Delhi High Court who were given extension for there
months commencing from March 6, 1981, to June 5, 1981, were impleaded as
respondents 4 and 5. Of the two Additional Judges so impleaded respondent 5
Shri S. N. Kumar has participated in the proceedings and has appeared
through his counsel Shri R. K. Garg. The principal question raised was that
independence of judiciary being the basic and fundamental feature of our
Constitution, any action of the executive which would be subversive of the
independence of judiciary, must be declared unconstitutional. It was stated
that the circular of the Law Minister of March 18, 1981, directing the
Chief Ministers of States to obtain consent of an Additional Judge for
being posted as permanent Judge in other High Court giving him an option to
disclose his preference limited to three stations and a similar consent to
be obtained in advance from a person to be recommended for appointment as a
Judge of the High Court is subversive of the independence of judiciary. It
was submitted that the extension of the term of an Additional Judge or his
appointment as a permanent Judge cannot be left to the unfettered
discretion of the executive because it would make a serious inroad on the
independence of judiciary. Another important contention raised in the
petition was whether short-term extension of Additional Judges is
permissible under Article 224 and whether it is open to the executive to
appoint Additional Judges leaving vacancies in the permanent strength of
the High Court Judges unfilled, even though he arrears are mounting. A
specific contention was raised with specific reference to the position of
the Delhi High Court alleging that it would be contrary to the
constitutional intendment underlying Article 216 to maintain half the
strength of the Delhi High Court as Additional Judges. This petition under
an order made by this Court stood transferred to this Court under Article
139-A and is registered as Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981. 694. In all these petitions, Mr. K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary in the
Department of Justice, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs has
filed his counter-affidavit with regard to the circular of the Law Minister
and other contentions. It was stated that the present government is vitally
concerned in maintaining the independence of judiciary and in the
administration of justice according to the rule of law. With regard to the
circular dated March 18, 1981, issued by the Law Minister, it was submitted
that the circular is not meant to be covert method to transfer Judges from
one High Court to other High Court circumventing the requirements of Article 222(1) or ratio of the decision in Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth . It was in terms stated that the failure of the judge to give consent
would not be a relevant factor while considering him for appointment as a
permanent Judge or for a second term as an Additional Judge, as the case
may be. It was stated that the appointment of Additional Judges for two
years or for shorter period has been done after following the
constitutional provision in this regard and keeping the public interest in
view. With regard to the second appointment of an Additional Judge after
the expiry of the first term, it was stated that it is a fresh appointment
and fresh warrant has to be issued and judge has to take a fresh oath as
prescribed and, therefore, the full round of consultation under Article 217 will have to be gone through. Reference was made to the guide-lines
prescribed for the disposal of cases by a High Court Judge and these guide-
lines provide a yardstick for calculating the number of Additional Judges.
It is also stated that the strength of the Delhi High Court was raised in
June 1979, and a proposal of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court for
sanction of two extra judges was approved. Short-term appointments were
sought to be justified on the plea that there were valid reasons for such
short-term appointments and privilege was claimed against disclosure of
papers relating to appointment of Additional Judges. It was specifically
denied that the circular was meant to be utilised for transfer of Judges
circumventing the requirements of Article 222. It was stated that
complaints have been received about the prejudicial attitude of certain
Judges including Additional Judges, bred by kinship and other local links
and affiliations. Political links have also been mentioned in certain cases
and various State authorities have expressed their reservations about
continuance of some Additional Judges. These matters were generally
mentioned to the constitutional authorities. There is an averment in the
affidavit that it is not the intention of the Government to appoint every
Additional Judge in another State. This is specifically referred to because
a serious controversy developed that the Government wants to arm itself
with power to pick and choose judges for transfer outside the State and
that this would provide an opportunity for extending political patronage so
that Judges, to avoid harassment of being appointed to a High Court outside
their State may lean towards the Government for their survival. Explaining
the raison d'etre it was stated that the purpose behind the circular dated
March 18, 1981, was to take steps in the direction of having outsider in
the High Court to help in the process of national integration and also to
improve the functioning of various High Courts by having in each High Court
the presence of a number of Judges who would not be swayed by local
considerations or affected by the issues which arouse passions and
emotions. Support was drawn for this statement from the 14th Report of the
Law Commission and from the latest 80th Report of the Law Commission
presided over by Mr. H. R. Khanna and from the study group set up by the
Administrative Reforms Commission. It was in terms admitted that the
Additional Judge is not a judge on probation. It was stated that short-term
appointments are made pending the final decision, a thing which would
appear objectionable in view of the mandate of Article 224. Power was
claimed by the executive to appoint any Additional Judge for any shorter
period as may be considered justified. If conceded, this can lead to a
logical absurdity, namely, from day to day, the situation very difficult
even to conceive in any form of political society one may think of.
However, a mitigating circumstance was pleaded that Additional Judges for
shorter periods have been appointed in special circumstances and only when
there are exceptional factors necessitating appointments for shorter
periods. In respect of Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar, it was stated
that the short-term appointment was made to enable the Government to take a
final view having regard to the complaints that have been received against
some of them after consultation with the constitutional authorities. The
statement in the petition that the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and
Chief Justice of India both had recommended the appointment of these two
Judges for a further period of two years was denied. It appears that the
Chief Justice of Delhi High Court had not recommended Shri S. N. Kumar for
appointment as Additional Judge after expiry of his initial term of two
years on March 6, 1981. The incorrect averment in the petition has found
its place in an order made by the Vacation Judge on June 6, 1981. At the
appropriate place, it will be pointed out that Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court had, for his reasons, declined to recommend appointment of Shri S. N.
Kumar as an Additional Judge on the expiry of his first term on March 6,
1981. 695. As almost identical contentions have been raised by Mr. Kankan in the
various affidavits filed by him in every case, it is not necessary to
recapitulate them here except recalling one averment made in his counter-
affidavit filed on July 6, 1981, in reply to the petition filed by Shri
Iqbal M. Chagla and others in Bombay High Court because it was the subject-
matter of debate. In para 9(VII) it is stated that the data collected
pursuant to the circular issued by the Law Minister would be made available
to the Chief Justice of India, Chief Justice of the High Court concerned
and the Governor of the State. The submission was that the circular was
issued for data collection is a subterfuge resorted to, to provide an
innocent cloak to a dagger aimed at independence of judiciary. 696. It may be briefly mentioned here that Writ Petition No. 274 of 1981
filed in this Court and Transferred Cases Nos. 2, 6 and 24 of 1981 were
listed to be heard along with the present batch of cases with a view to
avoiding the repetition of the arguments on points common to both sets of
cases. In the first group of cases the question of construction of Article
217 , 224 and other connected articles prominently figured in the context of
circular of the Law Minister dated March 18, 1981, seeking consent of
Additional Judges for being appointed as permanent Judges in other High
Court and the short-term extensions given to Shri O. N. Vohra, Shri S. N.
Kumar and Shri S. B. Wad, Additional Judges of Delhi High Court and the
final non-appointment of Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar. The
submission was that the circular of the Law Minister manifests a covert
attempt to transfer Additional Judges from one High Court to other High
Court without consulting the Chief Justice of India as required by Article
222(1) and thereby circumventing the majority decision in Sheth case . The central theme
was the scope, ambit and content of consultation which the President must
have with the three constitutional functionaries set out in Article 217(1). In the second group of cases, the question arose in the context of transfer
of Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of Patna High Court as Chief Justice
of Madras High Court consequent upon the transfer of Shri M. M. Ismail,
Chief Justice of Madras High Court as Chief Justice of Kerala High Court by
Presidential Notification dated January 19, 1981, in exercise of the power
conferred upon him by Article 222. The controversy centred down the scope,
ambit and content of consultation that the President must have with the
Chief Justice of India before exercising the power to transfer under Article 222. Thus, the scope, ambit and content of consultation under Article 217 as also one of Article 222 which, as Mr. Seervai stated, was
more or less the same though the different facts on which consultation must
be focussed may differ in the case of transfer and in the case of
appointment, figured prominently in both the groups of cases. The
parameters of scope, ambit and content of consultation both under Articles
217(1) , 222 and 224 , were drawn on a wide canvas to be tested on the
touchstone of independence of judiciary being the fighting faith and
fundamental and basic feature of the Constitution. It was stated that if
the consultation itself is to provide a reliable safeguard agains arbitrary
and naked exericse of power against judiciary, the procedure of
consultation must be so extensive as to cover all aspects of the matter and
it must be made so firm and rigid that any contravention or transgression
of it would be treated as mala fide or subversive of independence of
judiciary and the decision can be corrected by judicial review. Therefore,
at the outset it is necessary to be properly informed as to the concept of
independence of judiciary as set out in the Constitution. 697. The entire gamut of arguments revolved principally round the
construction of Articles 217 and 224 in one batch of petitions and Article
222 in another batch but the canvas was spread wide covering various other
articles of the Constitution, analogous provisions in previous Government
of India Acts, similar provisions in other democratic constitutions and
reports of Law Commission. Rival constructions canvassed centred upon the
pivotal assumption that independence of judiciary is a basic and
fundamental feature of the Constitution which has its genesis in the power
of judicial review which enables the court to declare executive and
legislative actions ultra vires the Constitution. In this connection we are
not starting on clean slate as the contention in this very form and for an
avowed object was widely canvassed in Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth v. Union
of India (1976 17 Guj LR 1017 (FB)), and in Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth . Some additional dimensions were added to this basic concept of
independence of judiciary while both the parties vide with each other as in
the past (see statement of Shri S. V. Gupte, then Attorney-General in Sheth case , on
proclaiming heir commitment to independence of judiciary though in its
scope and content and approach there was a marked divergence. 698. Petitioners in both the batches of petitions passionately asserted
that independence of judiciary is the basic postulate of our Constitution
and any interpretation of the articles in the fasciculus of articles
relating to judiciary must keep it inviolate. The construction, asserted
the petitioners, which would make any inroad on the absolute independence
of judiciary must be rejected because the entire edifice of Parliamentary
democracy as envisioned in our Constitution rests on the firm structural
foundation of the independence of judiciary. It was asserted that
Parliamentary democracy of Westminster model with a written Constitution
and with division of functions amongst the three branches of the
Government, the executive, the legislature and the judiciary postulate that
where a transgression of power takes place there must be a body of
independent persons with power to correct deviations, so that all
constitutional functionaries act within the framework of the power and
perform duties as envisaged by the Constitution. This role, it was averred,
rightly belongs and has been unreservedly assigned to the judiciary 'as a
sentinel on qui vive' and in order that this branch which has a duty to
check excess or transgression of or arbitrary exercise of power, functioned
'without fear or favour' and solely committed 'to the upholding of the
Constitution' must be free wholly and unreservedly from the other more
powerful organs of the Indian polity, namely, the executive and the
legislature. 699. Developing this submission reference was made to various provisions of
the Constitution and the interpretation put on some of those provisions by
the decisions of this Court. It was urged that independence of judiciary
has been put beyond the plea of controversy in the Court but this Court
must spell out its contours and limits, the fringes and the horizon, so
that wherever an intrusion takes place or an erosion is threatened it can
be checkmated by judicial review. 700. A reference to some of the important provisions of the Constitution
would bear repetition though they have been enumerated at length in Sheth case . Taking
cue from the Act of Settlement of the United Kingdom and Section 220(2) of
the Government of India Act, 1935, whereby tenure of Judges was altered
from King's pleasure to one during good behaviour, in U.K. and India
respectively, Article 217(1) and Article 124(2) ensure tenure during good
behaviour up to the age of 62 and 65 years respectively to the High Court
and Supreme Court Judges. Article 202(3)(d) and Article 112(3)(d)(i) provide that expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowances of High
Court Judges and the salaries and allowances and pensions payable to Judges
of the Supreme Court of India is charged on the Consolidated Fund of each
State and of India respectively. Article 203(1) and Article 113(1) ensure
that so much of the estimates as relate to the expenditure charged upon the
Consolidated Fund of a State and Consolidated Fund of India shall not be
submitted to the vote of the Legislative Assembly and the Parliament
respectively. High Court Judges and the Judges of the Supreme Court are
assured salaries guaranteed by the Constitution as set out in Schedule II
by virtue of Article 221(1) and Article 125(1) and a further assurance is
held out by the provisos to article 221(2) and Article 125(2) that the same
shall not be varied to the disadvantage of a judge after his appointment. Article 211 in respect of Judges of the High Courts and Supreme Court, and Article 121 in respect of Judges of the Supreme Court as also of a High
Court immunise them in discharge of their duties from discussion in the
legislature of a State and Parliament save and except where an address to
the President is presented praying for removal of the Judge as provideed in Article 124(4) and (5). Article 215 and Article 129 make the High Court and
Supreme Court respectively a Court of Record with power of such court
including the power to punish for contempt of itself. The power to appoint
officers and servants of the High Court and officers and servants of the
Supreme Court is conferred on the Chief Justice of the State under Article
229 and upon the Chief Justice of India under Article 146 and conditions of
service of the officers and servants of High Court as well as officers and
servants of the Supreme Court shall be such as may be prescribed by rules
made by the Chief Justice of the High Court or by the Chief Justice of
India, as the case may be, but in each case this power is to be exercised
subject to the provisions of any law made by the legislature of any State
or the Parliament, as the case may be, and in case of rules relating to
salaries, allowances, leave or pension would require in case of High Court
the approval of the Governor of the State and in case of Supreme Court
approval of the President. 701. By Articles 233 and 235 members of the subordinate judiciary are
brought under the control of the High Court and except for initial entry
and final exit they are under the direct control of the High Court. 702. In cases dealing with subordinate judiciary by a catena of decision
commencing from State of W.B. v. Nripendra Nath Bagchi , and ending
with Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab,
 : 1974 Lab IC 1380 1974 2 Lab LJ 465), it has been authoritatively
laid down that in matters concerning the conduct and discipline of District
Judges, their further promotion and confirmations, disputes regarding their
seniority, their transfers, the placing of their services at the disposal
of the Government for ex cadre posts, considering their fitness for being
retained in service and recommending their discharge form service, exercise
of complete disciplinary jurisdiction over them including initiation of
disciplinary inquiries and their premature retirement, the members of the
subordinate judiciary are under the direct control of the High Court. In
Samsher Singh case (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, : 1974 Lab IC
1380 1974 2 Lab LJ 465), the learned Chief Justice observed : (SCC p. 854,
para 78)

The members of the subordinate judiciary are not only under the control of
the High Court but are also under the care and custody of the High Court. It has been said that subordinate judiciary have no two masters. 703. After reviewing all these provisions and the decisions in Sheth case
 Chandrachud,
J. (as he then was) in his leading judgment observed that : (SCC p. 215,
para 12)It is beyond question that independence of the judiciary is one of
the foremost concerns of our Constitution. The Constituent Assembly showed
great solicitude for the attainment of that ideal, devoting more hours of
debate to that subject than to any other aspect of the judicial provisions
:" If the beacon of the judiciary was to remain bright, the Courts must be
above reproach, free from coercion and from political influence (See
Granville Austin : THE INDIA CONSTITUTION - CORNER STONE OF A NATION, pp.
164-65). Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel tersely observed that the judiciary should be
above suspicion and should be above party influence. Dr. Ambedkar concluded
the debate saying that "there would be no difference of opinion that the
judiciary had to be 'independent of the executive'" . 704. In another judgment forming part of the majority view, Krishna Iyer,
J. speaking for himself and Justice S. Murtaza Fazal Ali at SCR page 485,
after referring to various provisions of the Constitution, observed that
"these muniments highlight the concern of the founding fathers for judicial
insulation, a sort of Monroe doctrine" (SCC p. 258, para 79). Tuning in his
own words in Samsher Singh case (Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, : 1974 Lab IC 1380 : 1974 2 Lab LJ 465) that fearless justice is a
prominent creed of our Constitution and the independence of judiciary is
the fighting faith of our founding document, he reasserted that the creed
of judicial independence is our constitutional 'religion'. 705 Justice Bhagwati in his dissenting judgment at SCR page 463 (SCC pp.
236-37, para 50) observed that independence of judiciary was held to be a
part of our ancient tradition which has produced great judges in the past
and judicial independence is prized as a basic value and so natural and
inevitable that it has come to be regarded and so ingrained in the life and
thought of the people that it is now almost taken for granted and it would
be regarded an act of insanity for any one to think otherwise. 706. Having showered encomiums on the independence of judiciary, Justice
Krishna Iyer was not oblivious to the fact that judiciary a non-elective
institution, has an elitist approach with little or no accountability.
Having been immunised from any discussion in the Parliament or the
Legislature of a State and by the sword of Contempt of Courts Act from
public criticism, it remains within its insulated vaults and more often has
been found to be utterly unaware of the mores of the day. Conceding that
independence of judiciary must be ensured and its immunity from executive
and legislative overt and covert pressures or intrusions, must be
guaranteed in larger public interest, the role of judge-power and the
immunity of the judiciary must be studied

with aware allegiance to the scheme and sweep of the Constitution, with
insightful homage to the soul of the Paramount Parchment and with
sociological appreciation that our economic and political order, of which
the legal order is but a juridical reflection, is sharply pluralist. The
apparatuses of activist Justice, working under such societal strains and
stresses and charged with engineering progressive change through the law,
may have to enjoy more than traditional functional freedom. For, in a
dynamic democracy, with goals of transformation set up by the Constitution,
the judge, committed to uphold the founding faiths and fighting creeds of
the nation so set forth, has to act heedless of executive hubris, socio-
economic pressures and die-hard obscurantism. (SCC p. 251, para 65) 707. Mr. Sorabjee reinforced the conclusion reached in Sheth case that independence
of judiciary is the fighting faith of the founding fathers when he drew our
attention to The Government of Canada by Dawson, 2nd Edn. Revised 1954,
wherein it is said that the unique functions which the judiciary perform in
the Government made imperative that they should be given a position quite
different from that of the great majority of government officials. It was,
however, conceded by the same author that the judges cannot remain
completely unaffected by their environment and cannot and should not be
indifferent to the effects of their decisions on the social and political
needs of the nation. There will always be some interplay among the habits
of mind of the judge, the society in which lives, and the decisions which
he renders. This view reflects what was urged as value-packing in the
matter of appointment of Judges to which a reference will be presently
made. The author concludes that the 'fundamental decisions in a democracy
arise from a constant interchange of desires and commands, tentative
advances and retreats, experiments and consolidations, the adoption of one
policy, the rejection of another, the haphazard and almost unconscious
acceptance of a third, compromises without number, - all forming a part of
the extremely complex process of determining and applying public policy'.
Awareness of these constitutional changing values must inform the judicial
personnel and in the superior judiciary the value system of the judge
unconsciously but invariably reflects in his judgments. Thus the coincident
that what is disclosed by the people to the Parliament which in turn went
to the Cabinet and to the administration and the resulting action, has to
be remembered so that 'the stream of command - albeit somewhat uncertain
and wandering, and sometimes showing little perceptible motion - and also a
means whereby honesty and efficiency and devotion to public duty can be
appraised and suitably recognised'. No doubt, people do see in judicial
independence a greater promise of justice than could be obtained through
the application of ordinary political sanctions but it has a continuous
interplay of forces and interaction of various organs ultimately converging
on realisation of constitutional goals. 708. Attention was also drawn to Judges on Trial by Shetreat, 1976 Edn.,
and after reading out the struggle for judicial independence, pointed
reference was made to the fact that since Coke's disgrace 'the Crown could
no longer expect to obtain the moral support which it had hitherto received
from decisions pronounced by the Bench of the judges who were comparatively
at least, which the men who held office subsequently to Coke's disgrace,
independent of the favours and the anger of the Crown'. 709. Nor independence of judiciary is some a priori concept, a fact when
judges attempt on their own insulation is occasionally clouded or
overlooked. Independence of judiciary under the Constitution has to be
interpreted within the framework and the parameters of the Constitution.
There are various provisions in the Constitution which indicate that the
Constitution has not provided something like a 'hands attitude' to the
judiciary. The power of appointment of High Court Judges and the Judges of
the Supreme Court vests in the President and the President being a
constitutional head, he is constitutionally bound to act according to the
advice of the Council of Ministers. One can profitably refer to a number of
articles in the Constitution conferring power on other constitutional
institutions such as the executive which when it acts within the limits of
power will have a direct impact on the functioning of the judiciary. To
briefly refer to some of these provisions, Article 32(3) confers power on
the Parliament to frame a law, inter alia, empowering any other court to
exercise within local limits of its jurisdiction any of the power
exercisable by the Supreme Court under Article 32. Article 133(3) confers
power on the Parliament to enact a law enlarging the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court. Article 135 preserves the existing jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court but makes it subject to the law made by Parliament which
might otherwise provide. Article 138 enables Parliament to enlarge the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in respect of certain matter. Article 139 contemplates conferment on Supreme Court by a law of Parliament all powers
to issue writs for any purpose other than those mentioned in clause (2) of Article 32. Article 140 provides for Parliamentary legislation even in
regard to supplemental powers of the Supreme Court. Article 130 enables the
Chief Justice of India with the approval of the President to provide for
sitting of Supreme Court at places other than Delhi. Similarly, Articles
225 , 230 , 231 and 237 confer power on Parliament to make law directly
impinging upon the jurisdiction of the High Courts. Article 126 vests power
in the President to appoint an Acting Chief Justice and it does not
postulate consultation with any functionary in the judiciary. The position
under Articles 127(1) and 128 point in the same direction, subject, of
course, to the construction canvassed for on behalf of the petitioners
which would be examined a little while after. This conspectus of articles,
not meant to be exhaustive, do indicate that Parliament has power to
regulate Court's jurisdiction and as Hart and Webster in the Federal
Judicial System at page 317 said that "the bald truth is, isn't it that
power to regulate jurisdiction is actually a power to regulate rights to
judicial process whatever they are and substantive rights generally" . 710. Undoubtedly judiciary, the third branch of the Government cannot act
in isolation. They are ensured total freedom, of course, after entering the
office, from any overt or covert pressure or interference in the process of
adjudicating causes brought before them and to this end they are ensured
tenure, pay, pension, privileges and certain basic conditions of service.
The judiciary like any other constitutional instrumentality has, however,
to act towards attainment of constitutional goals. This in one sense is
conceded by Mr. Seervai who led on behalf of the petitioners when in his
Sir Chimanlal Setalvad Lectures styled : 'The Position of the Judiciary
under the Constitution of India ', he tersely observed as under : 711. A further submission was that the concept of judicial independence may
be examined in the context of parliamentary democracy where other organs of
the Government, namely, the executive and the legislature are elected
people's representatives while we have eschewed the elective element in
appointment of judges. This absence of elective element in judges with
guaranteed tenure, conditions of service and immunity from criticism denies
any method of accountability of judiciary and the power of judicial review
often described as undemocratic (See Schwartz : A BASIC HISTORY OF U.S.
SUPREME COURT, p. 87) can set at naught the will of the people expressed
through its chosen representatives. In order to mitigate the trend
disclosed by total aloofness, the constitution-makers envisaged power of
appointment in the President advised by the council of ministers an elected
body so as to make judiciary accountable and responsible to the
constitutional goads. It was urged that this methodology will permit 'value
packing' in the judiciary. The expression 'packing' raised a derisive
laughter. It is a much misunderstood word. One must reject emphatically any
packing of courts of persons of the belief, hue and colour of the party in
power but it is equally undeniable that all the three organs of the
Government must work towards realisation of constitutional goals and the
judiciary has to be inspired by the values enshrined in the Constitution if
rule of law is to run akin to rule of life and a feudal society is to be
transformed into an egalitarian society by the rule of law, an introduction
of the element of reflection of popular will so as to make judicial system
more viable and effective as an instrument of change is inevitable and
total aloofness of judiciary is inconceivable. While undoubtedly political
packing must be abhorred, in putting the independence of judiciary on
pedestal one cannot lose sight of the fact that the judiciary must keep
pace with the changing mores of the day, its decision must be informed by
values enshrined in the Constitution, the goals set forth in the
fundamental law of the land, peoples' yearning desire for a chance for the
better and promised millennium. An activist role in furtherance of the same
is a sine qua non for the judiciary. If value packing connotes appointment
of persons otherwise well qualified as required by the Constitution but
having the additional qualification of awareness of the high priority task
of eradication of poverty, removal of economic disparity, destroying the
curse of illiteracy, ignorance, exploitation, feudal overlordship, coupled
with conscious commitment to administering socio-economic justice,
establishment of a just social order, and egalitarian society, then not
only the value packing is not to be frowned upon nor thwarted by entrenched
establishment prone people but it must be advocated with a crusader's zeal.
And judiciary cannot stand aloof and apart from the mainstream of society.
This will ensure its broad accountability to injustice ridden masses and
therefore it is not unnatural that the status quoists can enter their
caveat to value packing but which does not commend. While appointing each
individual the constitutional philosophy of each individual ought to be a
vital consideration and if this is labelled as value packing, it is neither
unethical nor unconstitutional nor a weapon to strike at independence of
judiciary. 712. What should be the ideal method for selecting personnel entrusted with
the task of dispensing justice has been an endless source of discussion. In
the democracies the world over till today there are two known methods of
selection - appointment and election. As election method has not been
accepted by the Constitution, it need not detain us. Constitution provides
for appointment of Judges of the High Court and the Supreme Court by the
highest executive in the country, the President. And even in this sphere,
in view of the provisions contained in Article 74 , the President will be
guided by the advice of the Council of Ministers. Undoubtedly, therefore,
the power to appoint Judges vests in the executive. This power was
specifically conferred after a long debate to which reference will be
presently made. But before coming down to the debates of the Constituent
Assembly bearing on the subject, a brief survey of the methodology adopted
by various democratic countries in the matter of appointment of Judges
would prove illuminating. In USA all the federal court Judges are appointed
by the President subject to confirmation by a simple majority vote of the
Senate. The Attorney-General has a decisive voice in the nomination made by
the President. In the latter months of the Truman Administration, the 12
member committee of federal judicial set-up of the American Bar Association
has come to play an increasingly significant role in the appointive process
of the federal judiciary in the USA but the power still vests in the
President whose nomination must be ratified by the Senate meaning thereby
the power is in the executive with a legislative veto over it. In the
United Kingdom Lord Chancellor is the queen's chief adviser on the
selection. Lord Chancellor presides from the Woolsack over the House of
Lords. He is a member of the Cabinet. He is also head of the judiciary and
thus combines in his person the threefold function of executive,
legislative and judicial. Even though thus the power is in executive,
Richard M. Jackson in his Study on the Machinery of Justice in England,
noticed that political considerations have hardly entered the process of
judicial selection since 1907. In France the president of the Republic who
is charged by the constitution to be "guarantor of the independence of
judicial authority", selects the judges. They are chosen either by the 11
member of Counseil Superieur de la Magistrature in the case of Cour d'
Appeal and Cour de Cassation, or by the Minister of Justice who may consult
with, or receive advice from, the High Council in the case of lower courts.
The High Council consists of the President of the Republic, the Minister of
Justice, and nine persons with legal background chosen by the President for
a once-renewable term of four years. (Henry J. Abraham : THE JUDICIAL
PROCESS, p. 31) Garner, in his Political Science and Government at page 726
notices that in nearly all countries other than the USA, the judges are
appointed by the executive and even in the USA, it is the method followed
for the selection of the federal Judges. In countries having the cabinet
system of Government this in effect means appointment by the Minister
Justice. In footnote 107, he notices that in Belgium the judges of the
Court of Cassation must be appointed from two lists of nominees, each
containing twice as many names as there are vacancies to be filled, one
presented by the court itself, the other by the Senate. This system
represents a combination of cooperation, election and appointment. In
principle, it has much to commend and it has been advocated in France by
various jurists and commissions on judicial reform. Garner at page 728
recollects the statement of Dean Hall in his study wherein he thus
evaluates the system of appointment by the executive : "Of all the methods
of selecting judges, of which we have actually had considerable experience
in this country, that of appointment by the executive has unquestionably
produced the ablest and most satisfactory courts." Professor Laski in his
Grammar of Politics, p. 545, notices that there are tow methods of
selection - election and nomination, and in England where practically all
judicial appointments are under the control of the Lord Chancellor the
nomination system is followed and there is similar practice in France,
Italy and Germany where all judicial appointments are nominated by the
executive. He proceeds to point out that of all methods of appointments,
that of election by the people at large is without exception the worst. He
notices with satisfaction that most of the great judges in recent English
history, men like Blackburn, Bowen, Watson, Macnaghten, were entirely
unknown to the public outside and they were all appointed by nomination. He
concludes that by a process of elimination the choice is thrown back upon
nomination as the best method available for choice. This method is also not
fruitful because it leaves the door too wide open for measurement of
fitness in terms of political eminence rather than judicial quality and he
illustrates this statement by pointing out that Lord Halsbury used his
power of nomination to elevate members of his own party. As a via media, he
suggests a compromise by recommending that the appointment should be made
on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice with the consent of a
standing committee of judges which would represent all sides of their work.
Be that as it may, this bird's eye view of the world phenomena should be
sufficient to convince us that power to appoint judges where election
method is eschewed is always vested in the executive and that it has not
been found to be subversive of independence of judiciary. At this stage it
would be advantageous to recall that in the 80th Report of the Law
Commission of India, it has been frankly admitted that most of the High
Courts to which a reference was made by the Law Commission about the
existing system of appointment of Judges, have in their replies to the
questionnaire, expressed the view that the existing system is by and large
sound. Therefore, it is not possible to accept a sweeping statement that
the vesting of the power of appointment in the executive is subversive of
independence of judiciary. 713. I would here briefly refer to the relevant debate in Constituent
Assembly bearing on this topic. Winding up the debate on the articles
concerning judiciary, Dr. Ambedkar observed that : What is specifically moved and rejected while drafting the Constitution
cannot be introduced by the back-door through the process of
interpretation. A specific amendment was moved to the draft Article 193
(corresponding to Article 217 of the Constitution ). The proposed amendment
reads as under : (CAD Vol. 8, p. 674)

That for, clause (1) of Article 193 , the following shall be substituted : 714. A similar proposal was also contained in the memorandum representing
the views of the Federal Court and of the Chief Justices representing all
the Provincial High Courts of the Union of India submitted to the
Constituent Assembly. (See Shiva Rao : THE FRAMING OF INDIA'S CONSTITUTION,
Select Documents, Vol. 4, p. 195) The implication of the amendment is that
proposal for appointment of a Judge of High Court can only be initiated
upon the recommendation of the Chief Justice which would imply that no one
else can initiate the proposal for appointment of a High Court Judge, an
aspect which has some relevance on the construction of Article 217(1) but
for the present discussion the importance is of the word 'concurrence' in
the proposed amendment. If the amendment had been accepted no appointment
of a Judge of High Court could be made unless the Chief Justice of India
concurred in the appointment. In other words, if the Chief Justice of India
does not approve the proposal, he would have a veto on the proposal and his
lack of concurrence would kill the proposal. The power of appointment which
at present vests in the President would thus stand transferred to the Chief
Justice and if such a situation emerged it would have accorded great
strength to the submission. Be it noted that this amendment was negatived.
In other words, the Constituent Assembly in terms rejected any veto to be
vested in the Chief Justice of India in the matter of appointment of a High
Court Judge. And it is too late in the day to contend that debates in
Constituent Assembly do not provide an aid to construction of articles of
Constitution or it is impermissible to refer to them (see State of Mysore
v. R. V. Bidap ; Union of India v. H. S. Dhillon and Sagnata Investments
Ltd. v. Norwich Corporation [1971] 3 W.L.R. 133, 137 : [1971] 2 All E.R.
1441(CA))) 715. In this context, Mr. S. P. Gupta, petitioner appearing in person
contended that much of the evil following from the power of appointment of
Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court being vested in the President would
be eliminated if by a process of interpretation the Court can eliminate the
binding character of the advice that may be tendered to the President in
discharge of his function of appointing the Judge. Article 74(1) provides
that there shall be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the
head to aid and advise the President who shall, in the exercise of his
functions, act in accordance with such advice. A proviso has been added by
the Forty-fourth Amendment Act, 1978 , which enables the President to
require the Council of Ministers to reconsider such advice either generally
or otherwise but makes it obligatory on the President to act according to
such advice tendered after reconsideration. The contention is that the
President in discharge of his function of appointing Judges of Supreme
Court and High Courts is to act on his own after consultation with the
constitutional functionaries set out in Articles 124 and 217 and is not to
act according to the advice offered by the executive in this behalf. This
would have necessitated the ascertainment of the position of the President
in our constitutional scheme but a decision of the seven Judges'
Constitution Bench of this Court in Samsher Singh case (Samsher Singh v.
State of Punjab, has authoritatively concluded this point. A. N. Ray, C.J. speaking for
himself and Palekar, Mathew, Chandrachud and Alagiriswami, JJ. has held
that the President is a constitutional or formal head and he must exercise
his powers and functions conferred on him by or under the Constitution on
the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers. An exception was noted in
the case of Governor where the Constitution has conferred upon him an
obligation to exercise his function in his discretion but there is no such
provision in case of President and it was concluded that the decision of
any minister or officer under the rules of business made under Article
77(3) is the decision of the President. In a concurring judgment Krishna
Iyer, J. speaking for himself and Bhagwati, J. succinctly observed that it
is the function of the Council of Ministers to advise the President over
the whole of the central field and nothing is left to his discretion or
excepted from that field by this article. After referring to the debates in
the Constituent Assembly, Krishna Iyer, J. concluded as under : (SCC p.
885, para 154)We declare the law of this branch of our Constitution to be
that the President and Governor, custodians of all executive and other
powers under various articles, shall, by virtue of these provisions,
exercise their formal constitutional powers only upon and in accordance
with the advice of their Ministers save in a few well-known exceptional
situations. These exceptional situations need not be enumerated because they do not
touch upon the subject under discussion. Add to this the consistent view of
this Court that the position of the President under the Indian Constitution
is akin to the position of the Crown under the British Parliamentary system
(see Ram Jawaya Kapur v. State of Punjab A. Sanjeevi Naidu v. State of Madras
 U. N.
R. Rao v. Indira Gandhi (1971 Supp SCR 46 : ). In the Case of U. N. R. Rao, the Constitution Bench held
that Article 74(1) was mandatory and, therefore, the President could not
exercise the executive power without the aid and advice of the Council of
Ministers. The larger Bench overruled the decision of this Court in Sardari
Lal v. Union of India ). Mr. Gupta, however, relied upon the decision of this Court in Jayantilal Amrit Lal Shodhan v. F. N. Rana , some observations from which may at first blush seem to support
the conclusion reached in Sardari Lal case . However, once the decision in Sardari Lal case is overruled, observations in Shodhan case may be hardly of any assistance. Now, even Mr. Gupta
concedes that the power to appoint Judges of the Supreme Court and High
Court conferred by Articles 217(1) and 124 is executive power and the
function is executive function. But after an elaborate reference to the
debates in the Constituent Assembly and especially the stage at which an
instrument of instructions was sought to be prepared for providing guide-
lines to the President as to the manner of discharging his function in the
matter of appointment of Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court, it was
urged that while exercising the power in the matter of appointment of
Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court the President was to act not
according to the advice of the Council of Ministers. Too much reference to
piecemeal debates at the drafting stage, provisions in the draft
Constitution and views expressed by different speakers during the debates
in the Constituent Assembly is likely to raise a picture in support of some
of the provisions of the Constitution which may be misleading. After a long
debate, discussion, suggestions, amendments, the end product namely, the
provision finally inserted in the Constitution must be examined. The
history of the provision may occasionally assist in illuminating the
blurred contours. But an over-emphasis on the history and debates divorced
from the provision which finally emerged after mature deliberation would
not help in bringing out the clear intendment underlying the provision.
Drawing inspiration from the scheme of Sections 13 and 14 of Government of
India Act, 1935, an idea to prepare an instrument of instructions was
certainly mooted but finally shelved. In this connection, it would be
advantageous to remember that in the memorandum of May 13, 1947, prepared
by the Constitutional Adviser for the use of the Union Constitution
Committee, the principal provision embodied in this respect stated that
there should be a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the President in
the exercise of his functions, but it went on to add "except insofar as he
is required by this Constitution to act in his discretion" . A note was
appended to this clause which referred to the discretionary powers of the
President. Certain special responsibilities were set out in the memorandum
in respect of which, according to the note, President was required to act
in his discretion. While discharging his functions in respect of his
special responsibilities wherein he was required to act in his discretion,
a Council of States whose composition was set out in the memorandum was
proposed to be set up. At a later stage, a suggestion was made that the
subject-matter of appointment of Judges of High Court and Supreme Court
should be included in the instrument of instructions. The draft of
instrument of instructions was also prepared by the Drafting Committee. The
instrument listed six categories of appointment in regard to which the
President was required to consult the Advisory Board. Of the six
categories, two are : The Chief Justice and other judges of the Supreme
Court and the Chief Justice and the other Judges of the High Court. Finally
the very idea of instrument of instructions and setting up of the Council
of States or Advisory Board was dropped. (See Shiva Rao : THE FRAMING OF
INDIA'S CONSTITUTION, Vol. 4, pp. 338, 374, 491, 492). A long debate
spreading over sometime took place as to where the power to appoint Judges
must be centered. A very passionate plea was made for centering this power
in the Chief Justice of India. As has been pointed out above this
suggestion was specifically negatived and the power was conferred on the
President. Thus, if the power to appoint Judges is conferred on the
President and that power is an executive power, and in the absence of a
provision in the Constitution which permits the President to act in his
discretion, bereft of the advice of the Council of Ministers, it is not
possible to hold that in the matter of appointment of Judges of High Court
and Supreme Court, the advice offered under Article 74 is not binding on
the President. Where the President is not expected to act on the advice of
the Council of Ministers a clear indication is given in the Constitution.
To illustrate the point, a reference to Article 103 would be profitable. Article 103 provides that if any question arises as to whether a member of
either House of Parliament has become subject to any of the
disqualifications mentioned in clause (1) of Article 102 , the question
Shall be referred for the decision of the President and his decision shall
be final. Sub-article (2) provides that before giving any decision on any
such question, the President shall obtain the opinion of the Election
Commission and shall act according to such opinion. The Constitution itself
has made it obligatory upon the President not to act on the advice of the
Council of Ministers but in accordance with the opinion given by the
Election Commission. In other words, the opinion given by the Election
Commission is binding on the President. Similarly, Article 217(3) confers
power on the President to decide the question of age of a Judge of the High
Court if any such question arises, after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and the decision of the President shall be final. The
question arose in Union of India v. Jyoti Prakash Mitter , as to the nature of the
function discharged by the President while determining the question of age
of a High Court Judge. After noticing that the President by Article 74 of
the Constitution is the constitutional head who acts on the advice of the
Council of Ministers in exercise of his function, this Court held that the
President acting under Article 217(3) performs a judicial function of grave
importance under the scheme of our Constitution. It was, therefore, held
that he cannot act on the advice of his ministers. Once the function of the
President while exercising power under Article 217(3) is held to be
judicial it follows as a necessary corollary that the President has to act
on his own after consultation with the Chief Justice of India but he cannot
act on the advice of the Council of Minister because a person discharging a
judicial or quasi-judicial function cannot act at the behest or dictate of
some other authority. But it cannot be said that while exercising the power
of appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts, the
President is either performing a judicial or quasi-judicial function. It is
admittedly an executive function and howsoever one may like to wish away
the interference of the Council of Ministers in the matter of appointment
of Judges of High Courts and Supreme Court, the framers of the Constitution
after having examined various aspects of the matter conferred power on the
President rejecting simultaneously the veto of Chief Justice of India. Once
this function is held to be an executive function, Article 74 would come
into operation with all its rigours and the President will have to act on
the advice of Council of Ministers. 716. Turning now to the group of cases in which circular dated March 18,
1981 issued by the Law Minister, short-term extension given to Shri S. N.
Kumar, Additional Judge of Delhi High Court and his subsequent non-
appointment on June 6, 1981 figure prominently, what is put in the
forefront is position, privilege and status of an Additional Judge
appointed under Article 224. Article 224 is such an inseparable adjunct of Article 217 that it was not possible to lay down precisely the construction
of Article 224 divorced from or de hors Article 217. Therefore, as a first
step, one must now dwell upon the proper and precise construction of Articles 217 and 224. Construction of a constitutional provision is of long
term utility and therefore to eschew the heat and passion and dust of
raging controversy, it is always considered prudent to approach the
question of construction in abstract and thereafter the facts of a given
case may be examined in the light of the construction put on a provision of
the Constitution. 717. The fasciculus of articles in Chapter V, Part VI, provide for a High
Court for each State. Article 216 provides for constitution of High Court.
It reads as under : (1) Every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by
warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice
of India, the Governor of the State, and, in the case of appointment of a
Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court,
and shall hold office, in the case of an additional or acting Judge, as
provided in Article 224 , and in any other case, until he attains the age of
62 years : Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause - (a) in computing the period during which a person has held judicial office
in the territory of India, there shall be included any period, after he has
held any judicial office, during which the person has been an advocate of a
High Court or has held the office of a member of a tribunal or any post,
under the Union or a State, requiring special knowledge of law; (aa) in computing the period during which a person has been an advocate of
a High Court, there shall be included any period during which the person
has held judicial office or the office of a member of a tribunal or any
post, under the union or a State, requiring special knowledge of law after
he became an advocate;(b) in computing the period during which a person has
held judicial office in the territory of India or been an advocate of a
High Court, there shall be included any period before the commencement of
this Constitution during which he has held judicial office in any area
which was comprised before the fifteenth day of August, 1947, within India
as defined by the Government of India Act, 1935, or has been an advocate of
any High Court in any such area, as the case may be. (3) If any question arises as to the age of a Judge of High Court, the
question shall be decided by the President after consultation with the
Chief Justice of India and the decision of the President shall be final. Article 222 confers power on the President to transfer a Judge from one
High Court to another. Article 224 provides for appointment of additional
and acting Judges. It reads : (2) When any Judge of a High Court other than the Chief Justice is by
reason of absence or for any other reason unable to perform the duties of
his office or is appointed to act temporarily as Chief Justice, the
President may appoint a duly qualified person to act as a Judge of that
Court until the permanent Judge has resumed his duties. (3) No person appointed as an additional or acting Judge of a High Court
shall hold office after attaining the age of 62 years. Article 224 initially enacted in the Constitution corresponding to draft Article 200 was deleted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 and present Article 224 was substituted in its place. By the Constitution
(Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1962 original Article 224 deleted in 1956 was
reintroduced as present Article 224-A. 718. Article 217 confers power on the President to appoint a Judge of the
High Court after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor
of the State and in case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court. The power to appoint a Judge
of a High Court vests in the President but it is hedged in with a condition
that it can be exercised 'after consultation with' the three constitutional
functionaries set out in the article. The use of the expression 'after
consultation with' instead of 'in consultation with' was harped upon to
indicate that the expression 'after consultation with' means that the power
of the President remains intact but before exercise of the power the duty
is cast upon him to consult the three functionaries. If on the other hand
the expression 'in consultation with' was used it may have indicated that
the President shared his power with the three constitutional functionaries.
Looking to the language of Article 217 , I see no distinction in the use of
the two expressions which may have an impact on the construction of the
article. The power is the power to appoint and the limitation on the power
is to consult the three functionaries. 719. Ultimate power of appointment unquestionably vests in the President.
Before the power to appoint is exercised the President is under a
constitutional obligation to consult the three constitutional
functionaries. 720. In practice the procedure for appointment has more or less proceeded
along the lines as indicated by the Law Commission in its 14th Report,
Volume I, page 71. Briefly recapitulated, it appears that the Chief Justice
of the High Court forwards his recommendation to the Chief Minister who in
turn forwards his recommendation in consultation with the Governor to the
Minister of Justice. Formerly it used to be Home Minister. If the Chief
Minister does not agree with the recommendation of the Chief Justice he
makes his own recommendation but in such a situation the Chief Justice is
given an opportunity to make his comments on the recommendation made by the
Chief Minister. Either agreed or the rival recommendations are then
forwarded to the Minister of Justice who forwards the recommendation to the
Chief Justice of India. After obtaining opinion of the Chief Justice of
India the Minister submits his advice to the President as to the selection
to be made. The Law Commission noticed that this procedure places the Chief
Justice in an awkward position. In practice occasionally the Chief Justice
may have a Judge appointed at the instance of the local executive and
against his own preference. In order to obviate executive interference in
the matter of appointment of Judges the Law Commission recommended that Article 217 must be suitably amended to provide for appointment of a High
Court Judge on the recommendation of the Chief Justice of the High Court
which would in practice lead to a situation where one not recommended by
the Chief Justice can never be appointed as a High Court Judge. Undoubtedly
Chief Justice of the High Court would be the most competent person to
evaluate the merits, ability and efficiency of a person recommended but as
noticed by the Law Commission there may be and frequently there are other
matters relating to the person recommended which the State executive would
alone be in a position to know and of which they may inform the Chief
Justice. Such other matters may include factors such as the local position
of the person proposed, his character and integrity, is affiliations, which
may have considerable bearing upon his efficient functioning as a Judge and
all these may not at all be within the knowledge of the Chief Justice of
the High Court. Approaching the matter from this angle the Law Commission
rejected the submission that the State executive should have no share in
the decision-making process for appointment of a Judge of the High Court
and ultimately expressed a considered opinion that where the Chief Justice
of the High Court recommends a person for judgeship, the State executive
should have an opportunity to offer its comments upon that recommendation
but that such consultation with the State executive should be limited to
other factors such as have been enumerated hereinbefore. It may be
mentioned that this recommendation of the Law Commission was not accepted
by the Government. The fact remain that even a body like the Law Commission
was of the considered opinion that it would not be conducive to appointment
of suitable person to totally exclude the State executive in the decision-
making process for appointment of a Judge of the High Court. Fourteenth
Report was submitted in 1958 but as late as 1980 in Eightieth Report the
Law Commission has reaffirmed the view that the present procedure is good.
Therefore, it is not possible to accept rather an extreme argument that
participation of the executive in the decision-making process for
appointment of a Judge would be subversive of the independence of the
judiciary. In fact, viewed from another angle also it would be
impermissible to exclude participation by the State executive in this
process. The power to appoint a Judge of the High Court is in the
President. When appointed by the President the Judge would be working as a
Judge of the High Court to which he is appointed. His salary, pension,
allowances, etc. would be chargeable on the Consolidated Fund of the State.
Probably influenced by these considerations the Constitution itself
provides for giving a share to the State executive in the decision-making
process and it would be contrary to the intendment of the Constitution to
exclude it by process of interpretation. 721. The Constitution-makers attached a high degree of importance to the
office of a Judge of the High Court. By a conscious effort they were
insulating the judiciary against executive interference and, therefore,
made the task of removal of a Judge once appointed very difficult, if not
impossible. It was conceded on all sides that the Judges (Inquiry) Act,
1968 has provided such an elaborate and cumbersome procedure that it would
be rather next to impossible to impeach a Judge. Once, therefore, someone
is appointed as a Judge of the High Court under Article 217 , he is to be
suffered even though his continuance may not be conducive to the fair
administration of justice. Extreme care was, therefore, focussed on the
question of initial appointment, probably in order to see that error of
judgment of one or the other constitutional functionary may not go
unnoticed. Three high constitutional functionaries were involved in the
process of appointment of a Judge of the High Court, and each one, namely,
the Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor of the State, are the
highest judicial and executive functionaries in the State and the Chief
Justice of India holder of the highest judicial office in the country, were
to be consulted before the President took the step of making an appointment
under Article 217. When three such high constitutional functionaries
participate in the process of consultation there would be a remote or
minimal chance of some infirmity being overlooked or any vital
consideration relevant to the process of appointment being ignored and the
best man will be selected. In the ultimate analysis consumers of justice
are interested in securing undiluted justice free not only from bias or
subservience but free from predilections, aberrations, preconceived notions
and personal philosophies of incumbent of the office of a Judge. In a
country ruled by rule of law, respect for the law is a sine qua non and the
respect for law would increase and enhance directly in the proportion to
the work of Judges in law courts which would inspire confidence. Mr.
Justice Arthur T. Vanderbilt in the Challenge on law Reforms (Princeton : 722. Experience gained for a period of three decades in working Article 217 undoubtedly with some rare exceptions would show that the framers of the
Constitution envisaged that by a process of discussion amongst themselves,
by cross-fertilisation of information from each other, if these three high
constitutional functionaries reached a consensus it will eliminate even the
microscopic error in making the appointment. Undoubtedly, in saying this
the role of the President in making the final appointment is not to be
minimised. 723. But Mr. Garg contended that looking to the position of the Chief
Justice of India as the incumbent of the highest office at the apex of the
judiciary, in the event of an unfortunate, albeit undesirable situation of
the difference of opinion amongst the three constitutional functionaries,
the view expressed by the Chief Justice of India must have primacy. This
submission may be examined from two independent stand point. First, is
there anything in the language of Article 217 which places Chief Justice of
India on a pedestal in relation to the other two constitutional
functionaries ? And secondly, is the Chief Justice of India in a position
more advantageous compared to other two functionaries to be infallible in
his view ? Brusquely stated, does he have a veto over the view expressed by
the other two constitutional functionaries ? The last question can be
answered at once. In the earlier portion of this judgment a statement by
Dr. Ambedkar opposing an amendment to draft Article 193 (corresponding to Article 217 ) making concurrence of Chief Justice of India for appointment a
sine qua non describing it as a dangerous proposition has been noticed.
What is specifically rejected cannot be brought in by brought in by the
back-door. 724. Article 217 on its own language and intendment repels the contention.
The President is under constitutional obligation to consult the three
constitutional functionaries. Each is on par. They are coordinate
authorities. There is no relative hierarchy. At any rate, the appellate
jurisdiction of the Chief Justice of India functioning as a Judge of the
Supreme Court over a decision of the Chief Justice of the High Court would
not provide an indicium that the view of the Chief Justice of India in
administrative matters has predominance or overriding effect over the view
of the Chief Justice of the High Court. It must be recalled that in the
process of drafting the Constitution there was some suggestion that the
Supreme Court shall have administrative supervision over the High Court and
this suggestion was rejected. Initiation of proposal for appointment of a
High Court Judge is not a judicial function of the Chief Justice of the
High Court. While performing this function Chief Justice of the High Court
is not under the administrative subordination of the Chief Justice of
India. Further, as the system functions, proposal for appointment of a High
Court Judge is initiated by the Chief Justice of the High Court. The person
recommended may be a member of the Bar or from the subordinate judiciary,
say a District Judge. As the High Court has both administrative and
judicial control over the subordinate judiciary, the Chief Justice of the
High Court is more knowledgeable about the capacity, ability and
eligibility of a District Judge for being considered for the post of High
Court Judge. Chief Justice of India will have very little information about
the capacity, eligibility and quality of a District Judge. Similarly, while
recommending a person from the Bar in the State, Chief Justice of the High
Court is more advantageously placed compared to Chief Justice of India.
And, Chief Justice of India will have to depend upon his sources of
information which may not either exclude grape-vine or hearsay. He has
little or no opportunity of seeing the member of the Bar functioning as a
lawyer in the Court. Cumulatively, therefore, Chief Justice of the High
Court is more advantageously placed compared to the Chief Justice of India
in this behalf. About the various other factors which enter into the
verdict, the State executive will be more favourably placed than the Chief
Justice of India because it has its own instrumentalities for inquiry and
information. Therefore, the view of the Chief Justice of India cannot have
any primacy in this behalf. 725. Reference in this connection to an observation in Samsher Singh case
(Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, that," [i]n practice the last word in such a
sensitive subject must belong to the Chief Justice of India, the rejection
of his advice being ordinarily regarded as prompted by oblique
considerations vitiating the order "(at SCR page 873 : SCC p. 882, para 149), is not apposite : Samsher Singh belonged to the subordinate judiciary
and while examining his case reference was made to Union of India v. Jyoti
Prakash Mitter , in which case the question of determination of the age of a judge and
the construction of Article 217(3) figured. Article 217(3) obliges the
President to consult the Chief Justice of India before deciding the
question as to the age of a Judge of the High Court. The view expressed
therein would not support the contention about primacy, because unlike Article 217 and similar to Article 222 , Chief Justice of India is the only
constitutional functionary required to be consulted by the President while
discharging his function under Article 217(3). 726. Mr. Seervai in this context urged that the Chief Justice of India has
been given the position of primacy because his training as a Judge gives
him a judicial outlook which would help him to consider the appointment of
Judges in a judicial spirit. Further, the Chief Justice of India having
reached the highest position in the judiciary is free from even a
suggestion that his action was actuated by a desire to secure a promotion
for himself in the judicial hierarchy. Add to this the consideration that
if parochial and local considerations are to be excluded in the appointment
of High Court Judges, the Chief Justice of India is more likely to exclude
such considerations than the Chief Justice of a High Court. To say that
high constitutional functionaries like the Chief Justice of a High Court
would not be free from such shortcomings set out above and that the Chief
Justice of India would be free from such shortcomings appears to be an
unwarranted assumption. It is well known that some Chief Justices declined
to come to the Supreme Court and had they come at least one of them was
likely to be the Chief Justice of India by vertical movement according to
seniority. If he declined to become the Chief Justice of India and
continued to remain Chief Justice of High Court, merely because he opted
for High Court judgeship would not be sufficient to reject his opinion, or
merely because Chief Justice of India who opted to come to the Supreme
Court and became the Chief Justice of India, his view as Chief Justice of
India should have greater weight. The submission is not basically sound to
overreach the plain intendment of Article 217. In was said that if the
submission that the view of the Chief Justice of India should be accorded
primacy is rejected, in the unfortunate event of divergence of opinion
between the Chief Justice of India and the Chief Justice of High Court, the
executive would function like an umpire and that this would erode
independence of judiciary and to avoid this undesirable situation the Court
must lean in favour of according primacy to the view of the Chief Justice
of India. In support of the submission, the expression 'pater familias'
used by me in my judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , in reference to the Chief Justice of India was relied upon and it was
urged that this very description would unerringly point in the direction of
the primacy being accorded to the view of the Chief Justice of India.
Undoubtedly, I described the Chief Justice of India as pater familias of
judiciary. And that was in the context of the consultation which the
President must have with the Chief Justice of India before exercising the
power under Article 222. But let it not be overlooked that there was no
question of primacy to be accorded to the view of the Chief Justice of
India with regard to the advice preferred by him when consulted under Article 222 because he is the only constitutional functionary required to
be consulted. The very expression 'primacy' envisages two or more
coordinate authorities, one having a preferential position over the other.
Such a situation does not arise under article 222 and, therefore, torn out
of context the use of the expression pater familias would not help.
Therefore, it is not possible to accept the submission that the view of the
Chief Justice of India when consulted under Article 217 would have primacy
over the view of the Chief Justice of the High Court. 727. Interestingly a reference in passing may be made to the divergent
views on this aspect even amongst the petitioners. Article 222 which
confers power on the President to transfer a Judge of the High Court to
another High Court provides that the power to transfer can be exercised in
consultation with the Chief Justice of India. While hearing the petition
challenging the transfer of Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh of the Patna High
Court to the Madras high Court, Dr. Singhvi appearing for Mr. K. B. N.
Singh vehemently traversed the argument of Mr. Garg that the view of the
Chief Justice of India must have primacy and it was said that no such
primacy as is contended for can be accorded to the view of the Chief
Justice of India. Specific submission was that if the proposal for transfer
is initiated by Chief Justice of India it would be violative of Article 222. If Article 222 which confers power on the President to transfer a
Judge from one High Court to another High Court is hedged in with a
condition that it can be exercised after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and this consultation has been held to be an adequate
safeguard against improper transfer in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , , and even though that being the only safeguard, it was
submitted that the view of the Chief Justice of India cannot have primacy;
how would it be proper to accord primacy when Article 217 mandates
consultation with three constitutional functionaries including the Chief
Justice of India ? Primacy has the flavour of veto and if conceded the
authority to be consulted would become the final decision-making authority.
No canon of construction permits such a thing to be done. As stated by Dr.
Ambedkar the Court cannot assign to one authority powers explicitly granted
to another. This will be elaborated at a later stage. Therefore also, the
contention about primacy of the view of the Chief Justice of India must be
negatived. 728. The next limb of the argument is as to whether the proposal for
appointment can be initiated by the Chief Justice of the High Court or the
Chief Justice of India only or it can be initiated by any of the four
constitutional functionaries adumbrated in Article 217. In this context the
practice followed till the 14th Report of the Law Commission and till the
80th Report has been set out earlier in this judgment. Even, the Law
Commission, after noticing the defects and drawbacks in the procedure
followed for appointment under Article 217 ultimately recommended that Article 217 be suitably amended so that the proposal for appointment of a
High Court Judge must initiate upon the recommendation of the Chief Justice
meaning thereby that the Chief Justice alone would be able to initiate the
proposal. It expressly stated that it should not be open to the State
executive to propose a nominee of their own and forward the name of such
nominee to the Centre. In its view, if the State executive disagrees with
the recommendation of the Chief Justice for such other reasons as mentioned
in the Report it should be open to it to disagree with the recommendation
and request the Chief Justice to make a fresh recommendation. The weighty
recommendation of Law Commission that a proposal for appointment of a High
Court Judge can originate only upon the recommendation of the Chief Justice
was in terms negatived by the Constituent Assembly. (CAD Vol. 8, p. 674)
There is nothing in the language of Article 217 that the proposal cannot be
initiated by any of the four constitutional functionaries set out in the
article. If elaborate provision was made for appointment of a High Court
Judge with a view to securing the appointment of the best available man at
the relevant time it would not be conducive to effectuating the purpose
underlying the article if the proposal can be initiated by the Chief
Justice of the High Court alone. Cases are not unknown where the Chief
Justice of the High Court having his own philosophy adopted the same as his
yardstick to determine suitability for appointment and thereby excluded
from his consideration a sizeable section of the Bar. Similarly, the Chief
Justice of India can also initiate a proposal because if he finds someone
practising in the Supreme Court as one suitable for appointment to the High
Court, we see nothing objectionable or improper in his initiating the
proposal. Similarly, there could not be a blanket embargo on the State
executive initiating the proposal. We agree that the State executive should
not make its own recommendation and forward it directly to the Centre. The
State executive initiating the proposal must first forward it to the Chief
Justice of the High Court who would be better informed about the practising
advocates as well as the District Judges subordinate the High Court, and
seek the views of the Chief Justice. The views of both may be forwarded to
the Chief Justice of India. The process of consultation must go on whatever
new facts relevant to the consideration are elicited or obtained by any of
the constitutional functionaries for consideration of the other
constitutional functionaries and this may ultimately lead to a possible
consensus, amongst all the constitutional functionaries and translate the
purpose underlying Article 217 into reality by appointing the best man to
this high office. The submission that any proposal from the State executive
or even from the Central Executive for consideration of the other two
constitutional functionaries would make a serious inroad on the
independence of judiciary is to ignore the role assigned to these tow
constitutional functionaries in the process of appointment. However, the
consultation must be not merely formal but of substance and the scope and
the content of the consultation will be presently examined. 729. But before spelling out the scope and content of consultation
envisaged by Article 217 , it is necessary to refer to Article 224. Frankly,
the scope, ambit and the underlying purpose of Article 224 has consumed
maximum time at the hearing of these matters. In the draft Constitution
there was no provision similar to present Article 224 , which was introduced
by Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 . However, Article 192 of the
draft Constitution provided for constitution of a High Court consisting of
a Chief Justice and such other Judges as the President may from time to
time deem it necessary to appoint. There was a proviso to the article which
provided that the Judges so appointed together with any Additional Judges
appointed by the President in accordance with the next following provisions
of the chapter shall at no time exceed in number such maximum as the
President may by order fix in relation to that Court. Article 216 corresponding to draft Article 192 without proviso has not cast any
obligation on the President to fix maximum number of Judges that can be
appointed in a given High Court. It provides for a flexible situation, in
that the President may, from time to time, appoint such other Judges when
deemed necessary to appoint. If the number was fixed by the Constitution,
every time a constitutional amendment would become necessary if more judges
were required to be appointed. Pragmatism and flexibility informed the
approach of the Constituent Assembly in deleting the proviso and thereby
removing the obligation of the President to fix maximum number of Judges in
relation to each High Court. Article 224 makes provision for appointment of
Additional Judges. The concept of Additional Judges also figured in the
proviso to draft Article 192. Therefore, when the draft Constitution
envisaged appointment of Additional Judges, the expression 'Additional
Judge' may be understood in contradistinction to permanent Judge or an
acting Judge or recalling of a retired High Court Judge. The expression
'permanent Judge' in relation to High Court Judge is to be found in Article
220 which prohibits a permanent Judge of a High Court from pleading or
acting in any court or before any authority in India except the Supreme
Court and the other High Courts. One can legitimately say that the framers
of the Constitution envisaged appointment of an Additional Judge in the
High Court in contradistinction to a permanent Judge or acting Judge. A
retired Judge of a High Court who is requested to sit and act as a Judge of
the High Court is not deemed to be a Judge of the High Court, is not deemed
to be a Judge of the High Court, and can be given no label or nomenclature,
and is certainly not an Additional Judge as contemplated by Article 224. 730. Article 224(1) enables the President to appoint Additional Judges of a
High Court if the conditions enabling the exercise of power are satisfied.
There are two situations, contingencies or eventualities in which alone and
Additional Judge can be appointed in a High Court and they must pre-exist
before an Additional Judge can be appointed. These are : (1) if by reason
of any temporary increase in the business of a High Court; or (2) by reason
of arrears of work therein, it appears to the President that to deal with
the aforementioned situations it is necessary to increase the number of
High Court Judges for the time being, he may do so and may proceed to
appoint duly qualified parsons to be Additional Judges of the court for
such period not exceeding two years, as he may specify. There is thus the
power to appoint Additional Judges with a limitation on power that it can
be exercised if one or the other or both of the aforementioned pre-
conditions for the exercise of the power are satisfied. If one or the other
or both of the prerequisites are satisfied the President may proceed to
appoint an Additional Judge but in the absence of both there is no power in
the President to appoint an Additional Judge in the High Court. Appointment
cannot be made for a period exceeding two years and before or while making
the appointment the number of Judges in the High Court may be increased for
the time being, that is, not permanently. Recalling Article 217(1) which
confers power on the President to appoint a Judge of the High Court, one
can say without the fear of contradiction that the expression 'Judge' in Article 217 includes an Additional Judge. If the pre-conditions set out in Article 224 are satisfied and the President proceeds to exercise the power
to appoint an Additional Judge, he can appoint only such person who is
qualified. The eligibility qualifications for being appointed as a Judge of
the High Court are set out in sub-article (2) of Article 217 and it is
unnecessary to recall those qualifications save and except saying that the
qualifications for a Judge to be appointed under Article 217 or an
Additional Judge to be appointed under Article 224(1) are the same.
However, the tenure of a Judge appointed under Article 217 and one
appointed under Article 224 materially differ. A High Court Judge appointed
under Article 217 is entitled to hold office until he attains the age of 62
years, but in the case of an Additional Judge the period has to be
specified and the maximum period that can be specified by the President for
which he can hold office is two years. The view that the expression 'Judge'
in Article 217 includes an Additional Judge is reinforced by the fact that
while introducing Article 224 by Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act,
1956 , a consequential amendment was inserted in Article 217. In the absence
of the amendment, an Additional Judge would enjoy tenure till he reached
the age of 62 years. In order to avoid any confusion in this behalf the
words" shall hold office, in the case of an Additional Judge or acting
Judge, as provided in Article 224 , and in any other case, until he attains
the age of 62 years "were added in Article 217. If the expression 'Judge'
in Article 217 were not to include an Additional Judge it would be
redundant to incorporate the maximum tenure of two years prescribed in Article 224 for an Additional Judge in Article 217. It was however,
foreseen that if the necessary amendment was not incorporated in Article
217 one could have argued with confidence that even the Additional Judge
would retire on attaining the age of 62 years. Therefore, to put the matter
beyond the pale of controversy while introducing Article 224 in 1956 a
consequential amendment was made in Article 217 that the tenure of an
Additional Judge shall be as set out in Article 224 and that it cannot
exceed two years. It is not necessary to refer to the tenure of an acting
Judge as envisaged in Article 224(3) because that aspect is not relevant to
the present discussion. So far there is no controversy. 731. It may be mentioned that an additional Judge appointed under Article
224 and a Judge of a High Court appointed under Article 217 as far as pay,
privileges, duties, obligations, adjudicatory powers are concerned, are on
par, the glaring difference being in the tenure. But, in this context our
attention was drawn to Krishna Gopal v. Prakash Chandra . An election petition was filed
in the Madhya Pradesh High Court which in course of time came to be
assigned to Suraj Bhan, J. who had retired on February 2, 1971, but the
Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court, after obtaining previous
consent of the President, requested Suraj Bhan, J. to sit and act as a
Judge of that Court under Article 224-A of the Constitution. Before the
allocation of the election petition to Suraj Bhan, J. to sit and act as a
Judge of that Court under Article 224-A of the Constitution. Before the
allocation of the election petition to Suraj Bhan, J. the same was being
heard by Vyas, J. and when an intimation was sent to the petitioner that
his petition was allocated to Suraj Bhan, J. he objected to the same. Suraj
Bhan, J. rejected his application upholding the order of allocation of the
petition to him. This order was challenged by a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution for the issuance of a writ of mandamus directing Suraj
Bhan, J. to forbear from giving effect to the order of the Chief Justice. A
Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dismissed this writ petition. Upon a
certificate under Article 132 , an appeal was filed in this Court. In this
case construction of Article 224-A came up before this Court. Two
contentions were urged on behalf of the appellant. They were : (i) that a
person requested to sit and act as Judge of the High Court under Article
224-A was not a Judge of the High Court for the purpose of Section 80-A of
the Representation of the People Act, and (ii) that even assuming that he
was a Judge for the purpose of Section 80-A of the Act, the election
petition could not, after it had been entrusted to a permanent Judge, be
allocated to a Judge appointed under Article 224-A. This Court rejected
both the contentions but finally observed as under : (SCC p. 137, para 23).
. . All the same, looking to the special facts and circumstances of this
case, we are of the opinion that it is fit and proper and in the interest
of justice that the election petition filed by the appellant be tried by
another learned Judge of the High Court who may be assigned for the purpose
by the Chief Justice of that Court. It seems indeed desirable that election
petitions should ordinarily, if possible, be entrusted for trial to a
permanent Judge of the High Court even though we find that Additional or
acting Judges or those requested under Article 224-A of the Constitution to
sit and act as Judges of the High Court, if assigned for the purpose by the
Chief Justice, are legally competent to hear those matters. This case is hardly of any assistance on the question of eligibility,
capacity and competence of an Additional Judge to undertake any
adjudicatory process of any matter assigned to him by the Chief Justice and
no distinction can be made between a permanent Judge, if one appointed
under Article 217 can be so designated and an Additional Judge appointed
under Article 224. 732. If an Additional Judge can only be appointed either by reason of
temporary increase in the business of the High Court or by reason of
arrears of work therein, what would be the position of such an Additional
Judge at the expiration of his period of two years constitutionally fixed
if the temporary increase and/or the arrears to deal with which he was
appointed remain unabated ? In other words, if the temporary increase to
clear which he was appointed continues to remain uncleared or the arrears
to tackle which he was appointed not only neither decrease nor wholly get
eradicated but remain at the same level or may be found mounting up what
would be the right to further continuance of the Additional Judge ? Some
vital questions arise qua the position and continuance of an Additional
Judge. 733. The questions posed are of such dimension and magnitude in the field
of constitutional law and of such far-reaching effect, defying simple and
straightforward solutions because extreme position was adopted on both
sides. Wisdom and circumspection should therefore be our watch words. 734. The questions posed are : Is the Additional Judge, given the continued
existence of situation which necessitated his initial appointment, entitled
as a matter of right to be reappointed for a further period of two years ?
If in the meantime there is a vacancy in the permanent strength of the High
Court, is the Additional Judge without anything more entitled to be
appointed as permanent Judge ? If Additional Judge was appointed by reason
of any temporary increase in the business of the High Court or by reason of
arrears of work therein or if the temporary increase has become a permanent
feature of the High Court and if the arrears have not only not been reduced
but are mounting up meaning thereby that the prerequisites, existence of
which enabled the President to exercise the power of appointment of
Additional Judge, continue to exist, is he entitled to be reappointed as a
matter of right ? Could he be deemed to be permanently appointed ? Answer
posed on the other side was that he had no right to be considered nor is he
deemed to be appointed as permanent Judge even if he is available and it
would open to the President to appoint anyone else without considering the
case of the Additional Judge whose tenure has come to an end. In other
words, he has neither weightage nor a right to be considered. He is on par,
according to the learned Attorney-General, with any other person in the Bar
or in the subordinate judiciary. 735. One submission may be disposed of at the outset. Conceding the
contention of Mr. Seervai that the position, powers, privileges and
jurisdiction of permanent and Additional Judges of High Court and the
qualifications for their appointment are the same, but the marked contrast
in the raison d'etre of their appointment and the tenure for which they are
appointed cannot be overlooked. The present agonising situation arose from
a common understanding of the requirements of Article 224 both by the
judiciary and the executive in making appointments of High Court Judges
since 1956 till today. Every High Court has a sanctioned strength of
permanent Judges and Additional Judges. Save rare exceptions, not easily
noticeable, whenever a vacancy arose in the permanent strength, the
seniormost Additional Judge was offered the permanent vacancy and in the
vacancy so caused in the strength of Additional Judges a fresh appointment
was made. When I say seniormost Additional Judge, I only refer to the
length of period for which the Judge has worked and one who has worked for
the longest duration amongst Additional Judges is described by me as
seniormost. If the tenure of an Additional Judge specified by the President
in the warrant of appointment expires and there is no vacancy in the
permanent cadre of High Court Judges obviously such Additional Judge was
usually offered a further tenure of ordinarily two years. 736. While making the fresh appointment the procedure followed was one
prescribed in Article 217. Article 224 cannot be divorced from Article 217 because an Additional Judge appointed under Article 224 is a Judge within
the meaning of the expression in Article 217 and such an Additional Judge
before entering upon his office has to make and subscribe an oath or
affirmation according to the form set out in the Third Schedule. Article
224 obliges the President to specify the tenure of the Additional Judges
for such period not exceeding two years. Now, therefore, if the Additional
Judge with the knowledge of the specified period of tenure enters upon his
office, makes and subscribes to the oath and starts functioning as a Judge
of the High Court, undoubtedly when the period expires, if nothing else
takes place he ceases to be a Judge of the High Court. Assuming that he has
to be appointed again, the whole gamut of consultation as constitutionally
ordained in Article 217 has to be gone through over again. Harsh though
this may appear, it is an inescapable situation flowing from the provisions
of the Constitution. Now if the process of consultation starts over again
undoubtedly the various constitutional functionaries are bound to express
their opinion on the relevant merits and demerits of the Judge and the
expression of opinion would be more or less on the same lines as when a
person is being appointed for the first time as a Judge of the High Court.
Whatever canon of construction one may resort to, it is not possible to
hold that the consultation in respect of an Additional Judge who has been
once appointed and whose tenure has expired and being eligible, is being
considered for appointment afresh for a fresh tenure, the relevant
consideration which would govern the decision for appointment would be
different, save and except saying that the constitutional functionaries
will have the additional benefit of the experience of the person concerned
as a Judge of the High Court for the period he was appointed and he worked. 737. Three different contentions have been advanced in this behalf and each
one will have to be separately examined. One submission of Mr. Garg
strongly supported by Mr. Seervai, and learned Advocates for the other
petitioners is that the Additional Judge is not on probation and,
therefore, his eligibility or all those relevant considerations in service
jurisprudence which are taken into account while offering a substantive
appointment of a probationer could not be brought into consideration. The
contention is that his qualifications for being appointed as a judge have
once been examined and accepted, when he was appointed as Additional Judge,
these considerations cannot be re-examined. And at any rate, it is not open
to the Chief Justice of the High Court to sit in appeal over the judgments
of the Judge concerned and reach his own conclusions about the judicial
capacity as flowing from the judgments of the Judge. Another limb of the
submission is that in order to ensure independence of judiciary, an
Additional Judge who has functioned as a Judge and has had numerous
occasions to deal with a litigant, namely, the executive which has the
power to make fresh appointment, should not be at the mercy of the
executive and, therefore, it was urged by Mr. Seervai that if one or other
of the two pre-condition in Article 224 which enabled the President to
exercise the power of appointing an Additional Judge continues to exist a
fresh appointment must either follow as a matter of right or if the
conditions for exercise of the power continue to exist he must be deemed to
have been appointed as a permanent Judge. The submission is that the
permanent Judge is appointed for the routine work of the High Court
including the work to deal with the arrears and if the work load is
sufficient for the permanent strength at the time of initial appointment
and continues to disclose the same position, the initial appointment of the
Additional Judge was not within the purview of Article 224 but it must be
deemed to have been within the purview of Article 217 and, therefore, such
a Judge would be a Permanent Judge. On the other hand, learned Attorney-
General contended that if the appointment is made within the four corners
of Article 224 , the assumption is that the Judge so appointed would either
deal with the problem arising out of the temporary increase in the business
of the High Court or tackle the arrears to clear which he was appointed and
it is not a relevant consideration whether he has succeeded or not
succeeded and it would be open to the Government to appoint him or to
appoint anyone else completely ignoring any claim of such an Additional
Judge whose tenure has expired. It was asserted with emphasis that such an
Additional Judge has no right to be reconsidered and the situation at the
expiry of his tenure is the same as it was at the time of this entry and he
or any other person could have been appointed and he is not entitled to be
considered in priority or preference to any other person who can be picked
up from the Bar or from the subordinate judiciary. Extreme illustrations
were given to make good either point of view by both sides but the
illustrations hardly if ever provide a reliable yardstick to interpret a
constitutional provision. 738. In an emotionally surcharged voice we were told that there were more
than 65 Additional Judges on April 1, 1980 all over the country whose fate
is in balance and, therefore, the Court should be very careful and
circumspect in putting such construction on Article 224 which would not
leave these 65 Additional Judges to the vicissitudes of executive smile or
frown. On the other hand we were told that the whole conspectus of the
articles with which the Court is dealing with in these matters were debated
over a long period in the Constituent Assembly and the trend indicates that
speaker after repeatedly asserted that the mechanism for appointment of
Judges must be so devised that the best in the country is available for
this high constitutional office and that the checks and balances provided
must be such as to weed out and eliminate the unworthies. It was,
therefore, said that such rigid construction should be avoided which would
enable an Additional Judge who has made himself thoroughly undesirable
during the period of his tenure should not be foisted upon the society and
the consumers of justice because the door against his exit is tightly
bolted. We have thus to steer clear of all these extreme propositions. 739. We were told that constitutional conventions and practice are a sure
guide to ascertain, decipher and unravel the intendment of the various
articles. The constitutional conventions and practice as an aid to
construction were canvassed because Article 224 has been so implemented
under a common belief albeit mistaken of the executive and judiciary that
the present impasse is the end-product of it. 740. The proviso to draft Article 192 envisaged appointment of Additional
Judges but the tenure of such Additional Judges was not specified. However,
when the Constitution was adopted and Article 216 took place of draft Article 192 , the proviso was deleted. Article 216 casts an obligation on
the President to appoint a Chief Justice and such other Judges from time to
time as he deems it necessary to appoint. Therefore, the power to appoint
coupled with a duty to appoint has been cast on the President. It is not
necessary consider whether this duty can be enforced by a mandamus. An
extreme illustration was taken that the President may appoint one Chief
Justice and one Additional Judge and the consumers of justice would suffer
inordinate delay in disposal of their cases if the judiciary denies to
itself power to issue and mandamus to the President to perform his function
to appoint such number of Judges keeping in view the institution, disposals
and arrears, to be able to dispose of cases speedily and within a
reasonable time. Such an illustration overlooks a vital point that the
arrears in the courts are not attributable solely to the inadequate number
of Judges in each High Court. It would be merely adding to the length of
this judgment if all the causes more vital than the inadequacy of the
number of Judges contributing to the mounting arrears are enumerated here.
But I cannot resist the temptation of referring to what Mr. Seervai bluntly
stated to the Court that to a considerable extent the senior members of the
Bar are responsible for the sorry state of affairs more so because the
courts have refused to enforce the provision in Order XVII, Rule 2, Code of
Civil Procedure namely that non-availability of counsel is not a ground for
adjournment. Present malaise in this Court was also touched upon by him. Be
that as it may, the Committee appointed by the Government presided over by
the then Chief Justice of India, Shri J. C. Shah, extensively examined the
question of mounting arrears in the High Courts and found that the
inadequacy of number of Judges in each High Court is relatively a minor
factor contributing to the mounting arrears but there are more weighty
factors which are to be tackled with. 241. In a parliamentary democracy with a written Constitution in which
three organs of the Government are clearly marked out, it becomes a primary
duty of the State to provide for fair and efficient administration of
justice. Justice must be within the easy reach of the lowest of the
lowliest. Rancour of injustice hurts an individual leading to bitterness,
resentment and frustration and rapid evaporation of the faith in the
institution of judiciary. Two vital limbs of the justice system are that
justice must be within the easy reach of the weaker sections of the society
and that it must be attainable within a reasonably short time, in other
words, speedily. Leaving aside other factors contributing to the arrears in
courts, it cannot be gainsaid that in each High Court adequate number of
Judges must be appointed and the situation in each High Court must be
regularly reviewed by the President so as to efficiently discharge the duty
cast on him by Article 216. In the course of hearing a statement was made
on behalf of the Union of India that the Government is taking steps to
review the strength of each High Court to determine the adequate strength
of each High Court and then to take steps to make appointments according to
the targets so devised. As this statement is a solemn undertaking to this
Court, it may be reproduced in extenso : But to say that a litigant who wants his case to be disposed of as early as
possible being convinced that his case is not handled by the Court for want
of adequate number of Judges can bring an action to issue a mandamus to the
Government to appoint adequate number of Judges requires more elaborate
arguments and in view of the statement it is not necessary to deal with the
submission. An additional error in the submission founded on a mistaken
belief is that all shortcomings and infirmities in the system can be
remedied by judicial process. There is no greater error than entertaining
such unwarranted belief. Courts cannot cope with all infirmities in the
system. That is the admonition of Frankfurter, J. I quote : This power can be exercised if one or the other of two prerequisites set
out in Article 224 is satisfied, namely, temporary increase in the business
of a High Court or by reason of arrears therein. The article was enacted to
meet these two specific situations only. In practice it appears and not
controverted by anyone, in fact admitted, that the article was worked as if
an entry in the High Court for a permanent judgeship is via Article 224 ,
namely, by first being appointed as an Additional Judge and then when a
vacancy occurs in the permanent strength of the High Court, to be appointed
as a permanent Judge. This has been invariably the practice save in rare
cases ascertainable by microscope. Every one was ordinarily first appointed
as an Additional Judge and in course of time even after once, twice or
thrice being appointed as an Additional Judge till the vacancy occurred in
the permanent strength that one became a permanent Judge. This is clearly
contrary to the intendment of Article 224 , and the present malaise arises
out of this impermissible, yet without exception or with rare exception,
use of Article 224 both by the executive and judiciary. This has also led
to inaction on the part of the President in not reviewing regularly and at
regular intervals the permanent strength of the High Courts. Even Chief
Justices were unconcerned about the undesirable situation in that they have
asked for increase in the strength of Additional Judges. In 1979, Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court even with 10 Additional Judges asked for two
more without any attempt at reviewing the strength of permanent Judges. If
permanent strength was reviewed from time to time the renewal of tenure of
an Additional Judges twice or trice could have been avoided. If an
Additional Judge was appointed to deal with temporary increase in work and
his term is renewed twice or thrice and the temporary increase has become a
permanent feature of the High Court, what was needed was increase in the
permanent strength of the High Court. It is unbecoming for a High Court
Judge to be on two years' tenure repeatedly. That is clearly contrary to
what was intended by Article 224. 745. Ordinarily an Additional Judge save in rare cases was always offered a
permanent judgeship unless he himself wanted to opt out. In order to curb
and thwart an undesirable practice of a person returning to the Bar after
adorning the Bench for a short time, a system of taking an undertaking from
an Additional Judge, that if offered he will accept the permanent judgeship
was commenced upon a note of the former Chief Justice of India, Mr.
Wanchoo, though the practice does not appear to be universal. The tendency
to return to the Bar after adorning the Bench for some time was to be
thwarted. The undertaking was devised to meet this situation. This would
however show that save in rare exceptional case, first appointment was as
an Additional Judge. An Additional Judge will have a fixed tenure and can
safely return to Bar with a perceptible added advantage because it was felt
that there was no other way except to offer first appointment as an
Additional Judge, and therefore a system of taking the undertaking was
devised. But again save in rare exceptional cases an Additional Judge on
the occurring of a vacancy in the permanent strength was always offered a
berth. From this invariable practice, a firm belief, therefore, developed
that an Additional Judge enters upon office with almost an unwritten albeit
incontrovertible assurance to be appointed a permanent Judge. Howsoever
strong the belief may be, it is not borne out by the constitutional
provision. After all, the appointment was as an Additional Judge within the
constraints and limitation of Article 224 and no canon of construction
would permit the court to treat the appointment as one under Article 217. If, therefore, the tenure was of two years, on the expiry of it the
appointment will have to be a fresh appointment and for making such a fresh
appointment, consultation as ordained by Article 217 is inescapable. Once
the consultation starts, all possible hazards in the process of
consultation cannot be wished away and the appointment has to be afresh. 746. It would be at this stage worthwhile to examine the submission that
constitutional convention and practice provide a reliable aid to
construction of constitutional provisions. It was also urged that in
interpreting a constitutional provision implications arising from the
Constitution have to be borne in mind. The submission is that the Court
should not dismiss the universal practice invariably followed for a quarter
of a century in the matter of appointment of Additional and permanent
Judges of the High Court as a common error or common understanding of the
scope, content and ambit of Article 224 , but the Court must proceed on the
basis that both the executive and the judiciary who have a vital role to
play in the matter of appointment of Additional and permanent Judges of the
High Court unambiguously understood Article 224 to provide the only entry
door for permanent judgeship and made recommendations leading to
appointments on the clearest and unquestionable understanding that once an
Additional Judge is appointed in course of time when a vacancy arises in
the permanent strength he would become the permanent Judge. In other words,
from the day of his entry he is more or less a permanent Judge and there
was no question of examining his merits and demerits on the expiration of
each tenure during the period of his additional judgeship leading in a
given situation to his non-appointment. 747. Constitutional interpretation has been a fruitful subject of
discussion amongst judges, jurists and authors. Number of canons have been
devised for interpretation. Language being an imperfect vehicle of
translating thoughts and intendments, when the legislature finishes its
task and produces a legislation in more general terms, while applying its
various provisions to cases and controversies brought before the Court, a
debate always ensues as to what was intended by the legislature in using a
certain expression. 'A word is not crystal, transparent and unchanged; it
is the skin of living thought and may vary greatly in colour and content
according to the circumstances and the time in which it is used'. (Holmes,
J. in Towne v. Eisner, 245 US 418, 425 1918) Word when used in a certain
context may mean a different thing than when used in a different context
and therefore, while construing particular word or expression in a statute
it is better to read the statute as a whole and ask oneself the question : 748. Aids to construction help in finding out the intendment of the
provisions. It is the duty of the Court to ascertain the intendment of a
provision which comes up for construction. What was the purpose in enacting
the provision and whether it was to meet or remedy a certain situation or
provide for a certain eventuality, are all relevant considerations in
ascertaining the intendment of the Constitution. Ascertain the underlying
purpose and give such construction to the provision as would effectuate the
purpose. One such aid, it was urged, is the prevalent conventions and
constitutional practices. Where a Constitution has worked for a reasonably
long time, conventions which grow up relevant to the constitutional
provisions or the constitutional practice can be a torch-bearer in
ascertaining the intendment of the provisions because over a period the
provision has been so understood and worked that it can be safely said that
it was correctly and wisely understood and accurately applied. Coupled with
this is the fact that implications which arise from the structure of the
Constitution itself or from the constitutional scheme may be legitimately
made. An implication was raised from the federal character of the
Australian Constitution in Lord Mayor, Councillors and Citizens of the City
of Melbourne v. Commonwealth (1947 74 Commonwealth LR 31, 70) wherein it
was observed that the intention is to be plainly seen in the very frame of
the Constitution, namely, the federal character of the Constitution. As a
corollary the provision contrary to the implications to be derived from the
federal character of the Australian Constitution was challenged as ultra
vires in State of Victoria v. Commonwealth of Australia (Pay-roll Tax case)
(1971 122 Commonwealth LR 353 : 1971 ALR 449 ), wherein the State of
Victoria had challenged the power of Parliament of the Commonwealth
requiring the State to pay pay-roll tax upon wages paid by it to its
employees in certain departments claiming that the legislation was contrary
to the implications of the Australian Constitution. A question was raised
in that case as under :Does the fact that the Constitution is federal carry
with it implications limiting the law-making powers of the Parliament of
the Commonwealth with regard to the States. The question was answered in the affirmative both on principle and
authority. 749. Similarly, in Commercial Cable Co. v. Government of Newfoundland [1961] 2 A.C. 610 : (86) L.J. P.C. 19 : 115 LT 574 (PC)), the Privy Council
read a limitation on the prerogative power of the Governor conferred by the
Letters Patent imposed by the constitutional practice of the colony. The
Privy Council again in British Coal Corporation v. King [1935] A.C. 500 : 750. Similarly, in Re Alberta Legislation (1938 2 Dom LR 81, 107), it was
held that the Parliament of Canada possesses authority to legislate for the
protection of the right of freedom of Press. That authority, it was said,
rests upon the principle that the powers requisite for the protection of
the Constitution itself arise by necessary implication from the British
North America Act as a whole. A little further it was observed that the
provincial legislature is not entitled to interfere with the working of
parliamentary institutions of Canada as contemplated by the provisions of
British North America Act and the Statute of Dominion in Canada. Such
limitation, it was held, is necessary in order to afford scope for the
working of such Parliamentary institutions and in this region of
constitutional practice it is not permitted to a provincial legislature to
do indirectly what cannot be done directly. This decision was followed in
Saumur v. City of Quebec and Attorney-General of Quebec (1953 4 Dom LR 641, 672). 751. In the State of South Australia v. Commonwealth (1942 65 Commonwealth
LR 373, 447), it was held that some implications arise form the structure
of the Constitution itself, but it is inevitable also that these
implications can only be defined by a gradual process of judicial decision. 752. In U. N. R. Rao v. Indira Gandhi (1971 Supp SCR 46 : , a question was in terms raised that the Court
should interpret Article 75(3) according to its own terms regardless of the
conventions that prevailed in the United Kingdom. Rejecting this
contention, this Court observed as under : (SCC p. 64, para 3)

If the words of an article are clear, notwithstanding any relevant
convention, effect will no doubt be given to the words. But it must be
remembered that we are interpreting a Constitution and not an Act of
Parliament, a Constitution which establishes a Parliamentary system of
Government with a Cabinet. In trying to understante one may well keep in
mind the conventions prevalent at the time the Constitution was framed.This
would show that in arriving at the true intendment of Article 75 the Court
not only took assistance of the form of Government established in India by
the Constitution but simultaneously referred to the conventions in the
United Kingdom and other countries having similar political system being
adjuncts of Parliamentary form of Government. 753. Implication but not the spirit arising from the Constitution is
another aid to construction. After referring to some of the Canadian
decisions, Sikri, C.J. pointed out in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of
Kerala (1973 Supp SCR 1, 152 : ),
that some of the judges in Canada have implied that freedom of speech and
freedom of the Press cannot be abrogated by Parliament or Provincial
legislatures from the words in the Preamble to the Canadian Constitution,
i.e. "with a Constitution similar in principle to that of the United
Kingdom". Examining the submission in that case about implied and recalled
the statement that the rule is established beyond cavil that in construing
the Constitution of the United States, "what is implied is as much a part
of the instrument as what is expressed"(AMERICAN JURISPRUDENCE (2d), Vol.
16, p. 251) and after reviewing a large number of foreign decisions it was
observed that the concept of implications can be raised from the language
and context of the various provisions (see p. 258). At page 316, Hegde, J.
observed that implied limitations on the powers conferred under a statute
constitute a general feature of all statutes. The position cannot be
different in the case of powers conferred under a Constitution. A grant of
power in general terms or even in absolute terms may be qualified by other
express provisions in the same enactment or may be qualified by the
implications of the context or even by consideration arising out of what
appears to be the general scheme of the statute. 754. In Chapter III, Sir Ivor Jennings in The Law and the Constitution,
refers to the conventions of the Constitution. At page 80, the author
observes as under : 755. Implications arising from the provisions of the Constitution,
constitutional conventions and constitutional practice all stand on a
different footing. A constitutional convention when spread over a long
period, of immemorial antiquity, followed invariably becomes entrenched as
a rule of law but any convention contrary to the written provision is of no
validity. Implications may arise from the context in which a provision is
placed or the use of the language in the provision or from the nature of
the power claimed vis-a-vis the whole constitutional scheme. That was how
implied limitations on the power of Parliament to amend the Constitution
were spelt out in Kesavananda Bharati case (1973 Supp SCR 1, 152 : ). Constitutional practice may be spelt
out as a course of conduct over a reasonably long period which may indicate
how the authorities charged with a duty to implement the Constitution have
worked out or implemented a certain provision of the Constitution. 756. To begin with as pointed out earlier, a constitutional convention must
be founded on some provision of law. They provide 'the flesh which clothes
the dry bones of the law, they make the legal situation work, they keep in
touch with the growth of ideas; a constitution does not work itself, it is
worked by men. It is an instrument of national cooperation and the spirit
of cooperation is as necessary as the instrument. Conventions are rules
elaborated for effecting that cooperation'.(Sir Ivor Jennings : THE LAW AND
THE CONSTITUTION, p. 81) As Oppen Heimer in the Constitution of the German
Republic, page 9, observes, that 'conventions which have already begun to
quite a considerable extent, not only to supplement, but also to modify, if
not actually supersede express provisions' grow within a short time. It
would thus distinctly appear that any convention contrary to the provision
of the Constitution and its basic intendment cannot be given effect to as a
convention. Its genesis must be in the provision itself. 757. If Article 224 conferred power on the President to appoint Additional
Judge only in the specified situations set out in the article and for a
fixed limited duration beyond which even the President had no power to
appoint, it cannot be said that because the way in which the article has
been worked, a constitutional convention has grown up that every Additional
Judge right from the day of his entry irrespective of his two years' tenure
would be deemed to be appointed as a permanent Judge or would be entitled
as a matter of right to a renewal of his tenure till a permanent vacancy.
Such a construction of Article 224 would run counter to the plain
intendment of the Constitution and no such convention can be spelt out as
would protanto amend Article 224. Nor any such implication can be raised
that an Additional Judge is deemed to be appointed as a permanent Judge or
he is entitled as of right to a renewal of his tenure till a permanent
berth is found for him. 758. Frankly, there is some force in the submission that a practice has
grown up for over last quarter of a century (1956-81) that whenever an
additional judgeship is offered to a person, he accepts it in the
reasonable belief that in course of time he would get a berth as a
permanent Judge. It may generate hope in him and his expectations could be
said to be well founded and reasonable more so it is, save in rarest of
rare cases, invariably done so far. At the minimal most he is entitled to
be first considered for a fresh tenure of two years or when the permanent
vacancy arises for appointment to that permanent vacancy before any rank
outsider is considered given the situation that the prerequisites which
necessitated his initial appointment continue to exist. 759. No cases were pointed out to us that where there were Additional
Judges in the High Court and a permanent vacancy occurred someone was
appointed who had not functioned as an Additional Judge. An Additional
Judge was usually offered permanent judgeship. Maybe, there might be some
rare cases in which some fortunate few were directly appointed as permanent
Judges but no case was brought to our notice where there were Additional
Judges in a High Court and a permanent vacancy occurred and overlooking the
claims of all Additional Judges either a member of the Bar or a District
Judge was directly appointed to that permanent vacancy. Therefore, there is
no gainsaying the fact that a practice was followed for over 25 years that
an Additional Judge was always first considered and he was entitled to be
considered for a fresh tenure if there was no permanent vacancy and if
there was a vacancy in the permanent strength, for being appointed as a
permanent Judge. A contention of the learned Attorney General to the
contrary that he has no priority, preference, weightage or right to be
considered and that he is on par with any other man who can be brought from
the market would be subversive of the constitutional scheme and must be
rejected. An Additional Judge who has worked for the period of his tenure
has a weightage in his favour compared to a fresh appointee and any process
of appointment while filling in a vacancy must commence with the Additional
Judge whose tenure has come to an end and has led to the vacancy. 760. Two consequential limbs of the same submission may be dealt with here.
If Article 216 postulates fixing of a permanent strength of the High Court
and review of the strength at regular intervals and if Article 224 enables
the President to appoint Additional Judges in the two contingencies
mentioned therein, would it be open to the President to appoint an
Additional Judge when there is a vacancy in the permanent strength of the
High Court. The constitutional scheme is that ordinarily there should be
permanent Judges of the High Court. Article 224 is an enabling provision
conferring power on the President to appoint Additional Judges to meet a
specific situation, namely, a temporary increase in the work of the High
Court or the arrears in the High Court. Ordinarily, therefore, the
Constitution envisages appointment of permanent Judges. Permanent Judges
are appointed to deal with the regular work of the High Court and the
strength is fixed keeping in view the institutions and disposals and
minimum work-load which each Judge is supposed to handle. When permanent
strength of the High Court is fixed and there is a vacancy, it would mean
that for the routine work of the High Court the number of Judges in
inadequate and, therefore, it is incumbent upon the President to fill in
the vacancy unless it can be made out that the work-load in the High Court
does not justify the appointment. But if the permanent vacancy is not
filled in and the President proceeds to appoint an Additional Judge, which
can only be done if there is a temporary increase in the work of the High
Court or if there are arrears, it would mean that the regular work is not
sufficient for the sanctioned strength of permanent Judges and vacancy may
remain unfilled, an Additional Judge is necessary as if temporary increase
in the work of High Court or arrears cannot be dealt with by permanent
Judges. Two situations cannot coexist. Additional Judges can be appointed
when the permanent Judges while dealing with the regular work of the High
Court are unable to deal with such temporary increase in the work of the
High Court or clear the arrears. If the permanent strength is reduced by
not filling in a vacancy and it is considered not necessary to fill in such
vacancy it would only imply that not only regular work of the High Court is
being adequately handled but any onter work in the High Corut can also be
handled by the number of Judges then working in the High Court. In such a
situation appointment of Additional Judge cannot be justified and in the
absence of pre-conditions set out in Article 224 the appointment of an
Additional Judge would be plainly outside the purview of Article 224 and
contrary to the intendment of Article 224. Therefore, when a permanent post
is vacant an Additional Judge cannot be appointed. 761. But having said this, it must also be conceded that an Additional
Judge even if appointed, could not be deemed to be a permanent Judge. If
the President appoints an Additional Judge and specifies his tenure as two
years in the warrant of appointment, it is not open to the appointee to
ignore the tenure and to expect the appointment as being of a permanent
Judge. A reference in this connection was invited to the Waterside Workers
Federation of Australia v. J. W. Alexander Ltd. (1918 25 Commonwealth LR 434) Section 12 of the Common-wealth Conciliation & Arbitration Act
provided for the appointment of a President. The provision was to the
effect that" the President shall be appointed by the Governor-General from
amongst the Justices of the High Court. He shall be entitled to hold office
during good behaviour for seven years... ". The Constitution provided for
tenure of High Court Judges during good behaviour and they were not
removable except by the Governor-General-in-Council on address from both
Houses of Parliament praying for such removal on specified grounds (Section 72). The contention was that if the President was to be Justice of the High
Court and the tenure was only for a period of seven years, this was
contrary to Section 72 of the (Australian) Constitution and the appointment
is invalid and that the appointment being non-severable from the main Act,
the whole Act was invalid. The Chief Justice who presided over the Bench
held that the word 'appointed' is used in the sense of assignment and the
life tenure is not whittled down by making a specific appointment for a
certain period. Views contrary to the view of the Chief Justice are also
expressed but this decision hardly helps in resolving the problem posed in
this case. 762. If the President even by a misconception of a situation, makes an
appointment specified in Article 224 limited for a duration of two years,
it is inconceivable that the appointee can ignore the tenure and claim to
be appointed as a permanent Judge. Undoubtedly consultation for the
purposes of Article 224 and for appointing a permanent Judge under Article
217 is of the same width and dimension and the constitutional functionaries
involved in the process of appointment are all the same, nonetheless power
of the President to appoint for a fixed duration in a given situation even
if the situation is shown not to exist, cannot be understood to mean that
the President had some other power under some other article and is deemed
to have acted under that article. In such a situation it may possibly
appear that the initial appointment was bad. It was, however, urged that
while purporting to appoint an Additional Judge under Article 224 , the
clear and unmistakable intention was to appoint a permanent Judge; this
intention cannot be defeated by use of such words as 'additional' and 'for
two years'. The Court must give effect to the intention. It was said that
the Judge was appointed not because there was temporary increase in the
work of the High Court or the arrears therein but to deal with the cases in
the High Court and in such a situation the appointment has to be under Article 217. If it is so, the Judge would be deemed to be appointed a
permanent Judge with the tenure prescribed in Article 217. The submission
is that the intention was to exercise power under Article 217 but by a
mistaken understanding it was treated under Article 224 and the tenure was
therefore, limited to two years but this is done in disregard of the duty
of the President under the Constitution, and the Court should not disregard
the intention and must enforce the duty. Specific submission is that in a
conflict between a qualified intention and an obligatory duty, the Court
would enforce the latter. Reliance was placed on Shewpujanrai Indrasanrai
Ltd. v. Collector of Customs , wherein the Collector of Customs ordered confiscation of
gold and imposed penalty of Rs. 10 lacs on payment of which gold was to be
released. Penalty was levied with two conditions and it was conceded that
he had no power to impose conditions. The question was whether the whole
order was void, or two impermissible conditions could be severed and order
upheld. This Court held that the impermissible conditions were severable
and they were struck down and order was upheld. In this connection,
reliance was also placed on the decision of Y. Mahaboob Sheriff v. Mysore
State Transport Authority , wherein the question was whether a permit granted for one
year was according to law. Section 58(1)(a) read with Section 58(2) of the
Motor Vehicles Act enabled the authority to grant permit for a period not
less than three years. It was urged that order granting permit was bad
being outside the provision. This Court held that the intention to grant
permit was manifest and giving effect to the intention directed the
authority to issue a permit for a period not less than three years and not
more than five years as the authority may specify. I fail to see how these
would render any assistance in this case. Here the President has
specifically set out in the warrant of appointment that the Judge is
appointed as 'Additional Judge' for 'a period of two years'. Even if the
prerequisite for exercise of power was absent and, therefore, it was an
impermissible exercise of power under Article 224 , there was no intention
to appoint a permanent Judge which this Court by a deeming fiction can
enforce. Doctrine of severability is not attracted. The intention not shown
to be to appoint permanent, as two years' tenure furnishes contrary
indication, the submission that Court must enforce it must be negatived. 763. I may then turn to the next submission incidental to the points under
discussion. It was said that if an Additional Judge has to be appointed
either for dealing with the temporary increase in the work of the High
Court or for tackling arrears in the High Court the Constitution-makers
believed that the situation has reached such a stage that an Additional
Judge if appointed for a period of two years would be able to bring relief.
It may be that the problem may not be wholly solved within the period of
two years but the reasonable expectation was that a period of two years
would provide adequate length of time to the Additional Judge to deal with
the problem for tackling which he is appointed. Therefore, Article 224 provides for a tenure not exceeding two years. By and large save with very
recent rare exceptions the appointment of Additional Judge in the first
instance has always been for two years. And it should be so, because no one
is unaware of the three-dimensional problem of arrears corroding the vitals
of the justice delivery system and presenting a formidable threat to it.
There is no short cut and there are no ready-made solutions and the problem
cannot be overnight wished away. In fact, with sadness the agonising fact
must be confessed that no serious efforts have been made to tackle the
problem and whatever spasmodic or sporadic attempts have been made have
proved counter-productive. It was, therefore, assumed that a period of
reasonable duration such as two years would give adequate opportunity to an
Additional Judge appointed for a specific task and the approach in
appointment would be a result-oriented approach. If this was the underlying
assumption in enacting Article 224 , the appointment of short-term duration
of six months or in the two cases before us, of three months, is
inconsistent with the intendment of Article 224 and unbecoming of the
dignity of a High Court Judge. Article 224 confers power on the President.
It is enacted for a specific purpose. There is an underlying purpose while
conferring such power on the President. To effectuate that purpose not only
a power of appointment is given but the President is authorised to make
such an appointment for a period not exceeding two years. If when making
the appointment of an Additional Judge it must be deemed to have been
assumed that there is such temporary increase in the work of the High Court
or there are such arrears that it has become a compelling necessity to
appoint Additional Judges to deal with the situation, the appointment for
such a ridiculously short duration of three months or six months appears
not only to be an exercise in futility but is inconsistent with the
intendment of Article 224. Appointment under Article 224 can only be made
as repeatedly pointed out, to meet the specific contingencies. Such
appointment cannot be made for the purpose of making inquiry into the
suitability, eligibility or fitness of the incumbent Additional Judge at
the time of consideration of his appointment for a fresh term. In this
behalf both the judiciary and the executive are in the same bracket. In the
case of Mr. S. N. Kumar and Mr. O. N. Vohra, the Chief Justice of India
recommended an extension for a period of six months in order to gain time
to make inquiries in respect of complaints which appear to have been
mentioned by the Law Minister in the correspondence. This is utterly
impermissible. Chief Justice of India could not have recommended extension
of six months, not for dealing with temporary increase nor for tackling
arrears, but for gaining time to complete his inquiry. The Law Minister in
his turn presumably must have advised the President to grant extension for
three months. Such short-term appointments are wholly inconsistent and
contrary to the clear intendment of Article 224 and unbecoming of the
dignity of a High Court Judge. I am not prepared to believe even on a
hypothetical case that in foreseeable future a situation may arise when an
appointment of an Additional Judge in necessary for such ridiculously short
term of three months or six months to dispose of temporary increase in work
or to tackle arrears. If such a situation can be imagined, better let that
work be dealt with by permanent Judges rather than appointing persons to
such high constitutional office for a ridiculously short period. 764. To put the position beyond the pale of controversy, it must be
emphasised, even at the cost of repetition, that whenever the tenure of an
Additional Judge is about to expire, sufficiently in advance the process of
consultation for considering his case for appointment as envisaged by Article 217 must start and it must proceed along the hitherto chalked-out
lines. It has to be completed sufficiently in advance before the tenure is
to expire and a decision has to be taken. If the incumbent of the office is
considered suitable for a fresh tenure, keeping in view the only two
relevant considerations, namely, the existence of the temporary increase in
the work of the Court or the continued existence of the arrears for
resolving or tackling which the Judge was appointed, his fresh tenure
should be fixed. If on objective consideration it appears that the
situation is not likely to improve even within a period of twe years,
normally the fresh tenure should be of two years unless a contrary
legitimate decision verifiable on objective facts is reached that the
problem can be resolved within a short period which should in no case be
less than one year. One cannot appoint the lowest grade servants on such a
short-term duration of six months or three months. It violently hurts the
dignity of a Judge of a High Court to be appointed for a period of six
months or three months and that during this period he is not supposed to
clear the arrears to deal with which he was appointed but during the period
of three months either the executive or the Chief Justice of India will be
holding their inquisitions to consider his future suitability, a decision
which these two high constitutional functionaries could not reach within a
period of two years for which initially the Additional Judge was appointed.
We emphatically declare that short-term extensions of three months or six
months are beyond the intendment of Article 224. Ordinarily, as herein
indicated the fresh tenure must be for two years subject to the overriding
consideration that if an honest and legitimate opinion can be formed by all
the constitutional functionaries that the temporary increase in the High
Court or the arrears to tackle which the Additional Judge was appointed
could be resolved to the satisfaction of all within a period of say one
year, the duration can be of one year but not less than that in any case. 765. In passing it was briefly stated that there can be a short-term
appointment when in a near future a vacancy in the permanent cadre of the
High Court is likely to occur. That approach is hardly relevant because
even if the Additional Judge is appointed, say for a period of one year,
and a vacancy occurs within three months of his appointment, there is no
bar in law in offering him the permanent appointment and if the work-load
still justified, to appoint someone else as Additional Judge. 766. The stage is now reached where it would be appropriate to deal with
the scope and content of consultation as envisaged by Article 217. It may
be recalled that Article 222 also provides for consultation with the Chief
Justice of India when the President proposes to transfer a Judge of a High
Court to another High Court. The question posed is whether consultation as
envisaged by Article 217 and the consultation envisaged by Article 222 is
the same or there is some marked divergence in it. Mr. Seervai in terms
said that scope and ambit of consultation with constitutional functionaries
both under Article 217(1) and Article 222(1) is the same, only content may
differ because the purpose of consultation under both the articles is
different, to wit, under Article 217 , consultation is to be had for
appointment as High Court Judge while under Article 222(1) consultation is
for the purpose of transfer of a High Court Judge from one High Court to
another High Court. There are a number of articles in the Constitution
which provide for consultation with different authorities. Article 124(1) provides for appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court by the President
after consultation with the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High
Courts in States as the President may deem necessary and the proviso to Article 124(2) makes it obligatory on the President to consult the Chief
Justice of India in case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice of India. The marginal note of Article 143 which confers advisory
jurisdiction on the Supreme Court specifies the power of the President to
consult Supreme Court. Article 217 provides for consultation with the Chief
Justice of the High Court, Chief Justice of India and the Governor of the
State while making appointment of a Judge of the High Court. Article 222 provides for consultation with the Chief Justice of India before
transferring a Judge of the High Court to any other High Court. Article 233 provides for appointment of the District Judges by the Governor of the
State in consultation with the High Court. Article 234 provides for
recruitment of persons other than District Judges to the judicial service
in accordance with the rules made by the Governor in that behalf after
consultation with the State Public Service Commission and with the High
Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the State. Article 320(3) makes consultation obligatory with the Union Public Service Commission or
State Public Service Commissions, in respect of matters specified in the
article. The word 'consultation' has thus been used in different contexts
and different authorities are required to be consulted for different
purposes before exercise of certain power. Obviously, therefore, the scope
and content of consultation may vary from situation to situation. The word
'consult' has been defined to mean 'to discuss something together, to
deliberate', deliberation being the quintessence of consultation. The word
'consult' would take its colour and its content and scope will depend upon
the context in which it is used. If the consultation is for appointment all
those relevant considerations which enter the verdict before an appointment
is made would be the subject-matter of consultation. If the consultation is
for transfer of a High Court Judge under Article 222(1) the word
'consultation' would mean examination of all those relevant aspects to be
presently mentioned including the consequences of transfer. Chandrachud, J.
affirmed the observation in Chandramouleshwar Prasad v. Patna High Court
, on what
constitutes consultation within the meaning of Article 233(1). It reads as
under : (SCC p. 63, para 7)Consultation or deliberation is not complete or
effective before the parties thereto make their respective points of view
known to the other or others and discuss and examine the relative merits of
their views. If one party makes a proposal to the other who has a counter-
proposal his mind which is not communicated to the proposer the direction
to give in effect to the counter-proposal without anything more, cannot be
said to have been issued after consultation. This observation provides the content and ambit of the process of
consultation. Though this observation has been made in the context of Article 233(1) but it is accepted as applicable to consultation in Article
222(1) and in my opinion it is good law even for Article 217(1). At another
stage it was observed that 'deliberation is the quintessence of
consultation'. That implies that each individual case must be considered
separately on the basis of its own facts. Krishna Iyer, J. in his
concurring opinion in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , ,
recalling the observation in Chandramouleshwar Prasad case extracted hereinbefore,
observed that consultation in order to fulfil its normative function must
be real, substantial and effective consultation based on full and proper
materials placed before the constitutional functionaries. In the context of
consultation for transfer he examined various facets on which consultation
must be focussed and concluded that the Government must forward every
possible material to the Chief Justice of India so that he is in a position
to give an effective opinion. Maybe, the opinion of the Chief Justice of
India may not be binding on the Government, but it is entitled to great
weight and is normally to be accepted by the Government in order to avoid
the charge that the power is exercised whimsically or arbitrarily. These
observations on the scope and content of consultation in the context of Article 222 would mutatis mutandis apply to the scope and ambit of
consultation in Article 217. To recall the words of Justice K. Subba Rao in R. Pushpam v. State of Madras : 1953 1 Mad LJ 88 : 66
Mad LW 53)," the word 'consult' implies a conference of two or more persons
or an impact of two or more minds in respect of a topic in order to enable
them to evolve a correct, or at least, a satisfactory solution ", would
provided a rational, legal and constitutional yardstick to measure and
ascertain the scope and content of consultation as contemplated in Article
217(1). It must not be forgotten that the consultation is with reference to
the subject-matter of consultation, and therefore, the relevant facets of
the subject-matter must be examined, evaluated and opined upon to complete
the process of consultation. 767. Reverting to Article 217(1) , the consultation is for the purpose of
appointment of a judge of High Court. The constitutional functionaries to
be consulted are the Chief Justice of the High Court, Governor of the State
and Chief Justice of India. Attention must first be focussed on what are
the relevant considerations apart from the qualifications prescribed in the
Constitution while making a proposal for appointment of a High Court Judge.
The questions, one would pose to oneself are : (i) does he satisfy the
qualifications prescribed in Article 217(2); (ii) whether he is of
sufficiently mature age which is generally considered a good guide for a
sombre approach in a law court; (iii) is he of unimpeachable integrity; (iv) has he a spotless character; (v) is he a man of reliable habits; (vi)
what is his equipment in law; (vii) does he subscribe to the social
philosophy and values enshrined in the Constitution; (viii) does he suffer
from any insurmountable aberrations; (ix) does he disclose a capacity to
persuade and be persuaded; (x) would he have a team spirit; (xi) has he a
quick grasp, a smart intellect and a compassionate heart. These are only
illustrative and not exhaustive. As pointed out earlier, the Chief Justice
of the High Court who would ordinarily and generally speaking be the
initiator of the proposal would evaluate the candidate in his mind from all
these angles and set out his opinion in the proposal formulated by him. The
State executive will focus on the aspects other than his legal acumen and
equipment, his grasp, his ability to deal with complex legal problems being
brought before him, because in that behalf the Chief Justice is more
advantageously placed. Undoubtedly, on character and integrity with the
resources at the command of the State it could express its opinion. If it
has some other opinion which runs counter and contrary to what the Chief
Justice of the High Court has stated, it must inform the Chief Justice of
the High Court of whatever is in its possession and permit the Chief
Justice of the High Court to react. After this two-way discussion has
followed, the proposal may be sent to the Union Minister of Justice who in
turn must pass it on to the Chief Justice of India. The Chief Justice of
India, free from local, parochial, regional, caste considerations
prevailing at the State level would in meticulous detail examine all
aspects of the matter. If he has reliable sources for collecting further
information it would be open to him to do so. If he collects something
which appears to be not known either to the Chief Justice of the High Court
or the State executive, he may set out the same and refer the proposal back
for the consideration of the aforementioned two authorities. After this
exhaustive discussion - not expected to be the oral or telephonic
discussion or personal discussion - if there is a meeting of the minds on
relevant aspects of the matter with possible differences of opinion, the
same has to be dealt with by the Minister of Justice who may in turn give
his advice, not examinable by the Court, to the President. The consultation
has to be meaningful, purposeful, result oriented and of substance. Much
water has flown below the bridges when initially it was said that when a
duty is cast to consult the authority, one who has to consult, has to
inform of its proposal to the authority to be consulted and wait for some
time for reply and forget the whole thing. After the decision in Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , it is now the law of the land that
wherever the President can exercise power in consultation with the Chief
Justice of India or other constitutional functionaries, the consultation
has to be on all relevant aspects which would enter the final verdict. All
the parties involved in the process of consultation must put all the
material at its command relevant to the subject under discussion before all
other authorities to be consulted. Nothing can be kept back. Nothing can be
withheld. Nothing can be left for the eye of any particular constitutional
functionary. To recall the words of Justice Krishna Iyer (sic Justice
Untwalia) in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , at SCR proposed
action of transfer must be communicated to him and all his doubts and
queries must be adequately answered by the Government. The President has,
however, a right as rightly conceded by Mr. Seervai upon consideration of
all relevant facts to differ from the other constitutional functionaries
for cogent reasons and taken a contrary view. Chandrachud, J. in his
judgment stated as under : (SCC p. 227, para 37) Article 222(1) which
requires the President to consult the Chief Justice of India is founded on
the principle that in a matter which concerns the judiciary vitally, no
decision ought to be taken by the executive without obtaining the views of
the Chief Justice of India who by training and experience, is in the best
position to consider the situation fairly, competently and objectively. But
there can be no purposeful consideration of a matter, in the absence of
facts and circumstances on the basis of which alone the nature of the
problem involved can be appreciated and the right decision taken. It must,
therefore, follow that while consulting the Chief Justice, the President
must make the relevant data available to him on the basis of which he can
offer to the President the benefit of his considered opinion. If the facts
necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are not made available to the
Chief Justice, he must ask for them because, in casting on the President
the obligation to consult the Chief Justice, the Constitution at the same
time must be taken to have imposed a duty on the Chief Justice to express
his opinion on nothing less than a full consideration to the matter on
which he is entitled to be consulted. The fulfilment by the President, of
his constitutional obligation to place full facts before the Chief Justice
and the performance by the latter, of the duty to elicit facts which are
necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are parts of the same process
and are complementary to each other. The faithful observance of these may
well earn a handsome dividend useful to the administration of justice.
Consultation within the meaning of Article 222(1) , therefore, means full
and effective, not formal or unproductive, consultation. So far there is no controversy. 768. The learned Attorney-General, however, contended that the consultation
is obligatory when the President proceeds to exercise his power of
appointment but in the case of non-appointment consultation is not
obligatory. There is an apparent fallacy in this submission. This argument
proceeds on the erroneous assumption that there is something like a process
of appointment and a distinct and independent process of non-appointment.
Can one start a process of non-appointment either in case of a fresh
appointee or in case of a fresh tenure of an Additional Judge who has
already served as High Court Judge for the period for which he is appointed
by the President under Article 224 ? What has to start is a process of
appointment. The Chief Justice, when there is a clear vacancy, has to
initiate the proposal for appointment. He may think of selecting someone
from the Bar or from the subordinate judiciary. But what he initiates is a
proposal for appointment. It is unthinkable that the Chief Justice of High
Court would start a proposal for non-appointment for the first time. Such a
situation is possible (sic) in case of an Additional Judge, an aspect to be
presently examined. But save such a situation what happens is that the
Chief Justice of the High Court thinks of certain names and ultimately
reaches his own decision and initiates his proposal for appointment. This
is a process of appointment. The proposal is forwarded to the State
executive as consultation with the Governor is obligatory. Assuming the
Governor does not agree, is it that the further examination of the proposal
must come to an end ? That is not the constitutional scheme. The Governor
may disagree or set out his valid reasons for disagreeing with the proposal
of the Chief Justice but he cannot put an embargo on further examination of
the proposal by the other constitutional functionaries. If the view
advanced by Attorney-General that once one of the constitutional
functionaries does not assent to the proposal the proposal falls there and
cannot be further examined is accepted, it would be putting the power of
veto on a constitutional functionary only entitled to be consulted. On a
true interpretation of Article 217 , the proposal must move further. It must
reach the Chief Justice of India and the Minister of Justice. There might
be differences of opinion as they have surfaced in the case of Mr. S. N.
Kumar and Mr. O. N. Vohra. That is inevitable when four constitutional
functionaries are involved in the decision-making process. Ultimately the
President may not accept the proposal and drop the proposal resulting in
non-appointment. There is nothing like an independent process of non-
appointment. 769. This aspect becomes vital in the case of Additional Judge. When
initial term for which the Additional Judge was appointed is about to
expire, if one can legitimately think of a process of non-appointment, the
Chief Justice of the High Court may sit silent till the last day and the
Judge walks out. Does he have a veto sub silentio over other constitutional
functionaries ? The answer is an emphatic no. It must be the obligatory
duty of the Chief Justice to initiate the proposal. Maybe, his initiation
of the proposal may start with a recommendation that he is not in favour of
a fresh term for the concerned Additional Judge. He is entitled to express
his opinion. Proposal has, however, to be proceeded further and must be
sent to the Governor of the State who with his own opinion endorsed in the
proceeding should forward the same to the Minister of Justice and who in
turn must send it to the Chief Justice of India. No constitutional
functionary merely entitled to be consulted has a right to kill the
proposal on his own. When there are differences of opinion qua a person
amongst the three constitutional functionaries entitled to be consulted, it
is inevitable in the very scheme of things that the President will have to
choose keeping in view the fundamental assumption underlying this complex
scheme that the best must be appointed and the doubtful must be eliminated.
Therefore, there is nothing like a process of non-appointment in respect of
which consultation can be echewed. 770. How far the provision contained in Article 124 would be helpful in
ascertaining the scope of consultation in Article 217 as also the
contention about primacy of the opinion of the Chief Justice of India and
the response to the argument on behalf of the respondents that the three
constitutional functionaries to be consulted are coordinate authorities ?
In fact, reference to Articles 124 and 126 is only incidental because the
construction of these two articles did not figure directly in the
contentions canvassed in these cases. Attention was drawn to them to point
out that there are situations envisaged by the framers of the Constitution
where the President, the highest executive in the country, may proceed to
appoint Chief Justice of India, the highest at the apex of the judicial
hierarchy, without consultation with any functionary in the judicial branch
of the State. Article 124 provides for establishment and constitution of
Supreme Court. Sub-article (2) provides that every Judge of the Supreme
Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and
seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of
the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the
purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years. There
is a proviso which is material. It reads as under :Provided that in the
case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief
Justice of India shall always be consulted. Sub-article (2) of Article 124 which provides for appointment of every
Judge of the Supreme Court will comprehend appointment of Chief Justice of
India also. Incidentally it was also pointed out that upon a superficial
view of Article 124 , Chief Justice of India may be appointed by the
President without consultation with any functionary in the judicial branch. Article 126 caters to a situation where an acting Chief Justice of India is
required to be appointed. It provides that when the office of the Chief
Justice of India is vacant or when the Chief Justice is, by reason of
absence or otherwise, unable to perform the duties of his office, the
duties of the office shall be performed by such one of the other Judges of
the Court as the President may appoint for the purpose. 771. Now, power is conferred on the President to make appointment of Judge
of Supreme Court after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme
Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem
necessary. The submission is that the expression 'may deem necessary'
qualifies the expression 'consultation' and that if he deems otherwise the
President can proceed to make appointment of the Chief Justice of India
without consultation with any of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the
High Court. In other words, it was submitted on behalf of the respondents,
the President has a discretion to consult or not to consult Judges of the
Supreme Court and High Courts before making appointment of Chief Justice of
India. It was pointed out that where consultation is obligatory it is
specifically provided and refernce was made to the proviso extracted
hereinabove wherein it is stated that it would be obligatory upon the
President to consult the Chief Justice of India before making appointment
of a Judge of the Supreme Court other than the Chief Justice of India.
Undoubtedly, the proviso leaves no option to the President but to consult
the Chief Justice of India while making appointment of a Judge of the
Supreme Court other than the Chief Justice of India, but it is rather
difficult to accept the construction as suggested on behalf of the
respondents that in making appointment of the Chief Justice of India the
President is at large and may not consult any functionary in the judicial
branch of the State before making appointment of Chief Justice of India.
The expression 'may deem necessary' qualifies the number of Judges of the
Supreme Court and High Courts to be consulted. What is optional is
selection of number of Judges to be consulted and not the consultation
because the expression 'shall be appointed after consultation' would
mandate consultation. An extreme submission that the President may consult
High Court Judges for appointment of the Chief Justice of India omitting
altogether Supreme Court Judges does not commend to us, because the
consultation with 'such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High
Courts' would clearly indicate that the consultation has to be with some
Judges of the Supreme Court and some Judges of the High Courts. The
conjunction 'and' is clearly indicative of the intendment of the framers of
the Constitution. If there was disjunctive 'or' between Supreme Court and
High Courts in sub-article (2) of Article 124 there could have been some
force in the submission that the President may appoint Chief Justice of
India ignoring the Supreme Court and after consulting some High Court
Judges. Undoubtedly, sub-article (2) does not cast an obligation to consult
all Judges of the Supreme Court and all Judges of the High Courts but in
practical working the President in order to discharge his function of
selecting the best suitable person to be the Chief Justice of India must
choose such fair sprinkling of Supreme Court and High Court Judges as would
enable him to gather enough and relevant material which would help him in
decision-making process. Mr. Seervai submitted that this Court must avoid
such construction of Article 124 which would enable the President to
appoint Chief Justice of India without consultation with any judicial
functionaries. That is certainly correct. But then he proceeded to suggest
a construction where, by a constitutional convention, any necessity of
consultation would be obviated and yet the executive power to be choosy and
selective in appointment of Chief Justice of India can be controlled or
thwarted. He said that a constitutional convention must be read that the
seniormost amongst the puisne Judges of the Supreme Court should as a rule
be appointed as Chief Justice of India except when he is physically unfit
to shoulder the responsibilities. This constitutional convention, it was
said, when read in Article 124(2) would obviate any necessity of
consultation with any functionary in the judicial branch before making
appointment of Chief Justice of India and yet would so circumscribe the
power of the President as not to enable the executive to choose a person of
its bend and thinking. In this very context it was pointed out that Article
126 permits the President to appoint even the juniormost judge of the
Supreme Court to be an acting Chief Justice of India and it was said that
such an approach or such construction of Article 126 would be subversive of
the independence of judiciary. It was said that if the juniormost can be
appointed acting Chief Justice of India, every Judge in order to curry
favour would decide in favour of executive. And as far as Article 124 is
concerned it was said that if the convention of seniority is not read in Article 124(2) , every Judge of the Supreme Court would be a possible
candidate for the office of Chief Justice of India and on account of
personal bias would be disqualified from being consulted. There is no
warrant for such an extreme position and the reflection on the Judges of
the Supreme Court is equally unwarranted. On the construction as indicated
above there will be positive limitation on the power of the President while
making appointment of Chief Justice of India and it is not necessary to
read any limitation on the power of the President under Article 126 while
making appointment of a Judge of the Supreme Court as acting Chief Justice
of India. But the observation is incidental to the submission and may be
examined in an appropriate case. And the question of construction is kept
open. 772. If it is held that an Additional Judge before he is not appointed for
a fresh term on the expiry of his initial term of appointment has a
weightage in that he has a right to be considered before he is dropped and
that this consideration must proceed along the line of consultation under Article 217 with three constitutional functionaries and if in the ultimate
analysis he is not appointed without completing the process of
consultation, is the decision open to judicial review ? Simultaneously, the
question would be whether in the case of a first appointment from the Bar
when the Chief Justice may proceed to cast his glance on the Bar for
selecting the best person and initiate the proposal for appointment of a
particular person which gets stuck up or dropped before completing the
process of consultation, is such a decision subject to judicial review ? Is
the Court in a position to grant any relief ? There is no doubt in my mind
on one point that whenever a proposal for appointment is initiated by any
of the constitutional functionaries before it can be killed at any stage
the process of consultation must go through in its entirety. When I say
that the process of consultation must go through in its entirety I mean
that the initiator of the proposal must forward the proposal to other
constitutional functionaries according to the channel and the proposal must
reach ultimately the President. It is not open to any of the constitutional
functionaries entitled to be consulted to sit tight over the proposal
without expressing opinion on the merits of the proposal and by sheer
inaction kill the proposal. Viewed from this angle when a term of
Additional Judge is about to expire it must be deemed obligatory on the
Chief Justice of the High Court in which the Additional Judge is
functioning to initiate the proposal very much in time for completing the
process of consultation through various stages before the period of initial
appointment expires. Maybe, that the Chief Justice is not willing to
recommend him for his own reasons. He may say so and forward his own view
through the appropriate channel of communication for consultation. The
Chief Justice of the High Court has no veto by sheer inaction to deal with
the fate of an Additional Judge. That is not the role assigned to him and
he cannot arrogate the same to himself by his own inaction. It may be that
in case of a fresh appointment the Chief Justice may not initiate the
proposal at all because he may not be inclined to fill in the vacancy. But
it is equally possible that in such a situation any other constitutional
functionary entitled to be consulted in the matter of appointment of a
Judge of the High Court can initiate the proposal and the proposal must
move along and reach each constitutional functionary entitled to be
consulted ultimately culminating in the proposal reaching the President
with all the collected material in the process of consultation. So far
there is no controversy. The question is, if in case of an Additional Judge
in whose favour there is a weightage and he is entitled to be considered as
held above, a proposal is killed or an affirmative decision is reached not
to appoint him without completing the process of consultation in its letter
and spirit, would the Additional Judge be entitled to question the validity
of the decision and would the decision be subject to judicial review ? The
answer is in the affirmative. This right to question the decision and the
power in the Court to grant relief whatever may be the form in which the
relief may be moulded, flows directly from the right of the Additional
Judge to be considered for being appointed for a fresh term or as a
permanent Judge. Right to be considered for a further term or as permanent
Judge necessitates full and effective consultation. Any drawback, defect or
deficiency in the process of consultation may invalidate the decision. Such
invalid decision when questioned, the court may not be able to direct
appointment, but the court can certainly give a direction to complete the
process of consultation which may lead to a different result because the
assumption is that high constitutional functionaries involved in the
process of consultation will act bona fide and in the highest tradition of
fair administration. If the decision is shown to be based on extraneous or
irrelevant considerations or mala fide such executive decision is always
open to judicial review. I need not affirm this well-established
proposition by precedents. The case of a seniormost District Judge may be
on par with the Additional Judge. But the same cannot be said for a fresh
appointee. He was not entitled to be appointed. He had no right to the
post. When a person is being selected from the Bar, even if a proposal is
initiated and is killed without completing the process of consultation
there being no right in such person to the post or he is not entitled as a
matter of right to be appointed, the decision not to appoint him will not
be a subject-matter of judicial review, because it is not possible to grant
him any relief. 773. Having examined the true meaning and effect of the relevant articles
of the Constitution and keeping in view what is discussed hereinabove, it
is now time to turn to the two petitions, one filed by the four Bombay
Advocates brought before this Court in Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 and
the second filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde in the High Court of Delhi and
brought before this Court in Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981. These two
cases specifically challenge the constitutional validity of the circular
dated March 18, 1981, sent by the Law Minister, Government of India, to the
Governor of Punjab and the Chief Ministers of all States in India, to the
Governor of Punjab and the Chief Ministers of all States in India, and
secondly granting of short-term extension to three Judges of Delhi High
Court, Sarvashri O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad, and subsequently
not appointing Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar by not granting them a
fresh tenure of High Court judgeship. 774. Law Minister appears to have stirred up the hornet's nest by the
impugned circular dated March 18, 1981. This circular in its preamble
recites that repeated suggestions have been made to the Government by
several bodies and forums including the States Reorganisation Commission,
the Law Commission and various Bar Associations that to further national
integration and to combat narrow parochial tendencies bred by caste,
kinship and other local links and affiliations, one-third of the Judges of
a High Court should as far as possible be form outside the State in which
the High Court is situated. With a view to taking first step towards this
goal the circular was issued. The circular desired the Chief Minister of
each State and the Governor of Punjab to obtain from all the Additional
Judges working in the High Court of the State their consent to be appointed
as permanent Judges in any other High Court in the country. An opportunity
was given to such Judges to name three preferences in which each of them
would like to be appointed as permanent Judge. A further request was that
whenever in future a proposal is made for initial appointment as a High
Court Judge it must be accompanied by the consent of the person so
recommended to be appointed to any other High Court in the country coupled
with the preference limited to three. It was made abundantly clear that
option to give preferences does not imply on the part of the Government a
commitment either to appoint the person concerned or to appoint him
necessarily at any one of the three preferences. A copy of the letter was
also sent to the Chief Justice of each High Court. Constitutional validity
of this circular is questioned in the petition filed by Shri Iqbal M.
Chagla and others. The submission is that with a view to circumventing the
ratio in the majority judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , this is a covert attempt at transferring Judges under coerced consent.
The web of the argument was woven around the alleged covert attempt by the
circular to transfer each Additional Judge to a High Court other than the
High Court in which he is functioning. The circular was read and re-read
before the Court. Having examined it with microscopic meticulousness I find
it impossible to read any overt or covert attempt at transferring Judges
from one High Court to other High Court by this circular. There is not even
a whisper of transfer in the circular. But in this connection our attention
was invited to the statement made by Law Minister in connection with
Calling Attention Motion on the impugned circular in Lok Sabha on April 16,
1981. In course of the discussion Law Minister appears to have stated that
if there is a complaint against an Additional Judge," it has to be examined
on merit and a decision taken. The decision could be either to drop a
person based on evidence or to see if he could be transferred". (Lok Sabha
Debates Fifth Series, Vol. XVI, No. 42, Column 271) At a later stage it
would be made abundantly clear that transfer power conferred by Article 222 cannot be exercised by the executive to punish a judge because of
complaints against him which may on enquiry be found to be of substance.
But that is another aspect. Circular is not devised as a weapon of mass
transfer outside the Constitution. But use of word 'transfer' in the
discussion cannot be read torn out of context. A little later at column 273
Law Minister states that Chief Justice of India inquired whether it was the
intention of the Government to transfer each and every Judge and this
showed that Chief Justice of India was labouring under a mistaken
impression that circular was devised for mass transfer but Law Minister
explained to him that it is not a case of transfer at all but it is a case
of fresh appointment and it is not the intention 'to appoint every
Additional Judge outside'. The later part of the statement has raised
another crop of controversy to be presently dealt with but there is no
whisper of transfer in the circular. As has been pointed out earlier, an
Additional Judge has a maximum tenure of two years. At the end of two years
he gets a fresh appointment either as a permanent Judge or an Additional
Judge for a further period of two years. The consent for fresh appointment
is a must. It is open to an Additional Judge whose tenure comes to an end
to decline the fresh appointment at least in the High Courts where
undertaking is not taken to accept permanent appointment, if offered. If he
is, therefore, to be appointed again, necessarily it can be done with his
consent. The consent to be obtained is of Additional Judge. Additional
Judge is now being told that it is possible that he may be appointed in
some other High Court, and that therefore, while giving consent for being
appointed for a fresh term or as permanent Judge he is informed that he may
be appointed in some other High Court and that he may give his consent with
the knowledge of it. The fresh appointment is not a transfer. In fact, in
the course of this judgment it will be succinctly thrashed out that a Judge
who is transferred cannot be said to be appointed afresh to the High Court
to which he is transferred. Once it is held that the circular was not a
covert way of transferring a Judge because transfer was not even on the
distant horizon, the whole edifice of argument built over the decision in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Shenth , tumbles down. To be
specific, a fresh appointment cannot be bracketed with a transfer more so
when the submission that transfer implies fresh appointment has been
rejected in the past and is being rejected by this judgment. Consent is
sought from an Additional Judge whose tenure is about to expire and to whom
a fresh tenure is to be offered. Ipso facto it will be a fresh appointment.
Initial tenure having come to a close, he is offered a fresh appointment,
in another High Court. It being a fresh appointment, it is being done with
his consent. In case of such a fresh appointment one cannot say that the
Additional Judge is transferred on the expiry of his first tenure, to
another High Court where he is appointed afresh with a fresh tenure. The
concept of transfer is foreign to the situation. Once the alleged noxious
feature of transfer being in the circular is taken out, there is nothing in
the circular which would be in contravention of any particular
constitutional provision. 775. It was also stated that the expression 'obtain' in the circular has
 the element of coercion and a consent ceases to be consent if it is
 obtained under coercion. It was said that consent and coercion go ill
 together because forced assent would not be consent in the eye of law. It
 was said that the threat implicit in the circular becomes evident because
 the Chief Minister, the strong arm of the executive is being asked to
 obtain consent. If every little thing is looked upon with suspicion and as
 an attack on the independence of judiciary, it becomes absolutely
 misleading. Law Minister, if he writes directly to the Chief Justice or
 the Judge concerned, propriety of the action may be open to question.
 Chandrachud, J. has warned in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
 Himatlal Shenth , that the executive cannot and ought not to establish rapport with
 Judges (SCR p. 456 CD : SCC p. 230, para 43). Taking this direction in its
 letter and spirit, the Law Minister wrote to the Chief Ministers. The
 Chief Minister in turn was bound to approach the Chief Justice. This is
 also known to be a proper communication channel with Judges of High Court.
 In this context the expression 'obtain' would only mean request the Judge
 to give consent if he so desires. If he gives the consent, well and good,
 and if does not give, no evil consequences are likely to ensure. I am not
 impressed by the submission of the learned Attorney-General that one who
 gives consent may have some advantage over the one who does not. I do not
 see any remote advantage and if any such advantage is given and if charge
 of victimisation is made out by the Judge not giving consent, the arm of
 judicial review is strong enough to rectify the executive error. 776. It was, however, said that what is not stated in the circular is more
objectionable and of devastating effect than what is stated. It was urged
that omission to mention in the circular that one who would not give
consent would not suffer any evil consequences or would not be placed at a
comparative disadvantage to one who gives consent, and this would precisely
convey a threat to the Judge either to give consent or suffer consequences
because the negative assurance is not offered. That is hardly the correct
way reading the circular. Let it be noted that no positive advantage was to
accrue to one who gives his consent. If any positive advantage was to be
given to one who gives consent and if it had been spelt out, there would
have been some force in this submission but mere omission to mention any
evil consequences flowing from not giving consent would not necessarily
imply that such would be the case. Similarly, the statement in the circular
that giving an opportunity to indicate preferences would not imply that the
Government would be bound to give the Additional Judge an appointment or he
would be at least given a station of his choice out of the three
preferences indicated by him would mean that while unilaterally obtaining
consent on one hand, there was no quid pro quo that the appointment would
be given. This is clearly reading the circular with coloured glasses and
the submission is unwarranted by the language used in it. If an option to
indicate preferences is given and option is exercised, undoubtedly that by
itself cannot obligate the Government to appoint an Additional Judge for a
fresh term or a new entrant either as Additional or a permanent Judge,
because various factors will have to be taken into consideration over and
above his consent and preferences in making the appointment. Consent is
asked for at a stage prior to the decision to appoint is taken. Therefore,
this caution was absolutely necessary and has been rightly stated that it
implies any promise to do a certain thing. It was then urged that if every
Additional Judge was not to be posted outside the State, the executive will
have an opportunity to pick and choose, favourites protected, disfavourites
pushed out and this would strike a heavy or a near fatal blow at the
independence of judiciary. Apprehension voiced is utterly unwarranted
because in every appointment of an Additional Judge as permanent Judge in
any High Court, the Chief Justice of India is to be consulted and his views
would always receive the weight they enjoy. Therefore once Chief Justice of
India gives his considered opinion with respect to every proposal, the
element of picking and choosing is effectively curbed or controlled. With
these observations, I broadly agree with the view taken by Bhagwati, J. in
his judgment that there is nothing in the circular which would render it
constitutionally invalid. 777. Turning now to the petition filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde in which Shri
S. N. Kumar has been joined as respondent 5 and who has participated in the
proceedings questioning the validity of the short-term extension granted to
him and his subsequent non-appointment. Shri Kumar was appointed an
Additional Judge of Delhi High Court for a period of two years by a
Presidential Notification dated March 6, 1979. His term was to expire on
March 6, 1981. The Chief Justice of Delhi High Court by his letter dated
February 19, 1981, addressed to the Law Minister, did not recommend an
extension for Shri Kumar. While stating that the pendency in the Court
still justified the appointment of Additional Judges, he considered it his
painful duty not to recommend Shri Kumar for three reasons : (i) that there
have been serious complaints against Shri Kumar both orally and in writing
and on examination he was of the opinion that the 'complaints were not
without basis'; (ii) responsible members of the Bar and some of his
colleagues whose names he was reluctant to mention have also complained
about Shri Kumar; (iii) that Shri Kumar has also not been very helpful in
disposing of cases. He said that he has no investigating machinery to
conclusively find out whether the complaints were genuine or not but all
the same the complaints have been persistent. A copy of this letter was
sent to Chief Justice of India. Response of the Chief Justice of India as
evident from his note dated March 3, 1981, and his letter dated March 14,
1981, was that he would like to look carefully into the charges against
Shri Kumar because in his view the letter of Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court dated February 19, 1981, "was too vague to accept that Shri Kumar
lacks integrity". Consistent with his desire to look carefully into the
charges and to gain time for the same he recommended that the term of Shri
O. N. Vohra, Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri S. B. Wad be extended for six
months. This is how the ball was set rolling for short-term extension. The
duration for which extension was to be given and the reasons for such
short-term extension are both contrary to the mandate of Article 224 as has
been pointed out earlier. As a matter of fact, taking cue from the
recommendation of the Chief Justice of India, the Law Minister improved
upon it by granting extension of three months which would expire on June 6,
1981. To continue with the chronology, by the letter dated March 19, 1981,
the Law Minister conveyed to the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court the
reaction of the Chief Justice of India to the observations made by the
Chief Justice for not recommending extension of Shri Kumar especially the
charge of vagueness and requested the Chief Justice to offer his comments
on the question of continuance or otherwise of Shri Kumar in the light of
the view expressed by the Chief Justice of India. On March 28, 1981, the
Chief Justice of Delhi High Court replied to the letter dated March 19,
1981, of the Law Minister. In this letter the Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court informed the Law Minister that he had since received a letter from
the Chief Justice of India asking him to furnish him with "details and
concrete facts in regard to the allegations against Justice Kumar" . This
has reference to the letter of Chief Justice of India dated March 14, 1981,
to Chief Justice of Delhi High Court. He proceeds further to state that " 778. In the meantime on April 22, 1981, a writ petition was filed by Shri
V. M. Tarkunde in the Delhi High Court questioning the validity of the
circular of the Law Minister dated March 18, 1981, and in this writ
petition, inter alia, relief was sought in the form of a direction to
convert 12 posts of Additional Judges in Delhi High Court into permanent
Judges and to appoint Shri N. N. Goswami, Shri Sultan Singh and Shri O. N.
Vohra as permanent Judges and to appoint Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri S. B.
Wad, Additional Judges of Delhi High Court for a full term of two years. By
an order made by this Court on May 1, 1981, this case stood transferred to
this Court. When the matter was pending before this Court an order was made
on May 8, 1981, directing the Union of India to decide not less than 10
days before June 6, 1981, whether any of the three Additional Judges which
included Shri S. N. Kumar should be appointed for a further term as
Additional Judge or they should be appointed as permanent Judges or
otherwise. 779. In the meantime on May 7, 1981, in response to the letter dated April
15, 1981, of the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court has
written a long letter and which has been the subject-matter of intensely
ferocious controversy both as to the significance of its contents,
propriety of the request contained in the letter not to show the same to
the Chief Justice of India and the violation of the constitutional mandate
of consultation as prescribed by Article 217 , in the letter not being shown
to the Chief Justice of India enabling him to offer his comments and taking
a decision not to appoint Shri Kumar. The letter dated May 7, 1981, is a
long epistle. At the top it is mentioned "Secret (for personal attention
only)". The Chief Justice of Delhi High Court refers to his meeting with
the Chief Justice of India on March 26, 1981, and then proceeds to state
that as is desired by him, he wrote his letter dated March 28, 1981, a copy
of which was forwarded to the Law Minister. The expression 'as desired by
him' has been a subject-matter of rival contentions. The learned Solicitor-
General urged that this statement clearly conveys that the Chief Justice of
India himself desired after discussion at the meeting on March 26, 1981,
that the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court should not refer to the details
of discussion and, therefore, wrote his letter dated March 28, 1981, to the
Law Minister in abstruse terms. The specific suggestion is that even in the
letter dated March 28, 1981, the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court did not
furnish details to the Law Minister as it was so desired by the Chief
Justice of India. Then he proceeds to state that somewhere early in May
1980, one of his colleagues met him and said that he was rather perturbed
about information with him to the effect that if a substantial amount was
paid to Shri Kumar, suits brought by a particular party against an
insurance company would be decided in favour of the party. The Chief
Justice states that he did not pay much attention to the earlier reports
bout when this was brought to his notice and he not being the Chief Justice
at that time, he thought that after summer vacation to save Shri Kumar from
any embarrassment, he should be put on a jurisdiction other than original
jurisdiction and accordingly when he became the Acting Chief Justice and
constituted the Benches for the second half of the 1980, Shri Kumar was
assigned to a Division Bench on the appellate side. The then proceeds to
state that even though Shri Kumar was assigned the work of the Division
Bench, he carried with him amount others, three suits Nos. 1409 of 1979,
1417 of 1978 and 1408 of 1979 filed by Jain Sudh Vanaspati Ltd. and Jain
Export Pvt. Ltd. against the New India Assurance Co. Ltd. He further states
that in August 1980 the same colleague talked to him and another colleague
joined saying that doubts were being expressed about the integrity of Shri
Kumar vis-a-vis the aforesaid cases and some others. As the Chief Justice
was an Acting Chief Justice, he did not want to take any precipitate action
but he, however, made discreet inquiries from some of the leading counsel
and they in strict confidence supported the allegations. This impelled the
Chief Justice to look into the allegations more carefully when it
transpired that it was not only the three suits mentioned hereinabove but
other Single Bench matters were also retained by Shri Kumar on his Board
despite being put in the Division Bench. He points out there was a long
list of such suits carried by Shri Kumar with him and that some of the
parties in the suits were rich and influential parties including some
former Princes. He proceeds to state that in January 1981, he looked into
the matter a little more deeply and made further inquiries and even though
some lawyers were non-committal, others however asserted with some force
that Shri Kumar's reputation was not above-board. This led to his
discussing the matter with some of his colleagues besides the two who had
earlier spoken to him, and they also said that unconfirmed reports have
been circulating in the Bar which were not very complimentary to Shri
Kumar. This made the Chief Justice to conclude that reputation for
integrity of Shri Kumar "was not what should be for a Judge of the High
Court". He then proceeds to refer to the complaint of Shri Sabir Hussain
against Shri Kumar in which he exonerates Shri Kumar. He deals with the
quantum of work disposed of by Shri Kumar, an aspect which is not relevant
for the present purpose. There is some reference to the conduct of Shri
Kumar in his work as a Judge in the Court. He concludes the letter by
saying that he has already expressed his view that Shri Kumar should not be
continued but it is for the Government to decide whether it would like Shri
Kumar to continue as a Judge of the Delhi High Court. Undoubtedly, this
letter has not been brought to the notice of the Chief Justice of India. 780. Thereafter the Law Minister wrote to the Chief Justice of India on May
21, 1981, enquiring from him whether he had completed his inquiry in regard
to the complaints regarding Shri Kumar's integrity and general conduct
which the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court had discussed with him as
mentioned by him in his letter dated March 28, 1981. He requested the Chief
Justice of India to forward the advice in regard to the continuance or
otherwise of Shri Kumar and Shri S. B. Wad. To this letter the Chief
Justice of India replied by his letter dated May 22, 1981, in which after
referring to the three points made by the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court
in his first letter dated February 19, 1981, for not recommending
continuance of Shri S. N. Kumar, he proceeded to state that the Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court met him on March 26, 1981, and amongst others,
he stated that he doubted the integrity of Shri Kumar because even though
his assignment was changed he still continued to hear part-heard cases on
the original side. The Chief Justice of India then proceeds to state that
he has made the most careful and extensive enquiries in regard to both
these matters and he was satisfied that there was no substance in anyone of
them. He proceeded to state that he made enquiries not only from the
members of the Bar but from the sitting Judges of the Delhi High Court
which showed that it is a common practice in the Delhi High Court that even
after the allocation of a Judge is changed from the original side to the
appellate side and vice versa, he continues to take up part-heard cases on
which a substantial amount of time has been already spent. In his view,
therefore, Shri Kumar did nothing out of the way or unusual in taking up
part-heard cases after the allocation of his work was changed. He
specifically disagreed with the view of the Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court for non-continuance of Shri Kumar and further proceeded to assert
that not one member of the Bar or of the Bench doubted the integrity of
Shri Kumar, and on the other hand several of them stated that he is a man
of unquestionable integrity. He concluded the letter by saying that Shri
Kumar's term should be extended by a further period of three months. I have
not been able to appreciate the last line of this letter as to why a
further three months' extension is recommended. If Shri Kumar's integrity
in the opinion of the Chief Justice of India was beyond reproach, the fact
whether he was slow in the disposal of work or other minor considerations
should not have come in the way of the Chief Justice of India recommending
a full-term extension. It appears, however, that this three months'
extension was recommended because some reports of the intelligence branch
in respect of Shri Kumar were also forwarded to the Chief Justice of India
and probably the Chief Justice of India was to respond to the same. That
the Chief Justice of India did by his letter dated May 29, 1981, and after
having expressed his opinion with regard to the details of the report - not
disclosed to the Court - the Chief Justice of India recommended a full-term
extension for Shri Kumar. 781. The sole contention raised by Shri R. K. Garg in this behalf is that
the consultation envisaged by Article 224 read with Article 217(1) must be
full and meaningful and if that is the criterion, failure of the Law
Minister, maybe on the request of Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, to
disclose the letter dated May 7, 1981, of the Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court or its contents to the Chief Justice of India would unmistakably show
that the process of consultation was not complete and, therefore, the
consequent decision not to appoint Shri Kumar by not giving him any
extension beyond June 6, 1981, is violative of the constitutional mandate
and, therefore, invalid. Keeping aside for the time being the propriety of
the request made by the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court that his letter
dated May 7, 1981, should not be shown to the Chief Justice of India, what
is required to be determined is whether the contents of the letter and more
particularly the reasons and materials which prompted the Chief Justice of
Delhi High Court to come to the conclusion that the reputation for
integrity of Shri Kumar was not what should be for a Judge of the High
Court, were brought to the notice of the Chief Justice of India at any
point of time and whether he had a chance to think and deliberate over it.
And if the answer is in the affirmative, mere failure to show the letter
dated May 7, 1981, would not invalidate the decision, Without going into
the further details in this behalf, it clearly transpires that at the
meeting between the Chief Justice of India and the Chief Justice of Delhi
High Court on March 26, 1981, there was a specific discussion of all the
three points, including one of lack of integrity of Shri Kumar. Once the
question about the integrity of Shri Kumar came up for discussion between
these two high constitutional functionaries with a specific reference to
the view of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court not to recommend Shri
Kumar for further continuance, the conclusion is inescapable that all
aspects bearing upon the integrity of Shri Kumar must have been discussed
between the two high constitutional functionaries. That is why the Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court says in his letter dated March 28, 1981, that
he had discussed the entire matter in detail with the Chief Justice of
India. This is further borne out by what the Chief Justice of India writes
in his letter dated May 22, 1981, that at the meeting between them on March
26, 1981, the reasons which prompted the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court
not to recommend continuance of Shri Kumar were discussed and this
discussion included the complaint of Chief Justice of Delhi High Court
about Shri Kumar's integrity. There is a specific reference to Shri Kumar
keeping to himself the part-heard cases after his assignment was changed,
in the letter of the Chief Justice of India. This clearly indicates that
there was threadbare discussion on this point and the discussion would
include the material which the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court had and
which he would necessarily refer to, to justify the view taken by him.
There is another internal evidence to bear out this conclusion. Shri Kumar
himself filed an affidavit on July 17, 1981, much before the hearing
commenced in this case and much before disclosure of the relevant
correspondence was ordered by this Court. In this affidavit he clearly
refers to his retaining some of the part-heard cases after his assignment
was changed and this list includes the three suits referred to in the
letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court dated May 7, 1981. What has
prompted this explanation about the aforementioned three suits by Shri
Kumar much before the disclosure was directed and he had a chance to look
into the correspondence would be self-evident. The only permissible
inference is that in his meeting with the Chief Justice of India which he
refers to in para 18 of his affidavit he must have been informed by the
Chief Justice of India that with reference to his handling of the
aforementioned three suits and his tugging on to it after his assignment
was changed gave rise to the belief that it was being done with some
ulterior motives and the Chief Justice of India could have only gathered
this information from the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court at their
meeting on March 26, 1981. This is further internal evidence to buttress
the conclusion that everything including all details set out in the letter
dated May 7, 1981, concerning Shri Kumar's integrity was the subject-matter
of discussion between the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and Chief
Justice of India at their meeting on March 26, 1981. If that be so, the
conclusion is inescapable that the consultation is complete. Consultation
need not take any particular form. The essence of consultation is
deliberation. And if the two high constitutional functionaries met for the
avowed object of discussing continuance of Shri Kumar with specific
reference to the doubt about his integrity, it would be reasonable to hold
that all aspects were considered, gone into and thrashed out. In this view
of the matter non-showing of the letter dated May 7, 1981, to Chief Justice
of India would not detract from the fullness of consultation as required by Article 217. For these reasons and some more discussed by Bhagwati, J. with
whom I agree, it must be held that there was full and effective
consultation on all relevant points including those set out in the letter
dated May 7, 1981, and the submission must accordingly be rejected. 782. Before I conclude, I would like to record my disapproval of the
request made by the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court to the Law Minister
for not showing the letter dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of
India. If independence of judiciary is likely to be threatened, it may or
may not emanate from the executive or from some outside agency but it would
be corroded by the action of the members of the judiciary itself, by
internal corrosion, and if proof for this were needed, it is
demonstratively supplied by a very improper request made by the Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court to the Law Minister not to show the letter
dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of India. I am unable to conceive a
situation where in the correspondence, assertions, statements, expression
of doubts concerning a high judicial functionary like a Judge of the High
Court can be made by the Chief Justice of a High Court which he is not
willing to show to the Chief Justice of India. I am not implying any
hierarchy. I put them on par and accord status and dignity to the high
offices occupied by both. They may differ. Healthy difference is the life-
blood of honest opinion. But it is unthinkable albeit wholly improper for a
Cheif Justice of High Court to write to the law Minister something which he
is not prepared to show to the Chief Justice of India. This conduct, if
allowed to pass uncensured, would give rise to such fissiparous tendencies
which would wholly undermine the independence of judiciary. 783. I also feel that the way in which the Chief Justice of Delhi High
Court has dealt with the case of Shri O. N. Vohra leaves much to be
desired. The Chief Justice of Delhi High Court seems to be completely
unaware of his duty and obligation while recommending or refusing to
recommend a colleague for extension. He holds no position superior to a
High Court Judge functioning in his Court. He is only first amongst equals
enjoying the status not on merits but on accident of seniority. He is not
supposed to sit in judgment over the decisions of his colleagues. Where
does he get this authority passes comprehension. Mr. O. N. Vohra took a
dignified stand and did not participate in this squabble, undignified as
the whole episode appears to be. Had he come and participated, may be the
Chief Justice of Delhi High Court would have found his position so
untenable that there would have emanated a strong censure about the method
and manner of his dealing with his colleagues. These may appear to be
strong words but they still fail to express my feelings adequately. I say
no more. 784. There was one more submission which may be noticed in passing and I
refer to it only for future purpose. If a Chief Justice of a High Court
gets information reflecting upon the character and integrity of a colleague
or complaints about his behaviour in the Court, fair play in action demands
that before relying upon it and taking a step of far-reaching consequence
concerning the career and dignity of the colleague, he should in confidence
talk to the colleague. In these days when relations between the Bench and
the Bar have sunk abysmally low, that rumours, canards, character
assassination flourish in the grape-vine, if credence is to be given to
such rumours because about integrity usually foolproof facts are not
available, but reputation for integrity being relevant, apart from any
principle of natural justice which does not surface in this discussion,
fair play in action demands that they should first be brought to the notice
of the colleague not for his explanation but even for future rectitude. If
the whole thing stops the decisive action can be deferred. If it continues
to flourish, the Chief Justice of a High Court in discharge of his
constitutional duty of recommending or not recommending continuance of an
Additional Judge may proceed to act as he considers befitting the high
dignity of the office he holds; but to make assertion in secret and
confidential letters without giving the slightest inclination to the
colleague and then to shrink back to the extent of not permitting the same
to be shown to the pater-familias in the judiciary scales the height of
impropriety. Let the past be buried and bygones be bygones but in future, a
conduct and approach commensurate with the high office held by the Chief
Justice of High Court must inform his action. Fair play in action is the
watchword of judiciary and if it is extended to all others, a colleague in
the High Court should not be at a comparative disadvantage. 785. I would, therefore, like to recall what happened in the course of
hearing of these matters. At one stage the Bench unanimously suggested to
the learned Attorney-General that even accepting his contention that the
consultation was full and meaningful and there was no defect or deficiency
in it, a person who has worked as a Judge of a High Court for two years and
three months should not be made to leave the institution with a wrench that
a raw deal has been done to him and, therefore, Government of India may
show the letter dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of India, request
him to give his comments on the same and after considering the same in the
light of the comments of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court may mould
the final decision concerning Shri Kumar. The learned Attorney-General
replied that the Government of India has no objection to showing the letter
dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of India. That is poor solace
because the letter since disclosure had become public property, the media
having published the same. But the learned Attorney-General informed us
that the Government of India was not prepared to reconsider the decision.
Apart from the judiciary and the public, Government of India must be
equally sensitive and considerate about maintaining both the dignity and
independence of judiciary. It would add to the stature of the Government of
India and reject unsubstantiated criticism that unwarranted attacks are
made on the judiciary by the executive if the letter dated May 7, 1981 is
shown to the Chief Justice of India and his comments are invited and then a
decision is taken whether or not to reappoint Shri Kumar as an Additional
Judge. 786. While holding that there was full, effective and meaningful
consultation, and on this account the petition in this group are liable to
be dismissed, I suggest that the Government of India may show the letter
dated May 7, 1981, to the Chief Justice of India, request him to give
comments and after receiving the comments, decide whether Shri Kumar should
or should not be appointed as an Additional Judge of Delhi High Court. This
is not a direction but merely a suggestion for the acceptance of the
Government if thought fit. 787. In the second group of cases the first is a Writ Petition No. 274 of
1981 filed by an Advocate practising in the Supreme Court, Miss Lily
Thomas, impleading therein the Union of India represented by the Secretary,
Ministry of Law as the sole respondent and in which the only prayer in the
last paragraph is that this Court may be pleased to give true
interpretation of Article 222 of the Constitution of India. In the body of
the petition it was averred that President of India in exercise of the
power conferred by Article 222(1) of the Constitution has made an order
transferring Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, the then Chief Justice of the Madras
High Court as Chief Justice, Kerala High Court. The question posed was
whether the power to transfer a Judge of a High Court conferred on the
President under Article 222 can be used to defeat the right of puisne
Judges of the High Court to be considered for the post of Chief Justice of
the High Court wherein a vacancy may have occurred. It was averred that on
the elevation of Mr. V. Balakrishna Eradi, the then Chief Justice of Kerala
High Court to the Bench of the Supreme Court of India, the office of Chief
Justice, Kerala High Court has been rendered vacant and other
considerations being equal, the next seniormost puisne Judge who should
legitimately occupy the same office is Mr. Justice Subramania Poti or any
other Judge of the Kerala High Court. It was contended that the expression
'Judge' in Article 222 does not comprehend Chief Justice and, therefore,
the transfer of Chief Justice M. M. Ismail as Chief Justice of Kerala High
Court is ex facie illegal. It was also contended that this power to
transfer was to be exercised in public interest and the power has not been
conferred for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to
punish a Judge who does not toe its line and that exercise of such power
would be subversive of the independence of judiciary. An application for
adding parties was made in which nine other persons were sought to be
impleaded as respondents, one of them being Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of Patna High Court who was under an order of transfer as Chief
Justice, Madras High Court. There was also a prayer for urging additional
grounds and the whole of the prayer clause was amended and by the amended
clause a declaration was sought that Article 222 of the Constitution is
illegal and unconstitutional. A further declaration was sought that the
transfer of Chief Justice M. M. Ismail and Chief Justice K. B. N. Singh as
Chief Justice of Kerala and Madras respectively being not in public
interest and also because Article 222 does not confer any power to transfer
a Chief Justice, is unconstitutional. By an order made by this Court on
February 4, 1981, from amongst those sought to be arrayed as respondents,
the prayer to join Mr. M. M. Ismail and Mr. K. B. N. Singh alone was
granted and in respect of others the application was rejected. Rule was
issued after recording a statement that the petitioner will not press
ground No. 5 challenging the constitutional validity of Article 222 of the
Constitution. 788. One Shri D. N. Pandey, Advocate, filed C.W.J.C. No. 2224 of 1981 in
the High Court of Patna impleading the Union of India, Chief Justice of
India, Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of Patna High Court, Registrar of
Patna High Court as respondents, praying for an appropriate writ or order
directing the respondents to forbear from giving effect to the order of the
President dated January 19, 1981, transferring Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of Patna High Court as Chief Justice, Madras High Court with effect
from the date he assumed charge of his office. By an order made by a Bench
of the Patna High Court, Shri Thakur Rampati Sinha, President, Bihar State
Socialist Lawyers Association, was permitted to be added as petitioner 2.
Various contentions have been raised in this petition and they will be
dealt with at the appropriate place. By an order made by this Court the
petition stood transferred to this Court and numbered as Transferred Case
No. 24 of 1981. After the petition was transferred to this Court, Shri K.
B. N. Singh applied for transposing him from the array of respondents as
petitioner and the same having been granted, Shri K. B. N. Singh is now
petitioner 3, in this case and he is represented by counsel Dr. L. M.
Singhvi. In this petition Shri K. B. N. Singh has filed a short affidavit
on September 7, 1981, followed by a detailed affidavit on September 16,
1981. Shri K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary, Department of Justice, Ministry
of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, filed the counter-affidavit on
September 24, 1981. Shri K. B. N. Singh filed a rejoinder-affidavit on
September 28, 1981. The Chief Justice of India filed his counter-affidavit
on September 29, 1981, to which a rejoinder-affidavit was filed by Shri K.
B. N. Singh on October 16, 1981. A rejoinder-affidavit was also filed by
Thakur Rampati Sinha on behalf of petitioners 1 and 2 on October 16, 1981. 789. One P. Subramaniam filed Writ Petition No. 553 of 1981 in the Madras
High Court challenging the constitutional validity of notification dated
January 19, 1981, by which Shri M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice, Madras High
Court was transferred as Chief Justice, Kerala High Court. In this petition
Union of India represented by the Secretary, Ministry of Law, Justice and
Company Affairs was impleaded as the sole respondent. Union of India moved
this Court under Article 139-A(1) requesting the Court to withdraw to
itself the aforementioned writ petition pending in the Madras High Court on
the ground that petitions raising identical questions have already been
transferred to this Court. This Court having granted the request, the writ
petition stood transferred to this Court and numbered as Transferred Case
No. 6 of 1981. 790. One A. Rajappa, an Advocate of Madras, filed Writ Petition No. 390 of
1981 in the Madras High Court questioning the constitutional validity of
the notification transferring Chief Justice Ismail to Kerala High Court,
inter alia, contending that Article 222 does not comprehend power to
transfer a Chief Justice. In this petition he impleaded the Union of India,
Registrar of the Madras High Court, Registrar of the Kerala High Court and
Registrar of the Patna High Court as respondents. An application to
transfer this petition to this Court under Article 139-A was moved. This
Court accepted the transfer application by its order dated February 3,
1981, and accordingly the case stood transferred to this Court and numbered
as Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981. 791. One Ripudaman Prasad Sinha had filed C.W.J.C. No. 312 of 1981 in the
Patna High Court for a writ of quo warranto seeking information as to how
after the notification dated January 19, 1981, transferring Shri K. B. N.
Singh, Chief Justice, Patna High Court as Chief Justice, Madras High Court,
he continued to occupy the office of Chief Justice, Patna High Court. This
petition came up for admission before a Bench of the Patna High Court. At
the oral hearing a question was posed to the petitioner why he had not
produced the Presidential notification and on this short ground the writ
petition was rejected. An oral prayer for a certificate to appeal to the
Supreme Court was also rejected. Hence he filed Special Leave Petition
(Civil) No. 1509 of 1981. He has impleaded Shri K. B. N. Singh, Union of
India and the Chief Justice of India as respondents. 792. Mr. K. C. Kankan filed his counter-affidavit in Transferred Case No.
24 of 1981, inter alia, contending that the fact that the mother of Shri K.
B. N. Singh is aged about 85 years and is ailing and bedridden for last two
years was present to the mind of the Chief Justice of India. The Chief
Justice of India can certainly be presumed to have knowledge not only about
this fact but the other fact that Tamil language is freely used in Tamil
Nadu and Shri K. B. N. Singh is not conversant with it. It is stated that
Shri K. B. N. Singh had an effective opportunity to represent his case
before the Chief Justice of India. Then it is further averred that Chief
Justice of India had visited Patna as mentioned by Shri K. B. N. Singh
himself. It is further stated that the Chief Justice of India while making
recommendations for transfers pointed out that he had met several lawyers
and Judges of the concerned High Courts and expressed the view that on the
basis of data which he collected and which he had considered with greatest
objectivity, Shri K. B. N. Singh should be transferred. It is not disputed
that for misbehaviour as adumbrated in Article 124 , transfer is not the
remedy and that transfer can only be ordered in public interest without
regard to any complaint of misbehaviour. Denying the averment of Shri K. B.
N. Singh that transfer was based on considerations which are not genuine
and germane, it was stated that Shri Singh has given no basis for his
averment that the transfer order is likely to have been made because either
the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India or the President of India or both of
them have been misled by interested parties. It was asserted that
considerations relevant to transfer were taken into account by the Chief
Justice of India as also by the President of India. The request of Shri K.
B. N. Singh for disclosure of documents bearing upon his transfer was
resisted by Shri T. N. Chaturvedi, Secretary, Department of Justice,
Ministry of Law, Justice and company Affairs, claiming privilege against
disclosure of documents. 793. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 arising from the writ petition filed
by Shri D. N. Pandey in which Mr. K. B. N. Singh at his request was
transposed as petitioner 3, was heard as the main case and other
petitioners and their learned counsel were permitted to intervene at the
hearing of this case. 794. Dr. L. M. Singhvi who led, ably supported by Shri H. M. Seervai and
Shri Soli Sorabjee, put in the forefront the contention that the power to
transfer a Judge of the High Court is an extraordinary power vested in the
President, the highest executive in the country, which has to be exercised
according to the advice of the council of ministers, if not properly
controlled and adequate safeguards provided, would render independence of
judiciary a myth. Keeping aside, therefore, the facts of the case, it would
be advantageous at this stage to find out the purpose for which such power
is conferred on the President under Article 222 , the circumstances in which
the power can be exercised highlighting the constraint or limitations on
the exercise of power which would be safeguards against arbitrary exercise
of power. 795. To repeat, on the question of construction of Article 222 we are not
breaking a fresh ground. It was the subject-matter of a very intelligent
and enlightened debate in the Gujarat High Court wherein Mr. S. H. Sheth, a
Judge of the Gujarat High Court challenged his transfer to Andhra Pradesh
High Court. This debate continued unabated in the appeal against the
decision of a special Bench of the Gujarat High Court to this Court.
Barring some additional submissions the arguments covered the familiar
ground. I say familiar because I had the privilege of hearing arguments at
the time of admission of the Special Civil Application filed by Mr. S. H.
Sheth in the Gujarat High Court and also when the petition was finally
heard. The appeal against the decision of the Gujarat High Court quashing
the order of transfer of Mr. S. H. Sheth and issuing a mandamus to the
Union of India directing it to forbear from giving effect to the transfer
order was heard by a Constitution Bench of this Court presided over by Shri
Y. V. Chandrachud, who, as the quirk of fate shows, in his capacity as
Chief Justice now is one of the respondents in this group of cases. As we
are to a considerable extent on a familiar ground, in order to avoid mere
repeat performance, it would be conducive to proper adjudication of issues
raised, to recall what has been the view of the Constitution Bench of this
Court in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . After briefly
referring to the position thus established, I would refer to additional
contentions and also a fervent appeal for accepting the minority view in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth because very persuasively
it was argued that this larger Bench must re-examine the issue in its
entirety. The emotional appeal was founded on the submission that since the
decision in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , disturbing trends
have appeared in the Indian polity and even though once thwarted, a claim
to naked and arbitrary exercise of power for transfer having been made on
behalf of the Union of India and it being further shown that the safeguard
which appealed to the majority view in Sheth case ( Union of India v.
Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , having been found to be of slender strength, the Court
should further insulate the judiciary from continuing threats emanating
from powerful executive quarters.796. In constitutional interpretation
while value system may have a fair sprinkling, emotions, sentiments,
unfounded suspicions, wild apprehensions and imaginary threats have no
place. Equally, a possible chance of abuse of power would not permit denial
of power if it is conferred. We will have to be all the more circumspect,
imbued with wisdom and restraints because let it not be said by the
posterity that the Judges interpreting the judiciary provisions in the
Constitution have rewritten the Constitution for their own total and
absolute insulation from any quarter so that an otherwise irremovable
elitist institution may become so entrenched as to be impervious to the
realities of the situation. We wish to steer clear of what Professor
Friedmann stated, between the Scylla of subservience to Government and the
Charybdis of remoteness from constantly changing social pressures and
economic needs (see Law in a Changing Society by W. Friedmann). 797. Let us then first recapitulate what has been the majority view in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth ,. 798. Mr. S. H. Sheth, a Judge of the Gujarat High Court was transferred as
per the Presidential notification dated May 7, 1976 as Judge of the High
Court of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Sheth challenged the order of transfer in a
petition that he filed in Gujarat High Court on June 16, 1976, in which he
impleaded Union of India and the then Chief Justice of India as
respondents. This petition was heard by a special Bench of Gujarat High
Court which by a unanimous order dated November 4, 1976, voided the order
of transfer. An appeal by certificate was preferred by the Union of India
to this Court which was heard by a Constitution Bench of this Court.799.
Let me recapitulate the contentions canvassed on behalf of Mr. S. H. Sheth
in his petition questioning the validity of the order made under Article
222(1) by which he was transferred from the office of the Judge of the High
Court of Gujarat to the office of the Judge of High Court of Andhra
Pradesh. The constitutional validity of the order of transfer was
challenged on the following grounds : (SCC p. 210, para 2) (i) The order was passed without his consent : such consent must be
necessarily implied in Article 222(1) of the Constitution and therefor the
transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another High Court without his
consent is unconstitutional; (ii) The order was passed in breach of the assurance given on behalf of the
Government of India by the then Law Minister Shri A. K. Sen who, while
moving the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 said in the Lok
Sabha that" so far as High Court Judges are concerned, they should not be
transferred except by consent. "Mr. Sheth having accepted judgeship of the
Gujarat High Court on April 23, 1969 on the faith of the Law Minister's
assurance, the Government of India was bound by that assurance on the
doctrine of promissory estoppel; (iii) The order of transfer militated against public interest. The power
conferred by Article 222(1) was conditioned by the exigencies and
requirements of public interest, and since his transfer was not shown to
have been made in public interest it was ultra vires; and (iv) The order was passed without effective consultation with the Chief
Justice of India.'Consultation' in Article 222(1) means 'effective
consultation' and since the pre-condition of Article 222(1) that no
transfer can be made without such consultation was not fulfilled, the order
was bad and of no effect.Though the full Bench of the Gujarat High Court by
an unanimous order struck down the order of transfer they arrived at this
conclusion by different processes of reasoning. One Judge took the view
that in not consulting or informing Mr. Sheth of even the proposal of
transfer, it being an administrative executive action in violation of the
principles of natural justice and hence the order was bad. The second Judge
took the view that the order was unconstitutional because it was passed
without Mr. Sheth's consent and secondly because it was passed for a
collateral purpose. The third Judge took the view that the mass transfers
of 16 Judges which were effected with one stroke though each Judge may have
had peculiar personal difficulties to contend with and considering that the
Union of India had failed to disclose the nature and content of the
consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the consultation was not
meaningful and that the pre-condition for exercise of power in Article
222(1) was not satisfied and, therefore, the order was void. All the three
Judges unanimously rejected the challenge to the order of transfer on the
ground of promissory estoppel. 800. In the appeal preferred by the Union of India only two contentions
were examined by the Constitution Bench of this Court. They were : (i) the
independence of judiciary being the basic and fundamental feature of the
Constitution, power of non-consensual transfer to be exercised by the
executive, a litigant before the Judge in large number of cases, would be
subversive of the independence of judiciary and, therefore, the Court must
read in Article 222(1) that the power to transfer can only be exercised
with consent of the Judge proposed to be transferred; and (ii) that the
power to transfer High Court Judge having been conferred on the President
it an only be exercised in public interest and that before exercise of such
power there must be full, effective and meaningful consultation between the
President and the Chief Justice of India. Under the second submission, the
scope and content of the consultation necessary to satisfy the stringent
requirements of Article 222 have been fully thrashed out.801. The leading
judgment of majority view by Chandrachud, J. after referring to various
articles of the Constitution held that the provisions set out in the
judgment indisputably are aimed at insulating the High Court judiciary and
even officers and servants of the Court from the influence of the
executive. The observation of Krishna Iyer, J. in Samsher Singh case
(Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab, that fearless justice is a prominent creed of our
Constitution and the independence of judiciary is the fighting faith of our
founding document, was affirmed. It was also held that power to transfer
the High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public interest
and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish
a Judge who does not toe its line or who for some reason or other has
fallen from its grace. Thirdly, it was held that the two-fold limitation on
the power of the President to transfer a High Court Judge, namely, that it
can be exercised in public interest and that it can only be exercised after
full, effective and meaningful consultation with the Chief Justice of India
would provide sufficient safeguards against arbitrary exercise of power and
accordingly the contention that in order to insulate the judiciary from
executive interference the Court should read into Article 222 the words
'with his consent' was rejected. What constitutes meaningful, effective,
full and substantial consultation has been succinctly set out in a
paragraph at SCR page 453 SCC(p) 227, para 37) which has been extracted
hereinbefore. Briefly to recapitulate in the present context," President
must make the relevant data available to the Chief Justice of India on the
basis of which he can offer to the President the benefit of his considered
opinion. If the facts necessary to arrive at a proper conclusion are not
made available to the Chief Justice of India, he must ask for them because
in casting on the President the obligation to consult the Chief Justice of
India, the Constitution at the same time must be taken to have imposed a
duty on the Chief Justice of India to express his opinion on nothing less
than a full consideration of the matter on which he is entitled to be
consulted. The fulfilment by the President of his constitutional obligation
to place full facts before the Chief Justice of India and the performance
by the latter of the duty to elicit facts which are necessary to arrive at
a proper conclusion are parts of the same process and are complementary to
each other. The faithful observance of these may well earn a handsome
dividend useful to the administration of justice. "Consultation within the
meaning of Article 222(1) , therefore, means full and effective, not formal
or unproductive consultation. Concluding on this point, it was observed as
under : (SCC pp. 229-30, para 43) Article 222(1) postulates fair play and
contains built-in safeguards in the interests of reasonableness. In the
first place, the power to transfer a High Court Judge can be exercised in
public interest only. Secondly, the President is under an obligation to
consult the Chief Justice of India which means and requires that all the
relevant facts must be placed before the Chief Justice. Thirdly, the Chief
Justice owes a corresponding duty, both to the President and to the Judge
who is proposed to be transferred, that he shall consider every relevant
fact before he tenders his opinion to the President. In the discharge of
this constitutional obligation, the Chief Justice would be within his
rights, and indeed it is his duty whenever necessary, to elicit and
ascertain further facts either directly from the Judge concerned or from
other reliable sources. The executive cannot and ought not to establish
rapport with the Judges which is the function and privilege of the Chief
Justice. In substance and effect, therefore, the Judge concerned cannot
have reason to complain of arbitrariness or unfair play, if the due
procedure is followed. (SCR p. 456) 802. Krishna Iyer, J. speaking for himself and S. Murtaza Fazal Ali, J.,
while concurring with this view, observed that the President must
communicate to the Chief Justice all the material he has and the course he
proposes. The Chief Justice in turn must collect necessary information
through responsible channels or directly, acquaint himself with the
requisite data, deliberate on the information he possesses and proceed in
the interests of the administration of justice to give the President such
counsel of action as he thinks will further the public interest, especially
the cause of the justice system (SCR p. 496 : SCC pp. 267-68). At another
place it was observed as under : (SCC pp. 273-74, para 115)Before giving
his opinion the Chief Justice of India would naturally take into
consideration all relevant factors and may informally ascertain from the
Judge concerned if he has any real personal difficulty or any humanitarian
ground on which his transfer may not be directed. Such grounds may be of a
wide range including his health or extreme family factors. It is not
necessary for the Chief Justice to issue formal notice to the judge
concerned but it is sufficient - although it is not obligatory - if he
ascertains these facts either from the Chief Justice of the High Court or
from his own colleagues or through any other means which the Chief Justice
thinks safe, fair and reasonable. Where a proposal of transfer of a Judge
is made the Government must forward every possible material to the Chief
Justice so that he is in a position to give an effective opinion. Secondly,
although the opinion of the Chief Justice of India may not be binding on
the Government it is entitled to great weight and is normally to be
accepted by the Government because the power under Article 222 cannot be
exercised whimsically or arbitrarily. (SCR pp. 501-502) 803. The majority view is that it is not possible to read words 'with his
consent' in Article 222 and non-reading of these words would not jeopardise
independence of judiciary otherwise guaranteed by the Constitution. It was
held that a non-consensual transfer is within the purview of Article 222. 804. On the question of policy transfers which loomed large in the present
case, Chandrachud, J. observed that" whether it is necessary to transfer
Judges from one High Court to another in the interests of national
integration is a moot point. But that is a policy matter with which Courts
are not concerned directly "(see SCR p. 450 : SCC pp. 223-24, para 31). At
another place he held that" policy transfers on a wholesale basis which
leave no scope for considering the facts of each particular case and which
are influenced by one-sided governmental considerations are outside the
contemplation of our Constitution "(SCR p. 454 : SCC p. 227, para 38).
Krishna Iyer, J. in this context expressed himself in a forceful way when
he said that" to promote the community's concern for impeccable litigative
justice, policy-oriented transfer of Judges after compliance with
constitutionally spelt-out protocols may not be ruled out "(see SCR p. 501
: SCC p. 264, para 93). Untwalia, J. after attempting to spell out specific
public interest to subserve which a transfer of a High Court Judge can be
ordered, ultimately concluded that" these are matters of policy decision
entirely within the realm of the governmental power "(SCR p. 507 : SCC p.
279, para 127). The minority view of Bhagwati, J. and Untwalia, J. held
that non-consensual transfer is ourside the purview of Article 222 but both
of them reached the conclusion by a different process of reasoning.
Bhagwati J. held that having examined various provisions of the
Constitution unerringly pointing towards assuring independence of judiciary
from executive pressure, to further fortify and insulate it, the Court
should give to the expression 'transfer' in Article 222 a limited meaning
that it only comprehends consensual transfer and compulsive transfer is not
within the purview of the article. Untwalia, J. held that" there may be
necessity and justification on the ground of public interest or policy for
the transfer of Judges from one High Court to another, although it may be
few and far between or even punitive in character, but to do so without the
consent of the Judge concerned will bring about devastating results and
cause damage to the tower of judiciary and erosion in its independence
"(SCC p. 285, para 137). He was, therefore, of the view that an additional
safeguard is necessary to insulate the judiciary and he found that
safeguard by holding that a Judge cannot be transferred under Article 222 without his consent. Bhagwati, J. agreed with Krishna Iyer, J. on the scope
and content of consultation and Untwalia, J. agreed with Chandrachud, J. on
the scope and content of consultation under Article 222. Scope and ambit of
consultation under Article 222(1) has been dealt with in the earlier part
of this judgment and it is unnecessary to repeat it here.805. The
obligation to consult may arise in different contexts and in different
circumstances and situations and for different purposes. Duty or obligation
to consult inheres full, effective and meaningful consultation. The
situation and context and purpose of consultation would define parameters
of consultation. Within the parameters all relevant considerations on which
consultation to be effective must be focussed, must be precisely laid down.
It was admitted on all hands that transfer is likely to cause hardship and
inflict injury both private and to some extent public. In Samsher Singh
case it is in terms stated that sometimes transfer is more harmful than
positive punishment. Before the Judge is made to suffer hardship or he is
required to suffer injury, certain relevant questions have to be examined
and answered so that even a remote chance of transfer by way of punishment
may be scrupulously avoided and a firm decision is reached that it is for
achieving an avowed public interest. In the context of transfer of a Judge
from one High Court to another High Court, the questions which must engage
the attention of the concerned authorities may be briefly enumerated. They
are : (i) why this particular Judge is selected for transfer; (ii) what
would be the personal difficulties faced by him in the event transfer is
ordered, such as whether his wife is gainfully employed, whether his
children are taking education or are gainfully employed, whether the old
parents dependent on him would be seriously inconvenienced, whether he is
being pushed out from a station which is considered good to a station not
so good, whether it is likely to attach any stigma, whether he would have
to maintain two establishments; and finally (iii) whether the public
interest for which he is required to be transferred would far outweigh his
inconveniences, difficulties and even a possible stigma. Selective
transfers generally give rise to canards because ordinarily High Court
Judges are not transferred and as late as 1963 the then Law Minister Mr. A.
K. Sen assured the Parliament that a High Court Judge should not be
transferred except by consent and this policy is departed from. Once one or
the other Judge is specifically selected for transfer, even if it is
proclaimed to be in public interest, such as a senior, experienced and
competent Judge is required for other High Court, this hardly satisfies
anyone and the Judge really suffers character assassination. It is,
therefore, absolutely necessary that all these aspects and many more that
can be enumerated, must be specifically and individually examined,
discussed, deliberated upon and finally a decision must be reached that the
public interest for which transfer is proposed would be served by the
transfer. Specific public interest must not be left to guesswork but must
be precisely stated and must be such that it would far outweigh the
personal difficulties, inconvenience and the possible stigma.806. Principal
contention canvassed in the High Court and in this Court in Sheth case
( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , was that non-consensual transfer is
outside the purview of Article 222. This contention would have stood
concluded by the majority decision of the Constitution Bench but as the
matter is before a larger Bench. Mr. Seervai made a valiant effort to
persuade us to hold that in view of the recent disturbing trends surfacing
in the Indian polity, such as continuous denigration of judiciary and
experience proving the safeguards spelt out in Sheth case ( Union of India
v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , against the abuse of transfer power, broken reed,
coupled with the claim for naked and arbitrary power, the time has come to
reconsider the majority view in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , by further buttressing independence of judiciary and completely
insulating it against compulsive transfers by accepting the minority view
in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , , that a non-consensual
transfer is beyond the purview of Article 222. In support of this
submission Mr. Seervai drew attention to some observations in the judgments
of Chandrachud, J. and Krishna Iyer, J. which according to him are
factually incorrect and a decision based on such incorrect assumption would
render the majority view not sustainable. I remain unconvinced. In my
detailed judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , in the
Gujarat High Court I have given long and elaborate reasons for rejecting
the contention that non-consensual transfers are not within the purview of Article 222. I would not reiterate them because I unreservedly accept the
majority view of this Court in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , as correct. I would, however, briefly deal with some of the
submissions of Mr. Seervai in this behalf.807. The first error in the
majority judgment which, it was contended, would necessitate
reconsideration of the majority view that it is not necessary to read the
words 'with his consent' in Article 222(1) , was that the majority view
proceeds on the erroneous assumption that the Government of India Act,
1935 , did not contain any provision for transfer of a High Court Judge.
Chandrachud, J. has observed that" the Government of India Act 1935 did not
contain any provision for the transfer of a judge. That is why it provided
that the office of a Judge shall be vacated either on the Judge being
appointed to be a Judge of the Federal Court or on being appointed as a
Judge of another High Court "(SCR p. 448 : SCC p. 222, para 26). Krishna
Iyer, J., who concurs with the majority view has in this context observed
that" it has already been pointed out above that the Government of India
Act, 1935 did not contain any provision for transfer which was effectuated
by appointing a Judge of one High Court as a Judge of another High Court
"(SCR p. 493 : SCC p. 268, para 104). In this connection it may as well be
pointed out that in the minority judgment, Bhagwati, J. who accepted the
contention that Article 222(1) comprehends only consensual transfer has
also observed that" . . . there was also no specific provision in the Act ( Government of India Act, 1935 ) conferring power to transfer a High Court
Judge. The power to transfer a High Court Judge was expressly conferred for
the first time under the Constitution. . . "(SCR p. 473 : SCC p. 246, para 59). Therefore, the assumption that the Government of India Act, 1935 , did
not contain a provision for transfer, which on further examination turns
out to be erroneous, did not materially affect the outcome because while
accepting this position that there was no such provisions, the majority
reached the conclusion that Article 222(1) does not cater to only
consensual, and that non-consensual transfer is within the purview of Article 222(1). The minority reached an exactly opposite conclusion relying
on this very aspect. It would, therefore, appear that the assumption is not
so material as to necessitate reconsideration of the majority view. Even
otherwise let me see whether presence or absence of the provision to
transfer a Judge in the Government of India Act, 1935 , has any bearing on
the question of construction of Article 222(1) .808. Section 220 of the
Government of India Act, 1935, provided for constitution of High Courts. Sub-section (2) of Section 220 provided that" every Judge of a High Court
shall be appointed by His Majesty by warrant under the Royal Sign Manual
and shall hold office until he attains the age of 60 years ". There is a
proviso to this sub-section. paragraph (c) of which states that the office
of a Judge shall be vacated by his being appointed by His Majesty to be a
Judge of the Federal Court or of another High Court. It was assumed during
the course of arguments in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , before this Court that paragraph (c) of the proviso to Section 220(2)
formed part of the Government of India Act, 1935 , as originally enacted. On
investigation that does not appear to be correct. It is now pointed out
that paragraph (c) of the proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 220 was
introduced by Section 2 of the India (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1944.
By Section 6 of the 1944 Act retrospective operation was given to the
amendment introduced by Section 2 from the commencement of the Government
of India Act, 1935 . The marginal note to Section 2 of the 1944 Act reads : proposed the insertion of Article 222 to enable the President to transfer a
Judge of a High Court from one High Court to another. The proposed
provision of the Constitution would not permit of any compensatory
allowance being given to Judges on such transfer. Power has accordingly
been reserved to Parliament to determine by law the compensatory allowance
to be paid in case they are so transferred, and, until Parliament so
determines, to the President to fix by order the quantum of such allowance. But it is not given to him to write his own theories, likes and dislikes
into the Constitution and the law". The further comment is that" the
personal views of a judge are irrelevant "in the matter of interpretation
of a constitutional provision. A further warning was administered that no
scientific theory propounded in a book can form the basis of a judgment,
for, it is opinion evidence, and such an evidence is admissible on
condition that the scientific witness goes into the box and is cross-
examined. The serious objection is to the judge writing philosophical and
social thesis. Now, interpretation of a constitutional provision is both an
art and a science but while resorting to well-known canons of construction
unwittingly the pet theory that the independence of judiciary is prized so
high that in order to achieve it if it becomes a compelling necessity the
provision of a constitution may be rewritten, no canon of construction
permits this to be done. We must always remember that we are called upon to
construe the Constitution, the fundamental law of the land. No doubt" a
broad and liberal spirit should inspire those whose duty it is to interpret
it, but I do not imply by this that they are free to stretch or pervert the
language of the enactment in the interest of any legal or constitutional
theory or even for the purpose of supplying omissions or of correcting
supposed errors ". (In re The Central Provinces and Berar Act, 1938 (1939)
FCR 18, 37 : : 180 IC 161) The Constitution-makers
clearly envisaged a power to transfer a High Court Judge and conferred it
on the President and howsoever we may disapprove this power we cannot wish
this power away by rewriting the article. There is no power in the Court to
rewrite the article. Dr. Ambedkar who piloted the Constitution in his
speech on November 25, 1949, on the motion that the Constitution as settled
by the Constituent Assembly be passed, adopted the following observation
with approval :Courts may modify, they cannot replace. They can revise
earlier interpretations as new arguments, new points of view are presented,
they can shift the dividing line in marginal cases, but there are barriers
they cannot pass, definite assignments of power they cannot reallocate.
They can give a broadening construction of existing powers, but they cannot
assign to one authority powers explicitly granted to another. If we read the words 'with consent' not only the power of the President is
totally taken away but the power is reallocated to the Judge who is to be
transferred namely, he cannot be ordered to be transferred but he can be
requested, a request which can be finally turned down. 813. The suggested construction is contrary to jurisprudential concept of
power. It was never disputed that Article 222(1) confers power on the
President to transfer a Judge from one High Court to another High Court.
The only limitation on the power is a prior consultation with the Chief
Justice of India. Now, if the power to transfer vested in the President can
only be exercised with the consent of the Judge who is to be transferred,
does there remain any power in the President to discharge his
constitutional function entrusted to him by Article 222(1) ? When power is
vested in a person or a constitutional functionary there ought to be the
subject and object of power. Power is generally defined as" ability
conferred upon a person by the law to alter, by his own will directed to
that end, the rights, duties, liabilities or other legal relations, either
of himself or of other persons. Powers are classified either as public or
private. Power is said to be public when it is vested in a person as an
agent or instrument of the functions of the State. Amongst others, it
contains executive authority ". (See for this discussion pages 229 and 230
of SALMOND ON JURISPRUDENCE by Fitzerald 7th Edn.) The correlative of power
is liability. This connotes the presence of power vested in someone else,
as against the person under liability. It is the position of one whose
legal rights may be altered by the exercise of a power. Hopefield describes
power and disability as jural contradiction. Now, if the power is in the
President, there is a liability as jural correlative in the Judge who can
be transferred. And that power remains power if the liability can be
imposed without consent. The moment the concept of consent is imported the
power ceases to be power and becomes disability. It either becomes immunity
or disability, more appropriately disability, in the sense of lack of
power. (See for this discussion pages 229 and 230 of SALMOND ON
JURISPRUDENCE by Fitzerald 7th Edn.) Is it open to the Court by a process
of interpretation to neutralise the power and thereby remove the disability
which was constitutionally provided ? I consider it impermissible and,
therefore, also the contention that the Court should read the words 'with
his consent' in Article 222(1) must be rejected.814. What then is the check
against arbitrary exercise of power conferred by Article 222(1) once the
argument that it can only be exercised with the consent of the Judge to be
transferred is rejected. This power to transfer a High Court Judge has
rightly been described as an extraordinary power. The question then is,
unless a positive check on its arbitrary exercise emanating from judiciary
is found, this extraordinary power is likely to undermine independence of
judiciary. It was said that the best check would be if this power can be
hedged in with condition that it can only be exercised with the consent of
the Judge, a submission which has not commended to me. Now, if this
safeguard of reading consent in Article 222 is rejected, is there any other
safeguard against arbitrary exercise of power ? We were repeatedly reminded
that this power was positively abused in 1976 when 16 Judges were
transferred en masse and it is well recognised that what has been once
done, if not restrained or checked, may be done again. In Sheth case ( Union
of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , the first safeguard against arbitrary exercise of
power was found in the obligation cast on the President to consult the
Chief Justice of India and, therefore, the parameters of consultation were
drawn very wide so that the power may not be exercised to the detriment of
the Judge for a collateral purpose. The second safeguard was found in
reading into Article 222 that the power to transfer a High Court Judge can
only be exercised in public interest. Chandrachud, J. held that the power
to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public
interest and not for purposes of providing the executive with a weapon to
punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who for some reason or the
other has fallen from its grace. At another place it was observed that if
the power of the President who is to act on the advice of Council of
Ministers to transfer a High Court Judge under Article 222(1) is strictly
limited to cases in which the transfer becomes necessary in order to
subserve public interest, in other words, if it be true that the President
has no power to transfer a High Court Judge for reasons not being in public
interest but arising out of whim, caprice or fancy of the executive, or its
desire to bend a Judge to its own way of thinking, there is no possibility
of any interference with the independence of judiciary if a Judge is
transferred without his consent. The same view is shared by Krishna Iyer,
J. in his concurring judgment. Therefore, the majority declined to read the
words 'with his consent' in Article 222(1). The majority, therefore,
concluded that non-consensual transfer is within the purview of Article
222(1). Even the minority does not question the view that the power to
transfer a Judge can only be exercised in public interest.815. The public
interest like public policy is an unruly horse and is incapable of any
precise definition and, therefore, it was urged that this safeguard is very
vague and of doubtful utility. It was urged that these safeguards failed to
checkmate the arbitrary exercise of power in 1976. This approach over-looks
the fact that the Lakshman Rekha drawn by the safeguards when transgressed
or crossed, the judicial review will set at naught the mischief. True it is
that it is almost next to impossible for individual Judge of a High Court
to knock at the doors of the Courts because access to justice is via the
insurmountable mountain of costs and expenses. This need not detain us
because we have seen that in time of crisis the Bar has risen to the
occasion twice over in near past though it must be conceded that judicial
review is increasingly becoming the preserve of the high, mighty and the
affluent. But the three safeguards, namely, full and effective consultation
with the Chief Justice of India, and that the power to transfer can be
exercised in public interest, and judicial review, would certainly insulate
independence of judiciary against an attempt by the executive to control
it. 816. There was a lively debate as to whether transfer of a Judge who has to
some extent become obnoxious in a High Court would be in public interest.
Chandrachud, J. observed that : (SCC p. 220, para 22)

Experience shows that there are cases, though fortunately they are few and
far between, in which the exigencies of administration necessitate the
transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another. The factious local
atmosphere sometimes demands the drafting of a Judge or Chief Justice from
another High Court and on the rarest of rare occasions which can be counted
on the fingers of a hand, it becomes necessary to withdraw a Judge from a
circle of favourites and non-favourites. The voice of compassion is heard
depending upon who articulates it. Though transfers in such cases are pre-
eminently in public interest, it will be impossible to achieve that purpose
if a Judge cannot be transferred without his consent. His personal interest
may lie in continuing in a Court where his private interest will be served
best, whereas, public interest may require that his moorings ought to be
served to act as a reminder that "the place of justice is a hallowed
place".This approach mixes up two independent problems. While transfer in
public interest is conducive to independence of judiciary, such power when
exercised with a view to punishing a Judge becomes counter-productive. To
punish a High Court Judge by an impermissible method is not in public
interest. And if a Judge is uprooted from one place because he has made
himself obnoxious, the transfer itself may inflict punishment. In the whole
controversy in this case this is the grey area and it is difficult to give
precise answer either way. 817. Public interest is an expression incapable of any precise definition
nor what constitutes public interest is capable of specific enumeration. A
negative definition was attempted by learned Attorney-General when he said
that if a judge is guilty of misbehaviour or is suffering from incapacity
he ought to be removed and not transferred but if the Judge is not guilty
of any misbehaviour but because of activities of some others has become
ineffective his transfer could be said to be in public interest. One can
visualise a situation when a Judge having an expertise in some specialised
branch of law may be required to be transferred to another High Court where
it becomes necessary to strengthen that department. Transfer in such a
situation would indisputably be in public interest. Unquestionably such
transfer may cause some inconvenience or hardship to the transferred Judge,
but by no stretch of imagination it can be said to cast either a slur or
that the order was passed with a view to punishing him. Such a situation in
our vast country with number of High Courts can be easily envisaged. A
transfer of this nature even if it involves to the Judge concerned some
hardship, some inconvenience, some pecuniary loss, yet his outstanding
merit which necessitated his transfer for strengthening another High Court
would far outweigh the personal considerations. If it is recognition of
merit, the Judge would himself hardly make any grievance about it. To
question such a transfer as not being in public interest by illustration
that there are three Judges of same eminence in three High Courts, what
basis can be adopted for the transfer of a Judge, is too hypothetical to
need an answer. No rule can be framed to meet with such a situation. A
threat of a resignation by such a Judge is inconceivable. One can visualise
a number of situations where a transfer can be in public interest and when
a transfer is effected in public interest and when questioned, the
authority exercising the power of transfer must make good the claim of
public interest. To say that public interest is not a sufficient safeguard
is to deny what is being day in and day out done in Court, viz., that a
certain action being in public interest is upheld.818. But the serious and
fairly difficult question is, whether a Judge can be transferred on account
of complaints against him or on account of anything in his conduct or
behaviour. Let us put the negative in the majority view in the forefront.
Chandrachud, J. has in most unequivocal terms stated that" the power to
transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public
interest and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon
to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some reason or the
other, has fallen from its grace "(SCR p. 444 : SCC pp. 217-18, para 15).
At another place he said that he has taken the view that a High Court Judge
cannot be transferred as a matter of punishment, as for example, for the
views which he bona fide holds and that his transfer, being conditioned by
the requirements of public interest, cannot be effected for an extraneous
purpose,. . . (p. 446 : SCC p. 220, para 21). Bhagwati, J. observed that" Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth, which gives an impression that the President alone can
initiate the proposal. In Paragraph 140 it is stated that :" It is not for
a moment suggested that the proposal for transfer must emanate from the
Chief Justice. That is not expected and it is bound to emanate from the
President. The process for inception of the proposal is not to be reversed.
Such a thing may also be open to objection and the reason is apparent ". At
first blush this passage gives an impression that upon its true
construction Article 222(1) precludes anyone except the President of India
to initiate the proposal for transfer and that in any case the Chief
Justice of India cannot initiate the proposal. The observation was in the
context of a submission that exercise of power of transfer by the executive
would be subversive of independence of judiciary and that in order to
eliminate arbitrary exercise of power conferred on the President the Court
must so construe Article 222(1) that the proposal for transfer must
originate with the Chief Justice of India. The submission presently
examined is exactly the converse but answering the submission before the
High Court it was observed that in order to ensure independence of
judiciary it is not obligatory that a proposal for transfer must emanate
from the Chief Justice of India. The passage, therefore, must be read in
this light.820. Summing up the discussion, following propositions emerge
both on principle and authority. While testing the validity or otherwise of
an order of transfer of a High Court Judge made by the President in
exercise of the power conferred by Article 222(1) , below-mentioned tests
will have to be applied : 821. The allegations made and countered in this group of petitions may be
examined on the touchstone of aforementioned well-settled propositions so
as to reach an affirmative conclusion one way or the other, whether the
order dated January 19, 1981, transferring Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of Patna as Chief Justice, Madras, is constitutionally valid or
otherwise. 822. Factual averments are set out in petitions as well as numerous
affidavits filed in the course of hearing of these petitions. Two important
affidavits are of Shri K. B. N. Singh, dated September 16, 1981, and
counter-affidavit of the Chief Justice of India dated September 29, 1981.
Shri K. B. N. Singh filed on October 16, 1981, an affidavit in reply to the
affidavit of the Chief Justice of India. It is rather unfortunate that
there is divergence between the affidavits of Shri Singh and the affidavit
of the Chief Justice of India but the painful and agonising task of
searching where the truth lies is spared by the stand taken by Shri Singh's
learned counsel, Dr. Singhvi, that he would not refer to any divergence
between these affidavits and base his submissions on the points on which
they converge. The only difficulty we experienced is that in the course of
discussion some queries emerged and had to be left at that stage because
Mr. Parasaran, learned Solicitor-General to whom we addressed our queries,
frankly confessed his inability to help because he did not appear for the
Chief Justice of India. In Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , the Chief Justice of India appeared through counsel but did not file
his affidavit. In this case Chief Justice of India filed his affidavit but
did not appear through counsel to assist the Court. We are, therefore, left
to fend for ourselves. But let it be made distinctly clear that the
affidavit of Chief Justice of India would be looked upon as setting out the
truth, and is entitled to undiluted respect befitting the dignity of his
office.823. Shri K. B. N. Singh has filed has filed as many as four
affidavits. It is not necessary to recapitulate the averments in these
affidavits. The broad allegations which have a bearing on the issues under
discussion may be briefly stated. 824. In his first affidavit dated September 7, 1981, the only averment
worth referring to is that he had not at any time consented to his transfer
to Madras and that no reasons, grounds, questions or materials
necessitating of justifying his transfer from Patna to Madras were ever
disclosed to him or discussed with him by the President of India or the
Government of India or by the Chief Justice of India. He also states that
it was not possible for him to give consent to his transfer on account of a
compelling personal problem, namely, that his mother of advanced age is
staying with him and she is seriously ailing and bedridden for over two
years and who is not in a position to be moved out of Patna without risk to
her life and he is not in a position to leave her alone. Coupled with this
affidavit there was a request that from the array of respondents he may be
transposed as petitioner 3, which request was granted. 825. Consequent upon transposition of Shri K. B. N. Singh as petitioner 3,
detailed amendments to the petition preferred by two advocates, would have
been inevitable. With a view to avoiding the same, Shri K. B. N. Singh was
given liberty to file a detailed affidavit setting out therein all his
contentions. Pursuant to this liberty reserved in his favour he has filed a
detailed affidavit dated September 16, 1981, inter alia, contending that in
February 1980, the Chief Justice of India visited Patna for inaugurating
International Rotary Conference. The fact that such a conference was held
on February 23 and 24, 1980 and that it was inaugurated by the Chief
Justice of India is not disputed but what is controverted is that the visit
was not specifically for the purpose of inaugurating the Conference but it
was an official visit incidental to which the invitation to inaugurate the
conference was accepted. Shri Singh then proceeds to state that during this
visit the Chief Justice of India did not give him any inkling of a proposal
to transfer him. This is admitted by the Chief Justice of India saying that
at that time no proposal for transfer of Shri Singh was even mooted and,
therefore, there was no question of giving him any inkling in this behalf.
Shri Singh then proceeds to state that on January 5, 1981, for the first
time he received a telephonic message from the Chief Justice of India that
as Shri M. M. Ismail, the then Chief Justice of Madras was proposed to be
transferred to Kerala, in the consequential vacancy in the office of Chief
Justice, Madras, Shri Singh was proposed to be transferred. Shri Singh
enquired why he was being transferred to Madras and the Chief Justice of
India said that it was 'Government policy'. The fact that there was such a
telephonic conversation between Shri Singh and the Chief Justice of India
on January 5, 1981, is admitted and also that during this conversation
there was reference to 'Government policy' bearing on the question of
transfer was also referred to. What is disputed is that for the proposed
transfer 'Government policy' was not the only reason given by Chief Justice
of India and the Chief Justice of India in his counter-affidavit has stated
that over and above referring to Government policy, Shri Singh was informed
that it was proposed to transfer Chief Justice M. M. Ismail from Madras and
it was necessary to appoint an experienced and senior Chief Justice in his
place. Shri Singh then asserts that he informed the Chief Justice of India
that his mother who lives with him was seriously ill and bedridden and was
not in a position to be moved from Patna without risk to her life. This is
admitted. The additional averment of Shri Singh that he also stated certain
other compelling and personal circumstances and difficulties was disputed
and denied. Undoubtedly the further averment of Shri Singh that despite all
these difficulties, if his transfer is insisted upon he might be compelled
to resign and such a statement having been made by him in the telephonic
conversation is admitted by the Chief Justice of India. Shri Singh was also
informed that the Chief Justice of India has taken note of the difficulties
mentioned by him and that it would be taken into consideration before a
final decision was taken. The Chief Justice of India also requested Shri
Singh during this conversation to come over to Delhi to discuss the
question of his transfer. Shri Singh further avers that he reached Delhi
three or four days after this telephonic conversation and according to
Chief Justice of India Shri Singh came to Delhi on January 8, 1981, and met
him at his residence. There is some divergence on the question as to the
duration of time for which Shri Singh was with the Chief Justice of India.
According to Shri Singh he was with Chief Justice of India for 10 to 15
minutes while according to Chief Justice of India he was with him for a
period much longer than 10 to 15 minutes. During this discussion according
to Shri Singh the Chief Justice of India was non-committal in the matter of
Shri Singh's transfer. Shri Singh proceeded to tell the Chief Justice of
India during this conversation at the residence of the latter that it was
possible that baseless complaints which are the bane of Bihar might have
been made to him and if so, he would like to remove any wrong impression
that might have been created. Even after this suggestion, according to Shri
Singh, the Chief Justice of India did not put any question or material to
him which necessitated or justified his transfer. The version given by the
Chief Justice of India in his counter-affidavit is that the question of
Shri Singh's mother's illness was discussed and the Chief Justice of India
disclosed his inability to agree with Shri Singh that there were no other
dependable persons in his family who could look after his mother and it was
pointed out that Shri S. B. N. Singh, the brother of Shri Singh who was a
practising advocate in the Patna High Court was quite capable of looking
after the mother. The Chief Justice of India admits that during this
discussion Shri Singh pointed out that it was possible that some baseless
complaints may have been made to him (Chief Justice of India) and that he
(Shri Singh) would like to remove any wrong impression which those
complaints may have created. On this reference being made by Shri Singh the
Chief Justice of India told him that he did not go by baseless complaints,
that he did not believe that his (Shri Singh's) conduct was blameworthy,
but that if he wanted to explain any matter, which according to him had
created dissatisfaction about the working of the High Court he was free to
do so. The Chief Justice of India further states that during this
conversation Shri Singh told him how certain persons connected with the
High Court were influenced by communal considerations and how he, on his
own part, did not permit communal or any other extraneous considerations to
influence him administratively or judicially. The Chief Justice of India
further states that he (Chief Justice of India) assured Shri Singh that he
did not hold that he (Shri Singh) himself was to blame but that certain
persons were exploiting their proximity to him which had created needless
misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Number of grounds have been stated by
Shri Singh in this affidavit but those of which notice may be taken are
that the transfer is without consent which according to him is
impermissible, and that the consultation was not full, effective and
meaningful in that the relevant considerations were not taken into account,
no verification of facts was made and there was no relevant consideration
for coming to a fair and considered conclusion that such a transfer would
be in public interest. One additional ground is that the impugned order of
transfer is punitive in character. Further, the transfer caused injury and
the injury is inflicted without following the principles of natural
justice, and the transfer is not shown to be in public interest.826. Chief
Justice of India filed his counter-affidavit dated September 29, 1981. Shri
Singh filed reply to the counter-affidavit on October 16, 1981. In between
there are two affidavits, one of Shri K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary,
Department of Justice, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, being
counter-affidavit on behalf of the Union of India, and the other by Shri T.
N. Chaturvedi, Secretary, Department of Justice, Government of India,
specifically claiming privilege against disclosure of certain documents
called for by Shri Singh. 827. By an order made by this Court, the Union of India was called upon to
disclose all relevant documents, nothing, etc. bearing on the question of
transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh. Pursuant to this order a file was
submitted to this Court containing the correspondence between the Chief
Justice of India and the Law Minister, Chief Justice of India and the Prime
Minister, and a letter from Shri M. G. Ramachandran, Chief Minister of
Tamil Nadu to Law Minister. 828. The evidence furnished by the correspondence may have to be evaluated,
appreciated, analysed and examined along with the averments made in various
affidavits. The correspondence has to be read in juxtaposition with the
averments in the affidavits so that the clear picture of fact situation may
emerge which may assist in disposing of the contentions raised by Shri
Singh. 829. The Chief Justice of India wrote to the Law Minister on December 7,
1980. This is a fairly long letter, part of which refers to filling in the
vacancies in the Supreme Court which may be ignored as being wholly
irrelevant for the present purpose. The next subject discussed is
confirmation of acting Chief Justices one of whom is Shri K. D. Sharma,
then Acting Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court and the recommendation is
that he should be confirmed. There is a reference to Justice Mufti Baha-ud-
Din Farooqi, then Acting Chief Justice of Jammu & Kashmir. The
recommendation bearing on the question of confirmation of Justice Farooqi
as Chief Justice is not relevant but as we are dealing with the transfer
and as the proposal has emanated from the Chief Justice of India, what were
the relevant considerations present to the mind of the Chief Justice of
India on the question of transfer have a vital bearing on the final outcome
and, therefore, that part of the letter which recites a recommendation for
transfer of Justice Farooqi can be taken into account. This is being
referred to for a very limited purpose as to the overall view of the
letter, the approach of the Chief Justice of India, the permeating flavour
in the letter that the transfer is consequent upon some inquiries in
respect of complaints against various Chief Justices and this has a vital
bearing on the topic of transfer. Viewed from this angle, the statement in
this letter that several complaints have been received against Mr. Justice
Farooqi, some of which, on verification, seem well founded, has a direct
nexus to the recommendation that Mr. Justice Farooqi, then Acting Chief
Justice of Jammu & Kashmir should be transferred as a puisne Judge of the
Punjab & Haryana High Court. As would be pointed out later, indisputably
the transfer was a direct consequence of complaints found well founded on
verification and, therefore, the transfer was directly and irrevocably
related to the conduct of Justice Farooqi.830. The Chief Justice of India
then proceeds to state in unmistakable terms as under which is very very
relevant : Such an approach would expose high constitutional functionary like Chief
Justice of a High Court without remedy, reprieve and relief.837. Disclosed
correspondence thus being the only source of what happened during two weeks
commencing from December 7, 1980, and ending with the letter dated December
20, 1980, has to be minutely albeit dispassionately and objectively
scanned. During the fateful period five Chief Justices and one puisne Judge
were proposed to be transferred. They include Chief Justices K. D. Sharma
(Rajasthan), K. B. N. Singh (Patna), M. M. S. Gujral (Sikkim), Acting Chief
Justice Farooqi (J & K), Chief Justice M. M. Ismail (Madras) and Justice M.
H. Hussain, a puisne Judge of the Allahabad High Court who was to be
promoted, transferred and posted as Chief Justice, Jammu & Kashmir. And
notice the rotational movement. Shri Sharma was first proposed to be moved
from Jodhpur to Ernakulam, i.e. Rajasthan to Kerala, from the Hindi
speaking belt to an area where Hindi is hardly welcome. Shri Gujral moves
from Sikkim to Ernakulam, that is, from Sikkimese to Malayalam and from
extreme north to down south. Within 24 hours the wheel turned almost 180
degrees when Shri Sharma instead of going to extreme south, i.e. Ernakulam
in Kerala, is pushed to extreme north, Sikkim in the foothills of
Himalayas. Shri Singh is first proposed to be sent from Patna to Jodhpur,
Rajasthan, both in Hindi speaking belt and then actually shifted to Madras,
Hindi to Tamil, seriously objected to by Mr. M. G. Ramchandran, Chief
Minister of Tamil Nadu. Shri Ismail moved from Madras to Kerala not very
far away though from Tamil to Malayalam language area. Shri Farooqi who was
first in Kashmir, then sent to Allahabad, brought back to Kashmir, is
proposed to be demoted and sent to Chandigarh. Shri Mohammad Hamid Hussain
moves from Allahabad to Jammu & Kashmir. The chequered history of this
rotational movement spreading over hardly 13 days would hardly satisfy the
rigorous test of a mature, objective, dispassionate consideration of the
various factors involved in the transfer. This is all the more so because
as it will be pointed out a little while later that the Government of India
possibly out of deference to Chief Justice of India, which ought to be the
right attitude, had simply abdicated itself and accepted the proposals not
for the reasons for which they were made but for entirely contrary and
opposite reasons.838. Transfer of Shri Singh is sought to be sustained on
the ground that it is not by way of punishment nor on account of
misbehaviour or objectionable conduct on his part nor with a view to
casting a stigma on him but in larger public interest, namely, that he
being an experienced senior Chief Justice, such a person was required to
man a premier High Court like the Madras High Court. Does the
correspondence bear out this submission ? 839. The letter dated December 7, 1980, read as a whole, piecemeal or
linewise hardly indicates that Shri Singh was proposed to be transferred
because he was the senior experienced man and a premier High Court like the
Madras High Court would require a senior experienced person. All High
Courts are of equal importance, save that some High Courts have a span of
more than a century and others were formed after the independence. When the
submission that transfer of Shri Singh was not in public interest is
considered, it would be pointed out that when transfer was first mooted,
there was not even a remote possibility of Madras High Court requiring a
senior experienced Judge. 840. With this background, if the letter dated December 7, 1980, is read as
a whole, an indelible impression is formed on the mind that the governing
consideration for recommending transfers was that one or the other Chief
Justice had made himself obnoxious on account of complaints against him.
Mr. Justice Farooqi's case is an instance in point and it is
incontrovertible that in his case it was proposed that he be demoted and
transferred from Jammu & Kashmir to Chandigarh because several complaints
had been received against him some of which on verification seem well
founded. And this is the under-tone of the whole letter because it is with
reference to Justice Farooqi that the proposals for transfer commenced in
the letter. And this is reinforced when one reads the case of Shri Satish
Chandra, Chief Justice of Allahabad because it is suggested by the Chief
Justice of India that he is fairly satisfied that Shri Satish Chandra
should be transferred but that he will formulate the proposal by reaching a
decision after a visit to Allahabad when he proposed to meet various
members of the Allahabad Bar as also Judges of the High Court to ascertain
the state of affairs in Allahabad. If Shri Satish Chandra is the senior,
experienced Chief Justice, that aspect is not to be collected by a visit to
Allahabad. If some other public interest requires transfer of Shri Satish
Chandra, a visit to Allahabad would hardly be enlightening. If the state of
affairs at Allahabad is required to be ascertained a visit is inevitable.
That such a visit was in contemplation is clearly stated and during this
visit what was contemplated to be done was a meeting with various members
of the Allahabad Bar as also Judges of the Allahabad High Court. And this
meeting was for the avowed object of ascertaining the state of affairs in
Allahabad which will have a bearing on the proposal to transfer Shri Satish
Chandra. Can it be said in all humility that the sequence of events herein
set out would not unmistakably show that the complaints against Shri Satish
Chandra have to be examined, the truth or otherwise of it has to be
ascertained, the degree of his unacceptability at Allahabad has to be
determined and upon all these considerations flowing invariably from
complaints against Shri Satish Chandra, a transfer proposal would be
submitted. Add to this the statement in the letter dated December 7, 1980,
when the chapter on transfers opens that transfers be made in appropriate
cases for strictly objective reasons. In this connection Chief Justice of
India states that he has made personal enquiries in this behalf and has met
several lawyers and many Judges of the concerned High Courts and on the
basis of the data collected during such visit and enquiry which he has
considered with greatest objectivity, he proposed transfers including that
of Shri Singh. Therefore, the transfer is the outcome of enquiries from
lawyers and judges, about local atmosphere qua a Judge necessitating his
transfer. The transfer in such a case would be clearly relatable to the
alleged misbehaviour, if any, or conduct of the Judge.841. Read the letter
as a whole and the permeating flavour emerging from it is that the Chief
Justice of India believed, truthfully and honestly, but impermissible
according to the ratio in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth , that the transfer in each case was to remove the Judge from a certain
place because he had made himself obnoxious and that this cannot be for any
other reason except punishment because it has already been pointed out that
transfer is more harmful than even punishment. This conclusion is
reinforced by a specific, unambiguous assertion extracted herein above that
the Chief Justice of India was opposed to the wholesale transfer of Chief
Justices of High Courts and that his approach was that :" transfer may be
made in appropriate cases for strictly objective reasons. Personal
considerations must be wholly kept out in such cases ". Analysing this
sentence it would mean that wholesale transfer of Chief Justices referable
to an objective norm that the Chief Justices shall always be from outside
is not acceptable to the Chief Justice of India. That is his view and he
strictly adheres to it. He is, therefore, certainly not proposing transfers
as and by way of policy. It would be so because in his leading judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , he has expressed in no
uncertain terms that policy transfers on a wholesale basis which leave no
scope for considering the facts of each particular case and which are
influenced by one-sided governmental considerations are outside the
contemplation of our Constitution. The Chief Justice of India is thus
opposed to policy transfers. Therefore, he is not proposing these transfers
by way of policy transfers. The Chief justice of India is of the view that
the transfer may be made in appropriate case, meaning thereby selective
transfers. Then he says that it must be for objective reasons. These
objective reasons may include complaints against the Judge concerned and
the complaints, if found to be of substance, transfer may be ordered
pursuant to the complaints. Transfers on such complaints can be made and
would not be made punitive is also his view in the leading judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . To recall his observation
that" the factious local atmosphere sometimes demands the drafting of a
Judge or Chief justice from another High Court and on the rarest of rare
occasions which can be counted on the fingers of a hand, it becomes
necessary to withdraw a Judge from a circle of favourites and non-
favourites "(SCC p. 220, para 22). Transfer for these reasons would,
according to the view expressed by Chandrachud, J. in Sheth case ( Union of
India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , , be in public interest. This itself is a moot
point. Transfer in appropriate cases not answerable to any objective norms
would be selective transfer. But in view of the majority decision in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth the more objectionable part is
that personal considerations in the matter of such transfers be wholly kept
out. If by personal considerations it is meant the complaints against Judge
then it becomes tautologous because objective reasons remain unexplained. If by personal considerations what is meant is personal difficulties,
inconveniences and hardships of the Judge consequent upon the transfer and
if these are to be kept out of consideration, the transfer order becomes
bad in view of the ratio in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth . Therefore, summing up the whole approach underlying the letter by
which transfers were first proposed show that all the relevant aspects were
not taken into consideration, to wit, proposal to transfer Shri K. D.
Sharma to Kerala, that these were not policy transfers because the Chief
Justice of India was wholly opposed to policy transfers; that these were
selective transfers in appropriate cases meaning complaints against Mr.
Justice Farooqi and the future investigation of complaints against Chief
Justice Satish Chandra, and the data collected in course of enquiry with
lawyers and judges in respect of other Judges whose transfer was proposed,
that the personal considerations, i.e. the personal inconveniences,
hardships and difficulties were to be kept out of consideration, and that
the transfers were to be for objective reasons, namely, complaints against
the concerned Judges, were the governing considerations of the letter and
this was operating on the mind of the Chief Justice of India while
proposing the transfers. It may also be recalled here that while deciding
the transfers the station to which the man is sent has a relevant
consideration because as has been pointed out that some stations are good
and some are not so good. And while deciding the station it is necessary
that the personal considerations of the Judge may have an important
bearing, to wit, education of his children, environmental considerations,
availability of medical facility, health of his parents, if any, etc. and
all these have to be kept in view in deciding the station to which the
Judge is proposed to be transferred. Now, here this aspect seems to have
been taken for granted because on December 7, 1980, Shri Sharma was
proposed to be sent to Kerala and on the next day he was shifted to Sikkim.
Is there anything comparable between Ernakulam and Sikkim save and except
that they form part of India ? Shri Singh was proposed to be transferred
first to Jodhpur and then he was shifted to Madras. Now, nothing transpires
from the record as to what relevant considerations about selecting the
station qua a judge have weighed with the Chief Justice of India while
making proposal for transfer.842. One additional fact which I only propose
to mention and not comment upon is that all the relevant considerations
were not thoroughly examined and analysed before making the proposal and
this becomes apparent from the fact that a very vital consideration that a
junior may not be imposed over a senior was wholly overlooked when Mr. K.
D. Sharma was proposed to be sent to Kerala because there were six Judges
senior to Mr. Sharma who would be puisne Judges and over whom he would be
the Chief Justice. And this is admitted when it is stated that that aspect
while making the proposal was overlooked. This is such a vital
consideration that if the proposal had been carried out, it would have
admittedly invited a great amount of public criticism and would have
resulted in administrative problems in the way of Mr. Justice Sharma
himself. 843. It may be fairly assumed here that at one stage the Chief Justice of
India considered it necessary in public interest to transfer Mr. Justice
Gujral from Sikkim but that proposal was eventually dropped. 844. The most serious contention raised by Dr. Singhvi may now be examined.
Urged Dr. Singhvi, that before a transfer of a Judge is contemplated it is
necessary to keep in view his personal problems and it must be weighed in
relation to the reasons for his transfer. When a high constitutional
functionary like the Chief Justice of India makes a proposal it is not
conceivable that the proposal would be made first and the relevant facts
bearing on the subject may be collected afterwards and examined and
evaluated later on, on a pro-position that if it becomes so necessary the
proposal may be withdrawn. This is now how high constitutional
functionaries discharge their constitutional obligations. Article 222 provides for a minimum safeguard of a consultation with the Chief Justice
of India. What constitutes meaningful, purposive and substantial
consultation has been set out earlier. It includes within its fold an
inquiry into the personal factors of the Judge such as the position of his
wife, children, parents, other inconveniences and difficulties that he
might experience on transfer. This can be gathered either from the Judge
concerned or from other reliable sources. But personal inconveniences at
best can be gathered from the person himself.845. There is not a title of
evidence that before proposing the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh from
Bihar to Rajasthan on December 7, 1980, he had been given even a glimpse of
his proposed transfer. That is an admitted position. Nothing was whispered
to him, neither in February 1980 when the Chief Justice of India paid an
official visit to Patna, nor at any time till December 7, 1980, when a firm
proposal emanated from the Chief Justice of India and was handed in to the
Government of India for being implemented. In this connection it is stated
in the affidavit of the Chief Justice of India that the mother of Shri K.
B. N. Singh is old and is not keeping good health was a fact known to him
since February 1980. The age and health of the mother, an objective fact if
known would by itself hardly be relevant. The real question would be, what
is the position of the mother qua the son and how much is she in her old
age dependent on the son, and what would be the result of bringing about an
estrangement between the two. That is a vital consideration; not the fact
of her age and present health. Till January 5, 1981, during which period
two independent proposals emanated from the Chief Justice of India for
transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, first to Rajasthan and next to Madras, not
a whisper was made to Shri Singh about the proposed transfer. After all,
when a high constitutional functionary like the Chief Justice of India
makes a proposal how speedily it is processed at the highest level becomes
discernible from the fact that the proposal dated December 7, 1980, passed
through the Law Minister to the Prime Minister by December 9, 1980, and was
approved by the Prime Minister and embarrassment was felt as disclosed by
the letter of the Chief Justice of India dated December 18, 1980, while
withdrawing the proposal. The incontrovertible fact situation that emerges
from reading the correspondence is that the Chief Justice of India made the
proposal for transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh in the letter dated December
7, 1980, reaffirmed it in the letter dated December 8, 1980, described it
as tentative by saying that the proposal concerning Shri K. B. N. Singh may
a wait further consideration by the letter dated December 18, 1980, and
affirmed it to be a firm proposal by letter dated December 20, 1980,
without whispering a word to Shri K. B. N. Singh. The proposal is
unaccompanied by necessary relevant facts evidencing the relevant public
interest, and it is inevitable that it must be so. Public interest which
necessitates transfer is not stated. There is not the slightest reference
to the problem of mother of Shri Singh. Maybe, Chief Justice of India may
consider it irrelevant from his standpoint. But President is entitled to
know every relevant fact. And barring making proposal till that day no
relevant fact is collected and even if Chief Justice of India had the
facts, none were stated in the proposal. Would the Chief Justice of India
accept this proposal emanating in this form from President without further
inquiry ? He would send for all relevant material which must be the source
and foundation for transfer. Should the President be denied the same
considerations ? And President says he had no discussion with the Chief
Justice of India. It was for the first time in a telephonic talk in the
evening of January 5, 1981, the Chief Justice of India conveyed the
proposal for transfer to Shri K. B. N. Singh. By that time two firm
proposals, one a tentative and another final were pending with the
Government of India. It would be stretching one's credibility to limit to
hold that Chief Justice of India postponed talking to Shri Singh to a date
later than the proposals. Chief Justice of India is an authority to be
consulted but instead of being consulted he initiated the proposal. The
minimum that is expected of him is that he collects all relevant facts,
also collects the relevant personal problems of the Judge to be
transferred, examines, appraises and evaluates them from all objective
standards keeping in view the possible inconvenience and hardship likely to
be caused to the Judge and comparable public interest which necessitates
transfer and thereafter puts forward the proposal. While discharging such a
high constitutional function of either initiating the proposal for transfer
or for being consulted for transfer it would be a failure to perform the
constitutional duty if the proposal is made first, processed right up to
the Prime Minister in one case and collecting of the data is postponed to a
later date. This is contrary to what Chandrachud, J. has stated in his
judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth ,. To recall, he
said that there can be no purposeful consideration of a matter in the
absence of facts and circumstances on the basis of which alone the nature
of the problem involved can be appreciated and a right decision taken. The
decision to be a right decision must follow the collection of material and
be based on the material and that collection of evidence is not an empty
formality for the record only.846. It was, however, said that before the
proposal was finally implemented by the Presidential notification
transferring Shri K. B. N. Singh there was a full and effective
consultation between the Chief Justice of India and the President and that
by that time the Chief Justice of India was in possession of all the
relevant and material facts. Attention in this context was invited to a
statement in the affidavit of the Chief Justice of India that" there was a
full and effective consultation between me and the President of India on
the question of Shri K. B. N. Singh's transfer from Patna to Madras as
Chief Justice of Madras High Court. Every relevant aspect of that question
was discussed by me fully with the President both before and after I
proposed the transfer ". With reference to the statement in affidavit a
question was put to Mr. Parasaran, learned Solicitor-General as to whether
the discussion involved in consultation was personally with the President
of India or the expression 'President of India' means Government of India
and the consultation was through proper channel as laid down in the rules
of business. A statement was read over to the Court by Mr. Parasaran,
possibly as instructed by the President of India, that at no time the Chief
Justice of India had any personal discussion with the President. Therefore,
one has to fall back on the discussion, if any, the Chief Justice of India
may have either with the Law Minister who as Minister of Justice according
to the rules business would be the proper person to deal with the problem
of transfer. It appears more or less the discussion has been by
correspondence. Even a perfunctory knowledge about official correspondence
would convince anyone that if there is a continuous correspondence on the
subject, every letter would have a reference to to the prior letter bearing
on the subject. Turning to the first letter dated December 7, 1980, in
which a proposal is made for transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh from Patna to
Rajasthan, there is not the slightest reference to any earlier discussion
oral or in writing between the Law Minister and the Chief Justice of India
on the question of transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh. It may be that there
was some public debate about the transfer of all Chief Justice of High
Courts pursuant to a policy which was sought to be evolved that the Chief
Justices of all High Courts must be from outside the State. This evolving
proposal was not acceptable to the Chief Justice of India when he said in
the first letter that he is firmly opposed to a wholesale transfer of Chief
Justice of High Courts. Then he proceeded to point out transfers may be
effected in appropriate cases for strictly objective reasons. Having
settled what ought to be the governing form for transfer, the Chief Justice
proposed transfer of Acting Chief Justice K. D. Sharma, Chief justice K. B.
N. Singh, Acting Chief Justice M. B. Farooqi and Justice M. H. Hussain.
Recalling the statement in the affidavit that there was full and effective
consultation with the President of India prior to transfer, it has to be
evaluated in the light of the contemporaneous written evidence in the form
of the letter of the Chief Justice of India dated December 7, 1980. And in
the statement on behalf of Union of India dated November 12, 1981, it is
specifically made clear that except the disclosed correspondence and
notings for which privilege is claimed there are no minutes or notes of
discussion. I have shown above that there is no other contemporaneous
written record except the correspondence. The first proposal to transfer
Shri K. B. N. Singh finds its place in letter dated December 7, 1980. It is
an admitted position that prior to that there was no discussion between the
Chief Justice of India and the Law Minister. Equally it is an admitted
position that Shri K. B. N. Singh was not even whispered that it was
proposed to transfer him. It is also an admitted position that it was on
January 5, 1981, that the Chief Justice of India talked with Shri K. B. N.
Singh for the first time in which he broached the subject of transfer of
Shri Singh. The inescapable conclusion is that a firm proposal for transfer
was submitted to Government as late as December 20, 1980, and about 15 days
thereafter Shri Singh was told for the first time about his proposed
transfer and was invited to inform the Chief Justice of India about his
personal difficulties and inconveniences. Now, the order of transfer is
dated January 19, 1981. In between Shri Singh met the Chief Justice of
India on January 8, 1981, and till the order of transfer was notified there
is nothing in the correspondence which shows that there was any further
discussion. The firm decision was reached on January 8, 1981 itself because
it was stated to the Court that the Prime Minister approved the proposal of
transfer of Shri Singh on January 9, 1981. It is reasonable to believe that
Law Minister must have processed the proposal on January 8, 1981. The
meeting between Chief Justice of India and Shri Singh took place in the
evening on January 8, 1981. This would establish that a firm proposal for
transfer was made, processed and approved before collecting all the
relevant material which would considerably detract from the validity and
efficacy of the proposal. Even if subsequently gathered facts were
communicated to the President, one could have overlooked this apparent
defect but the written record does not bear out that the President was
informed of all the relevant facts.847. One would have expected in this
connection that while making the proposal for transfer, the very letter
would, in respect of each Judge proposed to be transferred, set out therein
as to what were the personal difficulties, what necessitates the transfer,
which public interest was likely to be served by the transfer and all these
should find their relevant place in the proposal itself. Oral or telephonic
conversation while discharging important constitutional function affecting
character and dignity of such high constitutional functionary as Chief
Justice of a High Court is entirely out of place. The only reference to the
transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh in the first letter is as under : Pursuant to this view held by him he proposed amongst others the transfer
of Shri K. B. N. Singh. This proposal was to be processed by the executive.
It was incumbent upon the executive to have requested the Chief Justice of
India to put all the materials and relevant facts collected by him for
consideration of the President. Obviously, pursuant to a caution voiced by
Chandrachud, J. in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , that
as a high constitutional functionary like the Chief Justice of High Court
was involved all the necessary relevant facts bearing on the question of
transfer must be collected by the Chief Justice of India as this is founded
on the principle that in a matter which concerns the judiciary vitally, no
decision ought to be taken by the executive without obtaining the views of
the Chief Justice of India who, by training and experience, is in the best
position to consider the situation fairly, competently and objectively. In
order to consider every relevant fact in the discharge of this
constitutional obligation the Chief Justice of India would be within his
right and indeed it is his duty wherever necessary to elicit and ascertain
further facts either directly from the Judge concerned or from reliable
sources, but thereafter he has voiced a caution that" the executive cannot
and ought not to establish rapport with the Judges which is the function
and privilege of the Chief Justice "(SCC p. 230, para 43). Consistently
with this weighty judicial pronouncement the Chief Justice of India alone
will have to gather all material and the executive would be well-advised to
keep hands off the judiciary. Therefore, whatever material the Chief
Justice of India will have, has to be placed before the President. The
correspondence manifests a woeful lack of any such material being placed
before the President. That apart, the Chief Justice of India proposed
selective transfers in appropriate cases strictly for objective reasons.
Now, look at the performance of the executive. The executive appears to
have accepted the proposal not on merits but out of reverence for the Chief
Justice of India which constitutes a complete abdication of its function.
This becomes discernible when in the course of hearing in response to a
query made by the Court, the learned Solicitor-General made a statement on
November 12, 1981, which is material for the decision on this point and,
therefore, may be extracted hereunder :Throughout the Government had been
of the view that as a policy the Chief Justices of the various High Courts
should be from outside their States. It is this policy view that was put
across to the Chief Justice of India. The Chief Justice of India expressed
that he was opposed to all the Chief Justices of the High Courts being from
outside and was keen on transfers to be made in appropriate cases strictly
for objective reasons. It is in pursuance of this view propounded by the
Chief Justice of India that he suggested the transfers covered by the
letters which in his view were desirable. Government acceded to the
transfers proposed by the Chief Justice of India as (1) it was felt that
not agreeing to these transfers may be construed as though he Government is
departing from the view of having Chief Justices from outside; (2) the
policy aspect could still be pressed into service later. At a later stage of the hearing to a further query by the Court Mr.
Parasaran in terms stated that the Government accepted the proposal for
transfer not for the reasons which prompted the Chief Justice of India to
propose transfers but for its own reasons. Recalling the test of
consultation at this stage set out just hereinabove that" if one party
makes a proposal to the other who has a counter-proposal in his mind which
is not communicated to the proposer the direction to give effect to the
counter-proposal without anything more, cannot be said to have been issued
after consultation "(SCC p. 63, para 7), the proposal was for a selective
transfer definitely not in consonance with any policy Government of India
may have in contemplation which was firmly opposed and the counter-proposal
was for policy transfer and giving effect to the counter-proposal without
anything more cannot be said to be after consultation. The test of
consultation certainly is not satisfied because not only two minds have not
been able to confer and produce a mutual effect but each did not have full
and identical facts and, therefore, the final decision cannot be said to be
the product of consultation and deliberation.850. A very emotional and
passionate appeal was made by Mr. Parasaran to consider these transfers as
policy transfers. In the light of the statements herein above quoted, the
appeal must fall on deaf ears, for, the Government of India had a policy in
embryonic stage and the Chief Justice of India was firmly opposed to any
such policy because he is firmly committed to the view as laid down in his
majority judgment in Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , that
policy transfers on a wholesale basis which leave no scope for considering
the facts of each particular case and which are influenced by one-sided
governmental considerations are outside the Contemplation of our
Constitution. He reasserts this in his letter dated December 7, 1980. Apart
from this, it is impossible to uphold this transfer. It is no doubt true
that laying down of a policy is the function of the executive. If that
policy relates to judiciary, ordinarily the executive would be well-advised
to have full and effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India,
the highest constitutional functionary in the judiciary. The policy has to
be evolved and firmly laid. Views expressed do not constitute policy. Now
the question is, was there any policy to which these transfers can be
related ? The view of the Government as expressed by the Law Minister is
that Chief Justice of every High Court shall be form outside his
jurisdiction. Maybe, the Government may lay down such a policy and as and
when laid down its constitutional validity may have to be examined. But one
cannot accord the status of policy to a view expressed by the Law Minister,
may be the official spokesman for the Department of Legal Affairs and
Justice of the Government of India. We were not told how a policy is framed
and firmly laid down. But a view occasionally expressed does not have the
trappings of a firmly laid down policy. And it is not in dispute in this
case. In the statement extracted hereinabove made on behalf of the
Government of India, the policy question was to be examined at a later
stage. A reference to the statement of the Law Minister in the Lok Sabha on
July 24, 1980, upon a calling attention motion on the resolution of the Bar
Council of India disapproving Government proposal to appoint seniormost
Judge of a High Court as Chief Justice of another High Court in the
country, may be made. The Law Minister stated as under :The Government has,
however, received representations from various quarters urging that as a
matter of policy the Chief Justice of a High Court should be appointed from
outside the jurisdiction of that High Court. This matter is actively
engaging the attention of the Government. Even though Government's thinking
has not taken a final shape in the matter, the Government is prima facie of
the view that the proposal by and large merits favourable consideration in
the interest of sound judicial administration and also the independence of
the judiciary. This statement would at once reveal that till July 24, 1980, the matter was
under consideration of the Government and that the Government's thinking
had till then not taken a final shape in the matter. Then as late as
September 3, 1981, the Law Minister informed the Consultative Committee of
the Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs that he had sought views
of the Chief Justice of India on the policy of having Chief Justices from
outside as that by itself would considerably improve the functioning of the
High Courts. The Law Minister further apprised the members of the approach
of the Chief Justice in the matter of transfers and appointments of
outsiders. He proceeded to state that a final decision in the matter of a
policy of transfers was still to be taken. At any rate, this unmistakable,
unambiguous statement of the Law Minister on September 3, 1981, much after
the commencement of hearing in this case in the Court, would remove any
vestige of doubt that a decision on policy transfers was yet to be taken.
There was a view expressed but no policy in July 1980, there was no such
policy in January 1981 when Shri K. B. N. Singh was transferred, there was
no policy as late as September 3, 1981, when the case was being heard and
the statement made to this Court on November 12, 1981, that the policy
aspect could still be pressed into service later on, leave no room for
doubt that the impugned transfer was not a policy transfer. Therefore, the
transfer of Shri Singh cannot be upheld as a policy transfer. It is rather
in this context surprising that the Chief Justice of India while firmly
opposing policy transfers in letter dated December 7, 1980, should tell
Shri Singh on January 5, 1981, that it was Government policy to transfer
Judges. And there is nothing to show that between December 7, 1980, and
January 5, 1980, Chief Justice of India has veered round to the view of Law
Minister because if he had, he could have proposed transfer of a large
number of Chief Justices and not confined himself to two only.851. It may
be mentioned in passing that there was a very lively debate about the power
of the executive to lay down policy. It is a well-recognised epithet of
constitutional wisdom that in constitutional matters the Courts do not
decide what is not brought before it nor would it proffer advice except in
a reference under Article 143 , on the wisdom or validity of a future
action. If there is no policy till today it would be unwise to pronounce
upon a future policy without knowing what form and shape it would take. No
carte blanche can be given in this behalf. How dangerous it would be can be
illustrated by observing that if the policy were to be laid down by the
executive that a Judge of the High Court who decides the matter against the
Government will be transferred it would be an objective norm because it can
be easily ascertained whether a Judge has decided a matter against the
Government. Such a policy, if at all laid down, would be complete
antithesis of the independence of judiciary. Therefore, I refrain from
saying anything on the wisdom or validity of what is being proposed as a
policy that every Chief Justice must be from outside the State because
there is no such policy and as and when it is laid down, if questioned, its
validity will have to be examined. 852. One more infirmity urged and likely to invalidate the order of
transfer may now be examined. The power to transfer a High Court Judge can
be exercised only in public interest. In the proposal forwarded to the
Government by the letter dated December 7, 1980, and the letter dated
December 20, 1980, for transferring Shri K. B. N. Singh first to Rajasthan
and then to Madras, it is nowhere stated what public interest is sought to
be served by this transfer. This assumes importance because both the
constitutional functionaries involved in the process of consultation are
operating on different wave-lengths, to wit, Chief Justice of India for
selective transfers, President to buttress the position to evolve a policy
in future. In the affidavit it is stated that consequent upon the transfer
of Shri M. M. Ismail from Madras to Kerala it was necessary to appoint a
senior, experienced Chief Justice in the Madras High Court. Permanent and
senior, experienced Chief Justice from outside to man a High Court seems to
be a phenomenon of recent origin. Ordinarily the seniormost puisne Judge is
appointed as Chief Justice. There were, of course, some cases in which the
Chief Justice was brought from outside and the cases pointed out were of
Mr. Justice Das sent to Karnataka, Mr. Justice Sarjoo Prasad going to
Rajasthan, and out esteemed colleague Mr. Justice R. S. Pathak going to
Himachal Pradesh. But these cases are few and far between. The normal rule
of succession has been the seniormost puisne Judge becoming the Chief
Justice unless he was otherwise found to be unsuitable. And the Chief
Justice of India accepts unreservedly just and rightful expectations of the
seniormost puisne Judge to be promoted as Chief Justice when he suggests
that Mr. Poti, seniormost puisne Judge in Kerala High Court will be
deprived of his just and rightful expectation to be promoted as Chief
Justice when he suggests that Mr. Poti, seniormost puisne Judge in Kerala
High Court will be deprived of his just and rightful expectation to become
Chief Justice on the transfer of Shri K. D. Sharma, and therefore, further
suggested that Mr. Poti be appointed in a suitable vacancy as Chief Justice
but outside Kerala, thereby, of course, denying rightful expectation of the
seniormost puisne Judge in that High Court. Now, Mr. P. R. Gokulakrishnan
is the seniormost puisne Judge of the Madras High Court. Nothing is pointed
out why he would be considered unsuitable for being promoted as Chief
Justice if it becomes necessary to transfer Mr. Ismail. Mr. M. M. Ismail
who was seniormost puisne Judge was promoted as Chief Justice, Madras, on
retirement of Mr. Ramaprasada Rao in the year 1979 who had by that time to
his credit experience of 12 years of High Court judgeship. How it became a
compelling necessity not to promote Mr. Gokulakrishnan even if Shri M. M.
Ismail was to be transferred, left us guessing. Mr. Gokulakrishnan was
appointed as permanent Judge of Madras High Court on July 7, 1969. Mr. Poti
was appointed as Additional Judge of Kerala High Court on March 20, 1969.
If a Judge of a High Court after 12 years of High Court judgeship is not
suitable for being promoted as Chief Justice, he would ordinarily never
become suitable for that post. But Mr. Poti is good enough to be appointed
Chief Justice but unsuitable for Kerala, for which Mr. Sharma an inductee
of 1973 was considered good enough to be permanent Chief Justice. Again,
Mr. S. Sarwar Ali inducted as High Court Judge on July 6, 1970, was
recommended to posted as Acting Chief Justice of Patna High Court on the
transfer of Mr. Singh. If Madras High Court has a life span over a century,
so also Patna High Court has a life span over a century. But Mr. Ismail, a
senior experienced Chief Justice is transferred to Kerala High Court, a
High Court which came into existence as late as 1956 and just celebrated
its Silver Jubilee. Delhi High Court has a permanent Chief Justice who is
an inductee of January 1969. Every attempt to find an objective norm or
yardstick related to proclaimed public interest by which these transfers
can be measured or judged and for which they were ordered has led me to a
blind alley. For over 30 years with some few exceptions the seniormost
puisne Judge was always promoted as the Chief Justice except in the case of
Himachal Pradesh when on setting up the High Court for the first time Mr.
M. H. Beg was transferred from Allahabad and promoted as Chief Justice and
posted at Simla. And also again when someone had not put in five years of
High Court judgeship before his turn to be elevated as Chief Justice
arrived. It is quite well known that the next in line of succession to the
Chief Justice is always being trained by being normally associated with
administration so that when the elevation as Chief Justice becomes due he
has already his grip over the administration. In most of the High Courts
seniormost puisne Judge is always entrusted with a large chunk of
administrative work and, therefore, he is probably well acquainted and
trained to take over the responsibilities of a Chief Justice. There is no
material on record which would show that Mr. Gokulakrishnan would not
compare favourably with Mr. Singh for being appointed as Chief justice of
Madras High Court. Mr. P. S. Poti the seniormost puisne Judge of Kerala
High Court and who is functioning as Acting Chief Justice since the
elevation of the then Chief Justice of Kerala High Court to Supreme Court
has been a Judge of the High Court since 1969. If 12 years of High Court
judgeship does not make the incumbent mature for Chief justice one would be
left guessing when he would become one. And yet Mr. M. M. Ismail was
transferred to Kerala reverting Mr. Poti as puisne Judge. It thus appears
that the transfer of Shri Singh on the ground that he is the seniormost
experienced Chief Justice which would be in public interest, fails to carry
conviction.853. Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for Shri Singh also contended
that the transfer of Shri Singh is punitive in character. The Chief Justice
of India specifically denies this charge. And further it is stated that
when Mr. K. B. N. Singh brought up the question of some baseless complaints
against him, the Chief Justice of India assured him that he did not go by
baseless complaints and he did not believe that his (Mr. Singh's) conduct
was blamewothy. And the Chief Justice of India further assured him that he
did not hold Mr. Singh was to blame but that certain persons were
exploiting their proximity to him which had created needless
misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Thus the answer of the Chief Justice
would certainly show that the complaints against Mr. Singh did not provoke
the transfer. Shri Singhvi, however, tried to persuade us by putting in
juxtaposition certain events which would permit an inference that the
complaints against Shri Singh formed the foundation for the order of
transfer. It was pointed out that when in February 1980 the Chief Justice
of India visited Patna, he met lawyers and judges which may permit an
inference that the complaints against Shri Singh must have been voiced by
those lawyers. This feeling was uppermost in the mind of Shri Singh because
he himself broached the subject at a meeting with the Chief Justice of
India on January 8, 1981, and even though the Chief Justice of India
assured Shri Singh that he did not go by baseless complaints and that he
did not believe that his conduct was blameworthy but yet pointed out that
certain persons were exploiting their proximity with him which had created
needless misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. Drawing sustenance from this
statement it was contended that inferentially speaking the situation had
reached at Patna to such an impasse that Shri Singh was required to be
uprooted from that atmosphere and, therefore, the transfer and this being a
selective transfer it would attach stigma or slur. While accepting what the
Chief Justice of India says that the complaints did not form the foundation
for transfer and that the Chief Justice was actuated by the sole desire to
subserve the public interest in proposing the transfer of Shri Singh,
selective transfers always give rise to canards and the transferred Judge
suffers character assassination. From this limited point of view one cannot
escape the conclusion that such transfer in the background stated would
cast a slur and, therefore, is punitive in character and that would also
vitiate the order of transfer.854. Having examined all the relevant
considerations, regrettable as it may appear, the conclusion is inevitable
that the order of transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh is vitiated for want of
effective consultation and the selective transfer would cast a slur or
stigma. Add to this that the public interest pleaded fails to carry
conviction in the facts and circumstances of this case and, therefore, the
transfer does not appear to be in public interest. For all these reasons
the order of transfer is vitiated and must be declared void. 855. In the course of hearing petitioners requested the Court that the
correspondence that passed between the Chief Justice of India, the Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court and the Law Minister in regard to the non-
appointment of Shri S. N. Kumar as Additional Judge be disclosed. The Union
of India through the affidavit initially of Shri S. M. H. Burney,
Secretary, Ministry of Justice and subsequently by the affidavit of Shri T.
N. Chaturvedi, holding the same post, claimed privilege on the ground that
doctrine of candour demands that the correspondence bearing on the question
of appointment or non-appointment of high constitutional functionaries
should not be disclosed. There was a similar request for disclosure of
correspondence that passed between the Chief Justice of India and the Law
Minister with reference to the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of Patna High Court to Madras High Court. After hearing both sides
at considerable length and first perusing the documents ourselves to
ascertain whether disclosure of it would or would not be in public
interest, we directed disclosure and deferred giving our reasons for the
same. I would, however, briefly say what I feel to be the fairly antiquated
notion about the secrecy in administration. Privilege was claimed under Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Section 123 was enacted in
the hey-day of the colonial regime. And more than a century after when the
Raj has disappeared and a republican form of Government under a liberal
constitution is ushered in, we are told that the principle enunciated in Section 123 holds good. What is impermissible under Section 123 is giving
evidence derived from unpublished official records relating to affairs of
the State. It was said that appointment to high offices is such a sensitive
subject that the expression 'affairs of the State' would be wide enough to
comprehend the same and, therefore, correspondence, notes, notings
connected therewith forming part of unpublished official record cannot be
disclosed to the Court except at the cost of injury to public interest. Add
to this the prohibition enacted in Article 74 that the Court cannot inquire
whether, if any, and if so what, advice was tendered by the minister to the
President. Privilege was claimed and disclosure was opposed on the above-
mentioned ground. It was very passionately urged that no public interest
would be served by washing the linen, dirty if it appears to be, in open
and who is going to be benefited by disclosure of such documents.In the State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev Singh Gajendragadkar, J. speaking for Sinha, C.J. and
Wanchoo, J., referred to Duncan v. Cammell Laird & Co., Ltd. [1942] A.C.
624 : [1942] 1 All E.R. 587: 111 LJ KB 406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)), wherein
Viscount Simons L.C. deduced the principle which has to be applied in such
cases in the following words : mentioned case, the view in this country has more or less changed shades
with the view expressed by the House of Lords. In my opinion, Section 123 must be construed on its own terms. Undoubtedly, a century old provision
enacted to some extent keeping in view the needs of Empire builders must
change in the context of the Republican Government and the open society
which we have set up. Undoubtedly there must be such affairs of the State
involving security of the nation and foreign affairs where public interest
requires that the disclosure should not be ordered. It is, however, equally
well recognised that fair administration of justice is itself a matter of
vital public interest. Therefore, if the two public interests conflict, the
Court will have to decide whether the public interest which formed the
foundation for claiming privilege would be jeopardised if disclosure is
ordered and on the other hand whether fair administration of justice would
suffer by non-disclosure and decide which way the balance tilts. Viewed
from this angle, it was stated in Conway [1968] A.C. 910 : [1968] 1 All
E.R. 874(HL)) that the Court should balance public interest involved where
a clash of public interest is brought to its notice. In the ultimate
analysis the approach of the Court while deciding the question of privilege
would be that it has to balance public interest in just justice and just
administration of justice and State affairs at high level in respect of
appointment to high constitutional offices and then decide which way the
balance tilts. Having formulated this test the answer was that a disclosure
in the interest of justice far outweighs the possible embarrassment felt by
disclosing certain aspects. I do not propose to deal with the matter
further. Justice Bhagwati by a very elaborate discussion has given reasons
why the disclosure was necessary and I find myself so entirely in agreement
with what has been stated by him that I do not think I can usefully add
anything to it.856. The only point that now remains is whether the
petitioners Iqbal M. Chagla and three others in the petition filed in the
Bombay High Court, Mr. V. M. Tarkunde, petitioner in the petition filed in
the Delhi High Court and other advocates who have filed petitions in Patna
and Madras High Courts have a locus standi to maintain the petitions.
Learned Attorney-General did not raise this question but Mr. P. R. Mridul
learned counsel who appeared for the Law Minister in the first set of
petitions seriously contended that the petitioners have no locus standi. In
fact the matter has assumed academic importance because in the first batch
of petitions Shri S. N. Kumar, the learned Judge of the Delhi High Court
who was given short-term extension and was ultimately not appointed, has
questioned the validity and legality both of the circular issued by the Law
Minister and the power claimed by the executive not to appoint an
Additional Judge after the expiry of his initial term. His locus standi is
beyond question. Similarly, in the other batch of petitions Shri K. B. N.
Singh, the Chief Justice transferred is transposed as petitioner 3 in the
petition filed by Shri D. N. Pandey and another advocate of the Patna High
Court and he has challenged the validity and legality of the order of his
transfer. His locus standi is beyond question. Therefore, the contention
about locus standi is now of academic interest and I do not propose to deal
with it. However, I am in full agreement with my learned brother Bhagwati,
J. who has discussed this aspect in meticulous details. 857. That is the end of the journey. To sum up : (3) Consultation under Article 217 must be full, effective and meaningful
and in the case of an Additional Judge, if there is any defect, drawback or
deficiency in the consultation the decision arrived at is open to judicial
review. (4) Power to transfer a High Court Judge conferred by Article 222 on the
President can be exercised after full, effective and meaningful
consultation with the Chief Justice of India and this necessitates all the
facts in possession of one or the other constitutional functionary being
fully exchanged and deliberated upon. (5) Power to transfer a High Court Judge cannot be exercised with a view to
punishing a Judge or for anything in his conduct or behaviour which may
cast a slur or stigma on him. (6) The circular of the Law Minister dated March 18, 1981, does not suffer
from any infirmity and is not constitutionally invalid. 858. Accordingly, Transferred Case No. 19 of 1981 arising from the writ
petition filed by Shri S. P. Gupta in Allahabad High Court, Transferred
Case No. 21 of 1981 arising from the petition filed by Shri J. L. Kalra and
others in the Delhi High Court, Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 arising
from the petition filed by Shri Iqbal M. Chagla and there others in the
Bombay High Court and Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 arising from the writ
petition filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde in the Delhi High Court are
dismissed. There will be no order as to costs in all the matters. 859. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 in which Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief
Justice of Patna High Court is transposed as petitioner 3 is allowed and
the order dated January 19, 1981, transferring him as Chief Justice of
Madras High Court is quashed and set aside and a mandamus is issued to the
Union of India directing it to forbear from giving effect to the said
order. There would be no order as to costs.860. In view of this decision no
specific order is required to be made in Writ Petition No. 274 of 1981
filed by Miss Lily Thomas, Transferred Case No. 6 of 1981 arising from a
writ petition filed by Shri P. Subramanian in Madras High Court and
Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981 arising from a writ petition filed by Shri
A. Rajappa in the Madras High Court and they accordingly stand disposed of.
There would be no order as to costs. 861. In view of the order quashing and setting aside the order directing
transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh as Chief Justice of Madras High Court, the
Special Leave Petition No. 312 of 1981 filed by Shri Ripudaman Prasad Singh
has become infructuous and would stand disposed of accordingly with no
order as to costs throughout. Pathak, J. - Transferred Case No. 19 of 1981, filed by Shri S. P. Gupta, an
Advocate of the High Court at Allahabad, as a writ petition challenges the
validity of a circular letter dated March 18, 1981 issued by Shri P. Shiv
Shankar, Minister for Law, Justice and Company Affairs in the Union
Government and addressed to the Governor of Punjab and the Chief Ministers
of all the States, except the north-eastern States, requesting them to
obtain the consent of Additional Judges serving in the High Courts to their
appointment as permanent Judges of other High Courts. Such consent was also
required from persons who had already been proposed or may in the future be
proposed, for initial appointment. He contends also that the President has
failed to appoint the necessary number of permanent and Additional Judges
of the High Court of Allahabad in accordance with Article 216 and clause
(1) of Article 224 of the Constitution, and he assails the appointments of
some Additional Judges of the High Court for short terms of six months only
when, according to him, the Additional Judges should have been appointed as
permanent Judges. In particular, he has prayed for a declaration that three
Additional Judges, Mr. Justice Murli Dhar, Mr. Justice A. N. Verma and Mr.
Justice N. N. Mithal be deemed to have been appointed as permanent Judges
and that the circular letter of the Law Minister is void.863. Transferred
Case No. 20 of 1981 filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde, a Senior Advocate of the
Supreme Court as a writ petition in the High Court of Delhi, also assails
the circular letter and the appointments of three Additional Judges, Shri
O. N. Vohra, Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri S. B. Wad for a further period of
three months only. The petitioner prays that the circular letter be
declared void and the posts of Additional Judges in the several High Courts
be converted into permanent posts. Of the three Additional Judges
specifically named, Shri S. N. Kumar has entered appearance and has
supported the case pleaded by the petitioner. 864. Shri J. L. Kalra and a few other advocates filed Transferred Case No.
21 of 1981 as a writ petition in the High Court of Delhi and, inter alia,
they have prayed for mandamus to the Union Government to create an adequate
number of posts of permanent and Additional Judges and to make appointments
to those posts. 865. Four advocates practising in the High Court of Bombay, Shri Iqbal M.
Chagla, Shri C. R. Dalvi, Shri M. A. Rana and Shri Sorab K. J. Modi filed
Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 as a writ petition in the High Court of
Bombay questioning the validity of the aforesaid circular letter dated
March 18, 1981 and have prayed inter alia for a declaration that the
circular letter is ultra vires and void and that the Union Government
should be directed not to act on the consent conveyed by the Additional
Judges. 866. These four cases constitute a group raising substantially common
points for consideration. 867. There is a second group, also consisting of four cases, led by Writ
Petition No. 274 of 1981 filed by Miss Lily Thomas, an Advocate practising
in the Supreme Court of India, under Article 32 of the Constitution. She
challenges the transfer of Shri M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of the Kerala
High Court. Shri M. M. Ismail has filed an affidavit stating that he has
decided not to proceed to Kerala, nor to challenge the validity of the
order of the President transferring him but to proceed on leave preparatory
to retirement by resignation of his office. Shri M. M. Ismail has resigned
since.868. An Advocate, Shri A. Rajappa, practising in the High Court of
Madras, filed Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981. He prays for a declaration
that the order of the President transferring Shri M. M. Ismail from the
High Court of Madras to the High Court of Kerala and Shri K. B. N. Singh,
Chief Justice of the High Court of Patna, to the High Court of Madras is
void. 869. Transferred Case No. 6 of 1981 was filed in the High Court of Madras
by Shri P. Subramanian, praying for the same reliefs as Shri Rajappa in
Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981. 870. Two Advocates, Shri D. N. Pandey and Shri Thakur Ramapati Sinha, filed
Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 in the High Court at Patna challenging the
order of transfer of Shri M. M. Ismail from the High Court of Madras to the
High Court of Kerala and of Shri K. B. N. Singh from the High Court of
Patna to the High Court of Madras. During the pendency of this writ
petition, Shri K. B. N. Singh, who had been impleaded as a respondent, was
transposed as a petitioner. 871. These cases raise constitutional questions of considerable
significance to the judicial system in India. They involve grave issues of
fundamental importance respecting the High Courts and the Judges
constituting them. They deeply affect the Rule of Law and the
administration of justice. The Rule of Law and the administration of justice 872. India is a sovereign socialist secular democratic republic governed by
a written Constitution designed to secure to all its citizens justice,
liberty, equality and fraternity in their various facets. A constitutional
democracy so portrayed has its institutions and values rooted in the Rule
of Law, and that is plainly demonstrated by the provisions of our
constitutional structure and the constitutional philosophy inspiring it.
The vitality of the Rule of Law flows from those roots to the several
branches of the constitutional structure, sustaining and nurturing them and
giving them life and their intended significance.873. The Rule of Law is
the primary principle of our Constitution, and in its universality and
omnipotence it postulates that no one, neither State nor individual, shall
act contrary to the law, and nobody shall be denied right and justice. The
principal organs of the State, the Executive, the Legislature and the
Judiciary are governed by it and operate through it. In its daily task of
adjudicating disputes, the judiciary maintains the Rule of Law and enforces
it. It does so by interpreting the law and applying it and, in appropriate
cases, decreeing its observance. And in adjudging the constitutional
validity of legislation and executive acts, it protects the Rule of Law
embodied in the Constitution. 874. In securing and promoting the resolution of disputes in a legal forum
in accordance with established legal procedure, the administration of
justice ensures a peaceful and orderly progress by a people through
constitutional methods towards the realisation of their aspirations. And if
it is to rule their minds and hearts, the administration of justice must
enjoy their confidence. Public confidence in the administration of justice
is imperative to its effectiveness, because ultimately the ready acceptance
of a judicial verdict alone gives relevance to the judicial system. While
the administration of justice draws its legal sanction from the
Constitution, its credibility rests in the faith of the people.
Indispensable to that faith is the independence of the judiciary. An
independent and impartial judiciary supplies the reason for the judicial
institution; it also gives character and content to the constitutional
milieu. 875. India's statesmen, political leaders, eminent jurists and
representatives of a broad cross-section of our national life were engaged
for about three years in forging a Constitution worthy of India's
greatness. In the fashioning of the provisions relating to the judiciary,
the greatest importance was attached to securing the independence of the
Judges, and throughout the Constituent Assembly Debates the most vigorous
emphasis was laid on that principle. The judiciary in British India had by
and large, for a century of British rule, enjoyed the respect and
confidence of the people for its high reputation of independence and
impartiality. None the less the framers of the Constitution took great
pains to ensure that an even better and more effective judicial structure
was incorporated in the Constitution, one which would meet the highest
expectations of judicial independence. In a land and among a people whose
ancient values stemmed from Truth as a Reality, culminating in the adoption
of a national emblem confirming that creed, they could have done no
less.876. It is pertinent to observe that the High Courts under our
Constitution have been conferred far wider jurisdiction and powers than the
High Courts under the Government of India Act, 1935 . They enjoy not only
the jurisdiction and powers existing before the commencement of the
Constitution but by virtue of Article 226 they have been vested with power
to issue directions, orders or writs to any person or authority, including
any Government within their territorial jurisdiction, and that power is not
limited, as it is in the case of the Supreme Court of India, to the
enforcement of the rights conferred by Part III but extends to any other
purpose. Moreover, by Article 227 of the Constitution the High Courts have
been granted the superintendence not merely over all courts subject to
their appellate jurisdiction but indeed over all courts and tribunals
throughout their territorial jurisdiction. Further, unlike the Government
of India Act the Constitution has not prohibited the High Courts from
enjoying original jurisdiction in matters concerning the revenue or
concerning any act ordered or done in the collection thereof. The framers
of the Constitution evidently intended that the widest amplitude of
remedial action should be available to every person throughout the
territorial jurisdiction of the High Courts. So great was the anxiety to
ensure that the Rule of Law reigned supreme in each State throughout India. 877. It is in this context that the questions raised before us may be
considered. The constitutional scheme concerning the High Courts 878. The judiciary in India consists broadly of the Union judiciary, the
High Courts in the States and the Subordinate Courts in those States.
Chapter V of the Constitution deals with the High Courts and its present
provisions may be briefly surveyed. Article 214 requires that there shall
be a High Court for each State, and Article 216 deals with the constitution
of every High Court. Article 217 lays down the procedure for appointment of
a Judge of the High Court, the circumstances in which the office of Judge
is vacated, the qualifications for appointment, and how the age of a Judge
shall be determined. Article 218 provides for the removal of a Judge from
his office. Article 219 requires a Judge to make or subscribe an oath or
affirmation before he enters upon his office. Article 220 places a
restriction on practice after a person has been appointed a permanent
Judge. Article 221 provides for payment to the Judge of his salary and
entitles him to certain allowances and rights, and the proviso declares
that neither the allowances of a Judge nor his rights in respect of leave
of absence or pension shall be varied to his disadvantage after his
appointment. Article 222 empowers the President to transfer a Judge from
one High Court to another in consultation with the Chief Justice of India. Articles 223 , 224 and 224-A enable the appointment of an acting Chief
Justice, Additional Judges, acting Judges and provide for former Judges to
sit and act as Judges. Article 225 defines the jurisdiction of existing
High Courts and Article 226 extends the jurisdiction to the issue of
directions, orders and writs. Article 227 vests in the High Court the power
of superintendence over all courts and tribunals within its territorial
jurisdiction. Article 228 empowers the High Court to transfer to itself
cases pending in a subordinate court involving a substantial question of
law as to the interpretation of the Constitution. Article 229 provides for
the appointment of officers and servants of the High Court, and Article 230 for the extension of jurisdiction of the High Court to Union territories.
Finally, there is provision by Article 231 for establishing a common High
Court for two or more States or for two or more States and a Union
Territory.879. An important point to note is that Chapter V relating to the
High Courts embodies a single organic scheme. The provisions of that scheme
are interrelated and often interdependent, and in order to appreciate the
true purpose, scope and content of any provision it is necessary to examine
it in the context of the entire constitutional scheme. This is so, whether
the question relates to the appointment of an Additional Judge, or to the
transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another. The constitution of the High Courts and the appointment of the Judges 880. In an modern democracy the supreme power of the State is shared
between the three principal organs, the Executive, the Legislature and the
Judiciary. Each holds a distinct position in the overall constitutional
scheme, and has broadly separate functions and responsibilities from those
vested in the other organs. A Constitution deems the simultaneous
coexistence and effective functioning of all three organs imperative to the
proper working of the constitutional system. It envisages that all three
organs should function continuously according to their true nature and
responsibilities, so that in the totality the constitutional system is held
in constant balance. The constitutional document itself has made full and
detailed provision for the constitution of each of these primary organs of
the State, so that at all times the constitutional system as a whole is in
full operation. 881. Article 216 provides that every High Court shall consist of a Chief
Justice and such other Judges as the President may from time to time deem
it necessary to appoint. Plainly, while the President is vested with the
power to appoint Judges, he is also under a constitutional obligation to
ensure that the High Court is fully constituted. It is fully constituted
when it consists of Judges sufficient in number to regularly cope with and
dispose of the work falling within its jurisdiction. From the terms of Article 216 it is also plain that the constitutional obligation imposed on
the President extends to ensuring from time to time that the High Court
consists of a sufficient number of Judges. The expression "from time to
time" is significant. The responsibility imposed by Article 216 requires
the making of a periodic review of the annual institution of cases and the
pending strength of arrears resulting in a reasonable assessment of the
number of Judges needed in each High Court. It may be observed that serious
injury is possible to a constitutional democracy where this is not done,
and the judiciary remains insufficiently manned and pending cases continue
to accumulate for long periods. A continuing imbalance in the proper
operation of the constitutional system ranging over a long period of time
by reason of one of its primary organs remaining ill-equipped to discharge
its essential responsibilities cannot but be viewed with grave concern.882. Article 216 speaks of Judges generally. A study of the constitutional
scheme embodied in Chapter V indicates that as a general rule the
appointment of permanent Judges is contemplated. They are Judges who are
entitled to continue in office until they attain the age of 62 years, and
whose tenure is fixed by the Constitution itself. They are appointed with
reference to the normal work-load of the Court. A fixed tenure unaffected
by the discretion of the executive safeguards the principle of judicial
independence. In special circumstances, however, and in special
circumstances only, the appointment of Additional Judges or acting Judges
is contemplated under Article 224. An Additional Judge is appointed under
clause (1) of Article 224 where it appears to the President that by reason
of any temporary increase in the business of a High Court or by reason of
arrears of work therein the number of the Judges of that court should be
for the time being increased. The number of Judges is increased only for
time being, and the appointment of an Additional Judge is, therefore,
envisaged for a limited period which, by clause (1) of Article 224 must not
exceed two years. An acting Judge is appointed under clause (2) of Article
224 by the President when any Judge of a High Court other than the Chief
Justice is by reason of absence or for any other reason unable to perform
the duties of his office or is appointed to act temporarily as Chief
Justice; a person so appointed can act as a Judge only until the permanent
Judge has resumed his duties. Both Additional Judges and acting Judges must
be appointed from among duly qualified persons, that is to say, the
qualifications prescribed in Article 217 , and they cannot be appointed to
hold office after attaining the age of 62 years. It will be seen therefore
that Article 216 contemplates Judges who are permanent Judges, Additional
Judges or acting Judges, permanent Judges as a rule and Additional Judges
or acting Judges in exceptional or special circumstances. A separate and
distinct category is that of former Judges of a High Court who under Article 224-A may be requested by the Chief Justice of a High Court, with
the previous consent of the President, to sit and act as a Judge of the
High Court. Such a person does not fall within Article 216 , for he is not a
Judge of the High Court when so sitting and acting. The President does not
appoint him, but only gives his consent to the Chief Justice to request the
former Judge to sit and act as a Judge of the High Court. The process of
appointment embodied in clause (1) of Article 217 does not apply to him. It
is for that reason that express provision has been made in Article 224-A itself that while sitting and acting as a Judge of the High Court the
former Judge will be entitled to such allowances as the President may, by
order, determine and he shall have all the jurisdiction, powers and
privileges, but will not otherwise be deemed to be a Judge of that High
Court.883. It may be pointed out that the Constituent Assembly was not in
favour of appointing Additional or acting Judges, and although in the Draft
Constitution prepared by the Drafting Committee provision was made by Article 198 for the appointment of temporary Judges and by Article 199 for
the appointment of Additional Judges, there was strong opposition to their
inclusion and those provisions were omitted when the Constitution was
finally enacted. 884. The Draft Constitution provided by Article 200 that the Chief Justice
of a High Court could request a former Judge of that court to sit and act
as a Judge of the court. The provisions was retained in the enacted
Constitution as Article 224 , with this difference that before making such
request the Chief Justice had to obtain the previous consent of the
President and further his choice extended not only to a former Judge of
that High Court but also to that of any other High Court. Apparently, it
was felt that by enacting Article 224 there was no need to provide for the
appointment of temporary or Additional Judges. It was subsequently found
that the arrangement was not adequate, and for that reason the Constitution
(Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 brought in the present Article 224 providing
for Additional Judges and acting Judges and simultaneously deleted the
original provisions respecting former Judges. However, the need for former
Judges continued to be felt, and the provision was reintroduced by the
Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 and was numbered as Article
224-A. 885. The procedure for appointing a Judge of a High Court is set forth in
clause (1) of Article 217. A Judge of a High Court is appointed by the
President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the
Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and, in the case of
appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of
the High Court. The appointment of a Judge is an executive act. The power
to appoint is vested in the President, who by virtue of clause (1) of Article 74 is required to act in accordance with the advice of the Council
of Ministers. The President may require the Council of Ministers to
reconsider such advice, either generally or otherwise, but he must act in
accordance with the advice tendered after such reconsideration. The nature
of the power exercised by the President under clause (1) of Article 217 being executive in character, it cannot be identified with the power
exercised under clause (3) of Article 217 in regard to the determination of
the age of a Judge of a High Court. The power exercised under clause (3) of Article 217 has been held been held by this Court in Union of India v.
Jyoti Prakash Mitter to involve a judicial function and which therefore does not fall
within the scope of clause (1) of Article 74.886. While there can be no
doubt that the appointment of a Judge of a High Court lies in the executive
power of the President, it is not an absolute and unfettered power. It is
conditioned by the obligation imposed on the President to consult the Chief
Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of an
appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of
the High Court. The consultation is a constitutional imperative and the
process of consultation must precede the appointment. Three constitutional
functionaries are required to be consulted, the Chief Justice of India and
the Chief Justice of the High Court, who are judicial functionaries, and
the Governor of the State who is the executive head of the State in respect
of which the High Court has jurisdiction. In this, clause (1) of Article
217 makes a marked departure from Section 220 , Government of India Act,
1935. Under Section 220, a permanent Judge of a High Court was appointed in
the absolute discretion of the Crown, and the Additional Judges appointed
in the absolute discretion of the Governor-General. In practice, of course,
the Chief Justice of the High Court was usually consulted, as well as
sometimes a few eminent leaders of the Bar who would not be interested in
the appointment. But when the Constitution was being drafted there was
general agreement that the appointment of a Judge of a High Court should
not be left to the unfettered discretion of the Executive Government. The
Constitution itself now imposed the obligation to consult. Judicial
independence under the Government of India Act, 1935 had been assured by
prescribing a fixed tenure under sub-section (2) of Section 220, and a
Judge could not be removed from his office except on the ground of
misbehaviour or of infirmity of mind or body and on a report by the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council that the Judge ought to be removed.
There was the further stipulation by the proviso to Section 221 that
neither the salary of a Judge nor his rights in respect of leave of absence
or pension could be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. Now,
the independence of the judiciary can be fully safeguarded not by merely
conferring security on the Judges during their term of office but by
ensuring in addition that persons who are independent, upright and of the
highest character are appointed as Judges. Moreover, there is always the
fear that appointments left to the absolute discretion of the appointing
executive could be influenced by party considerations. The framers of the
Constitution apparently had this in mind when they decided to incorporate
the prescription of consultation in the terms set forth in clause (1) of Article 217. As Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel explained in the Constituent
Assembly on June 21, 1947 when presenting the Report on the Principles of a
Model Provincial Constitution :With so many checks and counter-checks these
appointments place the High Court Judges beyond any influence of the
parties or any other influences and beyond any suspicion or doubt of such a
nature. There is thus enough guarantee provided for the independence of the
Judiciary. (CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY DEBATES, Vol. IV, p. 694) 887. As has been observed, clause (1) of Article 217 prescribes that
besides the Governor of the State, the Chief Justice of India and the Chief
Justice of the High Court must be consulted in the appointment of a Judge
of a High Court. Three distinct constitutional functionaries are involved
in the consultative process, and each plays a distinct role, and the nature
and scope of the role are indicated by the character and status of their
respective offices. The Chief Justice of the High Court is the head of the
institution to which the Judge will be appointed. He is, therefore,
particularly qualified to know the needs of the court in the context of its
present constitution and the work which is pending. Generally, an
appointment is made either from the High Court Bar or from the District
Judiciary. In both cases, the Chief Justice can be expected to possess an
intimate knowledge of the legal ability of the person under consideration
and to have a sufficiently accurate estimate of his character, antecedents
and reputation, including his integrity, in the context of the legal
profession or the judicial service, as the case may be, as well as his
potential capacity as a Judge. It is also conveniently possible for him to
obtain a fair measure of information in respect of a member of a District
Bar, should such a member be under consideration. In regard to persons
practising in other courts or members of judicial tribunals it is not
difficult for him to secure adequate information. It is apparently for this
reason that the practice which has prevailed for several years in this
country postulates that it is the Chief Justice of the High Court who
should initiate the process of appointment by suggesting a person for the
office of a Judge. But by virtue of his position in the High Court and the
State, the Chief Justice is also exposed to local influences, and to
prejudice or bias in relation to lawyers appearing before him or judicial
officers who meet him. His assessment can be subjectively affected. The
Chief Justice of India has been brought in, and it is apparent that, in
virtue of the exalted office held by him and the circumstance that he is
far removed from the local pull of influences and the temptations of
partnership, he can be trusted to apply a strictly objective approach to
the recommendation proceeding from the High Court. Besides, the Chief
Justice of India possesses the advantage of viewing the matter from the
superior plane of a national perspective. He is seized with knowledge of
prevailing standards and trends in the different High Courts, and as the
head of the highest court in India exercising appellate jurisdiction over
the High Courts by way of the widest power under Article 136 he would be
cognisant of the need to ensure that the highest quality was maintained in
the appointment of Judges of the High Courts. Indeed, he is expected by the
Constitution to keep himself adequately informed of the affairs of each
High Court. For it is not merely for the purpose of appointing a Judge to
the High Court under clause (1) of Article 217 that he is to be consulted.
The President is also obliged to consult him before he can transfer a Judge
under clause (1) of Article 222 from one High Court to another High Court,
a matter in which the Constitution does not expressly stipulate
consultation even with the Chief Justices of the two High Courts concerned,
the High Court from which the Judge is to be transferred and the High Court
to which his transfer is contemplated. It must also be remembered that in
the determination of the age of a Judge of a High Court under clause (3) of Article 217 it is the Chief Justice of India alone whom the President is
required to consult.888. The part played by the Governor of the State must,
it seems, be limited. The State Government possesses the advantage of being
able to secure information which may not be within the knowledge of the
Chief Justice in regard to the character and integrity of the person
recommended and his local position and affiliations. Besides, as the High
Court is the highest court of the State and the funds for it flow from the
State Exchequer, it is only logical that the State Government should be
allowed a voice in assessing the suitability of the person recommended for
appointment. (LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA, FORUTEENTH REPORT, Vol.1, p. 74) The
State Government, however, can have no role in commenting on his legal
ability, knowledge of law and judicial potential. 889. The President is obliged to consider the advice tendered by the three
constitutional functionaries under clause (1) of Article 217 , and in the
evaluation of the advice from each he must bear in mind that the
appointment under consideration is the appointment of a Judge of a High
Court, that is to say, a judicial appointment. Once that is kept in the
forefront and it is apparent that the person recommended is of desirable
personal character and reputation, the greatest value should be attached to
the advice tendered by the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Chief
Justice of India. The advice tendered by the two judicial functionaries
possesses a quality peculiarly pertinent to the appointment of an able and
efficient Judge. It is, in a sense, 'expert' advice, and where the Chief
Justice of the High Court and the Chief Justice of India agree on the
recommendation it is within reason to hold that the President will
ordinarily accept the recommendation, unless there is strong and cogent
reason for not doing so, which must be a reason directly relevant to the
purpose of the appointment. It may be reiterated that the departure made by
clause (1) of Article 217 of our Constitution from Section 220 of the
Government of India Act, 1935 clearly establishes that the advice tendered
by the judicial functionaries was considered to be a safeguard against
arbitrary appointments and therefore entitled to the greatest weight. It
may be pointed out that appointments in England to the Court of Appeal, to
the Judicial committee of the House of Lords and to the offices of Lord
Chief Justice, and President of the Family Division are made on the advice
of the Prime Minister after consultation with the Lord Chancellor, and the
likelihood that the Prime Minister may depart from the recommendations of
the Lord Chancellor can be contemplated "only in the most exceptional
case". (J. A. G. Griffith : THE POLITICS OF THE JUDICIARY, pp. 17, 18)890.
At the same time I am unable to accept the contention that as the
Constitution stands today the President is obliged in all cases to agree
with a recommendation in which the Chief Justice of the High Court and the
Chief Justice of India have concurred. During the Constituent Assembly
Debates a proposal was made by a member that the appointment of Judges
should require the concurrence of the Chief Justice of India (although that
suggestion was made in connection with the appointment of Judges of the
Supreme Court), but that proposal was not accepted. The Law Commission of
India (Ibid., p. 75) surveyed the machinery for appointing a Judge of a
High Court and considered it desirable that the provision in clause (1) of Article 217 should be altered to provide for" not merely consultation with
the Chief Justice of India but his concurrence in the proposed appointment
". That recommendation has not borne fruit and we are concerned with the
position which prevailed then and continues today. Does the advice given by the Chief Justice of India have primacy over that
rendered by the Chief Justice of the High Court ? 891. A point has been raised whether on a difference of opinion between
them the advice of the Chief Justice of India can be said to enjoy primacy
over that tendered by the Chief Justice of the High Court. Nothing is laid
down on the matter in express terms in clause (1) of Article 217. If by
'primacy' is meant that the opinion of the Chief Justice of India
supersedes that of the Chief Justice of the High Court and can alone be
considered, it is clearly against the provisions of clause (1) of Article
217 , for the clause intends that the President should consult both judicial
functionaries, besides the Governor. The advice of each, the Chief Justice
of India and the Chief Justice of the High Court, has to be considered by
the President. The Chief Justice of India does not sit in appellate
judgment over the advice of the Chief Justice of the High Court, and the
fact that the former has given his advice cannot imply that the advice of
the latter must be ignored. But it must be remembered that the advice by
the Chief Justice of India takes into account not only the primary material
before him but also the assessment made by the Chief Justice of High Court,
and therefore when he renders advice the assessment by the Chief Justice of
the High Court has also been considered by him. In other words, in forming
his opinion and giving his advice, the Chief Justice of India will take all
the facts and circumstances into consideration, including the material
circumstance that the advice of the Chief Justice of the High Court is the
advice of an authority possessing the advantage of direct and intimate
knowledge of the requirements of the Court and generally also of the person
recommended, and thereafter he will advise whether he endorses the
recommendation. In that sense, it can be said that the recommendation of
the Chief Justice of the High Court is screened through the assessment made
by the Chief Justice of India. The screening is a logical result of the
Chief Justice of India being brought in to express his opinion on the
recommendation. In passing, it may be observed that if any material comes
into the possession of the Chief Justice of India which was not before the
Chief Justice of the High Court it should be communicated to the Chief
Justice of the High Court for his comments. When the advice of the Chief
Justice of the High Court and to the Chief Justice of India is placed
before the President, the President will consider both and assess them in
the light of the positions held, and the advantages possessed, by the
respective functionaries in relation to the recommendation, and also bear
in mind that while the Chief Justice of the High Court has the advantage of
proximity in relation to the High Court and generally in assessing the
ability and efficiency of the person recommended, the Chief Justice of
India enjoys the advantageous position of being able to apply a more
objective judgment and also of taking into account a national perspective
and present standards and trends in other High Courts. In the ultimate
analysis, it would be unrealistic to suppose that the advice rendered by
the Chief Justice of India enjoys mere parity with that of the Chief
Justice of the High Court. If the Chief Justice of India was intended to
enjoy equal status merely with the Chief Justice of the High Court in this
regard, it is difficult to appreciate why the Chief Justice of India was
brought in at all, especially when the advice expected of a judicial
functionary for appointing a Judge of a High Court could be obtained from
the Chief Justice of the High Court alone. The constitutional scheme
appears to indicate that in matters concerning the High Courts there is a
close consultative relationship between the President and the Chief Justice
of India. In matters so serious as transfer of Judges and the determination
of the age of Judges, the Constitution has appointed the Chief Justice of
India as the sole functionary to be consulted by the President. In that
capacity, the Chief Justice of India functions under the Constitution as a
constitutional check on the exercise of arbitrary power and protects the
independence of the judiciary.The position relating to Additional Judges
specifically 892. It has been observed earlier that a High Court is intended under Article 216 to consist of permanent Judges as a rule. That would accord
with the principle of judicial independence because thereby security of
tenure is provided. The permanent Judges must be in sufficient number to
cope with the usual work of the High Court. There may, however, be
exceptional circumstances, prevailing over a brief period, which may call
for a temporary accretion to the number of Judges. Provision is found in Article 224 for meeting the exigency. The President has power to appoint
Additional Judges and acting Judges depending on the nature of the
exigency. Clause (1) of Article 224 deals with the appointment of
Additional Judges, and it is this provision with which we are immediately
concerned. An Additional Judge may be appointed where by reason of the
temporary increase in the business of a High Court or by reason of arrears
of work therein it appears to the President that the number of Judges
should for the time being be increased. The two conditions control the
exercise of the power, and if neither is satisfied there can be no case for
appointing an Additional Judge. The increase in the business of the High
Court must be temporary and should be capable of being disposed of within a
short period. Likewise, the arrears of work should be such that they cannot
be expected to endure long. Inasmuch as the period of appointment of
Additional Judges is prescribed as a maximum of two years, it is only where
the disposal of the temporary increase in the business of the High Court or
the pending arrears of work is expected to take about two years at the most
that a case for appointing Additional Judges arises. If the increase in the
business of the High Court or the volume of arrears of work is of a
magnitude which cannot ordinarily be disposed of within two year, it is a
case where the business or work must be regarded as an accretion to the
regular business or work of the High Court, calling for an increase in the
strength of permanent Judges. A person appointed as an Additional Judge
under clause (1) must be a "duly qualified" person. He must be duly
qualified for appointment as a Judge, the qualifications being those
prescribed in Article 217. The appointment of an Additional Judge, like the
appointment of a permanent Judge, must be made in the manner prescribed in
clause (1) of Article 217. The process of consultation contemplated by that
clause comes into play, and it is only after his suitability has been
determined in accordance with that clause that the Additional Judge is
appointed. An Additional Judge discharges functions of the same character
as a permanent Judge. There is no difference whatever between the two in
status and the other incidents of office, except that an Additional Judge
can hold office only for the period specified in the warrant of his
appointment. There is nothing in clause (1) of Article 224 to suggest that
the temporary increase in the business of the High Court or the pending
arrears of work can alone be entrusted to Additional Judges. All that the
clause provides is that either or both conditions can constitute a reason
for temporarily increasing the number of Judges of the High Court. Which
work should be assigned to permanent Judges and which to Additional Judges
is a matter normally falling within the discretion of the Chief Justice of
the High Court. It was observed by this Court in Krishan Gopal v. Prakash
Chandra that" board, I give below some facts.In the first half of 1980, Justice Kumar was
sitting singly and was doing mostly original side matters but also some
appellate side matters. Chance remarks came to my knowledge about his
conduct in Court as well as about his integrity. Somewhere early in May,
1980, one of my colleagues met me and said that he was rather perturbed
about information with him to the effect that if a substantial amount was
paid to Justice Kumar, suits brought by a particular party against an
insurance company would be decided in favour of that party. I had not paid
much attention to the earlier reports but when this was brought to my
notice, and I was at that time not the Chief Justice, I thought to myself
that after the summer vacations, to save Justice Kumar from any
embarrassment, he should be put on a jurisdiction other than original
jurisdiction. Therefore, when as Acting Chief Justice I constituted the
Benches for the second half of 1980 I put Justice Kumar in a Division Bench
to sit on the appellate side and writ jurisdiction. In my view this was a
safe way to finish the rumours if the same were incorrect and thus
safeguard the reputation of a Judge. Surprisingly enough, Justice Kumar did
not release the original suits, regarding which allegations had been made,
from his broad and continued to deal with these suits even in the second
half of 1980. These suits were Suit No. 1409 of 1979, Suit No. 1417 of 1978
and Suit No. 1408 of 1979 filed by Jain Sudh Vanaspati Ltd. and Jain Export
Pvt. Ltd. against the New India Assurance Co. Ltd. In August, 1980, the
same colleague of mine who talked to me earlier and another colleague
mentioned that doubts were being expressed about the integrity of Justice
Kumar vis-a-vis the aforesaid cases and some others. Since I was only
acting as Chief Justice at that time, I did not want to take any
precipitate action. I, however, made discreet inquires from some of the
leading counsel and they in strict confidence supported the allegations.
This made me look into the matter more carefully when to my astonishment I
found that it was not only the three suits mentioned above but that there
were other Single Bench matters also which had been retained by Justice
Kumar on his board despite being put in the Division Bench. There is fairly
a long list of those cases. In some of these the parties involved were rich
and influential including some former princes. After I was appointed Chief
Justice early in January, 1981, I looked into this matter a little more
deeply and made further inquiries. Some of the lawyers were non-committal
and understandably so. Others, however, asserted with some force that
Justice Kumar's reputation was not above-board. I talked to some of my
other colleagues besides the two who had earlier spoken to me. They also
said that unconfirmed reports have been circulating in the Bar which were
not very complimentary to Justice Kumar. This made me conclude that the
reputation for integrity of Justice Kumar was not what should be for a
Judge of the High Court. To my mind, reputation of integrity is just as
important as a person actually being above-board.Then followed reference to
a complaint made by one Mr. Sabir Hussain, Advocate and some data
concerning the disposal of cases by Shri S. N. Kumar as well as allegations
about some incidents in his Court concerning his conduct towards counsel. 901. Some days after receiving this letter of May 7, 1981 from the Chief
Justice of the High Court, the Law Minister recorded a note on May 19, 1981
mentioning therein that before issuing the letter the Chief Justice had
requested him to treat it as a secret document confined to his personal
attention, and that he had given certain reasons for wanting it treated so.
The Law Minister sought advice from his Secretariat whether the
communication of the letter to the Chief Justice of India was unavoidable.
This indicates that the Law Minister was not decided, when he received the
letter, whether he should withhold it from the Chief Justice of India. It
is not apparent what advice he received from his Secretariat, but it seems
that he ultimately decided to honour the request of the Chief Justice of
the High Court to keep the document secret. It appears that neither the Law
Minister nor the Chief Justice of the High Court did ever inform the Chief
Justice of India of this letter of May 7, 1981 and of its contents. A
perusal of the subsequent correspondence confirms that to be so, and indeed
that was affirmed by the Law Minister in his letter of May 29, 1981
addressed to the Chief Justice of the High Court. 902. On May 27, 1981 the Law Minister recorded a note in which inter alia
he said : 903. The first point to consider here is whether the information contained
in the letter dated May 7, 1981 of the Chief Justice of the High Court was
ever made known to the Chief Justice of India. There is no dispute that the
Law Minister, in deference to the wishes of the Chief Justice of the High
Court, did not communicate that information to the Chief Justice of India.
The dispute centres on whether the Chief Justice of the High Court had ever
conveyed the particular information to the Chief Justice of India. In my
view, he never did so. There were no doubt meetings between the Chief
Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the High Court when the question
relating to the integrity of Shri S. N. Kumar was discussed. Originally,
the Chief Justice of the High Court had spoken in the most general terms of
complaint against the Judge. It seems that subsequently on March 26, 1981
the Chief Justice of the High Court told the Chief Justice of India that he
doubted the integrity of Shri S. N. Kumar because " even after Justice
Kumar's allocation was changed from the original side to the appellate
side, he still continued to hear the part-heard cases on the original side. That was the only provision in the Act which could be said to constitute
evidence of the practice of moving a Judge from one High Court to another
court. The clause was included as clause (c) of the proviso to clause (1)
of Article 193 of the Draft Constitution, and there was a suggestion that
another clause be added as follows : 908. In regard to another suggestion that a convention should be
established whereby a proportion of Judges in every High Court could be
recruited from outside the Province, the Drafting Committee observed that
there was no bar to such recruitment or to the transfer of a Judge of a
High Court to another High Court. It seems, however, that subsequently the
Drafting Committee changed its mind and on reconsideration decided to
incorporate an express provision for the transfer of High Court Judges. The
provision empowered the President to transfer a Judge from one High Court
Judges to any other High Court. This provision was amended subsequently by
including therein an obligation to consult the Chief Justice of India in
the matter. Consequently, clause (c) of the proviso to clause (1) of Article 217 was altered so that in place of the word "appointed" the
word"transferred" would be read in conjunction with the words "to any other
High Court". The reasons given by Dr. B. R. Ambedkar in the Constituent
Assembly for proposing this provision may be mentioned :The Drafting
Committee felt that since all the High Courts so far as the appointment of
Judges is concerned form now a central subject, it was desirable to treat
all the Judges of the High Courts throughout India as forming one single
cadre like the I.C.S. and that they should be liable to be transferred from
one High Court to another. If such power was not reserved to the Centre the
administration of justice might become a very difficult matter. It might be
necessary that one Judge may be transferred from one High Court to another
in order to strengthen the High Court elsewhere by importing better talent
which may not be locally available. Secondly, it might be desirable to
import a new Chief Justice to a High Court because it might be desirable to
have a man who is unaffected by local politics and local jealousies. We
thought therefore that the power to transfer should be placed in the hands
of the Central Government. We also took into account the fact that this power of transfer of Judges
from one High Court to another may be abused. A Provincial Government might
like to transfer a particular Judge from its High Court because that Judge
had become very inconvenient to the Provincial Government by the particular
attitude that he had taken with regard to certain judicial matters, or that
he had made a nuisance of himself by giving decisions which the Provincial
Government did not like. We have taken care that in effecting these
transfers no such considerations ought to prevail. Transfers ought to take
place only on the ground of convenience of the general administration.
Consequently, we have introduced a provision that such transfers shall take
place in consultation with the Chief Justice of India who can be trusted to
advise the Government in a manner which is not affected by local or
personal prejudices.The only question, therefore, that remained was whether
such transfer should be made so obligatory as not to involve any provision
for compensation for loss incurred. We felt that, that would be a severe
hardship.... The Drafting Committee felt therefore justified in making
provisions that where such transfer is made it would be permissible for
Parliament to allow a personal allowance to be given to a Judge so
transferred. The statement gave reasons for making the express provision conferring
power to transfer and proceeded on the basis that the transfer could be
made obligatory on the Judge concerned, and that he should be relieved to
some degree against the hardship occasioned thereby provision was made for
payment of compensation. Incidentally, the statement also shows that the
Drafting Committee was under the impression that the Judges of the High
Courts throughout India should be treated as constituting a single cadre
like the Indian Civil Service. The statement can be regarded as of
historical relevance only. Insofar as it records the impression that the
Judges of the High Courts form a single cadre it proceeds on an impression
which, as I shall presently show, is totally erroneous. But it does mention
the reasons which prompted the Drafting Committee to include the provision
for transfer and compensation. The clause providing for the payment of
compensatory allowance to a transferred Judge during the period he served
as a Judge of the other High Court was omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956 but thereafter was reinstated in appropriate language
by the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 . 909. The present Article 222 reads : I think it is necessary to remove the impression that the Judges of the
High Courts constitute a single All-India cadre. The constitutional scheme
embodied in Chapter V envisages each High Court as a distinct entity from
every other High Court. It is a complete, self-contained and self-
sufficient institution, independent of the other and not related to them in
any manner. Every High Court draws its own powers and jurisdiction from the
provisions of the Constitution, and in no way does it share them with the
other High Courts. When a Judge is appointed to a High Court, he is
appointed to that High Court only. It is for that reason clause (c) of the
proviso to clause (1) of Article 217 enacts that the office of a Judge
shall be vacated by his being transferred to any other High Court. He is
the holder of a distinct office, that of a Judge of the High Court to which
he is appointed. It will be noticed that the consultative process envisaged
in clause (1) of Article 217 involved in his appointment requires the
President to consult the Chief Justice of the High Court to which his
appointment is proposed and the Governor of the State concerned, besides
the Chief Justice of India. The Chief Justice of the High Court is
consulted because, as has been observed earlier, he is intimately concerned
with the appointment of a competent Judge to meet the particular
requirements of his Court. The Governor of the State likewise is consulted
because he is concerned about the quality of the administration of justice
at its highest level in the State. In the case of both functionaries, they
are involved with the appointment in order to ensure that the Judge
appointed is most suitable in relation to that High Court. The interests
and needs of that High Court alone occupy the mind of these two
functionaries. A person may be found unsuitable, by reason of association
or other links, for being a Judge of the particular High Court, while he
may be free form that embarrassment in respect of the other High Courts. It
may be observed that the Presidential warrant appointing the Judge
specifically mentions that the appointment is as a Judge of the High Court
named therein. Moreover, the prescribed Form itself of the oath, which the
Judge must make and subscribe before entering upon his office shows clearly
that the appointment is confined to that High Court. We have been referred
to Hira Singh v. Jai Singh 1937 AIR(All) 588 : ILR 1937 All 880 : 1937
All(LJ) 659, 840 : 171 IC 153), where a full Bench of the Allahabad High
Court held that an Additional Judge of that court who had already taken
oath on such appointment was not obliged to take oath again on his
appointment as a permanent Judge. The case is clearly distinguishable, for
it was one where the Judge continued to be a Judge of that court. He had
not been transferred to another High Court. Under our Constitution, the
Form reads :I, A.B., having been appointed Chief Justice (or a Judge) of
the High

Court at (or of). . . . . . . . . . . . . do swear in the name of God

solemnly affirm

that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as
by law established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of
India, that I will duly and faithfully and to the best of my ability,
knowledge and judgment perform the duties of my office without fear or
favour, affection or ill will and that I will uphold the Constitution and
the laws. (Form No. VIII in the Third Schedule to the Constitution )

There is no All-India Service of High Court Judges. Article 214 speaks of a
High Court for each State, and Article 216 plainly declares that the High
Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and other Judges. The Chief Justice
is a Chief Justice of that High Court only and so are the other Judges. The
Judges of a High Court owe their responsibilities and discharge their
functions in relation to, that High Court only. They have no constitutional
connection and no legal relationship with the body of Judges of any other
High Court. This position, in my view, cannot admit of any doubt. 910. That being the position how then can the transfer of a Judge from one
High Court to another High Court be viewed in law ? A Judge appointed to a
High Court is entitled to continue as a Judge of that High Court until he
attains the age of 62 years, unless of course he resigns his office or is
removed from it. His transfer to another High Court involves the vacation
of his office in that High Court, that is to say, his appointment as a
Judge of that High Court stands terminated. This is confirmed by clause (c)
of the proviso to clause (1) of Article 217. Simultaneously, without
anything more the transfer affects his appointment to the other High Court
to which he is being sent. An order of transfer under clause (1) of Article
222 therefore, is a transaction in two parts, the termination of the
appointment as a Judge of the original High Court and the simultaneous
appointment as a Judge of the other High Court. That view is supported by
the circumstance that the power of transfer is vested in the President. It
is significant in this connection that the President is also the appointing
authority in the case of appointments made under clause (1) of Article 217 and is also vested with the power of removal in cases falling under Article
218 read with clause (4) of Article 124. Therefore it was necessary that
the authority who has been otherwise vested with the power to appoint a
Judge and to terminate his appointment should also be the authority to
transfer him. It may be added that inasmuch as the transfer constitutes an
appointment of the Judge to the other High Court, Article 219 comes into
play and, therefore, the transferred Judge must, before he enters upon his
office in that High Court, make or subscribe an oath or affirmation
according to the prescribed Form.911. It is necessary to observe that the
appointment to the other High Court involved in the order of transfer is an
appointment attributable to the power under clause (1) of Article 222 , and
cannot be regarded as an appointment under clause (1) of Article 217. Whereas in the latter the Constitution requires consultation with the Chief
Justice of India, the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the
High Court, in the case of an appointment by transfer the Chief Justice of
India alone is involved in the consultation. The framers of the
Constitution evidently considered it unnecessary to include other
functionaries. If they had to be included, they would have consisted of the
Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of the High Court to which the
Judge was originally appointed as well as the Governor of the State and the
Chief Justice of the High Court to which the Judge was being transferred.
It was apparently considered that the consultation with the Chief Justice
of India would suffice to take into account the relative interests of the
two High Courts and the President would take into account the interests of
the two States concerned. In this regard, while there is no constitutional
requirement expressly mentioned in clause (1) of Article 222 , it is always
open to the President and the Chief Justice of India to make necessary
enquiries of the two States and the two High Courts affected by the
transfer. The merit of involving the Chief Justice of India alone in the
consultative process under clause (1) of Article 222 lies in this that the
process of consultation can be more expeditiously completed and is to be
preferred to the inevitably protracted process called for by a
constitutional requirement involving two States and two High Courts.
Whereas the Chief Justice of India can informally ascertain the views of
the Chief Justices of the High Courts and satisfy himself whether he should
advise in favour of the transfer, the President can similarly ascertain the
views of the two States. The need for a formal presentation before the
President of advice from the Chief Justices of the two High Courts, from
the Governors of the two States and from the Chief Justice of India is thus
eliminated.912. I shall now examine whether the power to transfer under
clause (1) of Article 222 can be exercised only after securing the consent
of the Judge concerned or even without his consent. As I have observed, the
power to transfer was not expressly conferred by any provision under the Government of India Act, 1935 . What was done was to clarify that when a
Judge appointed to one High Court was thereafter appointed to another High
Court, he must be deemed to have vacated his office in the original High
Court. In other words, it was made clear that on his subsequent appointment
he could not be regarded as a Judge of two High Courts. That, it seems to
me, was the intent of the speeches made by the Earl of Munster in the House
of Lords and the Secretary of State for India, Mr. L. S. Amery, and Mr.
Pethick Lawrence in the House of Commons when the India (Miscellaneous
Provisions) Bill was introduced in the two Houses. Although they spoke of
"the transfer" of High Court Judges, it is apparent that the word was used
in the popular sense. It was not used in the particular sense of an
obligatory transfer. There was no provision then in the Government of India
Act for the appointment to another High Court of a sitting Judge without
his consent. Indeed, the word used in clause (c) of the proviso to sub-
section (2) of Section 220 of the Act was "appointed". That was also the
word used in the original clause (c) of the proviso to clause (1) of Article 217 of our Draft Constitution. It was only when Article 222 was
added that the word "appointed" was substituted by the word "transferred".
The difference between the two words" appointment"and" transferred "in our
Constitution is borne out by the different terms used in clause (c) of the
proviso to clause (1) of Article 217 , where it is declared that the office
of a Judge shall be vacated by his being "appointed" by the President to be
a Judge of the Supreme Court or on his being "transferred" by the President
to any other High Court. It is true that sub-clause (iii) of clause (b) of
paragraph 11 of the Second Schedule to the Constitution, which defines
"actual service", speaks of" joining time on transfer from a High Court to
the Supreme Court or one High Court to another. "To my mind, that plainly
is an error in the drafting of the provision. It would seem that some of
the provisions in the Schedules have not been framed with the care they
deserved, because in another part, Form IV in the Third Schedule, the Form
of Oath or Affirmation to be taken by the Chief Justice of India before
entering upon his office refers to him as the Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of India. In clause (1) of Article 124 , and throughout the other
provisions in the body of the Constitution, he is described as the Chief
Justice of India.913. It seems to me that clause (1) of Article 222 was
specifically enacted in our Constitution for the purpose of empowering the
President to transfer a Judge without necessarily securing his consent. The
power was intended to be in the widest terms and subject only to the
obligation to consult the Chief Justice of India. If transfer was
conditioned further by the imperative of securing the consent of the Judge
concerned, then having regard to past practice there was in fact no need to
enact Article 222. A Judge can always be removed from one High Court to
another with his consent. That had not infrequently been done during the
ninety years of the High Courts in British India, and there was no reason
why it could not have continued in the High Courts under our Constitution.
But the framers of the Constitution intended a departure from that
position. By clause (1) of Article 222 in the terms enacted, they did not
include the condition that the Judge concerned must consent to his
transfer. 914. It was contended before us that clause (1) of Article 222 was
incorporated in the Constitution so that the Chief Justice of India could
be brought in for the purpose of ensuring that the transfer was effected in
the public interest only and not for the personal benefit of a Judge. The
argument is without substance. Public power of this nature can be employed
only in the public interest. It may be that incidentally the transfer may
advantage the Judge, but in every case the primary ground for transfer must
be public interest. It seems to me clear that unless clause (1) of Article
222 had been enacted, it was not possible for the President to transfer a
Judge from one High Court to another without his consent. If a transfer
only with consent was contemplated, it would have been sufficient to rely
on the power of the President under clause (1) of Article 217 to appoint
the Judge to another High Court, and clause (c) of the proviso to clause
(1) of Article 217 would remove any doubt that by such appointment the
Judge vacated his office in the original High Court. There is no need to
confer power in express terms to do a specific act which can be done with
the consent of the parties under the umbrella of a general power.915. It is
worthy of note that where the element of consent was considered necessary,
it was expressly mentioned in the Constitution. The proviso to Article 224-
A imposes that condition when a former Judge of a High Court is requested
by the Chief Justice of a High Court to sit and act as a Judge of the High
Court. So also is the provision in Article 128 in respect of former Judges
of the Supreme Court, the Federal Court or of a High Court requested to sit
and act as a Judge of the Supreme Court. In contrast, when under clause (1)
of Article 127 a Judge of a High Court is requested to sit as an ad hoc
Judge of the Supreme Court when a quorum of the Judges of the Supreme Court
is not available, the Judge of the High Court is bound to accept the
request and his consent is not necessary. Reference may also be made to the
position in England where under Section 4 of the Supreme Court of
Judicature (Consolidation) Act, 1925 the High Court is divided into three
division, the Chancery Division, the King's Bench Division and the Probate,
Divorce and Admiralty Division. The puisne Judges of the High Court are
attached to the several Divisions by a direction of the Lord Chancellor.
Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Act provides that any such Judge may
with his consent be transferred by a like direction from one of the
Divisions to another. It will be noticed that although the three Divisions
are part of the same High Court, none the less the statute expressly
insists that on a Judge being attached to one of the Divisions he can be
transferred to another Division only with his consent. The provision was
reiterated in sub-section (4) of Section 1 of the Supreme Court of
Judicature (Amendment) Act, 1944. 916. It is contended that the element of consent must be imported in clause
(1) of Article 222 because a fresh oath or affirmation is necessary when a
Judge enters upon his office in the other High Court, and whether he will
make and subscribe such oath or affirmation rests necessarily within his
volition. To my mind that consideration does not necessarily lead to the
conclusion sought to be inferred. If a transferred Judge refuses to make
and subscribe such oath or affirmation he could be regarded, it seems, as
guilty of misbehaviour warranting his removal.917. But the principal ground
in support of the submission that a transfer of a Judge of High Court can
only be with his consent lies in the argument that such a transfer amounts
to a punishment of the Judge without trial and therefore the principal of
judicial independence is gravely prejudiced. That submission, to my mind,
must be tested by an examination of the grounds on which a transfer is
permissible. Clause (1) of Article 222 does not mention the grounds on
which the Judge may be transferred. Plainly, inasmuch as it is in the
nature of a public power vested in a functionary of the State, it can be
exercised only in the public interest. Public interest is the touchstone on
which every transfer must be tested. That is the necessary limitation
implicitly circumscribing the exercise of power under clause (1) of Article 222. All grounds which can be said to fall within that rubric may be
entertained. But no ground which falls within the scope of Article 218 read
with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 can be brought within that scope.
The grounds envisaged by those provisions are "proved misbehaviour or
incapacity". In relation to them express provision has been made by the
Constitution, the grounds being so grave that if established they can
result in one penalty only, that of removal of the Judge. 918. The removal of a Judge is a matter of the greatest seriousness. It
affects not only the Judge personally but also, in a larger sense, affects
the general reputation of the Judiciary. Consequently, the Constitution, by
clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 and by the Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 has made the removal subject to a constitutional and statutory process
consisting of several stages at each of which the action for removal is
screened. The Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 requires a notice of motion for
presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of a Judge.
The notice must be signed by a hundred members of the House of the People,
where notice is given in that House and by fifty members of the Council of
States where the notice is given in the Council. The Speaker or the
Chairman, as the case may be, may consult such person as he thinks fit and
after considering such material, if any, as may be available to him, he may
either admit the motion or refuse to admit the same. If the motion is
admitted, the Speaker or the Chairman, will then constitute a Committee for
the purpose of making an investigation into the grounds on which the
removal is sought. The Committee consists of three members, one chosen from
among the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court, the other
being a Chief Justice of a High Court and the third being a distinguished
jurist. The Committee is required to frame definite charges against the
Judge, and such charges together with the statement of the grounds must be
communicated to the Judge, who will be given a reasonable opportunity of
presenting a written statement of defence. Where it is alleged that the
Judge is unable to discharge the duties of his office efficiently due to
any physical or mental incapacity and the allegation is denied, the
Committee may arrange for the medical examination of the Judge by a Medical
Board appointed by the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Chairman. The
Medical Board undertakes the medical examination of the Judge and submits a
report to the Committee. During the investigation, the Committee is obliged
to give reasonable opportunity to the Judge of cross-examining witnesses,
adducing evidence and of being heard in his defence. At the conclusion of
the investigation, the Committee is required to submit its report to the
Speaker or the Chairman, as the case may be. If the report of the Committee
finds that the Judge is not guilty of any misbehaviour or does not suffer
from any incapacity no further steps can be taken in either House of
Parliament and the motion pending in the House cannot be proceeded with. If
the report finds that the Judge is guilty, then the motion together with
the report of the Committee is taken up for consideration by the House or
the Houses in which it is pending. If the motion is adopted by each House
of Parliament in accordance with clause (4) of Article 124 read with Article 218 , then the misbehaviour or incapacity of the Judge is deemed to
have been proved and an address praying for the removal of the Judge must
be presented to the President by each House of Parliament in the same
session in which the motion has been adopted. It is clear that where an
allegation of misbehaviour or incapacity is levelled against a Judge, he
has the opportunity to defend himself including the right to lead evidence
as well as to cross-examine witnesses produced against him. At every stage
of the process the statute provides for careful consideration whether the
motion for removal should be continued. Allegations which are so grave as
to attract such detailed procedure and which afford full opportunity to the
Judge to defend himself cannot possibly be made a ground for transfer of
the Judge. In my view, the grounds of misbehaviour or incapacity are
clearly ruled out from the scope of clause (1) of Article 222. I am
convinced that the transfer of a Judge under that provision cannot be made
for the purpose of punishing him. It was never intended that the power
should be exercised to impose a penalty by way of punishment. To permit
that would be to permit a violation of the principle of judicial
independence, for the only grounds envisaged by the Constitution for
punishment are grounds constituting misbehaviour and the penalty for which
is removal from office.919. In the transfer of a Judge from one High Court
to another the principle of judicial independence and the rights of the
Judge are protected by two safeguards. The first is that incorporated in
clause (1) of Article 222 , that is to say, the obligation of the President
to consult the Chief Justice of India. The Constitution expects the Chief
Justice of India to ensure in the process of consultation that the power to
transfer is not used arbitrarily against a Judge of a High Court, that it
is not employed as a disguise for punishing him, and that, even if the
ground for the proposed transfer is made out, it will be in the public
interest to effect the transfer. In this regard, the consultation with the
Chief Justice of India must, in my opinion, extend to the entire gamut of
the grounds on which the transfer is proposed, even where the grounds are
incorporated in a policy. The protection afforded to the Judge by the
obligation of consultation with the Chief Justice of India is intended to
be a complete protection. It must be borne in mind that the Judge concerned
is entitled to continue in the High Court to which he has been appointed
for the full period of his tenure. It has already been observed that the
transfer can be effected without the consent of the Judge. It is,
therefore, necessary to construe the scope of the safeguard of consultation
in its fullest comprehension. To properly discharge his responsibility in
the matter, the Chief Justice of India must consider himself obliged to
entertain not only the material furnished by the President to him but he
must also make as full an enquiry as he conveniently can for the purpose of
determining whether a transfer should be advised. In that process, he must
determine not only whether the grounds on which the transfer proposed are
made out but he must also consider as relevant the personal circumstance so
the Judge concerned. It is ultimately in the public interest that the
personal circumstances of the Judge should be taken into consideration, for
there may be a case where they may hinder the proper discharge of his
duties in the High Court to which he is transferred. In that connection it
is only right that the Chief Justice of India should satisfy himself by
enquiring from the Judge himself about what he has to say in the matter of
his transfer, both in regard to the grounds for the transfer as well as in
regard to any hardship or inconvenience which may be suffered by him by
such transfer. As a sitting Judge he is entitled to be informed of the
proposed transfer and of the grounds therefor because his right to continue
as a Judge of the High Court is placed in jeopardy. It is a very different
case from the transfer of an officer who is a member of a service and is
ordinarily transferable. As has been observed earlier, a Judge of a High
Court is not a member of any All-India Service of Judges. It may be made
clear at this stage that the Judge does not have a right of hearing in the
sense in which that right is generally understood in law. The scope and
degree of inquiry by the Chief Justice of India must rest in his
discretion. All that is necessary is that the Judge should know why his
transfer is proposed and he should be able to acquaint the Chief Justice of
India of any reason why he should not be transferred. It may also be added
that the process of consultation envisaged under clause (1) of Article 222 requires that all the material in the possession of the President must be
placed before the Chief Justice of India, as well as such other information
which he may need and may call for in order to render his advice.920. The
advice tendered by the Chief Justice of India should ordinarily be accepted
by the President and in this regard the observations made in Union of India
v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth (Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth will
be fully attracted. Chandrachud, J., as he then was, speaking for the
majority of the Court, relying on what Bhagwati and Krishna Iyer, JJ. said
in Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab observed : (SCC pp. 228-29, para 41)

[T]hat in all conceivable cases, consultation with the Chief Justice of
India should be accepted by the Government of India and that the Court will
have an opportunity to examine if any other extraneous circumstances have
entered into the verdict of the Executive if it departs from the counsel
given by the Chief Justice of India : The transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice, High Court of Patna 924. Shri K. B. N. Singh was a Judge of the High Court of Patna from
September 15, 1966. He was appointed Chief Justice of that Court and
assumed charge on July 19, 1976. On January 19, 1981 the President issued a
notification, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India,
transferring Shri K. B. N. Singh as Chief Justice of the High Court of
Madras with effect from the day he assumed charge of that office. The
transfer has been challenged in Writ Petition No. 274 of 1981 and
Transferred Cases Nos. 2, 6 and 24 of 1981. The principal contentions of
the petitioners are firstly, that there has been no effective consultation
as envisaged by clause (1) of Article 222 inasmuch as all the material
considered by the Chief Justice of India was not placed before the
President, and the process of consultation was not marked by fair
procedure, and, secondly, that the transfer cannot be said to have been
made in the public interest, and if different considerations have prevailed
with the President and the Chief Justice of India, neither can be described
as related to public interest.925. An examination of the several affidavits
and of the correspondence between the Government and the Chief Justice of
India discloses the following facts : He mentioned that the transfer of some of the Chief Justices had been
engaging his attention for the past few months and in this connection he
had made personal enquiries and had met several lawyers and many Judges of
the High Courts concerned. He recommended that Shri K. D. Sharma, then
acting as Chief Justice of the High Court of Rajasthan, should be
transferred as Chief Justice of the High Court of Kerala, and Shri K. B. N.
Singh should be transferred from the High Court of Patna as the Chief
Justice of the Rajasthan High Court. It appears that it was then realised
that certain difficulties would arise if Shri K. D. Sharma was transferred
to the High Court of Kerala. In a letter to the Prime Minister written on
December 18, 1980 the Chief Justice of India proposed that the transfer of
Shri K. B. N. Singh from Patna to Rajasthan should await further
consideration. After a telephone talk with the Law Minister, the Chief
Justice of India wrote on December 20, 1980 proposing the transfer of Shri
M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of the High Court of Madras, as Chief Justice
of the High Court of Kerala and the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh as
Chief Justice of the High Court of Madras. On January 5, 1981, the Chief
Justice of India telephoned Shri K. B. N. Singh and informed him of the
likelihood of his transfer to Madras. He asked him if he had anything to
say in the matter. Shri K. B. N. Singh wished to know why he was being
transferred and the Chief Justice of India informed him that it was
"Government policy" and that it was proposed to transfer Shri M. M. Ismail
from Madras and it was necessary to appoint an experienced and senior Chief
Justice in his place. Shri K. B. N. Singh informed the Chief Justice of
India on the telephone that his mother was bedridden and she was not in a
position to go with him to Madras. No other personal difficulty was
disclosed. Shri K. B. N. Singh also observed that if his transfer was
insisted on he would prefer to resign. The Chief Justice of India requested
him not to act in haste but to give the matter close thought, and he added
that he was also making a note of the difficulty mentioned by him and" it
will have to be taken into consideration before a final decision was taken. They are Advocates practising in the High Court of Bombay. Respondents 1
and 2 in this case are the Union Law Minister and the Union of India.
Respondents 3 to 12 are the Additional Judges of the High Court of Bombay
appointed under Article 224(1) of the Constitution The above petition is
filed questioning the validity of a circular letter dated March 18, 1981
addressed by the Union Law Minister to the Governor of Punjab and Chief
Ministers (by name) (except the North-Eastern States) by which they were
requested to obtain the consent of Additional Judges working in the High
Courts to their appointment as Judges of the High Courts other than those
in which they were Additional Judges on the lines indicated in the said
circular letter. A request was also made in that letter to obtain consent
to appointment as Judges from persons who had been or may in further "be
proposed by you"(that is by the Chief Ministers). It is alleged that
aggrieved by the said letter, which according to them, amounted to a direct
attack on the independence of the judiciary, which was a basic feature of
the Constitution, the members of the Advocates' Association of Western
India met at a Special General Meeting on April 3, 1981 and passed
resolutions inter alia condemning the said letter as subversive of judicial
independence and asking the Union Government to withdraw the said letter.
The Bombay Bar Association also passed similar resolutions at its
Extraordinary General Meeting on April 7, 1981. On April 14, 1981 it is
alleged that the Managing Committee of the Bombay Incorporated Law Society
(representing the Solicitors practising in Bombay who were also advocates)
passed similar resolutions and also authorised petitioner 4 to join as a
petitioner in this petition. The petitioners have inter alia alleged that
the impugned letter which affected about one hundred Additional Judges
currently working in the various High Courts and which threatened them with
'transfer' to High Courts other than the one in which they were working was
outside the scope of Article 222 of the Constitution which provided for
such transfers and amounted to an unwarranted executive interference with
the judiciary. They have also alleged that the manner of appointment of
Additional Judges under Article 224(1) of the Constitution was a clear
abuse of that provision which empowered the President to appoint Additional
Judges to clear off arrears in High Courts but not where the arrears were
continuously rising. The petitioners have prayed for, among other reliefs,
a declaration that the impugned letter of the Union Law Minister was ultra
vires and void and that the Union Government should be directed not to act
on the consent given by any of the Additional Judges. By a counter-
affidavit filed by Shri K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary, Department of
Justice, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, New Delhi, the Union
Government has opposed the petition. The Union Government inter alia has
questioned the locus standi of the petitioners to file the petition and has
further pleaded that by the impugned letter, the Union Government merely
sought the consent of the Additional Judges and others who had been or who
were to be proposed for appointment as Judges to the effect that they were
willing to be initially appointed as Judges in other High Courts. It is
stated that the consent of the Additional Judges has not been sought for
their transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution. It is denied that
there was any attempt to interfere with the independence of the judiciary.
The policy of appointment of Judges in High Courts from outside is
justified on various grounds set out in the affidavit. Accordingly the
Union Government has prayed that the petition may be dismissed.953.
Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981 was originally filed in the High Court of
Delhi under Article 226 of the Constitution by Shri V. M. Tarkunde, Senior
Advocate of the Supreme Court Bar after the Law Minister's letter of March
18, 1981 was written and three Additional Judges of the Delhi High Court
Sarva Shri O. N. Vohra, S. N. Kumar and S. B. Wad who had originally been
appointed as Additional Judges for a period of two years with effect from
March 7, 1979 were appointed as Additional Judges for a period of three
months only from March 7, 1981. In addition to the declaration that the
impugned letter of the Law Minister was unconstitutional and void, Shri V.
M. Tarkunde has requested the Court, among other prayers, to issue a writ
in the nature of mandamus to the Union Government (i) to convert the posts
of Additional Judges into permanent posts in various High Courts
commensurate with the regular business of the High Courts and arrears in
consultation with the Chief Justice of the concerned High Court and the
Cheif Justice of India and (ii) to convert 12 posts of Additional Judges in
the Delhi High Court into permanent posts having regard to the regular
business and the arrears of that Court. In the course of the petition the
propriety and constitutionality of appointing the three Additional Judges
referred to above for a period of three months only from March 7, 1981 have
been questioned. The other allegations in the petition more or less are
similar to the allegations made in the petition of Bombay lawyers. It is
not necessary to go into certain events and proceedings that took place
till the counter-affidavit was filed in this case on July 22, 1981 except
the fact that Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar had ceased to be Judges
with effect from June 7, 1981 as they had not been appointed as Additional
Judges for any further period and that Shri S. B. Wad had been appointed as
an Additional Judge from June 7, 1981 for one year more. In the counter-
affidavit filed by Shri K. C. Kankan, Deputy Secretary to the Government of
India, the petition is opposed. This counter-affidavit contains more or
less similar pleas contained in the counter-affidavit filed in the petition
filed by the Bombay lawyers and in addition to them certain further pleas
are raised here in justification of the action taken by the Union
Government in not appointing Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar as
Additional Judges for a further period and in appointing only Shri S. B.
Wad as stated above. The specific plea with regard to the non-appointment
of Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar and the appointment of Shri S. B.
Wad runs thus :(w) & (x) Shri Justice Vohra, Shri Justice Kumar and Shri
Justice Wad were appointed for a further period of three months from March
7, 1981. The short-term appointment was made to enable the Government to
take a final view having regard to the complaints that had been received
against some of them after consultation with the constitutional
authorities. The petitioner's statement that both the Chief Justice of the
Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India had recommended the
appointment of these three Judges for a further period of two years is
untrue and incorrect. It is strange as to how the petitioner could claim
knowledge of the recommendations of the Chief Justice of India and Chief
Justice of Delhi High Court. After careful consideration of the material
available with it and after taking into account the views expressed by the
Chief Justice of India and Chief Justice of Delhi High Court and after
giving full consideration to the views of both, Government decided not to
give appointments for a further term to Shri Justice O. N. Vohra and Shri
Justice S. N. Kumar on the expiry of their term on June 6, 1981. Shri
Justice Wad was, however, appointed for a further period of one year from
June 7, 1981. It is neither necessary nor advisable to disclose to the Additional Judges
the reasons for their short-term appointments or for their non-appointment
since this would bring them within the pale of public controversy and would
involve disclosure of material which necessarily has to be kept
confidential. There is no breach of the principles of natural justice in
this. 954. It may be mentioned here that Shri O. N. Vohra has remained absent in
these proceedings but Shri S. N. Kumar has filed a separate affidavit and
has presented his case through a counsel. In the course of his affidavit in
addition to the pleas supporting the pleas urged by Shri V. M. Tarkunde, he
has questioned the validity of the proceedings culminating in not
appointing him as an Additional Judge after June 7, 1981. The allegations
made by Shri S. N. Kumar are controverted by an additional affidavit filed
on behalf of the Union Government in this case.955. Transferred Case No. 21
of 1981 was filed in the High Court of Delhi by Shri J. L. Kalra and
others, all advocates, under Article 226 of the Constitution. The
petitioners have prayed for the issue of a writ in the nature of mandamus
to the Union Government to make an assessment of the number of permanent
and Additional Judges required for the High Court of Delhi having regard to
its current business and the accumulated arrears, to create such number of
posts of permanent and Additional Judges as may be necessary and to make
appointments to those posts. The other reliefs asked in this petition are
substantially the same as the reliefs prayed in Transferred Case No. 20 of
1981 filed by Shri V. M. Tarkunde. The allegations in the petition and in
the counter-affidavit in these two cases are also substantially the same.
This petition, however, emphasises the fact that Article 224(1) of the
Constitution is being used for a purpose other than the one for which it is
intended. The issues arising out of this petition are the same as those
arising in Transferred Case No. 20 of 1981. 956. Transferred Case No. 19 of 1981 was filed under Article 226 of the
Constitution before the High Court of Allahabad by Shri S. P. Gupta,
Advocate, practising at Allahabad. Aggrieved by the circular letter dated
March 18, 1981 which is impugned in Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981 filed
by the Bombay lawyers, the non-determination of the necessary strength of
permanent and Additional Judges of the High Court of Allahabad as required
by Articles 216 and 224(1) of the Constitution, the appointment of some
Additional Judges of the High Court of Allahabad for short terms of six
months on the expiry of the period specified in their warrants of
appointment under Article 224(1) , the alleged misuse of Article 224(1) of
the Constitution by the Union Government in making appointments of
Additional Judges where permanent Judges had to be appointed and several
other matters urged in the petition, the petitioner filed the above
petition requesting the Court to issue appropriate directions having regard
to the submissions made in the petition and principally he has prayed for a
declaration that the three Additional Judges - Mr. Justice Murlidhar, Mr.
Justice A. N. Verma and Mr. Justice N. N. Mithal must be deemed to have
been appointed as permanent Judges under the warrants already issued to
them and that the circular letter of the Law Minister is void. The reliefs
prayed for by the petitioner more or less are identical with the reliefs in
Transferred Case No. 22 of 1981. The allegations made in the petition and
in the counter-affidavit will be dealt with in the course of the judgment
as many of them are common to all these cases.957. Writ petition No. 274 of
1981 is filed by Miss Lily Thomas, an Advocate practising in the Supreme
Court of India under Article 32 of the Constitution. She has sought for a
declaration that the transfer of Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of
the High Court of Madras as the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court is
unconstitutional. She has also stated that the Union Government had acted
illegally in not appointing Mr. Justice Subramanian Poti, the seniormost
Judge of the Kerala High Court as the Chief Justice of that Court in the
vacancy created by the appointment of Mr. Justice Balakrishna Eradi, Chief
Justice of the Kerala High Court, as a Judge of this Court. She has
contended inter alia that Article 222 of the Constitution which provides
for transfer of Judges does not apply to Chief Justices and that in any
event Article 222 of the Constitution cannot be used to defeat the claim of
the seniormost Judge of a High Court to become the Chief Justice of that
Court whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of the Chief Justice. She has
pleaded that the transfer of Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail had not been made in
the public interest and when such transfer is made without consent of the
Judge concerned would be unconstitutional. On behalf of the Union of India
it is pleaded that the transfer had been made in consultation with the
Chief Justice of India in the public interest after taking into
consideration all relevant matters. It is pleaded that Article 222 applies
to Chief Justices also. 958. Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail who has been impleaded as respondent 2 in
this petition has filed an affidavit, the third paragraph of which reads
thus : It has relied on Article 222 of the Constitution in support of the impugned
orders of transfer. It is stated that the transfers had been ordered in the
public interest in consultation with the Chief Justice of India who is the
only authority to be consulted under Article 222 and that the procedure
prescribed under Article 217(1) of the Constitution need not be followed
when a transfer is ordered under Article 222. The plea that the transfers
have interfered with the independence of the judiciary is also denied. The
allegation that the impugned orders had been made mala fide is also denied
in the counter-affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India.961.
Transferred Case No. 6 of 1981 was originally filed under Article 226 of
the Constitution before the High Court of Madras by Shri P. Subramanian.
The allegations and prayers made in this petition and the counter-affidavit
field by the Union of India are substantially the same as those in
Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981 filed by Shri A. Rajappa. 962. Transferred Case No. 24 of 1981 was originally filed in the High Court
of Patna under Article 226 of the Constitution by two Advocates - Shri P.
N. Pandey and Shri Thakur Ramapati Sinha questioning the validity of the
order of transfer of Mr. Justice M. M. Ismail, Chief Justice of the Madras
High Court, as the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court and the order of
transfer of Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of the Patna High
Court as the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court. The allegations in
this petition are substantially the same as those in Writ Petition No. 274
of 1981, in Transferred Case No. 2 of 1981 and in Transferred Case No. 6 of
1981. But during the pendency of this petition in this Court, Mr. Justice
K. B. N. Singh who had been impleaded as a respondent was transposed as a
petitioner by an order of this Court. Thereafter Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh
has filed an affidavit inter alia stating that his transfer was not in the
public interest and that the transfer had been ordered on irrelevant and
insufficient grounds. These allegations have been denied by the Union of
India. It has stated in the counter-affidavit filed in support of its case
that the transfer of Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh had been made after full
and effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India in the public
interest keeping in view all relevant considerations. The Chief Justice of
India has also filed a counter-affidavit to which detailed reference will
be made in due course stating inter alia that Mr. Justice K. B. N. Singh
had been transferred keeping in view all relevant matters in the public
interest and not on any ground touching his character and conduct as a
Judge.963. India, that is Bharat, is a Union of States. It is not a
federation of States like the United States of America. The word
'federation' is not used in the Constitution of India. There is no dual
citizenship in India as we find it in the United States of America. The
Constitution of India contemplates only one citizenship, only one loyalty
and only one sovereignty. The geographical area covered by the States and
the Union territories mentioned in the First Schedule to the Constitution
and such other areas that may be acquired constitute the territory of India
which is an indivisible and indestructible whole though for administrative
convenience is divided into State and Union territories. Parliament may by
law form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by
uniting two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory
to a part of any State; increase the area of any State; diminish the area
of any State; alter the boundaries of any State and alter the name of any
State in accordance with Article 3 and Article 4 of the Constitution. The
principle of unity contemplated under the Constitution of India is much
stronger than the principle underlying the Constitution of the United
States of America. It is, therefore, necessary to remember and adopt it as
our own rule of conduct what Washington wrote on June 8, 1783 in his
message to the Governors of States in the United States of America. He
wrote : Application of constitutional provisions to actual facts of life therefore
requires judicial statesmanship. The following words of Professor
Frankfurter at Harvard University (who later became Justice Frankfurter)
with reference to the American Constitution are equally apposite to our own
: PART II 967. At the outset the question whether the petitioners who are advocates
can file these petitions for the reliefs mentioned therein under Article
226 or Article 32 of the Constitution has got to be considered. The
contention is that members of the Bar who are not personally affected by
the circular letter of the Law Minister, by the appointment of certain
Additional Judges for short-terms of three months or six months, by the
non-appointment of any of the Additional Judges after the expiry of the
tenure fixed under Article 224(1) or by the non-appointment of sufficient
number of Judges of the High Courts or by the transfer of some Judges have
no locus standi to file these petitions. It is contended that neither
qualitatively nor quantitatively these petitioners have sufficient interest
to prosecute these petitions the result of which would not affect them
either directly or even indirectly.968. The attitudes of the courts on the
question of locus standi do not appear to be uniform. They vary from
country to country, court to court and case to case. Sometimes the tests
applied by courts also vary depending upon the nature of the relief sought.
In some cases courts have taken a very narrow view on this question holding
that unless an applicant has either personal or fiduciary interest in the
result of the application, no relief can be granted on his application even
though it may appear that the impugned action or omission of the
administrative authority concerned is not in accordance with law. The other
extreme view is that the courts may in their discretion issue mandamus to
an administrative authority at the instance of any member of the public. A
close scrutiny of the authorities and texts cited before us shows that
neither of the two extreme views is accepted as correct in majority of the
cases. It is also seen that in many of them the courts have found some sort
of special interest in the applicant which distinguishes him from the
general public before granting the relief prayed for by him. A person who
has a genuine grievance on account of an action which affects him
prejudicially is ordinarily considered to be eligible to move the Court. 969. In England a member of the public who has no personal interest in the
performance of a public duty by an administrative authority may as it may
be done in India under Sections 91 and 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 in a limited and qualified way instead of himself approaching the
Court, move the Attorney-General to initiate action in courts for the
benefit of the public. If the Attorney-General is satisfied that action is
called for in any given case, as the nominal plaintiff in a relator action" 970. If the Attorney-General declines to give his consent to a relator
action the Court cannot question his exercise of discretion. This was
firmly settled by the House of Lords in Gouriet v. Union of Post Office
Workers [1977] 3 All E.R. 70 (HL)) reversing a bold decision rendered by
Lord Denning in the Court of Appeal in Gouriet v. Union of Post Office
Workers [1977] 1 All E.R. 696 (CA)) in which he had observed at page 719
thus : 971. After his decision was reversed by the House of Lords, Lord Denning in
his book entitled The Discipline of Law at page 144 wrote thus :In
administrative law the question of locus standi is the most vexed question
of all. I must confess that whenever an ordinary citizen comes to the Court
of Appeal and complains that this or that Government department - or this
or that local authority - or this or that trade union - is abusing or
misusing its power - I always like to hear what he has to say. For I
remember what Mr. T. P. Curran of the Middle Temple said in the year 1790
:" 'It is ever the fate of the indolent to find their rights become a prey
to the active. The condition upon which God hath given liberty to man is
eternal vigilance.' The ordinary citizen who comes to the Court in this way
is usually the vigilant one. Sometimes he is a mere busybody interfering
with things which do not concern him. Then let him be turned down. But when
he has a point which affects the rights and liberties of all the citizens,
then I would hope that he would be heard : for there is no other person or
body to whom he can appeal. But I am afraid that not everyone agrees with
me. "972. The House of Lords having ruled in the Gouriet case [1978] A.C.
435 : [1977] 3 All E.R. 70 : [1977] 3 W.L.R. 300 (HL)) the Court's
jurisdiction in England appears to have been confined to declaring
contested legal rights, subsisting or future, of the parties and of them
only when the Attorney-General does not intervene. This is a step which the
House of Lords appears to have taken with a view to stalling a new trend in
public interest litigation which had been set by Blackburn v. Attorney-
General [1971] 1 W.L.R. 1037 : [1971] 2 All E.R. 1380(CA)) and Attorney-
General (on the relation of) McWhirter v. Independent Broadcasting
Authority (1973 QB 629 : [1973] 1 All E.R. 689 : [1973] 2 W.L.R. 344 (CA)) 973. After the decision of the House of Lords in Gouriet case [1978] A.C.
435 : [1977] 3 All E.R. 70 : [1977] 3 W.L.R. 300 (HL)) it is noteworthy
that Order 53 was introduced into the Rules of the Supreme Court in England
in the year 1977. The relevant part of Order 53 which took effect on
January 11, 1978, some six months after the decision in Gouriet case [1978]
A.C. 435 : [1977] 3 All E.R. 70 : [1977] 3 W.L.R. 300 (HL)) reads :1. (1)
An application for - (a) an order of mandamus, prohibition or certiorari. .
. shall be made by way of an application for judicial review in accordance
with the provisions of this Order. (2) An application for a declaration or an injunction (not being an
injunction mentioned in paragraph (1)(b) may be made by way of an
application for judicial review, and on such an application the Court may
grant the declaration or injunction claimed if it considers that, having
regard to - (a) the nature of the matters in respect of which relief may be
granted by way of an order of mandamus, prohibition or certiorari, (b) the
nature of the persons and bodies against whom relief may be granted by way
of such an order, and (c) all the circumstances of the case, it would be
just and convenient for the declaration or injunction to be granted on an
application for judicial review. 2. On an application for judicial review any relief mentioned in Rule 1(1)
or (2) may be claimed as an alternative or in addition to any other relief
so mentioned if it arises out of or relates to or is connected with the
same matter. 3. (1) No application for judicial review shall be made unless the leave of
the Court has been obtained in accordance with this rule. (2) An application for leave must be made ex parte to a Divisional Court of
the Queen's Bench Division. (3) & (4). . . . (5) The Court shall not grant leave unless it considers that the applicant
has a sufficient interest in the matter to which the application relates. .
. . 974. It appears that Order 53 was designed to stop technical procedural
arguments of many types which had marred the true administration of
justice, and to provide a machinery to determine at the preliminary stage
of the granting of leave to prosecute an application for judicial review,
whether the applicant has a sufficient interest in the matter to which the
application relates. The phrase 'sufficient interest' which, it is stated,
owed its origin to an interlocutory observation made by the Court in R v.
Cotham (1898 1 QB 802, 804 : 67 LJQB 632 : 46 WR 512) and to its use by
Avory, J. in his judgment in Ex parte Stott [1916] 1 K.B. 7, 9 : 85 LJKB
502 : 114 LT 234 (DC)) embraced all kinds of phrases 'a party', 'a person
aggrieved', 'a person with a particular grievance' etc. used in various
cases where the locus standi of the applicant concerned was questioned.
After the aforesaid Order 53 came into force the application out of which
the case Inland Revenue Commissioners v. National Federation of Self-
Employed and Small Businesses Ltd. [1982] A.C. 617 (HL)) decided on April
9, 1981 by the House of Lords arose was instituted before the Queen's
Bench. The facts of the case were these : There was a long standing
practice in Fleet Street for casual employees on national newspapers to
receive their wages without deduction of tax and to supply fictitious names
and addresses when drawing their pay in order to avoid tax. Their true
identities were known only to their unions which operated a closed shop and
controlled all casual employment on the newspapers. In order to prevent the
evasion of tax by the casual employees, the Revenue made a special
arrangement with the employers, the employees and the unions whereby the
employees were required to register with the Revenue and submit tax returns
for the previous two years (1977-78 and 1978-79) in return for an
undertaking by the Revenue that they would not investigate tax evaded prior
to 1977. The applicant, a federation of self-employed persons and small
businessmen which claimed to represent a body of taxpayers, applied for
judicial review under RSC, Order 53 seeking (i) a declaration that the
Revenue had acted unlawfully in making the arrangement and (ii) an order of
mandamus directing the Revenue to assess and collect tax on the newspaper
employees as required by law. The Revenue opposed the application on the
ground that the applicant did not have 'a sufficient interest in the
matter' relating to the application, as required by Order 53, Rule 3(5) for
the Court to grant it the necessary leave to apply for judicial review. The
Divisional Court upheld that contention and refused the applicant leave.
The applicant appealed to the Court of Appeal which held that, as a
preliminary issue and on the assumption that the Revenue had acted
unlawfully, the applicant was not a mere busybody but had a genuine
grievance and therefore had a sufficient interest for the purpose of Rule
3(5). The Revenue appealed contending that the duties imposed on them by
the tax legislation, including in particular the duty of confidentiality as
between the Revenue and each individual taxpayer, precluded the possibility
of any other taxpayer or group of taxpayers from having any 'sufficient
interest' in the performance by the Revenue of their statutory duties. The
House of Lords held inter alia that whether an applicant for mandamus had a
sufficient interest in the matter to which the application related, for the
purposes of Order 53, Rule 3(5) depended on whether the definition
(statutory or otherwise) of the duty alleged to have been breached or not
performed expressly or impliedly gave the applicant the right to complain
of the breach or non-performance. Since the tax legislation, far from
expressly or impliedly conferring on a taxpayer the right to make proposals
about another's tax or to inquire about such tax, in fact indicated the
reverse by reason of the total confidentiality of assessments and
negotiations between individuals and the Revenue, and since on the evidence
the Revenue in making the impugned arrangement were genuinely acting in the
care and management of taxes under the powers entrusted to them, the
application made by the applicant should be dismissed because the applicant
did not have a sufficient interest for the purposes of Rule 3(5), or (per
Lord Diplock) because it had not been shown that the Revenue had acted
ultra vires or unlawfully in making the arrangement. Lord Wilberforce added
that as a matter of general principle a taxpayer had no sufficient interest
in asking the Court to investigate the tax arrears of another taxpayer or
to complain that the latter had been underassessed or overassessed; indeed
there was a strong public interest that he should not. Accordingly the
appeal was allowed and the original application was dismissed.975. In
Canada, however, the rule has been that the principle requiring personal
standing applies to legislation of a regulatory character which affects
particular persons or classes but where no particular persons or classes
are affected more than others, where the issue is justiciable and where the
nature of the case is suitable the Court may grant declaratory relief to
any citizen at its discretion as can be seen from the decision of the
Supreme Court of Canada in Thorson v. Attorney-General of Canada (No. 2)
(1974 43 DLR (3d) 1). Dealing with the right of a taxpayer to dispute the
constitutional validity of the Official Languages Act in Canada, Laskin, J.
observed in that case thus : Government of A.P. The facts necessary for appreciating the point decided in that case
and the decision of this Court on the locus standi of the petitioner
therein can be seen from the following passage occurring at page 181 :Has
the appellant a right to file the petition out of which the present appeal
has arisen ? The appellant is the President of the Panchayat Samithi of
Dharmajigudem. The villagers of Dharmajigudem formed a committee with the
appellant as President for the purpose of collecting contributions from the
villagers for setting up the Primary Health Centre. The said committee
collected Rs. 10,000 and deposited the same with the Block Development
Officer. The appellant represented the village in all its dealings with the
Block Development Committee and the Panchayat Samithi in the matter of the
location of the Primary Health Centre at Dharmajigudem. His conduct, the
acquiescence on the part of the other members of the Committee, and the
treatment meted out to him by the authorities concerned support the
inference that he was authorized to act on behalf of the committee. The
appellant was, therefore, a representative of the committee which was in
law the trustees of the amounts collected by it from the villagers for a
public purpose. We have, therefore, no hesitation to hold that the
appellant had the right to maintain the application under Article 226 of
the Constitution. This Court held in the decision cited supra ( Calcutta Gas
Co. Ltd. v. State of W.B. , that
"ordinarily" the petitioner who seeks to file an application under Article
226 of the Constitution should be one who has a personal or individual
right in the subject-matter of the petition. A personal right need not be
in respect of a proprietary interest : it can also relate to an interest of
a trustee. That apart, in exceptional cases, as the expression "ordinarily"
indicates, a person who has been prejudicially affected by an act or
omission of an authority can file a writ even though he has no proprietary
or even fiduciary interest in the subject-matter thereof. The appellant has
certainly been prejudiced by the said order. The petition under Article 226 of the Constitution at his instance is, therefore, maintainable.978. In Adi
Pherozshah Gandhi v. H. M. Seervai , the expression 'person aggrieved' found in Section
37 of the Advocates Act, 1961 was considered by this Court. The appellant in that case was an advocate of Maharashtra. He was convicted by a Summary
Court in London on a charge of pilfering from a Departmental Store and was
sentenced to pay a fine. The State Bar Council called upon him suo motu to
show cause why he should not be held guilty of misconduct. He submitted his
explanation and the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council was satisfied
that there was no reason for holding him guilty of professional misconduct.
The Advocate-General of the State who was sent a notice of the proceedings
as required by Section 35(2) of the Advocates Act, 1961, and had appeared
before the Disciplinary Committee, filed an appeal to the Bar Council of
India under Section 37 of that Act, under which, any person aggrieved by an
order of the Disciplinary of the State Bar Council made under Section 35 of
that Act, could prefer an appeal to the Bar Council of India. The appellant
objected that the Advocate General had no locus standi to file the appeal.
The objection was overruled by the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar
Council of India and the appellant was found guilty of professional
misconduct. After examining the decision of the Privy Council in Attorney-
General of the Gambia v. Pierra Sarr N'Fie [1961] A.C. 617 : [1961] 2 All
E.R. 504 : [1961] 2 W.L.R. 845 (PC)) and other decisions cited before it,
this Court held that the Advocate General of Maharashtra could not be
treated as a 'person aggrieved' who was entitled to file an appeal under Section 37 of the Advocates Act. The entire decision was based on the
construction of the provisions (as they stood then) of the statute
concerned, as it appeared to the Bench which decided the case. It may be
noted that Section 37 of the Advocates Act has since been amended
authorising the Advocate General of a State expressly to file an appeal. In Bar Council of Maharashtra v. M. V. Dabholkar , the interpretation of the words
'person aggrieved' in the Advocates Act, 1961 , again came up for
consideration by this Court. In that case the right of the State Bar
Council to file an appeal against the decision of the Bar Council of India
before this Court was challenged on the ground that it was not an aggrieved
party. That contention was negatived by Ray, C.J. by giving a liberal
interpretation to the words 'person aggrieved' with the following
observations at SCR page 315 : (SCC pp. 710-11, paras 27-30)The words
'person aggrieved' are found in several statutes. The meaning of the words
'person aggrieved' will have to be ascertained with reference to the
purpose and the provisions of the statute. Sometimes, it is said that the
words 'person aggrieved' correspond to the requirement of locus standi
which arises in relation to judicial remedies. Where a right of appeal to courts against an administrative or judicial
decision is created by statute, the right is invariably confined to a
person aggrieved or a person who claims to be aggrieved. The meaning of the
words 'a person aggrieved' may vary according to the context of the
statute. One of the meanings is that a person will be held to be aggrieved
by a decision if that decision is materially adverse to him. Normally, one
is required to establish that one has been denied or deprived of something
to which one is legally entitled in order to make one 'a person aggrieved'.
Again a person is aggrieved if a legal burden is imposed on him. The
meaning of the words 'a person aggrieved' is sometimes given a restricted
meaning in certain statutes which provide remedies for the protection of
private legal rights. The restricted meaning requires denial or deprivation
of legal rights. A more liberal approach is required in the background of
statutes which do not deal with property rights but deal with professional
conduct and morality. The role of the Bar Council under the Advocates Act is comparable to the role of a guardian in professional ethics. The words
'person aggrieved' in Sections 37 and 38 of the Act are of wide import and
should not be subjected to a restricted interpretation of possession or
denial of legal rights or burdens or financial interests. The test is
whether the words 'person aggrieved' include" a person who has a genuine
grievance because an order has been made which prejudicially affects his
interests ". It has, therefore, to be found out whether the Bar Council has
a grievance in respect of an order or decision affecting the professional
conduct and etiquette.The pre-eminent question is : what are the interests
of the Bar Council ? The interests of the Bar Council are the maintenance
of standards of professional conduct and etiquette. The Bar Council has no
personal or pecuniary interest. The Bar Council has the statutory duty and
interest to see that the rules laid down by the Bar Council of India in
relation to professional conduct and etiquette are upheld and not violated.
The Bar Council acts as the sentinel of professional code of conduct and is
vitally interested in the rights and privileges of the advocates as well as
the purity and dignity of the profession. The interest of the Bar Council is to uphold standards of professional
conduct and etiquette in the profession, which is founded upon integrity
and mutual trust. The Bar Council acts as the custodian of the high
traditions of the noble profession. The grievance of the Bar Council is to
be looked at purely from the point of view of standards of professional
conduct and etiquette. If any decision of the disciplinary committee of the
Bar Council of India is according to the State Bar Council such as will
lower the standards and imperil the high traditions and values in the
profession, the State Bar Council is an aggrieved person to safeguard the
interests of the public, the interests of the profession and the interests
of the Bar. 979. The above two decisions are in cases in which writs in the nature of
certiorari were sought. This Court has however in cases in which writs in
the nature of habeas corpus or of quo warranto are prayed for relaxed the
rule that ordinarily an applicant under Article 226 should show that some
personal right or fiduciary interest is prejudiced by the action or
inaction of the authority concerned. 980. In Jasbhai Motibhai Desai v. Roshan Kumar, Haji Bashir Ahmed this Court
observed that" while a Procrustean approach should be avoided, as a rule,
the Court should not interfere at the instance of a 'stranger' unless there
are exceptional circumstances involving a grave miscarriage of justice
having an adverse impact on public interests ". (SCC p. 686, para 50)981. In Fertilizer Corporation Kamgar Union (Regd.) v. Union of India the right
of workers in a factory owned by Government to question the validity of a
disposal of plant and equipment of the factory by the management was
disputed. On that question Chandrachud, C.J. observed : (SCC pp. 579-80,
para 23)

That disposes of the question as regards the maintainability of the writ
petition. But, we feel concerned to point out that the maintainability of a
writ petition which is correlated to the existence and violation of a
fundamental right is not always to be confused with the locus to bring a
proceeding under Article 32. These two matters often mingle and coalesce
with the result that it becomes difficult to consider them in watertight
compartments. The question whether a person has the locus to file a
proceeding depends mostly and often on whether he possesses a legal right
and that right is violated. But, in an appropriate case, it may become
necessary in the changing awareness of legal rights and social obligations
to take a broader view of the question of locus to initiate a proceeding,
be it under Article 226 or under Article 32 of the Constitution. If public
property is dissipated, it would require a strong argument to convince the
Court that representative segments of the public or at least a section of
the public which is directly interested and affected would have no right to
complain of the infraction of public duties and obligations. Public
enterprises are owned by the people and those who run them are accountable
to the people. The accountability of the public sector to the Parliament is
ineffective because the parliamentary control of public enterprises is
'diffuse and haphazard'. We are not too sure if we would have refused
relief to the workers if we had found that the sale was unjust, unfair or
mala fide.982. In the same case Krishna Iyer, J. after an elaborate
discussion of the principle of 'locus standi' observed at SCR pages 76-77
thus : (SCC pp. 588 & 589, paras 47 & 48)

In the present case a worker, who, clearly, has an interest in the
industry, brings this action regarding an alleged wrongdoing by the Board
of Management. Article 43-A of the Constitution confers, in principle,
partnership status to workers in industry and we cannot, therefore, be
deterred by technical considerations of corporate personality to keep out
those who seek to remedy wrongs committed in the management of public
sector. Locus standi and justiciability are different issues, as I have
earlier pointed out. . . If a citizen is no more than a wayfarer or officious intervener without any
interest or concern beyond what belongs to any one of the 660 million
people of this country, the door of the court will not be ajar for him.
But, if he belongs to an organisation which has special interest in the
subject-matter, if he has some concern deeper than that of a busybody, he
cannot be told off at the gates, although whether the issue raised by him
is justiciable may still remain to be considered. I, therefore, take the
view that the present petition would clearly have been permissible under Article 226. 983. In Municipal Council v. Vardichan , Krishna Iyer, J. upheld the right
of the people who were residents of Ratlam town to institute a case against
its Municipal Council ventilating a public grievance thus : (SCC p. 163,
para 1)

'It is procedural rules', as this appeal proves, 'which infuse life into
substantive rights, which activate them to make them effective'. Here,
before us, is what looks like a pedestrian quasi-criminal litigation under Section 133 , CrPC, where the Ratlam Municipality - the appellant -
challenges the sense and soundness of the High Court's affirmation of the
trial Court's order directing the construction of drainage facilities and
the like, which has spiralled up to this Court. The truth is that a few
profound issues of processual jurisprudence of great strategic significance
to our legal system face us and we must zero in on them as they involve
problems of access to justice for the people beyond the blinkered rules of
'standing' of British-Indian vintage. If the centre of gravity of justice
is to shift, as the Preamble to the Constitution mandates, from the
traditional individualism of locus standi to the community orientation of
public interest litigation, these issues must be considered. In that sense,
the case before us between the Ratlam Municipality and the citizens of a
ward, is a pathfinder in the field of people's involvement in the justicing
process, sans which as Prof. Sikes points out (Melvyn P. Sikes : Whatever may be the position with regard to the other prayers made in these
petitions, it is difficult to hold that on the first two questions the
petitioners can be held to be having no 'standing' to file the petitions.
It is no doubt true that the power to fix the number of permanent Judges to
be appointed in each High Courts is within the discretion of the President.
But that power is coupled with a duty which the President owes to the
public in general and to the lawyers and litigants in particular. If at any
given point of time it is found that the number of Judges in a High Court
is absolutely inadequate to meet its requirements, the members of the Bar
who are vitally interested in the administration of justice can file a
petition before the High Court to compel the Government to review the
strength of the permanent Judges of that Court and to appoint adequate
number of Judges. The members of the Bar are not called officers of courts
only to impose obligations on them. They have certain rights too. It is
significant that Article 124(3)(b) , Article 217(2)(b) and Article 233(2) of
the Constitution specifically state that the legal profession is a source
of recruitment of Judges of the Supreme Court, High Courts and District
Courts. Entries 77 and 78 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution specifically refer to persons entitled to practise before the
Supreme Court and the High Courts. Section 29 of the Advocates Act, 1961,
provides that only one class of persons can practise the profession of law,
namely, advocates. Members of the Bar have a vital stake in the functioning
of the judiciary. Members of the Bar and even litigants whose cases have
remained undisposed for a long number of Judges can therefore file a
petition demanding appointment of sufficient number of permanent Judges in
High Courts. The power under Article 216 of the Constitution is an
administrative power which can be regulated in an appropriate way by the
courts like any other administrative power. It is not a matter of policy
simpliciter. The question of appointment of sufficient number of Additional
Judges under Article 224(1) of the Constitution for the required period
having regard to the arrears or the quantum of business in a High Court can
also be agitated by lawyers and litigants. It is true that the Court should
not ordinarily issue a mandamus in such cases unless it is satisfied that
there has been a gross deriliction of duty on the part of the Government.
That however is a point to be considered before granting or refusing to
grant the relief. But it cannot in any event be said that a petition filed
by lawyers for the above-said reliefs is liable to be dismissed at the
threshold merely on the ground of locus standi. The petitioners satisfy all
the tests which are laid down in the decisions refereed to above to
maintain the petitions on the two questions referred to above. During the
pendency of these petitions, two further circumstances have come into
existence. Mr. S. N. Kumar who was an Additional Judge of the Delhi High
Court when the petition of Shri V. M. Tarkunde was filed in the High Court
has ceased to be an Additional Judge as his term was not extended beyond
June 6, 1981. He has, though as a respondent, by filing necessary pleadings
questioned the action of the Government in not extending his term and also
the validity of the circular letter of the Law Minister. In the case
relating to the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, Chief Justice of Patna
High Court as Chief Justice of Madras High Court, he has been permitted to
be transposed as the petitioner. He has filed an additional affidavit
challenging the order of transfer. In view of these new circumstances much
of the sting in the objection to the locus standi of the original
petitioners to file the petitions is lost. It must also be stated that the
learned Attorney-General also stated at the commencement of the hearing of
these cases that he would not press his objection relating to the locus
standi of the petitioners having regard to the magnitude and the importance
of the constitutional questions involved in the cases.985. But Shri P. R.
Mridul, learned counsel appearing for the Law Minister, however, contends
that the lawyers either as a class or individually cannot be permitted to
file petitions of the issue of any direction to the Government concerning
the appointment or transfer of Judges. He has depended upon the writings of
L. A. Stein, S. M. Thio, Joel Grossman and Richard S. Wells and Lousi L.
Jaffe and a number of decisions in support of his submission. He has quoted
copiously from Judicial Protection Against The Executive published by the
Max Planck Institute. Shri Mridul argues that an applicant must show that
he has a legal or some special interest which is sufficient in law to move
the Court and that the duty which is sought to be enforced is owed to him.
I have carefully considered his submission. The conclusion reached by S. M.
Thio in his essay entitled "Locus Standi in Relation to Mandamus" at page
133 in Public Law, edited by J. A. G. Griffith on which Shri Mridul has
relied is of significance. It runs thus : performance of the duty theoretically affects a class of persons more than
the general public, but in actuality has only de facto effect on some
members of the class, the mandamus applicant will probably have to show
that his interest is more substantial than that of the interest-group to
which he belongs. 986. Shri Mridul however fairly concedes that litigations of class
character or public interest litigations (which may be called public injury
cases) are an essential feature of modern civilised jurisprudence and there
is no gainsaying the fact that in these cases of public wrongs and public
injury a liberal approach is adopted by the courts to reach all forms of
injustice particularly where prisoners, lunatics, minors and other weaker
sections of people who cannot have access to court owing to their
helplessness are involved. In support of this statement, he has brought to
our notice the decision of this Courts in Mumbai Kamgar Sabha v. Abdulbhai
Faizullabhai in which Krishna Iyer, J. has observed thus : (SCC pp. 837-38, para 7)Fairness to respondent's counsel constrains us to consider in limine a
flawsome plea forcibly urged that the Union figured as the appellant before
us but being no party to the dispute (which was between the workers on the
one hand and the establishments on the other) had no locus standi. No right
of the Union qua Union was involved and the real disputants were the
workers. Surely, there is terminological lapse in the cause-title because,
in fact, the aggrieved appellants are the workers collectively, not the
Union. But a bare reading of the petition, the description of parties, the
grounds urged and grievances aired, leave us in no doubt that the battle is
between the workers and employers and the Union represents, as a collective
noun, as it were, the numerous humans whose presence is indubitable in the
contest, thought formally invisible on the party array. The substance of
the matter is obvious and formal defects, in such circumstances, fade away.
We are not dealing with a civil litigation governed by the Civil Procedure
Code but with an industrial dispute where the process of conflict
resolution is informal, rough-and-ready and invites a liberal approach.
Procedural prescriptions are handmaids, not mistresses of justice and
failure of fair play is the spirit in which Courts must view processual
deviances. Our adjectival branch of jurisprudence, by and large, deals not
with sophisticated litigants but the rural poor, the urban lay and the
weaker societal segments for whom law will be an added terror if technical
misdescriptions and deficiencies in drafting pleadings and setting out the
cause-title create a secret weapon to non-suit a party. Where foul play is
absent, and fairness is not faulted, latitude is a grace of processual
justice. Test litigations, representative actions, pro bono publico and
like broadened forms of legal proceedings are in keeping with the current
accent on justice to the common man and a necessary disincentive to those
who wish to bypass the real issues on the merits by suspect reliance on
peripheral procedural shortcomings. Even Article 226 , viewed in wider
perspective, may be amenable to ventilation of collective or common
grievances, as distinguished from assertion of individual rights, although
the traditional view, backed by precedents, has opted for the narrower
alternative. Public interest is promoted by a spacious construction of
locus standi in our socio-economic circumstances and conceptual
latitudinarianism permits taking liberties with individualisation of the
right to invoke the higher courts where the remedy is shared by a
considerable number, particularly when they are weaker. Less litigation,
consistent with fair process, is the aim of adjectival law. Therefore, the
decisions cited before us founded on the jurisdiction under Article 226 are
inept and themselves somewhat out of tune with the modern requirements of
jurisprudence calculated to benefit the community.987. Yet the contention
of Shri Mridul is that even though the lawyers constitute a special group
who can be said to be concerned with the administration of justice in the
sense of having a professional interest in connection therewith, that by
itself is not sufficient for holding that they can file the petitions in
respect of the reliefs prayed for by them which concern only the Judges and
not the lawyers. He strongly pressed before us the view expressed by this
Court in the State of Gujarat v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd. I find that the said decision has not much relevance on the question before us and it is not necessary to
deal with it at length. 988. It is also difficult to hold that the recognition of the 'standing' of
the lawyers to file these petitions would in any way interfere with the
doctrine of separation of powers since it is not the case of Shri Mridul
that a person who has indisputably the right to file these petitions cannot
in law raise the questions urged before us in these cases. If the issues
are non-justiciable, the petitions may have to be dismissed on the ground
that the impugned administrative action is beyond judicial review but this
has no bearing on the question of 'locus standi' of the petitioners, who
are lawyers. Lawyers are entitled to approach the Court to direct the
Government to appoint sufficient number of permanent Judges and to appoint
sufficient number of Additional Judges for the maximum period of two years
having regard to the arrears and the business of the Court. They may also
legitimately agitate that Additional Judges should not be appointed when
permanent vacancies have remained unfilled for no good reason. 989. It has, however, to be made clear that it cannot be said that lawyers
only because they have a right to practise in a court have 'locus standi'
to file petitions in respect of every matter concerning judges, courts and
administration of justice. There are many such matters in which they have
no 'locus standi' to ask for relief. By way of illustration, lawyers cannot
question the establishment of a new court on the ground that their
professional prospects would be affected thereby. (See V. R. Mudvedkar v.
State of Mysore , : 1971 1 Mys LJ 188) Even in these
cases on the question of non-appointment of Mr. S. N. Kumar and on the
question of transfer of Mr. K. B. N. Singh, the lawyer-petitioners may have
no voice. But for the active participation of these two persons, the
petitions regarding reliefs concerning them individually would have
probably become liable to be dismissed on the ground that the lawyers have
no 'locus standi' to make these prayers.990. But, since as already stated,
Mr. S. N. Kumar and Mr. K. B. N. Singh have requested the Court to consider
and if thought fit to grant relief in their favour and the learned
Attorney-General has fairly stated that he would not raise the objection
that the petitioners have no locus standi in view of the importance of the
questions debated in these cases, we hold that the petitions cannot be
rejected merely on the ground that the petitioners who are lawyers have no
locus standi to file these petitions. Before leaving this topic, it has to
be observed that the question of locus standi in the field of
administrative law is still in a fluid state and it is not possible to lay
down in any one case the principles which can govern all situations. PART III 991. The Court cannot also decline to go into the questions agitated in
these petitions on the ground that they are political questions or
questions within the exclusive domain of executive discretion. The doctrine
of political question which was holding the field long time back in the
United States of America has now been exploded. It had been assumed for
some time that the courts would not adjudicate claims to power by the
legislative and executive branches because they presented 'political' and
therefore non-justiciable questions. This claim was based on the principle
of separation of powers recognised by the Constitution of the United States
of America. Alexis de Tocqueville was one of the earliest writers who
challenged in the year 1835 itself the correctness of the doctrine of
political question. He said in his book entitled Democracy in America
(published by Oxford University Press in 1961, p. 82) thus : 995. In Powell v. McCormack 395 US 486 : 23 L Ed 2d 491 1969) the label of
political question was considered a misnomer and all cases in which such a
plea was raised were cases in which really the question of jurisdiction of
the court to decide the issue arising in them had been canvassed. The
plaintiff in that case, Adam Clayton Powell Jr., was duly elected from a
congressional district of New York as a member of the United States House
of Representatives in 1966. However, pursuant to a House resolution he was
not permitted to take his seat on the ground that he had earlier wrongfully
diverted House funds, had made false reports regarding foreign currency
etc. Powell along with some others who were voters in the constituency then
filed a suit claiming that the House could exclude him only if it found
that he failed to meet the standing requirements of age, citizenship and
residence contained in Section 2 of Article I of the Constitution of the
United States of America and thus had excluded him unconstitutionally. The
District Court dismissed the suit for want of jurisdiction over the
subject-matter. The Court of Appeal affirmed the dismissal although on
somewhat different grounds. One of the points raised before the Supreme
Court of the United States of America was that the question involved was a
political question and hence was not justiciable. The Supreme Court held
that it was an error to dismiss the suit and remanded it for disposal in
accordance with law. Chief Justice Warren who spoke for the Court disposed
of the defence based on political question at page 532 thus : Carr, 369 US 186, 217 : 7 L Ed 2d 663, 686 : 82 S Ct 691 1962) Our system
 of Government requires that federal courts on occasion interpret the
 Constitution in a manner at variance with the construction given the
 document by another branch. The alleged conflict that such an adjudication
 may cause cannot justify the courts' avoiding their constitutional
 responsibility. . . . Thus, we conclude that petitioners' claim is not barred by the political
question doctrine, and, having determined that the claim is otherwise
generally justiciable, we hold that the case is justiciable. 996. In sum, the political question doctrine, according to R. Berger,
interposes no obstacle to judicial determination of the rival legislative-
executive claims to receive or withhold information. The power to decide
these claims plainly has not been lodged in either the legislative or the
executive branch; equally plainly, the jurisdiction to demarcate
constitutional boundaries between the rival claimants has been given to
courts. The situation is the same when private parties are involved. This
rule, of course, is subject to considerations such as national security and
diplomatic relations. This appears to be the position in the United States
of America.997. In our country which is governed by a written Constitution
also many questions which appear to have a purely political colour are
bound to assume the character of judicial questions. In the State of
Rajasthan v. Union of India the Government's claim that the validity of the decision of
the President under Article 356(1) of the Constitution being political in
character was not justiciable on that sole ground was rejected by this
Court. Bhagwati, J. in the course of his judgment observed in that case at
SCR pages 80-81 thus : (SCC p. 661, para 149)

It will, therefore, be seen that merely because a question has a political
colour, the Court cannot fold its hands in despair and declare "Judicial
hands off". So long as a question arises whether an authority under the
Constitution has acted within the limits of its power or exceeded it, it
can certainly be decided by the Court. Indeed it would be its
constitutional obligation to do so. It is necessary to assert in the
clearest terms, particularly in the context of recent history, that the
Constitution is suprema lex, the paramount law of the land, and there is no
department or branch of government above or beyond it. Every organ of
government, be it the executive or the legislature or the judiciary,
derives its authority from the Constitution and it has to act within the
limits of its authority. No one howsoever highly placed and no authority
howsoever lofty can claim that it shall be the sole judge of the extent of
its power under the Constitution or whether its action is within the
confines of such power laid down by the Constitution. This Court is the
ultimate interpreter of the Constitution and to this Court is assigned the
delicate task of determining what is the power conferred on each branch of
government, whether it is limited, and if so, what are the limits and
whether any action of that branch transgresses such limits. It is for this
Court to uphold the constitutional values and to enforce the constitutional
limitations. That is the essence of the rule of law.998. The objection that
the questions involved in these petitions are non-justiciable merely on the
ground that they are political in character has to be negatived. But it is
made clear that the courts are not entitled to enquire into every sort of
question without any limitation. There is still a certain class of
questions such as international relations, national security which cannot
be entertained by the Court. It is for the Court to determine in each case
whether a particular question should be debated before it or not. 999. The questions raised in these petitions will be considered hereafter. PART IV

1000. We are concerned in these cases with High Courts and Judges of High
Courts in our country. 1001. Speaking on the nature of the Draft Constitution, Dr. Ambedkar in his
speech delivered on November 4, 1948, in the Constituent Assembly said : A dual judiciary, a duality of legal codes and a duality of civil services,
as I said, are the logical consequences of a dual polity which is inherent
in a federation. In the USA the Federal Judiciary and the State Judiciary
are separate and independent of each other. The Indian Federation though a
dual polity has no dual judiciary at all. The High Courts and the Supreme
Court form one single integrated judiciary having jurisdiction and
providing remedies in all cases arising under the constitutional law, the
civil law or the criminal law. (CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY DEBATES, Vol. 7
(1948-49), pp. 34, 36-37)

1002. The High Courts in India are established by the Constitution. Article
376 of the Constitution, however, provided for the continuance of the
Judges of a High Court in any Province holding office immediately before
the commencement of the Constitution as Judges of the new High Court in the
corresponding State. Article 376 of the Constitution reads : Any such Judge shall, notwithstanding that he is not a citizen of India, be
eligible for appointment as Chief Justice of such High Court, or as Chief
Justice or other Judge of any other High Court.(2) The Judges of a High
Court in any Indian State corresponding to any State specified in Part B of
the First Schedule holding office immediately before the commencement of
this Constitution shall, unless they have elected otherwise, become on such
commencement the Judges of the High Court in the State so specified and
shall, notwithstanding anything in clauses (1) and (2) of Article 217 but
subject to the proviso to clause (1) of that article, continue to hold
office until the expiration of such period as the President may by order
determine. (3) In this article, the expression "Judge" does not include an acting
Judge or an Additional Judge. 1003. After the commencement of the Constitution, the new High Courts were
allowed to exercise the jurisdiction of the existing High Courts, until it
was duly altered by appropriate Legislature, by virtue of Article 225 of
the Constitution which reads : (2) For the purposes of this Constitution the High Court exercising
jurisdiction in relation to any Province immediately before the
commencement of this Constitution shall be deemed to be the High Court for
the corresponding State.(3) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to
every High Court referred to in this article. 1006. Clauses (2) and (3) of Article 214 were omitted by the Constitution
(Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 and Article 214(1) was renumbered as Article 214. Clause (2) of Article 214 contained the necessary 'deeming' provision
under which the High Courts exercising jurisdiction in any Province
immediately prior to the commencement of the Constitution became High
Courts under the Constitution as per definition contained in Article
366(14) of the Constitution. Clause (3) of Article 214 stated that Chapter
V in Part VI of the Constitution did not apply to any particular High Court
but generally to all the High Courts thereby suggesting that this chapter
could have very well been included in a separate part of the Constitution.
The legislative power to constitute a High Court is vested in the
Parliament by Entry 78 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the
Constitution which reads : 1007. It is today quite possible for the Parliament to pass a common High
Courts Act governing all the High Courts in India replacing the existing
laws governing them. 1008. The appointment of a Judge of a High Court is made by the President
in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State
concerned and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court. A Judge may by writing under
his hand addressed to the President resign his office. He is removable from
office by the order of the President passed after an address by Parliament
presented in the manner provided in Article 124(4) of the Constitution for
the removal of a Judge of the Supreme Court. Article 222 of the
Constitution states that the President may after consultation with the
Chief Justice of India transfer a Judge from one High Court to any other
High Court without any kind of consultation with the Governors of the
States concerned or the Chief Justices of those High Courts. Article 224-A of the Constitution inter alia provides that notwithstanding anything
contained in Chapter V in Part VI of the Constitution, the Chief Justice of
a High Court for any State may at any time with the previous consent of the
President request any person who has held the office of a Judge of that
Court or any other High Court to sit and act as a Judge of the High Court
for that State. Under Paragraph 11(b)(i) of the Second Schedule to the
Constitution, the time spent by a Judge of any High Court on duty as a
Judge or in the performance of such other functions (including functions
connected with a different State) as he may at the request of the President
undertake to discharge is treated as 'actual service'. Under Article 231 of
the Constitution, Parliament may by law establish a common High Court for
two or more States or for one or more States and a Union territory. Article
139-A(2) of the Constitution empowers the Supreme Court to transfer any
case, appeal or other proceeding pending before a High Court to any other
High Court. By virtue of the proviso to clause (1) of Article 356 of the
Constitution the powers vested and exercisable by a High Court remain
unaffected by any proclamation issued under Article 356(1) by the President
in relation to a State over which the High Court is exercising
jurisdiction. These provisions indicate that all the High Courts
organically form integral parts of a single system although their
territorial jurisdictions are defined. No High Court can claim any
superiority over the other either on the basis of its situation or on the
basis that it is a successor to a High Court which was functioning in any
Province immediately before the commencement of the Constitution or on the
basis of the extent of its territorial jurisdiction. All the High Courts
have the same status under the Constitution.PART V

1009. The scope of the power of the President to appoint Judges of the High
Courts under Article 217(1) of the Constitution may be considered now. It
may be appropriate to refer here to the position prevailing under the Government of India Act, 1935 . Under Section 220(2) of that Act every Judge
of a High Court was to be appointed by His Majesty and he could hold office
until he attained the age of 60 years. He was liable to be removed from his
office by His Majesty on the ground of misbehaviour or of infirmity of mind
or body if the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on a reference being
made to them by His Majesty reported that he ought on any such ground to be
removed. The appointment of a Judge of a High Court under the Government of
India Act, 1935 was thus a Crown appointment. The Governor-General was,
however, given the power under Section 222 of that Act to appoint
Additional or acting Judge on behalf of the Crown for a temporary period.
There was no requirement of any consultation with any specified judicial
authority. When Section 220 of the Government of India Act, 1935 came up
for discussion before the House of Commons in order to ascertain whether
the appointments of High Court Judges was subjected to political pressure
or not, a question was raised in the following way : 1012. Article 193(1) of the Draft Constitution stated that every Judge of a
High Court was to be appointed by the President by a warrant under his hand
and seal after consultation with the Chef Justice of India, the Governor of
the State and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court of that State. In the
Memorandum containing the views of the Judges of the Federal Court and of
the Chief Justices representing all the Provincial High Courts prepared by
the Conference of the Judges of the Federal Court and the Chief Justices of
the several High Courts held in March 1948 on the question of appointment
of Judges of the High Court, it was represented to the Drafting Committee
as follows : 1014. It may be noted that the three different words 'recommendation',
'consultation' and 'concurrence' used in the proposal of the Conference of
the Federal Court Judges and Chief Justices of High Courts were not adopted
by the Constituent Assembly but only the word 'consultation' was used in
respect of all the three functionaries referred to in Article 217(1). 1015. In Biswanath Khemka v. King-Emperor 1945 FCR 99 : (2) Before giving any decision on any such question, the President shall
obtain the opinion of the Election Commission and shall act according to
such opinion. 1021. Clause (2) of Article 103 lays down the only method in accordance
with which the President can decide a question arising under clause (1)
thereof. It requires him to refer the said question to the Election
Commission for its opinion and to decide the question according to its
opinion. Article 74(1) therefore is excluded from operation by necessary
implication. A question of similar nature arising in respect of a member of
the State Legislature has to be decided under Article 192 by the Governor
concerned in accordance with the opinion of the Election Commission. Article 163(1) therefore becomes inapplicable by necessary intendment to
such a case. It is thus seen that wherever the opinion of another authority
alone is binding on the President or a Governor, as the case may be, the
Constitution uses appropriate words conveying such meaning. 1022. Under Article 217(3) of the Constitution which provides for the
determination of the age of a Judge of a High Court, the President has to
decide the age of a High Court Judge after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and this Court has observed in Union of India v. Jyoti
Prakash Mitter that the President cannot in deciding the case under Article 217(3) act on the advice of his Ministers. Here again Article 74(1) of the
Constitution gets excluded by necessary implication. But that case stands
on an entirely different footing. The function of the President under Article 217(3) is a judicial function and that makes all the difference.
This Court observed in the said case at SCR pages 504-505 thus : (SCC pp.
410-11, para 32)It is necessary to observe that the President in whose name
all executive functions of the Union are performed is by Article 217(3) invested with judicial power of great significance which has bearing on the
independence of the Judges of the higher Courts. The President is by Article 74 of the Constitution the constitutional head who acts on the
advice of the Council of Ministers in the exercise of his functions. Having
regard to the very grave consequences resulting from even the initiation of
an enquiry relating to the age of a Judge, our Constitution makers have
thought it necessary to invest the power in the President. In the exercise
of this power if democratic institutions are to take root in our country,
even the slightest suspicion or appearance of misuse of that power should
be avoided. Otherwise independence of the judiciary is likely to be gravely
imperilled. We recommend that even in the matter of serving notice and
asking for representation from a Judge of the High Court where a question
as to his age is raised, the President's Secretariat should ordinarily be
the channel, that the President should have consultation with the Chief
Justice of India as required by the Constitution and that there must be no
interposition of any other body or authority, in the consultation between
the President and the Chief Justice of India. Again we are of the view that
normally an opportunity for an oral hearing should be given to the Judge
whose age is in question, and the question should be decided by the
President on consideration of such material as may be placed by the Judge
concerned and the evidence against him after the same is disclosed to him.
The President acting under Article 217(3) performs a judicial function of
grave importance under the scheme of our Constitution. He cannot act on the
advice of his Ministers. Notwithstanding the declared finality of the order
of the President the Court has jurisdiction in appropriate cases to set
aside the order, if it appears that it was passed on collateral
considerations or the rules of natural justice were not observed, or that
the President's judgment was coloured by the advice or representation made
by the executive or it was founded on no evidence. But this Court will not
sit in appeal over the judgment of the President, nor will the Courts
determine the weight which should be attached to the evidence. Appreciation
of evidence is entirely left to the President and it is not for the Courts
to hold that on the evidence placed before the President on which the
conclusion is founded, if they were called upon to decide the case they
would have reached some other conclusion.1023. The power of appointment of
a Judge of a High Court is an executive power and the analogy of Article
217(3) is, therefore, inappropriate. 1024. The power of the Governor with regard to matters connected with
appointment or dismissal of judicial officers was construed by this Court
giving the final voice regarding such appointment or dismissal only to the
Governor under Article 233 of the Constitution notwithstanding the vesting
of control over the subordinate judiciary in the High Court under Article
235 in the case of State of West Bengal v. Nripendra Nath Bagchi 789-790 . In that
case Hidayatullah, J. (as he then was) reconciled and interpreted Article
233 , Article 234 , Article 235 and Article 311 thus : 1029. The binding nature of an opinion expressed by an authority who has to
be consulted before making an appointment of a Judge was disposed of by
Chandrachud, C.J. in In re The Special Courts Bill, 1978 
para 96) with the following words -" . . . the process of consultation has
its own limitations and they are quite well known. The obligation to
consult may not necessarily act as a check on an executive. . . ". Later on
the learned Chief Justice again observed at SCR pages 550-551 : (SCC pp.
435-36, para 97)

Yet another infirmity from which the procedure prescribed by the Bill
suffers is that the only obligation which Clause 7 imposes on the Central
Government while nominating a person to preside over the Special Court is
to consult the Chief Justice of India. This is not a proper place and it is
to some extent embarrassing to dwell upon the pitfalls of the consultative
process though, by hearsay one may say that as a matter of convention, it
is in the rarest of rare cases that the advice tendered by the Chief
Justice of India is not accepted by the Government. But the right of an
accused to life and liberty cannot be made to depend upon pious expressions
of hope, howsoever past experience may justify them. The assurance that
conventions are seldom broken is a poor consolation to an accused whose
life and honour are at stake. Indeed, one must look at the matter not so
much from the point of view of the Chief Justice of India, nor indeed from
the point of view of the Government, as from the point of view of the
accused and the expectations and sensitivities of the society. . . .1030.
The substance of these observations is that the opinion expressed by the
Chief Justice of India who has to be consulted beforehand would not be
binding as such on the executive. That was the reason for insisting upon in
that case that the Government should appoint a Judge of the Special Court
with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of India as otherwise there would
have been no need for such insistence. 1031. The thesis that the Constitution prohibits the participation of the
Executive in the appointment of Judges of superior courts and that the
opinion of the Chief Justice of India alone should be binding on the
President in such matters totally fails when we consider the question of
appointment of the Chief Justice of India. Article 124(2) of the
Constitution provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be
appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after
consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High
Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose
and that in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief
Justice, the Chief Justice of India shall always be consulted. From the
above clause of Article 124 , it is obvious that when the appointment is to
the post of the Chief Justice of India, it is not obligatory on the part of
the President to consult any specified functionary. But he has to consult
such of the Judges of the Supreme Court each one of whom may himself be an
aspirant to the post and such other Judges of the High Courts as he may
consider necessary. In this situation, it is quite evident that the opinion
of any one of the Judges who may be consulted cannot be treated as binding
on the President. The power of appointment rests with the President who has
no doubt to take the decision on the advice given by the Council of
Ministers after making the necessary consultation. When the 'primacy of
judicial opinion' doctrine thus fails in the case of the appointment of the
Chief Justice of India, it would not be appropriate to hold that it
prevails in the case of appointments of other Judges of the Supreme Court
and the Judges of the High Courts.1032. Under Article 217(1) of the
Constitution the President should, therefore, while making an appointment
of a High Court Judge act on the advice of his Council of Ministers having
due regard to the opinions expressed by the functionaries mentioned therein
after a full and effective consultation. There is no scope for holding that
either the Council of Ministers cannot advice the President on this matter
or that the opinion of the Chief Justice of India is binding on the
President although such opinion should be given due respect and regard. 1033. As a part of this very contention it is urged that the Executive
should have no voice at all in the matter of appointment of Judges of the
superior courts in India as the independence of the judiciary which is a
basic feature of the Constitution would be in serious jeopardy if the
executive can interfere with the process of their appointment. It is
difficult to hold that merely because the power of appointment is with the
executive, the independence of the judiciary would become impaired. The
true principle is that after such appointment the executive should have no
scope to interfere with the work of a Judge. 1034. In this connection out of curiosity I have looked into some of the
books dealing with the modes of appointment of Judges in other countries.
The methods by which Judges are chosen in the different countries of the
world may be broadly classified according to Professor J. W. Garner into
three types - (1) election by the legislature (2) election by the people
and (3) appointment by the executive either absolutely or from a list of
nominees presented by the courts or with the concurrence of an executive
council or the upper chamber of the legislature. Choice by the legislature
was a favourite method of selection in the American States for some time
but this system has been abandoned in all the States except Rhode Island,
Vermont, South Carolina and Virginia. In Switzerland the Judges of the
federal tribunal are chosen by the legislative assembly of the federation.
Election of Judges by the people was first introduced in France in 1790.
With the advent of Napoleon this system was abolished as it had become
discredited by then. In 38 of the States in the USA, the method of popular
election of Judges is the rule. In nearly all countries other than the
United States of America, the Judges are appointed by the executive and
even in the United States it is the Judges are appointed by the executive
and even in the United States it is the method followed for the appointment
of federal Judges and in six States for appointment of State Judges. In
Belgium the Judges of the Court of Cassation are appointed from two lists
of nominees each containing twice as many names as there are vacancies to
be filled, one presented by the Court itself and another by the Senate. In
France it is the custom when a vacancy occurs on the Bench it is for the
President of the Court and the State's Attorney to propose the names of
several persons to the Minister of Justice for his consideration. Generally
he appoints one of the persons so recommended but sometimes for political
reasons he prefers to follow the recommendations of a deputy, who may be an
influential member of the Minister's party.1035. In England the nominations
to all vacancies among the superior Judges are made either by the Prime
Minister or by the Lord Chancellor." The Prime Minister nominates the Law
Lords, the Lords Justices of Appeal, the Lord Chief Justice, the Master of
the Rolls and the President of the Probate Divorce and Admiralty Division.
It is commonly assumed that the Prime Minister is guided by the Lord
Chancellor. The ordinary Judges of the High Court often called puisne
Judges are nominated by the Lord Chancellor. The Lord Chancellor is
responsible for the lesser judicial appointments. "(See R. M. Jackson : THE
MACHINERY OF JUSTICE IN ENGLAND, 1960 Edn., p. 232)

1036. In his letter written by the end of 1951 to Morse Erskine, a member
of the California Bar, Lord Jowitt who was the Lord Chancellor in the
Labour Government till October 1951, however, stated : 1048. Section 105 of the Government of India Act, 1915 contained almost the
same provisions which were found in Section 7 of the High Courts Act or the
Charter Act, 1861 providing for the appointment of acting Chief Justice and
acting Judges. But Section 101 of the 1915 Act however made provision for
the appointment of Additional Judges. Sub-section (2) of Section 101 stated
that each High Court should consist of a Chief Justice and as many other
Judges as His Majesty might think fit to appoint. Clause (i) of the proviso
to that sub-section authorised the Governor-General in Council to appoint
persons to act as Additional Judges for such period not exceeding two
years. Such provision for the appointment of Additional Judges of High
Courts appears to have been made by this Act for the first time. 1049. Section 220 of the Government of India Act, 1935 as it was originally
enacted provided that every High Court was to consist of a Chief Justice
and such other Judges as His Majesty might from time to time consider it
necessary to appoint. It further provided that the Judges so appointed
together with any Additional Judges appointed by the Governor-General in
accordance with law could at no time exceed in number such maximum number
as His Majesty in Council might fix in relation to the High Court
concerned. Under the Government of India Act, 1935 , every Judge of a High
Court held his office until he attained the age of 60 years provided that
he would cease to be a Judge of the High Court if any of the events
mentioned in the proviso to Section 220(2) happened earlier. Section 220 of
the Government of India Act, 1935 underwent subsequently slight
modifications which are of no materiality for the present purpose. Section
222 of the Government of India Act, 1935 which provided for the appointment
of temporary and Additional Judges of a High Court read immediately prior
to the commencement of the Constitution as follows : (2) If the office of any other Judge of a High Court becomes vacant, or if
any such Judge is appointed to act temporarily as a Chief Justice, or is by
reason of absence, or for any other reason, unable to perform the duties of
his office, the Governor-General may in his discretion appoint a person
duly qualified for appointment as a Judge to act as a Judge of that Court,
and the person so appointed shall, unless the Governor-General in his
discretion thinks fit to revoke his appointment, be deemed to be a Judge of
that Court until some person appointed by His Majesty to the vacant office
has entered on the duties thereof, or until the permanent Judge has resumed
his duties. (3) If by reason of any temporary increase in the business of any High
Court or by reason of arrears of work in any such Court it appears to the
Governor-General that the number of the Judges of the Court should be for
the time being increased, the Governor-General in his discretion may,
subject to the foregoing provisions of this chapter with respect to the
maximum number of Judges, appoint persons duly qualified for appointment as
Judges to be Additional Judges of the Court for such period not exceeding
two years as he may specify. 1050. Article 166 of the Draft prepared by the Constitutional Advisor more
or less adopted the language of Section 222 of the Government of India Act,
1935 with some modifications. The Drafting Committee, however, redrafted Article 166 of the Draft Constitution prepared by the Constitutional
Adviser by splitting it into two articles i.e. Article 198 and 199. The
redrafted Articles 198 and 199 of the Draft Constitution read as follows : (2) (a) When the office of any other Judge of a High Court is vacant or
when any such Judge is appointed to act temporarily as a Chief Justice or
is unable to perform the duties of his office by reason of absence or
otherwise, the President may appoint a person duly qualified for
appointment as a Judge to act as a Judge of that Court. (b) The person appointed shall, while so acting, be deemed to be a Judge of
the Court. (c) Nothing contained in this clause shall prevent the President from
revoking any appointment made under this clause. 199. If by reason of any temporary increase in the business of any High
Court or by reason of arrears of work in any such court, it appears to the
President that the number of the Judges of the court should be for the time
being increased, the President may, subject to the foregoing provisions of
this Chapter with respect to the maximum number of Judges, appoint persons
duly qualified for appointment as Judges to be Additional Judges of the
court for such period not exceeding two years as he may specify. 1051. The Drafting Committee also introduced one more article i.e. Article
200 providing for the attendance of retired Judges at sittings of High
Courts which conformed to the practice in the United Kingdom and in the
United States of America. That Article read : 1052. At the conference of the Federal Court Judges and Chief Justices of
the High Courts which met in March, 1948, it was recommended that Article
198(2)(c) of the Draft Constitution which empowered the President to revoke
the appointment of an acting Judge appointed under Article 198(2)(a) should
be omitted. 1053. The Drafting Committee received at this juncture a number of
representations to delete the article providing for the appointment of
Additional Judges and acting Judges. The comments of Tej Bahadur Sapru on
the practice of Additional Judges or acting Judges resuming practice after
a short stay on the Bench were telling. He said : (2) When any Judge of a High Court other than the Chief is by reason of
absence or for any other reason unable to perform the duties of his office
or is appointed to act temporarily as Chief Justice, the President may
appoint a duly qualified person to act as a Judge of that Court until the
permanent Judge has resumed his duties. (3) No person appointed as an Additional or acting Judge of a High Court
shall hold office after attaining the age of sixty years. 1055. Article 217(1) was simultaneously amended in order to make the
procedure of the appointment of permanent Judges applicable to Additional
and acting Judges too. After amendment, Article 217(1) reads : 1056. The original Article 224 which was replaced by the new Article 224 was again reintroduced as Article 224-A dp the Constitution (Fifteenth
Amendment) Act, 1963 again providing for the attendance of retired Judges
at sittings of High Courts. Simultaneously Article 217(1) was amended
substituting "sixty-two years" in the place of "sixty years" in it. Clause
(3) or Article 224 was also amended by substituting "sixty-two years" in
the place of "sixty years". This completes the history of Article 224 of
the Constitution.1057. What is the true meaning of Article 224(1) ? It
empowers the President to appoint duly qualified persons to be Additional
Judges, if it appears to him by reason of any temporary increase in the
business of a High Court or by reason of arrears of work therein that the
number of Judges of that Court should for the time being be increased. The
two occasions when an Additional Judge can be appointed are those mentioned
in Article 224(1) of the Constitution , namely, (i) a temporary increase in
its business or (ii) accumulation of arrears of work in the High Court
concerned. Article 224(1) is not, therefore, intended for meeting a
situation where the work of the High Court is gradually on the increase
requiring the appointment of more number of permanent Judges. The reasons
for the increase in the work of the High Courts according to the Fourteenth
Report of the Law Commission were : This position accordingly necessitates a thorough revision of existing
ideas regarding the number of Judges required for each High Court. The
strength of some of the High Courts has been increased from time to time.
In doing this, however, the post-Constitutional developments which have
thrown a much heavier burden on the High Courts have, in our view, not been
adequately taken into account. To expect the existing number of Judges in
the various High Courts to deal efficiently with the vastly increased
volume of work is, in our opinion, to ask them to attempt the impossible.
As pointed out to us by a senior counsel, if there is a congestion on the
roads due to an increase in traffic, the remedy in not to blame the traffic
but to widen the roads.The first essential therefore, is to see that the
strength of every High Court is maintained at a level so as to be adequate
to dispose of what may be called its normal institutions. The normal
strength of a High Court must be fixed on the basis of the average annual
institutions of all types of proceedings in a particular High Court during
the last three years. This is essential in order to prevent what may be
termed the current file of the Court falling into arrears and adding to the
pile of old cases. The problem of clearing the arrears can be
satisfactorily dealt with only after the normal strength of each Court has
been brought up to the level required to cope with its normal institutions.
We suggest that the required strength of the High Court of each State
should be fixed in consultation with the Chief Justice of that State and
the Chief Justice of India and the strength so fixed should be reviewed at
an interval of two or three years. Such a review will be necessary not only
by reason of changing conditions but because the implementation of our
recommendations made elsewhere will lead to a quicker disposal of work in
the subordinate courts which, in its turn, will result in an increase in
the work of the High Courts. 57. We are of the view that the provisions of Article 224 of the
Constitution should be availed of and Additional Judges be appointed for
the specific purpose of dealing with these arrears. The number of such
Additional Judges required for each High Court for the purpose of dealing
with the arrears will have to be fixed in consultation with the Chief
Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the State High Court after taking
into consideration the arrears in the particular Court, their nature and
the average disposal of that Court. The number of Additional Judges to be
fixed for this purpose should be such as to enable the arrears to be
cleared within a period of two years. The Additional Judges so appointed
should, in our view, be utilised as far as possible exclusively for the
purpose of disposing of arrears and not be diverted to the disposal of
current work. Pari passu with the disposal of the arrears, the permanent
strength of the High Court will have to be brought up to and maintained at
the required level, care being taken to see that their normal disposal
keeps pace with the new institutions and that they are not allowed to
develop into arrears. The appointment of Additional Judges for the
exclusive purpose of dealing with the arrears is, in our view, called for
in a large number of High Courts.1060. The practice that grew in the High
Courts was, however, different. Article 224(1) was treated as the gateway
through which almost every Judge had to pass before being made permanent.
It is indeed disturbing to notice that some Judges before they were made
permanent had functioned as Additional Judges for nearly five years. 1061. Article 217(1) of the Constitution lays down the procedure to be
followed in making the appointment of a Judge of a High Court. The
President can appoint a High Court Judge after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in the case of appointment
of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High
Court. Article 217(1) as it was originally enacted referred to the
appointment of permanent Judges only as there was no provision in the
Constitution then to the appointment of Additional or acting Judges. When
the new Article 224 of the Constitution was substituted in the place of the
Original Article 224 by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 providing for the appointment of Additional and acting Judges, Article
217(1) also was amended requiring the appointment of Additional and acting
Judges also in the same manner, the only distinction maintained between the
permanent Judges and the additional and acting Judges being the one
relating to their tenure. A permanent Judge is entitled to be in office
till he attains the age of 62 years whereas the tenure of an Additional or
acting Judge is as specified by the President under Article 224(1) or Article 224(2) of the Constitution as the case may be. It is, however, to
be noted that the Constitution does not prescribe any difference in the
mode of appointment of a permanent Judge or of an Additional or an acting
Judge. All of them should satisfy the same tests as to their fitness to be
appointed as Judges irrespective of the fact whether they are appointed as
permanent Judges or as Additional or acting Judges. We shall hereinafter
confine our attention to the appointment of permanent Judges and Additional
Judges only.1061A. Article 216 of the Constitution reads : 1062. It is well known that with the increase of the population and the
number of laws and with the changes brought about in the economic, social
and political life of the people, litigation in all courts has been
continuously increasing. Naturally the number of cases filed in the High
Courts which happen to be the highest courts in the case of a large number
of matters have gone on growing. From the statements filed on behalf of the
Central Government along with the affidavit dated August 29, 1981 of Shri
T. N. Chaturvedi, Secretary (Justice), Government of India, the following
facts emerge : When it is not disputed that a Judge appointed under Article 224(1) of the
Constitution is not a Judge on probation, what is the advantage of
appointing Additional Judges when there is need to appoint more permanent
Judges ? Surely there is no financial gain to the Government as the
expenditure involved is almost the same whether a Judge is an Additional
Judge or a permanent Judge. On the other hand, the appointment of
Additional Judges even where permanent Judges are needed leads to two
important disadvantages. First, the periodic processing of the papers
relating to the renewal of the term of an Additional Judge consumes a lot
of time of the high functionaries who have to be consulted under Article
217(1). Secondly, an Additional Judge concerned will not be able to deal
with the matters as independently as a permanent Judge can. Because the
conduct of an Additional Judge would become subject to scrutiny by the
Chief Justice of the High Court, the Governor, the Chief Justice of India
and the President in connection with his reappointment just when his tenure
specified under Article 224(1) is about to come to a close, it is natural
that he would not be able to deal with the matters placed before him
without fear of incurring the displeasure of any one of them. We have to
bear in mind that the State and the Central Government are the biggest
litigants in every High Court and orders passed by an Additional Judge are
sure to displease them in one way or the other. It is no doubt true that an
Additional Judge takes the oath of office to deal with the matters without
fear or favour, and affection or ill will, but we should remember that he
is after all a human being. If an advocate who is at the age of about 45
years, is appointed as an Additional Judge for two years, what should he do
if at the end of two years he is dropped on the ground that he is not fit
for being continued as a Judge ? Having burnt his boats at the Bar, should
he make fresh efforts to re-establish himself in the Bar ? Will not his
position be made more difficult if he is sent back with a label that he was
not found fit to be continued as a Judge ? Similarly in the case of a
District Judge who is promoted as a High Court Judge, should he go back as
a District Judge at the end of the tenure fixed under Article 224(1) ? Probably having in view all these difficulties at the time when the
Constitution was enacted, no provision was made for appointing Additional
Judges. It was no doubt introduced in 1956 to meet emergencies arising out
of sudden increase in arrears of cases. Article 224(1) was never intended
for appointing almost every Judge first as an Additional Judge and then as
a permanent Judge. A perusal of the list of Judges of the High Courts
maintained by the Government shows that not less than 4/5th of the Judges
have been initially appointed as Additional Judges and then as permanent
Judges. Only 1/5th of them are appointed as permanent Judges initially.
This may be due to the existence of vacancies in the permanent strength
when they were appointed as Judges. The sanctioned strength of permanent
Judges, however, at no time represented the true position as it is found
that always the permanent strength fell short of the requisite number. This
is not a happy position at all but this is not all. Judges whose tenure is
not assured as in the case of permanent Judges but whose continuance in
office after the specified period is subject to the will of any other
authority generally do not inspire confidence in the litigant public also.
The decision of this Court in Krishan Gopal v. Prakashchandra supports this statement.
That was a case where the appellant had questioned the jurisdiction of a
retired Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court who had been requested to
function as a Judge under Article 224-A of the Constitution to try an
election petition. This Court negatived that contention of the appellant
holding that a retired Judge functioning under Article 224-A had all the
powers and jurisdiction of a sitting Judge. This Court also negatived
another contention of the appellant which had been urged in support of the
appeal. The appeal should have, therefore, been dismissed. The operative
part of the judgment, however, was entirely different. It reads at SCR page
215 thus : (SCC pp. 137-38, para 23)The two legal contentions which have
been advanced on behalf of the appellant, in our opinion, are not well
founded, and we have no hesitation to repel them. All the same, looking to
the special facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the opinion
that it is fit and proper and in the interest of justice that the election
petition filed by the appellant be tried by another learned judge of the
High Court who may be assigned for the purpose by the Chief Justice of that
Court. It seems indeed desirable that election petitions should ordinarily,
if possible, be entrusted for trial to a permanent Judge of the High Court
even though we find that Additional or acting Judges or those requested
under Article 224-A of the Constitution to sit and act as Judges of the
High Court, if assigned for the purpose by the Chief Justice, are legally
competent to hear those matters. We, therefore, set aside the order dated
August 20, 1973. The election petition filed by the appellant shall now be
heard by a permanent Judge who may be assigned for the purpose by the
learned Chief Justice. The case may, therefore, be placed before the
learned Chief Justice for necessary orders. The appeal is accepted
accordingly. The parties in the circumstances shall bear their own costs of
this Court and in the High Court. 1065. What does this decision mean ? Additional or acting Judges appointed
under Article 224(1) and (2) or retired Judges requested under Article 224-
A of the Constitution are looked at with suspicion even by this Court. Why
? The reason is obvious. This Court felt that cases like election petitions
which had political overtones should not be entrusted to Additional Judges
or acting Judges whose tenure was dependent upon the pleasure of the
Government which had the power to withhold its consent to the fresh
appointments of the Judges concerned to be made at the end of the period
specified under Article 224. Is this not sufficient to hold that by
constantly resorting to Article 224(1) where it could not be done, the
Government has created a second class of Judges in the High Courts even
though as we are aware their integrity, character and erudition are beyond
question ? The answer has to be in the affirmative.1066. The appointment of
a retired Judge whose tenure was at the pleasure of the Government to try
criminal cases was found to be violative of Article 21 of the Constitution
by Chandrachud, C.J. in In re The Special Courts Bill, 1978 case . In that
connection, the learned Chief Justice observed at SCR pages 549-550 thus : 1082. If this is the position in the case of laws relating to promises of
private individuals, the position in the case of an appointment under the
Constitution would be weaker still unless there is any provision in the
Constitution which expressly or by necessary intendment binds the authority
concerned to act in a particular way. 1083. When the Chief Justice of a High Court feels that a member of the Bar
should be invited to accept the post of a Judge of the High Court, after
obtaining the consent of such advocate, he recommends that his case may be
considered for appointment as a permanent or as an Additional Judge
depending on the vacancy which has to be filled up by such appointment. It
is stated that in some High Courts including the Delhi High Court an
undertaking would be taken from the advocate concerned when his name is
recommended for the post of an Additional Judge that he would accept the
post of a permanent Judge if offered before the expiry of the term of
appointment as Additional Judge. Even though such practice of taking an
undertaking is not shown to be prevailing in all the High Courts, it is
seen that a suggestion had been made by K. N. Wanchoo, Chief Justice of
India, in 1967 that such an undertaking should be taken. K. N. Wanchoo,
C.J. recorded a note on June 29, 1967 as follows :When a member of the Bar
is appointed Additional Judge, it must be with a view to making him
permanent in the course. If that is not possible, additional judgeship
should not be offered to a member of the Bar. I agree therefore that a
undertaking should be taken from the members of the Bar that they will
accept a permanent judgeship when offered to them in due course. . . 1084. As stated elsewhere the provision for appointment of Additional
Judges was included in the Constitution by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956 . From that time onwards nearly 500 persons have been
appointed as Judges of High Courts. About one-fifth of them were initially
appointed as permanent Judges and the rest were appointed initially as
Additional Judges for a certain term and thereafter appointed as permanent
Judges. Some of them were appointed as Additional Judges twice or thrice
before they were made permanent. Only a few of them were not made
permanent, either because they had attained the age of retirement or they
had resigned or for some other reason. The number of persons who were not
made permanent on the ground that they were found unfit when their cases
for reappointment were considered appears to be almost insignificant as it
may not be more than five. But at no time the action of the Government in
not reappointing an Additional Judge as a permanent Judge was questioned
before any Court as it is now done in these cases. 1085. What is to be noticed is that in almost every High Court a few posts
have been kept as sanctioned posts of Additional Judges as if they were
part of the total strength. The result has been that unless all the
sanctioned posts of Additional Judges and at least one post of a permanent
Judge have fallen vacant at a given point of time any new Judge appointed
on that occasion being the juniormost has to be appointed as an Additional
Judge and later on appointed as a permanent Judge when a vacancy arises in
the permanent strength after all other Additional Judges senior to him have
been absorbed as permanent Judges. Such a thing could not have happened
before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 came into force. At
that time every Judge of a High Court had to be appointed only as a
permanent Judge without any need for scrutinising his case again for
purposes of reappointment as Additional Judge or permanent Judge.1086. From
the information made available to the Court, it appears that subject to
just exceptions in almost all the High Courts if a realistic review of the
present strength is made the total number of permanent Judges needed will
be much more than the existing number of permanent Judges and Additional
Judges. This must have been the position for some years past. But still
instead of increasing the number of posts of permanent Judges and making
appointments to them the practice of inducting a new member as an
Additional Judge first and making him permanent later on has been continued
quite contrary to the letter and spirit of Article 216 and Article 224(1) of the Constitution. Since invariably an Additional Judge has been
appointed as a permanent Judge in due course except in some rare cases,
every member who is appointed as an Additional Judge and who has not
completed the age of retirement expects that he will be made permanent as
and when a vacancy arises in the permanent strength and will be continued
as an Additional Judge by fresh appointments until such vacancy arises
provided the arrears in the High Court requiring his continuance as an
Additional Judge persist. It cannot be said that such expectation on the
part of an Additional Judge is not well founded. In addition to such
settled expectation on the part of the Additional Judge, as the learned
Attorney-General has submitted, even on the part of the Government there
has always been reluctance to send back an Additional Judge to the Bar
after the completion of his term specified under Article 224(1) and to lose
the services of a Judge with experience. These twin factors namely the
expectation on the part of the Additional Judge and the reluctance on the
part of the Government distinguish the case of an Additional Judge from the
case of a new member who may be a competitor for the same post at the
termination of the tenure of the Additional Judge. Ordinarily the
Additional Judge is continued in service as a Judge or as an Additional
Judge unless there are any relevant circumstances which would outweigh the
above-mentioned factors. In the absence of any such cogent reasons for not
appointing him again, the appointment of somebody else in his place would
be an unreasonable or perverse act which entitles an Additional Judge to
move the Court for appropriate relief in the peculiar circumstances in
which Article 224(1) is being operated till now.1087. At this stage an
allied contention urged in this connection may be disposed of. That
contention is that an Additional Judge cannot be dropped without giving him
a reasonable opportunity of being heard in accordance with the principles
of natural justice. We do not find any merit in this contention since the
wide discretionary power of appointment exercisable by the President in the
public interest under Article 217(1) is indicative of the absence of an
obligation to act judicially [vide para 65, Vol. I of Halsbury's Laws of
England (4th Edn.)]. It is seen from the language of that article that the
Constitution has evinced an intention to exclude the operation of the rule
of audi alteram partem by conferring on the President unfettered
discretionary power subject only to the prescribed procedure of
consultation mentioned therein. (Vide HALSBURY'S LAWS OF ENGLAND, 4TH Edn.,
Vol. 1, para 74) Having regard to the high office to which appointment has
to be made under Article 217(1) of the Constitution and to the association
of the high dignitaries who have to be consulted before any such
appointment is made the application of principles of natural justice as of
right is ruled out and non-compliance with such principles would not
vitiate the decision. But it may still be shown on the available material
that there was no cogent reason for the decision. 1088. It is argued on behalf of the Government that there is no precedent
in administrative law to such a conclusion being reached. There cannot be a
precedent in England, in the United States of America and in Australia as
there are no Additional Judges in those countries of the type we are having
in India and in India too we do not have a precedent because no such case
has come up before the Court so far. This case is indeed an extraordinary
one. This Court, however, is under a duty to do complete justice when a
matter comes before it. What kind of relief should be granted in such a
case is governing by the facts and circumstances of the case and the legal
provisions governing it. If the problem is a new one a new solution has to
be evolved. A Judge who has cultivated assiduously a sense of right and
wrong sometimes may even depend upon his hunch while moulding the relief to
be granted in a given case. It is a part of the judging process. The
following words of Judge Hutcheson are illuminating indeed. He tells us :I
must premise that I speak now of the judgment or decision, the solution
itself, as opposed to the apologia for that decision; the decree, as
opposed to the logomachy, the effusion of the judge by which that decree is
explained or excused... The judge really decides by feeling and not by
judgment, by hunching and not by ratiocination, such ratiocination
appearing only in the opinion. The vital motivating impulse for the
decision is an intuitive sense of what is right or wrong in the particular
case; and the astute judge, having so decided, enlists his every faculty
and belabors his laggard mind, not only to justify that intuition to
himself, but to make it pass muster with his criticism. Accordingly, he
passes in review all of the rules, principles, legal categories, and
concepts "which he may find useful, directly or by an analogy, so as to
select from them those which in his opinion will justify his desired
result". (See Jerome Frank : LAW AND THE MODERN MIND, 1963, p. 112)

1089. The following observations of Denning, L.J. (as he then was) in
Candler v. Crane Christmas & Co. [1951] 2 K.B. 164, 178 : [1951] 1 All E.R.
426(CA)), though in the minority are also relevant here. He observed : 1091. On the facts and in the peculiar circumstances of the case, the only
thing which the Court can do here is to examine the material before it in
order to ascertain whether the refusal to reappoint the Additional Judge
concerned is based on any relevant grounds or not and to mould the relief
on the basis of the finding on the above question by applying the relevant
principles of administrative law. Any relief beyond this would be
impermissible in view of the language of the relevant provisions of the
Constitution. It is however made clear that even this limited enquiry is
made possible only on account of the wrong application of Article 224(1) of
the Constitution all these years. A similar enquiry may not be possible in
the case of Additional Judges to be appointed hereafter. PART VII

1092. It is interesting to trace the history of the provision relating to
the transfer of Judges from one High Court to another. The Draft
Constitution of India did not contain any provision providing for such
transfer. Clause (c) of the proviso to Article 193(1) of the Draft
Constitution merely stated that the office of the Judge shall be vacated by
his being appointed by the President to be a Judge of the Supreme Court or
of any other High Court. When two members of the Constituent Assembly Shri
R. R. Diwakar and Shri S. V. Krishnamurthy Rao moved an amendment to clause
(1) of Article 193 of the Draft Constitution of adding clause (d) which
read as "(d) every judge shall be liable to be transferred to other High
Courts" it was recorded that there was no need for the amendment as clause (c) of the proviso to Article 193(1) of the Constitution provided that the
office of a Judge shall be vacated by his being appointed to be a Judge of
another High Court. Perhaps the present Article 222 of the Constitution was
not in view at that stage (see B. Shiva Rao : The Framing of India's
Constitution, Vol. IV, p. 165). The note made by the Drafting Committee on
the proposal of the Home Ministry that a convention should be established
whereby a proportion of Judges in every High Court could be recruited from
outside the Province stated that there was no bar to the recruitment of
Judges of High Court in any Province from outside the Province or to the
transfer of a Judge of a High Court to another High Court and a convention
might be established whereby a proportion of Judges of a High Court could
be recruited from outside the Province. (B. Shiva Rao : The Framing of
India's Constitution, Vol. IV, p. 166) In view of the suggestions made in
the course of the discussion on the Draft Constitution, the Drafting
Committee incorporated in the Revised Draft, Article 222 which read as
follows : (2) When a Judge is so transferred, he shall, during the period he serves
as a Judge of the other Court, be entitled to receive in addition to his
salary such compensatory allowances as may be determined by Parliament by
law and until so determined, such compensatory allowance as the President
may by order fix. 1093. In the letter dated November 3, 1949, forwarding the Revised Draft to
the President of the Constituent Assembly referring to the newly added Article 222 , the Drafting Committee observed thus : Consequently Article 217 was also suitably amended by introducing the word
'transferred' in proviso (c) to clause (1) thereof. In defence of Article
222 and in particular of clause (2) of that article providing for payment
of compensatory allowance to a Judge who is transferred from one High Court
to another High Court, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar spoke in the Constituent Assembly
before Article 222 was passed thus : (2) When a Judge has been or is so transferred, he shall, during the period
he serves, after the commencement of the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment)
Act, 1963 , as a Judge of the other High Court, be entitled to receive in
addition to his salary such compensatory allowance as may be determined by
Parliament by law and, until so determined, such compensatory allowance as
the President may by order fix. 1097. This leads to the question whether under Article 222 of the
Constitution, the consent of a Judge of a High Court is necessary to
transfer him from one High Court to another High Court. The majority
judgment of this Court in Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth holds that the
consent of a Judge for his transfer from one High Court another High Court
is not necessary. It is, however, contended before us that the said
interpretation of Article 222 is erroneous as it would affect adversely the
independence of the judiciary. It is significant that Article 222 does not
state in express terms that the consent of the Judge concerned is a
prerequisite for his transfer. In places where consent of a Judge is needed
the Constitution has stated that such consent should be obtained from the
Judge concerned (vide proviso to Article 128 and proviso to Article 224-A of the Constitution ). Under Article 127(1) of the Constitution if at any
time there is no quorum of the Judges of the Supreme Court available to
hold or to continue any session of the Court, the Chief Justice of India
may with previous consent of the President and after consultation with the
Chief Justice of the High Court concerned request in writing the attendance
at the sittings of the Supreme Court as an ad hoc Judge for such period as
may be necessary of a Judge of a High Court duly qualified for appointment
as a Judge of the Supreme Court to be designated by the Chief Justice of
India. Clause (2) of Article 127 makes it obligatory on the part of the
High Court Judge who is so designated to attend the sittings of the Supreme
Court in priority to other duties of his office at the time and for the
period for which his attendance is required and while so attending he shall
have all the jurisdiction, powers and privileges and shall discharge the
duties of a Judge of the Supreme Court. It is significant that Article 127 does not require the consent of the Judge to be designated under Article
127(1) to be obtained before asking him to function as an ad hoc Judge of
the Supreme Court even though it may involve the shifting of his residence
during the period specified in the letter of request sent to him under Article 127(1). A Judge of a High Court may have to be shifted from one
place to another when the reorganisation of the State in which the High
Court is situated takes place even though such shifting may not strictly
amount to a transfer under Article 222 (see V. B. Raju v. State of Gujarat and such
shifting may not depend upon the willingness of the Judge concerned. It
cannot be said that any transfer or shifting of a Judge without his consent
would amount to a punishment and would interfere with the independence of
the Judge concerned or of the judiciary. If the requirement of the consent
of the Judge in question is read into Article 222 then the power conferred
on the President ceases to be a power in the jurisprudential sense. A power
is defined by Salmond as ability conferred on a person by the law to alter,
by his own will directed to that end the rights, duties, liabilities or
other legal relations either of himself or of other persons. Powers are
either public or private. The former are those which are vested in a person
as an agent or instrument of the functions of the State. We are not here
concerned with the latter class. If Articles 222 is construed as requiring
the consent of a Judge to be transferred then the power of the President
can be neutralised by the Judge withholding consent.Such a construction
would virtually confer on an unwilling Judge an immunity against the
exercise of the power by the President under Article 222 even though public
interest demands the transfer of the Judges. Article 222 would in that case become almost ineffective. That being so, such a construction has to be
avoided. 1098. One other reason which prompts me to say so is as follows : By way of
comparison we may refer here to some of the provisions of the Supreme Court
of Judicature (Consolidation) Act, 1925 (15 & 16 Geo. 5. c. 49) of England
which appears to have been used as a model for some of the relevant
provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935 and of the Constitution. Section 3 of that Act corresponds to Article 224-A of the Constitution. Section 7 of that Act corresponds to Article 127 and Section 8 of that Act
corresponds to Article 128. Section 4(1) of that Act provides for the
establishment of three Divisions of the High Court and they are now called
the Chancery Division, the King's Bench Division (now called the Queen's
Bench Division) and the Family Division (formerly known as the Probate,
Divorce and Admiralty Division). Section 4(2) of that Act which provides
for the attachment of a puisne Judge to one of the above said three
Divisions and his transfer from one Division to another reads : section (2) of Section two hundred and twenty of the principal Act (which
relates to the term of office of Judges of High Courts) there shall be
added the following paragraph : 1104. Section 6 of the said amending Act of 1944 provided that the above
amendment made by Section 2 thereof in the principal Act should be deemed
to have been therein immediately before the passing thereof and thus the
newly added clause (c) of the proviso to Section 220(2) was given
restrospective effect. Then reliance is placed on the speech of Earl of
Munster made on July 4, 1944 in the House of Lords in support of the Bill
which later became the said amending Act, the relevant part of which read
thus : Attorney-General, [1930] 1 Ch. 566, 593)

1107. In Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes (12th Edn.) it is stated
at pages 9-10 thus : Schildkamp [1971] A.C. 1, 28 : [1969] 3 All E.R. 1640 : [1970] 2 W.L.R. 279
(HL)) : (All ER p. 1641)

But it may be more realistic to accept the Act as printed as being the
product of the whole legislative process, and to give due weight to
everything found in the printed Act. I say more realistic because in very
many cases the provision before the court was never even mentioned in
debate in either House, and it may be that its wording was never closely
scrutinised by any member of either House. In such a case it is not very
meaningful to say that the words of the Act represent the intention of
Parliament but the punctuation, cross-heading and side-notes do not.1109.
In Bhinka v. Charan Singh , Subba Rao, J. (as he then was) observed thus : (iii) joining time on transfer from a High Court to the Supreme Court or
from one High Court to another. 1114. The contention is that since a High Court Judge can become a Judge of
the Supreme Court only by a fresh appointment and that in paragraph 11(b) (iii) of the Second Schedule to the Constitution the word 'transfer' is
used to denote such appointment, it should be held that even when a High
Court Judge is transferred to another High Court he must be deemed to have
been appointed afresh in the Court to which he is transferred and because
it is a fresh appointment his consent is necessary as it is needed under Article 217(1). In support of this submission reliance is placed on another
part of Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes (12th Edn) at page 286
where it is stated thus : 1117. Clause (c) of the proviso to Article 193(1) of the Draft Constitution
which did not contain a provision for the transfer of High Court Judges
read as follows : 1118. In the Revised Draft Constitution which was submitted to the
Constituent Assembly on November 3, 1949, in which a provision for transfer
had been included in Article 222 , clause (c) of the proviso to Article
217(1) which almost remained unaffected read as : 1119. But on November 16, 1949 the above clause was amended at the stage of
the third reading of the Constitution emphasizing the difference between
'appointed' and 'transferred' and in order to bring it in accord with Article 222 which provided for transfer of High Court Judges. After the
amendment it read as under : The next contention urged against the correctness of the majority decision
in Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth , is the
one that appealed to Untwalia, J. in that case , namely, that a transferred
Judge cannot become a Judge of the High Court to which he is transferred
without taking a fresh oath in accordance with Article 219 of the
Constitution in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule to the
Constitution. The gist of the argument may be summarised thus : Article 219 provides that every person appointed to be a Judge of a High Court shall
before he enters upon his office, make and subscribe before the Governor of
the State, or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or
affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third
Schedule to the Constitution. The form of the oath in the case of Judges of
High Court reads : eminently in public interest, it will be impossible to achieve that purpose
if a Judge cannot be transferred without his consent. His personal interest
may lie in continuing in a Court where his private interest will be served
best, whereas, public interest may required that his moorings ought to be
served to act as a reminder that "the place of justice is a hallowed
place". 1133. In Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth ,: AlR 1977 SC 2328)
the main question for determination was whether a Judge could be
transferred at all without his consent. The majority reached the conclusion
that he could be transferred in public interest without his consent. The
Court was not specifically concerned with the question whether such
transfer could take place on a ground which could be the basis for
Parliamentary proceedings for the removal of a Judge under Article 218 read
with Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution. Since this question has
been directly raised in this case it requires to be examined more closely
having regard to the scheme of the constitutional provisions. 1134. Clause (b) of the proviso to Article 217(1) of the Constitution
states that a Judge of a High Court may be removed from his office by the
President in the manner provided in clause (4) of Article 124 of the
Constitution for the removal of a Judge of the Supreme Court. Article 218 of the Constitution provides that the provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in
relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of references to the
High Court for references to the Supreme Court. Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read as follows : (5) Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an
address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or
incapacity of a Judge under clause (4). 1135. Clause (5) of Article 124 authorises the Parliament by law to
regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for
investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under
clause (4) thereof. In exercise of the said power Parliament has enacted
the Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968 (51 of 1968)which is applicable to Judges of
both the Supreme Court and High Courts. The procedure prescribed by that
Act is an elaborate one. 1136. Sections 3 to 6 of the above said Act lay down inter alia that the
proceedings for removal of a Judge can be commenced with a notice of motion
for presentation of an address to the President praying for the removal of
a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the case of a notice
given in the Lok Sabha, signed by not less than one hundred members of that
House and in the case of a notice given in the Rajya Sabha, by not less
than fifty members of that House. The next step is the consideration of the
said notice by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha or the Chairman of the Rajya
Sabha as the case may be who may on the basis of the material before him
either admit the motion or refuse to admit it. If the notice is admitted,
the Speaker or the Chairman should keep the motion pending and constitute a
committee of three members of whom one should be chosen from among the
Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court, one from among the
Chief Justices of the High Courts and one person who in the opinion of the
Speaker or the Chairman, as the case may be, is a distinguished jurist. If
notices of motion are given on the same day in both the Houses, no
committee can be constituted unless the motion has been admitted in both
the Houses and if it is so admitted by both the Houses then the committee
should be constituted jointly by the Speaker and the Chairman. The
committee so constituted has to frame charges and hold an enquiry in
accordance with the procedure prescribed therefor. At the conclusion of the
enquiry if the committee reports that the Judge is not guilty of the
charges, the motion pending in the House cannot be proceeded with. If the
committee finds that the Judge against whom the enquiry is instituted is
guilty of any misbehaviour or suffers from any incapacity then the motion
should be taken up for consideration by the House concerned. If thereafter
the motion is adopted by each House of Parliament supported by a majority
of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting and an address
is presented to the President in the prescribed manner by each House of
Parliament in the same session, a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High
Court can be removed from office.1137. We are concerned here with the
transfer of a Judge whose stock-in-trade - if we may use this expression,
is his reputation. People accept the decision of a Judge not because his
decision is always correct but because it is rendered by a person known for
his wisdom, integrity, character and impartiality. It is only on account of
these qualities of a Judge, people have faith in the judiciary. The
litigants naturally expect the presiding officer of a Court to be a
virtuous person. If there is a slight rumour which would adversely affect
his reputation, he ceases to command the respect of the people. Even a
correct judgment given by a Judge who is transferred would be viewed with
suspicion, if it is known that a Judge, whose character and conduct are not
above reproach is liable to be transferred from one High Court to another
High Court, even when his transfer is effected in the public interest and
not on the ground of his character or conduct. Then, how can a Judge who is
transferred command the respect of the Bar and the people in the State to
which he is transferred when his moral personality stands destroyed by the
very act of transfer unless the order of transfer carries a postscript that
he is not being transferred on any ground of misbehaviour or incapacity ? 1138. The following words of the Bhagavad Gita are quite relevant here : 1147. The 80th Report of the Law Commission observed in Chapter VI thus : power bodies earlier. 1149. The States Reorganisation Commission presided over by Justice S. Fazl
Ali, former Judge of the Supreme Court of India in its Report prepared in
the year 1955 observed at Paragraph 861 thus : 1150. In para 58 of the Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations given at
the end of its Report, the States Reorganisation Commission recommended : (Paragraph 861)1151. The Study Team on Centre-State Relationships (Shri M.
C. Setalvad, former Attorney-General was the Chairman of the Team)
appointed by the Administrative Reforms Commission also considered the
question of appointment of High Court Judges in its Report submitted in the
year 1968. Dealing with the recommendations of the States Reorganisation
Commission on the above questions, the Study Team observed : third of the number of Judges of a High Court will come from outside. This
cannot seriously affect the prestige and authority of the High Courts and
the Chief Justices. Besides, any fancied diminution in the position of the
Chief Justice on account of this one-third component from outside will be
offset by the fact that candidates from his State may be going to other
High Courts through a selection procedure in which he is associated. (Vide
Report of the Study Team on Centre-State Relations, Vol. I, pp. 188-190)

1152. Accordingly the Study Team recommended at page 195 of Volume I of its
Report that as far as practicable, one-third of the number of Judges of a
High Court should be from outside. 1153. It appears from paragraph 13.21 of Volume I of the Report of the
Study Team that the Chief Justices themselves had pressed for the
transferability and the formation of an all-India cadre of Judges. The
relevant part of that paragraph reads : 1154. The foregoing shows that the Chief Justices did not find anything
objectionable in the transfers of Judges provided they were made in
accordance with Article 222 of the Constitution. The Study Team, however,
followed the recommendation made in the Fourteenth Report of the Law
Commission but added : 1158. Article 51-A of the Constitution which lays down the fundamental
duties of the citizens of India was introduced into the Constitution with
effect from January 3, 1977 probably to remind Indians of certain values
which they were slowly neglecting during the period of thirty years
following the independence of the country. Even in the year 1963 itself by
the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 , the form of oath to be
taken by a Judge which is set out in the Third Schedule to the Constitution
was amended by adding the words "that I will upheld the sovereignty and
integrity of India". The preamble of the Constitution was amended with
effect from January 3, 1977 by substituting the words "unity and integrity
of the nation" in the place of the words "unity of the nation" which were
there earlier. These amendments had to be made to fight the divisive forces
which were raising their ugly heads in different corners of India. The
nation should be grateful to the makers of the Constitution for enacting
the provisions relating to the Indian judiciary which have brought into
existence an unitary judicial system in a federal Constitution. Law
(dharma) has always been an unifying force in India. The entire country
from Kashmir to Kanyakumari possesses this great inner bond of unity.
Judges and lawyers who are the votaries of Indian law should feel proud of
their heritage. Just as the Indian soldier feels proud of defending the
borders of the country treating the whole country as a single unit, Judges
and lawyers should feel that they are a part of a single judicial system
operating throughout India and that they are not just members of one State
or another. They should be prepared to work in any part of India
irrespective of the one State in which they are born or brought up. Today
no High Court can afford to remain isolated from other High Courts as a
judicial island. Lawyers and Judges of one High Court should be prepared to
receive with open arms lawyers and Judges of other High Courts. They should
also be prepared to spare the services of their Judges to be utilised in
other High Courts. It is only then that the dream of an integrated Bar and
of an integrated judiciary will be fully realised. The Indian judicial
system in one way is a great forging instrument of unity which, if properly
used, can assist the country in bringing about national integration which
is no longer a mere slogan. National integration is an absolute necessity
now. If national integration is not a matter of public interest, what else
can be in the public interest ?1159. It is difficult to believe that Judges
who day in and day out are applying decisions of English, American and
Australian courts while administering justice will not be able to pick up
the local laws in force in the State in which the High Court to which they
are transferred is situated. Are not the Judges of the Supreme Court who
come from different States deciding cases from all the States in which very
often they have to construe one local law or the other ? The argument that
the efficiency of Judges will suffer if they are transferred is merely an
argument of despair which has got to be rejected. 1160. The plea that a Judge of a High Court should always know the language
of the region is again unsustainable. The Constitution-makers knew that in
India there were a number of regional languages. Yet they enacted Article
222 of the Constitution without any limitation. A Judge of one High Court
who does not know the regional language of another State may be transferred
to the High Court of that State. It is well known that many Britishers who
did not know any Indian language discharged their functions very
efficiently as High Court Judges in India before the commencement of the
Constitution. The language of the High Courts has always been English. Even
after the commencement of the Constitution, many Judges who did not
understand the local language have functioned as High Court Judges to the
satisfaction of all concerned. When the reorganisation of States took place
in 1956, the States Reorganisation Commission consisting of Shri Justice
Fazl Ali, Shri H. N. Kunzru and Shri K. M. Panikkar strongly pleaded as
stated earlier for appointment of at least one-third of Judges of a High
Court from outside the State. English is now the language of the Supreme
Court and all the High Courts. Article 348 of the Constitution reads : It is not possible to hold that the transfers of Judges would be opposed to
the public interest on this ground also. 1162. It is pertinent to deal with a statement made in Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , at SCR page 454 which reads
as follows : (SCC p. 227, para 38)

Policy transfers on a wholesale basis which leave no scope for considering
the facts of each particular case and which are influenced by one-sided
governmental considerations are outside the contemplation of our
Constitution. (Per Chandrachud, J.)

1163. On the basis of this it is argued that policy transfers as such are
not permissible under Article 222 of the Constitution. I do not understand
the above said observations as conveying that meaning and if they so convey
that meaning, then it has to be observed that they are too broadly made.
What the above statement means is that even where a transfer is made
pursuant to a valid policy, each transfer should receive adequate
consideration at the hands of the authorities concerned. All other relevant
matters in relation to the Judge who is proposed to be transferred pursuant
to the policy should be considered before ordering his transfer. If on such
consideration it is found that he should not be transferred, the proposal
should be given up and the question of transferring another Judge in
furtherance of the policy may be taken up for consideration. By doing so
the policy remains unaffected and the public interest to be served by the
policy also would not suffer. But if it is argued that the above statement
bars every transfer made pursuant to a policy which is in the public
interest then it has to be held that to the extent it bars such transfers
is opposed to the provisions of Article 222 which empowers the President to
transfer a Judge after due consultation with the Chief Justice of India, of
course, in the public interest and is thus not binding as such a
construction would curtail the width of the power under Article 222.1164. I
am of the view that in view of the foregoing reasons and opinions expressed
by several expert bodies any transfer of a Judge of a High Court under Article 222 of the Constitution in order to implement the policy of
appointing the Chief Justice of every High Court from outside the State
concerned and of having at least one-third of the Judges of every High
Court from outside the State, of course, after consultation with the Chief
Justice of India would not be unconstitutional. PART VIII

1165. In order to establish their case, learned counsel appearing for Shri
V. M. Tarkunde and Shri S. N. Kumar, called upon the Union Government to
produce the records pertaining to the consultations made by the President
under Article 217(1) of the Constitution insofar as the case of Shri S. N.
Kumar was concerned. The demand made by them was opposed by the Union
Government on the ground of privilege. It was contended by the Union
Government that the documents whose discovery was sought being those
containing communications made by high constitutional functionaries
regarding a high level appointment it would not be proper to compel the
Union Government to produce them. 1166. The question which relates to the circumstances in which the
Government can claim that the documents, the production of which is
demanded before a court of law, should not be compelled to be produced on
the ground of privilege is of great constitutional importance. In Duncan v.
Cammell Laird & Co., Ltd. [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All E.R. 587: 111 LJKB
406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)) decided during the Second World War by the House of
Lords such a question arose for consideration. On June 1, 1939, the
submarine, Thetis, which had been built by the respondents in that case
under contract with the Admiralty was undergoing her submergence tests in
Liverpool Bay, and while engaged in the operation of a trial dive sank to
the bottom owing to the flooding of her two foremost compartments and
failed to return to the surface with the result that all who were in her,
except four survivors were overwhelmed. Ninety-nine men lost their lives. A
large number of actions were instituted by those representing, or dependent
on, some of the deceased against respondents and three other persons
claiming damages for negligence. All of these actions, except two, were
stayed until after the trial of two test actions, which were consolidate,
the plaintiffs in those two test actions being the appellants in the above
case. The respondents in their affidavit of documents objected to produce
certain documents called for by the appellants on the ground that they (the
respondents) had been asked by the Treasury Solicitor on behalf of the
First Lord of the Admiralty not to produce the said documents which had
come into their possession under a contract with the Government and to
claim Crown privilege in respect of them. The First Lord of the Admiralty
also filed an affidavit stating that the documents in question had been
considered by him and he had formed the opinion that it would be injurious
to the public interest that any of the said documents should be disclosed
to any person. The documents, to the production of which objection was thus
taken included (either in original or in copy) the contract for the hull
and machinery of the Thetis, letters written before the disaster relating
to the vessel's trim, reports as to the condition of the Thetis when
raised, a large number of plans and specifications relating to the various
parts of the vessel etc. The trial Judge declined to allow inspection of
the documents and the Court of Appeal affirmed his decision. The House of
Lords also upheld the claim of privilege by a unanimous decision, holding
that a court of law should uphold an objection taken by a public department
called on to produce documents in a suit between private citizens if on
grounds of public policy they ought not to be produced and that documents
otherwise relevant and liable for production must not be produced if the
public interest required that they should be withheld. The House of Lords
in that case laid down two tests on which documents may be withheld - one
based on the contents of the documents and the other namely the class to
which the documents belonged, which on grounds of public interest must be
withheld from production. It proceeded to lay down that an objection
validly taken on the ground that it would be injurious to the public
interest was conclusive. But it was held that the mere fact that the
minister of the department did not wish the documents to be produced was
not an adequate justification for objecting to their production. Production
could also be withheld when the public interest would otherwise be
damnified as where disclosure would be injurious to national defence or to
good diplomatic relations or where the practice of keeping a class of
documents secret was necessary for the proper functioning of the public
service. In such a case, it was held that the court should not require to
see the document for the purpose of ascertaining whether disclosure would
be injurious to the public interest. It was further held that it was
essential that the decision to object should be taken by the minister who
was the political head of the department concerned and that he should have
seen and considered the contents of the documents and himself formed the
view that on grounds of public interest they ought not to be produced and
such objection should ordinarily be taken in an affidavit of the minister.
This decision, it may be seen, laid down that privilege could be claimed in
respect of a document on two alternative grounds viz. (a) that the
disclosure of the contents of the documents would be injurious to the
public interest by endangering national security or diplomatic relations
and (b) that the document belonged to a class which should not be disclosed
to ensure the proper functioning of public service. Viscount Simon who
spoke for the House of Lords in this case expressed his disagreement with
the decision of the Privy Council in Robinson v. State of South Australia
(No. 2) [1931] A.C. 704 : [1931] All E.R. 333 : (100) L.J. P.C. 183 : 145
LT 408 (PC)) in which it had been held that it was proper for a court to
inspect the documents in respect of which privilege had been claimed to
determine whether their production would be prejudicial to the public
welfare. In the course of his speech, the noble Lord observed at page 641
thus : (All ER pp. 594-95)As Lord Parker said in another connection, in The
Zamora [1916] 2 A.C. 77, 107 : 85 LJP 89 : 114 LT 626 (PC)) : "Those who
are responsible for the national security must be the sole judges of what
the national security requires." In Robinson v. State of South Australia (No. 2) [1931] A.C. 704 : [1931]
All E.R. 333 : (100) L.J. P.C. 183 : 145 LT 408 (PC)), the Judicial
Committee reversed the decision of the Supreme Court of South Australia,
which had refused to order the inspection of documents which the minister
in charge of the department objected to produce on grounds of public
policy, and remitted the case to the Supreme Court with the direction that
it was one proper for the exercise of the court's power of inspecting
documents in order to determine whether their production would be
prejudicial to the public welfare. I cannot agree with this view. Their
Lordships' conclusion was partly based on their interpretation of a rule of
court which was in the same terms as Order XXXI, Rule 19-A, sub-rule (2),
of the Rules of the English Supreme Court. This sub-rule provides : "Where
on an application for an order for inspection privilege is claimed for any
document, it shall be lawful for the court or a judge to inspect the
document for the purpose of deciding as to the validity of the claim of
privilege." In my opinion, the Privy Council was mistaken in regarding such
a rule as having any application to the subject-matter. The doubt expressed
on the point by Du Parcq, L.J., in the present case is fully justified. The
withholding of documents on the ground that their publication would be
contrary to the public interest, is not properly to be regarded as a branch
of the law of privilege connected with discovery. 'Crown privilege' is for
this reason not a happy expression. Privilege, in relation to discovery, is
for the protection of the litigant and could be waived by him, but the rule
that the interest of the State must not be put in jeopardy by producing
documents which would injure it is a principle to be observed in
administering justice, quite unconnected with the interests or claims of
the particular parties in litigation, and, indeed, is a rule on which the
judge should, if necessary, insist, even though no objection is taken at
all.1167. Nearly five years after the judgment in Duncan case [1942] A.C.
624 : [1942] 1 All E.R. 587: 111 LJKB 406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)) the Crown
Proceedings Act, 1947 was passed by the British Parliament and the Crown
privilege recognised under the common law was regulated by Section 28 of
the said Act. But that section was, however, subject to the proviso that it
could not override any rule of law which authorised or required the
withholding of any document or the refusal to answer any question on the
ground that the disclosure of the document or the refusal to answering of
the question would be injurious to the public interest. 1168. Robinson case [1931] A.C. 704 : [1931] All E.R. 333 : (100) L.J. P.C.
183 : 145 LT 408 (PC)) which was dissented from by the House of Lords as
stated above arose out of an action in South Australia. The Judicial
Committee had held in that case that a South Australian rule which provided
that where on an application for an order for inspection, privilege was
claimed for any document it was lawful for the Court or a Judge to inspect
it for the purpose of deciding as the validity of the claim applied where
privilege was claimed for an official document on the ground that its
disclosure would be contrary to the interests of the public even though the
claim was supported by a statement to that effect by the Minister
responsible. It was further held that the Court had always in reserve, the
power to inquire into the nature of the document for which protection was
so sought and to require some indication of the injury which would result
from its production. The Judicial Committee added that the claim to
protection in the case of documents relating to trading, commercial or
contractual activities of a State could rarely be sustained especially in
time of peace and that documents would prejudice the case of the State in
the litigation or assist the other party was a compelling reason for their
production only to be over-borne by the gravest reasons of State policy or
security.1169. In three cases which came before the Court of Appeal after
Duncan case [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All E.R. 587: 111 LJKB 406 : 166 LT
366 (HL)) was decided by the House of Lords, while it was held that on
matters touching national security and foreign affairs, the application of
the principle enunciated in the Duncan case [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All
E.R. 587: 111 LJKB 406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)) in an unqualified manner was not
open to question, doubts were entertained about its application without
modification to a class of documents. (See Merricks v. Nott-Bower, [1964] 1
All E.R. 717 : [1964] 2 W.L.R. 702 : 1965 1 QB 57 (CA); Re Grosvenor Hotel,
London (No. 2), [1964] 3 All E.R. 354 : [1964] 3 W.L.R. 992 (CA) and
Wednesbury Corporation v. Ministry of Housing and Local Governement, [1965]
1 All E.R. 186 : [1965] 1 W.L.R. 261 (CA)) When it was asserted by the
Attorney-General that so long as the objection was taken in proper form,
the Judge must treat the claim of privilege as conclusive, in Re Grosvenor
Hotel case (See Merricks v. Nott-Bower, [1964] 1 All E.R. 717 : [1964] 2
W.L.R. 702 : 1965 1 QB 57 (CA); Re Grosvenor Hotel, London (No. 2), [1964]
3 All E.R. 354 : [1964] 3 W.L.R. 992 (CA) and Wednesbury Corporation v.
Ministry of Housing and Local Governement, [1965] 1 All E.R. 186 : [1965] 1
W.L.R. 261 (CA)) Lord Denning, M.R. after referring to the practice
prevailing in Scotland and Commonwealth countries, observed at pages
361-362 thus : The reason why the law sanctions the claiming of Crown privilege on the
'class' ground is the need to secure freedom and candour of communication
with and within the public service, so that Government decisions can be
taken on the best advice and with the fullest information. In order to
secure this it is necessary that the class of documents to which privilege
applies should be clearly settled, so that the person giving advice or
information should know that he is doing so in confidence. Any system
whereby a document falling within the class might, as a result of a later
decision, be required to be produced in evidence, would destroy that
confidence and undermine the whole basis of class privilege, because there
would be no certainty at the time of writing that the document would not be
disclosed. It is sometimes suggested that a claim for privilege on the class basis
should be referred to and decided by a Judge. This suggestion goes much
further than the position in Scotland, where the power of the Judge is only
exercisable 'in very special circumstances' and does not permit any
examination of the ground of the claim. This ground namely, "the proper
functioning of the public service", must in our view be a matter for a
minister to decide, with his knowledge of government and responsibility to
Parliament, rather than for a Judge.A Judge assesses the importance of a
particular document in the case that he is hearing, and his inclination
would be to allow or to disallow a claim for privilege according to the
contents and the relevance of the document, rather than to consider the
effect on the public service of the disclosure of the class of documents to
which it belongs. The result would be that the same kind of document would
sometimes be protected and sometimes disclosed, which would, as I have
said, be destructive of the whole basis of the class privilege. I would emphasise that claims of Crown privilege are made in respect of all
documents falling within the class, irrespective of whether their
production would be favourable or unfavourable to the Crown's interests.
All Crown lawyers are familiar with cases in which the Crown's interests
have in fact been prejudiced by the application of the rule. The proper way to strike a balance between the needs of litigants and those
of Government administration is, in our opinion, to narrow the class as
much as possible by excluding from it those categories of documents which
appear to be particularly relevant to litigation and for which the highest
degree of confidentiality is not required in the public interest. (Idid.,
pp. 467-468)

1173. The three decisions of the Court of Appeal referred to above which
had been decided by Lord Denning M.R., Harman and Salmon, L.JJ. came up for
consideration again before the Court of Appeal in Conway v. Rimmer [1967] 2
All E.R. 1260 (CA)) consisting of Lord Denning, M.R., Davies and Russell,
L. JJ. The relevant facts of this case were these. The plaintiff, a
probationer police constable was prosecuted by a Superintendent in the
constabulary on a charge of stealing an electric torch belonging to another
probationer constable. The prosecution failed and the plaintiff was
acquitted but soon afterwards he was dismissed from the police force as
unlikely to become an efficient police officer. The plaintiff sued the
Superintendent for malicious prosecution. On discovery in the action, the
Homes Secretary claimed Crown privilege for a class of documents which
included the probationary reports relating to the plaintiff and the report
leading to his prosecution; the privilege was claimed on the ground that
discovery of documents of that class would be contrary or injurious to the
public interest. The claim of privilege was in proper form. It was not
suggested that the claim was not taken in good faith or that the Home
Secretary was mistaken in thinking the documents to be of the class stated.
The Registrar of the Court directed the defendant to produce the documents.
But Browne, J. allowed the appeal by the defendant and the Attorney-General
and disallowed the claim for discovery. It is this order which was
questioned before the Court of Appeal. In this case, Lord Denning who was
in the minority directed the production of the documents. The other two
learned Judges, however, felt that Duncan case [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1
All E.R. 587: 111 LJKB 406 : 166 LT 366 (HL)) could not be departed from by
the Court of Appeal and that the observations in the three cases referred
to above questioning the validity of the privilege based on the class to
which the particular document belonged were not binding. Davies, L.J. with
whom Russell, L.J. agreed observed at pages 1271-72 thus :I turn now to the
1964 trilogy of cases, namely, Merricks v. Nott-Bower [1964] 1 All E.R. 717
: [1964] 2 W.L.R. 702 : 1965 1 QB 57 (CA)); Re Grosvenor Hotel, London (No. 2) [1964] 3 All E.R. 354 : [1964] 3 W.L.R. 992 (CA)); and Wednesbury
Corporation v. Ministry of Housing and Local Government [1965] 1 All E.R.
186 : [1965] 1 W.L.R. 261 (CA)), mentioned earlier in this judgment and
decided in this Court by the same trinity of Judges, viz. Lord Denning,
M.R., Harman and Salmon, L. JJ. The judgments in those cases are, of
course, most weighty and most interesting; but, with the greatest respect,
I cannot accept them as decisions that English Law is other than I have
suggested that it is. Some general observations may be made about those
cases. In the first place, in not one of them did the court order
production of the documents in question or itself inspect them; so that,
whether or not the observations made in those cases were obiter, as in that
state of affairs I am inclined to think that they were, the Crown had no
opportunity of challenging in the House of Lords the validity of the views
expressed in this Court. Secondly, in each case the court was much
exercised about the form and sufficiency of the minister's certificate or
affidavit. In the present case no such question arises. Third, all those
decisions proceeded on the basis that there was a difference or dichotomy,
as Harman, L.J., called it in Re Grosvenor Hotel, London (No. 2) (Supra
Note 330, pp. 364, 365) between contents cases and class cases; though it
would appear that Salmon, L.J., would make a sub-division between high
'class' cases and low class cases. (Idid., pp. 370, 371) I am bound to say
that I can see no logical distinction, though there obviously may be a
practical one, between high class cases and low class cases, any more than
there is between class cases and contents cases. Fourth, all of the
judgments proceeded on the basis that the observations of Viscount Simon in
Duncan case (Duncan v. Cammel Laird & Co., Ltd., [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1
All E.R. 587 : 166 LT 366 (HL)), as to class cases were obiter and wrong.
Fifth, very little weight was attached in any of those cases to the
decision in Auten v. Rayner [1958] 3 All E.R. 566 : [1958] 1 W.L.R. 1300
(CA)). Finally, all the Judges were exercised in their minds as to the
desirability of the law of England in this respect being the same as that
of Scotland and of Commonwealth countries, such as Australia, Canada and
New Zealand. Whether the law in those Commonwealth countries, whose courts
are, of course, influenced by Robinson v. State of South Australia (No. 2)
[1931] All E.R. 333 : [1931] A.C. 704 : (100) L.J. P.C. 183 : 145 LT 408
(PC)), is precisely the same as the law of Scotland, as laid down in
Glasgow Corpn. v. Central Land Board (1956 SC (HL) 1 : 1956 SLT 41) is,
perhaps, open to doubt. That it is desirable that the law on this important
constitutional matter should be the same everywhere is beyond question;
but, in my judgment, the only tribunal in this country which can achieve
that object is the House of Lords, who now have the power to alter or vary
the decision at which, as I have said, in my opinion they arrived in Duncan
case (Duncan v. Cammel Laird & Co., Ltd., [1942] A.C. 624 : [1942] 1 All
E.R. 587 : 166 LT 366 (HL)).1174. The appeal was dismissed in accordance
with the opinion of the majority. 1175. The clock was thus again put back by the Court of Appeal. Conway case
[1968] 1 All E.R. 874 : [1968] A.C. 910 (HL)) was taken up in appeal before
the House of Lords in Conway v. Rimmer [1968] 1 All E.R. 874 : [1968] A.C.
910 (HL)). After a review of a number of decisions which had been rendered
before Duncan case [1958] 3 All E.R. 566 : [1958] 1 W.L.R. 1300 (CA)).
including Robinson case [1931] All E.R. 333 : [1931] A.C. 704 : (100) L.J.
P.C. 183 : 145 LT 408 (PC)) decided by the Privy Council and the decisions
of the Court of Appeal subsequent to the decision in Duncan case, (Duncan
v. Cammel Laird & Co., Ltd., [1942] 1 All E.R. 587 : 111 LJKB 406 : [1942]
A.C. 624 : 166 LT 366 (HL)), the House of Lords reversed the decision of
the Court of Appeal. It directed that the documents in question should be
produced before the Court which had called them for its inspection and if
it was found that their disclosure would not be prejudicial to the public
interest or that any such possible prejudice would be insufficient to
justify non-disclosure, an order for disclosure of the reports should be
made. 1176. It is important to note that in this case one Lord after another
rejected the contention that the possibility of future disclosure would
affect candour. Lord Reid observed at page 881 : The court will more readily uphold an objection on the ground of the
contents of a document, and for this purpose the minister need not go into
any detail. But where the minister raises the objection to production on
the ground that the documents belong to a class the production of which
would be injurious to the public interest, he must describe with some
particularity the nature of the class and the reasons why they should not
be disclosed. For this purpose the proper test to be applied is whether the
withholding of a document because it belongs to a particular class is
really necessary for the proper functioning of the public service, and the
term 'public service' in this context should not be construed narrowly. In
considering a claim to Crown privilege in relation to a class of documents,
the fact that the documents were communicated in confidence to the Crown is
a very material consideration, but nevertheless the court may conclude that
the public interest in such confidentiality is outweighed by the public
interest that they should be disclosed in the administration of
justice.1182. In Australia too the very same position prevails. It is
sufficient to refer to the observations of Gibbs, A.C.J. of the High Court
of Australia in Sankey v. Whitlam (1978 21 Aust LR 505 : 53 ALJR 11)
decided in November, 1978 at page 542 which are as follows : followed (in case of refusal) by a reply from the departmental head stating
the circumstances deemed to justify the refusal; and then a ruling by the
court, this ruling to be appealable and determinative of the privilege. 1187. Writing about the immunity claimed by President Nixon against the
demand for disclosure of certain types of documents, Raoul Berger writes in
his book entitled Executive Privilege : A Constitutional Myth 1974 at page
264 thus :'Candid interchange' is yet another pretext for doubtful secrecy.
It will not explain Mr. Nixon's claim of blanket immunity for members of
his White House staff on the basis of mere membership without more; it will
not justify Kleindienst's assertion of immunity from congressional inquiry
for two and one-half million federal employees. It is merely another
testimonial to the greedy expansiveness of power, the costs of which
patently outweigh its benefits. As the latest branch in a line of
illegitimate succession, it illustrates the excesses bred by the claim of
executive privilege. And in practice it has realised Lord Pearce's pregnant
observation : "What a complete lack of common sense a general blanket
protection of wide class may yield". Conway v. Rimmer [1968] 1 All E.R.
874, 910 : [1968] A.C. 910 (HL)). The problem will not be met by pruning a
branch here and there; the axe must be put to the root of a claim that is
altogether without constitutional warrant, leaving it to the good sense of
Congress and the people - and, if need be, the courts - to work out an
accommodation for such matters as confidential communications between the
President and his immediate advisers, excluding any communications with
respect to illegal acts. To leave it with the executive branch to decide is
to court more of the 'horrors' revealed by recent history. 1188. Professor Arthur Schlesinger Jr. states : Section 162 reads : The Court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to
matters of State, or take other evidence to enable it to determine on its
admissibility. If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause any document to be
translated, the Court may, if it thinks fit, direct the translator to keep
the contents secret, unless the document is to given in evidence; and, if
the interpreter disobeys such direction, he shall be held to have committed
an offence under Section 166 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of
1860).1196. The decision in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case was rendered in the light of the
development of the law on the above question in England up to the year
1960. Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) speaking for the majority
observed in that case at pages 393-395 thus : 1197. A similar question arose again before this Court in State of U.P. v.
Raj Narain . Ray, C.J. speaking for himself and Alagiriswamy, Sarkaria and Untwalia, JJ.
observed at SCR pages 348-349 thus : (SCC pp. 442-43, paras 41-42)The
several decisions to which reference has already been made establish that
the foundation of the law behind Sections 123 and 162 of the Evidence Act
is the same as in English law. It is that injury to public interest is the
reason for the exclusion form disclosure of documents whose contents if
disclosed would injure public and national interest. Public interest which
demands that evidence be withheld is to be weighed against the public
interest in the administration of justice that courts should have the
fullest possible access to all relevant materials. When public interest
outweighs the latter, the evidence cannot be admitted. The court will
proprio motu exclude evidence the production of which is contrary to public
interest. It is in public interest that confidentiality shall be
safeguarded. The reason is that such documents become subject to privilege
by reason of their contents. Confidentiality is not a head of privilege. It
is a consideration to bear in mind. It is not that the contents contain
material which it would be damaging to the national interest to divulge but
rather that the documents would be of class which demand protection (see Rogers v. Home Secretary [1973] A.C. 388, 405 : [1972] 2 All E.R.
1057(HL))). To illustrate the class of documents would embrace Cabinet
papers, Foreign Office despatches, papers regarding the security to the
State and high level inter-departmental minutes. In the ultimate analysis
the contents of the document are so described that it could be seen at once
that in the public interest the documents are to be withheld. (see Merricks
v. Nott-Bower [1964] 1 All E.R. 717 : [1964] 2 W.L.R. 702 : 1965 1 QB 57
(CA))

It is now the well-settled practice in our country that an objection is
raised by an affidavit affirmed by the head of the department. The Court
may also require a minister to affirm an affidavit. That will arise in the
course of the enquiry by the Court as to whether the document should be
withheld from disclosure. If the Court is satisfied with the affidavit
evidence that the document should be protected in public interest from
production the matter ends there. If the Court would yet like to satisfy
itself the Court may see the document. This will be the inspection of the
document by the Court. Objection as to production as well as admissibility
contemplated in Section 162 of the Evidence Act is decided by the Court in
the enquiry as explained by this Court in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case 1197A. In his
concurring judgment, Mathew, J. said at SCR pages 359 and 361 thus : (SCC
pp. 452-53 & 454, paras 71-2 & 76-7)

. . . When a question of antional security is involved, the Court may not
be proper forum to weigh the matter and that is the reason why a minister's
certificate is taken as conclusive. "Those who are responsible for the
national security must be the sole judges of what national security
requires." (Lord Parker of Weddington in The Zamora, [1961] 2 A.C. 77, 107
: 85 LJP 89 : 114 LT 626 (PC)) As the Executive is solely responsible for
national security including foreign relations, no other organ could judge
so well of such matters. Therefore, documents in relation to these matters
might fall into a class which per se might require protection. But the
Executive is not the organ solely responsible for public interest. It
represents only an important element in it; but there are other elements.
One such element is the administration of justice. The claim of the
Executive to have exclusive and conclusive power to determine what is in
public interest is a claim based on the assumption that the Executive alone
knows what is best for the citizen. The claim of the Executive to exclude
evidence is more likely to operate to subserve a partial interest, viewed
exclusively from a narrow department angle. It is impossible for it to see
or give equal weight to another matter, namely, that justice should be done
and seen to be done. When there are more aspects of public interest to be
considered, the Court will, with reference to the pending litigation, be in
a better position to decide where the weight of public interest
predominates. The power reserved to the court is a power to order production even though
public interest is to some extent prejudicially affected. This amounts to a
recognition that more than one aspect of public interest will have to be
surveyed. The interests of government for which the minister speaks do not
exhaust the whole public interest. Another aspect of that interest is seen
in the need for impartial administration of justice. It seems reasonable to
assume that a court is better qualified than the minister to measure the
importance of the public interest in the case before it. The Court has to
make an assessment of the relative claims of these different aspects of
public interest. While there are overwhelming arguments for giving to the
executive the power to determine what matters may prejudice public
security, those arguments give no sanction to giving the Executive an
exclusive power to determine what matters may affect public interest. Once
considerations of national security are left out, there are few matters of
public interest which cannot safely be discussed in public. The
administration itself knows of many classes of security documents ranging
from those merely reserved for official use to those which can be seen only
by a handful of ministers of officials bound by oath of secrecy.There was
some controversy as to whether the Court can inspect the document for the
propose of coming to the conclusion whether the document relates to affairs
of State. In Sodhi Sukhdev Singh case , this Court has said that the Court has no power
to inspect the document. In the subsequent case Amar Chand Butail v. Union
of India 1964 AIR(SC) 1658 : 1965 (1) SCJ 243) this Court held that the
normal method of claiming privilege was by an affidavit sworn by the head
of the department and that, if no proper affidavit was filed, the claim for
privilege was liable to be rejected. But, this Court inspected the document
to see whether it related to affairs of State. It might be that the Court
wanted to make sure that public interest is protected, but whatever be the
reason, the Court did exercise the power to inspect the document. In England, it is now settled by the decision in Company v. Rimmer [1964] 1
All E.R. 717 : [1964] 2 W.L.R. 702 : 1965 1 QB 57 (CA)) that there is
residual power in court to decide whether the disclosure of a document is
in the interest of the public and for that purpose, if necessary, to
inspect the document, and that the statement of the head of the department
that the disclosure would injure public interest is not final. 1198. It seems that by this decision the law in India was brought in line
with the decision of the House of Lords in Conway case [1968] 1 All E.R.
874 : [1968] A.C. 910 (HL)). 1199. After hearing the arguments on the question of privilege, this Court
directed the Government to submit the documents in respect of which
privilege was claimed for its inspection. Those documents included the
correspondence between the Chief Justice of the High Court of Delhi, the
Chief Justice of India and the Minister of Law and Justice and some
official notings relating to the question of reappointment of Shri S. N.
Kumar as a Judge of the High Court of Delhi.1200. The above order was made
as the documents in question had no concern with either the security of the
State or with the diplomatic relations between our country and any foreign
country. They no doubt related to a 'high level' appointment, but it was
felt by us that the fact by itself was not sufficient in circumstances of
the case to prevent the Court from directing the Government to produce the
documents for its inspection before deciding the question of discovery. 1201. The question whether these documents should be allowed to be
disclosed as prayed for by the parties concerned, depended upon our view on
the question whether such disclosure would subserve the public interest. It
is accepted on all hands that the documents in question were 'high level'
documents relating to the appointment of a Judge of a High Court and any
order to be made on the question of disclosure had to be made after
considering the pros and cons of all relevant matters. Having inspected the
documents the Court had to consider whether their disclosure would create
or fan ill-informed or captious, public or political criticism or whether
the business of the Government would be exposed to the gaze of those ready
to criticise without adequate knowledge of the background or perhaps some
axe to grind, as observed by Lord Reid in Conway v. Rimmer [1968] 1 All
E.R. 874 : [1968] A.C. 910 (HL)). The wise words of Lord Keith in Burmah
Oil Co. case (Burmah Oil Co. Ltd. v. Bank of England, [1980] A.C. 1090
(HL)) that the public interest might "demand, though no doubt only in a
very limited number of cases, that the inner working of government should
be exposed to public gaze, and there may be some, who would regard this as
likely to lead, not to captious or ill-informed criticism, but to criticism
calculated to improve the nature of that working as affecting the
individual citizen" also had to be kept in view by the Court while dealing
with this case. The Court had to strike a balance between the public
interest in the proper functioning of the public service and the public
interest in the administration of justice. The Court also considered
whether the disclosure would lead to any other further consequence of any
body taking any further action on the basis of these documents. The ruling
in Riddick v. Thames Board Mills Ltd. [1977] 3 W.L.R. 63 : [1977] 3 All
E.R. 677: 1977 QB 881 (CA)) was also examined. In that case, Lord Denning
has observed at page 75 thus : (All ER pp. 687-88)In order to encourage
openness and fairness, the public interest requires that documents
disclosed on discovery are not to be made use of except for the purposes of
the action in which they are disclosed. They are not to be made a ground
for comments in the newspapers, or for bringing a libel action, or for any
other alien purpose. The principle was stated in a work of the highest
authority 93 years ago by Bray, J., Bray on Discovery, 1st Edn. 1885, page
238 : 1202. Ours is an open society which has a government of the people, which
has to be run according to the Constitution and the laws. The expression
'affairs of State' should, therefore, receive a very narrow meaning. Any
claim for interpreting it with a wider connotation may expose Section 123 of the Evidence Act to be challenged as being unconstitutional. 1203. In this case the questions involved are (1) whether there was
divergence of opinion between the opinion of the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court and the opinion of the Chief Justice of India ? (2) Whether the
opinions expressed by them were relevant for deciding the question of
fitness of Shri S. N. Kumar for appointment as Additional Judge or
permanent Judge of the High Court of Delhi ? (3) Whether the consultations
made under Article 217(1) were proper ? and (4) Whether the decision of the
President not to appoint Shri S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge or
permanent Judge could be characterised as perverse ? The pleadings in the
case naturally could not give us a complete picture in view of the secrecy
involved in the process of recommendation and the claim of privilege made
on behalf of the Government. The standing of the parties concerned to
question the decision of the President was also raised apart from the
question of non-justiciability of the issue itself. Since Shri S. N. Kumar
himself took active interest in the litigation and asked for relief, the
absence of locus standi of Shri V. M. Tarkunde (the petitioner) did not
matter much. On the question of justiciability, we felt that an Additional
Judge who was not reappointed could move the Court for a direction to the
Government to consider the question of his reappointment in a fair way for
the reasons recorded elsewhere in this judgment. We felt that the issue
involved the performance of a duty which was judicially identified and its
breach was capable of judicial determination and that it was possible to
grant relief, though in a limited way, if circumstances warranted it. When
we considered the contentions of the parties against the background of the
facts and the important questions of constitutional law and their
application involved in this case, we felt that a decision not to direct
disclosure of the documents would result in graver public prejudice than
the decision to direct such disclosure and that the public interest
involved in the administration of justice should prevail over the public
interest of the public service in the peculiar circumstances of the case.
We also felt that in the circumstances of this case if disclosure was not
ordered, there would be room for many undesirable conjectures and surmises
about the entire process of consultation under Article 217(1). Accordingly
by our order made earlier in the course of these proceedings we directed
the disclosure of the documents after carefully considering all aspects of
the case including the weighty reasons of our learned brother Fazal Ali, J.
to the contrary.PART IX

1204. The next important and delicate question for consideration is whether
the non-appointment of Shri S. N. Kumar as an Additional Judge even though
the arrears of work in the High Court of Delhi justified the appointment of
more number of Judges is legal and proper ? Article 217(1) of the
Constitution which empowers the President to appoint Judge of High Courts
does not make any distinction between the tests that should be applied in
the case of appointment of a permanent Judge and the tests to be applied in
the case of the appointment of an Additional Judge, as to the fitness of
the person to be appointed. The same tests have to be applied even when a
person who has already been appointed as an Additional Judge is to be
considered for appointment as a permanent Judge or for appointment as an
Additional Judge for another period although as already mentioned an
Additional Judge has two factors in his favour which have to be taken into
consideration by the appointing authority in the context of the manner in
which Article 224 of the Constitution has been operated all these days.
Since the appointment in question is to the post of a Judge, questions of
integrity and of character of the person proposed for the post do assume
large importance in taking a decision. The appointing authority cannot
merely act on mere absence of evidence of lack of integrity or character of
the person concerned. The appointing authority should on the other hand
feel positively assured about the integrity and good character of such
person. Having regard to the importance of the office of a Judge of a High
Court, the constitutional and legal immunities that a Judge enjoys and the
need for infusing confidence in the minds of the people who approach courts
seeking impartial justice, the appointing authority has to take sometimes
hard decisions and it is likely that in that process some person who is
really honest may not be appointed on account of some doubt expressed by
one or the other amongst the functionaries who have to be consulted under Article 217(1) of the Constitution or on account of some other relevant
material that may be available to the appointing authority. Hence if a
person is not appointed as a Judge after the usual process of consultation
is over it does not necessarily mean that in fact he lacks integrity or
character. If the matter had been placed in the above light in this case
perhaps the task of the Court would have been less onerous. But in the
course of the arguments, serious allegations of political vendetta,
conspiracy, malice, fraud etc. were made against the Prime Minister, Law
Minister and the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court. A deeper probe into
the case has, therefore, become necessary.1205. The first submission was
that as there was an uncontradicted news item appearing in a newspaper
according to which the Prime Minister had expressed dissatisfaction with
the Judges appointed by the Government which was in office prior to her
becoming the Prime Minister in January, 1980, the action taken in respect
of Shri S. N. Kumar who had been appointed by the previous Government was
traceable to the said reaction of the Prime Minister. It is difficult to
accept this submission because there were about sixty such Additional
Judges appointed by the previous Government and out of them it is seen that
only four - one of the Allahabad High Court, one of the Rajasthan High
Court and two of the Delhi High Court including the petitioner have not
been reappointed as Additional Judges. If the policy was not to appoint
such Judges, as a matter of policy, in the case of others also a similar
decision would have been taken. But that has not bene the case. As can be
seen from the List of Judges of the High Courts as on January 1, 1980,
there were 12 Additional Judges in the Delhi High Court. Of them one died
in 1980 and nine (including Mr. Justice Wad) had been either made permanent
or continued as Additional Judges by the present Government. Only two i.e.
Shri S. N. Kumar and Shri O. N. Vohra have not been continued. Hence it is
difficult to draw an inference that it is on account of any political
ground that Shri S. N. Kumar has not been continued. This argument that the
Prime Minister took a hostile attitude towards Shri S. N. Kumar on account
of political ground is inconsistent with another argument urged before us,
namely, that the Law Minister had tried to mislead the Prime Minister when
he wrote on March 3, 1981 that "the letter of the Chief Justice of Delhi
High Court makes a serious complaint against the integrity of Shri S. N.
Kumar and I deliberately avoid going into the merits or the details at this
stage as I am proposing a short extension in his tenure presently". The
argument is that even though the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court had
not made any serious complaint, the Minister for Law had stated so in order
to mislead the Prime Minister. Whether factually he had tried to mislead
her or not will be dealt with later. But the statement that he was
misleading the Prime Minister who, according to the learned counsel for
Shri S. N. Kumar, had made up her mind to take some action prejudicial to
Shri S. N. Kumar appears to be incongruous. Perhaps it would have been
acceptable if the case was that the Prime Minister was favourably disposed
towards Shri S. N. Kumar but the Law Minister had tried to mislead
her.1206. The next allegation is that the Chief Justice of the Delhi High
Court and the Minister for Law had entered into a conspiracy to do harm to
Shri S. N. Kumar. This aspect of the matter also will be discussed later
on. But this contention is, however, inconsistent with another argument
that the Law Minister had tried to put undue pressure on the Chief Justice
of the Delhi High Court to furnish some particulars which were against Shri
S. N. Kumar and secured the letter of May 7, 1981. Conspiracy presupposes
the existence of a voluntary combination of two or more persons to achieve
some unlawful object or to bring about some result injurious to some other
person or persons. If there were only two in a given case and one of them
had exerted pressure on the other to secure some information it would not
be a case of conspiracy but a case of extortion of some information by one
from the other. The preceding discussion shows that there is inherent
inconsistency in some of the contentions which are urged before us. 1207. In the instant case, we are concerned with the Chief Justice of
India, the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and the Law Minister each
of whom is holding a very high office and each of whom is entrusted with
high responsibilities. Each one of them has to express his candid opinion
of the matter in issue. It is not unknown that on the same matter any two
honest persons may have two different opinions. There is no allegations in
the case that either the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court or the Law
Minister had any personal ill will against Shri S. N. Kumar. There is no
allegation also to the effect that the Chief Justice of the Delhi High
Court had anything to gain by colluding with the Law Minister. He had been
appointed as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court before February 19, 1981
on which date he wrote the first letter expressing his opinion against the
reappointment of Shri S. N. Kumar. Further the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court is not impleaded as a respondent in the case. It is wholly
improper and opposed to all canons of judicial process to make any comment
against him without giving him an opportunity to defend himself. Under the
Constitution, he is under a duty to express his opinion on the question of
appointment of a Judge in the High Court of Delhi. Such opinion should be
about all relevant aspects including the reputation and integrity of the
person concerned. In discharge of his constitutional obligation, the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court wrote to the Law Minister on February 19,
1981 as follows :Secret & Confidential

Chief Justice

High Court of Delhi

D.O. No. 275-HCJ/PPS

New Delhi, February 19, 1981

My dear Shiv Shankarji,

Mr. Justice S. N. Kumar was appointed an Additional Judge of this Court for
a period of two years vide notification No. 50/8/78-Jus., dated March 6,
1979, issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Law, Justice & Company
Affairs (Department of Justice). He assumed the charge of his office in the
afternoon of March 7, 1979. Normally extension of the tenure of an Additional Judge is recommended
keeping in view the pendency in Court. The pendency in this Court still
justifies the appointment of Additional Judges. There have, however, been
serious complaints against Mr. Justice S. N. Kumar, both oral and in
writing. These complaints have been received by one direct as well as
through you. I have examined these complaints and find that some of the
complaints are not without basis. Responsible members of the Bar and some
of my colleagues, whom I would rather not name, have also complained about
Mr. Justice Kumar. I have no investigating agency to conclusively find out
whether the complaints are genuine or not. All the same the complaints have
been persistent. There is one other factor which has been brought to my notice. It is rather
unfortunate that Mr. Justice Kumar has also not been very helpful in
disposing of cases. Some responsible members of the Bar and some of my
colleagues have also expressed doubts about Justice Kumar's integrity. In the above circumstances, it is my very painful duty not to recommend an
extension for Justice Kumar. You may, however, examine the matter at your
end and take such steps as you think proper. With Regards,

Yours sincerely,Sd- (Prakash Narain)

Shri P. Shiv Shankar,

Minister of Law, Justice

& Company Affairs,

Government of India,

Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi. 1208. A reading of the aforesaid letter shows that it was being written in
anguish and with a feeling of sincerity. It is not shown that the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court had made any statement which was false to
his knowledge, or which he did not believe to be true or which he believed
to be untrue. A Chief Justice of a High Court has no machinery to
investigate into complaints but he has got to state about the fitness of
the person to be appointed as a Judge. It is seen that he has relied on the
statements of some of his colleagues and some of the members of the Bar. He
has no doubt not given their names. It is not also possible to expect him
to give out their names having regard to the constraints of law which
applies to person who make such statements. It is significant that even the
Chief Justice of India has not given the names of Judges and of lawyers who
were consulted by him as stated in his letter dated May 22, 1981. There is
no reason to disbelieve the statement of the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court that he had heard some statements which suggested that the
integrity of Shri S. N. Kumar was in doubt. The said statement may be in
fact not true. We cannot go into the correctness or otherwise of those
statements in proceedings of this character. It is enough to state that it
is not shown that the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court had not heard
such statements at all. In this situation if the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court had conveyed whatever he had heard and had not recommended
continuance of Shri S. N. Kumar, he cannot be considered as having
committed any act of impropriety even though Shri Kumar had not in fact
done anything which was improper as a Judge. If Shri Kumar is a victim of
false rumour he deserves sympathy but it is not open to condemn the action
of the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court which he had to discharge in
the public interest and true to his oath of office.1209. The next aspect of
this part of the case relates to the question whether there was full and
proper consultation with the functionaries mentioned in Article 217(1) of
the Constitution. In the case of the High Court of Delhi which is situated
in the Union Territory of Delhi, consultation with the Governor does not
arise (vide Section 4 of the Delhi High Court Act, 1966 ). The only two
authorities who have to be consulted by the President are the Chief Justice
of the Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India. The process of
consultation referred to in Article 217(1) requires that the authorities
concerned should be given sufficient information and also sufficient
opportunity to furnish their opinion. The question whether such information
was furnished and whether such opportunity was given depends upon the facts
of each case. In the instant case the letter dated February 19, 1981
written by the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court was made available to
the Chief Justice of India. On that the Chief Justice of India observed on
March 3, 1981 : "I would like to look carefully into the charges against
Shri S. N. Kumar. The letter of the Delhi Chief Justice dated February 19,
1981 seems to me too vague to accept that Shri Kumar lacks integrity. "The
Chief Justice of India, however, recommended that Shri S. N. Kumar may be
appointed for a period of six months so that he could enquire into the
matter in the meanwhile. On the same date i.e. March 3, 1981, the Law
Minister put up a note for the consideration of the Prime Minister
suggesting that Shri S. N. Kumar may be appointed as an Additional Judge
for three months so that a final decision could be taken within that
period. It is true that the Law Minister has stated in this note that the
Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court had made 'serious complaint' against
the integrity of Shri S. N. Kumar. The word 'serious' according to the
Shorter Oxford Dictionary means"requiring earnest thought, consideration or
application". Any remark against the reputation or integrity of a person to
be appointed as a Judge of a High Court is a matter which requires earnest
consideration. It is, therefore, difficult to hold that the Law Minister
had made any misrepresentation to the Prime Minister in recording the
aforesaid note.1210. After Shri S. N. Kumar was reappointed as an
Additional Judge with effect from March 7, 1981, the Law Minister wrote on
March 19, 1981 to the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court bringing to his
notice the note of the Chief Justice of India made on March 3, 1981 that
the letter of the Delhi Chief Justice dated February 19, 1981 seemed to him
too vague to accept that Shri Kumar lacked integrity and added : 1211. It is seen from the letter dated March 28, 1981 written by the Delhi
Chief Justice to the Chief Justice of India that the Chief Justice of India
had also written a letter dated March 14, 1981 (which is not placed before
us) to the Delhi Chief Justice about the same subject and that the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court had met the Chief Justice of India on March
26, 1981 (this date is mentioned in the letter of the Chief Justice of
India dated May 22, 1981 which will be referred to later on). After that
meeting the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court wrote to the Chief
Justice of India the letter dated March 28, 1981 referred to above. It
reads : With regards,

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

Shri Justice Prakash Narain,

Chief Justice,

Delhi High Court,

New Delhi. 1214. In reply to this letter the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court
wrote on May 7, 1981 a letter by way of reply which has given rise to some
serious controversy in this case. That letter reads : Credit, however, is given to both the Judges for the total disposal by the
Bench. To clarify, if 18 matters were disposed of by the Bench, 9 judgments
would normally be written by each Judge in regular matters but each Judge
will get credit of 18. So far as motion matters are concerned, short orders
admitting or dismissing a case are dictated in open Court by the senior of
the two Judges. No credit is given for disposal of motion matters.Except
for the Division Bench doing tax matters or criminal appeals, others
Division Benches have writ matters, letters patent appeals and other types
of civil matters listed before them. There is no special type of work
assigned to any particular Judge or Bench in our High Court. Normally the
distribution of work is in the broad categories of criminal work, tax work
and civil matters. Sometimes, depending upon the special aptitude of a
Judge, one particular type of cases are listed before that Judge in greater
number. There was no special distinction between the work that was being done by
the Bench of which Justice Kumar was a member and the Benches of which
Justice Vohra and Justice Wad were the members. This would be evident from
a reading of the classification of cases disposed of by the various Benches
which are all broadly mentioned as Main Cases in the statement of disposal
sent by me to Hon'ble the Chief Justice. I enclose for your ready reference
the breakup of the Main Cases. You will notice that the Division Bench of
which Justice Wad was a member heard and disposed of 11 writ petitions, 79
letters patent appeals, 11 sales tax references, one civil miscellaneous
(main), two criminal contempt petitions and five income tax references
besides seven miscellaneous petitions. The Bench of which Justice Vohra was
a member disposed of eight regular first appeals, 55 first appeals from
orders, three company appeals, 10 civil writ petitions, seven criminal
appeals, 18 letters patent appeals, three civil revisions etc. etc. The
Bench of which Justice Kumar was a member disposed of one letters patent
appeal, nine civil writ petitions and one first appeal from order besides
seven miscellaneous petitions. In my original letter to you I had mentioned about other complaints
regarding Justice Kumar besides the complaints about integrity. These
pertain to his conduct with counsel in Court. Generally speaking an
incident in Court is nothing more than exchange of, at the worst, hot
words. Unfortunately incidents in Justice Kumar's Court have been occurring
more frequently than in others. In some cases I am told, and in one I have
verified, a senior counsel had to go to the extent of recording the
incident and making his comments about unfair conduct of the Judge on
affidavit which was placed on the record of the case. It created an unhappy
situation.In view of what I have written above and my talks with you, it is
now for the Government to see whether it would like Justice Kumar to
continue as a Judge of the Delhi High Court. As far as I am concerned, my
views have already been expressed in my letter dated February 19, 1981. With regards,

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (Prakash Narain)

Encl : 3

Shri P. Shiv Shankar,

Minister of Law, Justice & Co. Affairs,

Government of India, New Delhi. 1215. Three statements are enclosed with this letter showing the number of
cases disposed of by Shri S. B. Wad, Shri O. N. Vohra and Shri S. N. Kumar.
After the above letter of May 7, 1981 was received, the Law Minister
recorded a note on May 19, 1981 asking for the opinion of the Secretary
(Justice) which read as follows : He categorically informed me that he could not afford to spoil his
relations with the CJI on the one hand and on the other could not desist
from expressing without fear or favour what he felt of certain matters and
if he is going to be suspect for discharging his functions fairly and
conscientiously, then his functioning as the Chief Justice would never be
smooth vis-a-vis CJI. In view of the above, Secretary (J) may examine immediately as to whether
it is inevitable to furnish the letters of the Chief Justice of Delhi to
the CJI for his comments or would it be sufficient if on the basis of his
previous endorsements, we address a letter to the CJI for his advice,
making him available, if need be the material available with us including
the purport of the I.B. report. In the latter case drafts may be put up. Sd/- Secretary (Justice) (P. Shiv Shankar)

May 19, 19811216. Thereafter on May 21, 1981, the Law Minister wrote to the
Chief Justice of India requesting him to give his opinion on the
continuance of Shri S. N. Kumar. It has to be mentioned here that by then
an interim order had been passed by this Court asking the Union Government
to take a decision on the continuance of Shri S. N. Kumar ten days before
the expiry of his tenure as Additional Judge which was to come to an end on
June 6, 1981 i.e. on or before May 27, 1981. It is admitted that the letter
of May 7, 1981 written by the Delhi Chief Justice to the Law Minister was
not sent to the Chief Justice of India along with the letter of May 21,
1981. The letter of February 19, 1981 referred to above was, however, sent.
But the letter of May 21, 1981 contained a reference to the meeting which
had taken place between the Delhi Chief Justice the Chief Justice of India
in para 3 thereof. The letter of May 21, 1981 reads : With regards,

Yours

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

Shri Y. V. Chandrachud,

Chief Justice of India,

Supreme Court,

New Delhi. Encls : As above. 1217. The Chief Justice of India was camping at Simla then. The Government
of India had to take a decision as per the interim order of this Court on
or before May 27, 1981. In view of the urgency involved, the Chief Justice
of India sent his reply as per letter of May 22, 1981 through a special
messenger from Simla to the Law Minister which reads as follows :Chief
Justice of India Supreme Court of India New Delhi Confidential Camp : Simla
By Special Messenger May 22, 1981

My dear Shiv Shankar,

I am in receipt of your letter (D.O. No. 50/2/81-Jus.) dated May 21, 1981
seeking my advice in regard to the continuance or otherwise of the terms of
justice S. N. Kumar and Justice S. B. Wad who are at present functioning as
Additional Judges of the Delhi High Court and whose terms were extended by
a period of three months with effect from March 6, 1981. Shri Prakash Narain, Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court, had written a
letter dated February 19, 1981 to you, a copy of which was sent to me. The
Chief Justice had recommended in that letter that Justice Kumar's
appointment should not be extended further for three reasons : (1) that
serious complaints were received against Justice Kumar orally as well as in
writing; (2) that Justice Kumar was not very helpful in disposing of cases;
and (3) that some responsible members of the Bar and Bench had expressed
doubts about Justice Kumar's integrity. By my letter dated March 14, 1981
to the Delhi Chief Justice I requested him to furnish further details and
concrete facts in regard to the allegations against Justice Kumar since the
result of the enquiries made by me was quite at variance with what the
Chief Justice had stated in his letter of March 19. The Chief Justice met me on March 26, 1981 when he told me that Justice
Kumar was very slow in his disposals and that he doubted his integrity
because even after Justice Kumar's allocation was changed form the original
side to the appellate side, he still continued to hear the part-heard cases
on the original side. The Chief Justice did not mention any thing adverse
in regard to Justice Kumar's political leanings or affiliations. By my
request the Chief Justice promised to send a statement showing the
disposals of Justice Kumar.I have made the most careful and extensive
enquiries in regard to both of these matters and I am satisfied that there
is no substance in any one of them. I have with me a detailed statement of
the disposals of Justice Kumar from which it would appear that no charge
can be made against him that he is slow in his disposals. Justice Kumar was
sitting with Justice T. P. S. Chawla for quite some time during the period
under consideration and it is a matter of wide knowledge that Justice
Chawla takes an enormously long time over the cases which come before him.
Sitting with Justice Chawla as a junior Judge, Justice Kumar could have
done precious little to hasten the disposal of cases which came before the
Bench. As regards the complaint of the Chief Justice that Justice Kumar's
integrity was doubtful since he continued to take old part-heard matters
even after the allocation of his work was changed, I have made enquiries
not only from members of the Bar but from the sitting Judges of the Delhi
High Court which show that it is a common practice in the Delhi High Court
that even after the allocation of a Judge is changed from the original side
to the appellate side and vice versa, he continues to take up part-heard
cases on which a substantial amount of time has been already spent. Justice
Kumar therefore did nothing out of the way or unusual in taking up part-
heard cases after the allocation of his work was changed. I find it therefore difficult to agree that Justice Kumar's term should not
to be extended for the reasons mentioned by the Chief Justice of the Delhi
High Court. I disagree with the learned Chief Justice, on enquiries made by
me, that Justice Kumar is either slow in his disposals or that his
integrity is doubtful. I must mention that I also made independent enquiries in regard to Justice
Kumar's integrity generally and apart from the reason for which the learned
Chief Justice thought that Justice Kumar lacked integrity. Not one member
of the Bar or of the Bench doubted the integrity of Justice Kumar. On the
other hand several of them stated that he is a man of unquestioned
integrity.You have annexed to your letter an extract of a further report
from the I.B. which says that : Shri Prakash Narain, (P. Shiv Shankar)

Chief Justice,

Delhi High Court,

New Delhi. 1222. The note of the Law Minister dated May 19, 1981 and the letter of May
29, 1981 written by the Law Minister to the Delhi Chief Justice which refer
to the request of the Delhi Chief Justice clearly establish that the letter
of May 7, 1981 was not sent to the Chief Justice of India not as part of
any conspiracy or pact between the Law Minister and the Delhi Chief Justice
but at the request of the Delhi Chief Justice. It is not also shown as to
what advantage the Law Minister was deriving by withholding the said letter
from the knowledge of the Chief Justice of India unless we start with the
assumption that for some undisclosed reason the Law Minister was bent upon
treating Shri S. N. Kumar with an 'evil eye and an uneven hand' and for
that reason he kept back the letter from the knowledge of the Chief Justice
of India. The Delhi Chief Justice has given three reasons for requesting
the Law Minister not to send the letter outside his office. The first
reason is, according to the Delhi Chief Justice, contained in the first
paragraph of the letter of May 7, 1981. That paragraph refers to the
meeting which had taken place between the Chief Justice of India and
himself on March 26, 1981 on all relevant points relating to the proposal
of reappointment of Shri S. N. Kumar and the fact that he had written the
letter of March 28, 1981 to the Law Minister 'as desired' by the Chief
Justice of India. That there was full and frank discussion between the
Chief Justice of India and the Delhi Chief Justice with reference to the
very particulars referred to in the letter of May 7, 1981 is clear by the
following facts : (i) The statement "With regard to the complaints about
Justice Kumar's integrity and general conduct, the matter has already been
discussed between us" which is found in the letter of March 28, 1981
written by the Delhi Chief Justice to the Chief Justice of India, (ii) the
reference to the meeting in the letter of the same date addressed by the
Delhi Chief Justice to the Law Minister enclosing a copy of the above said
letter dated March 28, 1981, (iii) the reference to the meeting in the
letter of the Law Minister to the Chief Justice of India dated May 21, 1981
and (iv) the reference to the meeting in the letter of the Chief Justice of
India dated May 22, 1981 written from Simla. This is further supported by
the affidavit dated July 17, 1981 of Shri S. N. Kumar himself which had
been filed long before the date on which documents in question were
directed to be disclosed by the Court i.e. in October 1981. The relevant
part of the aforesaid affidavit of Shri S. N. Kumar reads :Hon'ble the
Chief Justice of India, on the other hand discussed the matter with me at
length about my work and other general matters. I gave him full and true
information and supplied him relevant papers for his consideration. Since
the Government has not disclosed the reasons for its action I have no other
course open but to apprise this Court briefly of what is in my knowledge.
It was alleged that I was slow and that it was improper for me to continue
to deal with original work while sitting on the appellate side. A
comparative assessment of work disposed of by eight Judges who sat on the
original side with me showed that the work disposed of by me was nearly
maximum. I disposed of 827 matters during 256 sittings out of which 385
were civil suits and 442 miscellaneous matters. Regarding the second allegation, I say that on the contrary it would be
improper for a Judge not to finish a part-heard matter. I acted in
accordance with the well-established practice of Court. I know that two
Judges of this Court threatened issuing of contempt notice to the officer
concerned who removed a part-heard matter from their lists. The practice is
so well understood that the Registry of the Court itself fixes cases
accordingly in routine. Furthermore a perusal of the proceedings in the
part-heard matters would reveal the ridiculous nature of the allegations. 1223. Then Shri S. N. Kumar refers to the proceedings in Suit No. 5 of
1980, Suit No. 87 of 1975, Suits Nos. 1408, 1409 and 1417 of 1979, Suit No.
304 of 1974, Suit No. 327 of 1979, Ex. No. 11 of 1978, C.C.P. No. 13 of
1979 and Suit No. 73 of 1979. Thereafter he says : Practically every week once from January, 81 till the end of May, 1981, I
was sitting in the Division Bench with Chawla, J. to finish part-heard
matters. 1224. When a question was put by the Court as to who gave the particulars
of the cases referred to above, the learned counsel mentioned that they
were given by the Chief Justice of India. That means that the Chief Justice
of India had been furnished all the particulars by the Delhi Chief Justice
earlier at the meeting which took place on March 26, 1981 and the Chief
Justice of India had also the explanation of Shri S. N. Kumar. It is not
necessary for us here to assess correctness or otherwise of the conflicting
versions of the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and of Shri S. N.
Kumar bearing on the matters referred to above but the aforesaid
particulars are sufficient to hold that sufficient information was
available with the Chief Justice of India to record his opinion on the
question of appointment of Shri S. N. Kumar and no material of any
substantial importance had been kept back from the knowledge of the Chief
Justice of India. The letter of May 7, 1981 written by the Chief Justice of
the Delhi High Court to the Law Minister which is quoted above more or less
contained the same particulars. There would have been some reason to
complain if the material contained in the letter of May 7, 1981 was
favourable to Shri S. N. Kumar and the Chief Justice of India had
recommended that Shri S. N. Kumar should not be appointed in ignorance of
the contents of the letter of May 7, 1981. On the other hand, on the basis
of the material which had been made available to him, the Chief Justice of
India had made a report favourable to Shri S. N. Kumar. There appears to be
not much substance in the submission that Shri S. N. Kumar was denied the
benefit of a further refutation by the Chief Justice of India of the
allegations in the letter of May 7, 1981 and that he had suffered thereby.
Such reiteration would not have added any further strength to his case. It
cannot, therefore, be said that the process of consultation had become
defective or that Shri S. N. Kumar had been prejudiced by reason of the
Government keeping back the letter dated May 7, 1981 from the knowledge of
the Chief Justice of India out of respect to the wishes of the Chief
Justice of the Delhi High Court.1125. One of the arguments urged on the
basis of the Law Minister's note dated May 19, 1981 may be disposed of
here. That argument is that since the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court
had stated that he was looking into the file of the Kissa Kursi Ka case
((later) V. C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Administration), in which Shri O. N. Vohra had
convicted late Shri Sanjay Gandhi (son of the Prime Minister) who was later
on acquitted by the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice of the Delhi High
Court was looking into irrelevant papers at the instance of the Law
Minister or the Prime Minister to find out some material against Shri O. N.
Vohra who was also not continued as Additional Judge and hence his opinion
given against Shri S. N. Kumar also was a motivated one. Apart from the
above reference to his looking into the file of Kissa Kursi Ka case,
((later) V. C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Administration), we do not have any other material
to draw the above conclusion except the fact that Shri Vohra also had not
been continued. It is not known what opinion was expressed by the Delhi
Chief Justice on that material. Shri Vohra himself has not questioned the
decision taken in his behalf. The Court cannot go outside the record.
Prejudice and passion cannot be allowed to overtake reason. It is not open
to the Court to draw an adverse inference against the Chief Justice of the
Delhi High Court who is not before the Court. Any attempt to do so would be
an unjudicial act. There is, therefore, no merit in this contention

1226. It is, however, contended that the Law Minister had tried to 'pre-
empt' the decision on the issue by making up his mind on May 27, 1981 not
to reappoint Shri S. N. Kumar even before the Chief Justice of India wrote
his final letter dated May 29, 1981 recommending reappointment of Shri
Kumar for a period of two years instead of three months as stated in the
letter dated May 22, 1981. There does not appear to be any undue haste or
impropriety on the part of the Law Minister in making his recommendation
not to appoint Shri kumar on May 27, 1981 for two reasons : (1) that the
Government had to take a decision on that question on or before May 27,
1981 as directed by the interim order referred to above and (2) that the
Law Minister had expressly kept out of consideration the I.B. reports while
taking his decision, as can be seen from the note of May 27, 1981 on which
alone the Chief Justice of India had reserved his opinion in his letter
dated May 22, 1981 which showed that on the other questions he had finally
expressed his opinion. Another point which may be noticed here is that the
granting of extension to a Judge pending enquiry into a material aspect of
the case may not strictly be in consonance with the Constitution. It may be
irregular to issue a warrant of appointment pending inquiry into the
fitness of the person to be appointed as a Judge. Hence it cannot be said
that there was any transgression of ordinary rules of official conduct on
the part of the Government in finally processing the file by May 27,
1981.1227. The President has taken his decision on a consideration of the
material before him and in doing so he is not shown to have relied on any
irrelevant ground. The President, as observed earlier, is entitled to
arrive at his own decision on the question of appointment of a Judge after
consultation with the dignitaries mentioned in Article 217(1) of the
Constitution. He is not, however, bound by the opinion of any of them
although he is expected to give due regard to the opinions expressed by
them. The President in the instant case has, as stated by the learned
Attorney-General, out of prudence decided not to reappoint Shri S. N. Kumar
as the opinions of the two constitutional dignitaries were conflicting on
the question of integrity, a question vital to the appointment of a Judge.
There appears to be no constitutional impropriety in the decision of the
President. The reason for not reappointing Shri Kumar is not an irrelevant
one. Moreover there is a distinction between the appointment of a Judge
without proper and effective consultation as required by Article 217(1) and
a non-appointment of a person as a Judge preceded by defective
consultation. In the former case the validity of the appointment may be
open to question but in the latter case ordinarily no petition will lie
except under an extraordinary case like the one here where the scope of Article 224 of the Constitution was not correctly understood by the
authorities. Every one of the authorities viz. the Law Minister, the Chief
Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court has
discharged his duties in this case with a sense of responsibility. But it
is unfortunate that they could not arrive at a unanimous opinion. If the
reasons had been irrelevant, probably the Court could have asked the
Government to reconsider the matter. But that is not the case here.1228.
Shri R. K. Garg, learned counsel for Shri Kumar strenuously urged before us
that Shri S. N. Kumar was ready to establish his innocence and an
opportunity should be given to him to do so. His anxiety in making that
submission is quite understandable. But unfortunately the Court cannot
undertake this function in view of the restricted scope of the jurisdiction
of this Court in this case. In spite of the limitations which appeared to
exist at the earlier stages of this case, this case has turned out to be
remarkable for two reasons. First, the Court directed for the purpose of
deciding this case the disclosure of the documents relating to the
appointment to a high constitutional office which may not have been
possible in any other Commonwealth country even now and secondly the Court
has come to the conclusion that it is open to the Court to determine
whether the decision not to reappoint Shri S. N. Kumar was due to cogent
reasons or not in the peculiar circumstances of this case even when the
relevant constitutional provisions are silent about it. In these two
respects, this case should be considered as an important milestone in the
development of administrative law in our country. The Court, however,
cannot proceed further in this case and try to find out the truth or
otherwise of the complaints said to have been made against Shri S. N.
Kumar. It is true that if the complaints are really untrue, then Shri Kumar
has paid the penalty for no fault committed by him. But it should be a
matter of some consolation that the Chief Justice of India has exonerated
him fully. It is also made clear that the Court has declined to grant the
prayer of Shri S. N. Kumar without expressing any opinion one way or the
other on his integrity or efficiency. The result of this case should
demonstrate to all those who are today holding the posts of Judges and to
those who aspire after judgeship how difficult it is to maintain the fair
image of a Judge. The decision of the President not to appoint Shri S. N.
Kumar as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Delhi cannot, therefore,
be interfered with.PART X

1229. The validity of the circular letter dated March 18, 1981 sent by the
Law Minister to all the Chief Ministers is seriously assailed before us by
the petitioners. It is contended by them that the letter amounts to a
threat to all the Additional Judges whose consent for being appointed as
permanent Judges in High Courts other than the one in which they were
working is sought. The Government contends that the letter does not contain
any such threat and that it had been sent in order to implement the policy
of the Government to have some Judges in every High Court who belong to
other States. By the letter in question, the Law Minister has requested the
Chief Ministers of States (except North-Eastern States) and the Governor of
Punjab to ascertain the wishes of all Additional Judges working in their
High Courts and persons whose names have been recommended for appointment
as Judges of High Courts whether they are willing to work in High Courts
outside their States. The circular letter reads : 3. While obtaining the consent and the preference of the persons mentioned
in Paragraph 2 above, it may be made clear to them that the furnishing of
the consent or the indication of a preference does not imply any commitment
on the part of Government either in regard to their appointment or in
regard to accommodation in accordance with the preferences given. 4. I would be grateful if action is initiated very early by you and the
written consent and preferences of all Additional Judges as well as of
persons recommended by you for initial appointment are sent to me within a
fortnight of the receipt of this letter. 5. I am also sending a copy of this letter to the Chief Justice of your
High Court. With regards,

Yours sincerely,

Sd/- (P. Shiv Shankar)

To 1. Governor of Punjab 2. Chief Ministers (by name) (except North-Eastern States)

1230. In its Fourteenth Report, the Law Commission suggested that the whole
country should be treated as a single unit for the purpose of selection of
Judges of the High Court. The relevant part of the report reads : The advantages gained by having persons from other States as Judges of High
Court were stated by the Law Commission presided over by Justice H. R.
Khanna, in its 80th Report thus : 1232A. Untwalia, J. observed in that very case at SCR page 507 thus : (SCC
p. 279, para 127)

. . . The purpose of national integration, if otherwise it is a good thing
to be achieved, or the need of a particular High Court for a Judge
possessing a particular type of proficiency or some such grounds of public
interest can well be achieved at the time of the initial appointments; as
for example, a member of the Bar practising in a particular High Court may
be appointed at the very threshold, if he so agrees to be appointed, a
Judge of another High Court so that after retirement he may come back and
resume his practice in the High Court where he was so doing. I shall,
perhaps, be crossing my permissible limits if I embark to write an essay or
a thesis on the various aspects of the needs of such public interest
highlighting the minus points also in them, nor will it serve any useful
purpose. These are matters of policy decision entirely within the realm of
the governmental power.1233. These two extracts from the decision in Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal
Sheth ,
clearly state that if as a matter of policy the Government proposes to
appoint some Judges in every High Court from outside the State, it is a
matter within the realm of the Government. They have not stated that it is
constitutionally impermissible to do so. 1234. The objections raised by the petitioners to the opinions of the Law
Commission referred to above are that they could not be relied on as the
said opinions had not been tested by the 'purifying process' of an argument
at the Bar and secondly the recruitment of members of the Bar or of the
subordinate judiciary functioning outside the State would be
unconstitutional as there would be no possibility of an effective
consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court and the Governor of
the concerned State as they would have no opportunity of personally
assessing the qualities of members of the Bar and the subordinate judiciary
working outside their jurisdiction. 1235. The Report of the Committees of the Law Commission are entitled to
great respect as they are prepared by experienced persons after taking into
consideration all relevant aspects and sometimes the evidence collected by
them from several sources. If they are to be excluded many opinions
expressed in many of the books relied on by the petitioners themselves have
to be excluded. Reports of the Law Commission can be looked into to
understand the history of the legislation, the object with which certain
legal provisions are enacted and what advantages may be derived by adopting
a particular policy. Reports of the Law Commission have been made use of by
this Court earlier to understand the history of the legislation which was
under consideration and the object with which it was passed (vide Balchand
Jain v. State of M.P. . The second limb of this argument overlooks the fact that the
Constitution does not state that the Chief Justice of the High Court and
the Governor of the State should personally know the persons recommended
under Article 217 of the Constitution and that they cannot collect
information about them by any other source such as the Chief Justice of the
High Court having jurisdiction over the area where they are working or the
Governor of the other State. In the true nature of things such personal
knowledge cannot be insisted upon. If that is insisted upon, the
consultation with the Chief Justice of India itself may turn out to be
ineffective for the very same reason for he cannot be expected to have
personal knowledge about many persons whose names are recommended by the
Chief Justices of the various High Courts and Governors. In the context of Article 217 , it has to be held that the functionaries who have to express
opinion under that article can ascertain all relevant information about a
person proposed for the appointment by any other reasonable means and they
need not know them personally. Any other view would result in the exclusion
of a large body of lawyers who are not practising before the High Courts
from consideration for appointment as High Court Judges, which certainly
could not have been the intention of the Constitution-makers.1236. The next
contention urged in this connection is that this is an indirect attempt to
transfer some Additional Judges from one High Court to another. It cannot
be so for the reason that the transfer of an Additional Judge [appointed
under Article 224(1)] unless the arrears have been cleared off and the
transfer of an acting Judge [appointed under Article 224(2)] in any event
would not be possible at all. An Additional Judge is appointed for a term
not exceeding two years only with a view to clearing off the arrears in a
High Court. If that is the sole object of appointing him, how can he be
transferred as an Additional Judge in the public interest from that Court
to another Court unless the purpose for which he is appointed is achieved
namely, clearing off the arrears ? Moreover when his stay as an Additional
Judge is very short it would not subserve the interest of efficiency of
public service if he is made to work in more than one High Court during
that short period unless there is not sufficient work to be assigned to him
in the High Court in which he is initially appointed as an Additional
Judge. The case of an acting Judge appointed under Article 224(2) of the
Constitution is a self-evident one. An acting Judge is appointed to act as
a Judge until the permanent Judge in whose place he is appointed has
resumed his office. He cannot, therefore, be transferred under Article 222 contrary to the express terms of Article 224(2). In view of this
declaration the petitioners cannot entertain any suspicion that the
circular letter has been issued to achieve the object of transferring
Additional Judges, during their tenure fixed under Article 224(1). This,
however, does not come in the way of an Additional Judge or an acting Judge
being appointed as a permanent Judge either in his own High Court or in any
other High Court before the tenure specified under Article 224(1) or Article 224(2) , as the case may be, comes to an end.1237. I also do not
find any substance in the submission made on behalf of some of the
petitioners that the circular letter of the Law Minister suggests that the
Additional Judges who have not given their consent would be under a
disadvantage in the matter of their continuance as Additional Judges or of
their appointment as permanent Judges in their own Court. The learned
Attorney-General has stated before the Court that "beyond any inherent or
incidental advantage that the implementation of the policy of appointing
outside Judges may confer, no other advantage or disadvantage is to be
visited on any person by reason of his having given consent or his refusal
in response to the inquiry stated in the impugned letter of March 18,
1981". In view of the above statement, I take it that the portion in
Paragraph 3 of the letter, namely, "it may be made clear to them that the
furnishing of the consent or the indication of a preference does not imply
any commitment on the part of Government either in regard to their
appointment or in regard to accommodation in accordance with the preference
given" does not carry with it any sinister design. It is submitted on
behalf of the Government that such a statement had to be made because the
necessary consultations under Article 217(1) of the Constitution had yet to
be made. This explanation is accepted reserving liberty to any Additional
Judge, who is prejudiced by his not giving consent, to approach the Court
for appropriate relief if an occasion arisen to do so. 1238. There is also no merit in the contention that since the circular
letter had been addressed without the previous consultation of the Chief
Justice of India, Article 217(1) and Article 222 of the Constitution had
been violated. The letter as can be seen from its tenor is intended to find
out whether any Additional Judge is willing to be appointed as a Judge in
any other High Court. Such appointment has to be made only in accordance
with Article 217(1) of the Constitution. Before making such appointment,
the President has to consult all the functionaries mentioned in Article
217(1) including the Chief Justice of India. Article 222 of the
Constitution does not come into picture at all as no transfer is
contemplated under the letter. The letter relates to initial appointments
only. In the circumstances there is no error committed by the Law Minister
in writing the impugned letter to the Chief Ministers.1239. All the
contentions of the petitioners regarding the circular letter of the Law
Minister dated March 18, 1981, therefore fail. PART XI

1240. We are concerned in the case of Shri K. B. N. Singh with the question
whether the order of his transfer as the Chief Justice of the High Court of
Madras is valid or not. Earlier it has been held that the consent of the
Judge to be transferred is not necessary under Article 222 of the
Constitution and that such transfer can be made in the public interest as laid down by the majority in Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth case ( Union of
India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth , . The order in question is an administrative order
which is passed by the President in accordance with the opinion expressed
by the Chief Justice of India, who is the sole authority to be consulted
under Article 222. In this case also as per directions of this Court, the
relevant papers have been produced by the Union Government. It is urged
that the manner in which consultation is made in this case is not in
accordance with law as the President had not initially asked the Chief
Justice of India to give his opinion on the question of transfer of Shri K.
B. N. Singh but the Chief Justice of India had on his own accord advised
the Union Government to transfer him first to the High Court of Rajasthan
and later on to the High Court of Madras. Article 222 does not lay down the
procedure to be followed for effecting a transfer. Even granting that the
proceedings for transfer of a Judge are initiated by the Chief Justice of
India the order of transfer would not be bad as under Article 217(1) of the
Constitution which is couched in almost the same language, an appointment
of a Judge would not be bad only because the Chief Justice of a High Court
who is one of the authorities to be consulted initiates the proposal. In
fact the practice has been that the Chief Justice of the High Court
invariably initiates it. This contention is not therefore one of substance.
The crux of the question is whether the authority exercising the power of
transfer has brought to the knowledge of the authority to be consulted all
the relevant material with it and has given sufficient opportunity to
tender his opinion. There is no allegation that the Government had kept
back any relevant information from the Chief Justice of India. The Chief
Justice of India himself says in his counter-affidavit that there was full
and effective consultation with him. A fair reading of the letter of the
Chief Justice of India dated December 7, 1980 shows that there was prior
discussion about the question of transfers of Chief Justices of High Courts
and that there was a suggestion by the Government that there should be a
transfer of all Chief Justices of High Courts so that in every High Court
there was a Chief Justice who hailed from outside the State. This
suggestion stems from the proposed policy of the Government which is clear
from the statement of the Law Minister in the Lok Sabha on July 24, 1980,
the relevant part of which reads : ".... Policy is whether we should have
the Chief Justice from outside. This is the policy. How we should have is a
matter of mechanism." There are similar references to it in some other
speeches of the Law Minister both in the Lok Sabha and in the Rajya Sabha.
Even though it appears from some of the speeches of the Law Minister that
such a policy had not taken a final shape, the Chief Justice of India had
been told that the Government had an idea to bring into force such a policy
before the middle of 1980. From certain notings on the file relating to the
appointment of Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court which were disclosed
by the Union Government as per orders of the Court dated November 18, 1981
it is evident that there was discussion between the Central Government and
the Chief Justice of India about the policy of appointing the Chief Justice
of every High Court from outside the State. The first note of the Law
Minister dated May 15, 1980 where he specifically refers to the said policy
refers to the discussion he had with the Chief Justice of India on it. The
next note in that file is of the Chief Justice of India. It is dated June
5, 1980 and the relevant part of it reads :It would become necessary in the
very near future to evolve an all-India policy for appointments of Chief
Justices in the various High Courts. The difficulties in taking any ad hoc
decision on that question are of such grave magnitude that it would be
impossible at this stage to appoint an outsider as a Chief Justice either
of the Delhi High Court or of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. . . . 1241. This note is followed by the note of the Law Minister dated July 21,
1980. In that it is stated : (g) I deny that when Shri K. B. N. Singh wanted to know over the telephone
on January 5 why he may be transferred to Madras, I stated merely that it
was the "Government policy" and gave no clue as to what necessitated his
transfer from Patna to Madras. I conveyed to him specifically that it was
proposed to transfer Shri Justice M. M. Ismail from Madras and it was
necessary to appoint an experienced and senior Chief Justice in his place. (h) It is true that Shri K. B. N. Singh told me over the telephone that his
mother was bedridden and was not in a position to go with him to Madras. I
deny that he told me of any other personal circumstance by reason of which
it would be difficult for him to go on transfer to Madras. The only
difficulty which he mentioned then or at any other time was that his mother
was old and bedridden and would not therefore be able to go to Madras. He
told me that if his transfer was insisted upon, he would prefer to resign.
I requested him not to act in haste and to give the matter a close thought.
I added that I was making a note of the difficulty mentioned by him and
that it will have to be taken into consideration before a final decision
was taken. I requested him to come to Delhi to discuss the question of his
transfer. (3) Shri K. B. N Singh has stated in Paragraph 9 of his affidavit that he
met me in Delhi three or four days later, told me of his acute and
insurmountable personal difficulties in the event of his transfer to
Madras, that he was with me for about 10-15 minutes and that I was non-
committal in the matter of his transfer. Shri K. B. N. Singh saw me at my
residence on January 8, 1981 at 7.30 p.m. He was with me for quite some
time much longer than 10 or 15 minutes. I discussed with him the question
of his mother's advanced age and illness, which his proposed transfer to
Madras. I told him that I was unable to agree with him since there were
other dependable persons in his family who could look after his mother and
that, in any case, his brother Shri S. B. N. Singh who was practising in
the High Court was quite capable of looking after the mother. He replied
that his mother had a special attachment to him and he could not leave her
to the care of his brother or other members of the family. It is true that
he said that it was possible that some baseless complaints may have been
made to me and that he would like to remove any wrong impression which
those complaints may have created. I told him that I do not go by baseless
complaints, that I did not believe that his conduct was blameworthy, but
that if he wanted to explain any matter, which according to him had created
dissatisfaction about the working of the High Court, he was free to do so.
Thereupon Shri K. B. N. Singh told me how certain persons connected with
the High Court were influenced by communal considerations and how he, on
his own part, did not permit communal or any other extraneous
considerations to influence him administratively or judicially. I assured
him that I did not hold that he himself was to blame but that certain
persons were exploiting their proximity to him which had created needless
misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. There are many more matters which he
mentioned on the evening of January 8, 1981 but they do not directly bear
upon the matters in issue herein and I will, therefore, not refer to them. 4. The statement contained in Paragraph 10 of the affidavit of Shri K. B.
N. Singh that he had not conveyed to me his consent to the proposed
transfer is true. I however deny that he was not consulted regarding his
transfer to Madras. I had discussed the matter with him threadbare on more
than two or three occasions. I deny that no reason, ground etc.
necessitating or justifying his transfer was disclosed to him or discussed
with him by me. On my part, I conveyed to him that his transfer was made in
public interest, that it was not made by way of punishment and that it was
also necessitated by the transfer of Shri Justice Ismail from Madras to
Kerala. 1252. Although Shri K. B. N. Singh has not fully accepted the facts
narrated in the passage extracted above, there is no reason for not
accepting in its entirety the statement made by the Chief Justice of India.
The above passage clearly shows that the Chief Justice of India had acted
strictly in accordance with the procedure indicated by him in Sankalchand
Himatlal Sheth case ( Union of India v. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth . There is,
therefore, no ground to hold that the case of Shri K. B. N. Singh's
transfer was not considered by the Chief Justice of India in a fair and
reasonable way. 1253. The next submission made on behalf of Shri K. B. N. Singh is that all
aspects of the case were not placed before the President by the Chief
Justice of India. This again is met by the statement of the Chief Justice
of India in his counter-affidavit that "there was full and effective
consultation between me and the President of India on the question of Shri
K. B. N. Singh's transfer from Patna to Madras as the Chief Justice of the
Madras High Court. Every relevant aspect of that question was discussed by
me fully with the President both before and after I proposed the transfer".
At the hearing the Court was informed that the President had not discussed
the matter personally with the Chief Justice of India. The expression
"President" should be understood here in the constitutional sence. The
discussion must have taken place with the Minister concerned. It is not
possible to accept the submission that no such discussion could have taken
place at all after Shri K. B. N. Singh met the Chief Justice of India on
the evening of January 8, 1981 because the Prime Minister had taken the
decision on January 9, 1981 and there was no written record in support of
it. From the records produced before us it is seen that discussion has gone
on between the authorities concerned sometimes over telephone and sometimes
at a meeting. No minutes are kept of many such discussions. It cannot,
therefore, be said that either there was no time to discuss or no such
discussion had taken place at all. It has to be borne in mind that the
Chief Justice of India asked Shri K. B. N. Singh to meet him at New Delhi
to discuss the matter further and accordingly Shri K. B. N. Singh met him
on January 8, 1981. If the Chief Justice of India had felt that any
representation to be made by Shri K. B. N. Singh was irrelevant he would
not have called him for discussion at New Delhi. After discussing the
matter with him he must have discussed the matter before the decision was
taken on January 9, 1981 with the other authority concerned.1254. In the
course of the discussion referred to above all matters which had come to
the knowledge of the Chief Justice of India must have been placed before
the person with whom the discussion had taken place. All official acts must
be deemed to have been done in accordance with law. There is, therefore, no
merit in this contention also. 1255. The last submission on the above question was that whereas the Chief
Justice of India had recommended that Shri K. B. N. Singh should be
transferred as a part of selective transfers, the President had treated
them as part of the policy of having a Chief Justice in every High Court
from outside the State which had not taken a final shape and therefore
there was no consensus on the object to be achieved by the transfer. As
already observed, the question of policy is within the realm of the
Government. Therefore, even if the Chief Justice of India considered that
the recommendation made by him was one of 6 or 7 transfers suggested by
him, which would mean for the time being a partial implementation of the
policy, it cannot be said that the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh is bad,
for all aspects relating to Shri K. B. N. Singh were considered by the
appropriate authority before ordering the transfer. The transfer in
question is not a stray case of transfer. A few other transfers were in
contemplation at the relevant time and they necessitated consideration of
individual cases separately. The transfers of Shri M. M. Ismail and Shri K.
B. N. Singh were ordered. In all probability but of these petitions some
more transfers would have materialised by now. We have to note that Article
222 of the Constitution is to confined only to policy transfers involving
all Judges. Even individual Judges may be transferred for administrative
reasons in the public interest. In the circumstances of the case, it is
difficult to hold that the transfer was an act of victimisation. One other
contention raised in this case is that the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu
and Bihar had not been consulted in accordance with a memorandum issued by
the Government. The question whether there can be any memorandum
supplementing the provisions of Article 222 is a matter of doubt. But since
the Court is informed that both the Chief Ministers had been consulted
about the transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh, there is no need to probe into
this point any further.1256. The decision to transfer a Judge under Article
222 of the Constitution, as already stated, is an administrative one. It is
not alleged that any of the functionaries participating in that decision
had any ill will against Shri K. B. N. Singh. The existence of mala fides
may have been a ground to set aside the impugned order of transfer provided
it had been alleged and established. In E. P. Royappa v. State of Tamil
Nadu ) while
rejecting a contention against an order of transfer which had been impugned in that case , Bhagwati, J. has observed thus : (SCC p. 41, para 92)

Secondly, we must not also overlook that the burden of establishing mala
fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it. The allegations of mala
fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of
such allegations demands proof of a high order or credibility. . . . 1257. In this case, no such allegation of mala fides is made against any
authority. On the other hand the material available in the case clearly
establishes that due procedure had been followed and all facts that justify
the transfer have been affirmatively proved. It is shown that the
authorities concerned felt satisfied about the need for the transfer. In
view of the above finding, Shri K. B. N. Singh cannot derive much
assistance from the observations made in the Barium Chemicals Ltd. v.
Company Law Board (1966 Supp SCR 311 :and in Rohtas Industries Ltd. v. S. D. Agarwal . On the facts and in the
circumstances of the case it is not possible to hold that the order of
transfer of Shri K. B. N. Singh as the Chief Justice of the High Court of
Madras is illegal and void.PART XII

1258. Now the question is what relief can be granted in these cases. In the
earlier part of this judgment there is a detailed discussion about the
continued neglect on the part of the Government in not making a proper
review from time to time of the number of permanent Judges necessary for
each High Court and the irregular exercise of power under Article 224(1) of
the Constitution in appointing Additional Judges even though it was
necessary to appoint permanent Judges. Even according to the Government
there is need to appoint at least 150 Judges to clear off the arrears
within two years. Article 216 of the Constitution, as observed earlier,
confers power on the President to appoint adequate number of Judges in
every High Court. In the United States of America the conditions in which a
writ of mandamus may be issued to a Governor or the President are set out
in Paragraphs 140, 141 and 153 in Volume 52 of the American Jurisprudence
2d under the title 'Mandamus' thus : Applying the foregoing rule, the courts have denied the writ when sought to
compel the Governor to call an election; count or reject votes cast at an
election; issue a commission or certificate of election to office; make an
appointment to office; rescind an order removing or suspending an officer;
recommend the passage of a particular law; sign or veto bills; institute a
proceeding for the transfer of a federal prisoner to the State court; grant
a pardon; approve a parole; borrow funds; sign or approve a warrant; issue
bonds; subscribe to stock as required by statute; appoint a commission to
appraise property which is sought to be condemned; allot or pay over money
received from the Federal Government; approve a contract; or perform other
like duties. If it is the constitutional or statutory duty of a Governor to exercise his
discretion with respect to a certain matter, he may be required by mandamus
to do so, but, of course, the writ does not lie to direct the manner in
which his discretion shall be exercised. 153. President of United States. - As is also true in the case of a State
Governor, which in most respects is a similar office, mandamus does not lie
to control the administrative or executive discretion of the President of
the United States, and if the President delegates one of his functions to
another officer, an order by the latter is an administrative order of the
President, which cannot be vacated by mandamus. The celebrated case of
Marbury v. Madison 5 US 137 : 2 L Ed 60 1803) is generally considered as
authority for the view that the courts have no jurisdiction to issue a writ
of mandamus against the President to compel him to perform any act
incidental to his office, whether purely ministerial in its character or
not, although the writ may issue against the heads of departments of the
Federal Government when the act to be performed is purely ministerial, not
involving judgment or discretion. On the other hand, in a latter case in
the Federal Supreme Court, although the case did not involve the President,
the Attorney-General of the United States in his argument, although
appearing in behalf of the officer to whom the writ of mandamus was prayed,
conceded that such a writ might be issued against the President of the
United States to compel him to perform a merely ministerial duty. . .1259.
Para 28 of Halsbury's Laws of England, (4th Edn.), Volume 1, page 32 reads
: performance of such a duty is a mere ministerial act. 1260. It is true the words in Article 216 of the Constitution are
undoubtedly empowering "but it has been so often decided as to have become
an axiom that in public statutes words only directory, permissory or
enabling may have a compulsory force where the thing to be done is for the
public benefit or in advancement of public justice" (vide R. v. Tithe
Commissioners 1849 14 QB 459, 474 : 19 LJQB 177 : 117 ER 179)). Earl Cairns
said in Julius v. Bishop of Oxford [1880] 5 A.C. 214, 222-223 : 49 LJQB 577
: 42 LT 546 (HL)), construing the words (it) 'shall be lawful' thus : The minister declined to refer the matter to the committee. Thereafter the
appellants applied to the Court for an order of mandamus commanding the
minister to refer the complaint to the Committee for investigation. The
Divisional Court made an order against the minister. But the Court of
Appeal by a majority (Diplock and Russell, L. JJ., Lord Denning, M.R.
dissenting) set aside the order of the Divisional Court. On further appeal
to the House of Lords, the appeal was allowed and the case was remitted.
The House of Lords held that the complaint was a substantial and a genuine
complaint, neither frivolous, repetitive nor vexatious, the reasons of the
minister for not referring the matter to the committee of investigation
namely that the complaint raised wide issues, that his reasons were
unfettered so that in effect it was sufficient that he should bona fide
have considered the matter, were not good reasons in law, and indeed left
out of account the merits of the complaint and showed that he was not
exercising his discretion in accordance with the intention of Section 19 of
the Act of 1958. The matter was remitted to the Queen's Bench Division to
require the minister to consider the application of the appellants in
accordance with law. Lord Upjohn in his concurring judgment observed that
even if the words in a statute conferred an unfettered discretion on the
minister, it ought not to make any difference in this case. He said at
pages 718-719 thus :My lords, I believe that the introduction of the
adjective 'unfettered' and its reliance thereon as an answer to the
appellants' claim is one of the fundamental matters confounding the
Minister's attitude, bona fide though it be. First, the adjective nowhere
appears in Section 19 , it is an unauthorised gloss by the Minister.
Secondly, even if the section did contain that adjective, I doubt if it
would make any difference in law to his powers, save to emphasise what he
has already, namely that acting lawfully he has a power of decision which
cannot be controlled by the courts; it is unfettered. But the use of that
adjective, even in an Act of Parliament, can do nothing to unfetter the
control which the judiciary have over the executive, namely that in
exercising their powers the latter must act lawfully, and that is a matter
to be determined by looking at the Act and its scope and object in
conferring a discretion on the Minister rather than by the use of
adjectives. 1262. The importance of the decision in Padfield case [1968] 1 All E.R. 694
: [1968] A.C. 997 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 924 (HL)) was underscored by Lord
Denning, M.R. in Breen v. Amalgamated Engineering Union (1971 2 QB 175, 190
: [1971] 1 All E.R. 1148 : [1971] 2 W.L.R. 742 (CA)) thus : (All ER pp.
1153-54)

. . . The discretion of a statutory body is never unfettered. It is a
discretion which is to be exercised according to law. That means at least
this : the statutory body must be guided by relevant considerations and not
by irrelevant. If its decision is influenced by extraneous considerations
which it ought not to have taken into account, then the decision cannot
stand. No matter that the statutory body may have acted in good faith;
nevertheless the decision will be set aside, That is established by
Padfield v. Minister of Agriculture Fisheries and Food [1968] 1 All E.R.
694 : [1968] A.C. 997 : [1968] 2 W.L.R. 924 (HL)), which is a landmark in
modern administrative law.1263. Notwithstanding the principle of separation
of powers found entrenched in the Constitution of the United Stated of
America, as can be seen from the last part of para 141 of Volume 52 of the
American Jurisprudence 2d under the title 'Mandamus', if it is the
constitutional or statutory duty of a Governor or the President to exercise
his discretion with respect to a certain matter he may be required by
mandamus to do so but the manner in which he has to discharge that duty
cannot be directed by the courts. As observed in the English decision
referred to above it is manifest that a statutory discretion is not
necessarily or indeed usually absolute, it may be qualified by express and
implied legal duties to comply with substantive and procedural requirements
before a decision is taken, whether to act and how to act. I am of the view
that the power conferred on the President by Article 216 of the
Constitution to appoint sufficient number of Judges is a power coupled with
a duty and is not merely a political function. In the instant case
ordinarily the court would have been reluctant to issue any mandamus to the
Government to comply with the duty of determination of the strength of
Judges of High Courts. But having regard to the undisputed total inadequacy
of the strength of Judges in many High Courts, it appears to be inevitable
that the Union Government should be directed to determine within a
reasonable time the strength of permanent Judges required for the disposal
of cases instituted in them and to take steps to fill up the vacancies
after making such determination. 1264. At this stage it should be mentioned that Shri P. R. Mridul made a
statement on behalf of the Minister of Law, Union of India in the course of
his arguments as follows :