SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: MotherConcern.org - Possibly Fraudulent NGO
DATE: 2016-12-13
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5i3nhz/motherconcernorg_possibly_fraudulent_ngo/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Guys. Long post ahead but I think it is worth it.

I recently got a call from someone claiming to be a student volunteer from the organisation "motherconcern.org". They claim to help under-privileged patients in dire need of money. This was the second time I got a call from the organisation so I paid some attention, especially because of how similar it was to the previous one.

Their phone calls start by introducing themselves as amateur student volunteers and goes on to describe the condition of a particular patient they are trying to help. They use HEAVY emotional blackmail, by telling you stuff like "if it was your sister or brother, wouldn't you wanna help?" or "if she doesn't get 40k for her treatment by today evening, the doctors won't treat her", etc. Then they go on to ask you about your email ID so that they can send you an email with the details of their organisation and the patient to establish credibility. When I asked him how he got my number, he said that he did through some blood donation drive which was surprising as I'd never ever donated blood and if someone had given my number for something like that, I'd have known.

If you believe them, they ask you to pay through their website and they are a legitimate NGO by the looks of it (the only reason why I'm still not sure they are fake). However, the persistence of the volunteer was something I found fishy and his insistence on proving his credibility had me alert too.

The first thing I did was to obviously search on google. As I cannot post a quora link here, I'd suggest you guys google it for yourself. If you need more reference, I can message you the details. Here is what I found :

1. [ComplaintBoard.in](http://www.complaintboard.in/complaints-reviews/www-motherconcern-org-l512540.html) (you can see their copy pasted messages on it)
2. [An article on a similar agency called Relief India Trust](http://www.technorange.com/2015/09/sting-operation-relief-trust-india-review-its-a-scam-complete-review-and-analysis-with-proofs/) (with analysis and proof by the author)

The common allegations against MotherConcern are that people have tried calling the hospital named by the volunteer and the hospital told them it's false as the patient isn't admitted there or no procedure in that hospital is worth the amount mentioned, etc. Some people also claim that the documents that are provided by them are fake. (I never shared my email so they never sent me the documents, but they have sent such an email to friends of mine and I can provide if anyone wants. The quora link also has the email posted by many people which is more or less the same for everyone, so feel free to check there)

They called a friend of mine today after he shared his email with them yesterday and I had the fortune of being around at the time. I grabbed the phone and asked the volunteer to tell me the tale again, while also informing her that I shall be recording what she says in the eventuality that it is fake. The moment I said that she started shouting at me calling me "badtameez", etc saying that if I don't trust them I can check their email (She said that atleast 10 times every time I tried to make the point that she doesn't have to worry about anything if she hasn't done anything wrong) and that a kid's life is in danger and I could be the reason she doesn't get the treatment she needs. She soon picked up on the fact that I was not the person she spoke to yesterday and became even more aggressive and was actually yelling something when I hung up because I had the same redundant conversation with her for 10 minutes with no progress.

I wrote this because I was utterly dismayed that there are people out there who think it is okay to take someone's (probably) honest earned money by evoking guilt and using the name of charity. In fact, I don't even know for sure how to ascertain the legitimacy of this supposedly noble organisation. A part of me really hopes that the organisation is real and that the money people have donated to it (which could easily be in lakhs) has been used to treat people that need it but can't afford it. However, in light of all that I have read and my conversations over the phone with their volunteers, I'm not at all convinced by their authenticity.

So tell me guys. What do you think? How do I verify what they say. If they are fake, what action can I or we as individuals take against such organisations? Please be observant before donating your money anywhere. This has been bothering me a lot because this is the type of shit that affects mine and other people's faith in people. Has anyone encountered a similar experience?