This petition for pre-arrest bail has been filed by petitioner

Shavinder Pal Singh, an accused in F.I.R. No. 164 dated 14.4.2018 for

offences under Sections 406 / 408 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 506 / 120-B IPC

registered with Police Station Baldev Nagar, District Ambala. Briefly stated the facts of the case as per prosecution story are

that Ashok Kumar, Director of 'E-Pay Infoserve Private Limited' had

submitted a written complaint to the police to the effect that his company is

engaged in collecting electricity bills from consumers of Uttri Haryana

Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (hereinafter referred as UHBVN Ltd.) That

the company had appointed Adarsh Bharti as a coordinator for Ambala City

for collection of electricity bills from 23 counters and to deposit the same in

the account of UHBVN Ltd. Adarsh Bharti had further engaged Shavinder

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-06-2018 00:14:55 ::: CRM-M No. 18439 of 2018 2 Pal Singh-petitioner for collecting the electricity bills from consumers in

Baldev Nagar and Model Town areas. Subsequently, Petitioner Shavinder

Pal Singh had engaged one Mohit also for that purpose but he had not

intimated the company in that regard. That Adarsh Bharti in conspiracy with

Shavinder Pal Singh and Mohit used to receive the bill amounts from the

consumers and issue receipts to them by affixing seal on the bills but

without putting signatures. They did not deposit the amount in the account

of Electricity Department. After two months, when consumers received the

bills with dues of the previous bills, the company came to know about the

fraud being committed by the accused, which revealed that a sum of Rs.30

lacs had been misappropriated. The petitioner was found to have played a

major role in the scam. On being confronted with such situation, he

admitted having utilised amount so collected for his personal use requesting

the company for giving him time upto 5.3.2018. He had given security

cheque of Rs.25 lac drawn on Kotak Mahendra Bank. However, that cheque

was dishonoured on account of insufficiency of funds. When this fact was

brought to his knowledge he threatened to kill the officials of the company. On basis of such complaint, formal F.I.R. was registered. The

investigation in the case started which reveal that the petitioner-accused had

though collected a sum of Rs. 32 lacs against 1200 bills but failed to deposit

that amount in account of UHBVN Ltd. Apprehending his arrest in this case, the petitioner had

approached the court of Sessions by moving an application under Section

438 Cr.P.C. which was assigned to Additional Sessions Judge, Ambala, who

vide order dated 17.4.2018 dismissed that application as such he has

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-06-2018 00:14:56 ::: CRM-M No. 18439 of 2018 3 approached this Court craving for grant of similar relief, which request is

opposed by the State counsel and counsel representing the complainant. I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going

through the record. Pre-arrest bail is a discretionary relief which is to be granted in

exceptional circumstances and not in routine. This relief is to protect the

innocent persons from arrest and not to help the criminals from escaping

custodial interrogation. Admittedly, custodial interrogation is more

elicitation oriented. A person couched in comparative safety of pre arrest

bail would certainly not come out with the entire facts within his knowledge

and would not get the recovery effected. In case of State represented by the

C.B.I. Versus Anil Sharma, 1997(4) R.C.R.(Criminal) 268 Hon'ble Apex

Court had observed that custodial interrogation is qualitatively more

elicitation orientated than questioning a suspect who is on anticipatory bail,

in a case like this interrogation of suspected person is of tremendous

advantage in getting useful information. In this case, the allegations against the petitioner are very grave

and serious of collecting the amounts from consumers of Electricity Board

without depositing the same in its account. As stated by learned counsel for

the complainant, the scam comes out to be involving more than 45 lacs till

date. The petitioner had admitted his guilt by making statement to the police

and in the form of written applications addressed to SHO of Police Station

concerned. The cheque in the sum of Rs.25 lac issued by him in favour of

the company said to have bounced. Now it does not lie in its mouth to deny

that he had collected the amount to deposit the same in the account of

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 11-06-2018 00:14:56 ::: CRM-M No. 18439 of 2018 4 Electricity Department. Custodial interrogation of petitioner is necessary for complete

and effective investigation so as to find out as to how the conspiracy was

carried out, the scam was hatched, which persons were involved therein, the

role played by each one of them and to effect the recovery of the embezelled

amount. In case custodial interrogation is denied to the investigating agency

that would adversely effect the investigation, which is uncalled for. Finding no merit in the petition, the same stands dismissed.