We missed this earlier: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has now mandated the additional factor of authentication (AFA) for online international “card not present” ( CNP ) transactions through a draft circular . By doing so, the central bank seeks to increase the safety of online international transactions, providing an “additional level of security” for cases where the overseas merchant enables AFA.

The process includes three steps. First, card issuers must register their bank identification numbers (BINs) with card networks for AFA validation. Second, they must validate the AFA for non-recurring cross-border CNP transactions whenever such a request is raised by the overseas merchant. Third, card issuers must establish a “risk-based mechanism” for handling all such transactions. The directions will come into effect three months from the date on which the circular was issued and comments/feedback on the same can be submitted by March 10, 2025.

MediaNama reached out to payment gateways like Razorpay, Cashfree, and PhonePe, alongside the Merchants Payment Alliance of India (MPAI) for a comment on this development and is awaiting their response.

Till now, RBI mandated AFA solely for domestic card transactions. For context, AFA requires more than one factor for authenticating a payment instruction and categorizes them as PIN, dynamic one-time password (OTP), and static code, among others to safeguard against fraud.

Further, in August 2024, the apex bank introduced a draft framework on alternative authentication mechanisms for digital payment transactions. Within this, the RBI mandated AFA for all transactions undertaken using cards, prepaid instruments, and mobile banking channels.

With the surge in digital payments, the cases of online fraud have also surged. According to RBI’s data , digital frauds accounted for Rs 1,457 crore in the financial year (FY) 2023-24, marking a fivefold jump from Rs 277 crore in FY 2022-23. Taking note of these, RBI has undertaken awareness initiatives via SMS and radio, including the e-BAAT program on risk mitigation to curb financial fraud. Further, as the number of internet users grew by 7.3 million from 2023-24, it translates into the expansion of India’s e-commerce market, which in turn warrants greater consumer safety for online users.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event