SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Today, I was the idiot who fell to an e-commerce scam and lost 30,000 of my sister's hard earned money
DATE: 2021-09-14
SCORE: 2039
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/po0tlf/today_i_was_the_idiot_who_fell_to_an_ecommerce/

--- POST TEXT ---

Don't know if it will be deleted. Just wanted to vent about how big of an idiot I am. 

A certain e-commerce brand, where my sister shops from regularly sent her a message that some exclusive customers were being given the opportunity to shop for 5,999+ and they would send an assured gift (iPhone, Laptop, Fridge, she could choose from any). 

She got hyped, and neither I nor her checked if this was legitimate. Either of us could have confirmed with the customer care, but didnt. Just a DP of the brand on whatsapp and "Cool, okay". (RED FLAG #1)

She sent them screenshot of the things she planned to purchase, because they said we'd have to pay separately for this, not from their app/website (RED FLAG #2 that I missed). 

She paid them for the shopping through a bank-to-bank transfer. FUCK ME I'M AN IDIOT FOR NOT CATCHING ONTO THIS. 

I'm dying inside as I type the rest because the next part is ALL ON ME . 

They then say that they need to issue a GST Invoice for the gift, and something of that regard, and we have to transfer them another 12k for a GST Refund or something, I don't clearly remember (RED FLAG#3). They will refund within 1 minute, is what they said to me. My sister was a bit suspicious at this time, and reached out to me regarding this. So I do a bank transfer. My sister's money, hard earned, and fuck I wasn't careful at all. I TRANSFERRED IT. Shared screenshot with them, they're still on the call. They forwarded it to the "Refunds department" where another person picks up the conversation and checks something for a minute, then saying that there is a problem with the refund, that I typed out the remarks incorrectly, that I left a space for "GST REFUND" when there shouldn't have been. I need to transfer another 12k. Alarms are ringing inside, but the way they were talking to me it still seemed plausible for some reason. For some fucking reason my brain wasn't coming to the realisation what was happening. 

My sister was getting in call with the brand customer care at this time while I was on call with them, and while she was talking to them I transferred them another 12k, this time writing the correct remarks. I feel like I'll fall down right now, into the earth, as I am typing this. I feel disgusted by myself. 

I transferred them 24,000 in a matter of 15 minutes, didn't even wait for customer service to say that "Okay, this isn't us". I fucked up. Pretty bad. 

This time again they say they cannot refund the amount as they had some minimum quota of 34,000 that can be refunded so I needed to pay another amount. Caught on this lie,but it was a too late. Told them to refund what we had given them, we didn't want to participate, but nope. "We can't do it". Yada yada yada. My sister at this time was shaking, weeping and I was horrified, but still calm. My sister took the phone and started swearing at them, but I was still the idiot because I was still thinking, maybe this is okay. Maybe this is legit. I just didn't want to accept that I had been scammed. 

I did come to the realisation and after ending that call, called the customer care of the bank, blocked the account, and we are no filing a complaint with the bank and the cyber cell, and RBI. 

The money is gone, I know. 

We're both in our 20s, and I always considered myself careful when it came to this stuff. But today I was the dumb ass. Fucked up badly. I probably won't be doing okay for the next few days/weeks. 

I hope this encounter saves someone from making the same mistake.

Edit: Thank you all for the uplifting comments and awards. It was a hard to sleep it off but I do feel just a little better today. I'll try to reply to comments as much as possible but it's getting a little out hand right now. 

Thank you for the awards as well! I hope this post does save someone else from making the same mistake, it definitely knocked me out of my comfort circle that I had going and I'm definitely going to be much more vigilant from now.