This is the website link if that fake escort- https://ii.skokka.com/call-girls/nagpur/pooja-sharma-best-call-girl-service-24-h... ⇄ I am a Student and have ran out of money. Please help me as early as possible THEY HAVE TOOK 11, 200 RS from me. I'm a currently living in Nagpur, far from home and studying. And this incident happened with me In Nagpur only. I am also attaching the Proof which I'm having. I don't have any money and just having some limited cash. Please help me out as early as possible sir. I'll be grateful to you Here's my story I got the number of escort from a website. I messaged them. They sent me photos of escort and asked 200 as advance. I paid them. Later they sent me location of a Hotel and asked me to reach there. [ Hotel Name - Hotel Orient Avenue] I arrived near Hotel and then messaged them. They asked for 2000 rs first, This was for specific time you'll be spending, I paid Then they asked me to pay 4500 rs as security deposit, I hesitated to pay, later they said we'll refund you this amount when you'll checkout. Then I paid and sent them the screenshot. Then they said sir 4500rs for both of you. Then I got to know that I have been stuck. I asked them to return my money. They said it's not possible sir. We have to generate receipt then only we can return and for that you've to pay the remaining amount. I had only 3000 left in my account. I told them that I can't pay you 4500. Earlier i bought 2000 in cash which they later said that you've to pay online only So they said ok pay 3000 online and remaining offline. And after sometime they called me and said receipt can't be prepared, you've to pay online. So I went to a mobile store and gave them 1500 cash and they transferred to my bank account. And i paid them and sent the screenshot. And they later started asking for 8000 rupee for verification. And i started crying that I don't have any money please return my money. They after a long time said ok we'll return you in 2 hour. But they didn't. Please help me sir. I have screenshot available of payment and Chats and some voice recording of their as a proof. Please help me sir. I can't tell this to my parents. Please help me. Save me sir. I don't have any money in bank account Escort service Phone number 1. +[protected] 2. +[protected] Their UPI number for Phone PE and Paytm [protected] Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)