R.F. Nariman, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The present appeals are filed against the judgment of a Single Judge

 of the Bombay High Court dated 07.01.2019, by which four final

 awards made by a sole arbitrator in London under the London Court of

 International Arbitration Rules (2014) (hereinafter referred to as the

 “LCIA Rules”) were held to be enforceable against the Appellants in Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by SUSHMA KUMARI BAJAJ Date: 2020.02.13 India. 3. The brief facts of this case are as follows. The Appellants, i.e.

 Appellant No.1 Shri Vijay Karia, and Appellants No.2 to 39 (who are

 represented by Appellant No.1) are individual, non-corporate

 shareholders of Ravin Cables Limited (hereinafter referred to as

 “Ravin”). On 19.01.2010, the Appellants and Ravin entered into a Joint

 Venture Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “JVA”) with Respondent

 No.1, i.e. Prysmian Cavi E Sistemi SRL – a company registered under

 the laws of Italy. By this JVA, Respondent No.1 acquired a majority

 shareholding (51%) of Ravin’s share capital. The material clauses of

 the JVA are set out hereinbelow: or 2 (ii) The date of which the Existing Shareholders cease
to hold in the aggregate at least ten percent (10%) of
the share capital of the Company: For the sake of clarity, it is agreed that this Clause
21.4 shall apply, without being limited, to the activities
carried out by (i) Vijay Industrial Electricals, a
company incorporated under the laws of India and
having its registered office at 302, Akruti Trade Centre,
Third Floor, Road n. 7, MIDC, Marol, Andheri(east)
Mumbai-400093 (ii) Special Cable Industries, a
company incorporated under the laws of India and
having its registered office at A-1/404 GIDC Estate,
Ankleshwar 393002.”
“23. Event of Default
23.1 If any party(“ Defaulting Party”) is in material
breach of any provisions, obligations, covenants,
conditions and undertakings under this Agreement , or
in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the
Defaulting Party or if the substantial undertaking or
assets of the Defaulting Party is under receivership or
any other equivalent status, it shall be considered as
an event of default (“Event of Default”). 23.2 In such an event, the other party (“Non Defaulting
Party”) may give notice of the same (“Determination
Notice”) to the Defaulting Party. 23.3 The Defaulting Party shall have a period of
60(sixty) calendar days from the receipt of the
Determination Notice (or Such further period as the
Non Defaulting Party may agree in writing) to rectify
the Event of Default(“ Rectification Period”). It is
hereby clarified that this clause 23.3 is not applicable if
the Event of Default is represented by the insolvency
or bankruptcy of the defaulting Party in which case the
Non Defaulting Party may forthwith serve the EOD
Notice to the Defaulting Party. 23.4 If upon expiry of the Rectification Period, the
Event of Default has not been so rectified the Non 6 Defaulting Party may require the Defaulting Party by
written notice(“EOD Notice”) to either (i) sell to the Non
Defaulting Party or such other Person as may be
nominated by the Non Defaulting Party, all , but not
less than all, the Shares held by the Defaulting Party
(“Defaulting Party Shares”) at the 10% (ten percent)
discount to the Fair Market Value(“ Discounted Price”)
or (ii) buy from the Non Defaulting Party all, but not
less than all, the Shares held by the Non Defaulting
Party at 10% (ten percent) over the Fair Market
Value(“Premium Price”). The Defaulting Party shall be
then under the obligation to either (I) sell all, but not
less than all, its Shares in the Company within 30
(thirty) calendar days of the EOD Notice or (II) buy all,
but not less than all, the Non Defaulting Party Shares
in the Company within 30(thirty) calendar days of the
EOD Notice, as the case may be. 23.5 It is hereby agreed that: For sake of clarity, the Parties agree that for the
purpose of this Clause 23.5 any reference to Mr. Karia
Shares, Prysmian Shares and Existing Shareholders
Share shall be deemed to include any Shares
transferred to any or their respective Affiliates pursuant
to the provisions of Clause 10.4 above.”
“27. ARBITRATION
27.1 Dispute Resolution 7 27.1.1 The Parties agree to use all reasonable efforts
to resolve any dispute under, or in relation to this
Agreement quickly and amicably to achieve timely and
full performance of the terms of this Agreement.
27.1.2 Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of
or relating to or in connection with this Agreement
including a dispute as to the validity or existence of the
Agreement or the arbitration agreement, or any breach
or alleged breach thereof, shall be settled exclusively
by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the
London Court of International Arbitration (“LCIA”) as
amended from time to time. 27.1.3 The arbitral tribunal (“Tribunal”) shall consist of
one (1) arbitrator, to be appointed by the LCIA. The
arbitrator shall be from a neutral nationality, i.e. from a
nationality and origin other than any of the Parties.
27.1.4 The seat of the arbitration shall be London,
United Kingdom. 27.1.5 The language to be used in the arbitration shall
be English. 27.1.6 The law applicable and governing the
arbitration agreement (proper law of the arbitration
agreement) and in all respects including the conduct of
the proceedings shall be English Law. If the Institution
above named ceases to exist or is unable for any
reason to administer the arbitration proceedings then
the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with
the (English) Arbitration ACT 1996 as amended from
time to time or any statute that may replace the said
Act. 27.1.7 Parties expressly agree that Part I of the
(Indian) Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (as
amended from time to time and any statutory
enactment thereof) shall have no application to the
arbitration agreement or the conduct of arbitration or to
the setting aside of any award made there under, and
the provisions of Part I ) including the provisions of section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
is hereby expressly excluded…. 27.1.9 The arbitration award (the “Award”) shall be
 final and binding on the Parties. 27.1.10 The courts of London (United Kingdom) shall
 have exclusive jurisdiction in respect of all matters
 arising in connection with the arbitration and Existing
 Shareholders submits to the jurisdiction of the said
 courts. Provided however that the Award may be
 enforced in any appropriate jurisdiction. If to be
 enforced in India the Award shall be a foreign award to
 which the legislative provisions incorporated in the
 applicable Indian Act to give effect to the New York
 Convention on foreign arbitral awards 1958 ( the New
 York Convention) shall apply(currently Part II of the
 (Indian) Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996)…” 4. By a separate ‘Control Premium Agreement’ of the same date,

 Respondent No.1 paid €5 million to the Appellants as ‘control premium’

 for the acquisition of the share capital of Ravin. 5. On 10.08.2010, pursuant to clause 12 of the JVA - as the interim

 period of six months under the JVA had come to an end - one Mr. Luigi

 Sarogni was appointed as CEO of Ravin by Respondent No.1. Until

 the expiry of the ‘integration period’, Ravin was to be jointly managed

 by the said CEO and the Managing Director for another period of six

 months. Factually, however, we are informed that the said ‘integration

 period’ carried on beyond December 2010 and continued until

 September 2011. 6. In April 2011, Mr. Giancarlo Esposito was designated by Respondent

 No.1 as the H.R. Director of Ravin. On 15.09.2011, the Board of

 Directors of Ravin conferred exclusive powers of the day to day

 management of the company on the CEO so appointed by 9 Respondent No.1. It is the case of Respondent No.1 that the

appointed CEO was thwarted in jointly managing the company during

this ‘integration period’, as a result of which, in November 2011, one

Ms. Cinzia Farise was appointed as CEO in the place of Mr. Sarogni

by the Board of Directors. Since the Board Resolution of 01.11.2011

conferred on Ms. Farise the power to employ and lay-off permanent

staff, she imposed a temporary freeze and check on new hiring without

her approval, which was alleged to be breached by the Appellants. Later, from December 2011 till February 2012, Ms. Farise sought to

convene a board-meeting to finalise one Mr. Brunetti’s appointment as

CFO of Ravin, which was assented to by the Respondent’s Directors,

but not signed by the Appellant’s Directors. Things reached a head on

31.01.2012 when the employees of the company went on a strike at

Ravin’s Akruti office. By February 2012, the Appellants and

Respondent No.1 were at loggerheads, as a result of which

Respondent No.1 issued a request for arbitration in terms of clause 27

of the JVA, claiming that the Appellants had committed ‘material

breaches’ of the JVA, inter alia, by ousting Respondent No.1 from the

control of Ravin altogether. On 26.03.2012, the Appellants responded

to the request for arbitration and included several counter claims. Each

party claimed that the other had committed material breaches, as a

result of which the successful party in the arbitration would be entitled 10 under the JVA to buy out the other party at a 10% premium or discount

 (as the case may be). Given the fact that the JVA required service of a

 ‘Determination Notice’ which alleged material breaches, such notice

 was served by Respondent No.1 on the Appellants on 26.03.2012. Sixty days from this date, called a ‘Rectification Period’ under the JVA,

 notice was given by the Respondent No.1 to the Appellants to

 remedy/rectify the alleged breaches. Further time even beyond the

 sixty days, i.e. until 06.07.2012 was given, but according to

 Respondent No.1, none of the breaches were remedied. As a result,

 on 06.06.2012, the LCIA appointed a sole arbitrator - one Mr. David

 Joseph QC - to adjudicate the dispute between the parties. 7. An early skirmish was contained in a letter dated 07.06.2012, alleging

 that the learned arbitrator was conflicted, as he had been engaged as

 counsel by Respondent’s advocates, Bharucha and Partners, in

 another unconnected matter. However, on 08.06.2012, Bharucha and

 Partners wrote a letter making it clear there was no such conflict. The

 sole arbitrator also denied any such conflict. The LCIA Registry

 informed the Appellants that they could challenge the appointment of

 the sole arbitrator under the LCIA Rules if they so desired. The

 Appellants, however, gave up the right to any such challenge. As a

 result, on 04.07.2012, Respondent No.1 filed its Statement of Claim

 before the learned sole arbitrator. On 09.09.2012, the Appellants then 11 filed their statement of defence and counter claims. On 28.09.2012,

 Respondent No.1 filed its rejoinder and opposition to the counter

 claim. 8. Meanwhile, various procedural orders were passed by the learned

 arbitrator for production of documents etc. A hearing then took place in

 December 2012 on questions relating to the construction of various

 clauses of the JVA and jurisdictional issues raised by Respondent

 No.1 in respect of certain counter claims of the Appellants. Deciding

 these issues, by what was called the ‘First Partial Final Award’ dated

 15.02.2013, the sole arbitrator delineated the scope of the first award

 stating that it was restricted only to issues of interpretation of the JVA

 and questions of jurisdiction, and not to the merits of either the claims

 or counter claims made. In particular, the sole arbitrator construed

 clause 21.1 of the JVA as follows: rectified material breach (i) and/or material
 breach (2) if it is subsequently discovered.
 This is because a concealed, but subsequently
 discovered, Event of Default which has not been
 rectified at the end of the Rectification Period is 15 still an un-rectified Event of Default for the
 purpose of Clause 23.4; 5) Equally, if a Defaulting Party has not rectified a
 concealed Event of Default at the end of a
 Rectification Period, then, it is a matter which
 can be relied upon by the Non Defaulting Party
 under Clause 23.7, so to give rise to the
 deprivation or alteration of rights set out therein; 6) An Event of Default is defined as a material
 breach of any provisions, obligations, covenants,
 conditions, and undertakings. The definition of
 an Event of Default is not conditional upon the
 giving of a Determination Notice. The
 consequences, however, under Clause 23 do
 depend upon the giving of a Determination
 Notice and expiry of a Rectification Period; 7) Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 23 and
 Clause 23.4, in particular with regard to Events
 of Default and Determination Notice, the Non
 Defaulting Party in addition possesses all the
 rights to damages and performance expressed
 in Clause 23.6; 8) It remains open for argument, and the Tribunal
 makes no decisions as to whether a party can
 give a Determination Notice to the other party, if
 in fact at the time of the giving of the notice, the
 party giving the notice is itself in material breach.
 This question was raised by the Tribunal in the
 course of oral submissions, but has not been
 fully addressed by the parties, and, indeed, is
 probably best addressed at the full merits
 hearing.” 11. Insofar as the arbitrator’s ruling on jurisdiction was concerned, it was

 held that a dispute regarding the right to register the ‘Ravin’ trademark

 falls outside the scope of the arbitration clause under the JVA. He

 further held that the trademark licence agreements contained 16 arbitration clauses which provided for disputes to be referred to

 arbitration in Milan, Italy under Italian law, and this being the case, any

 dispute in relation to these agreements would be outside the ken of

 the arbitration clause contained in the JVA. 12. The ‘Second Partial Final Award’ dated 19.12.2013 then dealt with

 which of the parties materially breached the terms and conditions of

 the JVA. The claims, in this respect, made by Respondent No.1, were

 disposed of as follows: As such, there is a material breach in relation to
 the Claimant’s combined allegations that the
 Respondents incited staff to surround,
 sequester, heckle, humiliate and threaten Mr
 Esposito and Mr Kamdar on those dates; 7) the Respondents encouraged and failed to
 prevent Company employees from going on
 strike on 31 January 2012 and the Respondents
 encouraged and incited indiscipline and
 breach of Company policies and procedures by
 supporting Mr Dhall in his insubordination and
 defiance of direct orders of Mr Esposito and Ms
 Farise in material breach of JVA Clauses 12
 and/or 8 and/or 20.1.2; 8) see (7) above; 9) the Respondents were not in breach of the JVA
 by refusing to convene a Board meeting at short
 notice; 10) Mr Karia’s letters to the FRRO were hand-
 delivered on 29 February 2012 and therefore
 cannot be considered in relation to the events
 constituting material breach as alleged in the
 Request dated 27 February 2012. Nevertheless,
 the Tribunal finds that the letters to the FRRO
 are consistent with Mr Karia’s modus operandi
 and support the Tribunal’s other findings of
 material breach. (4) Rectification of the Events of Default found to have
 been committed by the Respondents 200. The Claimant submits that none of the alleged
 material breaches were rectifiable and, in any event,
 by the end of the Rectification Period, i.e. 27 April
 2012, and by the end of the extended period for
 rectification, i.e. 6 July 2012, the Respondents had not
 rectified any of their breaches. On the contrary, the
 Claimant submits that during the period between 28
 February 2012 and 6 July 2012, the Respondents
 continued to breach the JVA by conduct which was
 calculated to destroy the relationship of trust and
 confidence between the parties and completely
 remove or render redundant any element of Claimant
 control over Ravin. As stated above, however, these
 post-Request breaches are not the subject of this
 Award (see, inter alia, Claimant’s CS §§730-737). 201. The Respondents do not contend that they
 rectified any of the alleged breaches of the JVA by 6
 July 2012. 202. The Tribunal concludes that, in relation to the
 material breaches committed by the Respondents, the
 Respondents failed to rectify those breaches within the
 extended period for rectification, i.e. by 6 July 2012.” 13. So far as the counter claims of the Appellants were concerned, the

 arbitrator dealt with the effect of Prysmian SA acquiring ACPL, which

 was a competing business of Ravin [through Prysmian’s acquisition of

 the Draka group, of which ACPL was a subsidiary]. The sole arbitrator

 first dealt with the reaction of Shri Karia on the Draka takeover

 together with Shri Karia’s evidence as follows: xxx xxx xxx 20 237. The Tribunal ultimately concluded that the
Respondent did not adduce any credible evidence of
actual serious adverse impact. 238. It is true that there was some evidence (albeit
mainly dating back to 2008-2009) of occasional
instances of both companies tendering for the same
business. Yet there was no reliable evidence that
business had been lost from Ravin to ACPL post the
Draka acquisition, or that there had been any diversion
of business from Ravin to ACPL or that there had been
any targeting of Ravin’s business by ACPL or indeed
vice versa. 239. In the end the two companies operate in a very
different space. ACPL is a small specialist cable
business with a turnover of € 7-7.5m per annum. This
is approximately 10% of that of Ravin. ACPL operates
principally in the area of instrumentation cables. Ravin
operates principally in the area of power and control
cables. Yet further, a large part of the small turnover
of ACPL constitutes exports from ACPL to its Omani
shareholder. This renders the notion of serious
adverse harm by reference to ACPL’s turnover even
more remote. 240. The contemporaneous management documents
at Ravin did not show that Ravin considered ACPL as
one of its competitors or indeed operating in the same
space. When Mr. Karia was asked about this in cross
examination, he said that when a company examines
its competitors it does not make a list down to the 50 th
or 60th competitor (Day 9, p.82). This gives an
eloquent indication of how far down the list Ravin
would have considered ACPL. 241. Equally, the fact that a list of company names
was identified and relied upon by the respondent to
show that Ravin and ACPL sell cables to some of the
same companies is stretching a point beyond where it
can naturally go. This does not yield an answer of
material breach. The evidence adduced by the
Respondents is not of a quality which would enable 21 the Tribunal to conclude that a breach had been
 committed with serious adverse effect. 242. The Tribunal further makes mention of the
 assistance it received from two distinguished experts
 of long standing participation in the market; Messrs
 Honavar and Hargopal. The Tribunal did get some
 benefit from this evidence in the clear explanation of
 different types of cables together with samples and
 this explanation was also helpfully provided in part by
 Mr. Karia himself. Nevertheless, once more this
 evidence somewhat missed the point. It is not enough
 to establish material breach to identify certain types of
 cables produced and sold by each company. There
 was no reliable analysis advanced by the
 Respondents’ evidence of serious adverse effect
 either on Ravin today or likely in the future. 243. Finally, the Tribunal for completeness makes it
 clear that it completely rejects the further allegation
 that ACPL had been acquired in bad faith by the
 Claimant with a view to destroying value in Ravin or
 that it has since pursued the operations of ACPL with
 that aim in view. 244. There is quite simply no credible evidence to
 support such an allegation and indeed the Tribunal is
 of the view that it is an allegation which should not
 have been advanced.” 14. So far as the counter claim dealing with direct sales in India which

 competed with the business of Ravin, and agency/distribution

 agreements, the arbitrator held as follows: 32. E(I)/23/184-186, 11 December 2012 hearing, pp.
 134-140, §46, E(I)/17/92, Day 2, pp. 83-86, §18 of,
 E(I)/24/189).This renders the whole argument of
 diversion of sales or breach of good faith by virtue of
 these direct sales somewhat academic. 278. Indeed these figures illustrate exactly why the
 Respondents placed so much emphasis on their
 argument that the mere fact of sales was a breach
 irrespective of anything else. This was once more
 how it was put by Mr. Salve SC in his oral closing
 argument (Day 10, pp. 183-185) the Tribunal has,
 however, found against the Respondents on this point. 279. The Tribunal concludes that the Respondents
 have not shown any material breach on the part of the
 Claimant in the development of Ravin’s business in
 accordance with clause 8 or any breach of the good
 faith obligations under Clause 20 with respect to direct
 sales.” 15. So far as the breach of confidentiality by Respondent No.1 was

 concerned, the counter claim of the Appellants was rejected thus: 285. The Respondents did not cross examine Ms
 Farise on this important evidence. It is accepted by the
 Tribunal. 286. The Respondents instead in their Closing
 Submissions do not address the question of evidence
 of actual breach but instead try to build up a case of 24 surmise or inference. The Respondents rely upon the
 fact that Prysmian referred to ACPL and Ravin as part
 of “Prysmian India”. They also rely upon the fact that
 they contend that the appointment of Ms Farise to
 ACPL was covertly carried out. The first point leads
 nowhere. It is not evidence of breach of the JVA. The
 second point is in any event rejected by the Tribunal.
 As has been referred to above in the context of the
 analysis of the Claimant’s allegations of material
 breach, the Tribunal finds that Ms. Farise did inform
 Mr. Karia of her appointment at ACPL. In the first
 instance Mr. Karia congratulated her and only objected
 later as the power struggle grew and this was used as
 a weapon in order to try to have Ms. Farise excluded
 from the Ravin Board.” 16. So far as multiple acts of alleged mismanagement by Respondent

 No.1 in breach of clauses 8 and 20 of the JVA were concerned, the

 learned sole arbitrator dealt with this as follows: The Respondents, however, were plainly in material
 breach by their reaction to this suspension effectively
 leading to a one day strike. 293. The question of the attendance of Claimant
 nominees at the Akruti office is another chapter of the
 saga in which the Respondents do not emerge without
 serious criticism. As is clear from this Award the
 Respondents engendered a toxic atmosphere at Akruti
 in January 2012 (even in its fire stricken state) and
 such was the situation at the ground that it was not
 really possible for Claimant nominees to attend without
 fear of their own safety. 294. Lastly, the circumstances surrounding the
 appointment of the CEO and CFO does not give rise
 to any conceivable material breach on the part of the
 Claimant. The claimant was entitled to nominate a
 CFO and the CEO. They did so. The Respondents did
 not oppose the appointment of Ms Farise. Nevertheless they did obstruct her at every turn once
 she was appointed because it became apparent that
 she intended pursuant to the JVA to take day to day
 control of Ravin and the Respondents did not wish this
 to happen. As regards Mr. Brunetti, the CFO, the
 Respondents did veto his appointment. This was not a
 material breach on their part as it was their right to do
 so under Schedule IX to the JVA. Nevertheless it
 cannot be said to be a material breach by the
 Claimant. That is unsustainable.” 17. Holding thus, the learned sole arbitrator concluded that none of the

 counter claims were made out, as a result of which they were all

 dismissed. 18. The Third Partial Final Award was delivered on 14.01.2015. Prior to

 this award, on 23.06.2014, the Karias, through their legal counsel,

 informed the tribunal that they would no longer be represented by M/s 26 Nishith Desai Associates. This was the prelude to Shri Vijay Karia

writing to the LCIA Court on 28.09.2014, a few days before the hearing

fixed before the arbitrator, seeking revocation of the appointment of

the arbitrator, on the ground of alleged lack of impartiality or

independence. At the hearing fixed on 1 st-2nd October 2014, Shri Vijay

Karia did not appear. On 10.10.2014, the LCIA Court communicated to

the tribunal that it had dismissed the challenge made to the arbitrator

on the ground that the said application was made out of time under the

provisions of the LCIA Rules. The award then went on to address

some of the written submissions dated 02.06.2014 of Shri Vijay Karia. The learned arbitrator explained how he was not ‘functus officio’ with

respect to the relief sought. He further went on to state that he could

not now review the Second Partial Final Award as he had no

jurisdiction to do so, and made it clear that he did not go beyond the

claims submitted by the claimant to him, or beyond the scope of the

JVA. The award also recorded the fact that the present Appellants did

not take the necessary steps to appoint a valuer, as a result of which

KPMG refused to go ahead with the valuation. As Deloitte was the only

other valuer, Deloitte was then requested to go ahead with the

valuation. The Third Partial Final Award then declared as follows: 19. By the Final Award dated 11.04.2017, the learned sole arbitrator dealt

 with why and how Deloitte was appointed as the valuer of the shares; why Ravin’s 49% stake in ‘Power Plus’ was excluded for purposes of

 valuation as clause 17.1 of the JVA and the formula stated in Schedule

 X would have to be strictly followed; and as to what then is the fair

 market value of the shares of the Appellants in Ravin that was to be

 bought out by the Respondent No. 1. 20. Ultimately, the final relief granted by the said award was as follows: 21 days after the date of this Final Award
 limited to noting and registering the
 transfer of 10,252,275 shares from the
 Respondents in favour of the Claimant; b) Table before that meeting the executed
 transfer forms; c) Vote in favour of the resolution / motion to
 register the transfer of the 10,252,275 29 shares in favour and in the name of the
 Claimant; and d) On registration of the transfer of the shares
 as aforesaid to resign from the Board of
 the Company as Chairman and Managing
 Director and as Executive Director of the
 Company respectively. 4) Each of the Respondents and particularly the
 Third and Twelfth Respondents, Mr. Karia and
 Mr. Piyush Karia, are restrained from acting
 themselves or through servants or agents, from: through this legislation - to ensure that a person who belongs to a

 Convention country, and who, in most cases, has gone through a

 challenge procedure to the said award in the country of its origin, must

 then be able to get such award recognised and enforced in India as

 soon as possible. This is so that such person may enjoy the fruits of an

 award which has been challenged and which challenge has been

 turned down in the country of its origin, subject to grounds to resist 32 enforcement being made out under Section 48 of the Arbitration Act. Bearing this in mind, it is important to remember that the Supreme

 Court’s jurisdiction under Article 136 should not be used to circumvent

 the legislative policy so contained. We are saying this because this

 matter has been argued for several days before us as if it was a first

 appeal from a judgment recognising and enforcing a foreign award. Given the restricted parameters of Article 136 , it is important to note

 that in cases like the present - where no appeal is granted against a

 judgment which recognises and enforces a foreign award - this Court

 should be very slow in interfering with such judgments, and should

 entertain an appeal only with a view to settle the law if some new or

 unique point is raised which has not been answered by the Supreme

 Court before, so that the Supreme Court judgment may then be used

 to guide the course of future litigation in this regard. Also, it would only

 be in a very exceptional case of a blatant disregard of Section 48 of

 the Arbitration Act that the Supreme Court would interfere with a

 judgment which recognises and enforces a foreign award however

 inelegantly drafted the judgment may be. With these prefatory remarks

 we may now go on to the submissions of counsel. 25. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Senior Advocate, led the charge so far as

 the Appellants are concerned. Ably assisted by Shri Nakul Dewan on

 the law, the learned Senior Advocates argued a large number of points 33 which they sought to put into three legal pigeonholes, namely, the

 pigeonhole contained in Section 48(1)(b) of the Arbitration Act, and

 that the foreign award would be contrary to the ‘public policy of India’

 [as under Section 48(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act] in two respects: (1)

 that it would be in contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian

 law; and (2) that in several respects it would violate the most basic

 notions of justice. 26. Dr. Singhvi’s arguments were as follows: 27. Shri Nakul Dewan cited a large number of judgments largely from

 Singapore, Hong Kong and the U.K. to buttress his submission that an

 award which fails to deal with or make any determination on the claim

 of a party ought to be set aside on the ground contained in Section

 48(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act, as it would be in breach of the audi

 alteram partem principle, and also on the ground that it would shock

 the conscience of the court, being contrary to a basic notion of justice

 in this country. He also argued that where an award is directly contrary

 to admitted facts, it would be perverse, and hence liable to be set side. Also, where a party is unable to present its case on account of the

 opposite party’s wilful failure to produce documents ordered, and the 37 tribunal’s failure to draw an adverse inference therefrom, on most

 material aspects of the case, would render such award unenforceable. 28. He also cited judgments on awards which treat parties unequally in

 that they adopt disparate thresholds for determining material breach,

 as a result of which an award read as a whole would be vulnerable on

 account of egregious bias. Also, a private communication of the

 outcome of the arbitration by the tribunal to one party to the exclusion

 of another would fatally undermine the independence and impartiality

 of the arbitration process, rendering the award vulnerable on the

 ground of bias. 29. Both Dr. Singhvi and Mr. Nakul Dewan, after setting out all the

 aforesaid grounds and case law supporting such grounds, have

 attacked the impugned High Court judgment, stating that a large

 number of these points were not answered by the High Court at all,

 and when answered would show that even where there was bias,

 perversity and breach of natural justice, all these grounds were merely

 brushed aside, and therefore no real determination of all the points

 argued before the High Court was at all undertaken by the learned

 Single Judge. As a ‘without prejudice’ argument, Dr. Singhvi exhorted

 us to modify the impugned award, in case he were to fail on all other

 arguments, to state that the valuation date of 30.09.2014 ought at

 least to be the date of the judgment delivered in this case, as

 otherwise the sale of the Karia block of shares in Ravin would be at a 38 tremendous undervalue. This he exhorted us to do under Article 142 of

 the Constitution of India. 30. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the

 Respondent No.1, read to us in copious detail each of the four awards

 delivered by the arbitral tribunal. He argued that each and every

 aspect of the matter that was argued on both sides was considered in

 detail in each of the said awards. He stressed the fact that though

 available, no challenge was ever made in the courts in England to the

 four awards. He defended the judgment of the learned Single Judge of

 the High Court and said that if the awards were read, it would be clear

 that the arbitrator adopted an extremely balanced approach, despite

 extreme provocation from Shri Vijay Karia, who only started alleging

 bias when he realized that the ‘Second Partial Final Award’ relating to

 who was in material breach, would be decided against him. Despite

 this, the learned arbitrator dispassionately considered every single

 claim and counter-claim made by the parties. This being the case,

 none of the grounds mentioned in Section 48 of the Arbitration Act

 would be available in the form of objections to such well-reasoned and

 balanced awards. In particular, Shri Sibal stressed that since the

 decision of this Court in Renusagar Power Plant Co. Ltd. v. General

 Electric Co. (1994) Supp (1) SCC 644, any interference on the merits

 of the decision of the arbitral tribunal would be outside the ken of 39 Section 48 of the Arbitration Act. Shri Sibal stressed the fact that Dr.

 Singhvi had argued this matter as if it was a first appeal on merits, and

 that each and every ground taken, if properly viewed, was really to

 invite this Court to interfere on the merits of the awards, which would

 be clearly outside the grounds contained in Section 48 of the

 Arbitration Act. 31. Shri Sibal stressed the fact that the central point of this case was as to

 who was in material breach of the provisions of the JVA. Once the

 learned arbitrator held that it was the Appellants and not the

 Respondent No.1 who materially breached the terms of the JVA, in

 that post the integration period, the appointed CEO, who was to be in- charge of the day to day affairs of Ravin, was never allowed to take

 over such charge, would make it clear that this most material breach

 committed by the Appellants on facts, as held by the learned arbitrator,

 could not be interfered with given the parameters of the Court’s

 jurisdiction under Section 48 of the Arbitration Act. Once this was so,

 everything else followed, as a result of which it was the Respondent

 No.1 who was to buy-out the Appellants’ 49% stake in Ravin at a price

 arrived at by a well-known independent valuer, Deloitte, at a date that

 was correctly fixed by the arbitral tribunal. This being the heart of the

 case, all the contentions of Dr. Singhvi raising objections to the four

 awards in question must fall, as every argument, though dressed up 40 as arguments falling within three grounds under Section 48 , are really

arguments addressing the merits of the case. Without prejudice to this

central argument, Shri Sibal took up every single point that was

argued and answered each point. So far as the Jaguar

Communication Consultancy Services Private Limited point was

concerned, Shri Sibal stated that at no point did the Appellant amend

its counter-claim to include such argument, which was in fact raised

orally as an afterthought at the fag end of the proceedings. Secondly,

as Shri Sibal’s case of ouster was accepted by the arbitral tribunal, the

claim of the Appellants that it was really the other way around was

specifically addressed by the learned arbitrator and dismissed, inter

alia on the ground that ouster was not at all pleaded by the Appellants. So far as the Ravin trademark is concerned, it is clear that the

Appellant’s own counsel made it clear that he would not be pressing

the point – the point being as to whether it was at all open to go into

registration of trademark of Ravin under separate license agreements

which had separate arbitration clauses for arbitration in Italy. This was

argued by both sides and dealt with by the arbitrator as a jurisdictional

issue which was turned down by the arbitrator stating that the

registration of the Ravin trademark was an issue which would be

outside the JVA and hence not arbitrable. So far as ACPL was

concerned, the learned arbitrator made it clear that Shri Vijay Karia 41 knew all along that ACPL would come to Respondent No.1 as a result

of the ‘Draka acquisition’ and never objected, but in fact congratulated

the Respondent No.1 on making such acquisition. That ACPL was in a

competing business was taken much later as an afterthought, Shri

Vijay Karia admitting in cross-examination that ACPL’s business was

so small that it could be disregarded altogether. Also, Shri Sibal

adverted to a Procedural Order made by the learned arbitrator, in

which it was stated that since ACPL was not a party to the arbitration,

the Appellants could approach the Court in England to get a direction

that ACPL produce the documents asked for by them. This was never

done. Further, Shri Sibal made it clear that ACPL was not a subsidiary

of Respondent No.1, but was an indirect subsidiary of Respondent

No.1’s parent company, consequent upon the ‘Draka acquisition’, with

a separate Board of Directors; and being a different person in law and

fact, who is not a party to the arbitral proceedings, the learned

arbitrator’s Procedural Order, which was never challenged and never

followed, was a complete answer to the contention that an adverse

inference ought to be drawn. So far as the interpretation of the JVA

was concerned, Shri Sibal made it clear that it was interpreted fairly,

given the fact that there was no challenge to any part of the First

Partial Final Award, except the interpretation given to Clause 21.1,

which was an interpretation given by the learned arbitrator keeping in 42 mind the commercial background and commercial efficacy doctrine. According to Shri Sibal, not only was it a possible interpretation, it was

also a correct interpretation. So far as the direct sales of Respondent

No.1 in India were concerned, the tribunal took into account all the

material evidence and dismissed, after a full hearing, the counter-claim

of the Appellants in this behalf. When it came to the Final Award, Shri

Sibal pointed out that on facts Deloitte was appointed by consent long

after the valuer that was chosen by lots finally stated its inability to

conduct the valuation due to the Appellants dragging their feet in this

behalf. Secondly, such valuation was conducted strictly as per the

formula contained in the JVA, which was Clause 17.1 read with

Schedule X of the JVA. He was at pains to point out that though Power

Plus Company LLC (hereinafter referred to as “Power Plus”) was

mentioned specifically in the JVA, yet nothing about Power Plus was

mentioned in the formula for valuation. Shri Sibal also refuted any so

called inconsistencies in the awards, stating that given the

interpretation of the JVA by the arbitrator in the First Partial Final

Award, all the awards that followed were in accord with the

interpretation so given. He also stated that the arbitrator considered

material breach with an even hand and arrived at the obvious

conclusion on facts that since the CEO was never allowed to function,

it was the Appellants and not the Respondent No.1 who had materially 43 breached the terms of the JVA. Shri Sibal then went into the bogey

raised re M/s Gilbert Tweed Associates. He maintained that the

Respondent No.1 had no idea as to who M/s Gilbert Tweed Associates

was and came to know that the agent, M/s Key2People, who was

employed by the Respondent No.1, had in turn employed M/s Gilbert

Tweed Associates, who published an advertisement to employ certain

persons. From this, to jump to and try to make out a ground that the

arbitrator was biased is a huge leap not warranted either in fact or law. Shri Sibal then argued that the award, in that it directed a sale of

shares at a 10% discount, did not in any manner contravene the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and Rules thereunder. He

took us through the relevant Rules and argued that unlike the Foreign

Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “FERA”),

FEMA did not contain Section 47 of FERA which voided agreements

that were made contrary to FERA. According to him, the FEMA regime

is a permissive regime and any violation of the Rules could be

monitored by the Reserve Bank of India by way of a direction of the

sale of the shares without the discount, if at all. In any case, the

Appellants would be estopped from taking this plea, having entered

into a solemn agreement with the Respondent No.1 which they cannot

go against. In any case, at worst, a violation of the Rules made under

FEMA, by which shares would be sold not at market price but at 44 something lower, contrary to the Rules, would also amount to a mere

 violation of law, which is far removed from a violation of any

 fundamental policy of Indian law, as foreign exchange is coming into

 the country and not going out therefrom. 32. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of

 the Respondent No. 1, also supported the submissions made by Shri

 Sibal. In particular, he dealt with the judgments cited by Shri Nakul

 Dewan and cited judgments of his own to show that the parameters

 contained in Section 48 of the Arbitration Act for resisting enforcement

 of foreign awards are extremely narrow, and the Court can in no

 circumstance go into the merits of a foreign award. He was at pains to

 point out that as a full hearing had been given and every opportunity

 extended by the learned arbitrator to both parties, no ground relatable

 to breach of natural justice or any prejudice as a result was made out

 on the facts. He then made it clear that public policy must be

 understood in the narrow sense as understood and exposited by Renusagar (supra) and the later decisions of this Court. There was

 also nothing in the awards that would shock the conscience of the

 Court to attract the most basic notions of justice exception contained in Section 48 . Enforcement of Foreign Awards under Section 48 45 33. Having heard learned counsel on both sides, it is important to first set

 out the relevant parts of Section 48 of the Arbitration Act. Section 48 reads as follows: Explanation 1.—For the avoidance of any doubt, it is
 clarified that an award is in conflict with the public
 policy of India, only if,— (i) the making of the award was induced or
 affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of
 section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental
 policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of
 morality or justice. Explanation 2.—For the avoidance of doubt, the test
 as to whether there is a contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a
 review on the merits of the dispute.” 46 34. One of the first judgments which construed pari materia provisions in

 the Foreign Awards Act, 1961 was the celebrated judgment in Renusagar (supra). This judgment was given pride of place in the

 recent judgment of Ssangyong Engineering & Construction Co. Ltd. v. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Civil Appeal No. 4779 of 2019, in which this court referred to Renusagar (supra) as

 follows: 35. Albert Jan van den Berg in his treatise The
New York Arbitration Convention of 1958 : 36. Similarly Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter
have said: 37. In our opinion, therefore, in proceedings for
enforcement of a foreign award under the
Foreign Awards Act, 1961, the scope of enquiry
before the court in which award is sought to be
enforced is limited to grounds mentioned in Section 7 of the Act and does not enable a
party to the said proceedings to impeach the
award on merits. xxx xxx xxx 65. This would imply that the defence of public
policy which is permissible under Section 7(1) (b)(ii) should be construed narrowly. In this
context, it would also be of relevance to
mention that under Article I(e) of the Geneva
Convention Act of 1927, it is permissible to
raise objection to the enforcement of arbitral
award on the ground that the recognition or
enforcement of the award is contrary to the
public policy or to the principles of the law of 49 the country in which it is sought to be relied
upon. To the same effect is the provision in Section 7(1) of the Protocol & Convention Act
of 1837 which requires that the enforcement of
the foreign award must not be contrary to the
public policy or the law of India. Since the
expression “public policy” covers the field not
covered by the words “and the law of India”
which follow the said expression, contravention
of law alone will not attract the bar of public
policy and something more than contravention
of law is required. 66. Article V(2)(b) of the New York Convention
of 1958 and Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign
Awards Act do not postulate refusal of
recognition and enforcement of a foreign award
on the ground that it is contrary to the law of the
country of enforcement and the ground of
challenge is confined to the recognition and
enforcement being contrary to the public policy
of the country in which the award is set to be
enforced. There is nothing to indicate that the
expression “public policy” in Article V(2) (b) of
the New York Convention and Section 7(1)(b) (ii) of the Foreign Awards Act is not used in the
same sense in which it was used in Article I(c)
of the Geneva Convention of 1927 and Section
7(1) of the Protocol and Convention Act of
1937. This would mean that “public policy” in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) has been used in a narrower
sense and in order to attract the bar of public
policy the enforcement of the award must
invoke something more than the violation of the
law of India. Since the Foreign Awards Act is
concerned with recognition and enforcement of
foreign awards which are governed by the
principles of private international law, the
expression “public policy” in Section 7(1)(b)(ii)
of the Foreign Awards Act must necessarily be
construed in the sense the doctrine of public
policy is applied in the field of private
international law. Applying the said criteria, it 50 must be held that the enforcement of a foreign
 award would be refused on the ground that it is
 contrary to public policy if such enforcement
 would be contrary to (i) fundamental policy of
 Indian law; or (ii) the interests of India; or (iii)
 justice or morality.”
 (emphasis supplied) 35. The judgment of Shri Lal Mahal Ltd. v. Progetto Grano SPA (2014) 2

 SCC 433 is important in that it made it clear that the Renusagar (supra) position would continue to apply to cases which arose under Section 48(2)(b) , the wider meaning given “to public policy of India” in

 the domestic sphere not being applicable. In doing so it overruled the

 judgment in Phulchand Exports Ltd. v. O.O.O Patriot (2011) 10 SCC

 300 as follows: Ltd. v. General Electric Co. , 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644]
 must apply for the purposes of Section 48(2)(b) of the
 1996 Act. Insofar as the proceeding for setting aside
 an award under Section 34 is concerned, the
 principles laid down in Saw Pipes [ONGC Ltd. v. Saw
 Pipes Ltd., (2003) 5 SCC 705] would govern the scope
 of such proceedings. 29. We accordingly hold that enforcement of foreign
 award would be refused under Section 48(2)(b) only if
 such enforcement would be contrary to (1)
 fundamental policy of Indian law; or (2) the interests of
 India; or (3) justice or morality. The wider meaning 51 given to the expression “public policy of India”
occurring in Section 34(2)(b)(ii) in Saw Pipes [ONGC
Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd., (2003) 5 SCC 705] is not
applicable where objection is raised to the
enforcement of the foreign award under Section 48(2) (b). 30. It is true that in Phulchand Exports [Phulchand
Exports Ltd. v. O.O.O. Patriot , (2011) 10 SCC 300 : xxx xxx xxx 45. Moreover, Section 48 of the 1996 Act does not give
an opportunity to have a “second look” at the foreign
award in the award enforcement stage. The scope of
inquiry under Section 48 does not permit review of the
foreign award on merits. Procedural defects (like
taking into consideration inadmissible evidence or
ignoring/rejecting the evidence which may be of
binding nature) in the course of foreign arbitration do
not lead necessarily to excuse an award from
enforcement on the ground of public policy. 46. In what we have discussed above, even if it be
assumed that the Board of Appeal erred in relying
upon the report obtained by the buyers from Crepin
which was inconsistent with the terms on which the
parties had contracted in the contract dated 12-5-1994
and wrongly rejected the report of the contractual 52 agency, in our view, such errors would not bar the
 enforceability of the appeal awards passed by the
 Board of Appeal.” 36. In LMJ International Ltd. v. Sleepwell Industries (2019) 5 SCC 302,

 an ex-parte award was passed in London which was sought to be

 executed by the Respondents in the High Court of Calcutta. The

 learned Single Judge of the High Court passed a common order in the

 execution cases rejecting objections taken regarding the

 maintainability of the applications. Against this, a review petition was

 rejected by the High Court and so were Special Leave Petitions before

 this Court. What was argued before this Court was that grounds as to

 maintainability had been taken, as a result of which grounds under Section 48 of the Arbitration Act were not actually argued as objections

 before the Single Judge. This plea of the appellant was rejected by this

 Court, given the object of Section 48 of the Act. Since the appellant

 “might and “ought” to have taken these grounds, before the learned

 Single Judge these grounds were barred by an application of doctrine

 of constructive res judicata as follows: 37. At this stage it is important to advert to amendments that were made

 by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (hereinafter

 referred to as the “2015 Amendment Act”). Section 48 was amended to 54 delete the ground of “contrary to the interest of India”. Also, what was

 important was to reiterate the Renusagar (supra) position, that the test

 as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of

 Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute (vide

 Explanation 2 to Section 48(2) ). 38. It will be noticed that in the context of challenge to domestic awards, Section 34 of the Arbitration Act differentiates between international

 commercial arbitrations held in India and other arbitrations held in

 India. So far as “the public policy of India” ground is concerned, both Sections 34 and 48 are now identical, so that in an international

 commercial arbitration conducted in India, the ground of challenge

 relating to “public policy of India” would be the same as the ground of

 resisting enforcement of a foreign award in India. Why it is important

 to advert to this feature of the 2015 Amendment Act is that all grounds

 relating to patent illegality appearing on the face of the award are

 outside the scope of interference with international commercial

 arbitration awards made in India and foreign awards whose

 enforcement is resisted in India. In this respect, it is important to

 advert to paragraphs 30 and 43 of Ssangyong (supra) as follows: 39. Indeed, this approach has commended itself in other jurisdictions as

 well. Thus, in Sui Southern Gas Co. Ltd. v. Habibullah Coastal

 Power Co. (2010) SGHC 62, the Singapore High Court, after setting

 out the legislative policy of the Model Law that the ‘public policy’

 exception is to be narrowly viewed and that an arbitral award that

 shocks the conscience alone would be set aside, went on to hold: 40. The USA was a late signatory to the New York Convention, acceding

 to the Convention only in 1970. However, in an early judgment of the

 U.S Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, namely Parsons & Whittemore

 Overseas Co. v. Societe Generale De L’Industrie Du Papier 508

 F.2d 969 (1974), the Court in a succinct paragraph pointed out the

 change made by the New York Convention when compared with the

 older Geneva Convention of 1927 as follows: We conclude, therefore, that the Convention’s public
 policy defense should be construed narrowly.
 Enforcement of foreign arbitral awards may be denied
 on this basis only where enforcement would violate the
 forum state’s most basic notions of morality and
 justice. xxx xxx xxx

 Although the Convention recognizes that an award
 may not be enforced where predicated on a subject
 matter outside the arbitrator’s jurisdiction, it does not
 sanction second-guessing the arbitrator’s construction
 of the parties’ agreement. The appellant’s attempt to
 invoke this defense, however, calls upon the court to
 ignore this limitation on its decision-making powers
 and usurp the arbitrator’s role. The district court took a
 proper view of its own jurisdiction in refusing to grant
 relief on this ground.”
 (emphasis supplied) 41. This judgment was followed in Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee

 v. Hammermills Inc. (1992) WL 122712 where the US District Court,

 District of Colombia followed Parsons (supra) as follows: enforcement bias,” Parsons & Whittemore Overseas
 Co., 508 F.2d at 973, under which the burden of proof
 rests on the party challenging the arbitration award,
 Dworkin Cosell Interair Courier Servs., Inc. v.
 Avraham, 728 F.Supp. 156, 158 (S.D.N.Y.1989);
 Overseas Private Invest. Corp. v. Anaconda Co., 418
 F.Supp. 107, 110 (D.D.C.1976), and the grounds for
 refusing to recognize arbitral awards are narrowly
 construed, Parsons & Whittemore Overseas Co., 508
 F.2d at 976–77. xxx xxx xxx

 The few courts to address this provision of the
 Convention have concluded that the provision
 “essentially sanctions the application of the forum
 state's standards of due process.” See Parsons &
 Whittemore Overseas Co., 508 F.2d at 975; Geotech
 Lizenz AG v. Evergreen Systems, Inc., 697 F.Supp.
 1248, 1263 (E.D.N.Y.1988) (citing Parsons &
 Whittemore Overseas Co.). Due process requires
 notice “reasonably calculated, under all the
 circumstances, to apprise interested persons of the
 pendency of the action and afford them an opportunity
 to present their objections.” Mullane v. Central
 Hanover Bank & Trust Co., 339 U.S. 306, 314 (1950).” 42. In Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s London v. BCS Ins. Co. 239

 F.Supp.2d 812 (2003), the US District Court, N.D Illinois referred to the

 Federal Arbitration Act and went on to hold that the review of a panel

 decision is “grudgingly narrow”. (See paragraphs 2 and 3). 43. In Karaha Bodas Co., L.L.C v. Perusahaan Pertambagan Minyak

 364 F.3d 274 (2004), the United States Court of Appeals for the 5 th

 Circuit analysed the New York Convention thus: Article V enumerates specific grounds on which a
 court with secondary jurisdiction may refuse
 enforcement. In contrast to the limited authority of
 secondary-jurisdiction courts to review an arbitral
 award, courts of primary jurisdiction, usually the courts
 of the country of the arbitral situs, have much broader
 discretion to set aside an award. While courts of a
 primary jurisdiction country may apply their own
 domestic law in evaluating a request to annul or set
 aside an arbitral award, courts in countries of
 secondary jurisdiction may refuse enforcement only on
 the grounds specified in Article V.
 The New York Convention and the implementing
 legislation, Chapter 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act
 (“FAA”), provide that a secondary jurisdiction court 61 must enforce an arbitration award unless it finds one of
 the grounds for refusal or deferral of recognition or
 enforcement specified in the Convention. The Court
 may not refuse to enforce an arbitral award solely on
 the ground that the arbitrator may have made a
 mistake of law or fact. “Absent extraordinary
 circumstances, a confirming court is not to reconsider
 an arbitrator’s findings.” The party defending against
 enforcement of the arbitral award bears the burden of
 proof. Defences to enforcement under the New York
 Convention are construed narrowly “to encourage the
 recognition and enforcement of commercial arbitration
 agreements in international contracts…””
 (emphasis supplied) 44. Likewise, in Admart AG v. Stephen and Mary Birch Foundation

 Inc. 457 F.3d 302 (2006), the U.S Court of Appeals, 3 rd Circuit, after

 setting out Article V of the New York Convention, held as follows: xxx xxx xxx 62 In the same vein, in Parsons & Whittemore Overseas
 Co., Inc. v. Societe Generale de L'Industrie du Papier
 (RAKTA), 508 F.2d 969 (2d Cir.1974), the Court of
 Appeals reviewed the grounds for refusal contained in
 the Convention and said that the public policy defense
 is available “only where enforcement would violate the
 forum state's most basic notions of morality and
 justice.” Id. at 974. Similarly, the court noted that an
 award cannot be enforced under the Convention
 where it is “predicated on a subject matter outside the
 arbitrator's jurisdiction,” but the Convention does not
 “sanction second-guessing the arbitrator's construction
 of the parties' agreement.” Id. at 977.” 45. The U.S cases show that given the “pro-enforcement bias” of the New

 York Convention, which has been adopted in Section 48 of the

 Arbitration Act, 1996 - the burden of proof on parties seeking

 enforcement has now been placed on parties objecting to enforcement

 and not the other way around; in the guise of public policy of the

 country involved, foreign awards cannot be set aside by second

 guessing the arbitrator’s interpretation of the agreement of the parties; the challenge procedure in the primary jurisdiction gives more leeway

 to Courts to interfere with an award than the narrow restrictive grounds

 contained in the New York Convention when a foreign award’s

 enforcement is resisted. Discretion of the Court to Enforce Foreign Awards 46. Thus far, it is clear that enforcement of a foreign award may under Section 48 of the Arbitration Act be refused only if the party resisting 63 enforcement furnishes to the Court proof that any of the stated

 grounds has been made out to resist enforcement. The said grounds

 are watertight – no ground outside Section 48 can be looked at. Also,

 the expression used in Section 48 is “may”. Shri Viswanathan has

 argued that “may” would vest a discretion in a Court enforcing a

 foreign award to enforce such award despite the fact that one or more

 grounds may have been made out to resist enforcement. For this

 purpose, he relied upon Sections 45 to 47 , which contain the word

 “shall” in contradistinction to the word “may”. He also relied upon

 Article V of the New York Convention which also uses the word “may”. 47. Gary Born in International Commercial Arbitration, Vol. II (2009) puts it

 thus: 48. Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration, 6th Edn. (2015) states: 49. Likewise, Albert Jan van den Berg’s The New York Arbitration

 Convention of 1958 (1981) states: 50. Russel on Arbitration, Sweet & Maxwell (24th Edn., 2015) states: 51. An interesting judgment of the U.K. Supreme Court is reported as

 Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Co. v. The Ministry of

 Religious Affairs, Government of Pakistan (2010) UKSC 46. In this

 judgment - given the resistance to a foreign award in the U.K - the

 discretion of a Court to enforce such award, even if grounds to resist

 the award have been made out, was set out thus: Absent some fresh circumstance such as another
agreement or an estoppel, it would be a remarkable
state of affairs if the word “may” enabled a court to
enforce or recognise an award which it found to have
been made without jurisdiction, under whatever law it
held ought to be recognised and applied to determine
that issue. 69. The factors relied upon by Dallah in support of its
suggestion that a discretion should be exercised to
enforce the present award amount for the most part to
repetition of Dallah’s arguments for saying that there
was an arbitration agreement binding on the
Government, or that an English court should do no
more than consider whether there was a plausible or
reasonably supportable basis for its case or for the
tribunal’s conclusion that it had jurisdiction. But Dallah
has lost on such points, and it is impossible to re-
deploy them here. The application of s.103(2) and
Article V(1) must be approached on the basis that
there was no arbitration agreement binding on the
Government and that the tribunal acted without
jurisdiction. General complaints that the Government
did not behave well, unrelated to any known legal
principle, are equally unavailing in a context where the
Government has proved that it was not party to any
arbitration agreement. There is here no scope for
reliance upon any discretion to refuse enforcement 69 which the word “may” may perhaps in some other
contexts provide. xxx xxx xxx
Per Lord Collins: recognition or enforcement of foreign awards. But the
combination of (a) the use of public policy to refuse to
recognise the application of the foreign law and (b) the
discretion to recognise or enforce an award even if the
arbitration agreement is invalid under the applicable
law could be used to avoid the application of a foreign
law which is contrary to the court’s sense of justice.
xxx xxx xxx 130. In the United States the courts have refused to
enforce awards which have been set aside in the State
in which the award was made, on the basis that the
award does not exist to be enforced if it has been
lawfully set aside by a competent authority in that
State: Baker Marine (Nigeria) Ltd v Chevron (Nigeria)
Ltd, 191 F 3d 194 (2d Cir 1999); TermoRio SA ESP v
Electranta SP, 487 F 3d 928 (DC Cir 2007). But an
Egyptian award which had been set aside by the
Egyptian court was enforced because the parties had
agreed that the award would not be the subject of
recourse to the local courts: Chromalloy Aeroservices
v Arab Republic of Egypt, 939 F Supp 907 (DDC
1996). That decision was based both on the discretion 71 in the New York Convention, article V(1) and on the
 power under article VII(1) (see Karaha Bodas Co v
 Perusahaan Pertambangan Minyak Dan Gas Bumi
 Negara, 335 F 3d 357, 367 (5th Cir 2003)) and
 whether it was correctly decided was left open in
 TermoRio SA ESP v Electranta SP, ante, at p 937. 131. The power to enforce notwithstanding that the
 award has been set aside in the country of origin does
 not, of course, arise in this case. The only basis which
 Dallah puts forward for the exercise of discretion in its
 favour is the Government’s failure to resort to the
 French court to set aside the award. But Moore-Bick
 LJ was plainly right in the present case (at para 61) to
 say that the failure by the resisting party to take steps
 to challenge the jurisdiction of the tribunal in the courts
 of the seat would rarely, if ever, be a ground for
 exercising the discretion in enforcing an award made
 without jurisdiction. There is certainly no basis for
 exercising the discretion in this case.” 52. A learned single judge of the Delhi High Court in Cruz City 1

 Mauritius Holdings v. Unitech Limited (2017) 239 DLT 649,

 adverted to this issue and held: however, if there are good reasons founded on settled
principles of law, the court is not precluded from
declining the same. The word “may” in Section 48(1) and (2) of the Act must be interpreted as used in a
sense so as not to fetter the courts to refuse
enforcement of a foreign award even if the grounds as
set out in Section 48 are established, provided there is
sufficient reason to do so. Viewed from this
perspective, the considerations that this court may
bear while examining grounds as set out under Section 48(1) (enacted to give effect to Article V(1) of
the New York convention) may be materially different
from the consideration that this court may bear while
examining the issue of declining enforcement of a
foreign award on the ground of public policy ( Section
48(2) of the Act). Whereas the grounds as set out
under Section 48(1) essentially concern the structural
integrity of the arbitral process and inter party rights
therefore considerations such as the conduct of
parties, balancing of the inter se rights etc are of
material significance but such considerations may not
be of any significant relevance in considering whether
enforcing the award contravenes the public policy of
India. 31. It is necessary to bear in mind that Section 48 of
the Act is a statutory expression of Article V of the New
York Convention and is similarly worded. The object of
Article V of the New York Convention is to enable the
signatory States to retain the discretion to refuse
enforcement of a foreign award on specified grounds
and none other; it does not compel the member States 73 to decline enforcement of foreign awards. Article V of
the convention thus sets out the maximum leeway
available to member States to refuse enforcement of a
foreign award. This view has also been accepted by
courts in the United States. In Chromalloy
Aeroservices. v. The Arab Republic of Egypt: 939 F.
Supp. 907 (DDC 1996), an Egyptian award, which was
set aside by an Egyptian court, was enforced
notwithstanding Article V(1)(e) of the New York
Convention. 32. The principle that courts may enforce a foreign
award notwithstanding that one or more of the
specified grounds have been established, is also
accepted in the United Kingdom. (See: China
Agribusiness Development Corporation v. Balli
Trading: [1998] 2 Lloyd's Rep 76). xxx xxx xxx 37. The grounds as set out in Section 48 of the Act for
refusing enforcement of the award encompass a wide
spectrum of acts and factors as they are set in broad
terms. While in some cases, it may be imperative to
refuse the enforcement of the award while in some
other, it may be manifestly unjust to do so. Section 48 is enacted to give effect to Article V of the New York
Convention, which enables member States to retain
some sovereign control over enforcement of foreign
awards in their territory. The ground that enforcement
of an award opposed to the national public policy
would be declined perhaps provides the strongest
expression of a Sovereign's reservation that its
executive power shall not be used to enforce a foreign
award which is in conflict with its policy. The other
grounds mainly relate to the structural integrity of the
arbitral process with focus on inter party rights. 38. In terms of Sub-section (1) of Section 48 of the Act,
the Court can refuse enforcement of a foreign award
only if the party resisting the enforcement furnishes
proof to establish the grounds as set out in Section
48(1) of the Act. However, the court may refuse
enforcement of a foreign award notwithstanding that a
party resisting the enforcement has not provided 74 any/sufficient proof of contravention of public policy. In
 such cases, the Court is not precluded from examining
 the question of public policy suo motu and would
 refuse to enforce the foreign award that is found to
 offend the public policy of India. The approach of the
 court while examining whether to refuse enforcement
 of a foreign award would also depend on the nature of
 the defence established. 39. Even where public policy considerations are to be
 weighed, it is not difficult to visualise a situation where
 both permitting as well as declining enforcement would
 fall foul of the public policy. Thus, even in cases where
 it is found that the enforcement of the award may not
 conform to public policy, the courts may evaluate and
 strike a balance whether it would be more offensive to
 public policy to refuse enforcement of the foreign
 award - considering that the parties ought to be held
 bound by the decision of the forum chosen by them
 and there is finality to the litigation - or to enforce the
 same; whether declining to enforce a foreign award
 would be more debilitating to the cause of justice, than
 to enforce it. In such cases, the court would be
 compelled to evaluate the nature, extent and other
 nuances of the public policy involved and adopt a
 course which is less pernicious. xxx xxx xxx 43. Thus, whilst there is no absolute or open discretion
 to reject the request for declining to enforce a foreign
 award, it cannot be accepted that it is totally absent.
 The width of the discretion is narrow and limited, but if
 sufficient grounds are established, the court is not
 precluded from rejecting the request for declining
 enforcement of a foreign award.” 53. When the grounds for resisting enforcement of a foreign award under Section 48 are seen, they may be classified into three groups –

 grounds which affect the jurisdiction of the arbitration proceedings; grounds which affect party interest alone; and grounds which go to the

 public policy of India, as explained by Explanation 1 to Section 48(2) . Where a ground to resist enforcement is made out, by which the very

 jurisdiction of the tribunal is questioned - such as the arbitration

 agreement itself not being valid under the law to which the parties

 have subjected it, or where the subject matter of difference is not

 capable of settlement by arbitration under the law of India, it is obvious

 that there can be no discretion in these matters. Enforcement of a

 foreign award made without jurisdiction cannot possibly be weighed in

 the scales for a discretion to be exercised to enforce such award if the

 scales are tilted in its favour. 54. On the other hand, where the grounds taken to resist enforcement can

 be said to be linked to party interest alone, for example, that a party

 has been unable to present its case before the arbitrator, and which

 ground is capable of waiver or abandonment, or, the ground being

 made out, no prejudice has been caused to the party on such ground

 being made out, a Court may well enforce a foreign award, even if

 such ground is made out. When it comes to the “public policy of India”

 ground, again, there would be no discretion in enforcing an award

 which is induced by fraud or corruption, or which violates the

 fundamental policy of Indian law, or is in conflict with the most basic 76 notions of morality or justice. It can thus be seen that the expression

 “may” in Section 48 can, depending upon the context, mean “shall” or

 as connoting that a residual discretion remains in the Court to enforce

 a foreign award, despite grounds for its resistance having been made

 out. What is clear is that the width of this discretion is limited to the

 circumstances pointed out hereinabove, in which case a balancing act

 may be performed by the Court enforcing a foreign award. The Natural Justice Ground under Section 48 55. Shri Sibal has argued that the expression “or was otherwise unable to

 present his case” occurring in Section 48(1)(b) of the Act must be read

 along with the words preceding it noscitur a sociis, and, given the fact

 that the grounds for resistance of enforcement have to be construed

 narrowly in the case of ambiguity, this expression cannot possibly go

 beyond the hearing before the arbitrator and to the award rendered by

 the arbitrator. Shri Nakul Dewan, on the other hand, argued that the

 expression “unable to present his case” was co-terminus with breach

 of natural justice which went to not only the hearing before the

 arbitrator, but also to the award, in that, if the arbitrator were not to

 give a finding on a material issue or were not to decide a claim or

 counter-claim, this would breach the broader requirements of the audi

 alteram partem rule of natural justice and would, therefore, be covered

 by Section 48(1)(b) of the Act. 56. This Court in Ssangyong (supra) has dealt with this aspect of Section

 48 as follows: In order to ensure that the parties can exercise their
 right to comment effectively, the arbitral tribunal must
 grant them access to the evidence and arguments 78 submitted by the other side. Affording a party the
opportunity to make submissions or to give its view
without also informing it of the opposing side’s claims
and arguments typically constitutes a violation of due
process, unless specific non-disclosure rules apply
(e.g., such disclosure would constitute a violation of
trade secrets or applicable legal privileges). In practice, national courts have afforded arbitral
tribunals considerable leeway in setting and adjusting
the procedures by which parties respond to one
another’s submissions and evidence, reasoning that
there were “several ways of conducting arbitral
proceedings.” Accordingly, absent any specific
agreement by the parties, the arbitral tribunal has wide
discretion in arranging the parties’ right to comment,
permitting or excluding the introduction of new claims,
and determining which party may have the final word. b) Right to Comment on Evidence Known to or
Determined by the Tribunal

The parties’ right to comment also extends to facts that
have not been introduced in the proceedings by the
parties, but that the tribunal has raised sua sponte,
provided it was entitled to do so. For instance, if the
tribunal gained “out of court knowledge” of
circumstances (e.g., through its own investigations), it
may only rest its decision on those circumstances if it
informed both parties in advance and afforded them
the opportunity to comment thereon. The same rule
applies to cases where an arbitrator intends to base
the award on his or her own expert knowledge,
unless the arbitrator was appointed for his or her
special expertise or knowledge (e.g., in quality
arbitration). Similarly, a tribunal must give the parties
an opportunity to comment on facts of common
knowledge if it intends to base its decision on those
facts, unless the parties should have known that those 79 facts could be decisive for the final award.”(emphasis
in original)

In Fouchard, Gaillard, Goldman on International
Commercial Arbitration (Kluwer Law International,
1999) [“Fouchard”] it is stated: Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited 2017 SCC OnLine Del 8932 puts it

 thus: The tribunal examined the other evidence before it,
 considered the submissions of the parties and
 rightfully exercised its fact finding and decision making
 powers not to draw the adverse inference as it was
 entitled to do so. It would appear to me that the
 tribunal was doing nothing more than exercising its
 normal fact finding powers to determine whether or not
 an adverse inference ought to be drawn.” 62. Other English judgments deal with the expression “unable to present

 his case” as a breach of a facet of natural justice at the hearing stage

 only. Thus, in Gbangbola v. Smith and Sheriff 1998 3 All ER 730, the

 Court held: 63. Another facet of “unable to present his case” was stated in Van Der

 Giessen-De-Noord Shipbuilding Division B.V. v. Imtech Marine &

 Offshore B.V. (2008) EWHC 2904 (Comm). The UK Court held: 64. In Malicorp Limited v. Government of Arab Republic of Egypt

 (2015) EWHC 361 (Comm), the U.K Court held that the Government of

 Egypt had no warning of the manner in which the award was made. The Court held: 65. The judgments from the Singapore Courts are also instructive. In Soh

 Beng Tee & Co. v. Fairmount Development Pte Ltd. (2007) SGCA

 28, the Court fleshed out what was meant by “fair hearing” for the

 purposes of Section 48(1)(a)(vii) of the Arbitration Act, 2002

 (Singapore) as follows: To elaborate, minimal curial intervention is
underpinned by two principal considerations. First,
there is a need to recognise the autonomy of the
arbitral process by encouraging finality, so that its
advantage as an efficient alternative dispute resolution
process is not undermined. Second, having opted for
arbitration, parties must be taken to have
acknowledged and accepted the attendant risks of
having only a very limited right of recourse to the
courts. It would be neither appropriate nor consonant
for a dissatisfied party to seek the assistance of the
court to intervene on the basis that the court is
discharging an appellate function, save in the very
limited circumstances that have been statutorily
condoned. Generally speaking, a court will not
intervene merely because it might have resolved the
various controversies in play differently. (d) The delicate balance between ensuring the
integrity of the arbitral process and ensuring that the
rules of natural justice are complied with in the arbitral
process is preserved by strictly adhering to only the
narrow scope and basis for challenging an arbitral
award that has been expressly acknowledged under
the Act and the IAA. In so far as the right to be heard is
concerned, the failure of an arbitrator to refer every
point for decision to the parties for submissions is not
invariably a valid ground for challenge. Only in
instances such as where the impugned decision
reveals a dramatic departure from the submissions, or
involves an arbitrator receiving extraneous evidence,
or adopts a view wholly at odds with the established
evidence adduced by the parties, or arrives at a
conclusion unequivocally rejected by the parties as
being trivial or irrelevant, might it be appropriate for a
court to intervene. In short, there must be a real basis
for alleging that the arbitrator has conducted the
arbitral process either irrationally or capriciously. To
echo the language employed in Rotoaira ([55] supra),
the overriding burden on the applicant is to show that a
reasonable litigant in his shoes could not have
foreseen the possibility of reasoning of the type
revealed in the award. It is only in these very limited
circumstances that the arbitrator’s decision might be
considered unfair. (e) It is almost invariably the case that parties propose
diametrically opposite solutions to resolve a dispute.
They may expect the arbitrator to select one of these
alternative positions. The arbitrator, however, is not
bound to adopt an either/or approach. He is perfectly
entitled to embrace a middle path (even without
apprising the parties of his provisional thinking or
analysis) so long as it is based on evidence that is
before him. Similarly, an arbitrator is entitled – indeed,
it is his obligation – to come to his own conclusions or
inferences from the primary facts placed before him. In
this context, he is not expected to inexorably accept
the conclusions being urged upon him by the parties.
Neither is he expected to consult the parties on his
thinking process before finalising his award unless it 91 involves a dramatic departure from what has been
 presented to him. (f) Each case should be decided within its own factual
 matrix. It must always be borne in mind that it is not
 the function of the court to assiduously comb an
 arbitral award microscopically in attempting to
 determine if there was any blame or fault in the arbitral
 process; rather, an award should be read generously
 such that only meaningful breaches of the rules of
 natural justice that have actually caused prejudice are
 ultimately remedied.”
 (emphasis supplied) 66. In JVL Agro Industries Ltd v. Agritrade International Pte Ltd. (2016) SGHC 126, the Court held that the natural justice provision

 contained in Section 24(b) of the International Arbitration Act

 (Singapore) was breached when new points are taken up by the

 arbitrator, i.e. points not argued by either party, which formed the basis

 of the award. Since these new points were not put to the parties,

 natural justice was said to be breached in the facts of that case. Likewise, in G.D. Midea Air Conditioning Equipment Co. v. Tornado

 Consumer Goods Ltd. (2017) SGHC 193, the Court found: This judgment was delivered keeping in mind Section 68 of the

 Arbitration Act, 1996 (U.K), which states as follows: A party may lose the right to object (see section 73)
 and the right to apply is subject to the restrictions in
 section 70(2) and (3). (2) Serious irregularity means an irregularity of one or
 more of the following kinds which the court considers
 has caused or will cause substantial injustice to the
 applicant—
 xxx xxx xxx (d)failure by the tribunal to deal with all the issues that
 were put to it;”

 It was in this context that the Court held: Based on what was set out in the Reasons for the
Award and the materials before the Tribunal, it cannot
be said that it is plain and obvious, or beyond any
doubt, that the Award would have been the same, if
the Limitation Defence had been considered
(Brunswick Bowling & Billiards Corp v Shanghai
Zhonglu Industrial Co Ltd [2011] 1 HKLRD 707; Paklito
Investment Ltd v Kolckner East Asia Ltd [1993] 2 97 HKLR 49). This is not a case in which different
 defences are raised, any one of which would have
 defeated the claims made, such that the failure to deal
 with any one of the other defences would not have
 made any difference to the award. 35. For the above reasons, I consider that there is
 sufficient injustice arising out of the Award, in its
 current form, which cannot be overlooked by the
 Court’s conscience, and that enforcement of the Award
 would offend our notions of justice.”

This finding was given under Article 34(2)(b) of the UNCITRAL Model

Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985 which states as

follows: Costs and delays are relevant factors to consider
when determining the extent to which reasons and
explanations are to be set out in detail: at [29]–[30]. (b) In “very clear cases” with specific and
straightforward factual or legal issues, the court may
even dispense with reasons. Its conclusion will be 101 sufficient because the reasons behind the conclusion
 are a matter of necessary inference: at [32]. (c) Decisions or findings which do not bear directly on
 the substance of the dispute or affect the final
 resolution of the parties’ rights may not require
 detailed reasoning. As a rule of thumb, the more
 profound the consequences of a specific decision, the
 greater the necessity for detailed reasoning: at [33]. (d) There should be a summary of all the key relevant
 evidence but not all the detailed evidence needs to be
 referred to: at [34]. (e) The parties’ opposing stance and the judge’s
 findings of fact on the material issues should be set
 out. However, the judge does not have to make an
 explicit ruling on each and every factual issue: at [35]–
 [36]. (f) The decision should demonstrate an examination of
 the relevant evidence and the facts found with a view
 to explaining the final outcome on each material issue: xxx xxx xxx 59. With respect, poor reasoning on the part of an
arbitral tribunal is not a ground to set aside an arbitral
award; even a misunderstanding of the arguments put
forward by a party is not such a ground. As noted by
this court in BLC at [86], the court “is not required to
carry out a hypercritical or excessively syntactical
analysis of what the arbitrator has written” when
considering whether an arbitral award should be set
aside for breach of natural justice. Neither should it
approach an arbitral award with a “meticulous legal
eye endeavouring to pick holes, inconsistencies and
faults … with the objective of upsetting or frustrating
the process of arbitration” (likewise at [86] of BLC).
Taking these considerations into account, we find no
breach of natural justice as there is no basis for
concluding that the Tribunal did not consider the
Liquidator’s Primary Argument. Accordingly, we
answer Appeal Issue 1 affirmatively.”

 (emphasis supplied) 104 74. In BAZ v. BBA & Ors. (2018) SGHC 275, again with reference to

 Section 24(b) of the International Arbitration Act (Singapore), the Court

 approached the issue of natural justice as follows: 134. The failure to consider an important issue that
 has been pleaded in an arbitration is a breach of
 natural justice because in such a case, the arbitrator
 would not have brought his mind to bear on an
 important aspect of the dispute before him (AKN v
 ALC 2015 at [46]). It will usually be a matter of
 inference rather than of explicit indication that the
 arbitrator wholly missed one or more important
 pleaded issues. However, this inference must be
 shown to be “clear and virtually inescapable” (AKN v
 ALC 2015 at [46]). The Court of Appeal cautioned
 against arguments dressed up to appear as breaches
 of natural justice: if the facts are also consistent with
 the arbitrator simply having misunderstood the
 aggrieved party’s case, or having been mistaken as to
 the law, or having chosen not to deal with a point
 pleaded by the aggrieved party because he thought it
 unnecessary, then the inference that the arbitrator did
 not apply his mind at all to the dispute before him or to
 an important aspect of that dispute and so acted in
 breach of natural justice should not be drawn.
 xxx xxx xxx 141. Although the Majority did not comment on the
 legal basis for the application of a discount rate, it
 does not mean that it did not consider the issue. A
 tribunal does not have to give responses on all 105 submissions made (SEF Construction Pte Ltd v Skoy
 Connected Pte Ltd [2010] 1 SLR 733 at [60]). xxx xxx xxx 159. The legal area concerning the enforcement and
 setting aside of awards is governed by statute, namely
 the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed) and the IAA.
 As such, the conceptual framework outlined in UKM
 can be helpful to navigate public policy considerations
 in arbitration, even though the subject matter of the
 public policies that can be raised under Art 34(2)(b)(ii)
 of the Model Law and Art V(2)(b) of the New York
 Convention may include both socio-economic policies
 and legal policies. When a challenge on the ground of
 public policy is brought, the outline draws attention to
 the importance of conducting a forensic exercise to
 identify whether the alleged public policy exists, and
 the criteria influencing the identification as explained in
 UKM are applicable. The balancing exercise in the
 context of arbitration is between the policy of enforcing
 arbitral awards – as encapsulated in s 19B(1) of the
 IAA which states that awards are “final and binding on
 the parties” and the judicial policy of minimal curial
 intervention – and the alleged public policy which the
 award purportedly violates. This balance is generally in
 favour of the policy of enforcing arbitral awards, and
 only tilts in favour of the countervailing public policy
 where the violation of that policy would “shock the
 conscience” or would be contrary to “the forum’s most
 basic notion of morality and justice”. In determining
 whether the balance tilts towards the countervailing
 public policy, it is important to consider both the
 subject nature of the public policy, the degree of
 violation of that public policy and the consequences of
 the violation.” 75. In Campos Brothers Farms v. Matru Bhumi Supply Chain Pvt. Ltd . (2019) 261 DLT 201, the Delhi High Court had to consider the

 enforcement of a foreign award. The arbitrator in the aforesaid case 106 did not give any finding on maintainability of the arbitration

proceedings, which was argued before her. In this fact circumstance,

the Delhi High Court held: Once it is found that the Arbitrator has ignored the
 submissions of a party in totality, whatever be the merit
 of the submissions, in my opinion, such Award cannot
 be enforced being in violation of the Principles of
 Natural Justice and contrary to the public policy of
 India as stated in sub- Section 2(b) read with
 Explanation 1(iii) of Section 48 of the Act. xxx xxx xxx 76. It may be correct that the Arbitrator, upon
 considering evidence led before it by the parties,
 comes to a conclusion that in the given facts the
 transaction, though under different Contracts, is one or
 that the corporate veil deserves to be lifted, however,
 for arriving at such a finding the Arbitrator has to give
 reasons for the same. This Court, in exercise of its
 power under Section 48 and 49 of the Act, cannot 107 supplant such reasons by considering the claims and
 defence of the parties on merit. Whether the request of
 the respondent no. 1 to the petitioner to make
 shipments in the name of respondent no. 2 under
 Contracts that had been executed between the
 petitioner and respondent no. 1, would entitle the
 petitioner to file a consolidated statement of claim
 against respondent nos. 1 and 2 or not, was an issue
 to be determined by the Arbitrator and reasons for
 such determination were to be given in the Award.
 From a reading of the Award it seems that the
 Arbitrator was neither alive to the issue whether such
 claims against different Contracts can be consolidated
 as one, nor was she alive to the fact that joint and
 several liability cannot be fastened on respondent nos.
 1 and 2 without lifting the corporate veil and giving
 reasons for the same. The Award in question clearly
 qualifies as a non speaking Award. xxx xxx xxx 81. In any case, as noted above, if the arbitrator had
 considered this issue giving reasons therefore, this
 Court may not have the power under Section 48 of the
 Act to test the validity of such reasons, however, the
 present is the case where the arbitrator has not only
 not given any reasons for her conclusion but infact, the
 Award indicates that the Arbitrator is not even alive to
 such an issue.”
 Thus, the ground on which the award was set aside for failure to

 consider a material issue relating to maintainability of the arbitral

 proceedings was pigeon-holed not under Section 48(1)(b) , but under

 the “public policy of India” ground, stating that such a thing would

 violate the most basic notion of justice. 76. Given the fact that the object of Section 48 is to enforce foreign

 awards subject to certain well-defined narrow exceptions, the 108 expression “was otherwise unable to present his case” occurring in Section 48(1)(b) cannot be given an expansive meaning and would

have to be read in the context and colour of the words preceding the

said phrase. In short, this expression would be a facet of natural

justice, which would be breached only if a fair hearing was not given

by the arbitrator to the parties. Read along with the first part of Section

48(1)(b) , it is clear that this expression would apply at the hearing

stage and not after the award has been delivered, as has been held in

Ssangyong (supra). A good working test for determining whether a

party has been unable to present his case is to see whether factors

outside the party’s control have combined to deny the party a fair

hearing. Thus, where no opportunity was given to deal with an

argument which goes to the root of the case or findings based on

evidence which go behind the back of the party and which results in a

denial of justice to the prejudice of the party; or additional or new

evidence is taken which forms the basis of the award on which a party

has been given no opportunity of rebuttal, would, on the facts of a

given case, render a foreign award liable to be set aside on the

ground that a party has been unable to present his case. This must, of

course, be with the caveat that such breach be clearly made out on

the facts of a given case, and that awards must always be read 109 supportively with an inclination to uphold rather than destroy, given the

 minimal interference possible with foreign awards under Section 48 . 77. All the cases cited by Mr. Nakul Dewan are judgments based on the

 language of the particular statute reflected in each of them – for

 example, Section 68 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 (U.K), Section 23(2) of

 the Hong Kong Old Arbitration Ordinance (Cap 391), Section 24(b) of

 the International Arbitration Act (Singapore) and Section 48(1)(a)(vii) of

 the Arbitration Act, 2002 (Singapore), all of which are differently

 worded from Section 48(1)(b) . Each of these statutes deal with a

 breach of natural justice which, as we have seen, is a wider

 expression than the expression “unable to present his case”. Thus, it is

 not possible to hold that failure to consider a material issue would fall

 within the rubric of Section 48(1)(b) . 78. Having said this, however, if a foreign award fails to determine a

 material issue which goes to the root of the matter or fails to decide a

 claim or counter-claim in its entirety, the award may shock the

 conscience of the Court and may be set aside, as was done by the

 Delhi High Court in Campos (supra) on the ground of violation of the

 public policy of India, in that it would then offend a most basic notion

 of justice in this country1. It must always be remembered that poor

 1 In Sssangyong (supra), this Court cautioned that this ground would only be attracted with
 the following caveat: xxx xxx xxx 3. Restriction on investment in India by a person
 resident outside India.- Save as otherwise provided
 in the Act or rules or regulations made thereunder, no
 person resident outside India shall make any
 investment in India : A person resident outside India holding equity
instruments of an Indian company or units in
accordance with these rules or a person resident in
India, may transfer such equity instruments or units so
held by him in compliance with the conditions, if any,
specified in the Schedules of these rules and subject
to the terms and conditions prescribed hereunder: xxx xxx xxx 21. Pricing guidelines –
(1) The pricing guidelines specified in these rules shall
not be applicable for any transfer by way of sale done
in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of 113 India regulations where the pricing is specified by
 Securities and Exchange Board of India. (2) Unless otherwise prescribed in these rules, the
 price of equity instruments of an Indian company, -
 xxx xxx xxx (b) transferred from a person resident in India to a
 person resident outside India shall not be less than,-
 xxx xxx xxx (iii) the valuation of equity instruments done as per any
 internationally accepted pricing methodology for
 valuation on an arm’s length basis duly certified by a
 Chartered Accountant or a Merchant Banker registered
 with the Securities and Exchange Board of India or a
 practising Cost Accountant, in case of an unlisted
 Indian company.” 81. Based on the aforesaid Rules, the Appellants have argued that the

 transfer of shares from the Karias, who are persons resident in India,

 to the Respondent No.1, who is a person resident outside India,

 cannot be less than the valuation of such shares as done by a duly

 certified Chartered Accountant, Merchant Banker or Cost Accountant,

 and, as the sale of such shares at a discount of 10% would violate

 Rule 21(2)(b)(iii), the fundamental policy of Indian law contained in the

 aforesaid Rules would be breached; as a result of which the award

 cannot be enforced. 82. Before answering this question, it is important to first advert to the

 decision of the Delhi High Court in Cruz (supra). The learned Single

 Judge was faced with a similar problem of a foreign award violating the 114 provisions of FEMA. In an exhaustive analysis, the learned Single

Judge referred to Renusagar (supra) and then held: resident interest in them, the employment of foreigners
 in India etc.
 xxx xxx xxx 110. The contention that enforcement of the Award
 against Unitech must be refused on the ground that it
 violates any one or the other provision of FEMA,
 cannot be accepted; but, any remittance of the money
 recovered from Unitech in enforcement of the Award
 would necessarily require compliance of regulatory
 provisions and/or permissions.” 83. This reasoning commends itself to us. First and foremost, FEMA - unlike FERA - refers to the nation’s policy of managing foreign

 exchange instead of policing foreign exchange, the policeman being

 the Reserve Bank of India under FERA. It is important to remember

 that Section 47 of FERA no longer exists in FEMA, so that transactions

 that violate FEMA cannot be held to be void. Also, if a particular act

 violates any provision of FEMA or the Rules framed thereunder, 116 permission of the Reserve Bank of India may be obtained post-facto if

such violation can be condoned. Neither the award, nor the agreement

being enforced by the award, can, therefore, be held to be of no effect

in law. This being the case, a rectifiable breach under FEMA can never

be held to be a violation of the fundamental policy of Indian law. Even

assuming that Rule 21 of the Non-Debt Instrument Rules requires that

shares be sold by a resident of India to a non-resident at a sum which

shall not be less than the market value of the shares, and a foreign

award directs that such shares be sold at a sum less than the market

value, the Reserve Bank of India may choose to step in and direct that

the aforesaid shares be sold only at the market value and not at the

discounted value, or may choose to condone such breach. Further,

even if the Reserve Bank of India were to take action under FEMA, the

non-enforcement of a foreign award on the ground of violation of a

FEMA Regulation or Rule would not arise as the award does not

become void on that count. The fundamental policy of Indian law, as

has been held in Renusagar (supra), must amount to a breach of

some legal principle or legislation which is so basic to Indian law that it

is not susceptible of being compromised. “Fundamental Policy” refers

to the core values of India’s public policy as a nation, which may find

expression not only in statutes but also time-honoured, hallowed

principles which are followed by the Courts. Judged from this point of 117 view, it is clear that resistance to the enforcement of a foreign award

 cannot be made on this ground. 84. The Appellants, however, relied upon certain observations in Dropti

 Devi v. Union of India (2012) 7 SCC 499. In that case, a challenge

 was made to the constitutional validity of Section 3 of Conservation of

 Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974

 (hereinafter referred to as “COFEPOSA”), stating that by reason of the

 new legal regime articulated in FEMA, in replacement of FERA, the

 said provision has become unconstitutional in the changed situation. This submission was repelled by this Court stating: compliance results in civil imprisonment of the
 defaulter. The whole intent and idea
 behind Cofeposa is to prevent violation of foreign
 exchange regulations or smuggling activities which
 have serious and deleterious effect on national
 economy.”

It is important to note that this Court recognized that FEMA, unlike

FERA, does not have any provision for prosecution and punishment

like that contained in Section 56 of FERA. The observations as to

conservation and/or augmentation of foreign exchange, so far as

FEMA is concerned, were made in the context of preventive detention

of persons who violate foreign exchange regulations. The Court was

careful to note that any illegal activity which jeopardises the economic

fabric of the country, which includes smuggling activities relating to

foreign exchange, are a serious menace to the nation and can be

dealt with effectively, inter alia, through the mechanism of preventive

detention. From this to contend that any violation of any FEMA Rule

would make such violation an illegal activity does not follow. In fact,

even if the reasoning contained in this judgment is torn out of its

specific context and applied to this case, there being no alleged 119 smuggling activity which involves depletion of foreign exchange, as

 against foreign exchange coming into the country as a result of sale of

 shares in an Indian company to a foreign company, it does not follow

 that such violation, even if proved, would breach the fundamental

 policy of Indian law. Challenge to Enforcement of the Foreign Award in this case on facts 85. Dr. Singhvi and Shri Dewan arguing for the Appellants have raised

 fourteen submissions, all of which fall under Section 48(1)(b) read with

 Explanation 1 (ii) and (iii) to Section 48(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act,

 taken either cumulatively as grounds of objection or separately,

 depending upon the nature of the ground argued. We now deal with

 each of these grounds seriatim. I. The Tribunal failed to deal with the Appellants’ counter-claim
 pertaining to the incorporation of Jaguar Communication
 Consultancy Services Private Limited. 86. According to the Appellants, this ground of objection – i.e. the

 incorporation of Jaguar - was pleaded by them as a “concealed

 breach”, which became known to them only at a much later stage of

 the arbitral proceedings. Despite the tribunal specifically ruling in the

 First Partial Final Award that a non-defaulting party could rely on a

 “concealed breach” and treat the same as an unrectified event of

 default under clause 23.4 of the JVA, the submission made by the 120 Appellant in this behalf was ignored in its entirety. This was countered

 by Respondent No.1 by stating that there was no “concealed breach”

 at all, inasmuch as, as early as 05.10.2012, the Appellant had filed a

 request calling upon the Respondent to produce documents which

 included the list of clients, employees and disclosure of business

 activities of Jaguar. These documents were called for in order to

 buttress the case of the Appellant that the Respondent was in breach

 of clause 21.1 of the JVA, and to ascertain whether the employees of

 Jaguar were passing on Ravin’s confidential information to Jaguar. In

 response to this request, on 12.10.2012, the Respondent stated that

 no case of breach of clause 21.1 of the JVA had been pleaded; that

 Jaguar does not have any business of producing cables; and that it

 had been set up for the sole purpose of hiring office premises. The

 Memorandum of Association and the Articles of Association of Jaguar

 were also handed over to the Appellants. What was stressed is that at

 no time after 12.10.2012 did the Appellants seek the leave of the

 tribunal to amend their counter-claim. 87. It must be remembered that the First Partial Final Award was made

 only on 15.02.2013. When the Respondent No.1 made its oral

 submissions and filed written closing submissions on 19.07.2013, the

 Appellants did not plead any case of breach due to Jaguar. It was only

 at the fag end, i.e. in the Appellants’ Responsive Closing Submissions, 121 filed on 20.08.2013, that the tribunal was invited to rule on this breach. Obviously, by this time, the Respondent did not have any opportunity

 to controvert this case put up for the first time by the Appellants. Since

 this case had been put up for the first time at the fag end of the

 proceedings, before passing of the Second Partial Final Award dated

 19.12.2013, the arbitrator cannot be faulted for not dealing with this

 case. In the Second Partial Final Award, the tribunal also recorded that

 the Appellants’ case on clause 21.1 was limited to the acquisition of

 ACPL and direct sales into India. The argument of the Appellant, made

 at the fag end of the proceedings, that since the Respondent held

 99.99 % shares of Jaguar, which is in a similar cable business as

 Ravin, as evidenced by the Memorandum and Articles of Association

 of Jaguar, is a case that has never been pleaded. This being the case,

 it is obvious that the arbitrator was within his jurisdiction not to deal

 with this so-called counter-claim at all. This objection, therefore, does

 not fall within any of the grounds mentioned in Section 48 and must,

 therefore, be rejected. II. The Tribunal failed to make a determination on the Appellants’
 counter-claim concerning ouster of the Appellants 88. According to the Appellants, the tribunal failed to make a

 determination on the Appellants’ counter-claim that the Respondent’s

 efforts to oust Appellant No.1 and his family from Ravin amounted to a 122 breach of the JVA. In answer to this submission, the tribunal, in the

Second Partial Final Award, expressly set out the following: The Respondents, however, were plainly in material
 breach by their reaction to this suspension effectively
 leading to a one day strike. 293. The question of the attendance of Claimant
 nominees at the Akruti office is another chapter of the
 saga in which the Respondents do not emerge without
 serious criticism. As is clear from this Award the
 Respondents engendered a toxic atmosphere at Akruti
 in January 2012 (even in its fire stricken state) and
 such was the situation at the ground that it was not
 really possible for Claimant nominees to attend without
 fear of their own safety. 294. Lastly, the circumstances surrounding the
 appointment of the CEO and CFO does not give rise to
 any conceivable material breach on the part of the 124 Claimant. The Claimant was entitled to nominate a
 CFO and the CEO. They did so. The Respondents did
 not oppose the appointment of Ms Farise. Nevertheless they did obstruct her at every turn once
 she was appointed because it became apparent that
 she intended pursuant to the JVA to take day to day
 control of Ravin and the Respondents did not wish this
 to happen. As regards Mr Brunetti, the CFO, the
 Respondents did veto his appointment. This was not a
 material breach on their part as it was their right to do
 so under Schedule IX to the JVA. Nevertheless it
 cannot be said to be a material breach by the
 Claimant. That is unsustainable. CONCLUSION 295. The Respondents have not succeeded in
 establishing any material breach of the JVA committed
 by the Claimant.” 89. This being the case, it would be wholly incorrect to state that the

 tribunal has failed to make a determination on the Appellants’

 counter-claim that the Respondent’s efforts to oust Appellant No. 1

 and his family amounted to a breach of the JVA. While considering

 the case of the Appellants and the cross-case of the Respondent, the

 tribunal has adverted to pleadings, evidence and has given detailed

 findings as to why the Appellants are in material breach of the JVA,

 as a result of which the Respondent cannot be said to be in material

 breach of the JVA. This being the case, it cannot be said that this

 material issue has not been answered by the Second Partial Final

 Award. This ground, therefore, also does not fall within any of the

 stated pigeon-holes under Section 48 . III. The Tribunal failed to make a determination on the Appellants’
 counter-claim concerning registration of the Ravin Trademark 90. Dr. Singhvi then argued that the tribunal failed to make any

 determination on the Appellants’ counter-claim that the Respondent

 No.1’s surreptitious attempts to register the Ravin trademark in its own

 name was a material breach of the JVA. When the First Partial Final

 Award is perused, it becomes clear that what was argued before the

 arbitrator, and therefore answered by the arbitrator, is whether the

 tribunal had jurisdiction to go into the Trademark License Agreement. The First Partial Final Award records: The three points were as follows: 137. The Tribunal concludes that it does not have
jurisdiction in respect of any of these three matters. 138. The ownership of the Ravin trademark and the
right to register the same is not a dispute arising out
of, relating to, or in connection with the JVA. There is
no provision in the JVA permitting the parties to the
JVA to change the name of Ravin Cables to a new
name incorporating the word Prysmian – see Clause 9. There is also a provision for Ravin to enter into a
trademark licence agreement in the form of Schedule
5, but that agreement deals with the licence by
Prysmian and not the Ravin trademark. 139. Quite simply a dispute regarding the right to
register the Ravin trademark falls outside of the scope
of the arbitration clause. 140. This makes it unnecessary for the Tribunal to
consider further the interesting and difficult questions
of the arbitrability of such disputes, even if they were
held to fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. The Tribunal makes no finding on this
point, it not having been argued, but observes that it is
by no means a foregone conclusion that such disputes
would under English law be arbitrable. 141. Further, the disputes respectively under the
Trademark License Agreement (in the form of
Schedule 5) and the Technical Assistance Agreement
(in the form of Schedule 6) fall outside the jurisdiction
of the Tribunal. 142. It is common ground that the parties did enter into
a Trademark License Agreement in the form of
Schedule 5 and the Technical Assistance Agreement in
the form of Schedule 6. 143. Equally, it is common ground that these
 agreements made provision for disputes to be referred
 to arbitration in Milan, ltaly under Italian law. There is
 no warrant to construe the arbitration agreement in the
 JVA as somehow trespassing upon the arbitration
 agreement contained in two agreements, which the
 parties agreed to enter into and, in fact, did enter into
 with these separate dispute resolution provisions.
 Disputes under or concerning the Trademark License
 Agreement and Technical Assistance Agreement are to
 be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution
 provisions under those agreements. The Tribunal
 observes that, if there had been a dispute under
 Clause 9 of the JVA as to whether in fact the covenant
 to enter into those two further agreements had been
 complied with, then this would be a dispute under the
 JVA agreement. Nevertheless, this is not the case
 being advanced by the Respondents in their pleaded
 case.” 91. We have gone through the transcript of the hearings on both 12 th and

 13th December, 2012 before the arbitrator which clearly show that no

 argument was ever made by the Appellants before the tribunal that the

 Respondent had surreptitiously attempted to register the Ravin

 Trademark in its own name, and therefore was in breach of the

 competition clauses of the JVA. We are thus satisfied that this

 argument again appears to be an afterthought which has no

 foundation in the submissions made before the learned arbitrator. This

 submission does not again fall within any of the grounds referred to

 under Section 48 . IV. The Tribunal acted contrary to the Parties’ expert witnesses and
 ignored critical evidence with regard to the acquisition of ACPL 128 92. Dr. Singhvi argued that the tribunal acted contrary to the admissions of

 the parties’ expert witnesses and ignored critical evidence with regard

 to the acquisition of ACPL. Further, since the Respondent failed to

 produce the relevant documents regarding the competing business

 carried out by ACPL, an adverse inference ought to be drawn against

 the Respondent No.1, which the Appellants allege the learned

 arbitrator failed to do. 93. The learned arbitrator indicated his approach in the Second Partial

 Final Award as follows: 94. The tribunal then went into the acquisition of ACPL in some detail,

 from paragraphs 216 to 244 of the Second Partial Final Award, and

 held that Mr. Karia’s contemporaneous reaction to the acquisition of

 Draka, which led to an indirect acquisition of 60 subsidiaries, one of

 which was ACPL, was that he was very happy that the Respondent

 No. 1 had so expanded its business. Several congratulatory emails

 are referred to by the arbitrator. Further, the arbitrator found that Mr.

 Karia’s statements in cross-examination showed that he had

 knowledge of this acquisition way back in November 2010 but never

 complained of material breach of the JVA. The arbitrator also

 examined evidence as to serious actual loss or harm, finding no such

 credible evidence, except occasional instances of both companies

 tendering for the same business. It was held that there was no reliable

 evidence that the Ravin’s business had been lost post the ‘Draka

 acquisition’ or that there had been any diversion of business from

 Ravin to ACPL or vice versa. The arbitrator then held that ACPL is a

 small specialist cable business and operates principally in the area of

 instrumentation cables, which is not the area in which Ravin operates. The learned arbitrator also adverted to the evidence of the expert

 witnesses in arriving at this conclusion. It also made a reference to Mr. 130 Karia’s cross-examination, stating that Mr. Karia himself considered

 ACPL to be the 50th or 60th competitor given its small business. The

 finding, therefore, was that the acquisition of ACPL did not in any

 manner amount to a serious material breach of the JVA. 95. Insofar as the failure to produce documents by Respondent No.1 with

 regard to its subsidiary ACPL is concerned, it must be remembered

 that ACPL is not a direct subsidiary of Respondent No. 1, being an

 indirect subsidiary of Respondent No.1’s parent company consequent

 upon the acquisition of Draka. It has an independent Board of

 Directors. Above all, ACPL was not a party to these arbitral

 proceedings. The tribunal therefore made Procedural Order No. 5

 dated 27.11.2012 in which it specifically recorded that if the Appellants

 wish to pursue their request for disclosure of further documents qua

 ACPL, they must approach the Courts to do so, as it was not within

 the arbitrator’s power to direct a person who is not party to the

 proceedings to produce documents. At no stage did the Appellants act

 in compliance of this Procedural Order and approach an English Court

 to direct ACPL to produce documents within its possession. This being

 so, as has been held hereinabove, a party cannot complain of breach

 of natural justice when it was within the control of such party to

 approach a U.K Court for production of such documents. This not 131 having been done, it is clear that no adverse inference, as has been

 argued, could have been drawn by the learned arbitrator. This ground

 also, therefore, does not fall within any of the grounds argued before

 us under Section 48 . V. Perverse Interpretation of the JVA 96. According to Dr. Singhvi, the tribunal’s interpretation of clause 21 of

 the JVA is perverse. As has been held, referring to some of the

 judgments quoted hereinabove, in particular Shri Lal Mahal (supra),

 the interpretation of an agreement by an arbitrator being perverse is

 not a ground that can be made out under any of the grounds

 contained in Section 48(1)(b) . Without therefore getting into whether

 the tribunal’s interpretation is balanced, correct or even plausible, this

 ground is rejected. VI. The Tribunal ignored critical evidence with regard to the issue of
 agency agreements and Direct Sales 97. Dr. Singhvi argued that the tribunal ignored admissions of the

 Respondent and other critical evidence with regard to the issue of

 agency agreements and direct sales. The Second Partial Final Award

 deals with this issue and the issue regarding agreements with agents

 in great detail from paragraph 245 to paragraph 279. As many as five

 reasons are given, after examining the evidence, for rejecting the plea

 that agency or distribution agreements were entered into in violation of 132 the JVA. Further, so far as direct sales into India were concerned, after

 considering the pleadings and the evidence, the tribunal found that the

 Appellants altered their case from their pleaded case and now

 advanced a case that the fact of direct sales amounts to a material

 breach of clauses 8 and 20 of the JVA, contrary to what was stated in

 their determination notice. Even otherwise, the tribunal found that

 there was no material breach for the following reason: 98. Having perused the Award in this behalf, it cannot be said that the

 tribunal has in any manner ignored admissions or other critical 133 evidence with regard to the issue of direct sales. In any case, if at all,

 this ground goes to alleged perversity of the award, which as has

 been held by us hereinabove, is outside the ken of Section 48 . VII. The Tribunal adopted disparate thresholds in determining
 material breach 99. Dr. Singhvi has then argued that the tribunal adopted disparate

 thresholds for determining material breach between the Appellant and

 the Respondent. Again, all the allegations made under this ground go

 to perversity of the award, which is outside the ken of Section 48 . That

 apart, the tribunal indicates in paragraphs 104 to 106 of the Second

 Partial Final Award, that no disparate thresholds in determining

 material breach was adopted as follows: 100. Dr. Singhvi then argued that the tribunal’s analysis of

 contemporaneous conduct is selective and perverse. Without going

 into any further details in this ground, this argument must be rejected

 out of hand, as not falling within the parameters of Section 48 . Equally,

 the tribunal’s consideration of evidence of key witnesses being

 selective and perverse, must be rejected on the same ground. IX. The Tribunal appointed a conflicted valuer 101. Dr. Singhvi then contended that the tribunal appointed a conflicted

 valuer, which prevented the Appellants from participating in the

 valuation exercise. This has been dealt with in the Final Award dated

 11.04.2017 by the learned arbitrator as follows: On 14 October 2014 (Annexure E p. 171), Mr Karia on
behalf of the Respondents sent an email to the
Claimant in response to the Claimant's request dated
14 October 2014 (Annexure E p.170) that the
Respondents do cause the Company in a timely
fashion to execute the Engagement letter for Deloitte.
On 14 October 2014 (Annexure E p.171), Mr Karia for
the Respondents objected to the engagement of
Deloitte contending that they were conflicted out of
acting as Valuer. This was a remarkable stance to
take. On 30 April 2013 the Respondents, via an email
sent by their solicitors, had confirmed that the
Respondents were agreeable to Deloitte or KPMG
acting as independent Valuers under the JVA. The
Tribunal noted and recorded this in the Preamble to
Procedural Order No 12, albeit referring to the date as
30 April 2014. There had been no material change in
circumstance since April 2013 or Procedural Order No
12, to justify this change of position. The Tribunal
concludes that the Respondents took this position in
an attempt to hinder, delay and frustrate the valuation
exercise and consequent transfer of shares. The
Respondents advanced a series of points in their
email. Each was answered in the Claimant's solicitors'
email dated 15 October 2014 (see Annexure E p.170
to the Claimant's submissions). In summary, the
Respondent was not in a position following Procedural
Order No 12 and its prior agreement to Deloitte
subsequently to withhold its agreement to or not to
object to the appointment of Deloitte. It had been
ordered following the Respondents’ indication of
agreement or non-objection to Deloitte. 5. The Respondents had not previously sought to
identify any matters which disentitled Deloitte from
acting but instead had agreed to their name being put 136 forward to the Tribunal for appointment. Furthermore,
 the matters identified did not in any event impugn
 Deloitte's independence or ability to act as Valuer in
 accordance with the provisions of the JVA. The fact
 that Deloitte had been approached by the
 Respondents to conduct an independent valuation but
 had declined to act because of the impending role for
 the Company as Valuer only serves to underline not
 undermine their independence. Also, the fact that the
 Respondents had asked Deloitte earlier in the
 arbitration to undertake some computer forensic
 exercise was not relied upon by the Respondents nor
 did it impugn their independence. Finally, the
 Respondents refer to Deloitte having acted as auditor
 of Power Plus Cable Company LLC ("Power Plus") a
 company incorporated in the UAE and based in Dubai
 in which Ravin holds a 49% shareholding, This is not
 the same entity as the Company, and did not impugn
 Deloitte's independence and did not prohibit them
 under the terms of Clause 17.3 of the JVA from being
 appointed. Clause 17.3 only applied to a prohibition on
 the statutory auditor of the Parties to the JVA acting as
 Valuer. It is not suggested that Deloitte was the
 statutory auditor of Ravin. Power Plus was not a Party
 to the JVA. Further, Clause 17.1 of the JVA expressly
 identified Deloitte as a suitable independent party to
 be appointed as Valuer. In any event, Deloitte's role as
 auditor of Power Plus was known to the Respondents
 and having agreed not to object to Deloitte in their 30
 April 2013 email it was no longer open to the
 Respondents to advance this point. There was no
 breach of the JVA but even if there had been it was
 waived by the Respondents. 6. Thus following this exchange, Deloitte were in due
 course engaged albeit through the default
 mechanisms provided for in Procedural Order No 12.”
We are satisfied that the learned arbitrator has considered this point in

some detail and dismissed it. This objection again does not fall under

any of the grounds mentioned in Section 48 . X. Valuation ignores Ravin’s stake in Power Plus 102. Dr. Singhvi then argued that the valuation made by Deloitte

 ignored a stake of 49% of Ravin in a company called Power Plus,

 which stake has been valued by the Appellants’ valuer (one BDO) at

 INR 563 crores. Considering that this aspect was not taken into

 account by Deloitte, the valuation report ought not to have been

 accepted by the learned arbitrator, also being contrary to the position

 taken by both parties. This submission was dealt with by the learned

 arbitrator in great detail in paragraph 19 of the Final Award dated

 11.04.2017. Among other things, the learned arbitrator referred to

 clause 17 of the JVA and stated that the said clause together with the

 formula prescribed therein was followed by Deloitte. Since this was

 done, Deloitte cannot possibly be faulted and cannot further be asked

 to take into account the stake of Ravin in Power Plus, as that would go

 outside the JVA. This again is a matter for the arbitrator to determine. This again is a ground wholly outside grounds that can attract

 challenge to foreign awards under Section 48 . XI. Valuation Date 103. Dr. Singhvi then argued that the tribunal acted contrary to the

 parties’ submissions in arriving at a valuation date of 30.09.2014,

 much later on the date of the Final Award which is 11.04.2017, as the 138 parties had agreed that this date ought to be the date closest to the

date of actual sale of share and would be valid only until 31.12.2014. The learned arbitrator dealt with this objection in the Final Award dated

11.04.2017 as follows: 12 prior to the hearing in October 2014 leading to the
 making of the order of the valuation date, the
 Respondents expressly accepted that the question of
 the Valuation date was a matter properly within the
 jurisdiction of and for the determination of the Tribunal.
 The Tribunal then made an order for the valuation as
 requested by the Respondents.”

Having found that the delay in the valuation report was attributable

largely to the Appellants and that therefore the agreed date of

30.09.2014 is the correct date, we find nothing in the award which can

be said to even remotely shock our conscience. This ground is also

therefore rejected. Dr. Singhvi’s fervent plea to exercise our power

under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, so as to shift the

valuation date from 30.09.2014 to the date of our judgment must also

be rejected given the learned arbitrator’s finding. Quite apart from this,

nothing in Section 48 of the Arbitration Act would permit an enforcing

court to add to or subtract from a foreign award that must either be

enforced or rejected by reason of any of the grounds under Section 48 being made out to resist enforcement of such foreign award. This

Court’s power under Article 142 ought not to be used to circumvent the

legislative policy contained in Section 48 of the Arbitration Act. XII. Inconsistent Awards 104. Dr. Singhvi then argued that the tribunal’s ruling in the First and

 Second Partial Final Award, with regard to the interpretation of clause

 21, is inconsistent and irreconcilable. Apart from the fact that we do

 not find anything in the said two awards with regard to clause 21 being

 inconsistent and irreconcilable, this ground again does not, in any

 manner, shock our conscience and is therefore rejected. XIII. Violation of FEMA and the Rules thereunder 105. Dr. Singhvi then argued that in ordering the sale of shares at a

 10% discount of the fair market value arrived at by Deloitte, FEMA and

 the Rules made thereunder would be breached, resulting in the award

 being contrary to the public policy of India, in that it would be against

 the fundamental policy of the Indian law. As pointed out hereinabove,

 for the reasons given in paragraphs 79 to 84 of this judgment, this

 ground again is bereft of any merit. In fact, the learned arbitrator

 awarded INR 63.90 per share as per the Deloitte valuation, which was

 contractually binding under clause 17 of the JVA. Therefore, the lower

 valuation of INR 16.88 per share as in the M/s Kalyaniwalla & Mistry

 valuation report dated 04.03.2016 was not accepted. XIV. Bias of the Tribunal 141 106. Lastly, Dr. Singhvi argued that the learned arbitrator was clearly

 biased in that the outcome of the Second Partial Final Award was clear

 to the Respondent No.1, inasmuch as its agent, one M/s Gilbert Tweed

 Associates, sent out an advertisement for recruiting employees for

 Ravin, two months before the Second Partial Final Award, thereby

 showing that this agent was clear as to the outcome of the

 proceedings. This was strongly refuted by the Respondent, stating that

 at no time had Gilbert Tweed Associates been retained by them. As a

 matter of fact, an agency called M/s Key2People was engaged by

 Respondent No.1 to identify potential candidates who could be

 recruited for the company in due course. M/s Key2People, in turn,

 appointed M/s Gilbert Tweed Associates. In any case, the Respondent

 undertook to terminate the engagement of M/s Key2People by its

 email of 28.10.2013. The allegation of bias thus made was clearly a

 desperate afterthought. The contention that the arbitrator was

 otherwise biased was dealt with in the Final Award as follows: Furthermore, the Respondents have not sought to
 invoke any procedure in the English Court, which is
 the court of the seat with supervisory jurisdiction. If the 142 Respondents wished to challenge the ruling of the
 LCIA Court and challenge the further involvement of
 the Tribunal in the process, the Respondents had to
 bring a challenge within the strict time limits provided
 for in the English Arbitration Act 1996, but they have
 not done so. It is regretted that the Respondents
 continued to advance this unfounded and
 unparticularised allegation. The Tribunal has in the
 past pointed out the distinction between independence
 and impartiality on the one hand and on the other the
 role of an arbitrator who has to decide between rival
 arguments, diametrically opposed and irreconcilable
 positions adopted before it and direct clash of
 evidence before it and then apply such findings to the
 disputes before it. It is an inherent and an inevitable
 part of the arbitral process that where parties, as
 indeed has been the case in this arbitration, have
 taken radically opposing positions on the evidence and
 the law that multiple decisions will have to be made
 that will ultimately disappoint one of the parties. This
 has been exactly such a dispute. It has, however, been
 a distinct feature of this process that the Respondents
 have not only voiced their disappointment but have not
 complied with the orders of the Tribunal to protect the
 Parties' rights during the course of the Arbitration and
 not complied with the terms of the JVA as has been
 found and determined by the Tribunal in its prior
 Awards. In a dispute such as the present where it has
 been necessary to render a series of Awards, it is
 necessary for the Tribunal to apply the prior findings in
 any subsequent Award.” 107.Having answered each of the submissions of Dr. Singhvi on behalf of

 the Appellants, we cannot help but be left with a feeling that the

 Appellants are indulging in a speculative litigation with the fond hope

 that by flinging mud on a foreign arbitral award, some of the mud so

 flung would stick. We have no doubt whatsoever that all the pleas 143 taken by the Appellants are, in reality, pleas going to the unfairness of

the conclusions reached by the award, which is plainly a foray into the

merits of the matter, and which is plainly proscribed by Section 48 of

the Arbitration Act read with the New York Convention. We have read,

in detail, the four awards passed by the learned sole arbitrator and are

satisfied that he has exhaustively discussed the evidence and arrived

at detailed findings for each of the issues, claims and counter-claims,

and finally accepted the Respondent’s case and rejected the

Appellants’. Given the fact that our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the

Constitution is itself limited, and given the fact that this Court’s time

has unnecessarily been taken by a case which has already been dealt

with by four exhaustive awards on merits and also by the impugned

judgment of the Bombay High Court, we dismiss these appeals with

costs of INR 50 lakhs, to be paid by the Appellant to Respondent No.1

within 4 weeks from today. .……………………………J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

 .……………………………J.
 (Aniruddha Bose)

 ……………………………J.
 (V. Ramasubramanian)
New Delhi; 13 February, 2020.