1.1 Plaintiffs filed the present suit against defendants for
permanent and mandatory injunction, damages for infringement
of trade mark, passing off and unfair trade practice with
following reliefs:- B. The defendants, their servants, agents,
 representatives and assigns be ordered by a decree
 of mandatory injunction to deliver up to the
 plaintiff all goods/products, advertisements,
 brochure, magazines, sign boards, packaging
 cartons, unfinished products, printing cylinders,
 moulds and any other material whatsoever bearing
 the impugned trade marks or the impugned design
 as elaborated in the plaint or any other trade mark
 same/similar to plaintiff's trade marks and/or the
 design pertaining thereto. C. The defendants, their servants, agents,
 representatives and assigns be ordered by a decree
 of mandatory injunction. D. The defendants be ordered to render accounts
 for inspection to assist in ascertaining the
 damages suffered by plaintiff on account of the
 offending activities of defendants by his
 unauthorized use of the impugned packaging and
 a decree for damages be accordingly passed in CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 3 of 30
 favour of the plaintiff for the amount found due.
 E. Award punitive and exemplary damages of
 Rs.35,00,000/- along with interest @ 18% on the
 said amount since cause of action arise; against
 the defendants
 F. Award cost of the suit. Factual matrix of the case
2.1 Plaintiff no.1 is a leading firm which is inter alia
engaged in the business of manufacturing/trading & marketing of
"wireless devices and its accessories included in Class 9 since
several years. Since 2015, plaintiff no.1 is a sole proprietor, a
well-renowned trader and wholesaler of a comprehensive range
of various products. Plaintiff no.2 is proprietor of plaintiff no.1
(hereinafter, the plaintiffs shall jointly be referred as "plaintiff").
2.2 Plaintiff deals in various products in its wide range,
i.e. biometric fingerprint & password based Attendance Recorder,
Bluetooth Stereo Audio Receiver Adapter, Jogger Wireless Sports
Headphones with Mic sweat proof Ear bud, Sports Super Bass
Earphones, Anycast Wi-Fi HDMI Dongle wireless display for
smartphones, electronic USB flameless Rechargeable Cigarette
Lighter, Car Sun Visor sunglasses, eyeglasses Holder Clip
Organizers, sleek design ultra slim wireless mouse, USB Laser
and Barcode Scanner for POS, etc.
2.3 Plaintiff claims to be the leading organization in the
industry, to provide their client best quality array of products.
There are various major features of plaintiff firm, and for that
reason, plaintiff firm is the no.1 company in all over India.
Plaintiff has robust infrastructural base; highly durable products; (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 4 of 30
 ethical business policies; adroit team of professionals; prompt
delivery services; affordable price range and customization
facility. Plaintiff's firm deals with various famous brands'
products. 2.4 Plaintiff entered into a Manufacturing and Supply
Agreement with the company, namely, Shenzhen Yuyuan
Technology Company Limited on 06.05.2015, situated at
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. Through this agreement, this
company agreed to the terms that it will manufacture the
abovementioned electronic products with the name of
"ANYCAST", for plaintiff only. 2.5 Plaintiff, under the ever increasing in popular
ANYCAST brand, has more than ten products, one super
stockiest, fifteen distributors and many retailers. The distribution
network is spread across India & Online across all major e-
commerce websites including Amazon, Flipkart and Paytm, etc.
2.6 Plaintiff has complied with all requirements for
selling the abovementioned products i.e. in the matter of
certification, plaintiff got various certifications, registrations,
licenses from the various authorities, got GST Registration
Certificate and Certificate of Importer-Exporter Code (IEC), etc.
2.7 Plaintiff firm is backed with huge vendor base to
comprehend the accurate demands and necessities of their
precious customers. Owing to the support of plaintiff's well
renowned vendors, the plaintiff firm has been providing optimum
quality range of products to the clients. 2.8 By virtue of reputation enjoyed by ANYCAST, the
sales of plaintiff's products have increased manifold in India and CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 5 of 30
 within a short span the sales figures have reached a substantially
high level. Additionally, large sums of monies have been spent by
plaintiff for promoting the ANYCAST mark in India.
2.9 The sales and expenditure upon ANYCAST brand's
products of plaintiff is as follows:- Plaintiff has been using the trade mark ANYCAST continuously
and extensively in India. 2.11 By virtue of such priority in adoption and
continuous use, extensive publicity, advertising and promotional
efforts, the mark ANYCAST has acquired tremendous reputation
and goodwill. The consumers and members of the trade
exclusively associate such mark with the plaintiff. The
association of trade mark ANYCAST with the plaintiff is evident
from an Internet search conducted for ANYCAST which also
picks up hits pertaining to the plaintiff's use of the same.
2.12 In addition to common law rights arising from
priority in adoption and use, plaintiff holds statutory rights in the
trademark ANYCAST. The mark "ANYCAST" is registered vide CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 6 of 30
 Application No. 3455495 in Class-09, under Registration No.
1910069 dated 06.07.2018, notified in Journal No. 1858, which
registration is valid upto 11.01.2027, under The Trade Marks Act,
1999 . 2.13 As per plaintiff, it has recently come to its attention
and they found in the market that defendants have introduced
ANYCAST (herein after referred as 'impugned mark") in the
social media market, which is entirely the same mark as of the
plaintiff's invented mark ANYCAST, though, they did not apply
for trade mark ANYCAST, before the Trade Mark Authority,
under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 . 2.14 Plaintiff was shocked to find that defendants no.1 &
2 through defendant no.3 have unscrupulously started selling
ANYCAST brand of electronic products in the market. This fact
was revealed to plaintiff in mid of January 2019 through a survey
conducted by it. It had also discovered that goods of defendant
no.1, under the impugned trade mark are available in North India
including markets of Central Delhi. However, being a low cost
item, there is no invoice/receipt which is issued.
2.15 It is alleged that defendants no.1 and 2 have created
a fake e-mail ID i.e. [email protected] on plaintiff's
name for communications with the Amazon and pretending
himself as Vikrant Malik. Due to said fraud, misrepresentation,
baseless and passing off act, plaintiff is facing huge financial loss
in the market in respect of said trade mark. E-commerce sites
blocked plaintiff's products related to trade mark ANYCAST.
The wholesaler stopped dealing with plaintiff. Hence, plaintiff
has no customer in the market. (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 7 of 30
 2.16 Plaintiff alleges that defendants are selling and
distributing electronic goods under the impugned script of and
trade name ANYCAST to the customers at large and blatantly
infringing its trade mark. Furthermore, defendants are using the
plaintiff's name and e-mail ID to spread awareness about their
products and solicit business. 2.17 It is stated that as per AMAZON policy/terms and
conditions, the brand name/trade mark must be registered by the
Trade Mark Authority, under Trade Marks Act, 1999 , of the seller
who is going to be connected with AMAZON. In this matter,
AMAZON engaged with defendants, and allowed for marketing
their products with the mark 'ANYCAST', which was even not
applied by the defendants. Hence, there is negligent,
irresponsible, careless act of defendant no.3. Therefore,
defendant no.3 AMAZON is also responsible for the trade mark
infringement of plaintiff. 2.18 Due to common distribution channels of respective
goods, defendants misled innocent buyers and public only to take
undue advantage and earn quick and easy profits. Due to
defendants aforesaid conduct, plaintiff is facing a huge loss of
money, goodwill and reputation. There are huge difference
between the quality of spare parts of plaintiff's and defendants'
products. Defendants are using local and cheap quality spare
parts in its products and thus, spoiling plaintiff's name in the
market. 2.19 Plaintiff contends that adoption and use of
deceptively same mark ANYCAST by defendants is without
consent, authorization or license from the plaintiff. Plaintiff can CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 8 of 30
 see no valid reason or justification for defendant's adoption and
use of the deceptively same mark ANYCAST. By virtue of being
in the same trade, defendants are deemed and ought to be aware
of the plaintiff's enviable goodwill and reputation of the well-
known trade mark ANYCAST. Defendants' use of the mark
ANYCAST is for the sole purpose of encashing upon the
enviable goodwill and reputation of plaintiff's well known trade
mark ANYCAST. Such use violates plaintiff's rights in and to the
well known trade mark ANYCAST. Member of the trade and
public are likely to think that defendants have some connection
with the plaintiff, when in fact there is no such connection in
existence. 2.20 As per plaintiff, the adoption/use of the deceptively
same mark ANYCAST by defendants is neither honest nor
bonafide intention and is designed to take an unfair advantage of
the distinctive character of the well known trade mark
ANYCAST. Defendants' adoption and use of the mark
ANYCAST amounts to passing off and infringement of plaintiff's
statutory and common law rights in the trade mark ANYCAST.
2.21 It is averred that defendant's adoption and
unauthorized use of impugned trade mark constitutes the
following violations in law:- 2.22 To settle the matter amicably, plaintiff served the
defendants a legal notice dated 28.01.2019. However, rather than
trying to resolve the dispute, defendants, replied to the said legal
notice by mail on 08.02.2019, and denied all the assertions CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 9 of 30
 therein. 2.23 On the aforesaid averments, plaintiff instituted the
present suit against defendants for seeking the relief of
permanent and mandatory injunction, rendition of accounts,
damages and cost of the suit. Defence of defendants
3.1 Pursuant to summons issued to defendants,
defendants no.1 and 2 have contested the suit by way of filing
written statement. In their written statement, defendants no.1 &
2 contended that the present suit is liable to be dismissed as
plaintiff has not approached the court with clean hands and has
suppressed the material facts which are just and necessary for
proper adjudication of dispute between the parties. Suit of
plaintiff is based on concocted facts and false averments and has
been filed just to harass them. Plaint is without any cause of
action and is based on false and frivolous facts.
3.2 Plaintiff is guilty of suppressio veri and suggestio
falsi in as much as he has not only concealed the relevant and
material facts from the court but also distorted the real facts. As
such, the suit deserves to be dismissed on very outset with
passing an order of extra compensatory cost.
3.3 As per defendants, the product marketed and sold by
them as ANYCAST technology under brand name and styled as
'Captcha' is different and distinct from plaintiffs' brand. This is a
registered trade mark of defendants. As such, there is no
violation/infringement of trade mark law by them.
3.4 Defendants claimed to have bought the products
from different agents and after that marketed and sold it through CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 10 of 30
 online selling medium as they are in the business of online
selling. 3.5 Defendants contended that 'ANYCAST' is a
technology and plaintiff is neither the inventor nor the
manufacturer of the product. Plaintiff is merely marketing and
selling the products. Plaintiff has not filed any documents/proof
in support of their claim that they are selling their products for
last nine years. As per defendants, they have been selling
'ANYCAST' technology prior to registration of plaintiff's trade
mark. Therefore, there is no violation/infringement of trade mark
law by them. 3.6 It is submitted that the word ANYCAST for which
trade mark is obtained by plaintiff is a generic word and not
invented. Being a generic word, ANYCAST has been used in
several other identities either through e-commerce platform or
their own. On online search from search engines, a number of
ANYCAST product are available under different brand names
and identities. It is stated that plaintiff is not disclosing the
correct fact that many other identities are using ANYCAST
technologies. In business parlance, the technology (ANYCAST)
is also known as HDMI DONGLE/Device. 3.7 Defendants contend that the Manufacturing and
Supply Agreement dated 06.05.2015 filed by plaintiff has no
value in the eyes of law as it is not properly executed as per law
of land. It is admitted case of plaintiff that mark ANYCAST was
registered on 06.07.2018 and prior to this it is unregistered trade
mark. Thus, plaintiff had no right to institute any proceedings to
prevent or to recover damages from defendants. Plaintiff's claim CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 11 of 30
 of damages is prior to the mark registered date.
3.8 Denying all the other averments and allegations,
defendants prayed to dismiss the suit with exemplary cost. 4.1 Defendant no.3, who is a proforma defendant, in its
written statement, stated that plaintiff has impleaded them,
which is incorrect as Amazon is not a legal entity. The
appropriate legal entity is Amazon Seller Services Pvt. Ltd., a
company duly incorporated under the laws of India. Thus, the
written statement has been filed by the appropriate legal entity.
4.2 Defendant no.3 company was incorporated in the
year 2010 under The Companies Act, 1956 having its registered
office at 8th Floor, Brigade Gateway, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road,
Bangalore-560 055. The defendant owns, controls and operates
the website <www.amazon.in> (hereinafter referred to as Amazon
website) which is one of the largest online market places in India.
Thousands of sellers and prospective buyers visit and/or transact
on the Amazon website on a daily basis. The Amazon website
offers a wide range of products, provided by thousands of
independent third party sellers, spread across categories such as
books (both physical and digital), computers and accessories,
mobiles and accessories, consumer electronics, toys and games,
baby products, health and personal care products, watches,
fashion jewellery, home and kitchen products, video games,
music, luggage and bags, hand bags and clutches, sports, fitness
and outdoor equipment, shoes and apparels etc.
4.3 Defendant no.3 claims to be an intermediary as
defined under section 2 (1) (w) of The Information Technology CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 12 of 30
 Act, 2000 (in short ' IT Act '). It merely facilitates the buying and
selling of various products between independent sellers and
prospective buyers on its website. Thus, all the third-party seller
listings are merely hosted on the Amazon website and are posted
solely at the discretion of such third-party sellers.
4.4 As per defendant no.3, it has no role whatsoever in
sale and purchase of goods which take place on the Amazon
website except for providing a neutral platform in the form of
Amazon website to the sellers and buyers. Due to large number
of sellers and products available on their website, it is impossible
for them to screen and monitor each and every product listed on
their website. Therefore, as provided in section 79 of the IT Act,
intermediaries are exempt from liability arising out of any "third
party information, data or communication link made available or
hosted by him". 4.5 Defendant no.3 claims that it does not have any
association with defendant no.1 and 2. It complies with all
obligations required of an intermediary-as mandated under The
IT Act . Defendant no.3 has published a set of 'conditions of use'
which is publicly available on the Amazon website at the
following URL: <https://www.amazon.in/gp/help/customer/display.html?
nodeID=202115000>. The 'conditions of use' as published by
defendant no.3 on their website specifically prohibits anyone
from using the Amazon Website in a way which may lead to
trade mark infringement. 4.6 It is stated that an automated grievance redressal
mechanism is present on the Amazon website by means of which
any third party can submit their infringement related grievance CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 13 of 30
 pertaining to product available on their website. The page can be
found at the URL: <https://www.amazon.in/report/infringement>.
Defendant no.3 has also published the details of its Grievance
Officer in accordance with the intermediary guidelines, who can
be contacted by any third party in case of any grievance relating
to the content hosted on the Amazon website. Details of the
Grievance Officer are available in the privacy notice published
on the Amazon website at the URL: However, till date no response has been received from plaintiff.
Denying all the other averments and allegations, defendant no.3
prayed to dismiss the suit against it. Rejoinder
5.1 Plaintiff filed rejoinder to the written statement of
defendants no.1 & 2, wherein the averments of the written
statement has been denied and plaintiff reiterated the facts as
mentioned in the plaint. 5.2 As per plaintiff, it is no where mentioned that
ANYCAST is the name of a technology or it has some another
meaning even in any dictionary. ANYCAST is an inventory
name which is invented and discovered by plaintiffs and has no
dictionary meaning as the same is unique in its own way.
Defendants have themselves admitted that they are using
registered brand name/trade mark 'ANYCAST' of plaintiff by
placing on record invoices dated 01.06.2017 and 22.09.2018 with
their written statement. The rights claimed by defendants upon
the word "CAPTCHA" is totally baseless, groundless and CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 15 of 30
 unjustified. 5.3 Plaintiff states that 'CAPTCHA' is a technology
name not ANYCAST as stated by defendants. As per Trade
Mark Law, nobody can claim the rights upon the word
'CAPTCHA' for their technology products. Therefore, the mark
'CAPTCHA' as registered vide application no.2882461 in Class
99 (9 & 17) under the name of defendant no.2 is legally
challengable and denied in toto. 5.4 On 18.05.2019, the premises of defendants were
searched, where the following infringed goods were found:- (i)
ANYCAST wireless Adopter, 645 quantity approx.; and (ii)
packaging material of ANYCAST in 524 numbers approx (as
mentioned in the Inventory Report dated 18.05.2019, prepared by
the Local Commissioner). After making inventory, the same were
seized, sealed and given to plaintiff on Superdari. The
registered/documents/ online data, as available upon Amazon and
Flipkart site were also found. Issues
6.1 On the basis of pleadings of the parties, the
following issues were framed on 21.10.2023:- 7.3 On the other hand, defendants no.1 and 2 have
examined Mr.Triambak Sahai, Proprietor of defendant no.1 as
DW1. DW1 filed his evidence by way of affidavit, EX.DW-X.
He has proved copy of sale invoices as Ex.DW1/C and copy of
downloaded documents regarding 'ANYCAST' Technology as
Ex.DW1/D.

8.1 Having heard and considered the rival submissions
of parties, my issue wise findings are as under:- OPD. 9.1 Onus to prove the above issues lie on plaintiff. In
order to discharge the onus to prove the issues, plaintiff no.2 Mr.
Vikrant Malik has examined himself as PW1. Mr.Malik filed his
evidence by way of affidavit, Ex.PW1/A, wherein he has deposed
and corroborated about the facts as mentioned in the plaint. He
has proved the trade mark status of plaintiff's mark 'ANYCAST'
along with relevant documents as Ex.PW1/3 (colly.). He has also
proved the Registration Certificate of plaintiff's trade mark
'ANYCAST' as Ex.PW1/4. He further proved the invoice of
purchase of the mark 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' as Ex.PW1/5.
9.2 In his cross-examination recorded on 24.02.2024,
PW1 stated that the trade mark registration of plaintiff is dated
06.07.2018. He denied the suggestion that 'ANYCAST' is a
technology and it is a generic word. He further denied that
plaintiff no.1 is not inventor of 'ANYCAST'
9.3 On the other hand, defendant no.2 Mr. Triambak
Sahai, Proprietor of defendant no.1 has examined himself as
DW1. Mr. Sahai filed his evidence by way of affidavit, CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 18 of 30
 Ex.DWX, wherein, he has reiterated and reaffirmed the same
facts as stated in the written statement of defendants no.1 and 2.
9.4 In his cross-examination, DW1 stated that he has
been selling 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' since 2016. He used to
sell product exclusively on online market places. He used to sell
the 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' products only on Amazon. He
denied the suggestion that he was also selling 'CAPTCHA
ANYCAST' product on Shopclues. He could not tell the exact
price and number of units of 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' products
sold by him. He also could not tell which technology is used for
running 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST'. He admitted that he has not
filed any cancellation or rectification petition against plaintiff's
trade mark 'ANYCAST'. 9.5 Learned counsel for plaintiff submitted that plaintiff
no.1 is the registered proprietor of the trade mark 'ANYCAST'
and also the prior user of the same. The defendants use of
identical trade mark as of plaintiff in respect of identical goods
amounts to infringement of plaintiff's trade mark. The act of
adopting and using an identical trade mark is bound to cause
confusion among the public and the trade. Thus, plaintiff is
entitled to the relief of permanent injunction in accordance with section 135 of The Trade Marks Act, 1999. 9.6 He further submitted that defendants no.1 and 2 by
adopting plaintiff's trademark in its entirety have attempted to
pass of their products as that of plaintiff and thus, have
committed passing off. 9.7 Per contra, learned counsel for defendants no.1 and
2 submitted that the product marketed and sold by defendants is CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 19 of 30
 of 'ANYCAST' technology under brand name and styled as
'CAPTCHA' which is different and distinct from plaintiffs'
brand. There is no violation/infringement of trade mark law by
defendants. The defendants bought the above product from
different agents and marketed and sold it through online selling
medium. 9.8 He argued that 'ANYCAST' is a technology and
plaintiff is neither the inventor nor the manufacturer of the
product. Plaintiff is merely marketing and selling the product.
Plaintiff has not filed any document/proof in support of their
claim that they have been selling their product since 2010.
Defendants have been selling 'ANYCAST' technology prior to
registration of plaintiff's trade mark. He further submitted that
the word 'ANYCAST' for which trade mark has been obtained
by plaintiff is a generic word and not invented. The word
'ANYCAST' has been used by several other identities either
through e-commerce platform or on their own. Inviting attention
of this court to section 27 of The Trade Marks Act, 1999, he
submitted that plaintiffs have no right to institute any
proceedings to prevent or to recover damages from the
defendants. 9.9 I have given thoughtful consideration to the
submissions made by learned counsel for parties, gone through
the evidence led by parties in their respective contentions and
perused the entire material on record. 9.10 By virtue of Registration Certificate, Ex.PW1/4 at
page 103 of plaintiff's documents, plaintiff is the registered
proprietor of the trade mark 'ANYCAST'. The trade mark of CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 20 of 30
 plaintiff was registered on 08.07.2018 in Class-9. The
documents, Ex.PW1/3 (colly.) i.e. trade mark status of plaintiff's
trade mark 'ANYCAST' show that plaintiff applied for the trade
mark on 11.01.2017 and he has been using the said trade mark
since 04.09.2010. The plaintiff's trade mark is valid upto
11.01.2027. 9.11 On the other hand, the document, Ex.DW1/A shows
that defendant is proprietor of trade mark 'CAPTCHA' which
was registered on 09.10.2017 in Class-99. 9.12 Admittedly, defendants no.1 and 2 are not the
registered owner and proprietor of the mark 'ANYCAST'. They
have been selling their products under the brand name
'CAPTCHA ANYCAST'. The defendants have failed to stop
selling the said products under the brand name 'CAPTCHA
ANYCAST' despite service of Cease and Desist Notice,
Ex.PW1/6 (on page 121 to 129 of plaintiff's documents).
9.13 Section 29 of The Trade Marks Act, 1999 which
deals with infringement of registered trade marks is reproduced
herein below for ready reference:- section (2), the court shall presume that it is likely to
 cause confusion on the part of the public. (4) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who, not being a registered proprietor or a person
 using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of
 trade, a mark which- (a) is identical with or similar to the registered
 trade mark; and (b) is used in relation to goods or services
 which are not similar to those for which the
 trade mark is registered; and (c) the registered trade mark has a reputation
 in India and the use of the mark without due
 cause takes unfair advantage of or is
 detrimental to, the distinctive character or
 repute of the registered trade mark. (5) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person,
 if he uses such registered trade mark, as his trade
 name or part of his trade name, or name of his
 business concern or part of the name, of his business
 concern dealing in goods or services in respect of
 which the trade mark is registered.(6) For the
 purposes of this section, a person uses a registered
 mark, if, in particular, he-- (a) affixes it to goods or the packaging thereof; (b) offers or exposes goods for sale, puts them
 on the market, or stocks them for those
 purposes under the registered trade mark, or
 offers or supplies services under the registered
 trade mark; (c) imports or exports goods under the mark; or (d) uses the registered trade mark on business
 papers or in advertising. (7) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person
 who applies such registered trade mark to a material
 intended to be used for labelling or packaging goods,
 as a business paper, or for advertising goods or CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 22 of 30
 services, provided such person, when he applied the
 mark, knew or had reason to believe that the
 application of the mark was not duly authorised by
 the proprietor or a licensee. (8) A registered trade mark is infringed by any
 advertising of that trade mark if such advertising-- (a) takes unfair advantage of and is contrary to
 honest practices in industrial or commercial
 matters; or (b) is detrimental to its distinctive character; or (c) is against the reputation of the trade mark.
 (9) Where the distinctive elements of a registered
 trade mark consist of or include words, the trade
 mark may be infringed by the spoken use of those
 words as well as by their visual representation and
 reference in this section to the use of a mark shall be
 construed accordingly." 9.14 In the case of Sri Pattatharasiamman Textile
Registered Firm vs. A. Lakshmanan , 2009 (41) PTC 427 (Mad.),
it was held that a trader acquires a valuable right to property in a
distinctive mark merely by using it in connection with the goods
irrespective at the length of such use and the extent of his trade. 9.15 In the case reported as Max Healthcare Institute Ltd.
vs. Sahrudya Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. 2019 SCC OnLine Del. 9036,
it was held by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi that the test for
infringement of a label/word mark is the test of prominent word
of the mark. The adoption by the defendant of a prominent word
in the label/device mark of the plaintiff amounts to infringement.
9.16 In the instant case, admittedly, defendants no.1 and 2
are not the registered proprietor of the trade mark 'ANYCAST'.
They have been using the said prominent mark 'ANYCAST'
along with their registered mark 'CAPTCHA' i.e. 'CAPTCHA
ANYCAST' for selling their products without permission and
consent of plaintiff. Both the parties are dealing in sale of same
products. The customer base of the parties is also same. Thus, CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 23 of 30
 the use of prominent word of plaintiff's trade mark 'ANYCAST'
by defendants in sale of their products without consent of
plaintiff amounts to infringement. Defendants use of trade mark
'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' amounts to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark 'ANYCAST' as there is deceptive similarity in
defendants mark which is likely to cause confusion to the
customers. 9.17 In Ruston & Hornsby Ltd. vs. The Zamindara
Engineering Co. 1970 AIR 1649, Hon'ble Supreme Court
observed that the use of "Rustam India" by defendant was
deceptively similar to plaintiff's trade mark "Ruston" and
plaintiff was found entitled to initiate action for infringement
against defendant. 9.18 In Devi Pesticides Pvt. Ltd. vs. Shiv Agro Chemical
Industries 2006 (32) PTC 434 (Mad.), it was observed that "it is
well settled principle of law that any action for infringement and
passing off where the similarity between the plaintiff and
defendant's trademark is so close either visually, phonetically or
otherwise and the court reaches the conclusion that there is
imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that the
plaintiff's rights are violated. 9.19 As per section 29 (5) of The Trade Marks Act, 1999,
a registered trade mark is infringed by a person, if he uses such
registered trade mark as his trade name or part of his trade name
or name of his business concern or part of the name of his
business concern, dealing in goods or services in respect of
which the mark is registered. A bare reading of the aforesaid
provision makes it clear that even if part of the registered trade CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 24 of 30
 mark is used, it would amount to infringement.
9.20 In the case in hand, 'ANYCAST' is registered trade
mark of plaintiff. 'CAPTCHA' is registered trade mark of
defendant no.1. Defendants no.1 and 2 are using the mark
'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' of which 'ANYCAST' is not registered
in his name. They are using registered trade mark of plaintiff as
part of their mark for selling their products. Thus, in view of section 29 (5) of The Trade Marks Act, 1999, the use of trade
mark 'ANYCAST' by defendants in selling of their products
amounts to infringement. 9.21 The defence of defendants is that 'ANYCAST' is a
technology and plaintiff is neither the inventor nor the
manufacturer of the product. The word 'ANYCAST' for which
trade mark has been obtained by plaintiff is a generic word and
not invented. Defendants have admittedly not initiated any
cancellation or rectification action against plaintiff's registered
trade mark 'ANYCAST' at any forum. In his cross-examination,
DW1 Mr. Triambak Sahai could not tell as to which technology
is running 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST'. He does not dispute that
plaintiff's trade mark is not valid and it should be cancelled.
Thus, defendants have miserably failed to prove on record that
'ANYCAST' is a technology and generic word. 9.22 As per section 31 of The Trade Marks Act,
registration is prima facie evidence of validity. Since, plaintiff is
registered owner of the trade mark 'ANYCAST', therefore,
defendants have no right to use the same in respect of the
products similar to that of plaintiff. The sale of products by
defendants no.1 and 2 by adopting and using plaintiff's trade CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 25 of 30
 mark 'ANYCAST' to their products as that of the plaintiff
amounts to passing off. The public at large could be confused
and deceived while purchasing the products sold by defendants
by the name 'CAPTCHA ANYCAST' as that of plaintiff.
9.23 Section 27 of The Trade Marks Act, 1999 as relied
upon by defendants no.1 and 2 is not of any help for them as it
provides that no infringement action will lie in respect of an
unregistered trade mark. This section recognizes the common law
rights of the trade mark owner to take action against any person
for passing off as the goods of another person or as services
provided by another person or the remedies thereof. In the
present case, since plaintiff is registered owner and proprietor of
trade mark 'ANYCAST' and defendants are infringing its trade
mark, therefore, plaintiff is entitled to institute the proceedings
against defendants. 9.24 For the foregoing reasons and discussions, I am of
the view that plaintiff has succeeded to discharge the onus to
prove issues no.(i) and (ii). Defendants have failed to discharge
the onus to prove issue no.(iv). Accordingly, issues no.(i) and (ii)
are decided in plaintiff's favour and against the defendants. Issue
no.(iv) is also decided in favour of plaintiff and against
defendants. Issue no.(iii)
Whether defendants no.1 and 2 are liable to pay damages?OPP.
10.1 Plaintiff has prayed for grant of punitive and
exemplary damages to the tune of Rs.35,00,000/- along with
interest @ 18% per annum on the said amount. He has also
prayed to direct defendants to render accounts for inspection to CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 26 of 30
 assist in ascertaining the damages suffered by him on account of
offending activities by unauthorized use of impugned packaging.
10.2 Vide order dated 13.05.2019, Local Commissioner
was appointed to visit the premises of defendants no.1 and 2 at
116-A, Pocket-12, Jasola Vihar, Delhi-25 and C-61/3, Okhla
Phase-II, New Delhi-20 and also at F-17, 2nd Floor, Sector-6,
Noida-201 301 to seize all wireless devices and all other products
bearing the trade mark ANYCAST'. 10.3 Pursuant to directions of the court, the Local
Commissioner visited the premises of defendants i.e. C-61/3,
Okhla Phase-II, New Delhi on 18.05.2019, where Mr. Triambak
Sahai, the owner of defendant no.1 company met. The infringed
goods i.e. 524 packaging material of 'ANYCAST' and 645
'ANYCAST' wireless adopter were found at the premises which
were seized, sealed and handed over to plaintiff as per inventory.
The premises bearing no.116A, Pocket-12, Jasola, New Delhi
was found locked and thus, could not be inspected. Plaintiff did
not take the learned Local Commissioner to the third address i.e.
at F-17, 2nd Floor, Sector-6, Noida. Therefore, no inspection at
the said address could take place. 10.4 DW1 Mr. Triambak Sahai, in his affidavit of
evidence, Ex.DWX, has not disputed and denied the recovery
and seizure of the infringed material. 10.5 Learned counsel for plaintiff submitted that
defendant no.3 has filed affidavit dated 30.09.2022, wherein the
defendant has provided a comprehensive list of number of
transactions done by defendant no.1 under the trade mark
'CAPTCHA ANYCAST'. The total of these transactions come CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 27 of 30
 out to approximately Rs.25,44,828/- for 2984 sale transactions,
Rs.8,00,000/- for 1026 replacement transactions and
Rs.4,60,664/- for refund transactions. He argued that for each
transaction that was done under the name of 'CAPTCHA
ANYCAST' it meant loss of sale and profits for plaintiffs.
10.6 On the other hand, learned counsel for defendants
no.1 and 2 submitted that defendants have not committed any
infringement of trade mark and passing off. Further, plaintiff has
not suffered any damages from the action of defendants no.1 and 2. Therefore, plaintiff is not entitled for any damages.
10.7 Considered the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. 10.8 It is well settled that courts usually grant notional or
compensatory damages unless there are extenuating
circumstances and overwhelming evidence of wrong doing when
punitive damages can be awarded (Reliance is placed upon Hindustan Uniliver Pvt. Ltd. vs. Reckitt Benckiser India Ltd. 2014 SCC OnLine Del 490. 10.9 Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Koninlijke Philips
& Others vs. Amazestore and Others 2019:DHC:2185 has laid
down certain standards for grant of damages. As part of the said
standards, this situation would be of a repeated knowing infringer
causing minor/major impact to plaintiff , in that case , costs plus
partial/compensatory damages are to be awarded. 10.10 In Koninlijke Philips & Others (supra), Hon'ble
Delhi High Court was of the view that the rule of thumb that
should be followed while granting damages can be summarized
in a chart as under:- 10.11 In the present case, as per affidavit dated 28.09.2022
filed by defendant no.3 along with details of transactions made
on its website <amazon.in> pertaining to defendants no.1 and 2,
the total transactions come out to approximately Rs.25,44,848/-
for 2984 sale transactions. Defendants did not stop selling the
infringed products despite service of cease and desist notice. At
the time of visit of Local Commissioner, 524 packaging material
of ANYCAST and 645 ANYCAST wireless adopter were
recovered from the premises of defendants on 18.05.2019. Since
defendants were selling the impugned products without consent
of plaintiff and they did not stop from selling the same despite
request and objections, they are liable to pay damages to plaintiff. 10.12 In view of foregoing reasons, defendants no.1 and 2
are directed to pay damages to plaintiff which is quantified to CS (COMM.) No.324/2019 (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 29 of 30
 Rs.2,50,000/- i.e. roughly around 10% of Rs.25,44,828/- for the
transactions made by defendants no.1 and 2. Defendants are
further directed to pay cost of litigation to plaintiffs which is
quantified as Rs.1,00,000/-. 10.13 In view of above, I am of the view that plaintiff has
succeeded to discharge the onus to prove this issue. Accordingly,
issue no. (iii) is decided in plaintiff's favour and against the
defendants. issue no.(v)

Relief

11.1 In view of findings given on issue no.(i) to (iv), suit
of plaintiff is decreed. The following reliefs are granted to
plaintiff:- 12.1 Decree sheet be prepared. 13.1 File be consigned to Record Room. Announced in the open court (RAJ KUMAR TRIPATHI)
Dated: 06.07.2024 District Judge (Commercial Court)-08,
 South-East District, Saket Courts, New Delhi. (M/s Shopping Series & Anr. vs. Shopper Gallery & Ors.) Page No. 30 of 30