The parent company of a private explosives manufacturer hired by the Ministry of Defence has suffered a ransomware attack, said a government official speaking to Hindustan Times . The government is still figuring out who attacked the company and how much data was lost.

What’s a ransomware attack? Ransomware is a form of malware designed to encrypt files on a device. Once it’s done that, the files (and systems that rely on them) become unusable. The attacker then demands a ransom to decrypt the files.

So, who was attacked? Solar Industries Limited India, a Nagpur-based company. Its subsidiary—Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL)—was hired by the Ministry of Defence in October 2020 to supply one million multi-mode hand grenades to the Indian Army. Why? To replace a World War II-era grenade design being used by the armed forces. EEL also provided “other types of ammunition” to the army. It’s also involved in manufacturing the Pinaka rockets developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. Last year, the company received orders worth ₹ 24,419 million, said defence analyst Mandeep Bajwa speaking to Hindustan Times . The report doesn’t specify if those were all government orders.

And what was attacked? We still don’t really know. The official speaking to Hindustan Times didn’t confirm if the data was stolen by the attackers, or if any ransom demand had been made. The paper added that the group’s website was publicly inaccessible on Sunday evening—and that seems to be the case as of publishing this article too. Hindustan Times added that the “Black Cat (Alphb)” group claimed on a dark web listing that it had stolen two terabytes of data. These claims weren’t independently verified by the paper.

Why it matters? Sensitive data on the kinds of weapons the Indian Army uses—or plans to use—might fall into the “wrong hands”, explains Bajwa. What that means: actors interested in disrupting India’s security could gain access to information on the arms and systems that protect it. That’s a huge cause for concern. This isn’t the first time India’s sensitive sectors have been hit by cyberattacks either. The All India Insitute of Medical Sciences was hit by a suspected ransomware attack reportedly by a “foreign state actor” a few months ago. It forced the hospital to run manually and potentially compromised the health data of the thousands of patients frequenting the government hospital. The government held several cybersecurity workshops after the attack to train public officers on how to “identify threats before they hit the network, find ways to determine the credibility of ransoms demanded by perpetrators, and handle them effectively”.

Why are we holding workshops? Doesn’t India have cyberattack policies? No, we don’t. That’s a problem on two counts. These critical sectors (like defence and healthcare) are dealing not only with sensitive data but information that is crucial to protecting India’s national interests online. But, India doesn’t have a data protection law. So, there are no concrete standards on how to deal with sensitive information—and few consequences when it’s leaked. We have also been waiting for a National Cybersecurity Strategy since 2019 to codify and protect our national interests online. The last we heard, that draft was being reviewed by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). MediaNama has filed RTIs with the PMO and IT Ministry on the status of the policy. This piece will be updated if and when the offices reply.

Read More

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event