SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Need guidance with a lot of shit, fellow randians, yes godman included. Please help.
DATE: 2015-05-20
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/36l3dp/np_need_guidance_with_a_lot_of_shit_fellow/

--- POST TEXT ---

Edit: Don't want this post to trend on the subreddit. Too much personal info and cousins browse this sub, so might end up going wrong. Pls help. 

I am a 23 y.o. guy who finished engineering in 2014. I have a younger brother who is currently giving his engineering entrance exams for various colleges.

Now, my family is a quiet well-to-do business background. They have been doing this one particular business for the past 15+years and dare I say, we are one of the top market leaders in that particular product. 

As I was finishing my engineering, there was a huge debate in the house on whether I should be going for MBA or should I do a job or should I join the family business.

This debate finally got resolved when I got placed in a quiet good company via campus placements and so, even though my father wanted me to either do an MBA or join the family business, I decided to go ahead with the job and see after two years what I want to do.

Now the fucking problem began when that company, did not send a date of joining. It has been a year and a half since i've gotten placed, and none of my batchmates have got the date of joining yet. Worse, the same company went to college this year and recruited new people, who I presume are also waiting for the date of joining. (This is a huge scam and a rant for another day, so I will leave it here.)

After college got over, dad was like I should start going to work with him till the DoJ comes, and when it did not come till about November last year, I decided to go ahead with the family business thing, and do an MBA after 2 years. 

I am quiet liking the business but I still want to do an MBA to complete my education. I really want to go abroad and do my MBA because I feel that that will help me bring in fresh perspective into the family business when I finally come back and join them.
 
Now that I have started preparing for my MBA entrance exams, my dad has decided that either I do an MBA from a very good college or I don't do it at all. Going abroad, according to him, is completely out of the question (even though we can afford it and I know so because I have seen the finances of the business). 
And also, this is a big issue because my younger brother also wanted to go abroad for his graduation. 

When we were applying for his entrance exams, my dad did not pay any attention to what colleges he was applying/ what entrances he was giving, and frankly, his ignorance was fine because he had literally said: "Jaise theek lagta hai karo..." My brother did not get his expected score in his JEE mains and so dad has formed an opinion that he should do graduation in a subject that is of his caliber, i.e. BBA. He does not want him to pursue engineering, let alone going abroad. He wants that that my brother do a BBA course from a local college. 

Also, there is another angle to this. 

Enter, the godman.

There is the godman that our family consults every time a big decision has to be taken. I finished graduation, go ask the godman what would be appropriate for me. Want to buy a car? Go ask the godaman. Want to buy a house? Go ask the godman. Dont know how to deal with a family disagreement? Go ask the godman. Want to rennovate your house? Go ask the godman to give you a budget. If it exceeds the budget, well fuck you, it cant. If it still does, be sure to do some puja, for you have committed a sin. 
It is irritating and interfering. I do not believe in that guy or god for that matter. 

Point is, that godman is fucking interfering with family issues anyways. He apparently gets a god in him every month once a month and so you can go and ask him your troubles and he will give you your solutions. Those solutions are anything but solution IMO. 
You want a house? 

His reply: you make roti's out of 300gms atta and feed said to cow before 10 am every tuesday and thursday till I (godman) tell you to stop doing so. 
U: What about house? 
GM: Oh dont talk about it for the next 3 months. 

After 3 months: 
U: what about house? 
GM: What about house?
U: Ive been feeding the cows rotis for the past 3 months, you said ask after 3 months
GM: Ok. Good. Wake up at 5 in the morning and to XYZ puja. 
U: House?
GM: In time. Not now.

^ Has been happening for the past 2 years.

Now, the shitty reasoning and delay is not the only problem with him. He has also met with our grandparents and decided on the will which will divide the family business when they pass away. According to that will, my father and his brother are getting 30% each, godman (the guy) is getting 10%, and the remaining 30% has to be given to godman (the guy) for donation towards godman (the god) *(&lt;- Not sure if it made sense, please ask for explanation. )*

So when I, as a 23 year old, consider my career opportunities, I take all of this into consideration, and I feel that that even though right now there is a lot of money and comfort, very soon, because of shitty decisions made by others, I will not have much left. And I know for a fact that as of today, we can afford a good quality education from abroad, and that education will stay with me till I die. So why shouldn't I? Similarly for my brother, why shouldn't he be pushed to go and do graduation abroad?

I know that studying abroad is a uphill task. It is difficult and it requires a lot of effort. I know for a fact that I cannot fight two battles at once. No one can. It is very disheartening to know that my dad wants my brother to do BBA from a sidey college when he has gotten admission in a much better engineering college that will give him the opportunity to go abroad. 

I know that a lot of you might tell me how education abroad is just a sham, not good, not worth it, etc etc. It might be true. Even for once, if it is true, why is it that I as a 23 year old can't decide what I want to do with my life? Why is it that even if I get the admit in a half decent foreign univ., I will not be allowed to go there. And it will not be because of financial issues, or anything else. It will be because either my dad does not like it or because the godman said no. 

I know there are a lot of issues I have listed in this rant. Please advise on any.

TLDR; Well to do family, father adamant about not letting me or my brother go abroad. Because fuck you, that why. 
Family business is a good option now, but Will is made such that me and my brother will basically inherit just about 15% of the family business each. 
40% will go to a godman who has been dicking around with all things in the family coz he apparently can talk to god. 
Now preparing for MBA, I don't know what I should aim for. Same for brother who wants to do engineering from abroad, and has got a provisional admission, but is being pushed to do BBA from local college, because JEE mains score was not as he expected it to be.