1. The Petitioner approaches us for assistance in what appears SHEPHALI SANJAY MORMARE Date: 2022.02.09 to us to be perhaps an extreme, but not entirely unanticipated,
19:03:45 +0530

 situation. Very shortly stated, according to the Petitioner, he found
 that his PAN card and Aadhaar Card were misused by certain
 persons in Rajkot. While the photographs uploaded by those persons
 were not those of Petitioner, the PAN and Aadhaar card numbers
 corresponded to those of the Petitioner. The Petitioner, therefore,
 has approached this Court asking not only for an enquiry but also for
 a cancellation and suspension of his PAN card and Aadhaar Card
 and consequential reliefs. 9th February 2022
 975-OSWP-3586-2021.DOC 2. We are not at this stage concerned about the exact frame of
the prayers. We do not in fact see this as an adversarial litigation. We
require an Affidavit from the Unique Identification Authority of
India ("UIDAI"), Respondent No. 1, as to what measures can be
taken in a situation like this to ensure the security and integrity of an
Aadhaar Card. 3. The appropriate Income Tax Department will need to be
joined as a Respondent and we grant leave to amend without need of
reverification. Amendments are to be effected within four days from
today and service is to be effected within four working days
thereafter. We require a similar Affidavit from a responsible officer
who is concerned with the issuance of PAN cards to identify what
steps can be taken in either rectification or mitigation. 4. We note this as a matter of concern because PAN card and
Aadhar card have become virtually universally accepted and even
demanded as proof of identity, address and so on. This necessarily
means that the integrity of these data depositories is crucial. There
is additional the question of privacy as well. 5. We also permit the Petitioners to add Andhra Bank
Ahmedabad in Navrangpur Branch as a party Respondent since
those who apparently misused the Petitioners documents have
opened an account there. 6. Lastly, we grant liberty to the Petitioners to move urgently if
any steps are been taken by any authorities against the Petitioner. 9th February 2022
 975-OSWP-3586-2021.DOC 7. The Affidavits by the UIDAI and Income Tax on the
questions identified above are to be filed and served on or before
11th March 2022. 8. These Affidavits in Reply may also address the question if the
fault or liability was that of the Petitioner in any way in being remiss
in maintaining the security of his personally identifiable information
and, specifically, the PAN and Aadhaar cards or numbers. If only the
numbers of these documents were misused, then we will need an
explanation as to how any bank or authority could have proceeded
without cross-verification and asking for copies of the relevant
documents, for these would undoubtedly have shown the mismatch
in photographs. 9. At this stage we do not permit a Rejoinder and list the
Petition on 22nd March 2022. 10. At Mr Jetly's request and in view of the issues involved we
request the assistance of the office of the learned Additional
Solicitor General, while clarifying that we have not actually issued
notice to the Attorney General in this matter. 11. All concerned will act on production of a digitally signed copy
of this order.