KURIAN, J. 1. Fairness, integrity and transparency are the hallmarks of

 the stock market in India. The Securities and Exchange Board Signature Not Verified of India (hereinafter referred to as “SEBI”) is the vigilant Digitally signed by NARENDRA PRASAD Date: 2018.02.08 17:25:09 IST Reason: watchdog. Whether the factual matrix justified the 1 watchdog’s bite is the issue arising for consideration in this

case. 2. There are two sets of party respondents – the traders

and the brokers. SEBI proceeded against the traders for

violation of Regulations 3(a), (b) and (c) and 4 (1), (2)(a) and (b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition

of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities

Market) Regulations, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as “the

PFUTP Regulations”). In the case of brokers, the charge is that

they also violated Regulations 7A (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and

Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992. 3. As the matter before us involves three traders and three

brokers, for convenience, we have extracted the dates of the

decision of the Adjudicating Officer (hereinafter referred to as

“A.O.”) and the Securities Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter

referred to as “the SAT”) in the table below: 4. Both the facts and the law are complex, and hence, we

shall first analyse the legal framework. 5. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 was

introduced “… to prevent undesirable transactions in

securities by regulating the business of dealing therein, by

providing for certain other matters connected therewith”.

Section 18A dealing with contracts in derivatives was 3 introduced with effect from 22.02.2000. The provision reads

as follows: change; (b) settled on the clearing house of the
 recognised stock exchange; or in
 accordance with the rules and bye- laws of such stock exchange; (c) between such parties and on such
 terms as the Central Government
 may, by notification in the official
 Gazette, specify.”

 “Derivative” is defined under Section 2(ac) of the 1956

Act, which read as under: ties. 4 (C) commodity derivatives; and

 (D) such other instruments as may be de- clared by the Central Government to be deriv-
 atives;” 6. “Option in securities” is defined under Section 2 (d) of

the 1956 Act, which reads as under: 7. The term “securities” is defined under Section 2(h) of

the 1956 Act, which reads as under: Regulation 3 speaks of prohibition about certain dealings in

securities and Regulation 4 provides for prohibition of

manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices. The

regulations relevant for the purpose of the present case read

as under: ceptive device or contrivance in contra- vention of the provisions of the Act or the
 rules or the regulations made there un-
 der; (c) employ any device, scheme or artifice to
 defraud in connection with dealing in or
 issue of securities which are listed or pro- posed to be listed on a recognized stock
 exchange; (d) engage in any act, practice, course of
 business which operates or would oper- ate as fraud or deceit upon any person in
 connection with any dealing in or issue of
 securities which are listed or proposed to
 be listed on a recognized stock exchange
 in contravention of the provisions of the
 Act or the rules and the regulations made
 there under. “4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and
unfair trade practices

(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of
regulation 3, no person shall indulge in a
fraudulent or an unfair trade practice
insecurities. (2) Dealing in securities shall be deemed to
be a fraudulent or an unfair trade practice if it
involves fraud and may include all or any of
the following, namely:— (a) indulging in an act which creates false or
misleading appearance of trading in the secu-
rities market; 8 (b) dealing in a security not intended to ef- fect transfer of beneficial ownership but in-
 tended to operate only as a device to inflate,
 depress or cause fluctuations in the price of
 such security for wrongful gain or avoidance of
 loss; (e) any act or omission amounting to manip- ulation of the price of a security; (g) entering into a transaction in securities
 without intention of performing it or without
 intention of change of ownership of such secu-
 rity; 14. The Regulations do not provide a definition for unfair

trade practices but “fraud” and “fraudulent” have been

defined under Regulation 2(1)(c) , which reads as under: And “fraudulent” shall be construed accord-
ingly; Nothing contained in this clause shall apply to
any general comments made in good faith
in regard to— (a) the economic policy of the government 10 (b) the economic situation of the country (c) trends in the securities market; (d) any other matter of a like nature

 whether such comments are made in public
 or in private; (e) “securities” means securities as defined
 in section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regu-
 lation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956).” 15. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock

brokers and Sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 in Schedule II

deals with the code of conduct for stockbrokers which reads

as follows: tain high standards of integrity, prompti- tude and fairness in the conduct of all his
business. (2) Exercise of due skill and care : A
stock-broker shall act with due skill, care
and diligence in the conduct of all his busi- ness. (3) Manipulation : A stock-broker shall
not indulge in manipulative, fraudulent or
deceptive transactions or schemes or
spread rumours with a view to distorting
market equilibrium or making personal
gains. (4) Malpractices: A stock-broker shall not
create false market either singly or in con- cert with others or indulge in any act detri- mental to the investors interest or which
leads to interference with the fair and
smooth functioning of the market. A stock- broker shall not involve himself in exces- sive speculative business in the market be- yond reasonable levels not commensurate
with his financial soundness. (5) Compliance with statutory require- ments: A stock-broker shall abide by all
the provisions of the Act and the rules,
regulations issued by the Government, the
Board and the Stock Exchange from time
to time as may be applicable to him.” 12 16. As the facts pertain to transactions involving certain

technical terms, we will have to necessarily deal with their

meaning and content. 17. Derivatives – Derivatives are a form of financial

instruments which are traded in the securities market and

whose values are derived from the value of the underlying

variables like the share price of a particular scrip in the cash

segment of the market or the stock index of a portfolio of

stocks. Derivative trading is governed by Section 18A of the

1956 Act. There are two types of derivative instruments -

‘futures’ and ‘options’. In futures and options, the trading can

either be of individual stocks or of indices like NIFTY, Bank

NIFTY etc. 18. Futures - a future contract is an agreement between two

parties to buy or sell an asset at a certain time in the future at

a certain price agreed upon on the date of the contract. All

the futures contracts are settled in cash. 19. Options – options are contracts between a buyer and the

seller which gives a right, but not an obligation, to buy or sell

the underlying asset at a stated price on or before a specified

date. While a buyer of an option pays the premium and buys 13 his right to exercise his option, the writer of an option is the

one who receives the option premium and is therefore obliged

to sell or buy the asset as per the option exercised by the

buyer. Options are of two types, ‘Call’ and ‘Put’. Call Option gives the

buyer the right but not the obligation to buy a given quantity

of the underlying asset at a given price on or before a given

future date. Put Option gives the buyer the right, but not

obligation to sell a given quantity of underlying asset at a

given price on or before a given future date. 20. The impugned SAT order in the case of Rakhi Trading has

succinctly dealt with the working of options: 21. Index - a stock market index is a measure of the relative

value of a group of stocks in numerical terms. As the stocks

within an index change value, the index value changes. NIFTY

50 is an index on National Stock Exchange which tracks the

behaviour of 50 companies covering different sectors of the

Indian economy. 22. Trading in Index – an investor can trade even the entire

stock market by buying index futures instead of buying

individual securities. The advantages of trading in index

futures are- the contracts are highly liquid, the index futures

provide higher leverage than any other stocks, it requires 16 comparatively low initial capital investment (only the

premium), it has lower risk than buying and holding stocks, it

is just as easy to trade the short side as the long side, the

trader needs to study only one index instead of several stocks

and finally, the contracts are settled in cash in the stock

exchange and therefore, all problems related to bad delivery,

fake or forged certificate etc. can be avoided. 1 23. The case at hand deals, inter alia, with questions related

to synchronised trading. The concept of synchronised trading

has been explained by SAT in Ketan Parekh v. Securities

and Exchange Board of India2 . To quote: 24. As mentioned before, this case involves three traders

and three brokers. Traders: Tungarli: The SCN was issued to Tungarli on

05.10.2007. The allegation in the SCN was that through these

synchronized transactions, one party booked profits and the

other party booked losses. The trades pertained to future

scrips. The A.O.’s order notes that the trades were reversed in

all the cases in a matter of few seconds showing significant

difference between the buy and sell trade prices. The change

in positions took place without any significant

change/negligible change in the price of the underlying

security. The trades took place on 12.03.2007, 15.03.2007,

23.03.2007, 26.03.2007 and 28.03.2007 and the total profit

made by Tungarli was Rs 64.52 lakhs. TLB: The SCN was issued to TLB on 05.10.2007. The

trades pertained to future scrips. As per the A.O.’s order, TLB

traded through stock broker SMC Global Securities Ltd and

the same broker is the counter party broker as well, trading

on behalf of different clients. All the transactions undertaken 19 by TLB resulted in loss to TLB and the total loss was Rs.38.69

lakhs. The trades in question took place on 22.01.2007,

23.01.2007, 31.01.2007, 01.02.2007, 05.02.2007 and

06.02.2007. The A.O.’s order notes that in many cases, the

trades were reversed in a matter of minutes showing

significant difference in prices without any significant change

in value of the underlying. The A.O.’s order notes that during

investigation, it was also seen that when the time was not

matched by the respective parties, the first order that was

placed was at an unattractive price relative to the market

price. Brokers: otherwise the trades would not have matched
 repeatedly to the exact second in the NIFTY
 Contracts which is the most active contract in
 the options segment. Hence it overrides the
 noticee’s submission that no material or data
 has been disclosed to substantiate the said
 allegation of “synchronization” of any trades. 23. On analysis of the reversal transactions
 undertaken by the noticee, it is seen that the
 percentage to market gross is in the range of
 30 percent to 50 percent in the 14 contracts
 executed by the noticee. In two contracts of
 NIFTY, the percentage to market gross
 reached 50 percent. This accounts for a
 significant percentage of trades on the
 concerned days and the traded value was
 Rs.95.75 lakhs for those two reversal trades.
 The trade quantities are also high. The total
 traded value is Rs.503.00 lakh in a matter of
 just 4 (four) trading days. As submitted by the
 noticee, NIFTY moves constantly. Also, NIFTY is
 the most active of the options contracts 22 traded on the exchange and it has contributed
to 92.21 percent of the contracts traded in the
Options segment during March 2007. Further,
the NIFTY options contracts contributed to
99.97 percent of the total Index Options
contracts traded in March 2007 (source: NSE
website). In such a scenario it is seen that the
noticee’s counter party to all the trades in
NIFTY contracts is Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. (trading through the broker Vibrant Securities
Private Limited), this clearly gives an
indication to the existence of a
pre-arrangement/synchronization / matched
trades between the clients. Otherwise it does
seem unrealistic that the orders should match
exactly both quantity and price wise, just as a
matter of coincidence, with the same party
again and again. It is clear that there was an
intention of creating a false or misleading
appearance in the market and also that a
manipulative /deceptive device was used for
synchronization of trades. 24. The trades executed by the noticee in all
NIFTY contracts, matched with the counter
party client, Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. in less
than a few seconds. It is pertinent to note here
that the noticee executed all the reversal
trades in a matter of minutes/hours, at a profit
of Rs.107.79 lakh without any significant
change in the value of the underlying security.
This raises doubts about the genuineness of
the transactions. The fact that such
transactions took place repeatedly over a
period of time reinstates the fraudulent nature
of such trades.” 23 Thus, according to the A.O. a manipulative/deceptive

devise was used for synchronization of trades and the trades

were fraudulent/fictitious in nature. It was found that there is

violation of Regulations 3(a), (b) and (c) and 4(1), (2)(a) and (b) of the PFUTP Regulations, 2003. Consequently, a penalty

of Rs.1,08,00,000/- was imposed under Section 15HA of the

SEBI Act, 1992. Appeal was filed under Section 15T before the

SAT. An appeal was disposed of by order dated 11.10.2010

whereby SAT set aside the order of SEBI. The detailed

consideration is available at paragraphs 5 to 8 of the SAT

order in Rakhi Trading, which read as follows: Derivative segment is highly volatile and
involves a complexed form of trading with high
risks and the players in this segment do not
follow the herd mentality as is often noticed in
the cash segment but take decisions based on
their own perception of the market. The
number of persons trading in this segment is
comparatively much less than those in the
cash segment. The Board has found that only
14 contracts executed by the appellant in the
options segment constituted 30 to 50 per cent
of the market gross in that segment though
nifty is the most active of the options contracts
traded on the exchange and contributed 92.21
per cent of the trades during March, 2007. This
is indicative of the fact that the number of
players in the options segment is very less. Artificial/fictitious trades in the cash segment
do give a false appearance of active trading in
a particular scrip by increasing volumes which
tend to lure the lay investors to invest in that
scrip. The impression given to the investors is 28 that the scrip is highly liquid and much in
demand and this interferes with the price
discovery mechanism of the exchange and it is
for this reason that such trades are held illegal
in the cash segment. This, however, cannot be
the case in the F & O segment. Since all the
trades are executed through the stock
exchange and settled in cash through its
mechanism they cannot be said to be artificial
trades creating a misleading appearance of
trading in the options. The charge is
misconceived. 7. This brings us to the issue of
synchronization of the buy and sell orders in
the Nifty option contracts executed by the
appellant where the counter party in the 13
impugned transactions was the same entity. Impugned order records that Nifty contracts
which are the most active contracts in the
options segment cannot be traded in the way
the appellant has traded matching its orders to
seconds with the counter party client. This,
according to the adjudicating officer, was a
pre-planned arrangement between the
appellant and its counter party and their
intention was to create a false and misleading
appearance in the market and a manipulative
device was used for synchronizing the trades.
The learned senior counsel appearing for the
appellant did not dispute the fact that the
trades had been synchronized and reversed
but he argued that these did not manipulate
the market and that only the synchronized
trades which manipulate the market are 29 prohibited. He placed reliance on a judgment of
this Tribunal in Ketan Parekh vs. Securities and
Exchange Board of India, Appeal No.2 of 2004
decided on 14.7.2006. He also referred to the
order passed by the Board in the case of ICICI
Brokerage Services Ltd. wherein a similar view
had been taken and strenuously argued that
since the synchronized trades of the appellant
did not manipulate the market, the impugned
order deserves to be set aside. We find merit in
this contention. The fact that the trades
executed by the appellant had been
synchronized with the counter party is not
really in dispute before us. We have already
held that the 13 trades in Nifty options
executed by the appellant had no impact on
the market or affected the investors or the
Nifty index in any manner. In Ketan Parekh’s
case (supra) this Tribunal had observed that
synchronized trades per se are not illegal but
only those which manipulate the market in any
manner are the ones that are prohibited and
violate the Regulations. Relying upon the
observations made by this Tribunal in Nirmal
Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Securities and
Exchange Board of India [2004] 49 SCL 421,
the then chairman of the Board while dealing
with the synchronized trades executed by the
appellant therein observed as under:- 8. When we analyse the nature of the trades
executed by the appellant, we find that it
played in the derivative market neither as a
hedger nor as a speculator and not even as an 32 arbitrageur. The question that now arises is
why did the appellant execute such trades with
the counter party in which it continuously
made profits and the other party booked
continuous losses. All these trades were
transacted in March 2007 at the end of the
financial year 2006-07. It is obvious and, this
fact was not seriously disputed by the learned
senior counsel appearing for the appellant, that
the impugned trades were executed for the
purpose of tax planning. The arrangement
between the parties was that profits and losses
would be booked by each of them for effective
tax planning to ease the burden of tax liability
and it is for this reason that they synchronized
the trades and reversed them. They have
played in the market without violating any rule
of the game. This Tribunal in Viram Investment
Pvt. Ltd. vs. Securities and Exchange Board of
India, Appeal no.160 of 2004 decided on
February 11, 2005 while dealing with a
contention as to whether trades could be
executed through the stock exchange for tax
planning, made the following observations
which are relevant for our purpose:- However, the transactions between the parties were

non-genuine and orchestrated which is prohibited under the

PFUTP Regulations. The Show Cause Notice makes it clear

that the transactions were a misuse of market mechanism as

they were not genuine trades. The non-genuineness of these

transactions is evident from the fact that there was no

commercial basis to suddenly, within a matter of minutes, 41 reverse a transaction when the value of the underlying had

not undergone any significant change. 32. According to SAT, the synchronization and reversal of

trades effected by the parties with a significant price

difference, some in a few seconds and majority, in any case,

on the same day had no impact on the market and it has not

affected the NIFTY index in any manner or induced investors.

SAT has held that such trades are illegal only when they

manipulate the market in any manner and induce investors. It

has also taken a view that there being no physical delivery of

any asset, there is no change of beneficial ownership and

what is traded in the F&O segment are only contracts and

hence, such synchronised and reverse trades in NIFTY

options in the F&O segment “can never manipulate the

market”. It has also held that the trades being settled in cash

through a stock exchange mechanism, are genuine and

therefore cannot create a false or misleading appearance of

trading in the F&O segment. Further, any trade to be

objectionable must result in influencing the market one way

or the other. SAT held that these trades were for the purpose 42 of tax planning which is not violative of any regulation. We are

not inclined to get in to the issue of tax planning as it was not

mentioned in the show cause notices. 33. We find it difficult to appreciate the stand taken by the

SAT which is endorsed by the learned senior counsel

appearing for the respondents. Mr. Chidambaram, learned

senior counsel appearing for Rakhi Trading argues that the

SAT decision is valid and proper. Reliance is also placed on the

case of Ketan Parekh (supra) in which SAT held that

synchronised trades are not per se illegal. As far as reversal of

trades is concerned, the senior counsel has sought to

distinguish Ketan Parekh (supra) as it pertained to dealings

in the cash segment whereas the present case deals with the

F&O segment. The learned senior counsel has strenuously

argued that no rules of the game have been violated. 34. We are unable to agree with the arguments of the

learned senior counsel appearing for Rakhi Trading. Regulation 4(1) in clear and unmistakable terms has provided

that “no person shall indulge in a fraudulent or an unfair trade

practice in securities”. In Securities and Exchange Board

of India and Ors. v. Shri Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel 43 and Ors.3 , it has been held by this Court that a trade practice

is unfair if the conduct undermines the ethical standards and

good faith dealings between the parties engaged in business

transactions. To quote: 35. Having regard to the fact that the dealings in the stock

exchange are governed by the principles of fair play and

transparency, one does not have to labour much on the

meaning of unfair trade practices in securities. Contextually

and in simple words, it means a practice which does not

conform to the fair and transparent principles of trades in the

stock market. In the instant case, one party booked gains and

the other party booked a loss. Nobody intentionally trades for

loss. An intentional trading for loss per se, is not a genuine

dealing in securities. The platform of the stock exchange has

been used for a non-genuine trade. Trading is always with the

aim to make profits. But if one party consistently makes loss

and that too in preplanned and rapid reverse trades, it is not 45 genuine; it is an unfair trade practice. Securities market, as

the 1956 Act provides in the preamble, does not permit

“undesirable transactions in securities”. The Act intends to

prevent undesirable transactions in securities by regulating

the business of dealing therein. Undesirable transactions

would certainly include unfair practices in trade. The SEBI Act,

1992 was enacted to protect the interest of the investors in

securities. Protection of interest of investors should

necessarily include prevention of misuse of the market.

Orchestrated trades are a misuse of the market mechanism. It

is playing the market and it affects the market integrity. 36. Ordinarily, the trading would have taken place between

anonymous parties and the price would have been

determined by the market forces of demand and supply. In

the instant case, the parties did not stop at synchronised

trading. The facts go beyond that. The trade reversals in this

case indicate that the parties did not intend to transfer

beneficial ownership and through these orchestrated

transactions, the intention of which was not regular trading,

other investors have been excluded from participating in 46 these trades. The fact that when the trade was not

synchronizing, the traders placed it at unattractive prices is

also a strong indication that the traders intended to play with

the market. 37. We also find it difficult to appreciate the stand of SAT

that the rationale of change of beneficial ownership does not

arise in the derivatives segment. No doubt, as in the case of

trade in a scrip in the cash segment, there is no physical

delivery of the asset. However, even in the derivative

segment there is a change of rights in a contract. In the

instant case, through reverse trades, there was no genuine

change of rights in the contract. SAT has erred in its

understanding of change in beneficial ownership in reverse

trades. Even in derivatives, the ownership of the right is

restored to the first party when the reverse trade occurs. In

this context, the discussion in Ketan Parekh (supra)

assumes significance: “20. …As already observed
 ‘synchronisation’ or a negotiated deal ipso
 facto is not illegal. A synchronised transaction
 will, however, be illegal or violative of the
 Regulations if it is executed with a view to
 manipulate the market or if it results in
 circular trading or is dubious in nature and is 47 executed with a view to avoid regulatory
 detection or does not involve change of
 beneficial ownership or is executed to create
 false volumes resulting in upsetting the
 market equilibrium. Any transaction executed
 with the intention to defeat the market
 mechanism whether negotiated or not would
 be illegal. Whether a transaction has been
 executed with the intention to manipulate the
 market or defeat its mechanism will depend
 upon the intention of the parties which could
 be inferred from the attending circumstances
 because direct evidence in such cases may
 not be available. The nature of the transaction
 executed, the frequency with which such
 transactions are undertaken, the value of the
 transactions, whether they involve circular
 trading and whether there is real change of
 beneficial ownership, the conditions then
 prevailing in the market are some of the
 factors which go to show the intention of the
 parties. This list of factors, in the very nature
 of things, cannot be exhaustive. Any one
 factor may or may not be decisive and it is
 from the cumulative effect of these that an
 inference will have to be drawn.”
 (Emphasis Supplied)

 From the facts before us, it is clear that the traders in

question did not intend to transfer beneficial ownership and

therefore these trades are non genuine. 38. Rather than allowing the market forces to operate in

their natural course, the traders repeatedly carried out the 48 impugned transactions which deprived other market players

from full participation. The repeated reversals and

predetermined arrangement to book profits and losses

respectively, made it clear that the parties were not trading in

the normal sense and ordinary course. Resultantly, there has

clearly been a restriction on the free and fair operation of

market forces in the instant case. 39. Regulation 2(1)(c) defines fraud. Under Regulation 2(1) (c)(2) a suggestion as to a fact which is not true while he

does not believe it to be true is fraud. Under Regulation 2(1) (c)(7), a deceptive behaviour of one depriving another of

informed consent or full participation is fraud. And under Regulation 2(1)(c)(8) , a false statement without any

reasonable ground for believing it to be true is also fraud. In a

synchronised and reverse dealing in securities, with

predetermined arrangement to book loss or gain between

pre-arranged parties, all these vices are attracted. 40. Regulation 3(a) expressly prohibits buying, selling or

otherwise dealing in securities in a fraudulent manner. Under Regulation 4(2) dealing in securities shall be deemed to be

fraudulent if the trader indulges in an act which creates a 49 false or misleading appearance of trading in the securities

market. It is a deeming provision. Such trading also involves

an act amounting to manipulation of the price of the security

in the sense that the price has been artificially and apparently

prefixed. The price does not at all reflect the value of the

underlying asset. It is also a transaction in securities entered

into without any intention of performing it and without any

intention of effecting a change of ownership of such

securities, ownership being understood in the limited sense of

the rights in the contract. 41. According to SAT, only if there is market impact on

account of sham transactions, could there be violation of the

PFUTP Regulations. We find it extremely difficult to agree with

the proposition. As already noted above, SAT has missed the

crucial factors affecting the market integrity, which may be

direct or indirect. The stock market is not a platform for any

fraudulent or unfair trade practice. The field is open to all the

investors. By synchronization and rapid reverse trade, as has

been carried out by the traders in the instant case, the price

discovery system itself is affected. Except the parties who 50 have pre-fixed the price nobody is in the position to

participate in the trade. It also has an adverse impact on the

fairness, integrity and transparency of the stock market. 42. We are fortified in our conclusion by the judgment of this

Court in Securities And Exchange Board of India v.

Kishore R. Ajmera4 , though it is a case pertaining to

brokers, wherein it has been held at paragraph 25: 43. The traders thus having engaged in a fraudulent and

unfair trade practice while dealing in securities, are hence

liable to be proceeded against for violation of Regulations

3(a), 4(1) and 4(2)(a) of PFUTP Regulations. Appeal

Nos.1969/2011, 3175/2011 and 3180/2011 are hence

allowed. The orders of the Securities Appellate Tribunal are

set aside and that of the SEBI are restored to the extent

indicated above. 44. As far as brokers are concerned, we are of the view that

there is hardly any evidence on their involvement so as to 52 proceed against them for violation of Regulation 7A of the

Brokers Regulations and PFUTP Regulations. Merely because a

broker facilitated a transaction, it cannot be said that there is

violation of the Regulation. SEBI has not provided any

material to suggest negligence or connivance on the part of

the brokers. As held by this Court in Kishore R. Ajmera (supra), there are several factors to be considered. We would

especially like to refer to the case of Angel Trading wherein

the broker repeatedly wrote to the National Stock Exchange

informing them about trades in the options segment that

were executed at unrealistic prices and requesting them to

put in mechanisms in the Options segment so that these

trades are not allowed to enter the system. In the absence of

any material provided by SEBI to prove the charges against

the brokers, particularly regarding aiding and abetting

fraudulent or unfair trade practices, we are of the opinion that

the orders of SEBI against the brokers should be interfered

with. Accordingly, the appeals filed against the brokers are

dismissed. 53 45. Before concluding, we would like to reiterate the

observations made by this Court in Kishore R. Ajmera (supra) and Kanaiyalal Patel (supra) regarding the need

for a more comprehensive legal framework governing the

securities market. As the market grows, ingenuous means of

manipulation are also employed. In such a scenario, it is

essential that SEBI keeps up with changing times and

develops principles for good governance in the stock market

which ensure free and fair trading. 46. There shall be no order as to costs. .......................J.
 (KURIAN JOSEPH)

New Delhi; February 8, 2018. 54 REPORTABLE
 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1969 OF 2011

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA ….APPELLANT(S)

 VERSUS

 RAKHI TRADING PRIVATE LTD. ....RESPONDENT(S)

 WITH

 CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 3174-3177 OF 2011

 AND
 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3180 OF 2011

 JUDGMENT

R. BANUMATHI, J. I have gone through the judgment proposed by His Lordship

Justice Kurian Joseph. I am in agreement with the conclusion arrived

at by His Lordship. However, in view of the importance of the issues

involved, I prefer to give my own additional reasonings also for my

concurrence. 2. Since the issues involved in all the appeals are one and the

same, appeals filed by SEBI pertaining to the traders and the brokers

were heard together. For convenience and reference on facts, I have 55 taken up the appeal arising out of Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. as the lead

case. 3. Brief facts of the case are that in 2007, SEBI had examined the

nature of transactions occurring in the derivative segment of the capital

market. Upon examination of the trading data of the Future and Option

Segment (herein after referred as "F & O Segment") on the NSE for

the period January to March, 2007, it was observed that the brokers at

NSE were buying and selling almost equal quantities of contracts

within the day. Moreover, it was noticed that such buy/sell orders were

synchronized [Synchronized trade is one where buy and sell orders

are placed simultaneously for the same volume]. In most of the cases,

the same quantity and in few cases, substantially the same quantity of

the original trade was closed out during the day at a price which was

significantly above or below the price at which the first/original

transaction was executed without significant variations in the traded

price of the underlying security. After preliminary examination into the

trading of F&O contracts, SEBI identified that certain entities including

the respondent-Rakhi Trading operating in the derivative segment had

executed fictitious and non-genuine trades. Exercising its powers

under Section 19 read with Section 11B and 11D of the Securities and 56 Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , (for short ' SEBI Act, 1992 ') the

Whole Time Member of the Board had passed an ex parte order

directing the respondent and other entities to cease and desist from

indulging in the violations till further orders as they were found

indulging in non-genuine transactions. 4. Meanwhile, in terms of provisions of Rule 4(1) of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India Rules, 1995, the Board issued a show

cause notice to the respondent on 05.10.2007 alleging that the

respondent executed synchronized/matched/reversal trades and

indulged in non-genuine transactions with certain clients/stock brokers

during the period of examination in the F & O Segment by enclosing a

report showing fourteen Options Contracts executed by it in F & O

Segment between 21st March to 30th March, 2007 with a total close out

difference (COD) of Rs. 1,15,79,312.15/- i.e. net profit of Rs. 115.79

lakhs, thereby violating Regulations 3(a), 4(1) and 4(2)(a) of SEBI

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 (for short "PFUTP Regulations").

On the show cause notice, the respondent, inter alia, contended that

the impugned transactions were genuine trades, traded on the screen

in anonymity in compliance with the rules and regulations of the 57 exchange for trading in Options Segment and the said transactions in

no manner undermined price discovery or influenced the market. 5. Upon consideration of the findings in the preliminary enquiry and

submissions of the respondent, the Adjudicating Officer found that

most of the trades i.e. buying and selling of contracts within a gap of

few seconds between the same parties through same set of brokers

matched and found that it is unrealistic that the orders would match

exactly both the quantity and price and with the same party again and

again. The Adjudicating Officer further held that manipulative device

was used for synchronization of trades and the trades were

fraudulent/fictitious in nature. After referring to SAT's judgment in Ketan Parekh v. SEBI (Appeal No. 2 of 2004) and other judgments, the

Adjudicating Officer found that the respondent has executed

synchronized/reversal trades, in violation of PFUTP Regulations, 2003

and imposed a penalty of Rs.1,08,00,000/- on the respondent in terms

of the provisions of Section 15HA of SEBI Act, 1992. 6. On appeal by the respondent, Securities Appellate Tribunal

(SAT) set aside the order of the Adjudicating Officer and held that

NIFTY is a large well diversified index of stocks which is not capable of

being influenced. SAT further held that the thirteen trades in the 58 NIFTY options executed by the respondent had no impact on the

market and those transactions did not influence the NIFTY index in

any manner. SAT held that the impugned transactions do not become

illegal merely because they were executed for tax planning as they did

not influence the market. Holding that there has been no violation of

any regulation of SEBI, SAT set aside the order of the Adjudicating

Officer. Being aggrieved, SEBI has preferred this statutory appeal

under Section 15Z of SEBI Act, 1992. RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE SEBI ACT AND THE REGULATIONS 7. Section 12-A contained in Chapter V-A of the SEBI Act, 1992 deals with “Prohibition of manipulative and deceptive devices, insider

trading and substantial acquisition of securities or control” and reads

as follows: 8. Section 30 of the SEBI Act reads as follows:- ........... 9. Section 15HA of the Act which deals with penalty for fraudulent

and unfair trade practices, Section 15HB which deals with penalty for

contravention where no separate penalty has been provided and Section 15J which lays down the factors to be taken into account while

adjudging the quantum of penalty read as follows: 60 10. Section 12A has to be read along with the provisions of the

PFUTP Regulations, 2003, SEBI (Stockbrokers and Sub-Brokers)

Regulations, 1992 and the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. Regulation 3 of the PFUTP Regulations, 2003 deals with "Prohibition of certain

dealings in securities". Regulation 4 deals with "Prohibition of

manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices". Regulation 2 (1)(c) defines "fraud". For relevant Capital Market Terms, I have made

reference to SEBI Act and K. Sekar's Guide to SEBI, Capital Issues,

Debentures & Listing, Lexis Nexis fourth Edition 2017 and Economics 61 of Derivatives by Cambridge University Press by T.V. Somanathan and

 V. Anantha Nageswaran. To avoid repetition, I refrain from referring to

 the explanation of the relevant Capital Market Terms. 11. Re-Contention: The impugned trades were normal transactions

 traded on the system and not fictitious transactions:- Contention of

 the respondent is that the impugned trades were normal transactions

 traded on the system maintaining complete anonymity and the trades

 were not illegal and the respondent has not violated the provisions of

 SEBI Regulations. Respondent-Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. contended that

 the trading was done on automated screen based trading and it was

 not possible for them to know who the counter party was and

 therefore, the synchronization of trade was a mere coincidence. Per

 contra, SEBI maintained that the respondent-Rakhi Trading and the

 counter party-Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. had prior understanding and

 have thwarted the checks and balances of the trading system by

 executing non-genuine transactions with ulterior purpose. 12. To appreciate the contentious issues raised by the parties, I refer

 to the impugned reversal trade transactions: 13. Synchronized Trading: As per the Oxford dictionary the word

 'synchronize' means "cause to occur at the same time; be

 simultaneous". A synchronized trade is one where the buyer and seller

 enter the quantity and price of the shares they wish to transact at

 substantially the same time. This could be done through the same

 broker (termed a cross deal) or through two different brokers. [ Ketan

 Parekh v. SEBI , Manu/SB/0229/2006] 14. Synchronized trade is one wherein 'buy and sell' orders are

 placed simultaneously for the same quantity and price they wish to

 transact at substantially the same time. Synchronized trades are not

 illegal provided that they are executed on the screens of the exchange

 in the price and order matching mechanism of the exchanges just like

 any other normal trade. As per SEBI's circular No.SMDRP/

 POLICY/CIR-32/99 dated 14.09.1999, "All negotiated deals...... shall

 be executed only on the screens of the exchanges in the price and

 order matching mechanism of the exchanges just like any other 64 normal trade.". In the said circular, it was stated that "The above

decision was taken as negotiated deals avoid transparency

requirements, do not contribute to price discovery and some investors

do not have benefit of the best possible price and militate against the

basic concept of stock exchanges, which are meant to bring together a

large number of buyers and sellers in an open manner.". (Reference: 15. In Ketan Parekh v. SEBI Manu/SB/0229/2006, the Securities

Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has considered the circumstances under

which "Synchronized trade" will be legal and held as under: 16. A synchronized transaction will become illegal or violative of the

Regulations if it is executed with a view to manipulate the market or if it

results in circular trading or is dubious in nature and with a view to

manipulate the price or volume of the scrip or with some ulterior

purpose. In Ketan Parekh case, SAT held as under: 17. In the present case, all the fourteen transactions (except one)

pertaining to Nifty were synchronized. Be it noted that as pointed out

by SAT in para (7) of its order, the respondent did not dispute the fact 66 that "....trades had been synchronized and reversed....". The

respondent only contended that the impugned "synchronized trade' did

not manipulate the market and that what is prohibited are only the

synchronized trades and that the impugned trades were normal

transactions and the respondent had not violated the provisions of

PFUTP Regulations. In the context of the stand taken by Rakhi

Trading before SAT, it is now not open to respondent Rakhi Trading to

contend that the transactions were not synchronized and reversed. 18. By perusal of details of 'buy and sell', 'volume of trade' and

'timing of trade' of the impugned transactions, it was observed that the

reversal trades were executed almost of the same quantity and the

trade was also within a short gap of few seconds with significant

variation of the price, though, there was no major variation in the

underlying price during that period. Upon examination of the trade

transactions, it was further observed that the respondent in the

impugned transactions had operated through Prashant Jayantilal Patel

as its broker and the counter party Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd., which

executed those transactions through Vibrant Securities Pvt. Ltd. as its

broker. As pointed out in the tabular column, all reversed/closed out

transactions were executed at prices with significant variation within a 67 short period though there was no major variation in the underlying

price during that period. 19. For instance, let us refer to one of the impugned reversal trades.

On 21.03.2007 at 14:50:27, NIFTY 50 (Strike Price 3930) Options

(Trade volume 10,000) was sold within a second at 14:50:28 at Trade

Price of Rs.270/-. Within a short gap of time, at 15:06:42, the same

NIFTY 50 (Trade Volume 10,000) (Strike Price 3930) was bought by

the respondent within three seconds at Trade Price of Rs.110/- and the

price difference of two legs of the trade being Rs.160/- with COD

Rs.16,00,000/-. The percentage of the gross of the trade on that day

was 40.82%. As seen from the chart, the other reversal trade

transactions were also almost similar within a gap of few seconds,

between 'buy' and 'sell' order, with significant price variation, though no

major price variation in the underlying price. During examination of

those transactions, the Whole Time Member observed that the

synchronized transactions had a definite objective of enabling one

party (Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd.) to book profits and the other party

(Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd.) to book losses in the close out difference.

Thirteen Options Contracts executed by respondent-Rakhi Trading in

the F & O Segment between March 21 and March 30, 2007 with a total 68 Close Out Difference (COD) of Rs.1,15,79,312.15 (Positive) showing a

net profit of Rs.115.79 lakhs to Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. and loss to the

counter party i.e. Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. 20. The question whether there was fictitious transactions creating

illegal synchronization has to be gathered from the facts and

circumstances and intention of the parties. Acting in concert is

something about which it is difficult to obtain direct evidence. Proof of

manipulation might depend upon inferences drawn from factual details.

Such inferences could be gathered from pattern of trading data and

the nature of the transactions etc. 21. 'By manipulation and synchronization', it is meant that two

parties have pre-meditated; as such a drastic movement in price within

few seconds could have been only through prior understanding

between the parties concerned only to fulfill an unlawful objective

through misuse of the stock exchange. That is, prior arrangement/prior

understanding with each other wherein one will make profit and other

will lose and thereby as soon as one party opens up its trade in the

market, the other party will buy it. Though the trading is shown on the

screen, but prior arrangement is very well possible behind the screen.

This is what has been done in the case in hand. Buy and sell orders 69 were placed at a difference of few seconds/minutes, while 'sell' by

respondent to Kasam Holding at a high price and "buy" by the

respondent from Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. at a low price. The

transactions wherein the 'buy and sell' orders entered almost

simultaneously and the transactions matched in time and quantity with

significant price variation and respondent consistently making profit but

Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. consistently making loss. Number of reversal

trades between the respondent and Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. and such

reversal trade taking place repeatedly over a period of time only

indicates that there was pre-arrangement between the parties before

the trade was executed. The transactions involving only the same two

parties within few seconds with huge difference in 'buy and sell' value,

though there is no difference in the underlying security, can take place

only with prior understanding between the two parties. The Board who

is the regulator of the market, can always lift the veil of such

transactions to show the non-genuineness of such transactions. 22. Buying and selling of equal quantities within the day may not be

wrong but the trades with ulterior purpose are not genuine for sure. In

the present case, every time one party is making profit and other party

is facing loss. Further, there was proximity in the time of sell orders at 70 a high price to the party-Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. and the same

quantity being reversed by Kasam Holding Pvt. Ltd. to the same

party-Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd. at a low price through the same set of

brokers. As discussed earlier, during March, 2007 thirteen Nifty Option

Contracts got matched between the same parties through the same

brokers. I fail to understand as to why Kasam Holding has made the

transactions repeatedly by incurring losses. It seems improbable that

Kasam Holding which was facing loss in each transaction by trading

with the respondent, was still eager to trade with the same repeatedly

for about four days which is not in consonance with the market trend

and human conduct; more so, when there has not been any major

difference in the underlying price. It is thus difficult to accept that

several such sell and buy orders between the respondent and Kasam

Holding being within a gap of "1", "2" or "3" or few seconds were by

mere coincidence. As contended by the appellant-SEBI, it was too

much of coincidence that there were number of transactions of 'buy

and sell orders' between the same parties with same quantity of stock

with significant variation in price. 71 23. Insofar as synchronized trade involving same set of brokers and

meeting of minds, in Securities and Exchange Board of India v.

Kishore R. Ajmera (2016) 6 SCC 368, this Court held as under: 24. In Nirmal Bang Securities Private Ltd. v. The Chairman,

Securities and Exchange Board of India (MANU/SB/0206/2003), SAT applied the test of price, quantity and time to hold that synchronized

trading in that case was violative of norms of trading in securities and

held as under:- 25. In the quasi-judicial proceeding before SEBI, the standard of

proof is preponderance of probability. In a case of similar synchronized

trading involving same set of brokers emphasizing that the standard of

proof is "preponderance of probability" in paras (26) and (27), in Kishore R. Ajmera case, this Court held as under:- "26. It is a fundamental principle of law that proof of an allegation
 levelled against a person may be in the form of direct substantive
 evidence or, as in many cases, such proof may have to be inferred
 by a logical process of reasoning from the totality of the attending
 facts and circumstances surrounding the allegations/charges made
 and levelled. While direct evidence is a more certain basis to come
 to a conclusion, yet, in the absence thereof the Courts cannot be
 helpless. It is the judicial duty to take note of the immediate and
 proximate facts and circumstances surrounding the events on
 which the charges/allegations are founded and to reach what would
 appear to the Court to be a reasonable conclusion therefrom. The
 test would always be that what inferential process that a
 reasonable/prudent man would adopt to arrive at a conclusion."
 [underlining added] 74 26. There was no possibility of such perfect matching of quantity,

timing, prices etc. between the same parties unless there was prior

meeting of minds or a specific understanding/arrangement between

the parties. After referring to Ketan Parekh and Nirmal Bang cases, in SEBI v. Accord Capital Markets Ltd. (MANU/SB/0136/2007), SEBI held

as under:- 4.25 Presumption plays a critical role in coming to a finding as to
 the involvement or otherwise of a market participant in any
 manipulation. For instance, while trading, a lip service can be paid
 to a screen based trading system while agreement is reached
 beforehand between brokers to effect the transaction. Anonymity
 can be a cloak to cover anastomosis of interest. Therefore, the
 hackneyed plea based on intentions in the market place cannot
 pass muster in all circumstances, more so when such intentions are
 in the special/peculiar knowledge of the parties to the transactions.
 Also any suggestion attributing innocence to the parties involved in
 such transactions would give rise to an untenable situation where
 certain other third persons/entities alone would be responsible for
 the manipulation and none else." 27. Applying the test laid down in Kishore R. Ajmera case to the

present case, I find that by cumulative analysis of the reversal

transactions between respondent and Kasam Holding, quantity, time

and significant variation of prices, without major variation in the

underlying price of the securities clearly indicate that the respondent's

trades are not genuine and had only misleading appearance of trading

in the securities market, without intending to transfer beneficial

ownership. 76 28. Contention of the appellant is that if the market starts moving or

there is a change in the perception of the market and the anticipated

future performance thereof, then the seller often gets very

apprehensive and may even panic, anticipating a substantial loss and

would want to square off his position to restrict a loss. I find no merit in

this contention. Insofar as the impugned transactions are concerned,

it is seen that the market of underlying shares had remained unmoved

altogether, then there was no question of getting panic. When there

were no other transactions in the market affecting the price of the

underlying shares or F & O Segment and the price in both the

segments had remained static, then there was no reasonable ground

to get apprehensive and panic. Therefore, squaring off the position

appears to adjust the financial results with a view to avoid the tax

incidence through an unfair trade practice or for some ulterior purpose. 29. On behalf of respondent, learned senior counsel Mr. P.

Chidambaram contended that securities like Nifty are vast pools and

Nifty has a dynamic index which evolves continuously and it is too

difficult for a manipulator to affect such prices. Further contention of

the respondent is that whether the impugned trades are synchronized 77 or not had no impact on the market and the respondent cannot be held

to have violated regulations. 30. On behalf of the respondent-Tungarli Tradeplace Pvt. Ltd., Mr.

Mehta learned counsel submitted that a person can be found to have

violated Regulations 3 and 4, he should have indulged in some

fraudulent practice with an intention to manipulate the securities

market and has drawn our attention to Regulation 2(c) of the SEBI

Regulations, 2003 in which 'fraud' has been defined. Learned counsel

submitted that for a person to be held liable for breach of the above

mentioned Regulations, SEBI has to establish the following:- (i) that

the party entered into the transactions with the intention to manipulate

the market; and (ii) that there is evidence that the market was in fact

manipulated. 31. Per contra, learned senior counsel for SEBI contended that SAT

had misconstrued the charge that the impugned synchronized trades

had no effect of manipulating the Nifty index and SAT was not right in

holding that only those synchronized transactions which have the

effect of manipulating the market are undesirable and prohibited. It

was contended that it was never the case of SEBI that Nifty was being

manipulated by the impugned trade executed by the respondent and 78 findings of SAT are not sustainable in law and would have serious

repercussion on the market integrity. 32. The respondent has made the transactions repeatedly by

incurring losses, particularly when there were no transactions made by

any third party in the market. Abnormal difference between the prices

at which the trades were executed without corresponding effect on the

price of the underlying security, shows that the option in which the

party traded was not in demand in the market. It is unusual that the

trades were transacted with such huge profits when there was no

change in the underlying prices. These trade transactions obviously

only aimed at carrying out manipulative objective. 33. Once the reversal transactions are shown to be non-genuine or

shown to be fictitious creating a false or misleading appearance in the

market for ulterior purpose and that the stock market was misused by

such manipulative device, this is in clear violation of the provisions of

PFUTP Regulations, 2003. Regulations 3(a), 4(1) and 4(2)(a) of

PFUTP Regulations prohibit such manipulative trades, unfair trade

practices. 34. SAT mainly proceeded that the impugned reversal trade

transactions had no impact on the market and it could have never 79 influenced the Nifty. After extracting the show cause notice, SAT, inter

alia, recorded the findings:- (i) The insinuation is that by executing

manipulative trades in the F & O segment, Nifty was sought to be

tampered with; (ii) It is a common case of the parties that the

appellant-Rakhi Trading traded only thirteen Nifty option contracts in

the F & O Segment; assuming these trades were manipulative, they

could have never influenced the Nifty; Nifty which consists of fifty well

diversified highly liquid stocks in the cash segment is a very large well

diversified index of stocks which is not capable of being influenced

much less manipulated by the movement of prices; and (iii) thirteen

impugned trades in Nifty options executed by the appellant had no

impact on the market or affected the investors in any way nor did they

influence the Nifty in any manner. 35. Regulation 3 deals with "Prohibition of certain dealings in

securities". Regulation 4 deals with " Prohibition of manipulative,

fraudulent and unfair trade practices". Regulation 4 starts as "Without

prejudice to the provisions of Regulation 3 .....". Regulation 4(2) is an

inclusive provision. Regulation 4(2) stipulates that "Dealing in

securities shall be deemed to be a fraudulent or an unfair trade

practice if it involves fraud and may include all or any of the.....", 80 instances pointed out thereon. Regulation 4(2)(a) deals with ".....an

act which creates false or misleading appearance of trading in the

securities market". An act to fall within Regulation 4(2)(a) , it is not

necessary that the transactions entered into by the party was with

intention to manipulate the market and that the market was in fact

manipulated. Market manipulation is a deliberate attempt to interfere

with the free and fair operation of the market and create artificial, false

or misleading appearances with respect to the price, market, product,

security and currency. 36. Respondent-Rakhi Trading and Kasam Holding on facts are

found to have been engaged in non-genuine transactions creating

appearance of trading. If the factum of manipulation is established, it

will necessarily follow that the investors in the market have been

induced to buy or sell and that no further proof in this regard is

required. The market, as already observed, is so widespread that it

may not be humanly possible for the Board to track the persons who

were actually induced to buy or sell securities as a result of

manipulation and the Board cannot be imposed with a burden which is

impossible to be discharged. 81 37. In the context of 1995 Regulations, old Regulation 4(2)(a) , SAT,

observing that if the factum of manipulation is established, it will

necessarily follow that the investors in the market had been induced to

buy and sell and no further proof is required in this regard, in Ketan

Parekh 's case (supra), held as under:- 38. The smooth operation of the securities market and its healthy

growth and development depends upon large extent on the quality and

integrity of the market. Unfair trade practices affect the integrity and 82 efficiency of the securities market and the confidence of the investors.

Prevention of market abuse and preservation of market integrity are

the hallmark of securities law. In N. Narayanan v. Adjudicating Officer,

Securities and Exchange Board of India (2013) 12 SCC 152, it was

held as under:- 39. In an interview, Lawrence E. Harris, a former chief economist at

the Securities and Exchange Commission and now a Finance

Professor at the University of Southern California, has stated that the

difficulty in proving manipulation is probably an inherent feature of 83 modern markets. "Because the markets are so complex", he said,

".....It is relatively easy for traders engaged in manipulation to offer

alternative explanations for their behaviour that would make it difficult

to successfully prosecute them". Professor Harris nonetheless said

"when presented with the data suggesting manipulation by firm

proprietary traders, it is reasonable to expect that the S.E.C. would

consider investigation of the matter further". The S.E.C. had no

comment on the researchers' study. [ Ref.:www.nytimes.com/2006/

05/07/business/yourmoney/07stra.html] 40. Stock market is regulated mainly by SEBI and to some extent by

the Departments of Economic Affairs and Company Affairs of

Government of India. Market manipulation can occur in a variety of

ways. Manipulations/unfair trade practices reduce the market efficacy. Section 11 of the SEBI Act, 1992 provides for the functions of the

Board, as per which it shall be the duty of the Board to protect the

interests of the investors in securities and to promote the development

and to regulate the securities market by such measures as it thinks fit.

Main function of SEBI in this regard is to make inquiry, investigation

and to give directions, to promote the orderly and healthy growth of the

securities market. With a view to curb unfair trade practices, market 84 manipulation, price rigging and other frauds in securities market, SEBI

is empowered to make inquiries and inspection. 41. Section 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Regulations 3 and 4

of the PFUTP Regulations, 2003 are essentially intended to preserve

'market integrity' and to prevent 'market abuse'. The object of the SEBI

Act is to protect the interest of the investors in securities and to

promote the development and to regulate the securities market so as

to promote orderly, healthy growth of securities market and to promote

investor's protection. N. Narayanan case arose in connection with

violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act as well as the relevant

provisions of PFUTP Regulations, 2003. In N. Narayanan 's case, it was

found that the financial results of the company as disclosed to the

stock exchanges were inflated and the manipulation in financial results

of the company resulted in price rise of the scrip of the company and

that they did not represent the true state of affairs of the company and

which has enabled certain shareholders to raise financing of pledging

of shares. The director of the company was restrained in dealing with

the securities for a period of two years and also monetary penalty was

imposed on the appellant thereon which was affirmed by this Court.

The Supreme Court observed that message should go that our country 85 will not tolerate 'market abuse' and that the securities market abuse

and that fraud, deceit artificiality, have no place in the securities market

of the country and held as under: 42. SEBI, the market regulator, has to deal sternly with companies
 and their Directors indulging in manipulative and deceptive devices,
 insider trading, etc. or else they will be failing in their duty to
 promote orderly and healthy growth of the securities market.
 Economic offence, people of this country should know, is a serious
 crime which, if not properly dealt with, as it should be, will affect not
 only the country’s economic growth, but also slow the inflow of
 foreign investment by genuine investors and also cast a slur on
 India’s securities market. Message should go that our country will
 not tolerate “market abuse” and that we are governed by the “rule
 of law”. Fraud, deceit, artificiality, SEBI should ensure, have no
 place in the securities market of this country and “market security”
 is our motto. People with power and money and in management of
 the companies, unfortunately often command more respect in our
 society than the subscribers and investors in their companies.
 Companies are thriving with investors’ contributions but they are a
 divided lot. SEBI has, therefore, a duty to protect investors, 86 individual and collective, against opportunistic behaviour of
 Directors and insiders of the listed companies so as to safeguard
 market’s integrity." [underlining added]
The Supreme Court has also emphasized the duties of print and

electronic media, that they should not mislead the public who are

present and prospective investors, in their forecast on the securities

market. 42. The capital market regulator, SEBI has a significant role to play

in safeguarding the interest of investors and to ensure strict

compliance of all the relevant SEBI rules and regulations targeting at

safeguarding the interest of small investors. In order to protect the

interests of the investors and the integrity of the markets, as a

regulator, SEBI has to make the market place efficient and clean,

wherein all the participants play their role diligently and professionally

within the four corners of the system, without there being any scope for

market abuse. Where certain unscrupulous elements are trying to

manipulate the market to serve their own interest, it becomes

imperative on the part of SEBI to intervene and to curb further mischief

and to take necessary action to maintain public confidence in the

integrity of the securities market. 87 43. In N. Narayanan 's case, Supreme Court expressed a 'word of

caution' that SEBI-the regulator is to ensure stringent enforcement,

and efficacy of cleanliness of the market place; otherwise SEBI will be

failing in their duty to promote orderly and healthy growth of the

securities market. I am conscious as supervisory functionary/

regulating body, SEBI has the duty and obligation to protect ordinary

genuine investors and SEBI is empowered to do so under the SEBI

Act, 1992 so as to make security market a secure and safe place to

carry on the business in securities. At the same time, under the guise

of supervisory intervention, SEBI cannot affect the development of the

market or market oriented creativity. Intense supervision might distort

the path of securities market development; but SEBI cannot be a silent

spectator to unfair trade practices/manipulative market for some

ulterior purpose like tax evasion etc. To find the right balance between

market forces and Regulatory body's intervention, SEBI has to deal

sternly with those who indulge in manipulative trading and deceptive

devices to misuse the market and at the same time ensuring the

development of the market. 44. Before I conclude, it is necessary to refer to the findings of SAT

on 'tax planning'. SAT held that even assuming that non-genuine 88 synchronized trades have been entered into for the purposes of tax

planning, such trade could be held objectionable only if they have

resulted in influencing the market in one way or other. For its finding

that every person is entitled to arrange his affairs as to avoid taxation,

SAT relied upon Viram Investment Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. Securities and

Exchange Board of India (MANU/SB/0046/2005 ) decided on

11.02.2005. Contention of the respondents is that transactions which

have been entered into with a view to achieve tax planning are not

illegal and respondents placed reliance upon Viram Investment Pvt.

Ltd. case. The learned counsel for SEBI contended that the market

cannot be manipulated by fictitious transactions either for tax planning

or for some ulterior purposes like money laundering etc. 45. No grounds have been raised in the show cause notice alleging

that the impugned fictitious transactions have been entered into with a

view to avoid payment of tax and was an act of tax planning.

Adjudicating officer also has not gone into this aspect. Hence, I am not

inclined to go into this aspect, whether the impugned transactions

were intended to reduce the brunt of taxation and an act of tax

planning. The correctness of findings of SAT in the case of Viram

Investment Pvt. Ltd. is left open. 89 Conclusion:- 46. Considering the reversal transactions, quantity, price and time

and sale, parties being persistent in number of such trade transactions

with huge price variations, it will be too naïve to hold that the

transactions are through screen-based trading and hence anonymous.

Such conclusion would be over-looking the prior meeting of minds

involving synchronization of buy and sell order and not negotiated

deals as per the board's circular. The impugned transactions are

manipulative/deceptive device to create a desired loss and/or profit.

Such synchronized trading is violative of transparent norms of trading

in securities. If the findings of SAT are to be sustained, it would have

serious repercussions undermining the integrity of the market and the

impugned order of SAT is liable to be set aside. On the above

additional reasonings also, I agree with the conclusion allowing the

appeal preferred by SEBI against the traders. I also agree with the

conclusion dismissing the appeal preferred by the SEBI against the

brokers. .………………………..J.
 [R. BANUMATHI]
New Delhi; February 08, 2018 90