The Odisha State Government has issued an internet suspension and curfew in the town of Balasore in Odisha over incidents of communal violence, reported the Hindu . The violence was caused due to social media posts alleging the mass slaughter of cows during Eid-ul-Azha on Monday, resulting in conflicts between the two communities. The State Home Department has enforced an internet shutdown in the town and prohibited the usage of online platforms such as X, WhatsApp and Facebook till 10 a.m. Thursday.

The move was taken in order to prevent the circulation of inflammatory and motivated messages on social media and disturb the public order in Balasore municipality areas, according to D. K. Singh, State Home Secretary, The Hindu report said. Additionally, 16 platoons of police staged a flag march in the disturbed area. The conflict began after some locals noticed that water in the drain near a mausoleum turned red, which they believed was due to cow slaughter. The resulting violence led to the imposition of Sec 144 CrPC in the district.

India has a long history of internet shutdowns, usually imposed in response to public disorder or communal violence. A 2023 report from Surf Shark VPN showed that India was among the top two countries to record the highest number of internet restrictions that year, eight of which were during anti-government protests. In February this year, the Ministry of Home Affairs imposed a ten-day-long internet shutdown in part of Punjab amid ongoing farmers’ protests. Furthermore, continuing the long trend, the Rajasthan government imposed an internet shutdown in January to prevent cheating in the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) examinations.

The state of Manipur saw the longest internet shutdown of the last year, lasting from May to December. Triggered by widespread ethnic conflict, the shutdown totalled 5000 hours, making up the majority of India’s 7000-hour shutdown. A citizen petition before the Supreme Court argued that the shutdown caused “significant harm” to people’s rights, greatly impacted their mental health and rendered them unable to communicate with family and friends during a conflict-ridden period. The petitioners also could not access banks, schools, online modes of payment or obtain essential supplies, thereby bringing their lives to a standstill. The Editors Guild of India also argued that the Internet ban was a “mistake” and that instead of controlling the conflict, it blocked alternative points of view while feeding rumours.

Several concerns have been raised regarding the impact of internet suspension on civil liberties like freedom of speech. Such actions violate citizens’ fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution of India, argued a recent plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Internet suspension “restricts the movement of individuals and inhibits their ability to access information, thus impeding their right to assemble and protest peacefully,” said the plea.

In 2020, the Supreme Court laid down a landmark judgement declaring that a right to the internet is also part of freedom of speech and expression, and an indefinite ban on the internet is an abuse of power. It required internet shutdown orders to be made public and subjected them to judicial review. Notably, it also commented that Section 144 cannot be used to curb liberty and can be used only where there is incitement to violence and danger to public safety. The freedom to practise trade and occupations – dependent on the internet – is protected under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event