Fintech company MobiKwik debuted on the stock market, registering successful listings on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange (NSE) on December 18, 2024, as per reports . Its shares opened at Rs 442.25 on the BSE, totalling a premium of 58.5% from its issue price of Rs 279, and at Rs 440 on the NSE, showing a premium of 57.71%.

Its Initial Public Offering (IPO) was oversubscribed 119.38 times the shares on offer, resulting in bids worth roughly Rs 40,000 crore from December 11 to December 13. MobiKwik’s shares, which were offered at an “attractive” price band of Rs 265 to Rs 279, and the massive discount on the company’s valuation have influenced its IPO’s oversubscription, reports The Economic Times. This marks the company’s third attempt to go public, following unsuccessful efforts in January 2024 to raise Rs 700 crore and in July 2021 to raise Rs 1500 crore through fresh issues of equity shares.

Currently, the company is aiming to raise Rs 572 crore from a fresh issue of equity shares as per its Red Herring Prospectus (RHP), filed with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on December 5, 2024. The firm has allotted 75% of the issue size for QIBs (qualified institutional buyers), 10% for non-institutional bidders, and 10% for retail individual bidders. For context , MobiKwik is an online financial services company, conducting operations in the payments business, and financial services business, alongside offering investment and insurance services.

MobiKwik operates based on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) mandated guidelines and government approvals and licenses subject to numerous conditions, which may be revoked in case of non-compliance. This may also lead to penalties or disruption of operations. The company also notes previous instances of operational issues concerning review processes for fraud risk management, data leakage control on employee mobile devices, and non-compliance, among others highlighted by the RBI. Previously, the RBI also flagged concerns about the company’s IT compliance undertakings and also provided it with a show-cause notice under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 for not maintaining the required net worth. The company clarified that it has submitted a net worth certificate to RBI, assuring the authority of its compliance.

Since MobiKwik collects, processes, and stores large amounts of consumer data, including contact information, geolocation, behavioural data, etc., it faces the risk of cyberattacks like phishing, hacking, data theft, and ransomware, among others. The company states that any such data breach could result in improper disclosure of customer data, loss of confidence, and subsequent reputational damage to the company. However, the company outlines measures such as regular audits, vulnerability assessments, and penetration testing to safeguard itself against such threats.

Additionally, following an RBI audit of MobiKwik, in December 2021, the regulatory authority issued a “Stop Operations Order” against the company, instructing it to cease the issuance of fresh prepaid payment instruments (PPIs) or reloading existing PPIs. The RBI lifted the order following satisfaction with the system audit report (SAR) submitted by the company in January 2022.

Since the company cannot occupy a “lender” status, it partners with banks and RBI-registered non-banking financial companies (NBFC) to extend credits through its products and conduct its financial services distribution business. However, factors like the company’s failure to maintain facets like customer engagement, effective credit underwriting, risk management processes, etc, could adversely impact these partnerships. Subsequently, lending partners may skew toward acquiring customers directly, developing their own technologies, or reducing their overall cooperation with MobiKwik. The business acknowledges a reduction in its ability to operate in the financial services industry if a lending partner ends his contract.

MobiKwik stated that it faces intense competition in the fintech market from competitors like Paytm, Phonepe, Airtel Payments Bank, Freecharge, etc. The RHP explained that some of its competitors surpass it with regard to consumer bases, brand recognition, significant traffic, secure market positions, technological capabilities, geographic scale, and other metrics. Further, the increased adoption of UPI and alternative digital payment modes by consumers has heightened competition. Consequently, the company faces pressure to alter pricing for users and merchants.

The company explains that its projected funding requirement and proposed deployment of net proceeds are dependent on management estimates and assumptions that have not been appraised by any banks or financial institutions. It adds that any change in circumstances beyond its control could influence the expected future revenues or profits following the utilisation of the proceeds.

MobiKwik relies on third parties like merchants and banks, enabling them to process transactions, lending partners to facilitate its products like MobiKwik ZIP and ZIP EMI, and external business partners for outsourcing customer support, and IT support, among others. Any disruption/interference in the facilities provided by the third parties owing to external or other factors will affect the company’s ability to meet consumer requirements and maintain performance standards.

MobiKwik recorded frauds worth Rs 4.8 crore and Rs 10.7 crore in FY23 and FY22 respectively. The company states that high-profile fraudulent activity could cause regulatory intervention, negative publicity, and affect cash flows, among other impacts on overall business.

The company also noted an accumulation of losses worth Rs 128 crore in FY22 and Rs 83.8 crore in FY23 and a potential slowdown in the growth of active users as factors impacting its business. Besides this, failure to comply with laws and regulations related to consumer data processing (like the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 and the Information and Technology Act, 2000) could result in penalties and increased costs of operations.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event