Respondent: Shri S.K Tyagi, Deputy Director and CPIO, Shri D K Sagar, Deputy
Director Electronics and Shri R A Dhawan, Senior General Manager (HR &
Admn) and CPIO NeGD 1 Information Sought: Grounds for Complaint
The CPIO, NEGD and Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology did not
provide any information. Submissions made by Complainant and Respondent during Hearing: The CPIO, NIC shall also submit written submissions detailing their role in
creation of the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ with the domain name
gov.in. The CPIO, NeGD shall also explain the delay of about 2 months in
replying to the RTI application. The Commission directs the above-mentioned CPIOs to appear before the
bench on 24.11.2020 at 01.15 pm to show cause as to why action should not
be initiated against them under Section 20 of the RTI Act. The CPIOs are also
directed to send a copy of all supporting documents upon which they choose
to rely upon during the hearing. The said documents be sent to the 7 Commission atleast 5 days prior to the hearing via linkpaper. If any other
persons are responsible for the said omission, the CPIO shall serve a copy of
this order on such persons to direct their presence before the bench as well. The Registry shall endorse a copy of this interim order to the Secretary MeitY,
CEO MyGOV and Director General NIC for information and necessary action. The case is adjourned accordingly

Date of Hearing: 24/11/2020
Date of Decision: 24/11/2020

The following were present: They submitted that the above was primarily on account of the query of the
applicant being related to multiple agencies and Government Departments for
which though the entire information was available in public domain but the
same was not specifically available to the individual CPIOs and hence a proper
and clear reply could not be submitted in time to the applicant or during the
hearing before the Commission . They further submitted that the applicant had also filed two additional RTI
applications with regard to the Aarogya Setu App to CPIO NIC which have
already been responded to by NIC vide replies dated 10.08.2020 (disposed of
online). Additional information was also provided to both the queries by e-mail
dated 04.09.2020 and as part of the FAA's order in appeal disposed of on
15.10.2020 wherein all the queries under the purview of NIC were answered
and the others are being transferred to the concerned organisations.
They submitted that vide orders No. 40-3/2020-DM-1(A) dated 29.03.2020 and
01.05.2020, the Central Government had constituted empowered groups
under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to ensure public safety, identify the
problem areas and provide practical solutions in a time bound-manner and out
of the same empowered groups, the Empowered Group no. 9 on technology
and data management under the purview of Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology was entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating
all technological solutions for fighting COVID-19. They also submitted that the development of the Aarogya Setu App was done
at a time when the entire nation was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and 10 the nation had gone into a complete lockdown in the last week of March 2020
following the call for Janata Curfew on 22.03.2020. The nature of COVID 19
virus is such that most people who get infected by the virus remain
asymptomatic for around 2 weeks before showing any symptoms which results
in a delay in the test diagnosing them as COVID-19 positive. During the period
before they have been detected COVID positive such people may continue to
infect other people with whom they come in contact and contribute to the
spread of the virus. In order to address this, in many countries around the
world a contact tracing app has proved to be an effective tool to alert people if
they have come in contact with anyone who is tested positive for COVID-19 .
In view of the above, stakeholders from across Industry-Academia and
Government authorities, including officials from NITI Aayog and MeitY had
come together to build a Contact Tracing App for India. In the month of March,
2020 several such apps were being built, and after due consideration of all the
competing Apps, it was decided that a National App for contact tracing namely
Aarogya Setu will be built to strengthen the fight against COVID-19.
This app was built in a record time of less than 3 weeks without any cost to
Government and was launched on 2nd April, 2020. Within 13 days of the
launch of the App it had more than 50 million users which was a world record
of the fastest time to reach 50 million users for any mobile app.
He further submitted that the App has more than 164 million users which is
more than the combined users of all other Contact Tracing Apps in the world.
The app has proved to be effective in informing and alerting people if they
have come in contact with any COVID-19 positive person and has also helped
in educating people about the behavioural changes that may be needed
regarding usage of masks, social distancing and hand washing. The app has also
helped in identification of potential hotspots and strengthened the ability of
health authorities and District Administrations in the fight against COVID-19.
The app has been designed with a privacy first policy and the entire data of the
users is completely safe. Most of the data remains on the mobile phone of the
users and gets auto deleted after 30 days if the person concerned is not
COVID-19 positive. Data of only those who are tested positive is pushed to
the server, with the objective of alerting people who might have come in
Bluetooth contact with those who tested positive. Such data is also deleted
after a maximum of 60 days from the date a person recovers. These protocols
are clearly defined and available in public domain. The Android and IOS code 11 of Aarogya Setu is available in the open domain alongwith the names of the
persons who have been involved in the development of the app.
To establish a working mechanism of the Aarogya Setu Platform Ecosystem,
MeitY has established an organisational set up consisting of members as given
in the O.M dated 08th April 2020 and later on modified with the addition of P&
CEO, NeGD and CEO, MyGOV as one of the members of the organisational set
up (O.M dated 08.04.2020 and 28.04.2020). In order to ensure secure data collection by the Aarogya Setu mobile
application, protection of personal data of individuals, the MeitY has issued the
Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol 2020. The Aarogya
Setu application fully complies with this protocol. The user of the Aarogya Setu application is safeguarded with the provisions of
the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Disaster Management Act, 2005 .
Moreover, all the necessary protection to the personal data of users is ensured
as per the provisions of the proposed Personal Data Protection Bill 2018. The
following privacy safeguards have already been provided to all the users of
Aarogya Setu application and notified in the privacy policy and terms of the
usage of the App. i. No personal data collected without user consent. ii.User is clearly informed regarding the following: iv. Data is sent to servers only if the user tests positive for COVID or the user
voluntarily submits his/her data with consent. v. Copy of Privacy policy and terms of usage was also enclosed. All the necessary information about the Aarogya Setu application is already
available in public domain, and details of application developers and
contributors are also made available in the Github https://github.com/nic-
delhi/AarogyaSetu_Android/graphs/contributors 12 The Ministry also issued necessary orders and directives to all CPIOs concerned
to comply with the timelines and provisions of the RTI Act 2005 in letter and
spirit to promote transparency. The entire information and relevant documents regarding the development of
the app are also available in the public domain on "aarogyasetu.gov.in". The
site was created with the domain name gov.in for NIC and approved by NIC's
Nodal Officer and competent authority. Regular press releases have also been issued regarding the Aarogya Setu App
including dissemination of information via social media and hence, there is no
reason to believe that at any point of time the Government has not shared
information with regard to the functioning or development of the app. Copies
of all press releases were annexed. The CPIOs of NeGD, MeitY and NIC further extended their apology for not
being able to share the above information at the time of the hearing on
22.10.2020 and requested to drop the showcause notice in view of all that has
been explained during the hearing now. Observations: The aforementioned decision was also relied upon and affirmed by the Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi in its decision in Anand Bhushan v. R.A. Haritash : ILR (2012)
4 Delhi 657 wherein it was held as under: Following the above ratio, the Commission finds it pertinent to mention here
that it was not inclined to allow the applicant to participate in the showcause
proceedings as the matter is between the Commission and the respondents. It is relevant to mention here that due to the CPIOs' poor preparation of the
facts of the case the impression given to the Commission on 22.10.2020 during
the first hearing was that there is no information available in public domain. The Commission observed that the present case is a complaint and not a
second appeal, therefore, it cannot direct the CPIO to provide information.
However, in all fairness, the present CPIO volunteered to satisfy the
complainant and provide information (in hard copies) as well hyperlink
wherever applicable within 3 days from the date of issue of this order. The Commission finds it relevant to mention here that subsequent to the
present show cause notice hearing, it has come to light that there was plenty
of material available in public domain on the app, however, the CPIOs gave the
wrong impression. Therefore, the complainant's grievance appeared well
founded that he was not given any information and therefore it appeared that
there was none and the whole matter appeared to be non-transparent.
The present CPIO had also requested to take on record that the intent behind
creating this app was to control the pandemic and not to breach the privacy of
individuals. He was involved in the development stage and even World Health
Organisation (WHO) had appreciated the app. He requested to drop the
showcause notice considering the subject matter as unique and considering all
the facts that have now been placed before the Commission.
He had again reiterated that henceforth the RTI Act shall be upheld in the true
spirit of transparency. Mr Rao also informed that date-wise events shall be informed to the applicant
starting from April 2020, so that whole information as available from time to
time in public domain is known to him. Based on a perusal of the written explanation and the relevant enclosures, the
Commission observed that the fact remains that the CPIOs concerned were
not prepared for the hearing on 22.10.2020 and it is after the showcause
notice was issued, that they located the documents and provided a detailed
explanation. As far as the showcause notice issued was concerned, the
questions raised by the Commission now stand answered in detail by the
present CPIO. However, the fact remains that the complainant was not given a
proper reply guiding him to the hyperlink where the information sought was
available nor was he given the copies of the relevant guidelines. The key
information is that vide orders No. 40-3/2020-DM-1(A) dated 29.03.2020 and
01.05.2020, the Central Government had constituted empowered groups
under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to ensure public safety, identify the
problem areas and provide practical solutions in a time bound-manner and
with regard to the overall aspect of controlling the pandemic 11 empowered
groups were formed. The Empowered Group no. 9 on technology and data
management under the purview of Ministry of Electronics and Information
Technology was entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating all
technological solutions for fighting COVID-19. Further, stakeholders from
across Industry-Academia and Government authorities, including officials from 15 NITI Aayog and MeitY had come together to build a Contact Tracing App for
India. This app was built in a record time of less than 3 weeks without any cost
to Government and was launched on 2nd April, 2020. Within 13 days of the
launch of the App it had more than 50 million users which was a world record
of the fastest time taken to reach 50 million users for any mobile app.
Furthermore, it was also observed that the privacy concern raised by the
applicant was also properly explained by the CPIOs in their written
submissions. The Commission observes that after the showcause notice was issued the
CPIOs made all possible efforts and coordinated with the concerned record
holders to provide a proper explanation. However, due to the callousness and
lackadaisical approach of the CPIOs during the hearing on 22.10.2020 the
Commission was constrained to issue a showcause notice for want of a proper
response to the RTI applicant and to the queries raised during the hearing.
Nevertheless, from the above explanation it is also clear that there was no
malafide intent on the part of the CPIOs, rather, they failed to provide a point-
wise reply to the applicant due to the data being available in a scattered
manner and due to the fact that proper co-ordination among all the concerned
agencies was not undertaken before appearing for the hearing . The Commission finds that there is enough and more information regarding
the said App in public domain which can be accessed by citizens at large.
Further, a lot of work has been done in a very short time to bring out this app
to help in containing the spread of Covid-19. Finally, with regard to the imposition of penalty on the CPIO/PIO under Section
20 of the RTI Act, 2005, the Commission took note of the ruling of the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in W.P.(C) 11271/2009 Registrar of Companies & Ors v.
Dharmendra Kumar Garg & Anr. (delivered on: 01.06.2012) wherein it was
held: Similarly, the following observation of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Bhagat
Singh v. CIC & Ors. WP(C ) 3114/2007 is pertinent in this matter: The Commission also observed that the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the
matter of R.K. Jain v. V.P. Pandey, CPIO, CESTAT, New Delhi in W.P. (C) No.
4785/ 2017 dated 10.10.2017 adjudicated an order of the Commission dated
17.04.2017 whereby the Respondent was cautioned to exercise due care in
future and to ensure that correct and complete information is furnished to the
RTI applicants. It was decided that: Decision: