1. The matter has been taken up suo motu in light of captioned media

report with regard to the fire incident dated 10.09.2022 in M/s Anupam

Rasayan India Limited, District Surat, Gujarat. Advance notice dated

12.09.2022 was issued by the office to the PP, State PCB, CPC B, Director,

Industrial Safety and Health Government of Gujarat, Collector and

District Magistrate, Surat, Gujarat. Response has been filed by the PP

and the GPCB. 2. We have heard Learned Counsel for the parties. 3. Stand of the GPCB is that the unit is manufacturing Bulk drugs,

bulk drugs intermediates and specialty chemicals Acetaldehyde, Advance 1 specialty/Pharma compounds and R & D Centre along with Pilot Plant. It

has CTE valid upto 15.01.2023, amended CTE valid upto 29.06.2023, EC

dated 07.08.2017, amended on 02.02.2018 and further EC granted by

SEIAA, Gujarat on 23.08.2019. CCA is valid upto 30.06.2024. The

incident took place on 10.09.2022 at 22:00 Hrs. The Board officials

inspected the unit on 11.09.2022 at 9:15 Hrs. Production process for

manufacturing of 2,4-Diflouro nitro benzene and distillation of solvent

Sulfolane was going on at the time of incident within production plant

Section-I. Blast/Fire incident occurred in receiver of distillation vessel.

Four persons lost their lives and 20 were injured. The State PCB issued

closure order under Section 31A of the Air (Prevention and Control of

Pollution) Act, 1981 and levied compensation of Rs. 1 crores with further

direction that directions of Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health

(DISH) may be complied with. Compensation amount has been deposited. 4. The stand of the PP is that it has requisite consents and has

complied with environmental norms. It has undertaken safety audit from

the third party. The cause of incident was increase in temperature during

distillation process. Hot material in the receiver led to fire which spread

in the whole of plant -1 leading to explosion. The PP has taken all

possible precaution for safety of the employees and the unit. The DISH

looked into the matter and sought response vide letter dated 11.09.2022

to which the PP gave explanation dated 19.09.2022. PP filed safety audit

report, the HAZOP study report and the PLI policy. PP will ensure that no

such incident happens in future. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the GPCB and the PP. 6. The question for consideration is whether there is a lapse on the

part of the PP in compliance of environmental safety norms which 2 resulted in the incident in question and whether the statutory authorities

have taken necessary precaution and measures to prevent such incident.

In the light of determination of the said issue, further question is about

the directions which are called for. 7. On due consideration, we find that though the issue is governed by

'Absolute Liability' principle in terms of ( 1987) 1 SCC 395, MC Mehta Vs.

UOI , the PP has violated safety norms. The authorities have also failed in

their duty to oversee. Thus, remedial action is required for the violations

and also for ensuring compliance in future. 8. We find it difficult to accept the claim of the PP that it has taken all

safety measures and the fire incident is for unknown reasons. It is true

that the PP has filed an Audit Safety Report and GPCB as well as other

regulators have failed to point out the violations. However, violations are

patent. Due to application of 'precautionary principle', burden is on PP to

show that its activities are benign and it has taken all possible measures

to avoid the incident. We find that steps have not been taken to avoid

clearly foreseeable damage. There is also violation of EC condition

requiring development of 33% area as green belt. Environmental Safety

measures required are laid down statutorily under the Manufacture,

Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 under the EP

Act . The Rules require preparation of onsite and offsite plans and holding

of mock drills. Compliance thereof is not established as it is not known

when last mock drill was held though audit report of 2020 says that

mock drills are regularly held. 9. Vide order dated 29.08.2022, the Tribunal dealt with identical

issue of blast in a chemical factory in District Bharuch, Gujarat on

12.04.2022. The Tribunal constituted a five Member Joint Committee of 3 CPC B, State PCB, District Magistrate, Bharuch, Director, Industrial

Safety Gujarat and State Disaster Management Authority to ascertain the

cause of death and to make recommendations to prevent such incidents.

The Committee gave its report dated 22.07.2022. Reasons identified for

the incident inter alia were - not following SOP on the subject, not having

trained Plant Operators, not installing CCTV cameras to ascertain

activities before and after the incident. Such measures are not shown to

have been taken in the present case also. The Committee made following

recommendations:- Training should include handling emergencies like
 leakage, abnormal temperature, pressure readings,
 increased emissions, pump failures, failure of air
 pollution control devices, shock loads or any other
 accidents likely to occur due to any activity within the
 premises. (iii) Emergency preparedness should be reviewed by plant
 management on routine basis. Mock drills must be
 conducted atleast in every six month and on induction
 of any new operator in the plant. For this, a mock drill
 calendar should be prepared. Mock drill should always
 be done under supervision of an expert person. Input on
 Observer on mock drill should be incorporated in
 emergency plan. (iv) All the pressure containing equipment should have
 pressure release provision. (v) Every solvent recovery plant should have Supervisory
 Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Leak
 Detection and Repair (LDAR) systems. (vi) Seals, glands and gaskets shall be regularly inspected,
 without dismantling. Leak detectors should be provided 4 for all piping, valves, seals, flanges, and other pertinent
 equipment. (vii) After each batch of distillation, the entire system
 should be thoroughly cleaned and inspected before start
 of new batch. SOP in this regard to be prepared and
 implemented. (viii) Flow meters, sensors, measuring devices have to be
 regularly calibrated and all process parameter monitor
 should have alert/ siren system. (ix) All pipework containing hazardous chemicals shall be
 identified by colour coding or labelling (as per standards
 notified by Bureau of Indian Standards) and shall be
 protected to prevent corrosion / damage. The practice to
 identify the parts of the system that contain gas or liquid
 and the direction of flow should be followed. (x) The distillation units shall install double valve system
 for taking samples during the process to minimize air
 ingress and provide interlocking arrangement for
 critical process parameter to shut down the process
 and/ or inject coolant in place of heat on reactor
 jackets. (xi) Flame arrestors, water curtains and adequate fire
 safety arrangements (fire hydrant, foam system, etc.)
 shall be installed. Spark / flame proof electrical fittings
 shall be installed. (xii) In no case any unit should be allowed to store
 petroleum class A or class B or Class C in open to sky
 area. (xiii) Suitable gas and VOC sensors alongwith alarm system
 should be installed in the unit at appropriate locations. (xiv) A system should be established having brief of
 operation done in a shift, no. of batches charged,
 product manufactured and problems encountered or
 suspected. (xv) After every training, training effectiveness should be
 evaluated for Operational Negligence, Operator fault,
 Lack of standard operating procedure for transfer of
 material from one reactor to another and on cleaning of
 reactors, lack of awareness of personnel on SOP's, non-
 compliance of SOP's by employees, Noncompliance of
 safety practices by employees, etc. For this purpose,
 training calendar and training feedback record should
 be maintained. Sensitization of workers for SOP adoption
 should be carried out and day-to-day practices regularly
 checked and record should be maintained. (xvi) The Regulatory Authorities shall take immediate action
 against erring industries as per prevailing Rules based on
 periodic inspections. In addition the Regulatory 5 Authorities shall sensitize the industries about safety
 norms, industrial best practices, industry specific
 emission & effluent standards etc.

 (xvii) Plant should be thoroughly inspected by the plant
 management regularly for short bolting, flange
 tightening, less number of nuts and bolts than required or
 designed, firefighting and plant personnel should be
 cross-checked for chemical stock, understanding of
 compatibility matrix of chemicals/ spent solvents, etc.

 (xviii) The manpower of the DISH in the industrial area must
 be commensurate with the numbers of units in the area
 with proper training to improve the efficiency of DISH.

 (xix) Annual safety audit from third party should be made
 mandatory for every plant and fie adequacy certificate
 should be made mandatory before operation of
 distillation plant. (xx) Distillation plants should have safe assembly points
 with signage, signage for safety evacuation and double
 staircase (opposite to each other) for exiting from
 process area in case of emergency." 10. In the present case also the above measures are not shown to have

been adopted. Recommendations of the Committee can be taken to be

prudent measures expected to be followed by any PP in running its

activities, viz the Bulk Drug/ pharma manufacturers, based on the

'precautionary principle' or principle of foreseeability. The Tribunal

accordingly directed adoption of recommended safeguards to prevent

such occurrences in future by all such establishments. The State PCB

while giving its report in the present case has failed to indicate

compliance of the recommended measures by the PP in the present case.

GPCB has levied interim compensation of Rs. 1 crore without listing the

violations. 11. Accordingly, we direct the PP to adopt necessary safety measures in

light of above to prevent such incidents in future which may be overseen

by the State PCB. The State PCB may also duly determine the final 6 compensation in the light of violations mentioned above. It may finalize

the matter within two months, following due process of law. The application is disposed of. A copy of this order be forwarded to the State PCB by e-mail for

compliance. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM

September 23, 2022
Original Application No. 671/2022
SN 7