The online real money gaming sector was responsible for the highest amount of GST evasion in Financial Year 2023-2024, revealed an annual report from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI). The sector evaded total taxes worth Rs. 81,875 crore in FY24 across 78 cases.

“Online money gaming is a high-risk industry for tax evasion, money laundering, cyber frauds, juvenile deliquency and various socio-economic evils,” said the report. The DGGI stated that bringing online gaming entitites under the tax net was difficult as many of them are located in offshore tax havens, keep on changing their websites or use dark web based platforms or VPNs. The agency asked for a “multi-pronged approach” that involved the creation of an interdepartmental committee including CBIC, CBDT, MCA, MIB, MeitY, RBI and the Department of Consumer Affairs to ensure regulatory compliance, consumer protection and national security.

Last year, the government had hiked the GST on real money online gaming to 28% from 18%, essentially equating online gaming and gambling. This seemed to disregard the accepted idea that skill-based games (like poker and rummy) are different from gambling, which is based entirely on chance.

When the amendment came into force on October 1 last year, multiple companies received massive tax evasion notices extending back to previous financial years. Dream Sports reportedly received claims between Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 40,000 crore, while Delta Corp was served with a Rs. 16,822 crore notice for the period of July 2017 to March 2022. Even though the government claimed that the hike was not retrospective , many of the claims went back several years.

The government later reportedly reconsidered the tax notices, as it “realised” the retrospective tax demands can pose an “existential issue” for real money gaming companies. Further, at the 53rd GST Council meeting, the government proposed inserting a new section to the CGST Act that would allow it to potentially withdraw retrospective show cause notices.

Regardless, the government earned substantial GST revenue from online gaming within six months of the tax hike, as revealed by the Finance Minister during the 54th GST Council Meeting. Collections jumped five times to Rs. 6,909 crore in only six months, from Rs. 1,349 crore in the preceding six months.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event