1. The present appeal has been filed by the appellant 2 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 u/s 374 of Cr.P.C . seeking reduction of fine in RC.SIB­2004­E­

0002 in FIR No. 604/02 Police Station Hauz Khas. 2. Facts giving rise to the present appeal are that this

is a case of the series of cases which arose out of the biggest

scams known as Fake Stamp Paper Scam in the history of India.

After receiving of secret information, a raid was conducted at the

office of main accused Abdul Karim Telgi. The present case was

registered in the year 2002 and co­accused namely Mansoor

Ahmad, Mohsin Azimullah @ Suleman, Mohd. Asif @ Ashish Patel

and Deepak Kudale were arrested on 05.10.2002 and their

disclosure statement were recorded and further the other accused

persons were arrested including the present appellant. The

accused persons disclosed that they were working for Abdul Karim

Telgi who was in Bangalore jail at that time. During the course of

investigation, counterfeit government stamps scam burst out and

accordingly from time to time various accused persons in the said 3 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 scam were arrested. 3. After filing of the charge sheet and after order on the

charge, section 255 IPC was dropped and the case was remanded

to the ld. ACMM Tis Hazari, Delhi. CBI filed the criminal revision

against that order which was also dismissed. Subsequently on the

point of charge, the appellant pleaded guilty and he has been

convicted vide order dated 23.4.2009 and sentenced vide order

dated 11.6.2009 and it is against this order of sentence, that

appellant has filed the present appeal. 4. One of the grounds of the appeal is that appellant

did not participate in actual commission of offence and he is in

custody since his arrest. The trial court at Pune, Ahmedabad

calculated the period of custody of the accused persons from the

date of their first arrest of the FIR in which they were arrested

whereas the trial court here has not done so. As a result of arrest

and conviction of the appellant who was the sole bread earner and 4 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 was maintaining his whole family, now his whole family is on the

verge of the starvation. The appellant has old aged parents and

younger sister. It is therefore, prayed that sentence be reduced

alongwith fine to the period already undergone by the appellant. 5. After filing of the appeal, notice was given to the

CBI and the trial court record was summoned. Special PP for CBI

appeared and contested the appeal. 6. I have heard ld. counsel for the appellant and ld.

special PP for CBI and have carefully perused the record. 7. It is an admitted fact that the appellant alongwith the

other co­accused persons in the present case have pleaded guilty

to the charges framed against him by trial court. The appellant has

been sentenced by the trial court which is as under: 8. There is no definite sentencing policy in India and

every cases has to be judged on its own facts and circumstances.

The observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case 2009 V AD

(S. C. ) 515 titled as Sahdev vs. Jaibar @ Jai Dev & Ors. can

very well be applied in the present case. The Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under:­­

 "The law regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting

claims and demands. Security of persons and property of the

people is an essential function of the State. It could be achieved

through instrumentality of criminal law. Undoubtedly, there is a

cross cultural conflict where living law must find answer to the new

challenges and the courts are required to mould the sentencing

system to meet the challenges. The contagion of lawlessness

would undermine social order and lay it in ruins. Protection of

society and stamping out criminal proclivity must be the object of

law which must be achieved by imposing appropriate sentence. 6 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 Therefore, law as a corner­stone of the edifice of "order" should

meet the challenges confronting the society. Friedman in his "Law

in Changing Society" stated that, "State of criminal law continues to

be­ as it should be­ a decisive reflection of social consciousness

of society". Therefore, in operating the sentencing system, law

should adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence based on

factual matrix. By deft the modulation sentencing process be stern

where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to

be. The facts and given circumstances in each case, the nature of

the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed, the

motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused,

the nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances

are relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration.

For instance a murder committed due to deep­seated mutual and

personal rivalry may not call for penalty of death. But an organised

crime or mass murders of innocent people would call for imposition

of death sentence as deterrence. In Mahesh vs. State of MP (1987) 2 SCR 710), this court while refusing to reduce the death

sentence observed thus: Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate

sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine

the public confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not

long endure under such serious threats. It is, therefore, the duty of

every court to award proper sentence having regard to the nature

of the offence and the manner in which it was executed or

committed etc. This position was illuminatingly stated by this court

in Sevaka Perumal etc. vs. State of Tamil Nadu (AIR 1991 SC

1463). The criminal law adheres in general to the principle of

proportionality in prescribing liability according to the culpability of

each kind of criminal conduct. It ordinarily allows some significant

discretion to the judge in arriving at a sentence in each case,

presumably to permit sentences that reflect more subtle 8 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 considerations of culpability that are raised by the special facts of

each case. Judges in essence affirm that punishment ought

always to fit the crime; yet in practice sentences are determined

largely by other considerations. Sometimes it is the correctional

needs of the perpetrator that are offered to justify a sentence.

Sometimes the desirability of keeping him out of circulation, and

sometimes even the tragic results of his crime. Inevitably these

considerations cause a departure from just desert as the basis of

punishment and create cases of apparent injustice that are serious

and widespread. Proportion between crime and punishment is a goal

respected in principle, and in spite of errant notions, it remains a

strong influence in the determination of sentences. The practice of

punishing all serious crimes with equal severity is now unknown in

civilized societies, but such a radical departure from the principle of

proportionality has disappeared from the law only in recent times.

Even now for a single grave infraction drastic sentences are

imposed. Anything less than a penalty of greatest severity for any

serious crime is thought then to be a measure of toleration that is

unwarranted an unwise. But in fact, quite apart from those

considerations that make punishment unjustifiable when it is out of 9 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 proportion to the crime, uniformly disproportionate punishment has

some very undesirable practical consequences. After giving due consideration to the facts and

circumstances of each case, for deciding just and appropriate

sentence to be awarded for an offence, the aggravating and

mitigating factor and circumstances in which a crime has been

committed are to be delicately balanced on the basis of really

relevant circumstances in a dispassionate manner by the Court.

Such act of balancing is indeed a difficult task. It has been very

aptly indicated in Dennis Councle MCGDautha vs. State of

Callifornia: 402 US 183: 28 L.D. 2d 711 that no formula of a

foolproof nature is possible that would provide a reasonable

criterion in determining a just and appropriate punishment in the

infinite variety of circumstances that may affect the gravity of the

crime. In the absence of any foolproof formula which may provide

any basis for reasonable criteria to correctly assess various

circumstances germane to the consideration or gravity of crime,

the discretionary judgement in the facts of each case, is the only

way in which such judgment may be equitably distinguished". 9. Reliance is also placed upon 2009 IV AD (S.C.) 1 titled

as State of Karnataka vs. Muralidhar where in Hon'ble Supreme 10 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 Court held as under:­­

 "The object should be to protect the society and to deter

the criminal in achieving the avowed object of law by imposing

appropriate sentence. It is expected that the courts would operate

the sentencing system so as to impose such sentence which

reflects the conscience of the society and the sentencing process

has to be stern where it should be. Imposition of sentence without considering its effect on

the social order in may cases may be in reality a futile exercise.

The social impact of the crime, e.g. where it relates to offence

against women, dacoity, kidnapping, misappropriation of public

money, treason and other offence involving moral turpitude or

moral delinquency which have great impact on social order, and

public interest, cannot be lost sight of and per se require

exemplary treatment. Any liberal attitude by imposing meager

sentences or taking too sympathetic view merely on account of

lapse of time in respect of such offences will be result­wise counter

productive in the long run and against societal interest which

needs to be cared for and strengthened by string of deterrence

inbuilt in the sentencing system. The court will be failing in its duty if appropriate 11 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 punishment is not awarded for a crime which has been committed

not only against the individual victim but also against the society to

which the criminal and victim belong. The punishment to be

awarded for a crime must not be irrelevant but it should conform to

and be consistent with the atrocity and brutality with which the

crime has been perpetrated, the enormity of crime warranting

public abhorrence and it should "respond to the society's cry for

justice against the criminal". 10. Now coming to the merits of the case, ld. trial court has

rightly observed that magnitude and impact of offence committed

by the convicts on the society was so adverse that the trust of a

common man in the administration was completely shaken. There

remains no doubt that it is one of the most heinous crimes of the

history. Due to scam the trust of the common man in the

administration was completely shaken. Fake stamps worth

hundreds of crores were got printed and sold to the innocent

customer as genuine stamps in a pre­planned and organized

manner and therefore no undue sympathy can be shown to the 12 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 appellant as it may result in common man loss of faith and trust in

the criminal justice administration system also. It will further give

rise to a premium on the offence as instead of a deterrent, image it

will create in the mind of common man will be that after committing

a fraud of such a great magnitude, a person can get free after

spending some time in jail after pleading guilty and paying nominal

fine. 11. The sentence awarded by the ld. trial court does not call

for any interference. There is no infirmity or illegality in the same.

The order of trial court is upheld. The appeal filed by the appellant

is dismissed. There shall be no order as to cost. Trial court record

alongwith a copy of this order be sent back. A copy of this order be

also sent to concerned jail superintendent. Appeal file be

consigned to record room. (MADHU JAIN)
 ASJ­03/NORTH/DELHI
Announced in the open court today i.e. 10.02.2010. An application u/s 5 of Limitation Act for condonation

of delay in filing the present appeal has been filed by the appellant

alongwith the appeal. In the application, it is stated that the

appellant could not contact his family members or his counsel from

inside the jail and when the counsel for the appellant met him in jail

after receiving a call in this regard from his family members then

the counsel for the appellant got signed the vakalatnama from the

appellant and got attested from the jail superintendent and

thereafter the present appeal has been filed. It is stated due to

above stated reasons the appeal could not be filed within time.

There is delay of 2 months in filing the present appeal. It is stated

that if the delay in filing the present appeal is not condoned, then 14 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 the appellant shall suffer an irreparable loss. I have heard ld. counsel for the appellant and

special PP for CBI on the application for condonation of delay

alongwith the appeal on merits. Sufficient reasons have been shown by the

appellant for condonation of delay in filing the present appeal.

Furthermore the technicalities should not come in the way of justice

and if the appeal is dismissed without giving an opportunity to the

appellant of being heard, then he shall suffer an irreparable loss

and injury which cannot be compensated in terms of money. As

such sufficient reasons have been shown by the appellant in not

filing the appeal within the stipulated time, the application u/s 5 of

Limitation Act filed by the appellant is allowed. Vide separate order dictated and announced in the

open court, the order dated 23.4.2009 and 11.6.2009 passed by

the trial court is upheld. The appeal filed by the appellant is 15 Crl.Appl.No. 08/2009 dismissed. There shall be no order as to cost. Trial court record

alongwith a copy of this order be sent back. A copy of this order be

also sent to concerned jail superintendent. Appeal file be

consigned to record room. (MADHU JAIN)
 ASJ­03/NORTH/DELHI
 10.2.2010