Embattled cryptocurrency exchange WazirX’s decision to partially block INR withdrawals has resulted in outrage from users as they weigh more legal options. The exchange will only allow users to withdraw up to 66% of their wallets. Users will be unable to access the remaining 34% of their wallets, as law enforcement investigations and ongoing disputes have frozen an equivalent percentage of all balances. Moreover, users expressed concern over the decision from WazirX to resolve all disputes in Singapore.

WazirX suffered a serious cyber attack in July this year, stripping it of $230 million or around 45% of its total holding. In an attempt to mitigate its losses, the company announced a controversial plan to distribute the burden across all users. Under the so-called ‘ loss socialisation ‘ plan WazirX would block and convert 45% of every user’s crypto wallet into a different currency, while users could choose to either trade or withdraw the remainder. WazirX received substantial negative feedback from this announcement, forcing them to shelve the plan and explore other options.

Dinkar Kalra, a Supreme Court lawyer who was contemplating legal action alongside other users, strongly criticised the decision to block INR withdrawals. “Law enforcement doesn’t go around and ask you freeze a certain percentage. They must have told you freeze specific accounts. Why then are you freezing 34% of everyone’s funds?,” Kalra said.

“Secondly, even if only 66% of the funds can be withdrawn, on what basis can you say that only half of the funds can be withdrawn now and half later?” he added.

The limited withdrawals are staggered into two phases. In phase 1, stretching from August 26 to September 8, users will be able to withdraw up to half of the present 66% limit of their INR balances. In the second phase users can withdraw the full 66%, which will go on from September 9 to September 22.

WazirX also did not offer any clarity on when users could access the remaining INR balances.

“The announcement surprised all of us because everyone had assumed that INR was not stolen. They said that 34% of the funds have been locked by law enforcement agencies (LEAs), but they won’t tell us which LEAs or under what cases,” said a WazirX user who wished to be identified only as Vivek. He explained that many affected users have started a Telegram channel to discuss options for recovery. But this has been attracting the attention of cyber criminals who are running phishing attacks.

The exchange has opted for a ‘Singapore Scheme of Arrangement,’ which is a corporate restructuring and regulatory framework in Singapore. Through the scheme, a company can put forward a proposal to its creditors to restructure its debts and deliver relief to creditors. It has also filed an application for a moratorium in the Singapore High Court.

WazirX’s Terms of Service state that user have to resolve all disputes with the company by arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). This is a cause of worry for Indian users. “I don’t know if users in India have any possibility to make their case heard in Singapore. It’s an Indian company operating in India for Indian users, paying taxes in India. Why are we going to Singapore?” said WazirX user Vivek.

He also asked the Government to take note of the incident. “Since the Government only allows Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) registered exchanges in India, a lot of people moved their funds either from international exchanges to WazirX.”

“So, if we follow the Government’s announcement, we should expect some protection from bad actors,” he said. “I don’t know in what capacity the Government can help, but at least some acknowledgement or some guidance would have been appreciated.”

So, does the law allow WazirX to block INR wallets of users? This is somewhat of a grey area, said Ikigai Law Founder Anirudh Rastogi. “There isn’t much of a regulatory framework governing crypto exchanges. So in the absence of that, one has to look into the terms of service that that they have with their users. Now, most crypto exchanges typically have, in the terms of use, some discretion to withhold money held by them, as and when needed,” he explained. “The WazirX terms of use actually do allow the company some powers, but that fact is not explicit. Thus, it is open to argument in court,” he said.

According to Rastogi, WazirX may not be able to claim Force Majeure in law enforcement freezing some INR wallets. “Force Majeure is essentially an event that is outside of your control and frees you from taking certain actions under the contract. If there is really nothing that stops them from permitting INR withdrawals, then they cannot claim force majeure in this particular aspect of the case.”

“While the terms of service grant WazirX some discretionary powers, they don’t expressly state that WazirX can freeze a user’s INR account. They are taking a wider interpretation of whatever powers are allowed to them on the terms and therefore remain open to argument,” he said.

What about arbitration? Do users have to go to Singapore? “If a contract mentions compulsory arbitration, then as a general rule you have to follow it. If the contract mentions Singapore, you have to go to Singapore,” according to Rastogi.

“There are exceptions however. One of those is that if there’s a specialised remedy in a specialised forum, then people may be allowed to take it. They may not be forced into arbitration. So if they go to the consumer court, their case may be accepted despite there being an arbitration clause,” he added.

“It is also possible for the users to argue that the terms of service are a standard-form non-negotiated contract. However, it is only an argument and the court may or may not accept it,” he said.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event