SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: People need to learn about basics of finance and investing
DATE: 2022-02-05
SCORE: 67
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/sl47s3/people_need_to_learn_about_basics_of_finance_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

My parents have fallen prey to shitty scheme as well as outright scams(ponzi schemes). Just found out that they invested in a insurance + money back scheme a decade back, which claims to give 200%+ return. In practice, it's XIRR is just 0.07%.

I can still understand my parents doing this as they are old and not well educated. Also, growing up they didn't have access to the same resources that we have access to.

But I also see well educated folks in their 20s making bad financial choices. To name a few,

1. I found two people who invested in ULIPs, with returns of 6.6%. Given the decades of lock in period, the returns are horrible. Considering inflation rate of 6%, the inflation adjusted XIRR came to less than half a percent. Also, people buying moneyback insurance schemes in general.

2. People being scared of investing in mutual funds, and instead putting all their money in safe investments like FDs and PPF. While these avenues have their value, it makes no sense to put your retirement investment, which is supposed to be withdrawn some 30-40 years later, into FDs.

3. People buying flats as investment. Again, this would be fine if it's 10-20% of their net assets, but I have seen people planning to buy second flat on loans, when they only have emergency funds worth of money elsewhere. This is an invitation to disaster.

4. People buying costly items on EMI as soon as they start earning. This includes cars, phones, laptops, etc. I have seen people joining WITCH companies at 20K salary buying iPhones with first salary.

5. People who don't understand how inflation reduces value of money. That getting a 3% hike when inflation is 12% is technically a salary cut.

6. Many people don't understand tax saving stuff like 80C.

7. People investing through agents and paying unnecessary commission. Not shopping around for policies like car insurance.

People need to learn this stuff. It takes few weekends to understand the basics. You don't need to be analyze stocks to invest in equity, you can simply buy a decent mutual fund, or buy indices(ETFs). Even buying one large cap, one mid cap and one debt fund/ETF based on your goals is a good starting point. Stay away from EMIs as far as possible.

Another issue is with people generally not being clear with what they earn money for. Sure, you have your basic needs, but WHY are you working on a job paying 5x your needs? In other words, why aren't you employed with that NGO you really like for 20% the salary? There must be some reason, right?

If you don't like your job, what are you doing towards not having to do it? If you like what you do, are you working towards doing it for yourself instead of someone else? Do you want to retire early, or maybe you want to travel around the world? Maybe you just want to leave behind as much generational wealth as possible? Whatever it be, there should be a clear understanding as to why you are doing the job you are doing.