SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Evaluation of Education
DATE: 2025-04-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ju6sz4/evaluation_of_education/

--- POST TEXT ---

Note- Long read, sit back, pause/reflect every word.

Background --
(NO FANCY STUFF btw)
Writer, Pursuing graduation.
Experience in JEE/NEET/CA/UPSC curriculum/ and teaching methodologies.
Psych/Phil/CogNeuro enthusiast. Public speaking/Writing comp. experience, 

Who should not read ? CATEGORY 1 -- 

(as this could challenge their preconceived notions of education)
This is not to be read by someone who is actively seeking , ‘how to get xyz marks/ranks, tukka trick, shortcut formula, paper presentation tips, tips/tricks to memorize, most important questions, pyq analysis, package after doing xyz course’., ‘how to make notes’, how to study 22.88 hours a day, how to focus without distraction, how to pass in 10/20/30 hours an exam, how to study in one night and pass xzy exam., how to make 5000000 rupees a a month by xyz work. 

In case the person falling in the above category wishes to proceed, he has my appreciation/salute, to attleast approach something new.

Who should read ? CATEGORY 2 - 
In a few words - ‘a person who investigates, asks a lot of questions, loves understanding material, considers themselves creative, feels suffocated in the following examination-competitive culture, loves abstract thinking, analyzing. Asks a lot of ‘why’ questions, often falling prey to intellectual obsessions and challenging nature.

The following might be completely out of the box/without the box thinking for a few people.

For students who wish to not only crack an exam, but are sincerely considering the idea that the examination(not education) system in INDIA and the over-valuation/ie hype which has been created necessarily shows that it might be a bubble. 

I think I am in a considerable position where I can provide thinking frameworks on problems of students,researchers related to the field of education, training/teaching/placement, learning/studying techniques, writing/articulation, public speaking, debating, as due to the reason of having not minimum education criteria, but due to the fact of engaging myself in conscious observation, studying behaviors of students, mindset/mental pattern/training/conditioning done by the society. 

I would like to categorize the ideas that I have developed in several posts which will be uploaded on several sub reddits which have a positive expectancy and higher chances of probability of student engagement. 

What is my Motive ? Why am I doing this ? What are the factors that are driving me to consider taking this step? 

Here are the following points which I want everyone to consider before we discuss the above.

We need to metabolize(understand) the fact that not every person in the world here is to just make profits/not all startups are initiated to generate revenues and profits, this is an initiative that has been on my mind since a few years, and now , I believe there is no point in delaying this. 

Statement of Purpose 

Dissatisfaction with the current culture, society, norms,ideas, concepts, goals that I am seeing students are setting up, not on their own autonomy/self realization but due to the following reasons.
Peer pressure.
Societal conditioning.
media(films, entertainment)(this be the main driver).
The stories we are telling to ourselves.(narratives)
Over-glorification of material goals over what one truly wants/needs.
Luxury over glorification.
Commercial Capitalization of Education

The person who studies,assuming, ‘Indian economic reforms like LPG’, has no goal of understanding the inners nuts and bolts, mechanics of the following -

What do we mean by economic reforms?

What is LPG, 
Why was it introduced ? , What is a socio-anthropoligcal dimension, and sustainability dimension to it.

To keep it short, we are being trained to ask questions only in a specific direction, and have been asked to avoid questioning/investigation in another particular direction.
Such as ‘How LPG is correlated with over consumption and capitalized monopoly, leading to increased self-harm rates in young male adults’.

Schools/Colleges/Universities most of them are training us to be job ready, which is not problematic in itself, but at the cost of our Curiosity/Emotional health/Autonomy.

By curiosity we are referring to the ability to observe, study, analyze, model what we see, read, write,think, understand.

Basic skills like writing, articulation, speaking, understanding, meta learning have been compromised by over-glorification of the idea of ‘package education’(how to get the highest package i.e. ‘X’, ‘Y’, ‘Z’ Cr, or LPA’.

Please note - There is no negative bias against the idea of ‘earning money for livelihood/well being)’

The following form of structured approach to capitalistic/material prosperity is being derived at the cost of individual liberty, curiosity, drive, passion for a particular subject.

The purpose here is to eliminate/minimize inefficiencies in the current education system, at the most practical and doable level, without need of any legal/political authority and even ensure we as students are able to do what we truly want to(passion), versus what the community/market is trying to make us do(profession).

⇒ Here are a few common observations of issues faced by students.

How to know your purpose in life.
Passion vs Profession.
Money vs Passion.
Balancing passion and profession.
How to discover your interests/talents.

Procrastination.
How to be productive, how to manage time.
How to overcome laziness.

Relationship(to be or not)
Low mood and energy.
Panic/anxiety.
Unable to memorize, rote learn, hate it. 
How to make money as a student ?(the most overglorified scam).
XYZ vs ABC vs PQR career.
‘Don't feel like studying’
Should I quit studying.

I do not wish to become a guide/mentor to people, all I have desire is as follows 
Help people make independent decisions by asking questions, and investigating the root of desires/fears/
Teach people how to think while making a decision.
Become independent and solve the dilemmas of life/academics on their own.

The main idea is that no student approaching me should become dependent on any person, but be an independent rational thinker and take the decisions of life on their own without any external support.
Idea is to not spoon-feed solutions to students, but help them understand where the issue is coming from, what are some similar situations, how to deal with them, without ever having the need to rely on any source. 

How to openly form opinions about taking decisive action , like choosing a career. 

We are being openly taught effective memorization techniques like how to memorize by mnemonics, rote learn, how to wake up, but I see a serious gap in the current system where people are shying away from asking questions such as -

‘What is probability(math), what is its history, why am i learning this, how will this be useful to me’.
Why was the idea of debits/credits being introduced ? Who is the giver/recevier, 
What after all is ‘learning’, what after all is ‘memory’, why do we memorize, why appear for a competitive exam, what is a competitive exam after all. 

This might not be for someone who is actively seeking , ‘how to get xyz marks/ranks, tukka trick, shortcut formula, paper presentation tips, tips/tricks to memorize, most important questions, pyq analysis’.

Here my sole aim is to provide mental models for decision making.

The purpose here is to equip people with mental models/decision making framework, which might be helpful to them.

In case this was a mis-allocation of your precious time, please accept my apologies.

Any person who is suffocated by the systematization of education can feel free to communicate, share opinions and thoughts on this.