SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Amazon Phone Delivery Scam: Mumbai Police Jai Ho! Culprits caught within 24 hours 
DATE: 2025-01-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hsneot/amazon_phone_delivery_scam_mumbai_police_jai_ho/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, here's the probably the final update I'm gonna add for scam, until and unless Amazon does some more skullduggery. 

In less than 24 hours after contacting Senior Police Inspector of Bangur Nagar Station, Mumbai, Mr. Anil Thakre, he wholeheartedly cooperated with me, and Assistant Police Inspector from Cybercell, Mr. Vivek Vijay Tambe, got on the case, took my statement and assured me that they'll be caught. 

And guess what, before it was afternoon the next day, they had nabbed culprits, and then before the evening, they had confessions and everything done. Phone is untampered and sealed, they'll hand it over to me in a few days after their process is done. 

The delivery guy was opening all secure packages, and the ones that didn't contain anything valuable, they would be sent back marked as refused by customer, which is probably what happened to my previous order of HEPA filter which never even got to me. The valuable ones, those he would keep, and if anyone was alerted, he would pass onto someone else, pay them and ask them to deliver it without informing them what's what. That's the case with the second guy who came. That's the official case as it was revealed. 

The first guy who came is the culprit, and his brother actually came to my place pleading, but here's the thing, not only should he have not done that, I can't actually do anything. It's not upto me to take back the FIR. I can't. 

This delivery guy has actually done this in the past and Amazon refunded the customers, that delivery agency had to shut down. Now he was doing it her but was caught because I refused to accept the second parcel. 

Amazon's role here is clear though, they're negligent in hiring, ensuring checks on agencies, and then it seems like they got tired of footing the bill for scams, so it has been now been put on the customers. 

Which sucks! Most definitely. I'll have to consider whether I want to take Amazon to consumer court now and spend energy and time there. They even added restrictions to my account even though I was the victim. 

Meanwhile, my advice would be if this happens to you, record evidence and go to the police station. Not everything is optimally done online. Apparently, that includes ordering anything from Scamazon now, but okay, go to the station and to the Cybercell, and yes, Cybercell will also investigate such cases. 

It's upto us now to clean up the act here because Amazon has given up it seems. Doesn't mean they aren't guilty of negligence and deficiency in service, but that's a consumer court matter. 

I need to sketch and paint some electric Pokémon now, and I'll focus on that! ⚡

Good luck, and stay safe!