SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Fake COVID Test reports by THYROCARE Agent
DATE: 2021-03-12
SCORE: 25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/m3ebyc/fake_covid_test_reports_by_thyrocare_agent/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello
I recently had 4 RTPCR tests done by a THYROCARE collection agent, I reached out to him by finding his number on google as the closet THYROCARE collection centre. They came and took the samples and money but did not provide a receipt even on asking and told it would be provided with report delivery. 

The reports turned out negative and were delivered next day on WhatsApp which looked clearly photoshopped and edited. The barcodes could not be verified by THYROCARE WhatsApp support number and they started an investigation. 

The guy took 4900 from me and upon bringing that to his attention that I know it’s fake he returned be 4800 over the period of 3 days and several phone calls nagging him. When asked for the last 100₹ he talked very rudely saying “konse 100₹” (Translation: What 100₹). 
He had the courage to talk in that tone after scamming me and even though I have all evidence. And after the 100₹ talk he refused to pick up my calls. 

My dad advised me to drop it and that it’s not worth my time for 100₹ he never sent back. The guy looks to be from the bad part of the city and there’s always an uncertainty what’s going on in the other person’s mind specially of these scammers who might have taken an offence. 

Later on, we had the tests done at a reputed lab and all 4 turned out positive. Only had it been done earlier when we intended to test a lot of hospitalisation charges could have been avoided. 

tTHYROCARE complain center initially did not help with automated kinda bullshit replies but then started calling me asking for the person’s contact info and name but abiding by my Dads statement I told them I will send the contact info if I feel so. 

I don’t want to make the matter big because I have no time but because of the nature of the transaction it left me feeling sick, first the fucker scams me, does not return the money fully and even though I have his job by the balls ( which he probably does not realise ) used that tone. 

I could let it go but my family is hospitalised due to COVID and I’m afraid it has already happened to 100s of other people these guys scammed and will keep happening till someone puts a stop to this. 

I know it was my fault for not checking the authenticity by accepting a receipt on payment or make no payment but due to the deteriorating health of my family members we did not think much about it until it was done. And he is an actual employee collection agent of Thyrocare. I think I’m allowing more people to be scammed just because of not reporting it. 

Should I go ahead and spill the beans with evidence to thyrocare or should I just let it go? 

He has also got our adhar card scans which I told him to delete on accepting my money back from him and he said twice that he has deleted them. 

What should be the best course of action?

Should I call him up and let him know they’re asking for his info so he’s cautious and never tires to fuck up with my adhar info or anything or should I let it go? Or should I spill the beans?