V. KAMESWAR RAO, J 1. The present petition has been filed by the petitioner with
 the following prayers: 2. It is the case of the petitioner in the writ petition that it
 had on December 17, 2008 entered into a facility agreement with
 State Bank of India, State Bank of Mysore, State Bank of Indore,
 Dena Bank, Bank of India and Vijaya Bank (hereinafter referred
 as „Consortium Lenders‟) for providing term loan facility of `250
 crores. The State Bank of India was appointed as the lead Bank. That pursuant to the said facility agreement, the consortium
 lenders entered into Inter creditor Agreements on December 17,
 2008, August 28, 2010 and finally May 29, 2012. That additional
 Inter Creditor Agreement dated August 28, 2010 was executed on
 account of an additional facility granted by the consortium
 lenders of `52 Crores. An additional facility agreement was
 granted by the State Bank of India in the form of a bank
 guarantee of `10 Crores. The final Inter Creditor Agreement
 dated May 29, 2012 was executed on account of a Facility
 Agreement dated May 29, 2012 executed between the petitioner
 and the consortium lenders to inter-alia synchronize the
 repayment schedule / resetting of term loan repayment
 installments sanctioned and disbursed by the consortium lenders,
 which in effect novate the terms of the foregoing facility
 agreements. The said final facility agreement was conceived to
 cover the cumulative amount of money lent by the consortium
 lenders in the sum of `312 Crores. 3. It is the case of the petitioner that in terms of the recitals
 F, G, H, I and J of the final facility agreement, the consortium
 lenders were to act in consonance such that any such action must
 be initiated by the lead bank or lenders‟ agent. It is averred that
 the petitioner was servicing the facility provided by the
 consortium lenders, since the commencement of repayment
 schedule, as per the facility agreement, in October 2010 till July
 2012. It is, however, due to unavoidable and unforeseen
 circumstances, inter-alia inordinate delays in grant of various
 licenses and completion certificate by Delhi Development W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 3 of 45 Authority and unplanned opening of hotels in Aerocity due to
 which the inventory of rooms in Delhi doubled. The final license
 was granted by Delhi Pollution Control Committee on July 10,
 2013. These events eventually led to financial stress for the
 petitioner, compounded by the continued mounting of interest, as
 a consequence of which the consortium lenders classified the
 credit facilities sanctioned by them as NPA on July 29, 2012. 4. It is the case of the petitioner that in the interregnum
 between the declaration of NPA, dated July 29, 2012 and the
 agreed repayment plan dated February 01, 2017 a number of
 assignments of interests took place pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial
 Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. It is
 stated that the State Bank of India assigned its interest to
 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited; State Bank of
 Mysore assigned its interest to Edelweiss by way of assignment
 deed; Vijaya Bank assigned its interest to Phoenix ARC Private
 Limited; Bank of India assigned its interest to Alchemist Asset
 Reconstruction Company Limited. 5. It is the case of the petitioner that the respondent No.2,
 erstwhile Dena Bank had retained their interest in the facility till
 November 29, 2018 when it had conducted an e-auction for sale
 of asset to potential Securitization Company / Reconstruction
 Company, and the respondent No.3 Edelweiss Asset
 Reconstruction Company Limited thereby selected as the highest
 bidder. It is averred that pursuant to negotiations with Edelweiss
 and intricate financial modelling to arrive at a restructuring W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 4 of 45 scheme, a restructuring proposal was made by the petitioner to
 Edelweiss and finally it was decided for repayment of the amount
 of `450 Crores; with `185 Crores as cash generated from Hotel
 operations and rental income; `100 Crores as net sale proceeds of
 commercial premises; `50 Crores as property tax, insurance,
 capex, repairs and refurbishment, `235 crores as cash flow for
 debt service and `215 crores as refinance. It is stated in the
 petition that in the e-mail dated February 01, 2017 the petitioner
 was advised to continue to make payments pursuant to the
 restructuring proposal, which the petitioner had accepted. It is
 the case of the petitioner that placing reliance on the said e-mail,
 the petitioner believed that other members of the consortium
 consented for the agreed repayment plan and therefore, it
 continued to make payments in accordance thereof, inasmuch as
 `15,98,76,393 has been paid by the petitioner. 6. According to the petitioner, similar e-mails were
 exchanged between the petitioner and Phoenix ACR, in their
 capacity as assignees of the interest which was previously held by
 Vijaya Bank, in the consortium debt, during June and July 2017
 wherein executives of Phoenix ACR had advised the petitioner of
 their intention to seriously consider and possibly accept the
 restructuring proposal and that the petitioner would likewise
 make payments in accordance therewith. It is averred that a W.P.
 (C) 939/2018 was filed before this Court by one Abhishek
 Sehrawat titled as Abhishek Sehrawat v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi
 and Ors. wherein the petitioner, herein, was arrayed as a
 respondent which first came up for hearing on February 02, 2018 W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 5 of 45 alleging that the petitioner‟s hotel did not comply with fire safety
 regulations, and that there was a petrol pump in the south west
 proximity of the said hotel. That in the subsequent hearing
 strictures were passed against the petitioner therein along with his
 counsel for having mislead the Court and abusing the process of
 law to resolve some personal property dispute with the petitioner.
 The writ petition was dismissed in limine. 7. It is also stated that same Abhishek Sehrawat has made a
 complaint against Subhash Dabas, director of petitioner Company
 to the consortium of lenders alleging fraud committed by
 petitioner. The petitioner was informed of the said complaint in
 the JLF meeting dated July 06, 2018 and accordingly was
 requested to furnish specific reply on specific queries which have
 been raised by the members of the JLF pursuant to the said
 complaint. A reference is made to Abhishek Sehrawat being an
 unscrupulous person, and the fact that he is accused of offences
 of criminal conspiracy, abduction etc. and filing of FIR
 No.163/2010 against him. It is averred that in the Joint Lenders‟
 Meeting held on July 06, 2018 the restructuring proposal was also
 discussed and all lenders, excluding Dena Bank, expressed
 interest in accepting the said proposal subject to certain minor
 alterations. In the meantime, the petitioner sent a detailed letter
 on July 09, 2018 with supporting documents to respondent Nos.2,
 3 and 4 to clarify its position on the frivolous complaint made by
 Abhishek Sehrawat. It is stated that the respondent No.3 leader
 of the consortium and respondent No.4 along with Phoenix ARC
 holding 80% of the total consortium debt, were satisfied by the W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 6 of 45 letter given by the petitioner explaining the correct facts on the
 contents of the frivolous complaint and the lenders subsequently
 closed the complaint without any further investigation; whereas
 the respondent No.2 appointed Messrs. M.K. Aggarwal and
 Company to conduct forensic audit of the petitioner. In the
 meantime, the respondent No.4 had in-principle gave its approval
 to the restructuring plan as proposed by the petitioner vide its
 letter dated July 26, 2018. Even the lenders‟ agent i.e. Edelweiss
 also issued a letter, dated August 16, 2018 to the petitioner
 wherein Edelweiss has considered the restructuring proposal
 submitted by the petitioner and communicated their agreement to
 restructuring the existing liability as due to it. During the Joint
 Lenders‟ Meeting held on September 07, 2018 it requested that
 the respondent No.2 to consider the restructuring proposed by
 company and not to file the insolvency application. 8. It is the case of the petitioner that that the respondent
 No.2 erstwhile Dena Bank sometime in the month of August
 2018, not heeding to the request of leader of consortium and
 other members, filed an application under Section 7 of the
 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 before the NCLT, New
 Delhi, wherein notice was issued to the petitioner herein on
 August 10, 2018. On receipt of the above said notice, the
 petitioner approached the respondent No.2 erstwhile Dena Bank
 and further to their discussions provided them with the details of
 all payments made by them to all members of the consortium, in
 their letter dated September 10, 2018. It was also stated in the
 letter that the petitioner has made payments in accordance with W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 7 of 45 the terms of the agreed restructuring plan until the end of the
 financial year 2017-018. It is also averred that on August 28,
 2018 the respondent No.2 provided the petitioner‟s a copy of a
 report of Forensic Audit conducted by Messrs. M.K. Aggarwal
 and Company Chartered Accountants, as appointed by
 respondent No.2 (erstwhile Dena Bank) and sought responses /
 comments from the petitioner in respect of the reported
 preliminary observations / clarifications sought, within three days
 of the receipt of the same. The petitioner sent a letter dated
 October 01, 2018 to the respondent No.2 on the clarifications
 sought regarding the sale of its property and payments made to
 the consortium. 9. It is the case of the petitioner that it had been specifically
 clarified that the payment of `71,07,49,655/- has been made by
 the petitioner to the consortium of banks in the financial year
 2010-11 and 2011-12 as opposed to receipt from sale of the said
 property of `17.60 Crores. In other words, it was clarified that
 the receipt was used towards repayments which were due to the
 consortium lenders. It is stated that upon the receipt of the said
 clarification, the Forensic Auditors, Messrs. M.K. Aggarwal and
 Company appointed by the respondent No.2 issued a letter dated
 October 08, 2018 providing their response to a letter dated
 October 04, 2018 wherein they have inter-alia stated that they
 have gone through the letter submitted by party i.e. petitioner
 herein dated October 01, 2018 to the bank explaining the
 remittance made to consortium of banks during the period 2010
 to 2012 amounting to `71.07 Crores, and the amount of `17.16 W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 8 of 45 Crores received on account of sale proceeds of commercial space
 has been verified from their files which were received in the bank
 accounts of the party. The petitioner also referred to a letter dated
 October 15, 2018 of Messrs. M.K. Aggarwal and Company to the
 respondent No.2 (erstwhile Dena Bank) wherein they have stated
 that nowhere during the period covered under audit, they have
 come across any diversion of funds and therefore, it did not find
 mention in their forensic audit report. It is also stated that the
 matter regarding forensic audit of the party i.e. petitioner need no
 further submissions by them and the same be closed without any
 further reference to them. 10. It is the case of the petitioner that upon further enquiry
 from the Dena Bank, the petitioner again provided further
 clarifications, regarding the sale of a non-core asset / property
 belonging to the petitioner in the year 2011-012 when the
 petitioner stated that it had received `17.60 Crores by way of sale
 consideration and that the entire amount had been utilized
 towards making a pari-passu repayment to all members of the
 consortium loan. The petitioner again provided a break up of all
 receipts and payments made during that period showing
 application of the said funds, in its letter to the Dena Bank dated
 January 29, 2019. It is averred that the Joint Lenders on February
 01, 2019 in their meeting acknowledged the stand of the Dena
 Bank, that they have put the account of the petitioner on sale in
 December 2018 and Edelweiss ARC was the highest bidder for
 this account but the sale is yet to be concluded as Dena Bank
 requires RBI approval for the sale of this account. Meanwhile, W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 9 of 45 EARC had required Dena Bank to expedite to resolve the queries
 raised by the RBI to enable quick consummation of the
 assignment transaction. It is averred that on February 18, 2019
 despite the aforesaid understanding due to the inadvertent lack of
 instructions on the part of the learned counsel appearing for the
 Dena Bank before the NCLT the matter was heard and judgment
 was reserved. 11. It is stated by the petitioner that as per some information
 orally made available by the Dena Bank that it had mistakenly
 and prematurely, without a cause of action, reported the account
 as fraud to the RBI sometime in October 2018 and then
 immediately accepted its mistake by withdrawing the fraud
 reported to RBI on the basis of final report of forensic auditor.
 The report of the forensic auditor appointed by the Dena Bank
 exonerated the petitioner of any diversion of funds. It is averred
 that the respondent No.1 purportedly is investigating the
 allegations of fraud in the account / transfer pertaining to the
 petitioner albeit without there being any formal pending
 complaint qua the petitioner by any stakeholder. It is averred that
 the petitioner vide its letter dated March 01, 2019 had sought for
 an update from the Dena Bank about the status of query pending
 with the respondent No.1 pertaining to petitioner‟s account. That
 apart, it is stated by the petitioner that the actions of the
 respondent Nos.1 and 2 are totally alien to the scheme of the
 master directions on frauds promulgated by the respondent No.1
 itself dated July 01, 2016 (as a last update on July 03, 2017)
 wherein the approval of the respondent No.1 is not a prerequisite W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 10 of 45 to accept the assignment. It is the case of the petitioner that as
 the respondent No.1 has still not taken a final decision pertaining
 to some issues, on the sale of the loan account of the petitioner
 belonging to the Dena Bank where a bid has been received from
 the respondent No.3 and has been admittedly accepted as the
 highest bid by the Dena Bank everything has come to a halt. 12. It is the case of the petitioner that when the respondent
 No.3 is keen to assume assignment of the interest held by the
 Dena Bank, and accordingly extended the already formulated
 restructuring plan which it had also accepted for its existing
 interest, amounting to 47.30% of the total debt, there is no reason
 why the assessment be accepted otherwise grave prejudice would
 certainly be fall the petitioner and respondent Nos.3 and 4. It is
 the case of the petitioner that proposed restructuring plan had
 stipulated the sale of non-core asset / property belonging to the
 petitioner to reduce the exposure of all consortium lenders, on a
 pari-passu basis, and whereas the petitioner was keen to dispose
 of the said asset in accordance with the restructuring plan and
 whereas the petitioner had also identified a potential purchaser,
 the requisite approval was withheld by the respondent No.2,
 (erstwhile Dena Bank) on account of some queries on the
 petitioner‟s account pending with itself, as raised by the
 respondent No.1. The petitioner had also on February 19, 2019
 sent a letter to the Dena Bank requesting them to expedite the
 process of resolution of the queries raised by the respondent
 No.1. The petitioner had also made known to the Dena Bank that
 due to the pending resolution of queries by the Dena Bank (Dena W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 11 of 45 Bank) to the respondent No.1 the entire process of sale of
 commercial asset to the potential buyer, as per the requirements
 of the restructuring proposal has come to a standstill. In was in
 this background that the aforesaid writ petition has been filed. 13. Counter affidavit has been filed by the respondent No.1
 Reserve Bank of India wherein it is stated that it is a statutory
 Corporation constituted by the provisions of Section 3 of the
 Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 for the purpose of regulating the
 issue of Bank Notes and keeping of reserves with a view to
 securing the monetary stability in India and generally to operate
 currency and credit system of the country. It is also stated that
 under the Banking Regulation Act it has been vested with various
 powers to determine Banking Policy in the interest of banking
 system. It is also stated, being the regulator and supervisor of
 banks in the country, RBI had issued many instructions to banks
 sensitizing them against banking frauds and to have deterrent
 systems against such frauds. The RBI had referred to the circular
 dated March 22, 2001 on frauds including the circulars issued on
 the subject till that date. In 2016, RBI has started issuing Master
 Directions on each subject matter covering all instructions on that
 subject. The master directions are being updated suitably
 whenever there is a change in the policy. It has also referred to
 the master circular issued on July 01, 2016 which is a updation of
 the circular dated July 01, 2015. It also stated that a subsequent
 updation was made on July 02, 2017. 14. According to RBI, if the bank identifies an account as
 fraud, then it is to be reported to RBI and to the investigating W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 12 of 45 agencies. Once a fraud is reported by a bank, it is important that
 other banks are sensitize regarding the fraud. In this regard, RBI
 issues Caution Advices (CA) to the banks mentioning the details
 about the concerned borrowers and related parties and also about
 the modus operandi of the reported fraud, so that banks can
 exercise due diligence while dealing with the entities / individuals
 mentioned in the CA. In January 2016, Central Fraud Registry
 (CFR) a web enabled database of frauds, reported by banks,
 replaced the issuing of Caution Advices, with a few exceptions.
 Access to CFR has been given only to the banks and select
 Financial Institutions. The Reserve Bank of India seeks to
 protect the banking system from being exploited by fraudsters,
 more than one and by using the modus operandi used on the first
 occasion again, elsewhere. The RBI has stated that it does not
 assess whether every report is accurate or not. The CFR made
 available to other banks is expressly for providing critical
 information for aiding credit assessment. The RBI does not
 impose a bar on extension of credit or banking facilities merely
 on the reporting of a fraud. The dissemination of the fraud report
 among banks is meant to facilitate exercise of caution by other
 banks about the reported fraudster and the modus operandi
 followed. 15. In the case in hand, the erstwhile Dena Bank had reported
 fraud in the account of the petitioner. Subsequently, they had
 vide their letter dated October 26, 2018 approached the RBI with
 a request to withdraw the FMR Report. Reserve Bank had
 carefully considered its request and observed that besides, W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 13 of 45 irregularities in the petitioner‟s account, perceptible gaps /
 inconsistencies is in the internal control mechanism as also
 absence of due approval from the competent authority of the bank
 in seeking permission from RBI, for withdrawal of the said FMR.
 In view of this, request of the Dena Bank has been rejected. The
 Dena Bank was also advised to review the case in its Special
 Committee of the Board of Large Value frauds, for appropriate
 action. They have stated that vide para 9.2 of Master Direction
 on Frauds Classification and Reporting by commercial banks and
 select FIs dated July 01, 2016 as updated on July 03, 2017, the
 RBI had advised the bank to properly ascertain that the pool of
 assets being sold to asset reconstruction companies does not
 contain any loan originated fraudulently or has been classified as
 fraud as on the date of sale. 16. The respondent No.2 Bank of Baroda in its counter
 affidavit has taken a preliminary objection on the maintainability
 to the petition, as the petitioner is neither the assignor nor the
 assignee of the account. Hence, as such there are no direct stakes
 which could have been affected or become ground to maintain
 the present petition under Article 226. In other words, no right of
 the present petitioner has ever been violated, either by the
 assignor or the assignee. That apart, it is stated the reliefs are not
 maintainable. The commercial disputes cannot be raised under
 extra ordinary jurisdiction. On merit it is the case, that the
 assignor i.e. Dena Bank was of the opinion that there had been
 some element of fraud. The matter was therefore reported to
 RBI. The petitioner has no prerogative to challenge the reporting W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 14 of 45 or even the subsequent withdrawal. 17. It is stated that as per the policies of the assignor the
 account having element of fraud cannot be assigned. The
 transaction otherwise was supposed to be completed within 60
 days after opening the bid. The financing bank therefore was
 very much within its right to proceed under IBC, 2016. The
 petition under Section 7 has already been entertained and could
 have been dealt with to its finality in terms of the orders passed
 by the NCLT on April 09, 2019. 18. It is stated that it is the prerogative of the assignor or the
 assignee to call off the transaction since it was only at the bidding
 stage. No case can be set up having facts and the circumstances
 or even the relief purely on commercial basis. All issues
 remained open and ample opportunities have been afforded to the
 petitioner under the IBC, 2016. Not even one ground has been
 urged in the present petition which may question maintainability
 of the proceedings before NCLT. Even otherwise it is stated that
 the assignor and assignee had already understood the terms of the
 tendered documents which of course included that the transaction
 should have been through within 60 days and also that it could
 have been called off anytime depending upon the facts of the
 case. That apart, it is stated that the fraud was reported on
 September 25, 2018. Thereafter, the withdrawal was of course
 moved on October 26, 2018 i.e. well before the e-auction on
 November 29, 2018. However, it may be noted that 60 days have
 already passed after November 29, 2018. 19. Even otherwise, it is a fact that the withdrawal dated W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 15 of 45 October 26, 2018 was not accorded and the same was rejected. It
 is also stated that certain properties were found to have been
 transacted by the promoters to their own relatives for a
 consideration which was opined to not have been sufficient. The
 reflection of sale consideration also remained questionable. The
 explanations were however sought and based upon the same the
 assignor / the lending bank found it appropriate to withdraw the
 reporting of fraud hence an attempt was made vide
 communication dated October 26, 2018. SUBMISSIONS: 20. Mr. Parag P. Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel appearing
 for the petitioner at the outset stated that the petitioner shall
 maintain the writ petition with regard to prayer „b‟ and „c‟ of the
 writ petition. In other words, the petitioner has given up the
 prayer „a‟ which is primarily directed against the respondent
 No.1. According to Mr. Tripathi that the present petition is
 directed against the Bank of Baroda (as Dena Bank stands
 merged) as the erstwhile Dena Bank has not taken any decision
 on the bids invited by it for sale / transfer of the debt of
 respondent No.2 in favour of the petitioner to respondent No.3
 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited. 21. It was the submission of Mr. Tripathi that the Dena Bank
 being an instrumentality of State had to act responsibly in
 conformity with Article 14 of the Constitution which necessitates
 that its decisions are to be tested by the application of
 Wednesbury principle of reasonableness. He stated that neither
 does the Dena Bank in its counter affidavit pleaded unequivocally W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 16 of 45 that the right to cancel the auction process was ever in fact
 exercised, nor has it placed any other document / pleading on the
 record to show such a decision ever having been taken and / or
 communicated to any party. 22. He stated that sub clause 27 of clause V gives the
 absolute discretion to the assignor to reject a tender, but the same
 does not give any arbitrary power to it to reject a bid either by a
 party merely it has that power. He also stated that even the plea
 of Mr. Arun Aggarwal, learned counsel for the respondent No.2
 that, upon expiry of 60 days from the date of auction of bid is
 automatically stands cancelled is also unsustainable, inasmuch as
 this argument of Mr. Aggarwal is not supported by any file
 noting or minutes of meeting to show that the decision to reject
 the bid of Edelweiss / cancel the bid was taken on that basis. In
 this regard, he stated that while auction took place on November
 29, 2018, but on the 64th day dated February 01, 2019 Dena Bank
 at a Joint Lenders‟ Forum Meeting stated that it had put the
 petitioner‟s loan for sale and Edelweiss was the highest bidder,
 but the sale is yet to be concluded as Dena Bank requires RBI
 approval for the sale of this account. Hence, the Dena Bank
 having itself alluded to the sale not having come to an end on the
 60th day, it should certainly imply that such a period was not
 sacrosanct. The submission of Mr. Tripathi was that the rejection
 of Dena Bank‟s withdrawal letter dated October 26, 2018 by RBI
 is inconsequential as its rejection of the withdrawal was not
 because RBI find any fraud in the accounts maintained by the
 petitioner but because the request was not made by an authorized W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 17 of 45 officer. That apart, even RBI‟s affidavit makes it clear that it is
 treating the account of the petitioner only as "irregular".
 Therefore, the Dena Bank cannot take any benefit of this self-
 induced and self-created wrong viz issuing the withdrawal letter
 by a person or officer who does not have the authority to do so. 23. It was his submission that Edelweiss the highest bidder in
 Dena Bank‟s e-auction has continued to express its keenness to
 take over the interest of Dena Bank. In that regard, he had
 referred to the minutes of JLF meeting dated February 01, 2019
 wherein the Edelweiss had requested Dena Bank to expedite to
 resolve the queries raised by the RBI and also referred to letter
 dated February 28, 2019 of Edelweiss writing to the petitioner
 stating that they are the largest lender with 47.30% share in total
 debt and assure extension of the same restructuring plan to the
 said interest pending assignment, but since Dena Bank needed
 RBI‟s approval to assign the account to Edelweiss, the
 acquisition transaction is still pending. 24. That apart, it was his submission that even the procedure
 prescribed by the RBI master directions on closure of frauds
 would not be triggered in the present case since the forensic
 auditors declared that there were no traces of fraud in the
 petitioner‟s account. In this regard, he would rely on the
 judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Apple Sponge
 And Power Ltd. and Ors. v. RBI, W.P. (C) 306/2019 dated
 February 15, 2019. 25. It was the submission of Mr. Tripathi that even the
 forensic auditors were required to be appointed in consultation W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 18 of 45 with other members of the joint lender forum, the same was not
 done by Dena Bank. Further the account of the petitioner stands
 restructured, and there is no default at present, therefore, no cause
 for Dena Bank to pursue an application for insolvency resolution
 before the NCLT in respect of the petitioner. In this regard, he
 would rely upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case
 of Dharani Sugars and Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India and
 Others , W.P. (C) 1460/2018 to contend that as the circular dated
 February 12, 2018 stands ultra vires today and as such, the
 erstwhile circulars which were repealed would naturally be
 reinstated. According to him, one of the circulars mentioned in
 Annexure - 3 viz. Timelines for Stressed Assets Resolution dated
 May 05, 2017 (r/w Framework for Revitalizing Distressed Assets
 in the Economy- Guidelines of Joint Lenders‟ Forum and
 Corrective Action Plan dated February 26, 2014), facilitates
 timely implementation of a corrective action plan to preserve the
 economic value of stressed assets. Clause 4 of the circular dated
 May 05, 2017 reiterates that lenders must scrupulously adhere to
 the timelines prescribed in the Framework for finalizing and
 implementing the CAP. To facilitate timely decision making, the
 decisions agreed upon by a minimum of 60 % of creditors by
 value and 50% of creditors by number of the JLF would be
 considered as the basis for deciding the CAP, and will be binding
 on all lenders, subject to the exit (by substitution) option
 available in the Framework. Lenders shall ensure that their
 representatives in the JLF are equipped with appropriate
 mandates, and that decisions taken at the JLF are implemented by W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 19 of 45 the lenders within the timelines. In the present case, the
 petitioner has the majority lender‟s approval up to 63.7%
 (47.30% of Edelweiss ARC and 16.40% of Alchemist ARC).
 Therefore, the application before the NCLT is, in light of the
 restructuring, not maintainable, rather the delay being caused on
 account of Dena Bank‟s pending approval with RBI is stultifying
 the ability of the petitioner from performing in accordance with
 the restructuring package. 26. He would rely upon the following judgments in support
 of his contentions: 27. On the other hand, Mr. Suhail Dutt, learned Senior
 Counsel appearing for RBI has stated that the present petition is
 not maintainable as no writ or direction can be issued to the effect
 that a debt owed by a borrower to a bank be assigned to a third
 party unless the assignor is ready and willing to do so. According
 to him, admittedly Bank of Baroda / erstwhile Dena Bank had not W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 20 of 45 entered into any binding contract with the respondent No.3 for
 the assignment of the debt owed by the petitioner to the Bank.
 He stated that without prejudice to the above, in any case only
 prayer (a) is directed against the respondent No.1 which is
 misconceived and untenable in law and in fact given up during
 arguments. It was submitted that permission of RBI is not
 required to be taken for assignment of debt. RBI has issued a
 master direction on frauds classification and reporting under Section 35 A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 in public
 interest. It provides procedure relating to reporting of fraud by
 banks in any loan account maintainable by the said bank. The
 purpose inter alia of the said directions is for banks to identify
 fraud accounts and report the same to Central Fraud Registry
 (CFR) under para 3.1 so that other banks are cautioned in regard
 to the critical information about the said accounts so reported. 28. It was further submitted that the erstwhile Dena Bank had
 reported fraud in the account of the petitioner on September 25,
 2018. Subsequently, a withdrawal letter was received by the RBI
 on October 26, 2018. However, after careful consideration, it
 was observed that there were irregularities in the petitioner‟s
 account and perceptible gaps / inconsistences in internal control
 mechanism. Furthermore, due approval from the competent
 authority of the Bank in seeking permission from RBI for
 withdrawal of the said FMR was also absent. Thus, the same was
 rightly rejected and erstwhile Dena Bank was advised to review
 the case in its Special Committee of the Board on Large Value
 Frauds for appropriate action. 29. It was stated by Mr. Dutt that the RBI vide para 9.2 of
 master direction on frauds classification and reporting, has
 advised the banks to properly ascertain that the pool of assets
 being sold to assets reconstruction companies such as respondent
 No.3 does not contain any loan originated fraudulently or has
 been classified as fraud as on the date of sale. 30. In view of the foregoing, the present writ petition is not
 maintainable and in any event no relief can be granted against the
 respondent No.1 RBI. Therefore, the present writ petition as
 against the RBI is liable to be dismissed. 31. Mr. Arun Aggarwal, learned counsel appearing for the
 Dena Bank now Bank of Baroda in terms of the amended memo
 of parities has stated that this petition has been preferred by the
 petitioner mainly for prayers (b) and (c) as during arguments
 prayer (a) was not really insisted in view of certain facts or
 otherwise, therefore mainly prayer (b) and (c) remains to be
 considered. Prayer (c) may be taken as almost dependent on
 prayer (b) but independently the prayer (c) would not be
 maintainable in view of the specific provision under IBC, 2016. 32. He further stated that the admitted factual position would
 remain, that an attempt was made by respondent No.2, being
 erstwhile Dena Bank now Bank of Baroda, to assign the account
 of petitioner to respondent No.3 in view of the best bid. Interalia
 the terms and conditions stipulated, the offer to assign would
 remain alive for 60 days. It remains a fact that the respondent
 No.2 was at a given point of time had huge debt to be brought
 down hence was assigning the debts. The auditor of respondent W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 22 of 45 No.2 pointed out certain discrepancies and therefore before
 assignment respondent No.2 sought permission from respondent
 No.1 for its approval for continuing with the assignment though
 later on the permission was withdrawn based upon certain
 observations by the auditor. The withdrawal however, not
 permitted by respondent No.1. Before assignment respondent
 No.2 had already preferred O.A. No.327 of 2016 titled as Dena
 Bank v. Triupati Buildings and Offices Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. inter
 alia for issuance of R.C. in the sum of `1,19,76,22,073.21/- along
 with interest w.e.f. March 29, 2016 and the OA is now next listed
 for completion of evidence. With the introduction of IBC 2016
 the respondent No.2 preferred petition under Section 7 being
 Company petitioner (IB) -952 (PB) /2018, which now next listed
 on July 04, 2019 and was at the stage of pronouncement of final
 order. As such the Section 7 petition is about a hearing away
 from attaining finality. 33. It is stated that the major events which took place in
 between would therefore remain; preferring of Section 7 petition
 and above all the merger of respondent No.2 w.e.f. April 01,
 2019 with Bank of Baroda in terms of gazette notification dated
 January 02, 2019. The reasons and purpose of merger which are
 widely discussed and are available in public domain are that
 somehow the erstwhile Dena Bank had a weaker balance sheet
 hence required to be merged with a bank having not so weak
 balance sheet. Therefore, the merger took place and the present
 petition was listed on April 03, 2019 having been filed
 somewhere on April 01, 2019 after supplying advance copy. 34. It was further submitted by Mr. Aggarwal that the
 petitioner except for its commercial interest would have nothing
 to bring the petition under the extra ordinary umbrella of Article 226. The petitioner at no stage could bring any document on
 record that the transaction of assignment would never be
 agreeable to by respondent No.2 even if the board of directors
 and other contemporary circumstances have changed. 35. He submitted that it is an admitted position that the
 decision was taken for merging the erstwhile Dena Bank in view
 of its balance sheet and financial status. The merger has already
 taken place. Respondent No.2 in fact remain nonexistence but in
 view of scheme notified vide gazette dated January 02, 2019 all
 assets, litigations, contracts have been taken over as it is by the
 bank being Bank of Baroda. Now the financial status of Bank of
 Baroda is altogether different than the erstwhile Dena Bank. Not
 only the board of directors have changed, policy is also different
 with the Bank of Baroda and in view of absence of any concluded
 contract between respondent Nos.2 and 3 even respondent No.3
 find it difficult to maintain any litigation against respondent No.2.
 The impression is being created as if the erstwhile Dena Bank
 after merger with Bank of Baroda is perhaps indulging in
 encashing situation for its monetary benefit. Purely it was a
 commercial decision to offer particular account or any account
 for assignment. The same could have been recalled at any stage.
 The tender document clearly stipulates: 36. He stated that there is no concluded contract within the
 stipulated period however the respondent No.2 has always been
 open for any discussion since the same could have been and were
 apparently so allowed without again any obligation either on
 respondent Nos.2 and 3. Even for a minute it is concluded that
 respondent No.2 is trying to indulge in protecting or resiling from
 alleged commitment at any stage, even withdrawal by respondent
 No.2 is already embedded within the terms of assignment. The
 withdrawal could have happened at any point of time. The
 activities of petitioner are lacking not only commercial vision but
 apparently a deliberate attempt for diversion of funds. It remains
 a fact again that each development, document, financial status
 and even parameters are well within the knowledge of the
 petitioner. Not only petitioner is guilty in approaching this Court
 with unclean hands but also invoking a jurisdiction which may
 not be so invokable at least qua commercial transactions between
 proposed assignor or the proposed assignee. In any case at any
 stage if it is found that there is any viable offer available to
 respondent No.2 as per is policy, parameters including the
 quantum being so offered the respondent No.2 would always
 remain open for a discussion. The fight may not be lost that `119
 Lacs were already due at a point of time and it is not the case of
 petitioner that similar or equivalent amount had at any time being
 offered to the respondent No.2 by the petitioner. The settlements W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 25 of 45 can always take place subject to modalities, discussion including
 the commercial and legal aspects. 37. He further stated that there may not be any law available
 to the effect that two contracting parties who have not agitated
 any of the terms conditions or raised grievance may have to be
 compelled by third party though may be affecting its commercial
 status to continue to discuss a particular transaction in a particular
 manner even if the same was at primitive or preliminary stage or
 may be even well before. 38. According to Mr. Aggarwal that it is very much clear that
 the petitioner is not only facing acquisitions having qualified to
 be declared as willful defaulter and already facing proceedings
 under Section 7 tried to play situation commercially and now en-
 cashing the situation under Article 226 without any
 responsibility, liability on cost or court fees etc. A calculated
 commercial venture is being thrust upon the respondent No.2,
 may be even on respondent No.3 also under the heavily
 unquestionably empowered umbrella of Article 226. 39. According to him, the petitioner is only playing and
 abusing the provisions of law hence would not deserve any relief
 in any manner whatsoever. In any case whatever grievance it
 may have, ample opportunities have already been availed under Section 19 of RBD Act, 1993 in the OA and even under Section
 of IBC 2016. 40. According to him, the petition would therefore lack merit
 and preferably be dismissed along with any relief on account of
 the loss of interest, abuse of provisions by the petitioner. 41. Mr. Prateek Kushwaha, learned counsel appearing for the
 respondent No.3 has during the submissions stated that the
 respondent No.3 is prepared to take loan of the Dena Bank in
 favour of the petitioner provided they are assigned the loan
 pursuant to the tender issued by Dena Bank and bid submitted by
 the said respondent. 42. In his rejoinder arguments Mr. Tripathi would submit that
 the primarily objection on the maintainability of the writ petition
 is untenable on the following grounds that; (i) firstly, the dispute
 did not arise out of any contractual obligations which had to be
 fulfilled either by Dena Bank or RBI; (ii) the dispute was
 pursuant to Dena Bank‟s inaction on taking a decision in
 furtherance to the auction dated November 29, 2018 despite
 continuous requests by the successful bidder (Edelweiss) and the
 petitioner for the consummation of the sale; (iii) Dena Bank had
 on February 01, 2019 stated before the JLF that the sale was yet
 to be concluded as it requires RBI approval for the sale of this
 account; (iv) this pendency was due to Dena Bank‟s fraud
 reporting on September 25, 2018 which was later withdrawn on
 October 26, 2018 (after the clean chit given by the forensic
 auditor on October 15, 2018) and; (v) this was presumably done
 as per the RBI Master Directions on Fraud classification, which
 was rather an executive / legislative exercise undertaken by the
 state instrumentality herein Dena Bank. 43. He reiterates his plea on the stand of the respondent No.2
 Bank of Baroda that the transaction should have been through
 within 60 days by stating that this was neither supported by any W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 27 of 45 file noting nor any Minutes of Meeting, to show that the decision
 to cancel Edelweiss‟s bid was taken on this basis. Moreover, on
 the 64th day after the date of the e-auction, Dena Bank itself
 stated that it had put the petitioner‟s loan for sale and Edelweiss
 was the highest bidder, but the sale is yet to be concluded as it is
 awaiting RBI‟s approval. 44. Even on the interpretation given to clause 27 of the
 tendered documents by Mr. Aggarwal has been responded by Mr.
 Tripathi to state that Clause 27 of the tender document (tendered
 by Dena Bank on May 07, 2019) states that Dena Bank reserves
 the right to cancel the process at any stage before the final
 confirmation and in that event, in absolute discretion, to follow a
 different method for sale / transfer of the financial assets. While
 the clause gives discretion to the assignor / Dena Bank to reject a
 tender, the same does not give an arbitrary power to it to reject
 the bid offered by a party merely because it has that power. 45. Even on the aspect of fraud, it was the submission of Mr.
 Tripathi that Dena Bank had not appointed the forensic auditor in
 consultation with the members of the Joint Lenders‟ Forum. The
 stand some of the properties are sold to own relatives is
 untenable. According to him, this was orally explained to the
 auditor during their document inspection at the company‟s office
 from October 01, 2018 to October 04, 2018. Few parties shared
 the common last name (Dabas) with the director of the petitioner,
 however they are not related. 46. According to Mr. Tripathi, the stand that consideration is
 closer to circle rates whereas higher rate could be fetched is also W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 28 of 45 untenable. He stated that the average sale realization value from
 sale of asset was `1,11,049/- per sq. m. whereas the circle rates
 existing at the time were `13050, `18500 and `29400 (on
 account of revision of circle rates) and this was also explained to
 Dena Bank vide email dated February 07, 2019. The letter
 attached in the email showed that the properties sold were at a
 value much higher than the circle rates. The above statement
 made by Dena Bank in the FMR is factually incorrect and
 deviates from the one made by forensic auditor in initial forensic
 report. The initial report of forensic auditor made the following
 observations: 12 and FY 2012-13, sale of property of `13.33 Crore is shown. In this regard, Mr. Tripathi stated that it was orally
 explained to the forensic auditor during their site visit from
 October 01, 2018 to October 04, 2018 that the fixed asset
 schedule in the balance sheet had `13.33 Crore as book value of
 the asset. The consideration paid above the book value of `13.33
 Crore (17.60 Crore - 13.33 Crore = 4.27 Crore) was accounted as
 income in the statement of profit and loss as per GAAP standard
 accounting procedure rather than a reduction in the fixed asset on
 the balance sheet. B) The sale consideration towards sale of properties on
 which advance was received is also not accounted as income in
 the books of accounts. In this regard, Mr. Tripathi stated that it was also W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 29 of 45 explained during the auditors site visit from October 01, 2018 to
 October 04, 2018 that as per standard GAAP accounting
 procedure, since the above transactions were not consummated,
 and only initial advance was received, the payments were
 recorded on the balance sheet as other current liabilities and not
 recorded as part of income in the statement of profit and loss. 47. Even on the RBI letter dated March 25, 2019 Mr. Tripathi
 would submit that RBI failed to; (i) hear the petitioner or examine
 its replies before the forensic auditor; (ii) examine the closure
 report dated October 15, 2018 filed by the forensic auditor and; (iii) examine whether the forensic auditor had been appointed in
 consultation with the consortium of bank as per Clauses 8.9.4,
 8.9.5 RBI master directions. 48. Further, he has submitted that the RBI rather proceeds on
 the premise that Master Directions relating to closure of fraud
 would apply to the present case. According to him, this would
 not apply since the forensic auditor declared that there were no
 traces of fraud in the petitioner‟s account. He also submit a bare
 perusal of the clause 5 would reveal that the closure is triggered
 by any of the events mentioned in clause 5.2 which are- factors and plugged the lacunae, which has been certified by the
 appropriate authority. 49. In substance it was his submission that the very
 invocation of the fraud classification was negated by the forensic
 auditor‟s report who gave a clean chit, so there would not arise an
 occasion for undertaking any remedial acts, thus triggering the
 closure under Clause 5. He further laid stress on the fact that the
 petitioner had majority lender‟s approval upto 63.7%. Therefore,
 the delay being caused on account of Dena Bank‟s approaching
 the RBI is completely stultifying and disincentivizing the
 restructuring scheme. He also stated that in terms of the share of
 Dena Bank as per the restructuring schedule, the petitioner has to
 pay `2,83,45,928/- whereas as on January 31, 2019, the petitioner
 has paid an amount of `3,07,43,597/- to the Dena Bank. The
 petitioner has paid an excess amount of `23,97,649/- till the time
 it was informed about the assignment transaction. 50. Further, he submitted that it is not the case of the Dena
 Bank that it has to seek RBI‟s approval for continuing with the
 assignment rather the only approval it sought was to withdraw the
 fraud report. In fact, even RBI maintains its stand that it does not
 impose a bar on extension of credit or banking facilities merely
 on the reporting of fraud. Though Dena Bank points out that
 ultimately the rights of the petitioner would be affected by the
 assignment in question, it did not answer the query put to it
 regarding its announcement of the assignment to Edelweiss
 before the JLF on the 64th day of the tender and whether the
 decision to cancel the bid was taken up after considering the
 supposed 60 day time period in mind. He also stated that it is
 noteworthy, that the merger was announced sometime in W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 31 of 45 September, 2018 and the e-auction of the petitioner‟s loan
 account was done on November 29, 2018. The counsel for Dena
 Bank on May 07, 2019 suggested that the reason for not going
 ahead with the bid could be for additional funds which they could
 have yielded on account of sale of petitioner‟s loan account.
 Surely, Dena Bank would have conducted a valuation of the
 petitioner prior to putting up the account for auction. Vijaya
 Bank, which has also merged with Bank of Baroda, had assigned
 its debt, with regard to the account of the petitioner, to Phoenix
 ARC. Bank of Baroda has itself sold various accounts to ARC‟s
 worth `4237 Crores on November 22, 2018 and `5929 Crores on
 February 27, 2019. 51. In the end he says that this Court can entertain the writ
 petition involving the disputed questions of fact as there is no
 absolute bar for entertaining a writ petition even if the same
 arises to enforce a contractual application. He relied upon these
 two judgments in the case of ABL International Ltd. v. Export
 Credit Guarantee Corpn. Of India Ltd. ( 2004) 3 SCC 553 and
 State of Kerala & Ors. v. M.K. Jose , (2015) 9 SCC 433. He also
 relied upon the following judgments in support of his
 contentions: 52. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, the first
 and foremost question that needs to be decided is whether the
 petitioner has any locus standi to file the present petition. This is
 in the context of the submission made by Mr. Arun Aggarwal that
 the bid, to take over the loan of the Dena Bank in favour of the
 petitioner, was submitted by the respondent No.3 Edelweiss
 Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and it is not the claim of
 Edelweiss that the said bid be decided. This submission of Mr.
 Aggarwal is appealing for the reason that the present writ petition
 is primarily maintained in terms of prayer (b) [prayer (c) being
 consequential thereof] wherein a direction has been sought
 against the respondent No.2 to go ahead with the assignment of
 the loan of the petitioner to respondent No.3 Edelweiss without
 waiting for the formal approval of the respondent No.1. 53. Admittedly, no petition has been filed by the respondent
 No.3 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited; who
 had submitted the bid which was held to be highest. If the stand
 of the petition is that the said bid of the respondent No.3 has not
 been decided, then it shall be grievance of the respondent No.3 to
 raise an issue. Merely because the bid is for taking over of the
 loan given by the Dena Bank to the petitioner even though would W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 33 of 45 suggest some interest of the petitioner but that would not show
 locus of the petitioner to maintain the writ petition for a prayer as
 noted above, as it is settled law to maintain a writ under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India it should be shown by the
 petitioner that its right has been infringed by the inaction on the
 part of the respondent No.2 to decide the bid submitted by the
 respondent No.3 Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company
 Limited, which according to Mr. Aggarwal it has failed. Further
 it is not the case of the petitioner that the present petition has
 been filed in public interest. Surely such cases are exception to
 the locus standi rule as held by the Supreme Court in various
 judgments including Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India
 & Ors. , AIR 1984 (SC) 802. Further, the submission of Mr.
 Tripathi that the Edelweiss and the petitioner have been writing
 to the Dena Bank for consummation of sale is concerned; the
 same can be a ground for Edelweiss but not the petitioner, who is
 not the bidder to approach the Court with relief as prayed for. So,
 the relief to the respondent No.3 cannot be given at the asking of
 the petitioner. In other words, the cause of action is the
 submission of bid which has not been decided. It is surely a
 cause for the respondent No.3 to approach the Court against Dena
 Bank and not the petitioner. So, it follows the judicial review of
 the inaction on the part of the Dena Bank to decide the bid on any
 ground at the behest of any party other than Edelweiss is
 impermissible. Hence, this plea of Mr. Aggarwal needs to be
 accepted and it must be held that the petitioner has no locus
 standi to seek prayer(s) as stated above in this writ petition. In W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 34 of 45 support of my aforesaid conclusion, I may refer to the following
 judgments of the Supreme Court on the issue of maintainability
 of the writ petition by a person who has no locus standi to file a
 petition: The right that can be enforced under Art. 226 also
 shall ordinarily be the personal or individual right of
 the petitioner himself, though in the case of some of
 the writs like habeas corpus or quo warranto this rule
 may have to be relaxed or modified..." (emphasis
 supplied)

 In Mani Subrat Jain v. State of Haryana , AIR 1977 SC 276,
 in para 9 the Supreme Court has held as under: (emphasis supplied)

 In Ghulam Qadir v. Special Tribunal , (2002) 1 SCC 33, in
 para 38 the Supreme Court has held as under: and aggrieved person has been defined to mean: The person aggrieved, therefore, must be one who has suffered a
 legal injury. 55. Further the Supreme Court in Jasbhai Motibhai Desai v.
 Roshan Kumar Haji Bashir Ahmed , AIR 1976 SC 578, while
 dealing with the expression "aggrieved person", has in paragraphs
 12, 25, 29 and 38 observed as under: 56. In a recent pronouncement the Supreme Court in Ayaaubkhan Noorkhan Pathan v. State of Maharashtra , (2013)
 4 SCC 465, while dealing with the expression "person aggrieved" (emphasis supplied) 57. The Supreme Court in M S Jayaraj v. Commissioner of
 Excise, Kerala , (2000) 7 SCC 552, examined the issue of "locus
 standi" and held that the person should be asked to disclose the
 legal injury suffered by him and if he cannot, then, obviously, the
 person has no locus standi to file a writ petition under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India. 58. Insofar as the judgments relied upon by Mr. Tripathi are
 concerned, they are not relevant to the point on which, I have
 concluded that the petition at the behest of the petitioner is not
 maintainable and hence need to be rejected. 59. Having said that one submission of Mr. Aggarwal cannot
 be over looked which is when he stated "in any case at any stage
 if it is found that there is any viable offer available to respondent
 No.2 as per its policy, parameters including the quantum being
 so offered the respondent No.2 would always remain open for a
 discussion". If that be so, the writ petition can be disposed of
 without adverting to the merits of the controversy that the
 petitioner shall be at liberty to make a representation to the
 Competent Authority of the respondent No.2 (in terms of the
 amended memo of parties) for its consideration within two
 weeks. If such a representation is made, the Competent
 Authority of the respondent No.2 shall consider the same within
 four weeks thereafter and pass appropriate orders. 60. Since the matter is listed before the NCLT on July 04, W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 44 of 45 2019, liberty shall be with the parties to seek deferment of the
 date beyond the period of six weeks to enable the Competent
 Authority of the respondent No.2 consider the representation and
 pass final order. The writ petition is disposed of. Dismissed as infructuous. V. KAMESWAR RAO, J

 JULY 01, 2019/aky W.P.(C) No. 3356/2019 Page 45 of 45