1. The petitioner had, by a Charter Party dated 29.4.1995, on a Gencon

 form, chartered the vessel "AMAZON REEFER" to the respondent

 No.1 herein for a voyage from Kandla to Novorossiysk. The said

 charter party contained the terms and conditions on which the vessel

 was chartered. It also contained an arbitration agreement in Clause

 29 thereof which, inter alia, provided that in the event of disputes

 between the parties, the same could be settled through arbitration in Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 1 of 32 London according to English Law. Disputes and differences arose

 between the parties and, accordingly, the matter was referred to

 arbitration in London. The said Arbitral Tribunal, which comprised of

 three arbitrators, has given award dated 19.11.1998. 2. The petitioner herein had initially filed a suit for enforcement of this

 award. However, realizing that no such suit is required to be filed

 inasmuch as such an award, even when it is a foreign award, is

 enforceable and executable under the Arbitration and Conciliation

 Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the '1996 Act'), the petitioner

 filed the present execution petition and withdrew the suit, being Suit

 No. 740A/1999. The petitioner stated that the award in question is

 passed by the Arbitral Tribunal in England, which is a country

 notified under the New York Convention. The enforcement of the

 award is, accordingly, sought under Sections 5 , 6 and 8 of the

 Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961. However,

 this Act stood repealed by the 1996 Act inasmuch as Part II, Chapter I

 of the same (Section 44 to 52) lays down the provisions for

 enforcement of foreign arbitral award given in the country which is

 signatory to the 1958 Convention on the Recognition and

 Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (hereinafter referred to as

 the „New York Convention‟). 3. According to the petitioners, when the disputes arose and were

 referred to the arbitration in London, both the parties sought

 substantive relief and were represented by counsel before the Arbitral Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 2 of 32 Tribunal. The Tribunal, after an oral hearing in London from

 21.9.1998 to 25.9.1998, passed the reasoned award in favour of the

 petitioner ordering and directing the respondent to pay to the

 petitioner a sum of US$ 819,983.16 together with interest @ 7% p.a.

 from 1.10.1995 till the date of filing of the award. Costs have also

 been awarded in favour of the petitioner amounting to Sterling £

 26,762.17 being the cost of the award and Sterling Pounds £

 129,929.79 being the petitioner's cost. No appeal was filed by the

 respondent against this award and, therefore, the award has become

 final and binding. 4. In addition to impleading respondent No.1, namely, M/s. Tinna Oils

 & Chemicals Ltd., the petitioner has also arraigned M/s. Tinna Finex

 Ltd. as the respondent No.2. Though the vessel was chartered by the

 petitioner for the respondent No.1, namely, M/s. Tinna Oils &

 Chemicals Ltd., in a Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by this Court,

 the said company was taken over by M/s. Tinna Finex Ltd. Because

 of this reason, the respondent No.2 was also impleaded before the

 Arbitral Tribunal and is arraigned in the execution petition as well. 5. In this execution petition, notice was issued on 19.7.2000, which was

 accepted by counsel for both the respondents, who were appearing

 at that time in Suit No. 740-A/1998. 6. The petitioner has also filed OMP No. 173/1998, which is an

 application under Section 9 of the 1996 Act, with the prayer that the Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 3 of 32 respondents be directed to furnish security to the tune of US$

 1,308,340.54 besides costs and they be also directed to disclose, on

 oath, the details of movable and immovable assets of the respondent

 No.1, which have been transferred to the respondent No.2. It is also

 prayed that they be restrained from alienating and/or encumbering

 their movable and/or immovable assets. In this OMP, vide order

 dated 13.8.1998, a Local Commissioner was appointed to visit the

 factory premises of the respondents and prepare an inventory of all

 the movable assets and try to ascertain other immovable assets which

 are in the names of the respondents. Interim injunction in terms of

 prayer (c) of the petition was also granted which inter alia reads as

 under: 7. The respondents have filed their objections to this execution petition. In the objections filed on behalf of the respondent No.1, it is stated

 that the vessel in question was chartered for carrying a cargo of

 potatoes. However, on account of improper storage by the

 petitioner, the said goods got spoiled and ultimately had to be

 dumped in the sea. On account of the loss suffered by the

 respondent No.1, the financial worth of the said respondent suffered

 heavily and it became a sick company. The situation was such that its

 net worth was in the negative and the funds available with it were

 not even sufficient for payment of the dues of the banks and financial Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 4 of 32 institutions. It could not even pay the costs for the counter claim for

 which reason it was not proceeded with by the arbitrators. It is stated

 that the respondent No.1 had to undertake the Scheme to

 accommodate a foreign investor, otherwise the company was

 financially unviable and would have gone bankrupt. It is also stated

 that various options were considered for revival of the respondent

 No.1. The detailed restructuring report was prepared. It dealt with

 the need for restructuring, the strategy for revival and various

 alternatives. It recommended the acceptance of an offer from

 M/s.Archer Daniels Midland Singapore Pte. Ltd., which is a Fortune

 500 company and a world leader in oilseeds processing. The entire

 exercise has taken place during the years 1995-96, much prior to the

 commencement of the arbitration proceedings. The Scheme of

 Arrangement, as formulated, required that only the manufacturing

 assets will remain in the respondent No.1 so that the new company

 could start with a clean state. M/s. Archer Daniels Midland Singapore

 Pte. Ltd. will bring in funds and all other assets and financial liabilities

 will be transferred to another company M/s. Tinna Finex. This was

 the only way for revival of the respondent No.1. 8. It is further stated that prior to the Scheme of Arrangement, the

 respondent No.1 had three divisions, Head Office/Merchant Export

 Division, Oil Processing Division at Latur and Cargo Handling

 Division at Vizag. Export sales are a part of merchant export division

 as proved from the balance sheet. All legal and other proceedings of Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 5 of 32 the 'Spin Off Division' or any matter arising before the date of

 arrangement and relating to any property, right, power, liability,

 obligation or duty of the respondent No.1 were to be continued and

 enforced by or against the respondent No.2 only. A petition under Section 391 of the Companies Act was also filed in the Delhi High

 Court being C.P. No. 303/1997 for seeking the mandatory approval

 of this Court to the Scheme of Arrangement. With effect from the

 date of arrangement, i.e. 1.4.1997, all assets and liabilities of 'Spin Off

 Division' were to vest in the respondent No.2, without any further

 act, deed or thing, by operation of law. The Scheme was approved

 by this Court on 7.11.1997. Before approving the Scheme, the Court

 had ordered for convening the meeting of the creditors, which

 meeting was held on 2.8.1997 and the Scheme of Arrangement was

 approved by the creditors. The petitioner never participated in the

 meeting and never objected to the Scheme of Arrangement. This

 Scheme was also duly registered with the Registrar of Companies on

 15.1.1998. The arbitration took place only thereafter, i.e., in

 September 1998. 9. It is, thus, the case of the respondent No.1 that the liability of the

 petitioner was taken over by the respondent No.2 and, therefore, it

 is only the respondent No.2 which is liable to make payments, if any.

 This stand is also sought to be buttressed by pleading that after the

 sanction of the Scheme by this Court, the claim of the petitioner

 regarding present arbitration were reflected in the accounts of the Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 6 of 32 respondent No.2 from the financial year 1997-98 onwards. The

 respondent No.2 even paid off other secured creditors, bankers and

 financial institutions and the payments made in this regard was more

 than Rs. 20 crores, which proves the genuineness of the Scheme.

 M/s.Archer Daniels Midland Singapore Pte. Ltd. acquired 60%

 shareholding of the respondent No.1 (now increased to 75%) by

 infusion of funds, and used to pay off debts. Not only this, the

 respondent No.2 even took over the litigation and contested the

 matter before the Arbitral Tribunal. It is stated that when the hearing

 took place before the Arbitral Tribunal from 21st to 25th September

 1998, it was agreed to pass the award in the name of the respondent

 No.2. However, no formal order was passed. The cost of arbitration

 was also to be borne by the respondent No.2. This plea is sought to

 be supported from the fact that a letter was issued from the solicitors

 on 30.9.1998 for recording the agreement that award was passed in

 the name of the respondent No.2. The petitioner's solicitors, by their

 letter dated 2.10.1998, accepted the above. Their only plea was that

 the order of Scheme of Arrangement was not registered and,

 therefore, proof of registration be given. But they never denied that

 the respondent No.2 only was liable. Since they demanded the proof

 of registration, it was also furnished to them vide letter dated

 12.10.1998. It is also pointed out that in the final award, which was

 passed on 19.11.1998, the name of the respondent appears as 'Tinnal

 Oils & Chemicals Ltd. in a Scheme of Arrangement by order of the

 High Court of Delhi with Tinna Finex Ltd', which would show that Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 7 of 32 even the Arbitral Tribunal had accepted the position regarding the

 Scheme of Arrangement as per which only the respondent No.2 is

 liable for all consequences arising out of the litigation. Not only this,

 even the proceedings for taxation for costs commenced by the

 petitioner thereafter were only against the respondent No.2. It is

 further stated that filing of the execution petition against the

 respondent No.2 would also indicate that the petitioner admits the

 legal consequences arising out of the Scheme of Arrangement, which

 is a statutory transfer of assets and liabilities and is binding on all

 concerned. The petitioner has not challenged the Scheme of

 Arrangement even after coming to know of the same and, therefore,

 in these proceedings it is estopped from challenging the Scheme or

 denying the legal consequences. 10. The maintainability of the execution petition is also challenged on

 the ground that Ms. Priya D. Nair, who has filed this petition on

 behalf of the petitioner as its constituted attorney, is not authorised

 to file such a petition inasmuch there is no resolution of the

 petitioner giving her such authorisation. The maintainability is also questioned on the ground that it is

 contrary to public policy and as it will have the effect of nullifying

 the Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by this Court. 11. The respondent No.2 has also challenged the maintainability of the

 execution petition. In addition to questioning the competence of Ms.

 Priya D. Nair to file the petition, the respondent No.2 has submitted Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 8 of 32 that it has been impleaded only because of the Scheme of

 Arrangement approved by this Court vide order dated 7.11.1997

 under which the Spin Off Division of the respondents No.1 stands

 transferred to the respondent No.2. Therefore, liability of the

 respondent No. 2 is limited to what is provided in the Scheme of

 Arrangement. The respondent No.2 has already acted upon the

 Scheme of Arrangement and discharged its obligations. It has paid off

 the secured creditors, bankers and financial institutions an amount of

 over Rs. 20 crores from the funds given to it under the Scheme of

 Arrangement. It is additionally contended that the award dated

 19.11.1998 is not a 'Foreign Award'. The petitioner company is

 registered in Panama and is carrying on its business from there.

 Panama is not a reciprocating territory either under the New York

 Convention or under the Geneva Convention. Panama has also not

 been recognized as a reciprocating territory by the Government of

 India, therefore, provisions of Part II, Chapter I of the 1996 Act are

 not applicable. The validity of the award is also challenged on the

 ground that the very constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal was

 contrary to the Charter Party Agreement between the petitioner and

 the respondent No.1 as per which the Arbitral Tribunal was to consist

 of two arbitrators, one each to be nominated by each party. The said

 arbitrators were to appoint an Umpire. No power is vested on the

 two arbitrators to appoint a third arbitrator. Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 9 of 32 12. On merits, the validity of the award is challenged on the ground that

 the counter claims preferred by the respondent No.1, in whose shoes

 the respondent No.2 has stepped in, have not even been considered

 by the Arbitral Tribunal, whereas the entire claim filed by the

 petitioner has been considered in detail. It is also submitted that the

 respondent No.2 has been denied the opportunity to prosecute its

 claim, only because it could not give security as demanded. It is

 submitted that a party cannot be deprived of its legal rights due to

 financial inability of the party to give security and, therefore, the

 same amounts to violation of principles of natural justice thereby

 rendering the award unenforceable. It is also stated that the award

 has been based on certain documents in respect of which no sufficient

 notice was given to the respondents and no opportunity was

 provided to them to lead evidence to disprove the said documents.

 In this respect it is submitted that on 22.7.1998, the Arbitral Tribunal

 passed the order stipulating the schedule which was to be followed

 by the parties, as under :- It is further submitted that the hearing of the matter by the

 Arbitral Tribunal commenced on 21.9.1998. The petitioner on

 22.9.1998, at the close of the hearing for the day, produced a report

 by the Cambridge Research Technology Institute, which had not been

 filed by the petitioner at the time of the filing of the documents and

 submissions of the report of the experts, and sought to rely on the

 same. The respondent No.2 was directed to cross-examine a person

 on the said report even though he was not the author of the same.

 The request of the respondent No.2 to produce the author of the

 report for cross-examination on the basis of the same was also not

 accepted by the Arbitral Tribunal. The said report was a highly

 technical report and the same required a detailed study before any

 effective cross-examination could be conducted on the same and

 before evidence and arguments could be led to disprove the said

 report. Further, the aforesaid report could be proved by its author

 alone. However, the author of the said report was not produced in

 evidence by the petitioner. Thus, the said report was not proved in

 accordance with law. Despite that, the Arbitral Tribunal has relied

 upon the said report and it is only on the basis of the same that the

 finding against the respondent No.2 has been returned by the

 Arbitral Tribunal. It is submitted that the petitioner had produced

 evidence by way of affidavits of the Master and Chief Officer of the

 ship. Their testimony has been heavily relied upon by the Arbitral

 Tribunal. However, the said persons were not produced for cross-

 examination by the petitioner. It is a settled principle of law and Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 11 of 32 public policy in India that any testimony which has not been tested

 on the touchstone of a cross-examination cannot be relied upon

 under any circumstances. 13. In addition, it is also submitted that it was the petitioner's negligence

 in not storing the cargo properly, as the petitioner was unable to

 maintain the stipulated temperature of 5-7oC in the holds during the

 currency of the voyage, which resulted in sprouting in the potatoes

 and the entire cargo had to be discarded due to the negligence of the

 petitioner because of which the respondent No.2 suffered heavy

 losses. The Arbitral Tribunal has not even considered these

 contentions raised by the respondents before it. It is also submitted

 that even if the evidence were to be considered entirely in favour of

 the petitioner, at best a finding to the effect that the potatoes of

 poor quality can be returned against the respondent No.2, though

 the same is denied. There is no evidence whatsoever to prove that

 the goods, as loaded in the ship, were of a quality which was

 unacceptable to the importer. 14. The award is also challenged on the ground that though proof of the

 actual damage suffered by the petitioner is given, still the entire claim

 of the petitioner has been accepted, which is against the law of India

 as well as England inasmuch as the parties can be compensated for

 the actual damage and no notional damages can be granted. Even

 otherwise, nothing was suggested before the Arbitral Tribunal by the Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 12 of 32 petitioner to mitigate the alleged loss and, therefore, the quantum of

 damages, as granted, is clearly unreasonable. 15. The petitioner has filed response to the aforesaid objections of the

 respondent No.1 & 2, note whereof shall be taken while considering

 these objections. 16. Before coming to other objections, the three fundamental issues

 raised by the respondents, which go to the root of the matter and

 challenge the maintainability of the petition itself, need to be

 addressed. These are :- The answer to these questions would determine as to which

 respondent is liable, if at all, and to what extent. 17. RE. - Regarding competency of Ms. Priya D. Nair to file the petition

 This issue proceeds on the premise that there is no resolution of

 the petitioner company authorizing Ms. Priya D. Nair to file the

 petition on its behalf, which has been produced and submitted to the Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 13 of 32 Court and further that Ms. Juliet Sarah Blanch has no authority to

 swear the affidavit. I may note that Ms. Blanch, who had filed the affidavit, is a

 Solicitor and Partner of Norton Rose, a firm from which solicitor was

 engaged by the petitioner. I may also note that affidavit dated

 27.4.2006 of Mr. Christopher Hobbs is also filed. He is a solicitor of

 Supreme Court of England and Wales. In the affidavit he has stated

 that he has been a partner of Norton Rose within the Dispute

 Resolution Department for a period of 11 years and was swearing the

 said affidavit in connection with a claim by the petitioner herein. In

 that affidavit, it is inter alia stated that after the award was published

 and in the absence of payment of the award by the respondents, the

 petitioner instructed his firm Norton Rose to enforce the award

 against the respondents. He further stated that as per well

 recognized and established practice in England, the solicitors who are

 instructed by clients to enforce an arbitration award to take all such

 procedural steps as are necessary in order to implement such

 instructions. It is further mentioned in para 5 of the said affidavit as

 under :- From the aforesaid, it can be stated that Ms. Blanch has the

 necessary instructions and also requisite knowledge of the facts of the

 case on the basis of which she could swear the affidavit. 18. Insofar as power in favour of Ms. Priya D. Nair is concerned, the

 petitioner has also placed on record original power of attorney dated

 5.4.2006 in her favour, duly certified by the officials in the Ministry

 of Affairs in the Republic of Panama. By this power of attorney, act

 of filing the present petition is duly ratified and confirmed. This act

 indicates the objection of the respondents. At this stage, I may quote

 from the judgment of this Court in Delhi Lotteries v. Rajesh Aggarwal

 & Ors. , 69 (1997) DLT 543, wherein such a contention was brushed

 aside by observing as under :- 12. To the same effects are the observations of a Division
 Bench of the Rajasthan High Court as reported in AIR 1955
 Rajasthan 57, Machosingh v. Union of India , and (1948) 2
 All.E.R. 482, Alexander Mountain & Co. v. Rumere Ltd. 13. It is now well settled principle of law that a suit is not to
 be dismissed for technical reasons such as the plaint was not
 signed and verified by a competent person because such type
 of objections do not go to the root of the matter if a party has
 otherwise substantiated his claim. It was opined by their
 Lordships of the Supreme Court in AIR 1997 Supreme Court 3, United Bank of India v. Naresh Kumar and Others . "Where the
 Courts came to a conclusion that money had been taken by
 certain parties from Bank and certain persons had stood as
 guarantors and that the claim of the Bank was justified, it will
 be a travesty of justice if the Bank is to be non suited for a
 technical reason which does not go to the root of the matter
 and the only defect which was alleged on behalf of the parties
 was on which was curable." 19. RE. - Foreign Award

 The contention of the respondent No.2 that the award dated

 19.11.1998 is not a foreign award predicates on the plea that the

 petitioner company is registered in Panama and is carrying on its

 business from there and Panama is not a reciprocating territory either

 under the New York Convention or under the Geneva Convention.

 It is also submitted that Panama has not been recognized as a

 reciprocating territory by the Government of India and, therefore,

 provisions of Part II, Chapter I of the 1996 Act are not applicable. Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 16 of 32 This submission of the objector is factually incorrect inasmuch

 as requisite documents were produced by the petitioner, which show

 that Panama is recognized as a reciprocating territory. That apart,

 Section 44(b) of the 1996 Act states that the country where the

 award has been issued must be a country notified by the Indian

 Government to be a country to which the New York Convention

 applies. Thus, it is to be borne in mind that award in question is

 rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in England, which is admittedly a

 country notified under the New York Convention. 20. Section 44 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 defines

 „Foreign Award‟ as under :- 21. The ingredients which are to be satisfied, as per the said section, to

 term an award as a „foreign award‟ are the following :- The aforesaid ingredients stand satisfied in this case and,

 therefore, the award in question is to be treated as „foreign award‟.

 This issue, therefore, stands answered in favour of the petitioner. 22. RE. - Scheme of Arrangement

 The factual position, on this issue, which is not in dispute is that

 there is a Scheme of Arrangement arrived at between the respondent

 No.1 and respondent No.2 under the Companies Act, 1956 , which

 has been approved by the court as well in a petition filed under Section 391 of the Companies Act. Date of arrangement fixed as per

 the said Scheme is 1.4.1997. From this date, all assets and liabilities of

 „Spin Off Division‟ vested in the respondent No.2 without any

 further act, deed or thing or by operation of law. 23. Before I come to the legal effect of the Scheme, I may deal with the

 objection of learned counsel for the petitioner to the Scheme. It was

 argued that notice of the Scheme was never given to the petitioner

 though the petitioner was a creditor and, therefore, the petitioner

 could not participate in the meeting and object to the Scheme of

 Arrangement. The plea, thus, was that such a Scheme was not

 binding upon the petitioner. I am not inclined to accept this plea. It Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 18 of 32 is not in dispute that the court had ordered convening of the meeting

 of creditors before approving the Scheme. Meeting was held on

 2.8.1997 and the Scheme of Arrangement was approved by the

 creditors. Thereafter, the court put its seal of approval to the said

 Scheme on 7.11.1997. If the petitioner did not receive any notice of

 the said Scheme, it was for the petitioner to move appropriate

 application before the said Company Judge, which it could do so

 even after the approval of the Scheme. No such step was taken even

 when the petitioner came to know about the said Scheme during the

 pendency of the arbitration proceedings. Having failed to take any

 such step, it does not now lie in the mouth of the petitioner to

 contend that the Scheme is not binding upon it for want of notice. I

 may record that whether the petitioner received notice of the

 meeting or not is a disputed question of fact which the petitioner was

 to establish and it could be done by moving appropriate application

 before the Company Judge. On this basis, even the plea of learned

 counsel for the petitioner that fraud was played upon the petitioner

 by not serving notice would not be available to it. 24. Insofar as effect of the Scheme is concerned, the law on the point is

 abundantly clear when such a scheme is approved by the court under Section 391 of the Companies Act binding on all the parties, including

 all the creditors. Therefore, the petitioner shall also be bound by the

 same. The alleged liability qua the petitioner, as per the award,

 relates to „Spin Off Division‟. All the assets and liabilities of this Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 19 of 32 Division have been taken over by the respondent No.2 by operation

 of law and no further act, deed or things were required to be done

 for this purpose. Thus, from the appointed date, i.e. 1.4.1997, it is

 the respondent No.2 which assumed all the liabilities, including the

 liability of the petitioner, if any. Therefore, the Scheme of

 Arrangement would be binding on the petitioner as well as the

 respondent No.2. 25. The effect of decision on this issue would be to hold that the

 respondent No.1 was no more liable towards the petitioner after

 1.4.1997. This fact was disclosed by the respondent No.1 before the

 Arbitral Tribunal and taken note of by the Arbitral Tribunal as well,

 which is reflected from the Cause Title of the Award itself. As a

 consequence, objections of the respondent No.1 succeed and it is

 held that the respondent No.1 is not liable for any payment under

 the said award. 26. In view of the aforesaid decision on the three fundamental issues, the

 objections of the respondent No.2 to the said award remain to be

 discussed. 27. RE. - Objections of the Respondent No.2

 The objections of the respondent No.2, which remain to be

 dealt with, can be paraphrased as under :- This objection hardly has any merit. The two arbitrators

 had to appoint a third person. Whether he is treated as an

 Umpire or a third arbitrator would not be of much

 consequence. The petitioner also explained that it was agreed

 by a letter dated 12.12.1995 from the attorneys of the

 respondent No.1 that both parties, namely, the petitioner and

 the first respondent would appoint their own arbitrator, with

 the arbitrators so appointed being at liberty to choose an

 umpire. It was in view of this letter of the respondent No.1

 itself that each party nominated its arbitrator and the two

 arbitrators chose Mr. Michael Baskerville to act as umpire. This

 course was, thus, adopted by the parties willingly. Moreover,

 no objection was taken by the respondent before the Arbitral

 Tribunal questioning its constitution. Therefore, it is too late in

 the day to take such an objection. (b) Other objection is that the award is contrary to public policy of

 India. It is premised on the ground that the counter claim filed

 by the respondent No.2 had not been considered by the

 arbitrators and he was denied an opportunity to prosecute its Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 21 of 32 claims. The basis of this plea is that the respondent No.2 was

 asked to give security, which it could not furnish due to

 financial inability, and that was the reason that it was deprived

 of its legal right, which amounts to violation of principles of

 natural justice. The question would be as to whether demand by the

 Arbitral Tribunal to furnish such a security is illegal? It cannot

 be disputed by the respondents that they agreed for settlement

 of disputes by a specific forum which was to adjudicate the

 disputes as per its rules. When the rules provide for furnishing

 of security, the respondents knew the rigors of such a

 mechanism. Therefore, they cannot now turn around and say

 that they could disobey such directions to furnish security as

 ordered by the Arbitral Tribunal and complain that even if

 there was default on their part in refusing to furnish the

 security, their claims/counter claims should have been

 considered. That apart, in the present case, it does not even lie

 in the mouth of the respondents to take such an objection

 inasmuch as the direction to furnish security was at their

 instance. In this behalf, I may note that on 26.4.1996 the

 respondent No.1, through its counsel, addressed a fax dated

 26.4.1996 to the Arbitral Tribunal seeking directions from the

 tribunal to direct the petitioner to furnish security for cause in

 the sum of US$150,000 for prosecuting its claim in the

 arbitration. On this the Arbitral Tribunal passed orders dated Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 22 of 32 1.5.1996 whereby the petitioner as well as the first respondent

 were directed to furnish security in the sum of US$ 150,000 to

 secure the cost of the claims and counter claims brought by the

 petitioner and the respondent No.1, respectively. Thus, it is on

 the insistence and at the instance of the respondents that such

 an order was passed. Thereafter, if the respondents failed

 and/or neglected to comply with the said order dated 1.5.1996

 and refuse to furnish the security, the Arbitral Tribunal was

 justified in staying the counter claims of the respondents.

 Learned counsel for the petitioner explained that directions to

 give such security and disregard the claim for failure to furnish

 the security is in consonance with the English law. I, therefore, do not find any merit in this objection either. (c) The next objection is that the award is based on certain

 documents in respect of which sufficient notice was not given

 to the respondents and no opportunity was given to them to

 lead evidence to disprove the said documents. The precise

 grievance in this behalf was that as per the schedule fixed by

 the Arbitral Tribunal vide its orders dated 22.7.1998, the actual

 dates of hearing were fixed from 21.9.1998 to 25.9.1998.

 Before the hearings on the aforesaid dates, as per the schedule,

 the statement of witnesses were to be exchanged by 14.8.1998

 and expert reports were also to be exchanged by 24.8.1998.

 However, the petitioner did not adhere to this schedule and Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 23 of 32 gave any documents in advance, but produced the same only

 at the time of hearing. It is further stated that on 22.9.1998,

 report by Cambridge Research Technology Institute (CRTI) was

 produced which was not filed earlier. The respondent had

 objected to production of this report at a belated stage, but this

 objection was ignored by the Arbitral Tribunal and the report

 was taken on record. In these circumstances, the respondent

 made request for postponing of the hearing to enable it to

 study the said report, which request was also rejected. So

 much so, the respondent was directed to cross-examine a

 person on the said report even though he was not the author

 of the same. Not only this, request of the respondent to

 produce the author of the report for cross-examination was

 also rejected. It is argued that the said report was highly

 technical in nature and required detailed study, but no time

 was given to the respondents to study the same for effective

 cross-examination of the witness. It was also argued that in

 any case the report was not proved in accordance with the law

 as author of the report was not produced. Despite this, the

 Arbitral Tribunal relied upon this report, which is the sole basis

 of its findings against the respondents. It is further contended that the petitioner had produced

 the evidence by way of affidavits of the Master and Chief

 Officer of the ship and though their testimony has been heavily

 relied upon by the Arbitral Tribunal, the said persons were not Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 24 of 32 produced for cross-examination by the petitioner. According

 to the objector, this is against the public policy of India that

 any testimony which has not been tested on the touchstone of

 the cross-examination is relied upon. I may note that in reply to these objections the petitioner

 has denied that it failed to adhere to the schedule fixed by the

 Arbitral Tribunal vide its order dated 22.7.1998. The

 allegation that CRTI report was filed only on 22.9.1998 is also

 denied. Other allegations made by the respondent No.2

 regarding refusal of request to adjourn the proceedings or

 giving it chance to produce evidence in rebuttal to the CRTI

 report were rejected by the Tribunal. In view of this denial,

 onus was upon the respondent No.2 to show that the report

 was filed on 22.9.1998. I also find that even the respondent

 No.2 had filed report of the technical expert. Therefore, it is

 not a case where the respondent No.2 was not given a chance. The proceedings recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal are

 not produced before me. In these circumstances, the

 respondent No.2 has failed to show that any request was made

 for adjournment of the proceedings on the purported ground

 that the report was filed only on 22.9.1998 and the request

 was rejected. Even if it is presumed that nothing in this behalf

 was recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal in the day-to-day

 proceedings, minimum which was expected from the

 respondent No.2 was to put it on record that such a request Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 25 of 32 was made and the Tribunal did not accede to that request.

 One cannot be oblivious of the nature of such international

 arbitration proceedings. The schedule fixed by the arbitral

 tribunals is strictly adhered to and only in exceptional

 circumstances adjournments are given. There is a rational and

 justification for the same. In respect of disputes relating to

 international commercial dealings, such arbitral tribunals ensure

 that they are decided with utmost alacrity and promptness.

 Such proceedings are not allowed to be dragged on

 unnecessarily causing delays. In fact, this is the culture which

 needs to be set-in in all kinds of arbitration proceedings,

 whether international or domestic. It is stated by the petitioner that proceedings were

 conducted in accordance with the established practice in

 England and procedure followed there. This is an important

 fact which cannot be lost sight off. If such procedure is

 followed as prevalent in the country where the arbitration

 took place, it cannot be said that the same would be in

 violation of principles of natural justice when considered on

 the touchstone of law prevailing in India. Way back in the

 year 1963, the Supreme Court in the case of R. Vishwanathan &

 Ors. v. R. Gajambal Ammal & Ors., AIR 1963 SC 1, made

 following pertinent observations relating to enforcement of

 foreign judgments in India :- In other words, what the Courts are vigilant to watch is
 that the defendant has not been deprived of an opportunity to
 present his side of the case. The wholesome maxim audi
 alteram partem is deemed to be of universal, not merely of
 domestic application. The problem, in fact, has been narrowed
 down to two cases. The first is that of assumed jurisdiction over absent
 defendants.... Secondly, it is a violation of natural justice if a
 litigant, though present at the proceedings, was unfairly
 prejudiced in the presentation of his case to the Court."

 It is unnecessary to consider whether the passages relied upon
 are susceptible of the interpretation suggested, for private
 international law is but a branch of the Municipal law of the
 State in which the Court which is called upon to give effect to a
 foreign judgment functions and by S. 13 of the Civil Procedure
 Code (Act V of 1908) a foreign judgment is not regarded as
 conclusive if the proceeding in which the judgment was
 obtained is opposed to natural justice. Whatever may be the
 content of the rule of private international law relating to
 "natural justice" in England or elsewhere (and we will for the
 purpose of this argument assume that the plea that a foreign
 judgment is opposed to natural justice is now restricted in
 other jurisdictions only to two grounds - want of due notice
 and denial of opportunity to a party to present case) the plea
 has to be considered in the light of the Statute law of India, Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 27 of 32 and there is nothing in S.13 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
 1908 which warrants the restriction of the nature suggested. 41. By S.13 of the Civil Procedure Code a foreign judgment
 is made conclusive as to any matter thereby directly
 adjudicated upon between the same parties. But it is the
 essence of a judgment of a Court that it must be obtained after
 due observance of the judicial process, i.e. the Court rendering
 the judgment must observe the minimum requirements of
 natural justice - it must be composed of impartial persons,
 acting fairly, without bias, and in good faith, it must give
 reasonable notice to the parties to the dispute and afford each
 party adequate opportunity of presenting his case. A foreign
 judgment of a competent Court is conclusive even if it
 proceeds on an erroneous view of the evidence or the law, if
 the minimum requirements of the judicial process are assured: It is not enough, therefore, to say that the result works injustice
 in the particular case, because a wrong decision always does."
 A judgment will not be conclusive, however, if the proceeding
 in which it was obtained is opposed to natural justice. The
 words of the statute make it clear that to exclude a judgment
 under cl. (d) from the rule of conclusiveness the procedure
 must be opposed to natural justice. A judgment which is the
 result of bias or want of impartiality on the part of a Judge will
 be regarded as a nullity and the "trial coram non judice" I do not find the objection of the respondent No.2

 getting covered by any of the principles on which such an

 award could be challenged, namely, the respondent No.2

 could not establish that the Tribunal did not consist of impartial

 persons or it did not act fairly, without bias, or in good faith.

 Reasonable notice was given to the parties to the dispute by Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 28 of 32 fixing the schedule much in advance and if that schedule was

 followed rigorously and even if adjournment was refused, that

 would not amount to denial of principles of natural justice. The

 Apex Court in Hariom Maheshwari v. Vinit Kumar Parikh, JT

 2004 (10) SC 360, clearly laid down that where a party is

 refused an adjournment and where it is not prevented from

 presenting its case, it cannot, normally, claim violation of

 natural justice and denial of a fair hearing. The observations made in R. Vishwanathan & Ors. v. R.

 Gajambal Ammal & Ors. (supra) (para 41), answers the other

 objection of the respondent No.2 as well, i.e. foreign award

 (which is not enforceable as decree) is conclusive even if it

 proceeds on an erroneous view of the evidence or law.

 Therefore, it is not permissible to go into the other issues raised

 regarding non-production of the author of the CRTI report and

 instead the petitioner producing its own experts, etc. (d) Some other objections to the award are also taken, as

 noted in the earlier paragraphs of this judgment, namely,

 negligence on the part of the petitioner in not storing the cargo

 properly; not going into the question of mitigation of losses;

 quantum of damages granted being unreasonable, etc.

 However, these are the issues on the merits of the award which

 are not within the permissible scope of objections. Therefore, I

 do not find merit in any of the other objections. The aforesaid objections clearly remind us that the same

 are simply hyper-technical in nature. 28. For international arbitration to have credibility, the arbitral award

 arising from it must be a meaningful remedy. In other words, success

 in arbitration is ultimately determined by the successful enforcement

 of the arbitral award. Once the arbitral tribunal's decision has been

 made in the form of an award, it is an implied term of every

 arbitration agreement that the parties will carry it out. Although, one

 may acknowledge that to be performed the award should be

 recognized and enforced in a national court otherwise it does not

 have much practical value [Source: Tibor Várady, et al., International

 Commercial Arbitration, Thompson West (2003), p. 733]. Gunther

 Horvath in its article 'The Duty of the Tribunal to Render an

 Enforceable Award‟ (2001) 18 Journal of International Arbitration

 135 remarked: 29. It is therefore essential that such an award when properly rendered

 be legally binding and enforceable both at the place where it is

 rendered and at the place where the judgment debtor has assets. As

 Alan Redfern & Martin Hunter [Law & Practice of International Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 30 of 32 Commercial Arbitration, Sweet & Maxwell Ltd. (3rd Ed. 1999), p.

 449] aptly puts it: 30. Thus, one should favour a pro-arbitration approach with respect to

 the enforcement of foreign arbitral award. The said approach is

 apparent from the observation of the Singapore High Court (per

 Judith Prakash, J.) whereby an argument was rejected on the ground

 of public policy in the course of resisting the enforcement of a foreign

 arbitral award In Re An Arbitration between Hainan Machinery

 Import and Export Corporation and Donald & McArthy Pte Ltd.,

 [1996] 1 SLR 34 which reads as under: It is not suggested that the courts in India would not refuse to

 enforce an international award even if a case is made out for

 interference within the four corners of Section 48 of the 1996 Act

 read with section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure. However, once

 it is found that the award is properly rendered, it is the duty of the

 courts in India to enforce the same. 31. In view of the aforesaid discussion, prayer made in OMP No.

 173/1998 is allowed and interim order dated 13.8.1998 is made

 absolute till the time the decretal amount as per the award is paid by

 the respondent No.2 and decree satisfied. OMP is disposed of with

 these directions. 32. Insofar as Execution Petition is concerned, the respondent No.2 is

 directed to make the payment within eight weeks from today. If no

 payment is made, the petitioner would be entitled to get the orders

 of attachment of the properties of the respondent No.2 and take

 further course of action to realize its amounts under the award from

 the respondent No.2. Matter shall be listed before the Regular Bench

 on 18th August 2008. 1. Whether Reporters of Local newspapers may be allowed
 to see the Judgment? 2. To be referred to the Reporter or not? 3. Whether the Judgment should be reported in the Digest?

A.K. SIKRI, J. For orders, see Ex.P. No. 74/2000. (A.K. SIKRI)
 JUDGE
June 04, 2008
nsk Ex.P. No. 74/2000 & OMP No. 173/1998 nsk Page 33 of 32