“Ten years ago, Match Group was Google’s partner. We are now its hostage. Google lured app developers to its platform with assurances that we could offer users a choice over how to pay for the services they want. But once it monopolized the market for Android app distribution with Google Play by riding the coattails of the most popular app developers, Google sought to ban alternative in-app payment processing services so it could take a cut of nearly every in-app transaction on Android. This Complaint lays bare Google’s misdeeds that made it possible,” Match Group, the owner of popular dating apps like Tinder, Match.com, Hinge, OkCupid, and PlentyofFish, said in its lawsuit against Google filed in a federal court in California on May 9.

Match’s lawsuit comes ahead of Google’s June 1 deadline to remove apps not compliant with its new payments policy , which requires all apps to mandatorily use the company’s own billing system for sales of digital goods and services.

“This lawsuit is a measure of last resort. We tried, in good faith, to resolve these concerns with Google, but their insistence and threats has left us no choice.” — Match Chief Executive Shar Dubey

In India, Google has given developers until October 31, 2022, to comply with the new payments policy, but the fate of this policy, and the Play Store itself, is dependent on the outcome of the Competition Commission of India’s antitrust investigation .

The lawsuit adds to the growing list of legal battles and regulatory scrutiny that Google Play Store (and Apple App Store) is facing from around the world. In the US, Play Store faces another lawsuit by Fortnite-maker Epic Games, which is backed by 35 US states .

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

In a statement to The Verge, Google spokesperson Dan Jackson said:

“This is just a continuation of Match Group’s self-interested campaign to avoid paying for the significant value they receive from the mobile platforms they’ve built their business on. Like any business, we charge for our services, and like any responsible platform, we protect users against fraud and abuse in apps. Match Group is currently attracting regulator concerns over things like deceptive subscription practices, and with this filing they continue to put money ahead of user protection.

Match Group’s apps are eligible to pay just 15% on Google Play for digital subscriptions, which is the lowest rate among major app platforms. But even if they don’t want to comply with Google Play’s policies, Android’s openness still provides them multiple ways of distributing their apps to Android users, including through other Android app stores, directly to users via their website or as consumption-only apps.”

Google has also published a blog post addressing the lawsuit.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event