Ms. Parna Roy Choudhury, Adv

 Hearing concluded on : 16.10.2023

 Judgment on : 17.11.2023

 Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J:- The court will not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the

 reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the

 FIR or the complaint and that the extraordinary or inherent powers do

 not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its

 whim or caprice. 19. It is submitted that the complaint lodged by the bank and the FIR

 registered on the basis of the same are valid even beyond the Master

 Circular of the RBI, since the Sections clubbed against the petitioner

 are under the Indian Penal Code . It is pointed out that there are also

 ingredients of allegations under the Prevention of Corruption Act ,

 since certain officials of the Bank were also allegedly involved in the

 offence, being hand-in-glove with the petitioner. 20. Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, it is found that although

 the writ petition has challenged the complaint as well as all

 consequential actions, arguments have primarily been advanced in

 respect of the complaint. Learned counsel for the petitioner, in fact,

 clarified during arguments that subject to the outcome of the present

 writ petition, the petitioner would take appropriate steps in respect of

 the FIR. As such, since the challenge is limited to the complaint, it

 cannot be said that the non-impleadment of the CBI, that is, the

 Investigating Agency, renders the writ petition bad for misjoinder of

 necessary party. 21. A perusal of the complaint dated June 18, 2021 clearly betrays the

 intention of the Bank to rely solely on the declaration of the petitioner

 as wilful defaulter as the basis of such complaint, contrary to the

 submissions of learned senior counsel appearing for the Bank. In the

 very first paragraph of the complaint, the Bank indicates that the

 request for lodging an FIR is for the offence of fraud "by siphoning and

 diversion of funds, criminal misappropriation, criminal breach of

 trust, cheating etc., for causing loss to public money to the tune of

 more than Rs. 1964 Cr.". The expressions „siphoning and diversion of

 funds‟ and „loss to public money‟ point to grounds of the RBI Master

 Circular on Wilful Defaulter dated July 1, 2015. In the second

 paragraph of the complaint, it is clarified that the FIR was being

 lodged by the PNB on behalf of itself and other consortium member-

 Banks for the offences indicated above. 22. Notably, „diversion of funds‟ and „siphoning of funds‟ are the two

 plinths of declaration of wilful defaulter under the Master Circular. 23. Clause 4 of the Master Circular contemplates criminal action against

 wilful defaulters. 24. Clause 4.1 contains the JPC (Joint Parliamentary Committee)

 recommendations which also mention that it is essential that offences

 of „breach of trust‟ or „cheating‟ construed to have been committed in

 the case of loans should be clearly defined under the „existing statutes‟

 governing the Banks, providing for criminal action in all cases where

 the borrowers divert the funds with mala fide intentions. 8 25. Clause 4.2(ii) provides that it is essential to recognize that there is

 scope even under the existing legislations to initiate criminal action

 against wilful defaulters depending upon facts and circumstances of

 the case under the provisions of Sections 403 and 415 of the IPC and

 that Banks are advised to seriously and promptly consider initiating

 criminal action against wilful defaulters or wrong certification by

 borrowers, wherever considered necessary, based on the facts and

 circumstances of each case under the above provisions of the IPC to

 comply with the instructions of the JPC. 26. In the impugned complaint, the Bank also mentions the insolvency

 proceeding before the NCLT initiated subsequent to classification of

 the account of the borrower-company as NPA (Non-Performing Asset).

 The CIRP against the borrower-company was also mentioned, along

 with the liquidation proceeding. The Bank mentioned in the

 complaint that a Forensic Auditor was appointed during the CIRP

 process and the findings of the Auditor comprised of the allegations of

 fraudulent transactions which collectively formed the basis of the

 complaint. 27. The Bank mentions in the last paragraph of internal page no.8 of the

 complaint that in view of the facts and circumstances, it is clear that

 the accused persons have jointly hatched conspiracy against Public

 Sector Banks with intent to cheat the bank by diverting/siphoning of

 money and committed various offences under relevant provisions of IPC including criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation and

 cheating on the Bank. 28. The Bank went on further to mention the issuance of an LOC at the

 behest of the Bank. 29. The entire allegation of fraud, cheating and criminal misappropriation

 was attributed to diversion and siphoning of funds allegedly done by

 the petitioner and the borrower-company. Importantly, in the

 penultimate page of the complaint, the bank states that since the

 amount involved in the alleged offences is more than Rs.1964 Cr., the

 FIR was being lodged before the "competent authority of CBI". 30. The importance of the said statement can be found within the four

 corners of the RBI Master Direction on Frauds dated July 1, 2016

 (updated on July 3, 2017) itself. Chapter VI of the same deals with

 guidelines for reporting frauds to police/CBI and delineates in a chart

 as to which complaint should go to which of the Investigating

 Agencies, alternatively the State Police, SBIO (Ministry of Corporate

 Affairs), State CID, Economic Offences Wing of the State or the CBI.

 In case of offences in respect of Public Sector Banks for alleged frauds

 of Rs. 30 million and above, the competent investigating agency before

 which the complaint should be lodged as per the said Master Direction

 is the CBI. 31. The TAR and the fraud classification of the account were relevant

 criteria considered by the IC for classifying the petitioner as a wilful

 defaulter. Thus, the very language of the complaint clearly reveals

 that the same was initiated in terms of the Master Circular for Wilful

 Defaulters dated July 1, 2015, following from the fraud classification

 under the Master Direction on Frauds dated July 1, 2016. 10 32. The arguments made by the Bank to the effect that the Bank also had

 the legal right as an informant to lodge a complaint under the general

 criminal law is belied by the very averments of the complaint, which

 entirely revolve around the grounds made out by the Bank in the

 wilful defaulter proceeding. The very basis of the complaint was the

 Wilful Defaulter declaration which in turn was based on the NCLT

 proceedings and the Fraud Classification of the company‟s account. 33. A further clear pointer in that regard is the complaint being lodged

 before the CBI and not before the State Police or any other authority,

 on the specific assertion in the complaint that the offences being more

 than Rs. 1964 Cr., the complaint was being lodged before the

 "competent authority of CBI". 34. The different components of the alleged offences averred against the

 petitioner in the impugned complaint had and have already lost their

 efficacy and spent their force when the FIR against the petitioner was

 registered two years after (solely on the basis of such complaint). The

 reasons for so finding are as follows: 35. The wilful defaulter declaration, which was the very premise of the

 complaint, was recalled by the IC itself. It is noteworthy that although

 liberty was given to the bank by the IC to proceed afresh in a similar

 proceeding on the basis of independent documents, if any, no such

 proceeding has been initiated against by the Bank, despite about one

 year having passed after the said observation of the IC dated

 November 9, 2022. 36. In its observations, the IC itself took note of the fact that the

 allegations of preferential and undervalued transactions of shares

 against the borrower-company and the petitioner were turned down by

 the NCLT, which was affirmed by the NCLAT as far back as on July

 25, 2019 and September 30, 2019 respectively. While doing so, the

 TAR, which was the very basis of the allegations, dated August 24,

 2018, was categorically disbelieved by the NCLT and NCLAT. 37. Thus, by necessary implication, the recall of the wilful defaulter

 declaration also further endorsed the fact that TAR was an invalid

 basis of making the allegations against the petitioner. 38. Thirdly, even the fraud classification under the Master Direction dated

 July 1, 2016 was set aside by the Delhi High Court. 39. Interestingly, in the FIR dated August 18, 2023, which followed the

 Delhi High Judgment dated May 12, 2023, under the column

 "Reasons for delay in reporting by the complainant/informant" the

 CBI attributed the delay to the pendency of the matter before the Delhi

 High Court. Thus, the CBI/Investigating Agency clearly admits that

 the classification of fraud of the account by the PNB was the premise

 of the complaint lodged. In the present case, however, the wilful

 defaulter declaration has been suo motu recalled by the IC, the fraud

 classification has been set aside by the Delhi High Court and all the

 forums, including the NCLT and the NCLAT have disbelieved the TAR,

 which was the only premise of all the allegations against the

 petitioner. Thus, on the date of registration of the FIR, that is, August 12 18, 2023 none of the bank‟s allegations in the complaint survived to

 justify registration of the FIR on such premise. 40. In any event, the allegations of offences under the Prevention of

 Corruption Act, 1988 were primarily against the officials of the bank

 and not against the petitioner on a standalone footing. 41. It is palpable from the observations in the FIR under the heading

 "reasons for delay" that the very premise on which the FIR was lodged

 was erroneous. It was specifically stipulated therein that the First

 Information Report which has been lodged and the proceedings

 thereunder remained unaffected in terms of the Delhi High Court

 order, which is palpably wrong. 42. In paragraph 6 of its judgment, the Delhi High Court observed that

 any First Information Report which has been lodged, and proceedings

 pursuant thereto, remain unaffected by the order. The order of the

 Delhi High Court is dated May 12, 2023 whereas the FIR was

 registered on August 18, 2023, that is subsequently. Hence, neither

 the FIR nor the proceedings pursuant thereto, if any, fell within the

 exception contemplated in the Delhi High Court order. 43. However, since the petitioner has not categorically challenged the FIR

 in the present case while arguing, the veracity of the FIR need not be

 gone into further. 44. In view of the above discussions, the arguments of the Bank that the

 complaint was mere information under Section 154 of the Code of

 Criminal Procedure cannot be accepted, since the complaint came

 categorically within the contemplation of the RBI Master Direction 13 dated July 1, 2016 and Master Circular dated July 1, 2015 and was

 lodged solely in terms of those Circulars/Directions. 45. Thus, the support sought to be drawn by the Bank from Lalita

 Kumari‟s case is misplaced. 46. Insofar as Bhajanlal (supra) is concerned, the Supreme Court

 reiterated that the test to be applied for quashing a prosecution is

 whether the uncontroverted allegations as made prima facie

 established the offence. 47. In paragraph 103 of Bhajanlal (supra), relied on by the Bank itself, the

 parameters of interference by the Court were laid down. It was

 observed that the court would not be justified in embarking upon an

 enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness of the allegations made in

 the FIR. 48. In the present case, no fact-finding enquiry into the genuineness or

 reliability of the allegations need be entered into at all in view of the

 admitted position that none of the grounds made out in the complaint

 subsist today or subsisted on the date of registration of the FIR.

 Moreover, the complaint being made clearly within the contemplation

 of Clause 4.2(ii) of the Master Circular dated July 1, 2015, read with

 Chapter VI of the RBI Master Direction dated July 1, 2016, has been

 rendered infructuous in view of the declarations of wilful defaulter and

 fraud having been recalled/set aside before even the registration of the

 FIR. 49. The argument of the Bank that no legal right of the petitioner has

 been infringed cannot be accepted either. The right to live with dignity 14 is an integral part of any human being, enshrined and guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Equality before the law is

 another important aspect, guaranteed under Article 14 of the

 Constitution. The moment arbitrariness and/or mala fides is

 exhibited against a citizen of India, a contravention of Article 14 occurs as in the present case. The impugned complaint against the

 petitioner dated June 18, 2021, thus, being palpably vitiated as on

 today as well as on the date of filing of the writ petition and the

 registration of the FIR, cannot be sustained as against the petitioner. 50. In view of the above observations, WPO No.1626 of 2023 is allowed on

 contest, thereby setting aside the impugned complaint lodged by the

 PNB requesting the CBI to register FIR dated June 18, 2021 insofar as

 the writ petitioner is concerned. Liberty is granted to the petitioner to

 approach the appropriate forum seeking quashing of the

 consequential FIR only so far as the petitioner is concerned and any

 ancillary action or investigation, which has been commenced against

 the petitioner on the basis of such FIR. 51. There will be no order as to costs. 52. Urgent certified server copies, if applied for, be issued to the parties

 upon compliance of due formalities. ( Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J. )