I.A. 30141/2025 (Under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 read with Section
 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908)

 INDEX TO THE JUDGMENT 1. Introduction ...............................................................Paras 1-3 2. Factual Matrix ....................................................... .........Para 4 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 1 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 2.1 Parties....................................................Paras 4.1-4.2
 2.2 Booking Note.............................................Paras 4.3-4.7
 2.3 Subsequent Events.....................................Paras 4.8-4.12
 2.4 First Arbitration/Reference..........................Paras 4.13-4.15
 2.5 Second Arbitration/Reference......................Paras 4.15-4.23 3. Plaintiffs‟ Submissions...............................................Paras 5-5.22 4. Defendant‟s Submissions............................................Paras 6-6.19 5. Findings and Analysis...................................................Paras 7-99
 5.1 Whether this Court has the jurisdiction to entertain the present
 suit?.....................................................................Paras 12-33
 5.2 Whether there is a binding contract between the
 parties?................................................................Paras 34-46
 5.3 Whether there exists a valid Arbitration Clause between the
 parties?................................................................Paras 47-75
 5.4 Whether the impugned arbitration proceedings are oppressive,
 vexatious or unconscionable?.....................................Paras 76-99 6. Conclusion..........................................................Paras 100-104

 INTRODUCTION: stowing in order to avoid any rolling stock being stowed on deck. The said
 communication was replied to by the defendant on the same day, stating that
 their technical team had advised that it would still be necessary to stow 12
 trucks on deck. 4.10. On 20th April, 2023, the United Nations formally terminated the
 Purchase Order with the plaintiffs, citing force majeure reasons and directed
 the plaintiffs to retain the cargo at Mumbai, pending further instructions.
 Consequently, the defendant through its agent tendered a Note of Readiness
 ("NOR") on 20th April, 2023 at the load port. Further, on the same date, the
 defendant claimed damages from the plaintiffs to the tune of USD
 584,741.10/- for ‗dead freight'. 4.11. The parties exchanged a number of emails from 20 th to 27th April, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 5 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 2023, wherein, the plaintiff no. 2 reiterated the cancellation of the Booking
 Note along with non-acceptance of vessel substitution, whereas, the
 defendant claimed its damages for ‗dead freight'.
 4.12. A Demand Notice dated 27th June, 2023 was sent by the defendant in
 the capacity as the owner of the vessel - „MV Panthera J‟, claiming wrongful
 termination of the Booking Note, and making a demand for damages. The
 said Notice was replied by the plaintiff no. 2 on 12 th July, 2023, denying the
 claims of the defendant, and asserting that the Booking Note had been
 lawfully cancelled. First Arbitration/Reference
 4.13. Subsequently, the defendant issued a Notice dated 27 th July, 2023,
 invoking arbitration under the Arbitration Clause, i.e., Clause 43 of the
 Booking Note. The parties then appointed their arbitrators and the defendant
 filed their Claim Submissions on 28th September, 2023 and a Statement of
 Defense was filed by plaintiff no. 2 on 26th October, 2023. Further,
 Reply/Rejoinder Submissions were filed by the defendant on 09th
 November, 2023, which were refuted by the plaintiff no. 2 on 04th
 December, 2023 in its rejoinder. 4.14. Thereafter, on 06th June, 2024, the defendant informed the plaintiffs
 that they intended to amend their submissions before the LMAA. The
 defendant then applied with the LMAA in October, 2024, for determination
 of preliminary issues and on 08th October, 2024, sought for directions on the
 defendant‟s request for amendment. During this course, the parties had
 exchanged various communications amongst themselves and with the
 LMAA. 4.15. The LMAA issued a communication on 22nd November, 2024, stating Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 6 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 that before making any decision on the preliminary issues, it was necessary
 to examine certain other issues, and therefore, the LMAA observed that the
 decision on the preliminary issues in the first arbitration reference would
 only be binding on plaintiff no. 2, i.e., SARR Freights Limited, and in this
 regard, the defendant was required to review its position.
 Second Arbitration/Reference
 4.16. The defendant by Email dated 06th December, 2024, served a Notice
 of commencement of a second arbitration in relation to the Booking Note
 against plaintiff no. 1. The same was replied to by plaintiff no. 2 by Email
 dated 19th December, 2024, denying the claims of the defendant, with notice
 of appointment of its arbitrator, without prejudice to their objections.
 4.17. The defendant filed its Claim Submissions on 15th January, 2025 and
 the plaintiff no. 1 filed their Defense Submissions on 13th February, 2025.
 Further, the rejoinder was filed by the defendant on 28th February, 2025.
 4.18. The LMAA in the Second Arbitration/Reference by way of Order
 dated 26th March, 2025 decided to rule on certain preliminary issues and
 allowed for the two arbitration proceedings to be heard concurrently. The
 preliminary issues for determination, as framed by the LMAA, are as
 follows: 4.20. Pursuant to the same, on 21st August, 2025, a third arbitrator was
 appointed by the two existing arbitrators in consonance with paragraph 8 (b)(ii) of the LMAA Terms, 2021. 4.21. Subsequently, on 18th October, 2025, the Partial Award was passed by
 the majority Tribunal, dismissing the plaintiffs‟ objections on all four
 preliminary issues. Further, one of the co-arbitrators issued a Dissenting
 Award, wherein, he concurred with the findings of the majority in respect of
 Issue Nos. 1 to 3, however, dissented on Issue No. 4, holding that the
 reference to arbitration by the defendant is not maintainable.
 4.22. Thereafter, the defendant by way of Email dated 20th November,
 2025, while referring to the Tribunal‟s determination, proposed for a
 timetable up to the Final Award. 4.23. Thus, the plaintiffs have approached this Court and have filed the
 present suit and application, being aggrieved by the arbitration proceedings
 commenced by the defendant in London before the LMAA.
 PLAINTIFFS‟ SUBMISSIONS: 5. The plaintiffs have made the following submissions, for the purposes
 of the present application: arbitration injunctions when the exceptional circumstances show that the
 arbitral proceedings would be vexatious, oppressive or against the public
 policy of India. 5.3. This Court has jurisdiction for the present matter as part cause of
 action arose in New Delhi, as the shipment of goods originated from New
 Delhi, negotiations and even payments were made at New Delhi. Further,
 the Booking Note was part of the same transaction, and even bears the stamp
 which mentions the word, "Delhi". Moreover, the List of Equipment, Pre-
 Dispatch Inspection Reports, Packing Lists contained in the Fixture Recap
 and the Booking Note, all mention that the voyage was between New Delhi
 and Sudan. Thus, the contract was partially performed in New Delhi and in
 terms of Section 20(c) of CPC, this Court has jurisdiction as substantial part
 of cause of action took place in New Delhi. 5.4. The plaintiffs are amenable to the personal jurisdiction of the Courts
 of New Delhi, as they carry on their business at their registered office in
 New Delhi and in matters seeking anti-arbitration injunctions, jurisdiction
 lies with Courts, to which the plaintiffs are personally amenable. Further,
 any enforcement proceedings in relation to arbitration would be filed in New Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 9 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 Delhi, as all assets of the plaintiffs are in New Delhi.
 5.5. The mere participation of the plaintiffs in the arbitration proceedings
 till the Partial Award was passed on jurisdictional objections, does not mean
 that the Civil Court is powerless to grant injunctive relief to prevent
 vexatious or oppressive conduct of the defendant, using the inherent powers
 under Section 151 read with Section 9 of the CPC. 5.6. There is no bar on a Civil Court‟s intervention due to the principle of
 Kompetenz-Kompetenz, as the doctrine does not create any presumption in
 favour of the Tribunal on which the parties have not conferred jurisdiction,
 and a party cannot be compelled to submit to arbitral process, which are
 alleged to be fundamentally unfair or structurally compromised.
 5.7. The present is a case which squarely falls within the narrow class of
 exceptional circumstances warranting judicial intervention as the plaintiffs
 have been compelled to arbitrate despite there being no arbitration clause
 between the parties. Further, the defendant has pursued parallel arbitral
 proceedings on the same cause of action and sought to substitute parties
 after one year of the commencement of the arbitration despite absence of
 privity, dragged the arbitration along for another whole year to complete
 pleadings in the Second Reference, thereafter, procured a Partial Award by
 effectively rewriting the underlying contract, and at last, abandoned the First
 Reference after the plaintiffs filed the present anti-arbitration injunction suit.
 Thus, each of these acts on part of the defendant constitutes procedural
 oppression, and reveals an abuse of the arbitral process.
 5.8. The defendant was never party to the Booking Note, rather it was only
 the owner of MV Pelagica, with whom the plaintiff no. 2 had a contract.
 Therefore, there is no privity of contract with the defendant. 5.9. The rectification of the Booking Note by the LMAA creates an
 arbitration agreement between the parties, which is completely opposed to
 the public policy of India. Further, the mandate of the Specific Relief Act,
 1963 is clear that rectification of contract or any instrument can only be
 done by the Court and that too, if the parties specifically claim such relief in
 their pleadings. Therefore, the rectification of the contract by the Tribunal
 when no arbitration agreement existed between the parties usurps the
 jurisdiction of the Courts as expressed in Clause 4 of the Booking Note, and
 thus, in effect, is untenable. Moreover, Clause 4 of the Booking Note was
 only in connection to the Bill of Lading, which never came into existence.
 5.10. Section 28(3) of the Arbitration Act categorically provides that a
 Tribunal shall consider the terms of the contract while deciding and making
 an Award. Therefore, despite there being an express and unambiguous
 reference to ―Additional Rider Clauses 20-41‖ in the Booking Note, which
 was consciously chosen by the parties, the Tribunal by importing an
 arbitration clause under the guise of „typographical error‟, disregarded the
 intention of the parties and the same is against the tenor of Section 28(3) of
 the Arbitration Act. 5.11. The Booking Note further records that it shall be performed subject to
 the terms contained on pages 1 and 2 thereof, and that those terms shall
 prevail over any prior negotiations or understandings. The said aspect is in
 the nature of an entire agreement clause, which disregards all prior
 negotiations/arrangements. Therefore, Clause 4 of the „Standard Terms‟
 which confers jurisdiction on Courts situated in the Carrier‟s principal place
 of business, i.e., Denmark, cannot be rewritten or rectified. Further, the
 contractual intent of the parties is manifest from the Booking Note itself, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 11 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 wherein, the parties expressly incorporated only the Additional Rider
 Clauses 20-41 under the „Special Terms‟, and Clauses 42 and 43 were
 expressly excluded. 5.12. The contention of the defendant that the plaintiffs have waived their
 right to challenge the Partial Award by not challenging the said Award in
 England and approaching this Court, is untenable, as the Courts in England
 under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 of the United Kingdom
 ("UK Arbitration Act"), could not have granted the relief sought by the
 plaintiffs for stay on the impugned arbitration proceedings on account of it
 being vexatious and oppressive. 5.13. The Courts of London would not have jurisdiction as the plaintiff has
 challenged the very existence of a valid and binding arbitration agreement.
 Therefore, even if the „seat‟ as per Arbitration Clause is „London‟, the same
 would not apply in view of an invalid arbitration agreement. Further, no
 cause of action had taken place in London for the Courts therein to assume
 jurisdiction, and reliance on the Fixture Recap cannot be construed to
 include an intentionally excluded Arbitration Clause, particularly, when the
 Booking Note expressly supersedes the Fixture Recap.
 5.14. Even if London is treated to be the seat of arbitration, still LMAA
 procedure will not automatically be applicable. 5.15. The substitution of a party during the course of arbitral proceedings is
 unknown to the arbitration law and strikes at the root of procedural fairness,
 and the attempt of the defendant to reframe its case by invoking arbitration
 for the second time, is procedural abuse. Further, while the First Reference
 was pending, the defendant, without withdrawing or abandoning the same,
 commenced the Second Reference arising out of the same Booking Note, for Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 12 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 the same voyage and the same alleged breach, with the same cause of action.
 Therefore, the invocation of parallel proceedings constitutes procedural
 oppression by the defendant. 5.16. Any mistakes with regard to the Booking Note will be attributable to
 the draftsmen, and the Booking Note was admittedly a standard form
 contract. Further, there can be no rectification in case of a unilateral mistake,
 which is not attributable to the plaintiffs and the doctrine of contra
 preferentum states that if a document is capable of two interpretations, the
 one favoring the non-draftsmen would prevail. Therefore, any error in the
 standard form contract cannot be read against the plaintiffs as it was not
 drafted by the plaintiffs. 5.17. The LMAA qua Issue No. 1 has held that there was an arbitration
 agreement between the parties with the reasoning that the non-addition of
 the Arbitration Clause was a „typographical error‟, and the plaintiffs had
 signed on all the pages of the Booking Note. Therefore, it was inferred that
 Arbitration Clause was not included because of a „typographical error‟.
 However, the Tribunal overlooked that Clause 41, which was included in the
 terms of the Booking Note, is on the same page as Clauses 42 and 43, and
 therefore, the plaintiffs had signed the said page.
 5.18. The Tribunal‟s finding on Issue No. 4 is perverse and is opposed to
 the public policy of India, as the contract was entered with the agents, i.e.,
 Ocean7 Projects ApS acting on behalf of the owners of MV Pelagica as the
 Carrier. Therefore, the findings of the Tribunal have compelled the plaintiffs
 to arbitrate against a party with whom there is no contractual privity.
 5.19. The LMAA, despite recognizing that the two impugned arbitration
 proceedings involve the same dispute and arise from the same contract and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 13 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 cause of action, nevertheless, permitted both arbitral proceedings to continue
 simultaneously, instead of terminating the First Reference. Thus, the
 plaintiffs have been compelled to defend two parallel proceedings, which is
 plainly oppressive, vexatious, and travels beyond the permissible limits of
 arbitral jurisdiction, and falls within circumstances for grant of injunction in
 favour of the plaintiffs. 5.20. The prosecution of two parallel arbitration proceedings, on the same
 cause of action, arising out of the same Booking Note, and claiming the
 same relief, is opposed to the public policy of India. Further, the defendant
 in its Reply to I.A. No 30141/2025 filed before this Court, has expressly
 admitted that it has dropped the First Reference and that it is now pursuing
 arbitration only against plaintiff no. 1, which supports the position of the
 plaintiffs that parallel proceedings are untenable and abusive. Abandonment
 of First Reference, which was pursued for a year and a half, does not cure
 the prejudice already caused to the plaintiffs, and continuation of the
 surviving arbitration in itself is oppressive and unconscionable.
 5.21. The contract between the parties substantively only provided an
 option for substitution of the vessel and not for substitution of parties,
 meaning thereby, that the owner of MV Pelagica, or its agent, could have
 substituted the vessel with another compliant vessel (of equivalent capacity
 and capability) owned or operated by them. It was never contemplated that
 the plaintiff no. 2 (the Charterer) would be dealing with an unknown vessel
 owner/charteree/contracting party. 5.22. The balance of convenience is in favour of the plaintiffs as no harm
 will be caused to the defendant. However, if the arbitration before LMAA
 continues, the plaintiffs will be compelled to submit to a process that may Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 14 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 ultimately be held to be without jurisdiction, and therefore, irreparable harm
 will also be caused to the plaintiffs. DEFENDANT‟S SUBMISSIONS: 6. The defendant has made the following submissions, for the purposes
 of the present application: Moreover, the defendant is only pursuing arbitration proceedings against
 plaintiff no. 1, and any relief seeking injunction against arbitration
 proceedings with plaintiff no. 2 is infructuous. 6.2. This Court lacks territorial jurisdiction as the plaint does not disclose
 any material that substantial or integral part of cause of action had arisen
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Therefore, the grounds taken
 by the plaintiffs fail to establish the territorial jurisdiction of this Court.
 6.3. Section 20 of the CPC can only be invoked where the defendant
 resides or carries on the business. The residence or carrying of business of
 the plaintiffs does not vest territorial jurisdiction in this Court. Further, the
 Booking Note has been signed by the agents residing in Denmark and the
 same was exchanged over Email, therefore, it cannot be said that the
 Booking Note was executed in India. 6.4. The case of the plaintiffs that the personal amenability of the plaintiffs
 to the jurisdiction of the Courts in New Delhi would inure this Court with
 jurisdiction is incorrect, as the same can only be effected if both the parties
 make such reference, and thus, the same is against the tenor of Section 20 of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 15 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 CPC . 6.5. No performance of the contract or part thereof has given rise to a
 cause of action before this Court. The cause of action arises at the place
 where the contract was made, or where it is performed or breached. Further,
 the dispute occurs from a foreign seated agreement, negotiated through
 brokers and agents outside of Delhi, with a foreign owned vessel for a
 foreign voyage, and the alleged breach of cancellation of foreign shipment.
 Thus, the plaintiffs have failed to establish any cause of action that has
 arisen before this Court. 6.6. The contention of the plaintiffs that part cause of action arose in New
 Delhi is incorrect, as the document relied upon by the plaintiffs to
 substantiate the same was executed between the plaintiffs and the United
 Nations, and therefore, the defendant was not privy to that contract. Further,
 the other documents such as the List of Equipment, Pre-dispatch Inspection
 Report and Packing Lists, cannot be relied upon as the same pre-date the
 Booking Note and Fixture Recap, and the defendant was not a party to those
 documents. 6.7. The plaint does not plead that any meetings were conducted between
 plaintiff no. 2 and the defendant at New Delhi for execution of the Booking
 Note. The record reflects that negotiations were through the common broker
 and the agent, neither of whom are based out of New Delhi, and moreover,
 the Booking Note has not been signed in New Delhi. Therefore, the
 plaintiffs cannot travel beyond their pleadings.
 6.8. Even assuming that the correct law and jurisdiction is as per Clause 4
 of the Booking Note, the jurisdiction of this Court stood ousted as the said
 Clause provides for jurisdiction of Courts at the principal place of business Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 16 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 of the Carrier. Therefore, as the parties have agreed for arbitration as per
 English Law, the Courts of England would have jurisdiction. Thus, the
 plaintiffs cannot be allowed to approbate and reprobate on the clauses of the
 Booking Note. 6.9. The juridical seat of arbitration in the present case is London and
 therefore, it is only the English Courts which are vested with supervisory
 jurisdiction over the arbitral proceedings and the Partial Final Award. Any
 reliefs sought by the plaintiffs can only be before the English Courts. Thus,
 this Court does not possess concurrent or residual supervisory jurisdiction
 over a foreign seated arbitration. Moreover, even if the plaintiffs were to
 deny the existence of the arbitration agreement between the parties, they
 cannot seek a foreign award to be declared null and void in an anti-
 arbitration suit. 6.10. The parties had entered into the Fixture Recap on 04 th April, 2023,
 which included an Arbitration Clause, and the plaintiffs had no objections
 towards the same. Further, the Fixture Recap incorporates a binding and
 separable arbitration agreement which survives termination and provides for
 the designated seat of arbitration as „London‟. 6.11. The determination of validity of the arbitration clause falls squarely
 within the exclusive domain of the Arbitral Tribunal under the doctrine of
 Kompetenz-Kompetenz, and the said issue has already been adjudicated by
 the LMAA. 6.12. The Booking Note does not override the Fixture Recap and the
 expression ―prevail over‖ indicates an intention to override only
 inconsistent arrangements, and Clause 43 of the Booking Note is consistent
 with the Arbitration Clause in the Fixture Recap. Therefore, the parties Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 17 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 intended the arbitration agreement to subsist and to operate in tandem across
 both the documents. 6.13. The interpretation of the plaintiffs in relation to the „mutual typing
 mistake‟ does not amount to abuse, as both the Fixture Recap and Booking
 Note are of the same date. The page which contained both Clauses 42 & 43
 was signed by both the parties. 6.14. The invocation of two references to arbitration was due to the conduct
 of the plaintiffs, and the conduct of the defendant was bona fide, without any
 intent to harass. Further, the Tribunal has unanimously held plaintiff no. 1 to
 be the ―Merchant‖ under the Booking Note. Therefore, the defendant seeks
 to continue the arbitration proceedings only against plaintiff no. 1.
 6.15. The plaintiffs are barred by waiver, acquiescence, and estoppel from
 seeking any anti-arbitration relief as the plaintiffs participated in the arbitral
 proceedings before the Tribunal for over a period of two years, and now that
 the Partial Award has attained finality, the plaintiffs now seek to invoke the
 jurisdiction of this Court. However, the plaintiffs cannot approbate and
 reprobate to stall the arbitration proceedings. 6.16. The argument of the plaintiffs in relation to Section 67 of the UK
 Arbitration Act is incorrect, as the English Courts have the jurisdiction to set
 aside the Award if they arrive at a finding that the Tribunal does not have
 substantive jurisdiction. Further, the challenge to the Partial Final Award
 before this Court is legally untenable in the absence of challenge to the same
 in the supervisory Court within the prescribed limitation period as per the
 UK Arbitration Act. 6.17. The plaintiffs had accepted the vessel of the defendant without any
 objection, and the Fixture Recap expressly contemplated that the performing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 18 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 vessel would be ―MV Pelagica / MV Panthera J or sub in Carriers' option‖.
 Moreover, Clauses 6 and 20 of the Booking Note permitted substitution of
 the performing vessel without notice. Therefore, having accepted
 performance without protest, and thereafter, having themselves terminated
 the contract, the plaintiffs cannot now allege that the defendant is a stranger,
 or that the arbitration is oppressive. 6.18. The plaintiffs have failed to establish exceptional circumstances in the
 present case that an anti-arbitration injunction can be granted, as the
 proceedings before LMAA are not vexatious or oppressive. Further, even if
 a challenge has to be made on the said ground, it has to be made before the
 „Appropriate Court‟, which in this case would be the Courts of London.
 Moreover, even in domestic Courts, any challenge to an Award of the
 Arbitral Tribunal would be by way of an appropriate petition and not by way
 of a suit. 6.19. The ingredients of an interim injunction under the principles of Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 of CPC have not been satisfied by the plaintiffs.
 Further, the arbitration proceedings between the parties are neither
 ‗inoperative' nor ‗incapable of being performed', the ingredients, which a
 party has to showcase, for seeking any interim measure.
 FINDINGS AND ANALYSIS: 7. I have heard learned counsels for the parties and perused the record. 8. At the outset, it is clarified that this Court is not sitting in appeal
 against the Partial Final Award dated 18th October, 2025 passed in the
 arbitral proceedings by the LMAA in London, and is not adjudicating on the
 merits of the said Partial Final Award. 9. The scope of adjudication before this Court in the present proceedings Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 19 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 is with regard to the plea of the plaintiffs to pass injunction orders in order to
 restrain the defendant from continuing with the arbitral proceedings initiated
 by the defendant against the plaintiffs in London. The principal objection of
 the plaintiffs is that the defendant is not party to the contract, i.e., the
 Booking Note dated 04th April, 2023 and further, that the said Booking Note,
 on the basis of which arbitration proceedings have been initiated by the
 defendant, does not contain any Arbitration Clause. Further, it is the case of
 the plaintiffs that the defendant cannot rely on the Fixture Recap to create an
 Arbitration Clause between the parties or to read an Arbitration Clause into
 the Booking Note. Injunction of arbitral proceedings in London is sought by
 plaintiffs on the ground that the said proceedings are oppressive, vexatious
 and unconscionable. 10. It is further clarified that in the present proceedings, the Court is only
 concerned with the issue regarding the commencement and continuance of
 arbitral proceedings at the behest of defendant in London, and not the merits
 of the case regarding the claims of the respective parties. 11. In the first instance, the Court would deal with the issue regarding the
 jurisdiction of this Court, as raised by the defendant. In case, the Court
 comes to a conclusion at the present interim stage that this Court has
 territorial jurisdiction to entertain the present suit, this Court shall consider
 the pleas raised by the plaintiffs regarding the privity of contract with
 defendant, existence of a valid Arbitration Clause and whether the plaintiffs
 have established any prima facie case for interim injunction in their favour
 for injuncting the arbitration proceedings commenced at the behest of the
 defendant in London. Whether this Court has the jurisdiction to entertain the present suit? 12. On the aspect of jurisdiction as to subject-matter, it is to be noted
 foremost that it is settled principle that there exists an inherent right in every
 person to institute a suit of civil nature, and such a suit requires no specific
 statutory authorization, so long as it is not barred by any existing law, either
 impliedly or expressly. Section 9 of the CPC indicates that Civil Courts have
 the jurisdiction to try all Civil Suits except those which are expressly or
 impliedly barred and thus, the ouster of jurisdiction of a Civil Court would
 be based on an expressed or implied bar. Section 9 of CPC reads as under: 13. Reference in this respect as to jurisdiction of Civil Courts and Section
 9 of CPC may be made to the judgment of five-judge bench of the Supreme
 Court in the case of Dhulabhai Versus State of Madhya Pradesh and
 Another1, wherein, it has been held as follows: Neither of the two cases of Firm of Illuri Subbayya(1) or Kamala
 Mills (2) can be said to run counter to the series of cases earlier
 noticed. The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in
 this Court may be stated as follows: Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies
 and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment
 becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive. In
 the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special
 right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or
 liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right
 and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and
 whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts
 are prescribed by the said statute or not. (3) Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as ultra vires
 cannot be brought before tribunals constituted under that Act. Even
 the High Court cannot go into that question on a revision or reference
 from the decision of the tribunals. (4) When a provision is already declared unconstitutional or the
 constitutionality of any provision is to be challenged, a suit is open. A
 writ of certiorari may include a direction for refund if the claim is
 clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a
 compulsory remedy to replace a suit. (5) Where the particular Act contains no machinery for refund of tax
 collected in excess of constitutional limits or illegally collected a suit
 lies. (6) Questions of the correctness of the assessment apart from its
 constitutionality are for the decision of the authorities and a civil suit
 does not lie if the orders of the authorities are declared to be final or
 there is an express prohibition in the particular Act. In either case the
 scheme of the particular Act must be examined because it is a relevant
 enquiry. (7) An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to
 be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.
 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 14. Delving on the aspect of jurisdiction of the Civil Courts to entertain
 suits, including, suits wherein the relief of anti-arbitration injunction is
 prayed for, this Court in the case of Engineering Projects (India) Limited
 Versus MSA Global LLC (Oman)2, held as follows: arbitration injunction on the ground of vexatious conduct of the
 respondent therein. Interestingly, it was granted on the premise that
 the act of the respondent in trying to curtail the supervisory
 jurisdiction of the regular Court was ‗vexatious' as the respondent
 tried to deflect the challenge to the arbitral award by initiating fresh
 arbitration during the pendency of the challenge before the regular
 Court. The case is relevant to understand that it is against public
 interest to enforce an arbitration agreement/award if the foundation
 of the arbitral tribunal is in question, unless the serious
 apprehension against the Arbitral Tribunal is decided first. For, the
 Courts must prevent the perpetuation of a wrong, and not advance it
 by turning a blind eye. Of course, the Courts must be slow in
 intervening, but wherever there are demonstrable and undeniable
 facts, the Courts are duty bound to act on equitable considerations.
 xxx xxx xxx 63. The judicial authority of the Civil Courts under Section 9 of
 the CPC and its inherent powers under Section 151 CPC remain
 preserved to safeguard against the misuse of the arbitral process,
 unless expressly barred by the statute which is not the case herein.
 Where the arbitral proceedings are shown to have been vexatious
 and oppressive in a manner calculated to harass the opposite party,
 the Civil Courts are not only empowered but also under a solemn
 duty to intervene. It would be wholly unjust to compel a party to
 submit to arbitration when the process itself is a vehicle of abuse,
 serving no legitimate adjudicatory purpose. 64. The Civil Courts are essentially the custodian of all civil rights
 and in such situations, to summarily relegate a party to the arbitral
 forum, particularly when the very institution of arbitration is being
 used to perpetuate unfairness, would amount to a mechanical
 application of statutory principles, contrary to both equity and the
 broader constitutional mandate of access to justice. It is in these
 exceptional cases that the Civil Court must act as a sentinel on the
 qui vive i.e., watchful guardian, ensuring that the party alleging
 vexation and oppression is not left remediless. The Court must, in
 the exercise of its judicial conscience and upon a satisfaction of
 procedural abuse, extend its protective jurisdiction and prevent the
 continuation of proceedings that are clearly unjust, thereby
 upholding the rule of law and preserving the sanctity of
 adjudication. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 15. The position is, thus, clear that Section 9 of CPC confers jurisdiction
 on all Civil Courts to try all suits of a civil nature unless their cognizance is
 expressly or impliedly barred. Considering the desirability of maintaining
 consistency in the practices and procedures of international arbitration
 across jurisdictions, the concept of anti-arbitration injunction is not alien to
 other prominent jurisdictions. The jurisdiction of Indian Civil Courts is not
 excluded merely because arbitration is seated abroad, and Courts retain
 residual equitable powers to prevent abuse of arbitral process. Thus, in the
 case of World Sport Group (Mauritius) Limited Versus MSM Satellite
 (Singapore) PTE. Limited3, the Supreme Court held as follows: appellant that the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court could
 not have passed the order of injunction restraining the arbitration at
 Singapore, we may deal with each of these contentions separately and
 record our findings. While recording our findings, we will also deal
 with the submissions made by Mr Gopal Subramanium on behalf of
 respondent in reply to the contentions of Mr Venugopal. We will also
 consider the correctness of the findings of the Division Bench of the
 Bombay High Court separately. 22. We are unable to accept the first contention of Mr Venugopal
 that as Clause 9 of the Facilitation Deed provides that any party
 may seek equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction in
 Singapore, or such other court that may have jurisdiction over the
 parties, the Bombay High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the
 suit and restrain the arbitration proceedings at Singapore because
 of the principle of comity of courts. In Black's Law Dictionary, 5th
 Edn., Judicial Comity, has been explained in the following words: 23. In the present case no decision of a court of foreign country or
 no law of a foreign country has been cited on behalf of the
 appellant to contend that the courts in India out of deference to
 such decision of the foreign court or foreign law must not assume
 jurisdiction to restrain arbitration proceedings at Singapore. On the
 other hand, as has been rightly submitted by Mr Subramanium,
 under Section 9 CPC, the courts in India have jurisdiction to try all
 suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which cognizance is either
 expressly or impliedly barred. Thus, the appropriate civil court in
 India has jurisdiction to entertain the suit and pass appropriate
 orders in the suit by virtue of Section 9 CPC and Clause 9 of the
 Facilitation Deed providing that the courts in Singapore or any
 other court having jurisdiction over the parties can be approached
 for equitable relief could not oust the jurisdiction of the appropriate
 civil court conferred by Section 9 CPC. We find that in Para 64 of
 the plaint in Suit No. 1828 of 2010 filed before the Bombay High
 Court by the respondent, it is stated that the Facilitation Deed in
 which the arbitration clause is incorporated came to be executed by
 the defendant at Mumbai and the fraudulent inducement on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 28 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 part of the defendant resulting in the plaintiff entering into the
 Facilitation Deed took place in Mumbai and the rescission of the
 Facilitation Deed on the ground that it was induced by fraud of the
 defendant has also been issued from Mumbai. Thus, the cause of
 action for filing the suit arose within the jurisdiction of the Bombay
 High Court and the Bombay High Court had territorial jurisdiction
 to entertain the suit under Section 20 CPC. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 16. As regards territorial jurisdiction of this Court, Section 20(c) of CPC
 delineates on the said aspect, to include jurisdiction of a Court within the
 local limits of which cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. Section 20(c) of CPC reads as under: [Explanation].--A corporation shall be deemed to carry on business
 at its sole or principal office in India or, in respect of any cause of
 action arising at any place where it has also a subordinate office, at
 such place.‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 17. In the facts of the present case, plaintiffs are Indian companies based
 out of Delhi and their registered office is located in New Delhi. The
 Booking Note dated 04th April, 2023, which forms the basis of the arbitral
 proceedings in London, contains the stamp of plaintiff no. 2, which indicates
 the place as Delhi. 18. The Pre-Dispatch Inspection Report dated 07th March, 2023, issued by
 IAR Insurance Surveyor & Loss Assessors Private Limited in respect of the
 cargo to be transported, was prepared after inspection was carried out in
 Army Camp, Gate No. 4, Khanpur, New Delhi. The Report mentions that the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 29 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 voyage was to take place from New Delhi to Port Sudan. Thus, even though
 the actual voyage was to take place from Port Nhava Sheva, Mumbai to Port
 Sudan, the cargo to be transported was to be taken from Army Camp in New
 Delhi to Port Nhava Sheva in the first instance. It is also relevant to note that
 though the defendant was not a party to this Inspection Report, however, the
 Inspection Report was shared with the defendant, and the same was received
 by it on 03rd April, 2023. Receipt of the same is also admitted by the
 defendant in its „Claim Submissions‟ before the LMAA in the First
 Arbitration/Reference. 19. As per the pleadings and documents on record, the Fixture Recap and
 the Booking Note contain List of Equipment, Packing Lists and Pre-dispatch
 Inspection Reports, which all mention that the voyage was between New
 Delhi and Sudan. The contractual obligations, being the shipment of 159
 items of military equipment to the UNISFA originated from New Delhi. The
 entire negotiations, meetings and correspondence in relation to the aforesaid
 shipment was received and/or sent by the plaintiff no. 2 from New Delhi. 20. Further, the arbitral proceedings against which the plaintiffs seek
 injunctive and declaratory reliefs, were also commenced by the defendant by
 way of notice of arbitration dated 27th July, 2023 and subsequent notice of
 arbitration dated 06th December, 2024, both of which were received by the
 plaintiffs in New Delhi. 21. The payments in relation to the shipment/cargo were received by
 plaintiff no. 1 from the United Nations in New Delhi. In this regard, the
 plaintiffs had handed over a Tax Invoice relating to detention charges paid
 by the United Nations to the plaintiffs during the Court proceedings on 22nd
 January, 2026. It mentions the Delhi office of plaintiffs and bears the name Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 30 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 of plaintiff no. 1. 22. Thus, it is apparent that part of cause of action has arisen at New
 Delhi, i.e., within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 23. In the case of A.B.C. Laminart (P) Ltd. and Another Versus A.P.
 Agencies, Salem4, the Court discussed the connecting factors based upon
 which jurisdiction is said to arise under Section 20(c) of CPC. In the
 instance of breach of contract, the Court noted that cause of action consisted
 of making of the contract, and of its breach, so that the suit may be filed
 either at the place where the contract was made or at the place where it
 should have been performed, and the breach occurred. The making of the
 contract is part of the cause of action. A suit qua a contract, therefore, can be
 filed at the place where it was made. Thus, it was held as follows: of action consists of the making of the contract, and of its breach, so
 that the suit may be filed either at the place where the contract was
 made or at the place where it should have been performed and the
 breach occurred. The making of the contract is part of the cause of
 action. A suit on a contract, therefore, can be filed at the place
 where it was made. The determination of the place where the
 contract was made is part of the law of contract. But making of an
 offer on a particular place does not form cause of action in a suit for
 damages for breach of contract. Ordinarily, acceptance of an offer
 and its intimation result in a contract and hence a suit can be filed
 in a court within whose jurisdiction the acceptance was
 communicated. The performance of a contract is part of cause of
 action and a suit in respect of the breach can always be filed at the
 place where the contract should have been performed or its
 performance completed. If the contract is to be performed at the place
 where it is made, the suit on the contract is to be filed there and
 nowhere else. In suits for agency actions the cause of action arises at
 the place where the contract of agency was made or the place where
 actions are to be rendered and payment is to be made by the agent.
 Part of cause of action arises where money is expressly or impliedly
 payable under a contract. In cases of repudiation of a contract, the
 place where repudiation is received is the place where the suit would
 lie. If a contract is pleaded as part of the cause of action giving
 jurisdiction to the court where the suit is filed and that contract is
 found to be invalid, such part of cause of the action disappears. The
 above are some of the connecting factors. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 24. Likewise, in the case of Dqs Certification India Private Limited
 Versus Isaca Inc. and Others5, the Court held that cause of action is devoid
 of a precise definition and encompasses all material facts which require
 proof to substantiate the reliefs sought by the plaintiff. Thus, under Section
 20(c) of CPC, determination of cause of action would include consideration
 of factum of execution of contract, place of execution, place of business,
 scope of operation of contract and effect of its breach/determination. These
 would be some examples of the fundamental aspects of cause of action, 5 2025 SCC OnLine Del 1892. which would show the nexus with the territorial jurisdiction of a Court.
 Thus, it was held as follows: xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 25. With regard to territorial jurisdiction of this Court, another factor to
 be taken into consideration is that plaintiffs are amenable to the personal
 jurisdiction of the Courts at New Delhi. As noted hereinabove, the plaintiffs
 carry on their business at their registered office at New Delhi and the bank
 accounts and assets of the plaintiffs are also located in New Delhi. 26. In this regard, the case of Himachal Sorang Power Private Limited Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 33 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 and Another Versus NCC Infrastructure Holdings Limited6 may be
 referred to, wherein, this Court has held that in suits seeking anti-arbitration
 injunctions, jurisdiction lies with Courts to whose jurisdiction the plaintiff is
 personally amenable. Thus, it has been held as follows: arbitration complaint‖ (depending on the rules or procedure which
 govern the proceeding) as a preliminary issue. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 27. Another important factor to be considered by this Court is that any
 enforcement proceeding in relation to the impugned arbitration proceedings
 would ultimately have to be filed against the plaintiffs in New Delhi. It is to 6 2019 SCC OnLine Del 7575. be noted that during the course of arguments, the defendant has also clearly
 admitted that any potential enforcement proceedings emanating from a
 future award, would be filed at New Delhi. 28. Both the plaintiffs are headquartered in New Delhi, with assets
 located within the territorial bounds of this Court. Therefore, enforcement, if
 any, would necessarily be pursued in New Delhi, thus, giving this Court
 territorial jurisdiction. Dealing with a similar case of anti-arbitration
 injunction, holding that amenability of the foreign party to the jurisdiction of
 such Court may also be seen in the context of the foreign party coming on a
 later date to enforce the foreign decree or foreign award in this country, in
 the case of Devi Resources Limited Versus Ambo Exports Limited7, it was
 held as follows: Such amenability need not be seen or tested at the time of issuance of
 the injunction, but may also be seen from a different perspective. If
 such an injunction is sought against a foreign party by a party
 amenable to the jurisdiction of the court, the amenability of the
 foreign party to the jurisdiction of such court may also be seen in
 the context of the foreign party coming on a later date to enforce the
 foreign decree or foreign award in this country. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 29. The defendant, to assert its submission that this Court lacks the 7 2019 SCC OnLine Cal 7774. territorial jurisdiction to entertain the present suit, has relied upon the
 following judgments: 30. It is pertinent to note that the Court in the case of Golden Peakock
 was deciding an application under Order VII Rule 10 of the CPC , seeking
 return of the plaint on the ground that no cause of action had arisen in the
 territory of the Court. The Court therein allowed the application by holding
 that the entire facts pleaded and not mere happening of an inconsequential
 event would determine cause of action. It further held that there were no
 specific averments made in the plaint which could show that any transaction
 between the parties had been completed or even happened within the
 territory of the Court. However, the ratio in the case of Golden Peakock
 would not aid the defendant as the entire facts pleaded and specific
 averments made in the present case, as has been noted in the preceding
 paragraphs in detail, disclose that substantial and integral part of cause of
 action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court. 31. Further, even the judgment in the case of Vinod Kumar would not be
 applicable in the facts of the present case as the Court therein was deciding 8 2005 SCC OnLine Del 1035. 2006 SCC OnLine Del 1401. 2005 SCC OnLine Del 1041. the question of maintainability and cause of action while adjudicating writ
 petitions. In the facts of the said case, the Court had come to the conclusion
 that no cause of action or part thereof had arisen within the territorial
 jurisdiction of the Court. However, the same is not the position in the
 present case, in view of the discussion hereinabove. 32. The judgment in Capital Fire Engineers is also clearly
 distinguishable as the Court therein was dealing with the issue of
 maintainability of an arbitration petition under Section 11 of the Arbitration
 Act. The Court noted that the agreement between the parties was executed at
 Patiala, Punjab, the work was required to be performed at Patiala and
 payments were also made at Patiala, whereas, only a document was
 addressed to the petitioner‟s office in New Delhi and thus, the Court at New
 Delhi was held not to have jurisdiction. Per contra, in the case at hand, in
 view of the plaintiffs being amenable to personal jurisdiction of this Court in
 an anti-arbitration suit, the arbitration award, if any, being enforceable in
 this Court and other facts and circumstances discussed hereinabove, it is
 clear that this Court has territorial jurisdiction in the present case. 33. In the light of the aforenoted facts and the position of law, it cannot be
 said that this Court does not have territorial jurisdiction to entertain the
 present case. It is apparent that fundamental as well as substantial aspects of
 cause of action have arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court,
 and thus, this Court shall have the jurisdiction to entertain and adjudicate the
 present suit under Section 20(c) of CPC. Whether there is a binding contract between the parties? 34. This brings us to the next issue as to whether there is valid contract
 between the plaintiffs and the defendant. 35. The plaintiffs have raised the contention that there is no privity of
 contract between the defendant and the plaintiffs and that the defendant is a
 complete stranger to the Booking Note dated 04th April, 2023. 36. This Court notes that the present case pertains to a shipping contract,
 wherein, parties enter into contracts through agents and brokers. In the
 present case, Pirama National Shipping Services LLC was the common
 broker to the plaintiffs and the defendant, while Ocean7 Projects ApS was
 the agent of the owners of various vessels. It is the agent who decides which
 vessel of which owner is available to undertake the journey of shipment of
 cargo. In contracts related to shipping, the contracts are discussed and
 finalized through the broker, who is common to the parties and the agent of
 the vessels belonging to various carriers, which the agent represents. Thus, it
 is the agents who represent and contract on behalf of the owners of the
 vessels, which they represent. 37. The Booking Note dated 04th April, 2023 clearly records that the
 "carrier" was Ocean7 Projects ApS - as agents to the owners. This means
 that the Ocean7 Projects ApS signed the contract, i.e., the Booking Note, not
 on their behalf, but as agent of the owner of the vessel. Clause 20 of the
 Booking Note clearly stipulates that the vessel, as named in the Booking
 Note can be substituted. Clause 20 of the Booking Note, which contains the
 contracting terms, reads as under: 38. The Booking Note refers to the vessel as MV Pelagica or Sub,
 meaning thereby, that the vessel could be either MV Pelagica or its
 substitute, in terms of the contractual terms as encapsulated in the Booking
 Note. 39. In the present case, the common broker of the plaintiffs and
 defendant, i.e., Pirama National Shipping Services LLC, sent an Email dated
 04th April, 2023 to the agent, Ocean7 Projects ApS, who were acting as
 agents for the owners of the vessel „MV Pelagica or Sub‟, informing them
 that the charterer/SARR Freights had agreed to Fixture Recap set out in that
 Email, with very minor changes. The said Email/Fixture Recap dated 04th
 April, 2023, reads as under: 40. Perusal of the aforesaid Email clearly shows that the parties were
 cognizant about the identification of the vessel MV Panthera J during the
 course of discussion of the terms of the contract. However, since the name
 of the vessel MV Pelagica had been given to the United Nations already, it
 was decided that the Booking Note would refer to the name MV Pelagica or
 Substitute. 41. Thereafter, on the same day, i.e., 04th April, 2023, the agent replied to
 the broker vide Email, confirming that they will reflect „MV Pelagica or
 Sub‟ in the Booking Note. 42. Subsequent to the aforesaid Fixture Recap, the Booking Note dated
 04th April, 2023 was issued evidencing the voyage charterparty as agreed
 under the Fixture Note between the owners of „MV Pelagica or Sub‟ and
 SARR Freights/plaintiffs. The Booking Note describes the various
 contracting parties as follows: 43. The defendant, as owner, provided the vessel MV Panthera J as Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 41 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 substitute to MV Pelagica to perform the voyage agreed under the Booking
 Note. As is evident from the Fixture Recap, the parties knew and understood
 beforehand that MV Panthera J would be the performing vessel under the
 Booking Note, and not MV Pelagica. Pertinently, while it was agreed in the
 Fixture Recap that the Booking Note will mention „MV Pelagica or Sub‟,
 the pre-stowage plan of MV Panthera J was provided to SARR
 Freights/plaintiffs. 44. Thereafter, under the Fixture Recap and in accordance with the
 Booking Note, the defendant, through the agents, provided daily updates of
 MV Panthera J‟s location and estimated time of arrival at Nhava Sheva,
 Mumbai. The various Emails sent by the defendant to the agents informing
 about MV Panthera J‟s estimated time of arrival, have been placed before
 this Court. 45. Accordingly, considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, this
 Court is of the considered prima facie view that there existed a valid
 contract between the plaintiffs and the defendant. Therefore, the contention
 of the plaintiffs that there is no privity of contract between the defendant and
 the plaintiffs, and that the defendant is a complete stranger to the Booking
 Note, cannot be accepted. The terms of the contract in the Booking Note
 intended that the "Carrier" would be the owner of the performing vessel,
 which is the defendant in the present case. 46. The contention of the plaintiffs that the vessel could be substituted
 only with another compliant vessel of equivalent capacity and capability,
 would be subject matter of disputes on merits, which shall be considered in
 proceedings dealing with the merits of the dispute between the parties.
 However, for the purposes of adjudicating the issues as raised in the present Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 42 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 proceedings, this Court is of the prima facie opinion that there exists a valid
 contract between the plaintiffs and the defendant.
 Whether there exists a valid Arbitration Clause between the parties? 47. Accordingly, having noted that firstly, this Court has jurisdiction to
 entertain the present suit and secondly, that prima facie there exists a valid
 contract between the parties, the next issue to be considered by this Court is
 whether the contract between the parties contains an arbitration clause. 48. As per the case put forth by the plaintiffs, the parties never contracted
 to London as the seat of arbitration. The parties had only agreed to pages 1
 and 2 of the Booking Note and Additional Rider Clauses 20-41 of the
 Booking Note, which did not contain any arbitration clause. 49. As per the plaintiffs, the Booking Note, which was entered between
 the parties on 04th April, 2023, contained the Special Terms agreed upon by
 the parties on the first page itself, wherein, the words ―As per additional
 rider clause 20-41 in attached‖ is mentioned. Since the same did not
 mention Clause 43, i.e., the Law and Arbitration Clause, objection has been
 raised by the plaintiffs that the Booking Note did not contain any arbitration
 clause. 50. In this regard, at the first instance, this Court would look at the
 intention of the parties to decide the question regarding existence of an
 arbitration clause. For gathering said intention of the parties, the Court shall
 not only look at the Booking Note, but also consider the prior
 communications between the parties, including, the Fixture Recap. 51. In this regard, reference is made to the judgment in the case of Govind
 Rubber Limited Versus Louis Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 43 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 Limited11, wherein, the Supreme Court has held that an agreement, even if
 not signed by the parties, can be spelt out from correspondence exchanged
 between the parties. While construing an arbitration agreement or arbitration
 clause, the Courts have to adopt a pragmatic and not a technical approach.
 An arbitration agreement can be culled out from an exchange of letters,
 telegrams or other means of communication, which provide a record of the
 agreement. If it can be prima facie shown that the parties are ad idem, then
 the mere fact that one party disputes the same, cannot absolve such party
 from the liability under the agreement. Thus, in the aforesaid case, Supreme
 Court held as follows: 560, para 6)
 ―6. Arbitration agreement is not required to be in any
 particular form. What is required to be ascertained is whether
 the parties have agreed that if disputes arise between them in
 respect of the subject-matter of contract such dispute shall be
 referred to arbitration, then such an arrangement would spell
 out an arbitration agreement.‖ 14. So far as the first contention made by the learned counsel for the
 appellant that since the appellant did not sign the agreement, it cannot 11 (2015) 13 SCC 477. be said to be a party to the agreement, we would like to refer Section 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, which reads as under: 15. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions would show that in order to
 constitute an arbitration agreement, it need not be signed by all the
 parties. Section 7(3) of the Act provides that the arbitration agreement
 shall be in writing, which is a mandatory requirement. Section 7(4) states that the arbitration agreement shall be in writing, if it is a
 document signed by all the parties. But a perusal of clauses (b) and (c) of Section 7(4) would show that a written document which may not
 be signed by the parties even then it can be arbitration agreement. Section 7(4)(b) provides that an arbitration agreement can be culled
 out from an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of
 telecommunication which provide a record of the agreement. 16. On reading the provisions it can safely be concluded that an
 arbitration agreement even though in writing need not be signed by
 the parties if the record of agreement is provided by exchange of
 letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication. Section 7(4)(c) provides that there can be an arbitration agreement in
 the exchange of statements of claims and defence in which the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 45 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by
 the other. If it can be prima facie shown that the parties are at ad
 idem, then the mere fact of one party not signing the agreement
 cannot absolve him from the liability under the agreement. In the
 present day of e-commerce, in cases of internet purchases, tele
 purchases, ticket booking on internet and in standard forms of
 contract, terms and conditions are agreed upon. In such agreements,
 if the identity of the parties is established, and there is a record of
 agreement it becomes an arbitration agreement if there is an
 arbitration clause showing ad idem between the parties. Therefore,
 signature is not a formal requirement under Section 7(4)(b) or 7(4)(c)
 or under Section 7(5) of the Act. xxx xxx xxx 23. It is clear that for construing an arbitration agreement, the
 intention of the parties must be looked into. The materials on record
 which have been discussed hereinabove make it very clear that the
 appellant was prima facie acting pursuant to the sale contract issued
 by the respondent. So, it is not very material whether it was signed by
 the second respondent or not. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 52. In the case at hand, by way of the Email dated 04th April, 2023, the
 broker of the plaintiffs communicated the Fixture Recap with their relevant
 changes, the terms of which were to be incorporated in the Booking Note.
 The changes made were accepted by an Email of the same date by the agents
 of the Carrier (defendant), confirming the changes and providing
 confirmation for incorporation of the same in the Booking Note. 53. In the said Email sent by the broker of the plaintiffs, as reproduced
 hereinabove, the changes to the Fixture Recap were made in "Yellow"
 highlight, and there was no change/suggestion/alteration with respect to the
 clause dealing with Arbitration, i.e., Clause 23 of the Fixture Recap, which
 states that the Arbitration shall be conducted as per ―English law and
 London arbitration‖. It is to be noted that the plaintiffs indicated several Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 46 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 other changes in the terms of the Fixture Recap, however, despite having the
 opportunity to change or even oust the said Arbitration Clause, the plaintiffs
 did not put forth any comment or request for its alteration/removal. Thus,
 the aforesaid conduct is a clear pointer to the intention of the parties
 regarding inclusion of the Arbitration Clause. 54. Furthermore, in the Email dated 04th April, 2023 sent at 12:35:31 PM,
 wherein changes to Fixture Recap were made, there is a specific line added
 by the broker of the plaintiffs, which reads as follows: 55. Thus, as the document (Fixture Recap) is a summary of negotiations
 and the final agreed upon essential terms between the parties, the intent of
 the parties is evidently discernable therefrom, i.e., to be governed by the
 Arbitration Clause between the parties, which prescribes English Law and
 arbitration in London. It is apparent that the Fixture Recap between the
 parties contains an arbitration agreement, which is binding upon the parties. 56. Post mutual agreement and finalization of the terms of Fixture Recap,
 the Booking Note dated 04th April, 2023 was entered into by the parties,
 which, based upon the aforesaid undisputed Clause 23 in the Fixture Recap,
 incorporates an Arbitration Clause as Clause 43, in the following manner: 57. In the case of Trimex International FZE Limited, Dubai Versus Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 47 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 Vedanta Aluminium Limited, India12, the Supreme Court considered the
 correspondence exchanged between the parties containing the conditions
 prescribed and held that it was clear that the intention of the parties was to
 arbitrate any dispute which arose. On the basis of the correspondence
 between the parties, the Supreme Court considered the intention of the
 parties to conclude that the parties in the said case were ad idem as far as
 adopting arbitration as a method of dispute resolution was concerned. The
 Supreme Court also took note of the fact that charter party agreements are
 governed as per international shipping practices, wherein, the normal
 procedure is that the brokers from both sides first agree on the vital terms
 through correspondence. Thus, the Supreme Court in the aforesaid case held
 as follows: (3) quantity, (4) price per tonne, (5) delivery terms (CIF), (6) payment
 terms (irrevocable letter of credit), (7) shipment lots, (8) discharge
 port, (9) discharge rate with international shipping acronyms, (10)
 demurrage rate, (11) period of shipment, (12) vessel details, (13) draft
 (port/berth capacity corresponding to height of cargo), (14)
 stipulations as to survey by independent surveyors, (15) quality
 benchmark, (16) bonus/penalty rates, and (17) applicable laws
 (Indian law) and arbitration. 47. The minute to minute correspondence exchanged between the
 parties, all the conditions prescribed which had been laid down,
 awareness of urgency of accepting the offer without any further delay
 to avoid variation in the freight or other factors, coupled with the e-
 mail sent on 16-10-2007 at 3.06 p.m. under the subject ―re : offer for
 imported bauxite‖ stated in unequivocal terms i.e. ―we confirm the
 deal for five shipments‖, would clearly go to show that after
 understanding all the details and the confirmation by the respondent,
 the petitioner sent a reply stating that ―thanks for the confirmation,
 just in time to go to the shipowners‖. All the above details clearly
 establish that both the parties were aware of various conditions and
 understood the terms and finally the charter party was entered into a
 contract by the parties on 17-10-2007. xxx xxx xxx 49. In the light of the details which have been extracted in the
 earlier paragraphs, I am unable to accept the stand of the
 respondent. It is clear that if the intention of the parties was to
 arbitrate any dispute which arose in relation to the offer of 15-10-
 2007 and the acceptance of 16-10-2007, the dispute is to be settled
 through arbitration. Once the contract is concluded orally or in
 writing, the mere fact that a formal contract has to be prepared and
 initialled by the parties would not affect either the acceptance of the
 contract so entered into or implementation thereof, even if the formal
 contract has never been initialled. xxx xxx xxx 56. Mr Venugopal pointed out that the charter party agreements are
 governed as per international shipping practices. The normal
 procedure is that the brokers from both sides first agree on the vital
 terms over phone/telex [these terms relate to freight, type of ship, lay
 can (period of shipping), demurrage rate, cranes, etc.] At this stage,
 no agreement is formally signed but the terms are binding on both
 the parties, as per the contract of affreightment (CoA), which in the
 present case was entered into on the next day i.e. 17-10-2007.
 Certain minor modifications could go on from either side on mutual Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 49 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 agreement but in the absence of any further modification, the
 originally agreed terms of CoA are binding on both the parties. Till
 the agreement is actually signed by both the parties, the term "draft"
 is used. This does not mean that the terms are not binding as
 between the petitioner and the shipowners. Further, according to
 him, the existence of the charter party, various international
 shipping practices, etc. which are to be pleaded in detail before the
 Arbitral Tribunal once it is constituted and not before this Court
 since this means extensive quoting of shipping laws and decided
 cases which cannot be done in the present arbitration petition. The
 above submissions cannot be underestimated. 57. Both in the counter-affidavit as well as at the time of arguments
 Mr C.A. Sundaram, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent has
 pointed out various differences between the version of the respondent
 and the petitioner. However, a close scrutiny of the same shows that
 there were only minor differences that would not affect the intention
 of the parties. It is essential that the intention of the parties be
 considered in order to conclude whether the parties were ad idem as
 far as adopting arbitration as a method of dispute resolution was
 concerned. In those circumstances, the stand of the respondent that
 in the absence of signed contract, the arbitration clause cannot be
 relied upon is liable to be rejected. xxx xxx xxx 60. It is clear that in the absence of signed agreement between the
 parties, it would be possible to infer from various documents duly
 approved and signed by the parties in the form of exchange of e-
 mails, letter, telex, telegrams and other means of
 telecommunication. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 58. Likewise, holding that conduct of the parties clearly manifested
 acceptance of the terms and conditions of the contract, including, the
 arbitration clause, Supreme Court in the case of Glencore International AG
 Versus Shree Ganesh Metals and Another13, held as follows: admitted facts that demonstrated, in no uncertain terms, that the
 parties duly accepted and acted upon Contract No. 061-16-12115-S
 dated 11.03.2016. There is no denying the legal proposition that an
 arbitration agreement can be inferred even from an exchange of
 letters, including communication through electronic means, which
 provide a record of the agreement. The mere fact that Contract No.
 061-16-12115-S was not signed by respondent No. 1 would not
 obviate from this principle when the conduct of the parties in
 furtherance of the said contract, clearly manifested respondent No.
 1's acceptance of the terms and conditions contained therein, which
 would include the arbitration agreement in clause 32.2 thereof.
 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 59. Apart from Clause 43, i.e., the Arbitration Clause, there is only one
 dispute resolution clause, i.e., Clause 4 - Law and Jurisdiction, contained in
 the Booking Note. However, the same is only for disputes in relation to the
 „Bill of Lading‟. Further, the Booking Note states that pages 1 and 2 thereto
 shall prevail over any previous arrangements, and that the Booking Note
 shall in turn be superseded by the terms of Bill of Lading. However, in the
 present case, the Bill of Lading never came into effect, as the goods were
 never loaded on the carrier, and the Bill of Lading would have come into
 effect only thereafter. 60. In the present case, there is a clear indication that the parties intended
 for arbitration to be the dispute resolution mechanism. There is an indication
 of exclusivity shown by the words used in Clause 43, i.e., the Arbitration
 Clause, wherein, BIMCO (Baltic and International Maritime Council)
 Dispute Resolution Clause has been specifically added. The BIMCO
 Dispute Resolution Clause, with stipulation that the same was subject to
 English Law and LMAA Terms and Procedures, along with the plain
 language of the Arbitration Clause as per Fixture Recap, manifests that the
 parties specifically intended to have their disputes resolved by way of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 51 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 arbitration in London, under the aegis of LMAA. 61. In view of the aforesaid discussion, this Court is of the prima facie
 view that the reference to ―As per additional rider clause 20-41 in
 attached‖ in the Booking Note is an inadvertent error and an oversight. It is
 to be noted that this oversight persisted even in the blank standard
 form/booking note of the agent as well. The said blank standard
 form/booking note of the agent, i.e., Ocean7 Projects ApS, is extracted
 hereunder: 62. It is also to be noted that the page of the Booking Note containing
 Clauses 42 and 43 was duly signed and stamped by both the parties. The
 omission to mention and incorporate Clauses 42 and 43 in the Special
 Terms, which governed the parties under the Booking Note, is clearly a
 lapse, though said Clauses 42 and 43 containing the Arbitration Clause
 clearly form part of the Booking Note and as noted, the pages containing the
 said clauses, have been duly signed by both the parties. For convenience of
 reference, the said page of the Booking Note is reproduced as under: 63. Further, the use of the phrase ―prevail over‖ in the Booking Note
 indicates an intention that the Booking Note terms should override any
 inconsistent prior arrangement. However, the Arbitration Clause contained
 in the Fixture Recap, cannot be said to be inconsistent with Clause 43 of the
 Booking Note. On the contrary, the Arbitration Clause in the Fixture Recap
 is consistent with the terms of the Booking Note. 64. In the second instance, the aspect of commercial sense of entering into
 a contract has to be looked at. In other words, it would be of material
 consideration whether parties would enter into a commercial contract
 without there being any dispute resolution mechanism. 65. If the contention of the plaintiffs that Clause 43 had been deliberately
 excluded from the Booking Note is accepted by this Court, it would give rise
 to a situation wherein an international commercial contract, such as the
 Booking Note in the present case, would be operating without any dispute
 resolution clause. The same fails to withstand scrutiny, especially, when
 such a contract governs and obligates multiple stages and steps of execution
 of the terms therein. In the considered view of this Court, it does not make
 commercial sense that in a commercial contract, parties would not envisage
 any dispute resolution mechanism. 66. The Clause 23 of Fixture Recap expressly provides for English Law
 and London Arbitration. Further, it is to be noted that Clause 43 of the
 Booking Note elaborates the Arbitration Agreement already reflected in the
 Fixture Recap. It is pertinent to note that negotiations had taken place
 between the parties on 04th April, 2023 through a recap exchange and both
 the Fixture Recap and Booking Note were executed on 04th April, 2023.
 Fixture Recap is a document which in terms of shipping is a concise written Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 54 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 summary of the agreed upon terms between the ship owner (defendant) and
 the charterer (plaintiffs). The same comes from the word „recapitulation‟,
 which means a summary of the main points of a discussion. 67. In the present case, the parties discussed the terms on 04 th April, 2023
 and on the same date materialized the Fixture Recap, and communicated the
 same over Email between the broker of the plaintiffs, i.e., Pirama National
 Shipping Service LLC and the agent of the ship owner, i.e., Ocean7 Projects
 ApS. Thus, both documents are of the same date, rendering it commercially
 implausible that the parties intended to abandon arbitration without any
 discussion, and not include Clause 43 in the terms governing the provisions
 of the Booking Note, which contained the Arbitration Clause. 68. Further, there is no document before this Court to evidence that the
 parties intended to change what had been agreed in the Fixture Recap or that
 the parties intended to dispense with the agreement to arbitrate. 69. Therefore, considering the documents before this Court, this Court is
 of the prima facie view that there exists a valid, enforceable and operative
 Arbitration Agreement between the parties, and the disputes between the
 parties ought to be resolved through the arbitration process, in terms of the
 agreement between the parties. 70. Delving on the aspects of interpretation of commercial contract inter
 se the parties, and holding that the Courts imply a term in a contract in order
 to give business efficacy to the transaction, when it is obvious that both
 parties must have intended it, the Supreme Court in the case of Nabha
 Power Limited (NPL) Versus Punjab State Power Corporation Limited Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 55 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 (PSPCL) and Another14, held as follows: (Ramsbottom) Ltd. [Reigate v. Union Mfg. Co. (Ramsbottom)
 Ltd., (1918) 1 KB 592 (CA)], KB p. 605.] Or when it is obvious
 that both parties must have intended it: so obvious indeed that
 if an officious bystander had asked them whether there was to
 be such a term, both would have suppressed it testily: "Yes, of
 course" [see Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries (1926)
 Ltd. [Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries (1926) Ltd., (1939) 2 KB
 206: (1939) 2 All ER 113 (CA)], KB p. 227]. ............. 40. .............. I have respectfully to say that I prefer the views of the majority in the
 Court of Appeal. Bowen, L.J. said in the well-known passage in The
 Moorcock [The Moorcock, (1889) LR 14 PD 64 (CA)] : (PD p. 68)
 „... In business transactions such as this, what the law desires
 to effect by the implication is to give such business efficacy to
 the transaction as must have been intended at all events by
 both parties who are business men ... to make each party
 promise in law as much, at all events, as it must have been in
 the contemplation of both parties that he should be responsible
 for....‟
 That is not to say, of course, that consideration of what is reasonable
 plays no part in determining whether or not a term should be implied.
 Thus, in Hamlyn & Co. v. Wood & Co. [Hamlyn & Co. v. Wood &
 Co., (1891) 2 QB 488 (CA)], decided only two years after The
 Moorcock [The Moorcock, (1889) LR 14 PD 64 (CA)] (to which he
 had been a party), Lord Esher, M.R. said, at QB p. 491: suggested stipulation should exist. It is not enough to say that
 it would be a reasonable thing to make such an implication. It
 must be a necessary implication in the sense that I have
 mentioned.‟
 .............. xxx xxx xxx 43. A parallel development in Australia arose out of a judgment of the
 Lords of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the appeal
 preferred from the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Victoria in B.P.
 Refinery (Westernport) Proprietary Ltd. v. Shire of Hastings [B.P.
 Refinery (Westernport) Proprietary Ltd. v. Shire of Hastings, 1977
 UKPC 13: (1977) 180 CLR 266 (Aus)]. On the implication of the
 terms of contraction five conditions were laid down and a reference
 was, once again, made to The Moorcock [The Moorcock, (1889) LR
 14 PD 64 (CA)] , Reigate v. Union Mfg. Co. (Ramsbottom) Ltd.
 [Reigate v. Union Mfg. Co. (Ramsbottom) Ltd., (1918) 1 KB 592
 (CA)] and Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries (1926) Ltd. [Shirlaw v.
 Southern Foundries (1926) Ltd., (1939) 2 KB 206 : (1939) 2 All ER
 113 (CA)] in the following terms: In Reigate v. Union Mfg. Co. (Ramsbottom) Ltd. [Reigate v. Union
 Mfg. Co. (Ramsbottom) Ltd., (1918) 1 KB 592 (CA)], Scrutton, L.J.
 said: (KB p. 605)
 ‗... A term can only be implied if it is necessary in the business
 sense to give efficacy to the contract i.e. if it is such a term that
 it can confidently be said that if at the time the contract was
 being negotiated someone had said to the parties, "What will
 happen in such a case?", they would both have replied: "Of
 course, so and so will happen; we did not trouble to say that; it
 is too clear".‟
 In Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries (1926) Ltd. [Shirlaw v. Southern
 Foundries (1926) Ltd., (1939) 2 KB 206: (1939) 2 All ER 113 (CA)],
 MacKinnon, L.J. said: (KB p. 227)
 ―... ‗Prima facie that which in any contract is left to be implied
 and need not be expressed is something so obvious that it goes
 without saying; so that, if, while the parties were making their
 bargain, an officious bystander were to suggest some express
 provision for it in their agreement, they would testily suppress
 him with a common, "Oh, of course!‖ ' ‖
 (emphasis supplied) 44. The next development was in Investors Compensation Scheme Ltd.
 v. West Bromwich Building Society [Investors Compensation Scheme
 Ltd. v. West Bromwich Building Society, (1998) 1 WLR 896 : (1998) 1
 All ER 98 (HL)] . Lord Hoffmann, in his majority opinion, prefaced
 his explanation of reasons with some general remarks about the
 principles which contractual documents are nowadays construed--
 common sense principles by which any serious utterance would be
 interpreted in ordinary life. Almost all the old intellectual baggage of
 ―legal‖ interpretation was observed to have been discarded, and the
 principles summarised as follows: (WLR pp. 912 H-913 F)
 ―(1) Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which
 the document would convey to a reasonable person having all
 the background knowledge which would reasonably have been
 available to the parties in the situation in which they were at the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 58 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 time of the contract. (2) The background was famously referred to by Lord
 Wilberforce as the ―matrix of fact‖, but this phrase is, if
 anything, an understated description of what the background
 may include. Subject to the requirement that it should have been
 reasonably available to the parties and to the exception to be
 mentioned next, it includes absolutely anything which would
 have affected the way in which the language of the document
 would have been understood by a reasonable man. (3) The law excludes from the admissible background the
 previous negotiations of the parties and their declarations of
 subjective intent. They are admissible only in an action for
 rectification. The law makes this distinction for reasons of
 practical policy and, in this respect only, legal interpretation
 differs from the way we would interpret utterances in ordinary
 life. The boundaries of this exception are in some respects
 unclear. But this is not the occasion on which to explore them.
 (4) The meaning which a document (or any other utterance)
 would convey to a reasonable man is not the same thing as the
 meaning of its words. The meaning of words is a matter of
 dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is
 what the parties using those words against the relevant
 background would reasonably have been understood to mean.
 The background may not merely enable the reasonable man to
 choose between the possible meanings of words which are
 ambiguous but even (as occasionally happens in ordinary life)
 to conclude that the parties must, for whatever reason, have
 used the wrong words or syntax: see Mannai Investments Co.
 Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd. [Mannai Investments
 Co. Ltd. v. Eagle Star Life Assurance Co. Ltd., 1997 AC 749 : 45. Once again, Lord Hoffmann, now sitting on the Privy Council, in
 Attorney General of Belize v. Belize Telecom Ltd. [Attorney General
 of Belize v. Belize Telecom Ltd., (2009) 1 WLR 1988 (PC)] , dealt with
 the implied terms of the contract in the context of the articles of
 association of a company. It has been observed as under: (WLR pp.
 1993-95, paras 16-27)
 ―..... .... ..... 17. The question of implication arises when the instrument does
 not expressly provide for what is to happen when some event
 occurs. The most usual inference in such a case is that nothing
 is to happen. If the parties had intended something to happen,
 the instrument would have said so. Otherwise, the express
 provisions of the instrument are to continue to operate
 undisturbed. If the event has caused loss to one or other of the
 parties, the loss lies where it falls. 18. In some cases, however, the reasonable addressee would
 understand the instrument to mean something else. He would
 consider that the only meaning consistent with the other
 provisions of the instrument, read against the relevant
 background, is that something is to happen. The event in
 question is to affect the rights of the parties. The instrument
 may not have expressly said so, but this is what it must mean.
 In such a case, it is said that the court implies a term as to
 what will happen if the event in question occurs. But the
 implication of the term is not an addition to the instrument. It
 only spells out what the instrument means. 19. The proposition that the implication of a term is an exercise
 in the construction of the instrument as a whole is not only a
 matter of logic (since a court has no power to alter what the
 instrument means) but also well supported by authority. In Trollope and Colls Ltd. v. North West Metropolitan Regl . Hospital Board [Trollope and Colls Ltd. v. North West
 Metropolitan Regl. Hospital Board, (1973) 1 WLR 601 : (1973)
 2 All ER 260 (HL)] , Lord Pearson, with whom Lord Guest and
 Lord Diplock agreed, said: (WLR p. 609 B-D)
 ‗... the court does not make a contract for the parties. The
 court will not even improve the contract which the parties have
 made for themselves, however desirable the improvement Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 60 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 might be. The court's function is to interpret and apply the
 contract which the parties have made for themselves. If the
 express terms are perfectly clear and free from ambiguity,
 there is no choice to be made between different possible
 meanings: the clear terms must be applied even if the court
 thinks some other terms would have been more suitable. An
 unexpressed term can be implied if and only if the court finds
 that the parties must have intended that term to form part of
 their contract: it is not enough for the court to find that such a
 term would have been adopted by the parties as reasonable
 men if it had been suggested to them: it must have been a term
 that went without saying, a term necessary to give business
 efficacy to the contract, a term which, though tacit, formed
 part of the contract which the parties made for themselves.'
 (emphasis in original)
 ....... .... ... 22. There are dangers in treating these alternative formulations
 of the question as if they had a life of their own. Take, for
 example, the question of whether the implied term is ―necessary
 to give business efficacy‖ to the contract. That formulation
 serves to underline two important points. The first, conveyed by
 the use of the word ―business‖, is that in considering what the
 instrument would have meant to a reasonable person who had
 knowledge of the relevant background, one assumes the notional
 reader will take into account the practical consequences of
 deciding that it means one thing or the other. In the case of an
 instrument such as a commercial contract, he will consider
 whether a different construction would frustrate the apparent
 business purpose of the parties. That was the basis upon which
 Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Hyman [Equitable Life
 Assurance Society v. Hyman, (2002) 1 AC 408 : (2000) 3 WLR
 529 (HL)] was decided. The second, conveyed by the use of the
 word "necessary", is that it is not enough for a court to
 consider that the implied term expresses what it would have
 been reasonable for the parties to agree to. It must be satisfied
 that it is what the contract actually means. ................. 46. There were, once again, parallel developments in India during this
 period in various High Courts but the views of this Court can be found
 expression in Dhanrajamal Gobindram v. Shamji Kalidas and Co.
 [Dhanrajamal Gobindram v. Shamji Kalidas and Co. , (1961) 3 SCR
 1020 : AIR 1961 SC 1285] : (AIR pp. 1291-92, para 19) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 61 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 ―19. ... Commercial documents are sometimes expressed in
 language which does not, on its face, bear a clear meaning.
 The effort of courts is to give a meaning, if possible. This was laid down by the House of Lords in Hillas & Co. v. Arcos Ltd.
 [Hillas & Co. v. Arcos Ltd., 1932 All ER Rep 494 (HL)], and the
 observations of Lord Wright have become classic, and have
 been quoted with approval both by the Judicial Committee and
 the House of Lords ever since. The latest case of the House of
 Lords is Adamastos Shipping Co. Ltd. v. Anglo-Saxon Petroleum
 Co. Ltd. [Adamastos Shipping Co. Ltd. v. Anglo-Saxon
 Petroleum Co. Ltd., 1959 AC 133 : (1958) 2 WLR 688 (HL)]
 There, the clause was ―This bill of lading‖, whereas the
 document to which it referred was a charter-party. Viscount
 Simonds summarised at AC p. 158 all the rules applicable to
 construction of commercial documents, and laid down that
 effort should always be made to construe commercial
 agreements broadly and one must not be astute to find defects
 in them, or reject them as meaningless.‖ 47. In Union of India v. D.N. Revri & Co. [Union of India v. D.N.
 Revri & Co., (1976) 4 SCC 147], P.N. Bhagwati, J. (as he then was),
 speaking for the Bench of two Judges said in para 7 as under: (SCC p. 151)
 ―7. It must be remembered that a contract is a commercial
 document between the parties and it must be interpreted in
 such a manner as to give efficacy to the contract rather than to
 invalidate it. It would not be right while interpreting a
 contract, entered into between two lay parties, to apply strict
 rules of construction which are ordinarily applicable to a
 conveyance and other formal documents. The meaning of such
 a contract must be gathered by adopting a common sense
 approach and it must not be allowed to be thwarted by a
 narrow, pedantic and legalistic interpretation. ...‖ 48. Lastly, in Satya Jain v. Anis Ahmed Rushdie [Satya Jain v. Anis
 Ahmed Rushdie, (2013) 8 SCC 131: (2013) 3 SCC (Civ) 738], Ranjan
 Gogoi, J., elucidated the well-established principles of the classic test
 of business efficacy to achieve the result of consequences intended
 by the parties acting as prudent businessmen. It was opined as
 under: (SCC pp. 143-44, paras 33-35)
 ―33. The principle of business efficacy is normally invoked to
 read a term in an agreement or contract so as to achieve the
 result or the consequence intended by the parties acting as
 prudent businessmen. Business efficacy means the power to
 produce intended results. The classic test of business efficacy Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 62 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 was proposed by Bowen, L.J. in The Moorcock [The
 Moorcock, (1889) LR 14 PD 64 (CA)]. This test requires that a
 term can only be implied if it is necessary to give business
 efficacy to the contract to avoid such a failure of consideration
 that the parties cannot as reasonable businessmen have
 intended. But only the most limited term should then be
 implied--the bare minimum to achieve this goal. If the
 contract makes business sense without the term, the courts will
 not imply the same. The following passage from the opinion of
 Bowen, L.J. in The Moorcock [The Moorcock, (1889) LR 14 PD
 64 (CA)] sums up the position: (PD p. 68)

 ‗... In business transactions such as this, what the law
 desires to effect by the implication is to give such
 business efficacy to the transaction as must have been
 intended at all events by both parties who are
 businessmen; not to impose on one side all the perils
 of the transaction, or to emancipate one side from all
 the chances of failure, but to make each party promise
 in law as much, at all events, as it must have been in
 the contemplation of both parties that he should be
 responsible for in respect of those perils or chances.'
 .............. 35. The business efficacy test, therefore, should be applied
 only in cases where the term that is sought to be read as
 implied is such which could have been clearly intended by
 the parties at the time of making of the agreement. ...‖

 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 71. The position of law is also clear to the effect that it has always been
 the intent of the Courts to validate an arbitration agreement, rather than to
 invalidate it. In the present case, keeping in mind the communications
 between the parties and the documents on record, it becomes apparent that
 the Arbitration Clause, even as a general standard, was agreed upon by the
 parties, and there exists a valid Arbitration Clause in the agreement between
 the parties. 72. In this regard, reference is made to the judgment in the case of Govind
 Rubber Limited Versus Louis Dreyfus Commodities Asia Private
 Limited15, wherein, Supreme Court held that a commercial document having
 an arbitration clause has to be interpreted in such a manner as to give effect
 to the agreement rather than invalidate it. The agreement has to be
 interpreted in order to effectuate the immediate intention of the parties.
 Thus, it was held as follows: invalidate it. It would not be right while interpreting a
 contract, entered into between two lay parties, to apply strict
 rules of construction which are ordinarily applicable to a
 conveyance and other formal documents. The meaning of such
 a contract must be gathered by adopting a common sense
 approach and it must not be allowed to be thwarted by a
 narrow, pedantic and legalistic interpretation.‖
 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 73. Likewise, in the case of Glencore International AG Versus Shree
 Ganesh Metals and Another16, holding that if the circumstances allow, the
 Courts should lean in favour of giving effect to the arbitration clause to
 which the parties have agreed, the Supreme Court has held as follows: 74. Likewise, this Court also takes note of the judgment of the High Court
 of Justice, Queen‟s Bench Division, Commercial Court in the case of NWA
 and another Versus NVF and others17, wherein, the Court was dealing with
 an appeal against an award under Section 67 of the UK Arbitration Act and
 elaborated upon the need for consideration of the commercial rationale of
 parties while constructing an arbitration clause between them. The relevant
 portion of the said judgment reads as under: [8], (the ‗Fiona Trust' case) should be kept firmly in mind: The parties have entered into a relationship, an agreement
 or what is alleged to be an agreement or what appears on its
 face to be an agreement, which may give rise to disputes.
 They want those disputes decided by a tribunal which they
 have chosen, commonly on the grounds of such matters as
 its neutrality, expertise and privacy, the availability of legal
 services at the seat of the arbitration and the unobtrusive
 efficiency of its supervisory law. Particularly in the case of
 international contracts, they want a quick and efficient
 adjudication and do not want to take the risks of delay and,
 in too many cases, partiality, in proceedings before a
 national jurisdiction. 7. If one accepts that this is the purpose of an arbitration
 clause, its construction must be influenced by whether the
 parties, as rational businessmen, were likely to have
 intended that only some of the questions arising out of their
 relationship were to be submitted to arbitration and others
 were to be decided by national courts. ...one would need to
 find very clear language before deciding that they must
 have had such an intention. 8. A proper approach to construction therefore requires the
 court to give effect, so far as the language used by the
 parties will permit, to the commercial purpose of the
 arbitration clause. ...‖ 34. In the case of the Agreement, it is clear that what the parties as
 rational businessmen consensually agreed and intended was that
 any dispute arising out of or in connection with their agreement Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 67 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 should be referred to arbitration. The wording of clause 10.2(b)
 makes that clear; ―the dispute shall be referred to and finally resolved
 by arbitration‖ (emphasis added). They agreed upon LCIA arbitration
 in London. They did not intend that their disputes should be litigated,
 in whole or in part. Indeed, by clause 10.2(g) they even waived ―any
 right of recourse to national courts in order to challenge or appeal
 against any arbitral award.‖
 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 75. Considering the discussion hereinabove, this Court is of a prima facie
 view that there is a valid Arbitration Clause/Agreement governing the
 parties. Whether the impugned arbitration proceedings are oppressive or vexatious
 or unconscionable? 76. Thus, having held that there is a valid Arbitration Clause between the
 parties, this brings the Court to the next question to be decided, i.e., whether
 the plaintiffs have been able to establish that the impugned arbitration
 proceedings commenced at the behest of the defendant are vexatious,
 oppressive or unconscionable for this Court to injunct the said arbitration
 proceedings being held in London. 77. It is pertinent to note that anti-arbitration injunctions are an
 exceptional remedy, granted only in the rarest of circumstances, where the
 arbitration is shown to be vexatious, oppressive and unconscionable. A
 proceeding becomes vexatious if it is found to be without reasonable ground
 to harass or subdue an adversary. Whereas, oppressive proceedings are those
 that unjustly burden the other side to the point of being unconscionable. 78. On this aspect, it is to be noted that Section 45 of Part II of the
 Arbitration Act provides that Courts shall not refer parties to arbitration,
 when the arbitration agreement is null and void; or inoperative or incapable Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 68 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 of being performed. An anti-arbitration injunction is an exceptional relief
 and can be granted only if it is shown that the arbitration agreement is null
 and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed, in line with the
 principles underlying Section 45 of the Arbitration Act. 79. Thus, in the case of World Sport Group (Mauritius) Limited Versus
 MSM Satellite (Singapore) PTE. Limited18, the Supreme Court upheld the
 judgment of the Single Judge in rejecting the relief of injunction against a
 foreign seated arbitral proceeding, on the ground that agreement between the
 parties being void on account of fraud would be for the arbitrator to
 consider. Further, while upholding the said judgment, the Supreme Court
 emphasized upon the mandate of Section 45 of the Arbitration Act, and held
 that unless an agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being
 performed, the Court shall not decline reference to arbitration. Thus, it held
 as follows: (a) in pursuance of an agreement in writing for arbitration
 to which the Convention set forth in the First Schedule applies,
 and 18 2014 SCC OnLine SC 58. (b) in one of such territories as the Central Government,
 being satisfied that reciprocal provisions have been made may, by
 notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be territories to
 which the said Convention applies. 45. Power of judicial authority to refer parties to
 arbitration.--Notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or
 in the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial
 authority, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of
 which the parties have made an agreement referred to in Section 44 , shall, at the request of one of the parties or any
 person claiming through or under him, refer the parties to
 arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is null and
 void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.‖ 25. The language of Section 45 of the Act quoted above makes it
 clear that notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or in the
 Code of Civil Procedure , a judicial authority, when seized of an
 action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an
 agreement referred to in Section 44 , shall, at the request of one of
 the parties or any person claiming through or under him, refer the
 parties to arbitration, unless it finds that the said agreement is
 null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. Thus,
 even if, under Section 9 read with Section 20 CPC, the Bombay
 High Court had the jurisdiction to entertain the suit, once a request
 is made by one of the parties or any person claiming through or
 under him to refer the parties to arbitration, the Bombay High
 Court was obliged to refer the parties to arbitration unless it found
 that the agreement referred to in Section 44 of the Act was null and
 void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. In the present
 case, the appellant may not have made an application to refer the
 parties to arbitration, but Section 45 of the Act does not refer to
 any application as such. Instead, it refers to the request of one of
 the parties or any person claiming through or under him to refer
 the parties to arbitration. In this case, the appellant may not have
 made an application to refer the parties to arbitration at
 Singapore but has filed an affidavit-in-reply to the notice of
 motion and has stated in Paras 3, 4 and 5 of this affidavit that the
 defendant had already invoked the arbitration agreement in the
 Facilitation Deed and the arbitration proceedings have
 commenced and that the suit was an abuse of process of court.
 The appellant had thus made a request to refer the parties to
 arbitration at Singapore which had already commenced. 26. Section 45 of the Act quoted above also makes it clear that
 even where such request is made by a party, it will not refer the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 70 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 parties to arbitration, if it finds that the agreement is null and
 void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. As the very
 language of Section 45 of the Act clarifies the word ―agreement‖
 would mean the agreement referred to in Section 44 of the Act.
 Clause (a) of Section 44 of the Act refers to

 ―... an agreement in writing for arbitration to which the
 Convention set forth in the First Schedule applies‖. (emphasis supplied)
 xxx xxx xxx 34. Albert Jan Van Den Berg in an article titled ―The New York
 Convention, 1958 -- An Overview‖ published in the website of
 ICCA
 (www.arbitration- icca.org/media/0/12125884227980/new_york_convention_of-
 1958_overview.pdf), referring to Article II(3) of the New York
 Convention, states: xxx xxx xxx 36. Thus, the arbitration agreement does not become "inoperative
 or incapable of being performed" where allegations of fraud have
 to be inquired into and the court cannot refuse to refer the parties
 to arbitration as provided in Section 45 of the Act on the ground
 that allegations of fraud have been made by the party which can
 only be inquired into by the court and not by the arbitrator. N.
 Radhakrishnan v. Maestro Engineers [(2010) 1 SCC 72 : ( 2010) 1
 SCC (Civ) 12] and Abdul Kadir Shamsuddin Bubere v. Madhav
 Prabhakar Oak [AIR 1962 SC 406] were decisions rendered in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 71 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 context of domestic arbitration and not in the context of arbitrations
 under the New York Convention to which Section 45 of the Act
 applies. In the case of such arbitrations covered by the New York
 Convention, the Court can decline to make a reference of a
 dispute covered by the arbitration agreement only if it comes to
 the conclusion that the arbitration agreement is null and void,
 inoperative or incapable of being performed, and not on the
 ground that allegations of fraud or misrepresentation have to be
 inquired into while deciding the disputes between the parties.
 xxx xxx xxx 39. The Division Bench of the High Court has also held that as
 allegations of fraud and serious malpractices on the part of the
 appellant are in issue, it is only the court which can decide these
 issues through furtherance of judicial evidence by either party and
 these issues cannot be properly gone into by the arbitrator. As we
 have already held, Section 45 of the Act does not provide that the
 court will not refer the parties to arbitration if the allegations of
 fraud have to be inquired into. Section 45 provides that only if the
 court finds that the arbitration agreement is null and void,
 inoperative or incapable of being performed, it will decline to
 refer the parties to arbitration. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 80. Likewise, in the case of Balaji Steel Trade Versus Fludor Benin S.A.
 and Others19, dealing with a suit seeking a decree of permanent injunction
 restraining the defendant therein from continuing with the foreign seated
 arbitral proceedings in Benin, West Africa, this Court has held as follows: 2024 SCC OnLine Del 7750. 47. Section 45 stipulates the requirements for a judicial authority
 when seized of an action to refer the parties to arbitration. The section
 stipulates that the action must be in a matter in respect of which the
 parties have made an agreement referred to in section 44 . Further, the
 reference should be made at the request of one of the parties. This is
 subject only to the agreement being found by the judicial authority to
 be null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed. It is not
 the Plaintiff's case that the agreements for arbitration are null and
 void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.
 xxx xxx xxx 49. In Sasan Power Ltd. v. North American Coal Corpn.
 (India)(P)(Ltd. ), (2016) 10 SCC 813, the apex court while highlighting
 the essentials under section 45 of the A&C Act, inter-alia held as
 under: 50. In Superon Schweisstechnik India Ltd. v. Europaische Holding
 Intercito , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 4756, wherein it was inter alia held
 that: Further, the factor in relation to an agreement being inoperative would not
 apply in the present case, as the parties themselves were operating under the
 agreement and performing the conditions therein in relation to the voyage.
 Moreover, in pursuance to the operation of the agreement, the parties had
 invoked the force majeure and arbitration clauses. Thus, the factors
 underscored under Section 45 of the Arbitration Act are not applicable to the
 facts of the present case. 82. Likewise, declining to interfere and vacating the injunction granted
 earlier in the absence of any finding that the arbitration agreement itself was
 invalid or incapable of performance, and further stating that the factors
 under Section 45 of the Arbitration Act were not met, whilst emphasizing
 that cases with respect to specific trade require domain expertise in the form
 of specialized arbitration institutions to effectively adjudicate disputes, the
 Court in the case of ADM International Sarl Versus Sunraja Oil Industries
 Private Limited20, held as follows: Appeal of FOSFA. As stated earlier, such arbitration would be
 governed by the English Arbitration Act and the juridical seat of
 arbitration is England. It is also evident that the contracts are
 required to be construed in accordance with English law. Thus, there
 is little doubt that the contract discloses the parties' intention that the
 governing and curial law is English law, and that the arbitration
 would be governed by the FOSFA Rules of Arbitration and Appeal.
 Consequently, the arbitral tribunal constituted as per the contracts
 and not Indian courts should exercise jurisdiction, in the first
 instance, and, thereafter, challenges, if any, would lie before the
 English courts. The only exception that the contracts carve out, in this
 regard, is as regards interim measures to secure the claim or counter
 claim, as the case may be, which may be requested for before an
 appropriate court; but it is certainly not the case of the respective
 Plaintiff that these suits would qualify as actions for such interim
 measures. 24. This leads to the question whether a case is made out to grant an
 anti-arbitration injunction. The principles relating to the grant of
 anti-suit injunctions were examined and formulated in paragraph 24
 of Modi Entertainment, wherein the Supreme Court held, inter alia,
 that an anti-suit injunction would not be granted to forbear the
 exercise of jurisdiction by the forum chosen by the parties. Likewise,
 the law on anti-arbitration injunctions was considered
 in McDonalds India Pvt. Ltd. v. Vikram Bakshi , 2016 SCC OnLine
 Del 3949 (McDonalds) by a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court,
 wherein the Court underscored the fact that the threshold tests for
 an anti-arbitration injunction are more exacting than that
 applicable for an anti-suit injunction and concluded that the
 principal considerations would be those underpinning Section 45 of
 the Indian Arbitration Act, i.e. whether there is an arbitration
 agreement; and whether such agreement is null and void,
 inoperative or incapable of being performed. I respectfully concur
 with the principles set out therein. Therefore, these tests should be
 applied to the case at hand. xxx xxx xxx 27. The respective Plaintiff also contended that the arbitral institution
 is not neutral inasmuch as it is controlled by oil seed producers. In
 effect, the respective Plaintiff appeared to contend that any arbitral
 institution which is set up by a trade organisation is not neutral. On
 this issue, reliance was placed on Laker Airways to contend that the
 onus on the plaintiff is limited to establishing justifiable doubts of
 bias, and that actual bias need not be established. While "justifiable
 doubts of bias" may be a valid test when an arbitral tribunal is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 76 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 challenged either before such tribunal or before a jurisdictional
 court; as stated earlier, a higher threshold should be satisfied for an
 anti-arbitration injunction because the plaintiff should justify the
 departure from the contractual dispute resolution mechanism. There
 are several arbitral institutions spread across the world which are
 established by organisations or entities that represent the interest of
 the specific trade. This is particularly the case with regard to trade
 in commodities such as cotton, oil, spices and the like. The rationale
 for the establishment of such arbitral institutions is that domain
 expertise is necessary to effectively adjudicate such disputes and
 trade practice and the knowledge thereof is also significant. In the
 present context unless it is ex facie evident that the contractual
 remedy is unconscionable and illusory, either because there was no
 genuine agreement to resolve disputes through arbitration or for
 other comparable and compelling reasons, there is no basis to
 interfere with the contractual dispute resolution process. The
 material on record does not support a conclusion that the FOSFA
 arbitral institution is ex facie not neutral and I see no reason to
 draw such conclusion merely because FOSFA is an organisation
 representing the interest of traders in oil seeds and fats. 28. The next contention that should be dealt with relates to the
 alleged lack of neutrality on the part of the arbitrators. Although
 such allegation is levelled by the respective Plaintiff, no actionable
 material has been placed before this Court to substantiate the
 contention that all the panel arbitrators of FOSFA or the specific
 arbitrators in the present case are not neutral. Indeed, the facts on
 record disclose that the respective Plaintiff proceeded to nominate its
 arbitrator upon receiving a notice of arbitration from ADM. The
 decision to abandon the arbitral process and institute proceedings
 before this Court was taken subsequently. In any event, any grievance
 on this score should be canvassed before the arbitral tribunal and/or
 the courts in the UK in accordance with applicable law. 29. A contention was raised that the arbitral institution does not
 permit a party to be represented by an advocate or practising lawyer,
 but that ADM was permitted to avail such assistance. On perusal of
 the English Arbitration Act , I find that there are mandatory provisions
 that ensure equal opportunity ( Section 33 ). Indeed, there are
 provisions to challenge an arbitrator ( Section 23 and 24 ) and
 provisions that enable: jurisdictional challenges (Section 67);
 challenges on the ground of serious irregularity (Section 68); and on
 a point of law (Section 69). Although such provisions are hedged with
 conditions, it is clear that the grounds of challenge raised here by the
 respective Plaintiff could have been and may still be raised before the
 arbitral tribunal or the English courts. 30. Thus, the respective Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that the
 arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of
 being performed. In light of the above discussion and analysis, I
 find no reason to continue the anti-arbitration injunction.
 Consequently, the order of injunction granted originally on
 05.07.2019 and extended periodically stands vacated. I also conclude
 that this Court does not have jurisdiction As a corollary, the
 applications to revoke leave are allowed. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 83. In the case of Jinneng Clean Energy Technology Ltd. Versus
 SunEdison Energy Holding (Singapore) Pte Ltd. and Others21, the Court
 held that the validity or invalidity of the arbitration agreement was under the
 purview of the Arbitral Tribunal as per the principle of Komeptenz-
 Komeptenz. It was held that if the arbitration agreement is prima facie found
 to be valid, the Courts will not enter into the question of validity of
 proceedings before the Arbitral Tribunal. Thus, it was held as follows: jurisdiction will be affected only when the defect causing invalidity
 is directed at the arbitration agreement. 265. The Hon'ble Supreme Court further observed that the
 invalidity of the underlying contract will not necessarily entail the
 invalidity of an arbitration agreement contained in the contract.
 Paragraph No. 110 and &112 of the said judgment reads as under:-- xxx xxx xxx‖

 (Emphasis Supplied) 84. The principles of Kompetenz-Kompetenz, are enshrined in Section 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 80 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 of the Arbitration Act , and it is settled law that Courts will not interfere with
 the questions such as validity or invalidity of the arbitral proceedings, if the
 Courts have prima facie come to the conclusion that there exists a valid
 arbitration clause. Therefore, in the facts of the present case, wherein this
 Court has already held there to be a prima facie valid Arbitration Clause
 between the parties, thus, this Court cannot adjudicate and sit in appeal over
 the contentions in relation to jurisdiction of the Tribunal/LMAA. 85. It is pertinent to note the case of Himachal Sorang Power Private
 Limited and Another Versus NCC Infrastructure Holdings Limited22,
 wherein this Court, while reiterating that Courts should be slow and cautious
 in granting anti-arbitration injunctions, has carved out the parameters
 governing grant of the same, as follows: xxx xxx xxx 101. Insofar as this Court is concerned, a decision cannot be taken
 as to whether the second action would be barred on the ground of
 constructive res judicata without a trial. To my mind, it is
 undoubtedly a mixed question of fact and law. Thus, at this stage, to
 say that the arbitration agreement is inoperative and/or incapable of
 being performed would be, metaphorically speaking, putting the cart
 before the horse. 2019 SCC OnLine Del 7575. xxx xxx xxx 127. Thus, if I were to attempt an encapsulation of the broad
 parameters governing anti-arbitration injunctions, they would be the
 following: xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 86. Likewise, declining anti-arbitration injunction and delineating
 principles with regard thereto, a Division Bench of this Court in the case of
 McDonald‟s India Private Limited Versus Vikram Bakshi and Others23,
 held as follows: 2016 SCC OnLine Del 3949. arbitration injunction and the principles governing the present case
 cannot be the same as one governing a case of an anti-suit
 injunction. This is so because of the principles of autonomy of
 arbitration and the competence-competence (Kompetenz-kompetenz)
 principle. For the present, it is necessary to note point numbers 6 and
 7 in the extract from the Supreme Court decision in Modi
 Entertainment Network (supra). It has been observed that when one of
 the parties to a contract containing a jurisdiction clause approaches
 the court of choice in which exclusive or non-exclusive jurisdiction is
 created, the proceedings in that court cannot per se be treated as
 vexatious or oppressive. Furthermore, the burden of establishing
 that the proceedings in the forum of choice are oppressive or
 vexatious would be on the party so contending to aver and prove the
 same. 41. The only principle on which the respondents' case is based is that
 the arbitration proceedings at London would be vexatious or
 oppressive. But, as pointed out in Modi Entertainment
 Network (supra), merely because an arbitration is proceeded with at
 the place of choice (London), would not, per se amount to a
 vexatious or oppressive proceeding. The onus would be on the
 respondents to establish that the arbitration proceedings are
 oppressive or vexatious. We may also note that the learned counsel
 for the respondents had categorically stated that it is not the place of
 arbitration or the expenses which would be incurred for the conduct
 of arbitration proceedings at London, which is the objection on their
 part. The objection is to the forum of arbitration itself being vexatious.
 In other words, the grievance of the respondents is not with regard to
 the place of arbitration, but to the arbitration proceedings itself !
 xxx xxx xxx 60. Our focus is on the question whether an anti-arbitration
 injunction could at all have been granted in the facts and
 circumstances of the present case. We have already explained as to
 how, if the arbitration agreement was taken to be one which was
 covered under Section 44 of the 1996 Act, the arbitration
 proceedings could not be injuncted because the same was neither
 null or void, inoperative or incapable or being performed. Even if we
 assume that Part I of the 1996 Act was to apply, then also, because
 of the provisions of Section 8 , the judicial authority would be obliged
 to refer the parties to arbitration. We may point out that Section 8 and, in particular, sub-section (1) thereof has been recently amended
 with retrospective effect from 23.10.2015 to read as under : - 61. Thus, there is now a mandate to refer the parties to arbitration
 unless the court finds that prima facie (sic) no valid arbitration
 agreement exists. This is clearly not the case here. Therefore, in any
 eventuality, in the facts and circumstances of the case and applying
 the principles, as indicated above, the learned single Judge could not
 have restrained the appellant from pursuing the arbitration
 proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. 62. There is a very interesting observation in paragraph 7.01
 of Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration: Sixth Edition: 63. Courts need to remind themselves that the trend is to minimize
 interference with arbitration process as that is the forum of choice.
 That is also the policy discernible from the 1996 Act. Courts must be
 extremely circumspect and, indeed, reluctant to thwart arbitration
 proceedings. Thus, while courts in India may have the power to
 injunct arbitration proceedings, they must exercise that power rarely
 and only on principles analogous to those found in sections 8 and 45 , as the case may be, of the 1996 Act. We have already indicated
 that the circumstances of invalidity of the arbitration agreement or it
 being inoperative or incapable of being performed do not exist in
 this case. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 87. In the present case, the plaintiffs have contended that the arbitration
 proceedings are vexatious, as the plaintiffs neither agreed to contract with
 the defendant, nor arbitrate with the defendant. 88. As regards the contention of the plaintiffs that the arbitral proceedings
 in London are vexatious, this Court has already given a prima facie finding
 that there exists a valid contract between the parties and that the contractual
 terms between the parties incorporate a valid Arbitration Clause. Therefore,
 the contention of the plaintiffs in this regard is rejected. 89. It is further contended by the plaintiffs that the arbitration proceedings
 are oppressive as after nine months of proceedings against plaintiff no. 2, in
 December, 2024, the defendant invoked a Second Reference arising out of
 the same Booking Note, same voyage and same cause of action against
 plaintiff no. 1. Thus, as per the plaintiffs, this has made plaintiffs bear the
 risk of double cost as well as inconsistent decisions. 90. Further, it is contended that the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal in
 London in allowing both arbitral proceedings to "co-exist" is ex-facie
 unconscionable. 91. As regards the aforesaid contention, this Court notes the submission
 on behalf of the defendant that the defendant was constrained to invoke two
 references against the respective plaintiffs, due to the conduct of the
 plaintiffs. The Booking Note identifies the "Merchant" as "SARR Freights" 92. As per the case put forth by the defendant, it was only subsequently
 that it became apparent that the Charter Party/Booking Note did not name
 plaintiff no. 2 and was executed and stamped by plaintiff no. 1. When Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 85 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 clarification was sought by the defendant, the plaintiff no. 2 stated that the
 plaintiff no. 2 was only acting as an agent of plaintiff no. 1. The defendant
 even tried to revise the first reference itself for it to be against plaintiff no.1.
 However, plaintiff no. 2 denied such revision. Since plaintiff no. 1 was
 nowhere named in the Booking Note and plaintiff no. 2 had not represented
 itself as an agent while signing, the defendant invoked arbitration against
 plaintiff no. 1 in the Second Reference, in order to obtain an award against
 the correct contractual party. 93. Before this Court, the defendant has stated in categorical terms that
 since the LMAA has unanimously held that plaintiff no. 1 was the
 ―Merchant‖ and ―Charterer‖ under the Fixture Recap and Booking Note,
 the defendant seeks to continue proceedings only against plaintiff no. 1. 94. Thus, this Court notes the submission of the defendant in this regard
 in their Reply to the present application, relevant portions of which, are
 reproduced as under: Such finding was made by the Ld. Arbitral Tribunal after evaluating
 the evidence produced by both parties. Hence, the Plaintiff No. 2
 failed to demonstrate that it was the contractual counterparty as
 alleged by them in both First Reference and Second Reference.
 xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 95. This Court has already held that prima facie there exists a valid
 Arbitration Clause between the parties and that the plaintiffs have failed to
 prima facie establish that the present case falls within the contours of Section 45 of the Arbitration Act, in order to impel this Court to exercise its
 jurisdiction to injunct the arbitration proceedings in London. There is
 nothing before this Court that the plaintiffs are not being given equal
 opportunities to present their case before the learned Arbitral Tribunal, or
 that the arbitral proceedings are otherwise vexatious or oppressive, in any
 manner. 96. At this stage, it is apposite to refer to the case of Ms. Sancorp Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 87 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 Confectionary Pvt. Ltd. and Another Versus M/s Gumlink A/S 24, wherein,
 this Court while denying an anti-arbitration injunction on the ground that
 prima facie there existed an arbitration agreement between the parties, has
 held that in certain situations, granting an interim relief tantamounts to grant
 of the final relief, whereas, denial of the same would translate to dismissal of
 the main case itself and therefore, in such cases, the threshold for granting
 the interim relief/injunction must be such that withholding of the same
 would prick the conscience of the Court. Thus, it was held as follows: The interim relief sought by the plaintiffs before this Court is an
 injunction restraining the defendant from continuing with the
 arbitration proceedings before SIAC. If such an interim relief is
 granted, it would amount to almost decreeing the suit since it will
 not be possible for the defendant to continue with the arbitration
 proceedings already initiated before SIAC. It would be unrealistic to
 assume that this suit would be decided in a short span permitting
 resumption of arbitration in the event of the suit being ultimately
 decided on merits. On the other hand, it is also equally true that
 refusal of injunction would amount to frustrating the relief sought
 by the plaintiffs in the absence of injunction from this Court, the
 Arbitrator may go ahead with the proceedings above the award,
 thereby giving the full fait accompli to the plaintiffs.
 Referring to such a situation, Supreme Court in the Deoraj v. State of
 Maharashtra (2004) 4 SCC 697, inter alia, held as under : - The observations made in this order being tentative and prima facie
 would affect the decision of the suit on merits. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 97. Having regard to the position of law as aforesaid, in view of the prima
 facie validity of the agreement between the parties, the arbitration clause Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 89 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 therein, and there being no exceptional circumstances being made out by the
 plaintiffs, this Court is not inclined to grant an interim injunction. 98. At this juncture, this Court notes the judgment in the case of LMJ
 International Limited Versus Sleepwell Industries Co. Ltd. & Anr.25,
 wherein, while relying on the principles governing anti-suit injunctions and
 respecting Comity of Courts, the Court held that in the absence of coercion
 or demonstrable injustice, there was no justification to restrain the agreed
 arbitral process. Thus, it was held as follows: The additional grounds appeared to be that there is no agreement
 between the plaintiff and the defendant to refer any dispute arising
 out the said contract to arbitration either as per GAFTA Rules, 125
 in London or otherwise. In deciding the said issue, the reference is
 required to be made to the contract containing such arbitration
 clause. There cannot be any dispute that the obligation to make
 payment or avoidance of any such payment is arising out of a
 transaction covered by the contract which contains the arbitration
 the arbitration clause. The principal ground of forum inconvenience
 does not apply to civil suits in India which are governed by the Code
 of Civil Procedure in view of the specific bar created by Section
 41(b) of the Specific Relief Act. However, the doctrine of
 anticipatory injunction which is very often now being applied in
 resisting a proceeding before a foreign court or tribunal on the
 ground that since the courts in India like the Courts in England are
 courts of both law and equity and thus, all equitable principle the
 Court in India may grant an order of injunction restraining a party
 from proceeding before any foreign court or forum. However, this
 doctrine has to be applied with care and caution as it involves the
 issue of respect for corresponding another international forum.
 Although in this case, it is a proceeding before an arbitral tribunal 25 2012 SCC OnLine Cal 10733. but the same principle is to be applied in which the tests are that the
 Court in the domestic forum may grant an ad interim order of
 injunction to avoid injustice or if the foreign proceedings are found
 to be oppressive or vexatious or to put it simply "in the ends of
 justice". 63. In Modi Entertainment Network & Anr. v. W.S.G. Cricket Pte .
 Ltd. reported in AIR 2003 SC 1177 it was held that where parties
 have agreed, under a non-exclusive jurisdiction clause, to approach
 a neutral foreign forum and be governed by the law applicable to it
 for the resolution of their disputes arising under the contract,
 ordinarily no anti-suit injunction will be granted in regard to
 proceedings in such a forum convenience and favoured forum as it
 shall be presumed that the parties have thought over their
 convenience and all other relevant factors submitting to non-
 exclusive jurisdiction of the court of their choice which cannot be
 treated just an alternative forum. 64. The Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down principles governing anti-
 suit injunction in Paragraph 23 of the said report which is reproduced
 here in below:- 2. In a case where more forums than one are available, the Court in
 exercise of its discretion to grant anti-suit injunction will examine as
 to which is the appropriate forum (Forum conveniens) having regard
 to the convenience of the parties and may grant anti-suit injunction
 in regard to proceedings which are oppressive or vexations or in a
 forum non-conveniens; 3. Where a jurisdiction of a Court is invoked on the basis of
 jurisdiction clause in a contract, the recitals therein in regard to
 exclusive or nonexclusive jurisdiction of the court of choice of the
 parties are not determinative but are relevant factors and when a
 question arises as to the nature of jurisdiction agreed to between
 the parties the court has to decide the same on a true interpretation
 of the contract on the facts and in the circumstances of each case; 4. A court of natural jurisdiction will not normally grant anti-suit
 injunction against a defendant before it where parties have agreed
 to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of a court including a
 foreign court, a forum of their choice in regard to the
 commencement or continuance of proceedings in the court of
 choice, save in an exceptional case for good and sufficient reasons,
 with a view to prevent injustice in circumstances such as which
 permit a contracting party to be relieved of the burden of the
 contract; or since the date for the contract the circumstances or
 subsequent events have made it impossible for the party seeking
 injunction to prosecute the case in the court of choice because the
 essence of the jurisdiction of the court does not exist or because of
 a vis major or force majeure and the like; 5. Where parties have agreed, under a non-exclusive jurisdiction
 clause, to approach a neutral foreign forum and be governed by
 the law applicable to it for the resolution of their disputes arising
 under the contract, ordinarily no antisuit injunction will be
 granted in regard to proceedings in such a forum conveniens and
 favoured forum as it shall be presumed that the parties have
 thought over their convenience and all other relevant factors
 before submitting to non-exclusive jurisdiction of the court of their
 choice which cannot be treated just an alternative forum; 6. A party to the contract containing jurisdiction clause cannot
 normally be prevented from approaching the court of choice of the
 parties as it would amount to aiding breach of the contract; yet when
 one of the parties to the jurisdiction clause approaches the court of
 choice in which exclusive or nonexclusive jurisdiction is created, the
 proceedings in that court cannot per se be treated as vexatious or
 oppressive nor can the court be said to be forum nonconveniens; 7. The burden of establishing that the forum of the choice is a
 forum nonconveniens or the proceedings therein are oppressive or
 vexatious would be on the party so contending to aver and prove
 the same. 65. In an earlier judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Oil and
 Natural Gas Commission v. Western Company of North America reported in MANU/SC/0014/1987 : 1987 (1) SCC 496 which possibly
 was the first case where the Hon'ble Supreme Court in exercising
 jurisdiction under Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure granted
 antisuit injunction. 66. In Albon v. Naza Motor Trading Sdn Bhd reported in 2008 (1)
 Lloyd's Law Reports, the court of appeal in considering a case of anti-
 arbitration injunction observed that if it appears that the agreement to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 92 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01 arbitrate has been forged in order to defeat proceedings properly
 brought in Civil Court (England), the autonomy of the arbitrators can
 be undermined. In paragraph 7 of the said report it was held that a
 party will not be restrained from instituting or continuing foreign
 proceedings unless the applicant can show that to do so would be
 oppressive and vexatious or (as it sometimes said) unconscionable.
 Paragraph 7 of the said report is reproduced here in below:- Rix LJ then said that while these are conditions for the grant of an
 anti-suit injunction (and in that sense may be said to go to
 jurisdiction), these considerations are again relevant when the court
 comes to exercise its discretion. I would, however, myself prefer to say
 that the conditions set out in (iii) above do not, strictly speaking, go to
 jurisdiction. They are requirements of the exercise of a jurisdiction
 that the court already has. This is, however, purely a matter of
 nomenclature and I have no doubt that, while Rix LJ confined his
 permission to appeal in the present case to the question of jurisdiction
 and refused permission to appeal against the judge's discretion, he
 intended there to be full argument as to the principles on which the
 judge exercised his jurisdiction. 67. In the instant case, there is no dispute that the said contract
 containing arbitration clause has been validly and duly executed by
 the parties. 68. In Kvaerner Cementation (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 declined to stay the arbitration proceeding in view of Section 16 of
 the Arbitration and Conciliation Act which permits the arbitral
 tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. The Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has also taken into consideration the object of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 . xxx xxx xxx 73. In view of the aforesaid, it cannot be said that the proceeding
 under the GAFTA Rules would be oppressive or vexatious. The
 ground to resist the said arbitration is that it involves prohibitive
 costs. The appellant was not compelled to execute the said
 agreement. The appellant precisely knew at the time of execution of
 the contract that in the event of any dispute arising out of the said
 contract, it would be governed by the GAFTA Arbitration Rules, 125. In absence of any demonstrable injustice or harassment being
 caused by reason of initiation of the arbitral proceedings
 participation in such proceeding and having regard to the fact that
 the agreement is not in dispute, in our view, the plaintiff is not
 entitled to an order of injunction. The learned judge, in our view,
 was justified in vacating the interim order and dismissing the inter
 locutory application filed by the plaintiff. xxx xxx xxx‖
 (Emphasis Supplied) 99. Thus, considering the aforesaid and also keeping in mind the judicial
 principle of Comity of Courts (See: Modi Entertainment Network Versus
 W.S.G. Cricket Pte. Ltd.26 and Devi Resources Versus Ambo Exports
 Ltd.27), the principle of minimal judicial interference (See: Interplay
 Between Arbitration Agreements under Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
 1996 & Stamp Act, 1899 , In re28), as well as the legislative intent of
 enactment of the Arbitration Act , this Court finds no occasion whatsoever to
 interfere in the LMAA arbitration proceedings in London, at this prima facie
 stage. (2003) 4 SCC 341 - Paras 10 and 20. 2019 SCC OnLine Cal 7774 - Para 55. (2024) 6 SCC 1 - Paras 67, 74, 81. CONCLUSION: 100. Accordingly, in view of the overall conspectus of the present dispute
 and the position of law noted hereinabove, it is held that the plaintiffs have
 failed to prima facie establish the exceptional circumstances for grant of
 anti-arbitration injunction in the present case. The plaintiffs have not been
 able to prima facie establish that the arbitration proceedings in London are
 vexatious or oppressive or unconscionable. 101. Further, the questions as to whether the arbitral proceedings in
 London are vexatious, oppressive or unconscionable, are mixed questions of
 fact and law, which would have to be established by the plaintiffs by leading
 evidence. 102. Considering the detailed discussion hereinabove, no merit is found in
 the present application. 103. It is clarified that nothing contained herein shall be construed as an
 expression on the merits of the dispute between the plaintiffs and defendant.
 Further, the Court has only expressed a prima facie opinion herein, and the
 merits of the claims as raised by the plaintiffs in the present suit shall be the
 subject matter of final adjudication, post the trial in the present suit. 104. Accordingly, in view of the aforesaid discussion, the present
 application is dismissed. CS(OS) 868/2025 105. List before the Joint Registrar (Judicial) for further proceedings on
 01st April, 2026. MINI PUSHKARNA
 (JUDGE)
 MARCH 13, 2026/ Kr/Ak Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(OS) 868/2025 Page 95 of 95 By:HARIOM SHARMA Signing Date:13.03.2026 18:57:01