Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Discussion on the motion for consideration of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill, 2017. HON. CHAIRPERSON : The House will now take up item No. 7, that is, Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill, 2017. THE MINISTER OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (SHRI PRAKASH JAVADEKAR):  Sir, I beg to move: I have a very peculiar experience while dealing with the Education Department. You will be having many. You ask the same officer of the Education Department in the same meeting three times and you will get three types of answers. I do not know what type of answers you are getting, but this is my experience. Therefore, I would say that you need to have a separate Budget for RTE as it will be easier for us to monitor; easier for the Government to monitor; and easier for the Ministry to ascertain the out-of-school children as there is a shortfall in conducting the regular household survey by the States. The HRD Ministry has no control over it as it is another Ministry that deals with it. It is necessary when you are dealing with a law and therefore the HRD Ministry should look into that aspect. The U-DISE School Report Card data has inconsistencies; is incomplete; and is also not being validated at appropriate level. When we talk about infrastructure, which was to be in place within three years of implementation of the Act -- which means it should have been in place by 2013 -- has still not been fully created. To top it all, the National Advisory Council on implementation of the provision of this Act is non-existent since November 2014. There must be some reason behind it. If you do not have an Advisory Council since last two years and some months, then there must be some reason behind it. Therefore, I would say that this is a very serious matter. The Bill, of course, deals with only one aspect and that aspect is relating to shortage of qualified teachers, but I have full faith in the Minister. He has taken up this Ministry in full earnest and is trying his best because Human Resource Development Ministry is very vast and especially this is a subject, which needs utmost attention and care. He has picked up one aspect, which has been pending for last so many years or say at least three years, which should have been completed by 2013. I have a question relating to this issue. Why did you bring it in 2017? However, I will come to that question later, Sir. The HRD Ministry must be given due credit for an excellent decision that they have taken very recently. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is going to organise a National Achievement Survey in September this year. This is a very good decision. This survey aims to check the learning levels of students of Class 3, Class 5 and Class 8. After the survey reaches its conclusion, the results will identify the gaps, which will be communicated to the students and the schools. It will help the schools to improve the learning level of their students. This is a very welcome step. It has been pointed out multiple times that even though the enrolment rate of students in Indian schools is high, but very little education is being actually imparted. ASER 2016, which is an independent survey, pointed out that more than 30 per cent of Class 8 students cannot read Class 2 textbooks, and only 19 per cent of Class 8 students can do simple division. According to the findings of the Report, the  percentage of kids with the ability to read English is unchanged for lower primary grades since 2009; only 24.5 per cent of children enrolled in Standard V could read simple English sentences. One hopes now that the Government has taken up the job of learning levels, instead of an independent body doing the same, there won’t be any number jugglery involved to show a rosy picture than it already is. Under the present law, since  the States do not have adequate teachers, specially States do not have adequate Teachers Training Institutes and sufficient number of qualified teachers, the provision to possess minimum qualification was relaxed till March 31,2015. That date has passed two years ago. Still we have an immense problem of getting hold of qualified teachers for imparting the grand dream of free education, quality education. The HRD Ministry runs the Central schools. I would like to deal with it a little bit. Most of the schools are under-staffed; where teachers are there, they are mostly into petty politics. General policy of posting local principals and teachers in schools results in schools not functioning because they end up teaching less and doing other things more.  Can’t you do something? It is not uncommon to find people who have got the permanent status as teachers subletting their posts to others for a fraction of their salaries, while they themselves stay at home and carry on with their usual business. Can the Government inform this House what happened when the earlier March 31st 2015 deadline approached? Were those under-qualified teachers banned from teaching? It has been two years since the deadline, and there might be some amount of churning that had happened within the education system. Did this force certain teachers to get trained as quickly as possible in order to retain their posts? In violation of Section 25(2) read with Section 27 of the Act, teachers are being deployed for non–educational  purposes in nine States. Today, the CAG audit report has been placed in the House. The Finance Ministry must have gone through this. A large amount of money is with the States; it has to be appropriated. Money going from the Union Government to the respective States is also not in congruence. This has happened during the last seven years. It is high time, you should take stock of this. And it is necessary that this needs adequate attention. What I have found is, the Government must also inform this House as to how many unqualified teachers were barred from teaching since 2015 and as to how it has ensured that they do not sneak into schools to teach on ad hoc basis. Therefore, my amendment is, you cannot control all these things at the Union Government level. Allow the respective States to take decisions, especially as this is the right-based law. For  any change that you want to make in the law, you have to come to Parliament, you have to get it sanctioned. Bring in an amendment to this effect, as I have moved, allowing the States that if they want to increase certain things for the better functioning of these elementary schools, they can do so at their level. For the right-based law, why can’t we allow or empower the respective States to do this? Therefore, my amendment says, “such extended period as may be specified by the State Government by notification.” It will lessen your burden and you can concentrate on more productive use of your time. With these words, I conclude. Thank you. SHRI JAYADEV GALLA ( GUNTUR ): Sir, with your permission, I will speak from here. I thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak on this small but very important piece of legislation. The Bill has only one objective and that is to increase the period for teachers to acquire prescribed qualification by four more years or up to March, 2019. I welcome this and thank the hon. Minister Shri Javadekarji on behalf of lakhs of teachers in the country who have been requesting this at least for the last two years. I thank you. The Bill is necessary because from March, 2015, teachers have been barred from getting requisite qualification in view of the deadline and, secondly, the State Governments were not able to continue the process of imparting training to untrained teachers because of legislative hurdle. Most of the speakers have covered in detail the need for quality, and not just quantity; the gaps between private and Government schools; the gaps between urban and rural; the gaps between North and South, East, West and North-East and the gaps between action and intent. I am not going to repeat all of that now. But, I want to spend some time talking about the gaps even among the best schools today and what is needed for the future. 15.11 hours                (Shri Hukmdeo Narayan Yadav in the Chair) 

          The current form or the system of education was developed in the wake of the Industrial Revolution in the early 1800s. The concept of free and universal education and later mandatory education was the result of the needs of this era. Children were sorted by date of birth as if that was the only similarity worth considering. According to Howard Gardner of Harvard University, there are nine types of intelligence. These include musical, visual, verbal, logical, kinesthetic, inter-personal, intra-personal, naturalistic and existential or moral intelligence. Every person will possess a multiple of these types of intelligence. No human being, is alive, who does not possess at least a few of these types of intelligence. But the educational system is designed to recognize, develop and reward only some of these types. Till now, this has resulted in many children not being able to recognize their own talent. Even if they did, there were inadequate resources and opportunities to develop those talents. Now, with the advent of the fourth Industrial Revolution on the back of rapid technological changes taking place right now, we need a complete rethink of the education system, the way it was done during the last Industrial Revolution. I think, it is time for us now to look at this as to what we need from this next industrial revolution that is taking place right in front of our eyes. With artificial intelligence, Robotics, machine learning, 3D printing, autonomous cars, buses, trucks and maybe even planes, the vast majority of our jobs will be lost to automation. Even the low-end services, within these areas of coding, accounting, legal, teaching and even judicial verdicts, are now being automated. The skills and knowledge required by children studying in schools today, will be inadequate by the time they are looking for jobs. The curriculum, the methodology, the duration and the outcomes need to be re-looked at not only at the primary level but at secondary, technical training, under-graduate and even graduate levels. The skills required for the future will be the skills that are difficult to automate, the skills that have to do with creative thinking, reasoning and judgment. Reading, Writing and Arithmetic, the three Rs as they used to call it, are no longer sufficient. Even the STEM education, the emphasis that we have been putting on the STEM education, which is science, technology, engineering and mathematics, is creating one-dimensional knowledge and capability that can be easily automated.  With so much of automation, the people employed will be working fewer hours also. This will give rise to more demands for both leisure and entertainment. Therefore, the creative skills required to entertain people will be in much more demand in the future. We need more emphasis on sports, drama, music, art, poetry, all of these fine arts as well as liberal arts and social sciences which are completely inadequate today in all levels of education. I believe, these are the subjects required for the future. These are the subjects that will be difficult for machines to overtake the capability of humans. Sir, I would like to make one more point relating to the expenditure to train untrained teachers. I am sorry to say that the Government after devolution of 42 per cent divisible funds to the States is dumping everything on the States. It is saying that since they have given 42 per cent, so, the States should do the entire thing. In the present case, you are asking the States to bear 60 per cent of the expenditure involved. The States are not in a position to bear this burden since it is not a one time expenditure. It is a recurring one. I suggest for the consideration of the hon. Minister to make this as 10:90 ratio between the States and the Centre. I hope the entire House will agree with me. Sir, the final point is that it is not just target three of the MDG 2 which only wants to ensure that children complete primary education by 2015. But the most important point is in Goal 4c of the Sustainable Development Goals which emphasise that the supply of qualified teachers including through international cooperation for teacher training has to be taken up by developing countries. So, I would like to know from the hon. Minister as to what international exposure the Ministry is proposing to give to our teachers so that teachers will get an opportunity to understand the methodologies, techniques and other things being implemented elsewhere. With these observations, I request the hon. Minister to look into the issues raised and take an appropriate action for holistic development of children as profounded under the RTE Act . While doing so, please look for opportunities to leapfrog to the future rather than expanding the existing obsolete system. SHRI BALKA SUMAN ( PEDDAPALLI ): First of all, on behalf of Telangana Rashtra Samithi Party, I would like to welcome and support the Bill. The Bill aims to offer free and compulsory elementary education to children between six and fourteen years of age. The Bill came into effect on the 10th of April, 2010 and states that the teachers who do not have the required eligibility should get it within five years but several States could not provide the required training for the in-service untrained teachers before the deadline, i.e., 31st March, 2015. That is why the new Bill has been brought as some of the State Governments were not able to continue that training process for in-service untrained teachers. Sir, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, Father of the Indian Constitution, said in his writings, “We can eradicate anything through education only”. But we can see two Indias in our country. One is convent-corporate India and another is common-man India. Nowadays, in education sector, convent schools and corporate schools have become completely fees and money oriented. That is why I urge upon the Central Government and the State Governments also that we must focus on school education, especially, government school education. We must focus on quality education. I request the hon. HRD Minister to allocate sufficient budget for education sector. Also, Sir, we are a new State – Telangana – led by our Chief Minister, Shri K. Chandrashekar Rao garu, who has been advancing and pioneering the State in the field of education. He is setting an example to other States in our country. One of the greatest policies that our Government has introduced is free education from KG to PG. Our Government has taken this seriously and is targeting to complete its implementation. As the hon. Minister is aware, we have established more than 525 residential schools in our State in the last three years.  We spend Rs.1.2 lakh on each student per annum. Our Government also provides superfine rice in all Government hostels as well as in schools as part of mid-day meal. We are spending more than Rs.225 crore on that per annum. As our children are the future of our nation, providing them quality education from the formative years is vital in shaping up the children’s future as also the future of the nation in the 21st century. Telangana State is aggressively moving forward in this direction and is redesigning the syllabi at the elementary education level to make the children future proof and to make them ready to face any real challenges in their lives. Other States may take up the education model of Telangana and follow it in order to meet the objectives of the right of children to free and compulsory education. As the hon. Minister is aware, recently we have formed 21 new Districts in our State. Therefore, we need 21 Navodaya Vidyalayas and 21 Kendriya Vidyalayas for these 21 new Districts. I would request the hon. Minister to sanction these institutions in the interest of our State and in the interest of our students. Sir, once again I would, on behalf of Telangana Rashtra Samiti, welcome this Bill. DR. A. SAMPATH ( ATTINGAL ): Pranamam, Mr. Chairman, Sir. First of all I would like to appreciate the intention of the hon. Minister and I would like to welcome the Bill with certain reservations which I hope the Ministry may be able to clarify. As a good friend of hon. Prakash Javadekar-ji, I would request the hon. Minister as the Chairman of the Consultative Committee of HRD to kindly visit some of the Government schools as well as aided schools without giving prior notice. Have we ever talked with, have we invited any suggestions from the children? We are supposed to enact laws and we believe that we know everything under the Sun. And we believe we know everything about our children also. But we know nothing about our children. There is a saying in English that a child is the father of man. We have to learn quite a lot from our children after the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Paragraph 2 of the Statement of Objects and Reasons says, “Pursuant to insertion of Article 21A in the Constitution by the Constitution (Eighty-Sixth) Amendment Act, 2012 …” As per paragraph 5 here, this Bill intends to provide that every teacher appointed or in position as on 31st March, 2015 who does not possess minimum qualifications as laid down under Sub- Section 1 of the said section, shall acquire such minimum qualifications within a period of four years and from the date of commencement of the proposed legislation. My humble submission to the Minister through you, Sir, is do not extend this cutoff date any further. If the unqualified teachers are teaching the poor students, I mean poor students because they are at the receiving end, some measures should be taken for them. We speak about the rights of children. We dictate terms that this is your right. Suppose this is your house. This is the House of the people. But with no doors open, how would the people come into a house? It is just like that. The schoolchildren are being taught by the persons who are not at all qualified. If they are being taught by the persons who are not qualified and who are not having any inspiration or intention to get qualified within the time the Government has stipulated, what is going to happen? It will be as per the reply that was given to the Starred Question No. 85 today in the House. By 2024, the population of India will be more than 137 crore. The year of 2024 is not very far; we are in 2017. Can we assure that by that time there will not be even a single person who remains illiterate in our nation which is going to celebrate its 70th anniversary?  After five years, we are going to celebrate the platinum jubilee of our Independence. Still now, सभापति महोदय, आप देखिए, the largest number of total illiterates are in this nation. The Right to Education itself will not work. What is the nutritional standard of the students, the children, the infants? I admit that nowadays in our schools the Mid-day Meal programme is being implemented. That has also to be scrutinised as our learned friend Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab told about the issue of DISHA. I do not know how many of our hon. Members chairing the DISHA have visited the Mid-day Meal programme that is when food is being served in Government schools and aided schools? What about the breakfast? Lakhs and lakhs of children are coming to schools with an empty stomach. A teacher who is not at all qualified is teaching them something. It does not enter into the brains of the children; it does not go to the hearts of the children. The teacher writes something on the blackboard and the child is supposed to see it but he is not able to digest it because his stomach is empty. पेट में कुछ नहीं है। This is the peculiar situation in most of the public schools. I am sorry to use the word ‘public’. ‘Public school’ means the doors are closed for the public. There are quite a lot of public schools but they are not for the public. They are for the rich, for the affluent and for the corporates. Nowadays, education has become a business without any ethics. From the kindergarten to primary schools, high schools, 10+2 schools, professional colleges and self-financed colleges, we can see this. They are accepting bribe to give admission into colleges or increase seats in the professional colleges, whether it is engineering college or medical college.  This is all happening. … (Interruptions) It happens everywhere and some of the politicians own the so-called ‘self-financed’ colleges. What type of culture will it promote? … (Interruptions) I will not take much time. I would request the hon. Minister that we have to ensure good education. Good education means increasing the human quality. Increasing the human quality means raising the human dignity, increasing the efficiency of the human beings and increasing the standard of living of the human beings.  Merely enacting the laws is not enough. The laws will remain in the books. Children need food, water, toilets and playgrounds also. How many schools have playgrounds? Do our children not have the right to play? We are asking our children to study, पढ़ो, पढ़ो, पढ़ो। Nobody asks them to go and play. माननीय सभापति :माननीय सदस्य, अब साढ़े तीन बज चुके हैं। यदि सभा की सहमति हो, तो गैर सरकारी सदस्यों के कार्य को इस विधेयक के समाप्त होने के पश्चात् ले लिया जाए। …( व्यवधान) अनेक माननीय सदस्यः जी हाँ। DR. A. SAMPATH : Regarding the basic structure, the development is intertwined and interconnected; only one Ministry cannot do all these things. So, my humble suggestion is this. I fear the Government of India is shifting the burden upon the shoulders of the State Governments. The successive Governments have not fulfilled the promises or are not fulfilling the constitutional obligation of free and compulsory education. If the Minister agrees, there should be a thorough discussion on how to increase the standard of education and what we can do not only regarding the enrolment ratio but also regarding the dropout ratio. They are all human beings. They have nothing to eat. Many children do not go to school. They are in the paddy field or wheat field helping their mothers and fathers in earning something. So, they are not going to school. Shri Prakash Javadekar knows it very well. Our hon. Minister was a student leader. Hon. Chairman, you stand for social justice. My request to the Minister is this. Kindly have a separate budget for HRD and increase the allotment that has been put here. Again and again, the recurring expenditure is coming and it is being put on the heads and shoulders of the State Governments. … (Interruptions) HON. CHAIRPERSON : Please conclude now. … (Interruptions) DR. A. SAMPATH : Yes, I am concluding. … (Interruptions) I am coming from a State where the three-language formula is being followed. Many hon. Members have said that most of our children do not know how to read, write, and calculate. These matters also have to be looked into. SHRI MEKAPATI RAJA MOHAN REDDY ( NELLORE ): Mr. Chairman Sir, thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak on the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill, 2017. I support this Bill. This Bill facilitates or gives an opportunity for untrained teachers to have training before the 31st March, 2019. In spite of the many concessions given by the Government, people still prefer to send their children to private schools though the fees are high. People who cannot afford also struggle and send their children to the private schools. Earlier, children used to drop out because they could not find toilets in the schools. Now, under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan every school in the country is going to be provided separate toilets for boys and girls.  It is a good thing.  The Government has to provide good infrastructure and faculty to attract all types of students.  According to one estimate, out of 66 lakh teachers, 11 lakh teachers do not have proper training.  They are untrained.   An opportunity is being given to them to get training before 31st March, 2019.  It is a good thing. Sir, intelligence is not the property of affluent society only.    Among poor people we have a number of people who have excellent intelligence.  We have a number of such examples.  In the united Andhra Pradesh, Dr. Rajasekhara Reddy, when he was the Chief Minister, introduced Fees Reimbursement Scheme for not only Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe or OBC students but also for the forward class students who are economically weak, with the result children are able to study engineering, medicine, MCA and MBA.  He wanted to have a knowledgeable society in Anhdra Pradesh and that is why he introduced the Fees Reimbursement Scheme. We have many examples of great people.  Intelligence is a national asset.  We have to preserve, encourage and utilise intelligence for the welfare of the society and for the welfare of the country as a whole.  We have many living examples.  Dr. Ambedkar, Dr. Abdul Kalam and Shri K.R. Narayanan who belonged to poor families but they got the world fame.  So, we should encourage the intelligent children even among the poor class.  We have to encourage them and use their intelligence for the welfare of the society.  Similarly, we have the stalwarts in the software industry; Shri Narayana Murthy, Shri Azim Premji, Shri Satya Nadella and Shri Sundar Pichai.  All these people might have come from poor families only but have become world famous.  So, we have to encourage the intelligent students among poor people and give them best education so that they can be useful for the welfare of the country.  I would, therefore, request the hon. Minister to create infrastructure and good faculty for the poor children also so that our country can prosper.  Thank you, Sir. SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE ( BARAMATI ): Thank you very much, Sir.  I would like to congratulate the hon. Minister, who happens to come from the same State as I do, who has done exemplary work in his career for education.  Actually, Right to Education is the dream of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar.  So, I think we are all taking his dream forward.  It is a pleasure today that in Parliament, whichever side we are sitting on, we are all unanimously standing here to support the Bill. I would like to mention here that the hon. Minister at home has a teacher as his partner.  So, this is not something different for him.  He is somebody who has worked closely and he knows what the challenges are. I come from a State where education, after Kerala, has been very good in numbers.  ASER Report was discussed earlier by several Members.  Pratham has done extensive reports in India and Maharashtra is one of the top performing States for several decades.  The challenge for teachers that they are facing today in Maharashtra is at a turning point.  Everybody has talked about qualified teachers.  Maharashtra definitely does have qualified teachers but I think we need to take our teachers in Maharashtra to the next level, which is not just about giving them degrees of qualification but bringing in awareness among the teachers about different challenges that today’s students are having. Sir, the same Government has looked at disabilities.  In the earlier Bill there were only seven disabilities.  This Government has come up with 21 disabilities which is a welcome step.  Out of these 21 disabilities, ten are directly related to learning challenges that children are having today.  I would take this opportunity to request the hon. HRD Minister that just giving them a degree is not good enough.  Sensitizing teachers is more important.  One of the examples is of Autism.     Today autism awareness is one of the flagship programmes that the Government of Maharashtra has taken. But, really how aware are we as a society of what an autistic kid is or any child who is dyslexic and dyscalculia? Just giving them a degree and telling them in four years you need to get this degree by rote learning is not really the solution. That is not the idea of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The whole message of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan is to make it an inclusive education to all. Right now, it is limited to only fourteen years. I think we really need to extend it. Shri Rudy was right here. But, the skilling that he has been doing through his Department, unless the child is at least twelfth standard, graduate and qualified, having that education of skill development and running such a big programme in India, is really not going to be connected. So, the Ministry of Human Resource Development has to bring in one more amendment in the Right to Education to extend it from 6-14 years to 6-18 years. I think that will really make the difference. I agree that it should be 21 years till graduation, but I guess one step at a time because it is going to have a large financial cost for the Government. Second thing is about teachers’ training. I come from a State where teachers’ training is something of which we are very proud of. There are times in Zila Parishad schools where one teacher, who is trained, goes to one training, comes back and then is sent to another training. So, the quality of teachers’ training is very important. It is wonderful to make legislations here. What Shri Sampath Ji has said, is very true, that we make legislations here, but are they totally implemented on the field? I would request the hon. Minister that qualifying them is only a part of the job, but skilling has to be genuinely inclusive. So, a child, who may be weak in English, may be weak in Maths or may be weak in Science, but it is the teacher who has to understand what the child is good at or what his or her strengths and weaknesses are. That really makes a good teacher. I will not take too much of hon. Minister’s time, but I would definitely insist the quality of teachers’ training is very important. After all, teaching is a process which is endless and it is not just about getting a degree. You have to constantly pursue this dream.  It is because that is what really builds the true nation and not the policies or legislations that are made here. So, I urge the hon. Minister to re-think at this and expand this course of learning. Thank you. श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार ( नालंदा ) : सभापति जी, आपने मुझे नःशुल्क और अनिवार्य बाल शिक्षा अधिकार संशोधन विधेयक, 2017 में चर्चा लेने का अवसर दिया, धन्यवाद।  सरकार का यह एक सकारात्मक कदम है, अच्छा कदम है। सर्व शिक्षा अभियान और शिक्षकों की कमी को दूर करने के लिए राज्य सरकारों ने अप्रशिक्षित शिक्षकों को नियुक्त कर लिया था, जिसके कारण कुछ कानूनी बाधाएं भी आ रही थीं। जब आरटीआई एक्ट लागू हुआ उस समय अप्रशिक्षित शिक्षक काफी ज्यादा भर्ती हुए, अब कानून बनने से उनके प्रशिक्षण और नियुक्ति की प्रक्रिया समान होगी। अप्रशिक्षित शिक्षक अपनी योग्यता पूरी कर ले और चार वर्ष का समय मिल सकता है, शिक्षकों में अच्छी गुणवत्ता होनी ही चाहिए तभी शिक्षा का स्तर बरकरार रहेगा। शिक्षण प्रक्रिया में सुधार होगा जिससे हमारे बच्चों को सीखने के मामले में सुधार होगा। विशे­षकर प्राथमिक शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में, जैसा आंकड़े देखने को मिल रहा है प्राथमिक शिक्षा में देश भर में करीब 66.31 लाख शिक्षक कार्यरत हैं उनमें से करीब 11 लाख शिक्षक अप्रशिक्षित है। अतः उनको प्रशिक्षित और योग्य बनाना महत्वपूर्ण कार्य है। अब प्राइवेट स्कूल में करीब डेढ़ करोड़ शिक्षक हैं उनमें काफी अप्रशिक्षित हैं इसलिए यहां कुछ परेशानियां होंगी क्योंकि उक्त शिक्षकों के ऊपर होने वाले व्यय का वहन कौन करेगा? सरकार को स्पष्ट नीति बनाने की आवश्यकता है नहीं तो प्राइवेट स्कूलों में कार्यरत अप्रशिक्षित शिक्षकों का प्रशिक्षण प्राप्त नहीं होगा। सभापति महोदय, देश में शिक्षा के स्तर में काफी गिरावट आ गई है। दिनोंदिन प्राथमिक शिक्षा अपनी गुणवत्ता खोती जा रही है। उसके लिए स्कूली शिक्षा प्रणाली और अध्यापकों की क्षमता में सुधार लाना अनिवार्य हो गया है। विशे­षकर सरकारी स्कूलों की हालत काफी दयनीय है। वैसे तो प्राइवेट स्कूल  काफी लंबे - चौड़े दावे करते हैं किंतु वे सभी शिक्षा को पाश्चात्य संस्कृति की ओर ले जा रहे हैं। अपनी सभ्यता, संस्कृति एवं विरासत से दूर होते जा रहे हैं।  यह चिंता का विषय है। अपना देश शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में विश्व गुरु का गौरव रखता था, उसमें नालंदा की भूमि का नाम आता है और यह ज्ञान की भूमि रही है। उसका अपना इतिहास है। लोग विश्व के कोने-कोने से भारत आते थे। खुदाई के दौरान नालंदा में जो साक्ष्य प्राप्त हुए हैं, वह अतुलनीय उदाहरण है। भारत की शिक्षा के प्रचार-प्रसार के लिए शिक्षक एवं गुरु विदेश जाते थे, जो कि अब नहीं हो रहा है। माननीय नीतिश जी ने फिर से नालंदा विश्वविद्यालय को जमीन देकर चालू करवाया है। राज्य सरकार बिहार में जो काम कर रही है, इसके लिए मैं माननीय मुख्यमंत्री जी को बधाई देता हूं कि उन्होंने जिस तरह से नवोदय स्कूल हर जिले में बनाया है, उसी तरह ट्रेनिंग स्कूल हर जिले में बनवाएं जिससे गुणवत्ता वाले टीचर से बच्चे पढ़ें, उनका भवि­ष्य उज्जवल हो और वे आगे बढ़ें। श्री राजेश रंजन ( मधेपुरा ) : माननीय सभापति जी, माननीय मंत्री जी एक तरफ मैन मेकिंग की कल्पना करते हैं, लेकिन मोरल एजुकेशन के बगैर, शारीरिक, आध्यात्मिक, मानसिक और बौद्धिक विकास संभव नहीं है, सम्पूर्ण विकास संभव नहीं है। मेरा विचार है कि पहली से सातवीं कक्षा तक कम्पलसरी मोरल एजुकेशन करनी चाहिए। यह एजुकेशन नैतिकता से जुड़ी है, जीवन के निर्माण से जुड़ी है, आपको इस पर गौर करना चाहिए, लेकिन इस पर गौर न करके हम लंबी बातें करते हैं। मेरा निवेदन है कि आप पहली से सातवीं क्लास तक मोरल एजुकेशन को कम्पलसरी कीजिए और इसके बगैर कोई बच्चा पास न करें। महोदय, सातवीं से बारहवीं क्लास तक शारीरिक, मानसिक और  बौद्धिक विकास के लिए गेम्स को कम्पलसरी कीजिए। जब तक एक्सट्रा करिकुलम के अंतर्गत संगीत और गेम्स को कम्पलसरी नहीं करेंगे तब तक शारीरिक रूप से विकास संभव नहीं हो पाएगा। मैं मंत्री जी से कहना चाहता हूं कि आप कौन सी एजुकेशन देना चाहते हैं? क्या आप साक्षरता वाली एजुकेशन देना चाहते हैं? क्या आप सुदामा और कृष्ण को एक साथ एजुकेशन दिलाना चाहते हैं? आप सुदामा और कृष्ण को एक साथ एजुकेशन देना चाहते हैं तो बताएं एमपी, एमएलए, मंत्री का बेटा सरकारी स्कूल में क्यों नहीं पढ़ता है ? आप इसे कम्पलसरी क्यों नहीं करते हैं ? जब तक एमपी, एमएलए, मंत्री, बीडीओ, इंगलिश बोलने वाले बड़े नेताओं के बच्चे सरकारी स्कूल में नहीं पढ़ेंगे, तब तक आप हिन्दुस्तान के 130 करोड़ लोगों के साथ नाइंसाफी करते रहेंगे। आप इसे कम्पलसरी कीजिए। आप मिड-डे मील आदि योजनाओं को ला रहे हैं। मिड-डे मील क्या है ? यह खैरात है, गरीबों के बच्चे सिर्फ खाना खाने जाते हैं। यदि पप्पू यादव, सुदामा और अंतिम व्यक्ति का बेटा एक ही स्कूल में पढ़ने लगेगा, आप सोचिए कि क्या स्थिति होगी ? आप कम्पलसरी और कॉमन एजुकेशन फ्री करना चाहते हैं तो मेरा कहना है कि फ्री कोई नहीं पढ़ता है, आप क्वालिटी बढ़ाइए। महोदय, देश के बाहर तीन, छः या आठ सालों बाद टीचर का एग्जाम होता है। क्या आप टीचरों का एग्जाम लेंगे ? यदि तीन साल बाद टीचर क्वालिफाई नहीं करता है तो क्या उसका डिमोशन करेंगे? यदि फिर तीसरी बार क्वालिफाई नहीं करता है तो क्या आप उसे बर्खास्त करेंगे? हिन्दुस्तान में बीएड और डीएड क्या है? डीएड है कि पैसा लेकर आओ, घर का जेवर बेचकर एडमिशन लो, कोई पढ़ाई नहीं और चुपचाप चले जाओ। हैड मास्टर वह बने जो एग्जाम पास करे और हर प्रिसिंपल का दस या बारह साल बाद एग्जाम होना चाहिए। आप उसे छः महीने छुट्टी दीजिए ताकि वह दूसरी जगह जाकर एजुकेशन ले सके। इसके बाद ही वह बच्चों के सुंदर भविष्य का निर्माण करेगा। महोदय, टीचर को किसी भी कार्य में भागीदार मत होने दीजिए। आप क्या करते हैं, आप जनसंख्या के काम में लगाते हैं। आप उसकी डय़ूटी चुनाव में लगा देते हैं। टीचर्स सिर्फ एजुकेशन देने के लिए हैं। टीचर डॉ सर्वपल्ली राधाकृ­ष्णन की तरह मानवतावादी होना चाहिए। टीचर व्यापारी, राजनीतिक नहीं होना चाहिए। टीचर सिर्फ हाई मोरल एजुकेशन के साथ प्रभावित होना चाहिए।...(व्यवधान) मैं टीचर की क्वांटिटी और क्वालिटी पर सिर्फ एक बात कहना चाहूंगा कि टीचर्स की तन्ख्वाह 50 हजार रुपये से कम नहीं होनी चाहिए। अगर आप उसे 50 हजार रुपये नहीं देंगे, तो वह बेसलैस काम करेगा। वह बच्चों का निर्माण न करके अलग काम करेगा। यदि आप टीचर्स को अच्छी तन्ख्वाह देंगे, तो आपको प्राइवेट एजुकेशन की जरूरत नहीं पड़ेगी।       आज बिहार शिक्षा के मामले में सबसे निचले पायदान पर है। सभापति महोदय, हमने आप लोगों से ही सीखा है। आपकी जब स्पीच होती थी, तब हम सुनने के लिए जाते थे। आपको याद होगा कि आप जब चौधरी चरण सिंह जी के साथ मेरे यहां जाते थे, तब हम आपको सुनने के लिए आते थे। आपको आश्चर्य होगा कि आज हमारे यहां बच्चे पढ़ते नहीं हैं। बिहार हिन्दुस्तान में सबसे निचले पायदान पर है। बिहार टीचर्स, स्कूल और कालेज के रूप में कोलैप्स कर चुका है। दुनिया बिहार से भारत को पहचानती थी। हम शून्य से लेकर शिखर तक पहुंचे, लेकिन आज बिहार की स्थिति बहुत खराब है। ...(व्यवधान) माननीय सभापति : राजेश रंजन जी, आप अपनी बात समाप्त कीजिए। श्री राजेश रंजन :   मैं अंत में कुछ प्वाइंट कहकर अपनी बात समाप्त कर रहा हूं। आप बीएड और डीएड की क्वालिटी को हायर कीजिए। आपने बच्चों के मन पर बायोलॉजी, मेथेमेटिक्स और कैमिस्ट्री थोप दी है कि इससे बाहर पढ़ाई नहीं है। उनके मन में जियोग्राफी और हिस्ट्री की पढ़ाई नहीं है। मेरा आपसे आग्रह है कि बच्चों को इस विज्ञान और गणित की मानसिकता से निकालिए। आप बच्चों को फ्रीडम देने की कोशिश कीजिए। आप बच्चों को गार्जियन और स्कूल के बस्तों से मत बांधिए। ...(व्यवधान) मैं अंत में सीबीएसई के बारे में कहना चाहता हूं। आप सीबीएसई का जो एग्जाम लेते हैं, वह उसी स्कूल में लेते हैं। इससे बच्चों के 98 और 100 प्रतिशत मार्क्स आते हैं। सीबीएसई के बारे में जांच करने की आवश्यकता है। जब किसी स्टेट के बोर्ड का ऐग्जाम बच्चा पास नहीं करता, तो सीबीएसई पैसे लेकर, उसी स्कूल में ऐग्जाम लेकर अपने बच्चों को प्रमोट करता है। मेरा आग्रह है कि सीबीएसई का ऐग्जाम दूसरे स्कूल में कंडक्ट होना चाहिए। SHRIMATI SUPRIYA SULE :  Sir, it is an important Bill.  I do not think we should rush on a subject like education.  I would request Shri Ananth Kumar on one thing. Friday is a Private Members’ day and it is the right of every hon. Member that we get and so, we may not take up such important Bills on Fridays.  The time of Private Members Bill is also being taken up and at the same time, we also want to speak on this important Bill. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Sir,  I also support the suggestion made by Shrimati Supriya Sule because it is a very important Bill though the amendment is very minor. I rise to support this Bill because I know that it is also fait accompli to the hon. Minister because there is no other option. But kindly consider that Right to Free and Compulsory Education to all children below the age of 14 years is a constitutional obligation as per the Directive Principles of State Policy.   Subsequently, in 2002, though it was a BJP period, it was a revolutionary change which took place.  A constitutional amendment, namely, the 86th Amendment took place by which the Directive Principles of State Policy had been incorporated and  primary universal and compulsory education has been made as a fundamental right.  I still appreciate that fact. I would like to say that 21 (a) is the article which we have incorporated. What is article 21? Article 21 is right to life and personal liberty. Article 21 is amended in order to incorporate 21 (a) in the Constitution, to provide right to free and compulsory education to all children between the ages of six and fourteen. But unfortunately that Act came into force only in the year 2009. That was during the UPA regime. It was another revolutionary change that took place when the UPA was in power. A big legislative change took place in the country in the year 2009 by which the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act came into force on 1st April, 2010. Now, we are in July 2017. As rightly stated by Shrimati Supriya Sule, this is a very important Bill. My first suggestion to the hon. Minister, Shri Javadekar as well as to Shri Ananth Kumar is to have a discussion on the implementation of the RTE Act since the last seven years. Kindly have a discussion. We are discussing all these communal issues, etc. Please have a short duration discussion on the implementation of the RTE Act . That is the need of the hour. That is my first suggestion. Coming to the actual position, by 31st March, 2015 every teacher in the primary school should possess the minimum and basic qualification. Now, we are extending the period to 31st March, 2019.  Why are the trainers not trained? How will the education system improve? How will the quality of education improve? The purpose of the RTE Act is not only to have access to education but also to have ‘quality education’. The right to life means not just to have right to life but it is right to have a ‘better life’ as enunciated by the Supreme Court in its judgement. Article 21 means right to have safe water, right to have better treatment, etc. Similarly, article 21 (a) is not a right only to have education, but it is also a right to have ‘quality education’. Are we able to protect the fundamental right as provided in the Constitution? According to me article 21 is violated by the respective State Governments. The respective State Governments are not able to train the trainers within the stipulated time of 31st December 2015 means they have violated the fundamental right of the citizens of those States. It is a constitutional obligation that is being violated by those State Governments. What is the reason? I would like to know from the hon. Minister as to which are the States that have complied with article 21 (a)? Which are the States that have demanded or sought exemption from this provision? You may kindly see that there are totally 66 lakh primary teachers. Out of which, 11 lakh teachers are still untrained. That means one-sixth of the teachers are still untrained. That means the Right to Education Act is only on paper and not in practice. That is the reality. That is why I am suggesting that you should have a discussion.  Why have the State Governments failed to provide training to the teachers? What is the reason? Seven years have elapsed. Now, we are saying that the date will be extended up to 31st March, 2019.  That means we are again violating article 21 (a) of the Constitution. Shri Hamid Ansari, His Excellency the hon. Vice President of India delivered a speech in a Stocktaking Convention on Implementation of the RTE Act.  I will just place on record the important points. His Excellency the Vice President of India has appreciated the RTE Act .  He had classified the challenges in regard to that. The first challenge is the quality of education. The education that is being provided is not up to the mark. … (Interruptions)  The second one is high rate of drop outs and out of school children. The third one is the absence of equity in education. All the three, that is quantity, quality and equality, have to be improved. The last point is the GDP contribution to education has to be increased to six per cent. With these points, I conclude. Thank you very much. डॉ. सत्यपाल सिंह ( बागपत ) : सभापति महोदय, आपने मुझे बोलने का समय दिया, इसके लिए मैं आपके प्रति आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। ...(व्यवधान) मैं आदरणीय मंत्री जी का बहुत-बहुत अभिनंदन करता हूं एवं इस बिल का समर्थन करता हूं। ...(व्यवधान) सभी कुछ हो रहा है, तरक्की के इस जमाने में, 

                             यह क्या गजब है कि आदमी इंसान नहीं बनता 

                             यह क्या गजब है कि आदमी इंसान नहीं बनता 

  

          शिक्षा का सबसे बड़ा उद्देश्य आदमी को इंसान बनाना है, लेकिन आज इस प्रकार से देश और समाज में अपराध बढ़ रहे हैं आतंकवाद की घटना बढ़ रही है, परिवार टूट रहे हैं, नशाखोरी बढ़ रही है, उससे लगता है कि हमारी मूलभूत शिक्षा में कहीं न कहीं कुछ गड़बड़ है। अगर शिक्षा में गड़बड़ है तो इसका मतलब है कि पढ़ाने वाले टीचर्स में कुछ गड़बड़ है, इसलिए उनकी ट्रेनिंग ठीक की जाए, इसके लिए मैं माननीय मंत्री जी का अभिनंदन करता हूं। मैं अपने साथियों की बातों को सुन रहा था। वर्ष 1874 में महर्­िष दयानंद ने लिखा कि चाहे राजकुमार हो या राजकुमारी हो, या दरिद्र की संतान हो, सभी को अनिवार्य रूप से नःशुल्क और समान शिक्षा की व्यवस्था होनी चाहिए। इस देश को लगभग 145 वर्ष लग गये, राइट टू एजुकेशन का कानून 2009 में लाये। पिछले 70 वर्षों में हमने जो सबसे बड़ी गलती की है, चाहे देश का विभाजन हुआ या भाषा के नाम पर राज्यों का विभाजन हुआ या जाति-उपजाति के नाम पर समाज का विभाजन हुआ, लेकिन इस देश को सबसे बड़ा नुकसान लॉर्ड मैकाले की शिक्षा पद्धति को ज्यों का त्यों अपनाने से हुआ है। इसलिए जब हम लोग पढ़ते हैं, जिन लोगों ने नहीं पढ़ा है, उन लोगों को यह पढ़ना चाहिए - ’द केस फार इंडिया’, लोक बिल डूरन्ट यह किताब वर्ष 1932 में लिखी गयी कि इस देश में जो एजुकेशन का सिस्टम था, देश में जो शिक्षा पद्धति थी, उसका इतना अच्छा आदर्श था, इसलिए मनु महाराज ऐसा कहते रहे कि 

एतद् देशः प्रसुतस्यः शकासाद् अग्रजनमन 

                                     स्वं स्वं चिरत्रं संक्षरेण पृथ्व्यां सर्वमानवः । सारी दुनिया के लोग, अगर किसी को शिक्षा लेना है, किसी को जीवन में आगे बढ़ना है तो उनको भारत देश में आकर शिक्षा लेनी चाहिए। हम लोग शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में इतना पीछे क्यों चले गये, इसके पीछे बहुत कारण है लेकिन आज हम जो बिल लाये हैं, उसका समर्थन करते हुए, मैं सुझाव देना चाहता हूं। राइट टू कम्पलसरी एजुकेशन का हमारा कानून बना है, इसका कोई मतलब नहीं है। यहां ऐसे हजारों लाखों परिवार हैं, जिनके बच्चे स्कूलों में नहीं जाते हैं। जब तक हमारा कानूना ऐसा नहीं होगा कि जो मां-बाप अपने बच्चों को स्कूल नहीं भेजेंगे, उन पर दंड लगेगा, फाइन होगा, उनको पनिशमेंट मिलेगा तब तक हमारी शिक्षा बेहतर नहीं हो सकेगी। इस प्रकार की शिक्षा पद्धति इस देश में थी। मैं कोट करना चाहता हूं कि 

कन्यानां सप्रदानं च कुमाराणां च रक्षणं 

          यह राज्य नियम होना चाहिए, यह गवर्नमेंट का कानून होना चाहिए कि जो मां-बाप पांच वर्ष से आठ वर्ष के बाद बच्चों को स्कूल में नहीं भेजेंगे, उनको दंड दिया जायेगा। क्या हम इस बात को स्वीकार कर सकते हैं कि इसे कानून के अंदर लाया जाये तभी वास्तव में कम्पलसरी एजुकेशन का सपना साकार हो सकता है। दूसरे माननीय सदस्यों ने कहा है कि एक एजुकेशन सर्वे किया गया उसमें कहा गया है कि हमारे देश में जो पब्लिक स्कूल्स और गवर्नमेंट स्कूल्स चलते हैं, उनमें प्रति बच्चे के ऊपर खर्च गवर्नमेंट स्कूल्स में ज्यादा होता है और पब्लिक स्कूल्स में उससे कम होता है, लेकिन हमारी शिक्षा का स्टैंडर्ड बहुत कम है। इस पर बहुत गंभीर रूप से विचार करने की जरूरत है। मैं दो-तीन महत्वपूर्ण सुझाव देना चाहता हूं कि वर्ष 2006 में इलाहाबाद हाई कोर्ट ने कहा था कि अगर हम वास्तव में सरकारी स्कूलों का स्टैंडर्ड बढ़ाना चाहते हैं तो सभी सरकारी अधिकारियों के बच्चों को उन स्कूल्स में पढ़ना चाहिए। जो विकसित देश हैं, वहां पर जो एरिया स्कूल्स हैं, वहां के बच्चे केवल उसी स्थानीय स्कूल्स में पढ़ सकते हैं। जब तक हम लोग ऐसा नहीं करेंगे तब तक हमारा स्टैंडर्ड नहीं बढ़ेगा। माननीय हाई कोर्ट के उस आदेश के खिलाफ उस समय की यूपी गवर्नमेंट माननीय सुप्रीम कोर्ट चली गयी। सभापति महोदय, विकास का एक यह भी पैमाना है कि जब हम सभी लोग अपने बच्चों को सरकारी स्कूल में भेजने के लिए तैयार होंगे, इसका मतलब है कि कुछ विकास हो रहा है।इसके साथ-साथ मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि हमारी जो शिक्षा है उसमें मस्ति­ष्क का ज्ञान भी देना चाहिए, रीजनिंग भी देनी चाहिए और हृदय में दयाभाव और बांटने की क्षमता भी देनी चाहिए और हाथ में स्किल भी देनी चाहिए। क्या हमारी शिक्षा पद्धति आज इस लक्ष्य को पूरा कर रही है, यह देखने की बात है। महात्मा गांधी जी ने शिक्षा को Head, Heart and hands की आवश्यकताओं को पूरा करने का साधन माना था। श्री गौरव गोगोई ( कलियाबोर ):सभापति जी, मैं नःशुल्क और अनिवार्य बाल शिक्षा के अधिकार के संशोधन पर चर्चा में भाग लेने के लिए खड़ा हुआ हूं। मंत्री जी, देखने में यह बिल साधारण लगता है, जो डेडलाइन वर्ष 2015 की है, उसे हम चार साल और बढ़ाने जा रहे हैं। अगर इस बिल में चार साल का समय न देखें तो आपको एक ऐतिहासिक काम करने का मौका मिल रहा है। आज शिक्षा के क्षेत्र में अध्ययन करने वाले लोग हैं, वे यही कहते हैं कि यदि भारत को 21वीं सदी की पावर बनाना है, तो हमें क्वालिटी शिक्षा पर ध्यान देना चाहिए और शिक्षकों के प्रशिक्षण पर ध्यान देना चाहिए। मंत्री जी ने अपने भाषण में कहा कि आप आनलाइन सिस्टम द्वारा जो अनक्वालिफाइड टीचर्स हैं, उन्हें क्वालिफाइड करना चाहते हैं। मेरा आपसे विनम्र निवेदन है कि आप आनलाइन सिस्टम पर इतने निर्भर न हों। अगर आनलाइन सिस्टम इतना ही बेहतर होता, तो हमारे बच्चे आज स्कूलों में पढ़ाई न करके वैबसाइट पर पढ़ाई करते। आज हमारे बच्चे स्कूलों में जा रहे हैं और शिक्षकों से शिक्षा प्राप्त कर रहे हैं, तो हमारे जो अध्यापक हैं, उन्हें भी ऐसी अच्छी व्यवस्था चाहिए, जो उन्हें बीएड कालेज में प्राप्त होती है। आप बीएड कालेजिज की संख्या इस बिल के माध्यम से कितनी बढ़ाने जा रहे हैं, इस बारे में आप बताएं? मेरे जिले में बीएड कालेज है और वह भी बीएड कालेज इनसर्विस टीचर्स को पढ़ा रहा है, प्रीसर्विस टीचर्स को मौका ही नहीं मिल रहा है। इस प्रकार की जो पद्धति लाने की बात कर रहे हैं कि अनक्वालिफाइड टीचर्स को क्वालिफाइड करना है और सारे बीएड कालेज इनसर्विस टीचर्स को पढ़ा रहे हैं, प्रीसर्विस टीचर्स को मौका नहीं मिल रहा है, तो कैसे हम बच्चों को क्वालिटी शिक्षा दे सकेंगे। महोदय, मेरा दूसरा निवेदन है कि हमें शिक्षकों की अटेंडेंस पर ध्यान देना चाहिए। हम देख रहे हैं कि सरकारी स्कूलों के शिक्षकों की सैलरी बढ़ चुकी है, लेकिन जो बात डॉ. सत्यपाल जी ने कही है कि जिस तरह से टीचर्स की परफोर्मेंस बढ़नी चाहिए, वह नहीं बढ़ रही है। आज बच्चों का इनरोलमेंट कम होता जा रहा है। बच्चे मिड डे मील खा रहे हैं, खेलने जा रहे हैं, लेकिन क्लास रूम में शिक्षक नहीं हैं। जैसे हम आज बच्चों को उनकी उपस्थिति के भी नम्बर देते हैं, उसी तरह से शिक्षकों के लिए भी व्यवस्था करनी चाहिए। जिस दिन शिक्षक क्लास रूम में नहीं जाता है, उसकी जानकारी बच्चों के माँ-बाप के पास जाए और जिस दिन माँ-बाप और टीचर्स की मीटिंग का दिन होता है, उस दिन बच्चों के अभिभावक टीचर्स से पूछ सकें कि मेरा बच्चा तो स्कूल आता है, लेकिन आप स्कूल क्यों नहीं आते हैं। आप शिक्षकों की अटेंडेंस पर ध्यान दीजिए और ऐसा सिस्टम बनाइए। आपकी तरफ से भी यह बात आई है कि क्लास-9 का मैथ जो  टीचर पढ़ाता है, उसे क्लास-2 का मैथ भी नहीं आता है। टीचर्स का प्रशिक्षण ऐसा होना चाहिए कि हर कक्षा के बच्चों को पढ़ा सके। आज पढ़ाना भी एक हुनर है। ऐसा नहीं है कि टीचर को एक कर्रिकुलम दे दिया है कि तीन सौ दिन में यह चैप्टर खत्म करना है और उसके बाद बच्चों को पास कराना है। टीचिंग भी एक हुनर है। आप इस तरफ ध्यान दीजिए, ऐसा हुनर बीएड कालेज में ही आ सकता है। महोदय, मैं उत्तर पूर्वांचल से आता हूं। नेशनल कर्रिकुलम फ्रेम वर्क 2005 में लिखा गया था कि शिक्षा का उद्देश्य यह होना चाहिए कि भारत की सभ्यता और भारत की संस्कृति को हम क्लास रूम में बच्चों के बीच प्रदान कर पाएं। उत्तर पूर्वांचल की एक भूमिका है, एक मर्यादा है। आज जो चीजें हमें बहुत प्रिय हैं, वे क्लास रूम में नहीं पढ़ाई जा रही हैं। मेरा विनम्र निवेदन है और हम बहुत सालों से कह रहे हैं कि असम के महापुरु­ष श्री श्रीमंता शंकरदेव के आदर्श हमारे कर्रिकुलम में होने चाहिए। असम और उत्तर पूर्वांचल की स्वाधीनता के संग्राम में क्या भूमिका है, यह भी पढ़ाया जाना चाहिए। क्या हम लोगों ने स्वाधीनता संग्राम की लड़ाई में हिस्सा नहीं लिया था, लेकिन आप बता दीजिए कि किस स्कूल की किताब में हमारे कौन-से स्वाधीनता संग्राम सैनानी का नाम लिखा है। हम चाहते हैं कि नागालैंड की रानी जी हों या असम के कुशल कोंवर हों, इनके बारे में और उत्तर पूर्वांचल के स्वाधीनता संग्रामियों के नाम हमारे हमारे बच्चे सीबीएससी स्कूलों में पढ़ें और जान पाएं। हम भी भारत का हिस्सा हैं, हमारे बच्चे जब आगरा में ताजमहल देखने के लिए जाते हैं, तो गार्ड उनसे उनके आइडेंटिटीकार्ड पूछता है। आज देश में ऐसी अवस्था क्यों है, क्योंकि देश में शिक्षा का माहौल ऐसा है। महोदय, अंत में मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि आपसे पूर्व मंत्री महोदया ने वर्ष 2015 में असम में जाकर घो­षणा की थी कि असम में 14 नए नवोदय विद्यालय खोले जाएंगे। हमने उसका स्वागत किया। यह बात ‘टाइम्स आफ इंडिया’ में छापी गई, असम के अखबार में भी यह छपा था। आज घो­षणा किए दो साल का समय हो गया है, लेकिन एक भी नवोदय विद्यालय नहीं बनाया गया है। हमारा विनम्र निवेदन है कि केंद्र सरकार के केंद्रीय मंत्री की बात में वजन होना चाहिए। अगर मंत्री जी ने कहा कि 14 नवोदय विद्यालय खोले जाएंगे, तो जरूर खोले जाने चाहिए। मेरा कहना है कि भारत कृषि से आगे ज्ञान की दिशा में चला गया है और ज्ञान एक गुरु ही प्रदान कर सकता है, ज्ञान एक शिक्षक ही प्रदान कर सकता है। श्री दुष्यंत चौटाला ( हिसार ) : सभापति महोदय, आज सरकार नःशुल्क और अनिवार्य बाल शिक्षा का अधिकार (संशोधन) विधेयक, 2017 लेकर आयी है। जिन शिक्षकों के पास ऑफिशियल डिग्री नहीं है, उनको सरकार दो साल का एक्सटेंशन इस बिल के माध्यम से दे रही है। आज चार साल इस बिल को आये हुए हो गये हैं, उसके बाद भी आज हमें एक्सटेंशन देनी पड़ रही है। मेरी उम्र के जो युवा नीट क्वालिफाइड होते हैं, जो सी-टेट या एस-टेड एग्जाम्स क्वालिफाइड होते हैं, कहीं न कहीं इस बिल के माध्यम से उनके अधिकारों को छीना जा रहा है। संस्कृत के शास्त्री-डिग्री वाले शिक्षक हैं, उनको मौका भी दिया जा रहा है कि वे इस बिल के माध्यम से अपनी शिक्षा को ग्रहण करें। आने वाले समय में वे इस कोर्स को सिखा पाएं और ट्रेनिंग लेकर उन बच्चों को प्रौपर्ली शिक्षित कर पाएँ। राइट टू एजुकेशन की बात की जाती है। मैं माननीय मंत्री जी से पूछना चाहता हूँ कि क्या आज हम आरटीई को पूरी तरह से इम्प्लीमेंट कर पाए हैं? इससे बड़ा दुख होता है। आज बड़े-बड़े स्कूल्स खुल गये, लोगों ने इसे एक उद्योग बना लिया, लेकिन आज उन स्कूल्स में बच्चों को मुफ्त में शिक्षित नहीं किया जाता है। माननीय मंत्री जी सदन को बताएं कि क्या अंबानी, बिड़ला और गोयंका जैसे स्कूल्स में अब तक भारत सरकार या किसी भी प्रदेश की सरकारों ने राइट टू एजुकेशन को पूरी तरह से इम्प्लीमेंट करवा पाया है? महोदय, मैं एक इंट्रेस्टिंग फैक्ट बताऊँगा कि हरियाणा जैसे प्रदेश में आज एक भी रेगुलर कम्प्युटर टीचर नहीं है। कैसे हम प्रधानमंत्री के डिजिटल इंडिया के सपने को पूरा कर पाएँगे? जब तक हम इंफ्रास्ट्रक्चर को क्वालिटी पॉइंट ऑफ व्यू से डवलप नहीं कर पाएँगे, तो पूरी तरह से हम राइट टू एजुकेशन नहीं दे पाएँगे। अंत में, मैं एक बात बताना चाहूँगा, मैंने इसे मंत्री जी के संज्ञान में भी लाने की कोशिश की थी। राइट टू एजुकेशन आर्टिकल 21 का एक हिस्सा है। आर्टिकल 21 में राइट टू लाइफ है। वह हमें शिक्षा का अधिकार भी देता है। हरियाणा सरकार ने एक गजट नोटिफिकेशन इश्यु करके डायरेक्टोरेट ऑफ हाइयर एजुकेशन से एक नोटिफिकेशन निकलवाई है कि यदि कोई 700 दिन स्कूल में नहीं पढ़ता है, तो उसे कॉलेज में एडमिशन नहीं दी जाएगी। मैं मंत्री जी के संज्ञान में इस बात को लाया था। अभी तक प्रदेश के हजारों बच्चे ऐसे हैं, जो कॉलेज में एडमिशन लेने गये, तो ऑन-लाइन प्रक्रिया होने के कारण 730 दिनों से अधिक का गैप होने पर उनके फॉर्म को स्वीकृत नहीं किया गया। मैं आपसे आग्रह करता हूँ कि आप प्रदेश सरकार से बात करके इस समस्या का समाधान करें ताकि उन बच्चों को भी कॉलेजों में एडमिशन मिल सके। अपनी इन्हीं बातों के साथ मैं इस बिल का समर्थन करता हूँ। श्री भगवंत मान ( संगरूर ): माननीय सभापति महोदय, आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। ‘राइट टू एजुकेशन’ बहुत ही गंभीर विषय है। चूँकि सीमित समय है, इसलिए मैं अपने कुछ महत्वपूर्ण प्वाइंट्स माननीय मंत्री जी के सामने रखना चाहूँगा। आज हर राज्य में टीचर्स की कमी है। यह पूरे देश की समस्या है। मैं पंजाब की बात करता हूँ। पंजाब में टीचर्स की भर्ती के लिए होने वाला ‘टीचर्स एलिजिबिलटी टेस्ट’ बहुत ही मुश्किल एग्जाम है। वह आई.ए.एस लेवल का एग्जाम है। पंजाब में आज ‘टैट’ पास टीचर्स हड़तालें करने को मजबूर हैं। वहाँ टीचर्स के चौदह हजार पद खाली पड़े हैं। इन सबके कारण पंजाब में एलिजिबल टीचर्स, जो कि बी.एड. और बाकी सब्जेक्ट्स के टेस्ट्स भी पास किए हुए है, धरने और हड़तालें दे रहे हैं। वे पानी की टंकियों पर चढ़कर स्वंय को आग लगा रहे हैं। आज एजुकेशन में होने वाले ड्रॉप-आउट के बहुत से कारण हैं। इसके कई सोशल कारण भी हैं। एक प्राइमरी स्कूल से दूसरे मिडिल स्कूल तक का गैप बहुत ज्यादा है। मिडिल स्कूल किसी दूसरे गाँव में है। उनके बीच 7-8 किलोमीटर का गैप है। इसके लिए क्या कोई शटल सर्विस या किसी बस का प्रावधान नहीं किया जा सकता है, जो बच्चों को इन स्कूलों तक छोड़कर आए? यहाँ तक कि गर्ल्स स्टूडेंट्स भी बसों के पीछे लटक कर स्कूल जाती हैं या फिर उनको किसी से राइड माँगनी पड़ती है। यह उनके लिए अनसेफ है। इस कारण उनके पेरेन्ट्स बहुत सी इंटेलिजेन्ट लड़कियों को भी स्कूल से निकाल लेते हैं, क्योंकि उन्हें पढ़ाई से ज्यादा अपनी इज्जत प्यारी है। जब ऐसी कोई घटना होती है, तो उससे दूसरे बच्चों के पेरेन्ट्स भी डरते हैं। इसके लिए कोई प्रावधान अवश्य होना चाहिए, जिससे हर बच्चा स्कूल जाए और सेफली अपने घर वापस आए। मैं अब मिड-डे मील के बारे में कहना चाहूँगा। सरकारी स्कूल के बच्चे सिर्फ रीसेज़ की वेट करते हैं, क्योंकि वे बच्चे घर से ब्रेकफास्ट कर के नहीं जाते हैं। जब आधी छुट्टी होती है, तब उनको खाना मिलता है। उसमें सिर्फ यह न हो कि जिन्हें खाना मिलता है, वही बच्चे स्कूल जाते हैं। मुझे एक पेरेन्ट्स मिले थे। उन्होंने मुझे बताया कि सरकारी स्कूल में आज हालात यह हैं कि किताब और कापी यदि घर पर भूल भी जाते हो, तो कोई दिक्कत नहीं है, बस कटोरी और चम्मच जरूरत साथ लेकर जाना। टीचर्स की वोटिंग या इधर-उधर के काम जैसे जनगणना आदि में डय़ूटी लगाई जाती है। वे बच्चे अनसेफ बिल्डिंग्स में पढ़ रहे हैं। वहाँ पी.टी.आई और टी.टी.आई. टीचर्स नहीं हैं। वहाँ बच्चों के खेलने के लिए भी कोई प्रावधान नहीं है। अतः मैं चाहूँगा कि वहाँ क्वॉलिटी ऑफ एजुकेशन को अप किया जाए। आपका बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। श्री प्रकाश जावड़ेकर : आज यहाँ पर बहुत अच्छी चर्चा हुई है। सोलह सदस्यों ने यहाँ चर्चा की है। प्रोफेसर थॉमस साहब, श्री जगदम्बिका पाल, अरविंद सावंत जी, श्री भर्तृहरि महताब, श्री जैदेव गल्ला, श्री बलका सुमन, डॉ. ए.सम्पत, श्री रेड्डी, श्रीमती सुप्रिया सुले, श्री कौशलेन्द्र कुमार, श्री राजेश रंजन, श्री एन.के.प्रेमचन्द्रन, डॉ. सत्यपाल सिंह, श्री गौरव गोगोई, श्री दुष्यंत चौटाला और श्री भगवंत मान ने बहुत अच्छे सुझाव दिए हैं। सबने इस बिल को सपोर्ट किया है। मैं इसके लिए सभी को धन्यवाद देता हूँ। आपने जो अमेन्डमेन्ट दिया है, वह भी सपोर्ट के लिए ही दिया है। एक मुद्दा प्रमुखता से उभरकर आया है। सरकारी शिक्षा दी जा रही है, उसका विस्तार हो रहा है और उस पर पैसा भी खर्च हो रहा है, लेकिन उसकी क्वॉलिटी कैसे सुधरेगी। बहुत से माननीय सदस्यों ने यह माँग की कि इसकी गुणवत्ता कैसे बढ़ाई जा सकती है, इसके लिए अलग से चर्चा हो। मैं सदन में चर्चा करने के लिए तैयार हूँ और यदि सदन के बाहर भी माननीय सदस्यों को ‘How to improve quality of education’ पर चर्चा करनी है, तो हम इसके लिए क्वॉलिटी डायलॉग भी निश्चित करेंगे। इसका दूसरा महत्वपूर्ण भाग भी है। इस मुद्दे को श्री गौरव गोगोई ने भी उठाया है। अब नई टैक्नोलॉजी आई है, जिसके जरिए ऑन-लाइन शिक्षा दी जा रही है, यह कितनी सार्थक होगी? इसके लिए कॅन्टेक्ट टू कॉन्टेक्ट चाहिए या नहीं चाहिए। यह इन दोनों का मिश्रण है। आपने कहा है कि आपके राज्य में एक ही बी.एड. कॉलेज है। वह सभी शिक्षकों को भर्ती नहीं कर सकता है। इसी अपवाद के कारण वहाँ एक्सटेंशन करना पड़ा था। आप सभी जानते हैं कि ‘एडेक्स’ और इस प्रकार के बाकी सारे कोर्सेज़, सार्थक कोर्सेज़ हैं। लाखों की तादाद में लोग इन कोर्सेज़ को सीख रहे हैं और इनके सर्टिफिकेट्स प्राप्त कर रहे हैं। देश के सबसे अच्छे प्राध्यापक वहाँ लैक्चर देंगे। वहाँ मैटिरियल भी होगा, वहाँ टय़ूटोरियल भी होगा, और वहाँ इंटरेक्शन भी होगा। एक ऐप होगा, जिसके माध्यम से लोग अपने सवाल पूछ सकेंगे। वे हर सप्ताह आकर लोगों की शंकाओं का निर्सन भी करेंगे। जो काम स्टडी सेन्टर्स में जाकर होता था, अब वह काम ऑन-लाइन होगा। यह केवल ऑन-लाइन ही नहीं, बल्कि डी.टी.एच. के 32 चैनलों पर चलेगा। समझिए, कि यह बी.एड. का कोर्स 8 भाषाओं में चलेगा, तो यह 8 चैनलों पर दिखाया जाएगा।  यह उतने चैनल्स पर चलेगा और वह दिन में तीन-चार बार रिपीट होगा तो वह अपनी पसंद से दिन में एक बार, दो बार एक पाठ पढ़ सकता है, देख सकता है। वह सिखा रहा है, पढ़ा रहा है तो उसको थोड़ा लगाव तो है, नहीं तो वह नहीं सिखाएगा। ऐसी जॉब में कौन रहेगा। इसका ट्रैकिंग भी होगा, अब technically it is feasible, क्योंकि वह सर्वर का एक्सेज़ हमारे पास है। इस चीज़ की इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ट्रैकिंग भी होगी कि लोग कितना पढ़ रहे हैं, कितना पाठ कर रहे हैं, कितना टय़ूटोरियल दे रहे हैं। हर साल 12 दिन का एक शिविर भी होगा, जिसमें हर ब्लॉक या जिला स्तर पर शिक्षक इकट्ठा रहेंगे और उनके सामने अध्यापक आकर question to question जो भी face to face करना है, वह भी करेंगे, नहीं तो दो साल में पूरा नहीं होगा। दो साल में पूरा करने का ठान लिया है। इसके लिए तंत्र ज्ञान विकसित है। बाकी भी बहुत सारे मुद्दे उठे - आउट ऑफ स्कूल चिल्ड्रेन से लेकर मिड-डे-मील तक, लेकिन आज मैं सारा कवर नहीं करूंगा, क्योंकि दूसरे भी वि­षय हैं। डिटेंशन का बिल भी आने वाला है। ‘प्रथम’ के 5वीं और 8वीं कक्षा में छात्रों का सर्वे, जिसका सबने उल्लेख किया, ऐसी स्थिति नहीं आनी चाहिए। इसके लिए हर साल उसको जो लर्निंग आउटकम्स की प्राप्ति होनी चाहिए, वह अब डिफाइन किया गया है। उसका सर्वे भी होगा और 5वीं व 8वीं में मार्च में परीक्षा होगी। यदि स्टूडेंट फेल हुआ तो उसको दूसरा अवसर मई में मिलेगा और यदि मई में भी फेल होता है तो उसी क्लास में डिटेन करने के लिए आपके सामने एक नया बिल आएगा, तब उस पर चर्चा करेंगे। इसलिए मुझे इतना ही कहना है कि आज शिक्षकों को जो यह लास्ट अवसर दे रहे हैं कि दो साल में आपको पढ़ना ही है और उसकी सारी व्यवस्था भी कर रहे हैं। वह ऑफ लाइन भी है और ऑन लाइन भी है। इस सारी व्यवस्था के लिए आपका समर्थन चाहूंगा। श्री गौरव गोगोई :  अटेंडेंस के लिए भी बता दीजिए। श्री प्रकाश जावड़ेकर :टीचर्स की अटेंडेंस के लिए मणिपुर ने भी बहुत कार्य किया। कुछ जगह बायोमैट्रिक किया व कुछ जगह दो-तीन और उपयोग किए। राजस्थान ने बहुत अच्छा प्रयोग किया, क्योंकि प्रॉक्सी टीचर की भी बात आयी तो जो सही शिक्षक लगे हैं। उनके अच्छे फोटोज़ स्कूल में लगाए हैं और उस पर लिखा है ‘हमारे आदरणीय गुरुजन’ अब इस पर कोई ऑब्जेक्ट तो नहीं कर सकता। वह कोई पुलिस स्टेशन जैसे फोटोज़ नहीं लगाए हैं। अच्छे फोटोज़ लगाए हैं। वह भी एक तरीका है। दूसरा तरीका यह है कि एक टैब से सारे स्कूल के टीचर्स और स्टूडेंट्स का उसी स्कूल के कैंपस में जब वह 50 फीट के घेरे में होते हैं, तभी उनका अटेंडेंस लगता है। यह एक नया प्रोजेक्ट तैयार है। मणिपुर ने इसे सक्सेसफुली किया है। सभी राज्यों में विस्तार करेंगे। आपने बहुत सारे विषय निकाले हैं, उसको करेंगे। यूएसडीएस के डाटा के बारे में हुआ, के.वी.के. विस्तार के बारे में हुआ, ड्रॉप आउट के बारे में हुआ। जो मुद्दे उठाए हैं इन सभी मुद्दों की एक विस्तृत टिप्पणी भी आपको देंगे। ताकि यह डायलॉग बना रहे और चलता रहे। मुझे इतनी खुशी है कि शिक्षा की गुणवत्ता के सुधार की जितनी भी हम चर्चा करेंगे, उसी से इस देश की शिक्षा सुधरेगी। मैं सभी सदस्यों से अपील करूंगा कि आपके क्षेत्र, मैं भी जाऊंगा, जैसे एक सदस्य ने कहा कि मिनिस्टर का without giving notice किसी स्कूल में जाना, वैसे ही आप भी अपनी कॉन्स्टीटय़ूएंसी में सभी लोग शिक्षा की गुणवत्ता के संबंध में जाकर कार्य करें। आप टीचर के ट्रांस्फर वगैरह जैसे काम मत कीजिए, उसकी बजाय ये काम हम करें तो गुणवत्ता सुधरेगी। यही मेरा आह्वान है।...(व्यवधान) श्री भगवंत मान : मेरा एक सजेशन है। माननीय सभापति : आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) श्री भगवंत मान : जैसे स्टूडेंट ऑफ द मंथ प्रोग्राम है। श्री प्रकाश जावड़ेकर : आपका सुझाव अच्छा है। हमारे यहां ऐसे सभी सुझावों का स्वागत है।...(व्यवधान) श्री भगवंत मान : इससे बच्चों को इनकरेज मिलता है। श्री प्रकाश जावड़ेकर : मान जी, मैं आपको बुलाऊंगा। सबको बहुत-बहुत धन्यवाद। इस बिल को पास करने में सहयोग करें। माननीय सभापति :अब विधेयक पर हम खंडश : विचार करेंगे। श्री एन.के.प्रेमचंद्रन, क्या आप मूव कर रहे हैं? Clause 2                 Amendment of Section 23 SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): I was under the impression that it is from the date of the original Act. It is a misled amendment which I have proposed. So I am not moving that amendment. SHRI BHARTRUHARI MAHTAB ( CUTTACK ): I am moving this amendment because I did not get sufficient answer. I beg to move :