MediaNama’s Take: The US aims to control AI technology and become a global leader in the AI world, as reflected in the sentiment of America’s AI Action Plan. While the US opposes AI models from “adversary nations”, claiming them as authoritarian and promoting censorship, Donald Trump follows a similar path by ordering the removal of references to misinformation, climate change, and DEI.

This directive contradicts existing responsible AI frameworks worldwide, which promote cultural representation and inclusion in AI systems. It can also increase friction among nations due to the lack of a unified ethical policy. To illustrate an example, if an Indian user asks US-based AI models about abortion, how would the models respond? The United States has tightened reproductive rights after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. In this context, would the AI models lead the answers to reflect “American values,” or would they align with local culture and laws? How will AI companies ensure moral consistency for all users without bias?

While the US-based OpenAI’s ChatGPT has the most user base in India, global cooperation and coordination are very important to the existing businesses. The US has a strong, desperate desire to dominate the AI market. It is justified in seeking secure AI systems to defend itself and AI infrastructure against cyber exploitation by enemy nations. However, this need for secure AI systems and the urgency to be a global AI leader must be balanced. AI innovation should not be used as an easy excuse to bypass necessary regulations, including environmental clearances.

US President Donald Trump has passed three executive orders and unveiled America’s AI Action Plan , a document with policy recommendations to help the nation achieve “global AI dominance.” The new policy comes after Trump replaced an executive order passed by President Biden in 2023.

This AI Action Plan comes at a moment when multiple American AI companies are partnering with the US government, especially with the defence and military departments. For example, OpenAI is leading the government efforts with initiatives like “ OpenAI for Government.” Anthropic and Google also have deals with the Department of Defense to support AI systems for national security and intelligence. Similarly, Elon Musk’s xAI also partnered to offer generative AI for defense purposes, while Palantir , often through Accenture Federal Services, integrates AI-driven analytics into federal operations. Whereas, Scale AI aids in evaluating and adopting AI across agencies.

The AI Action Plan also focuses largely on using AI technologies in US defence and to strengthen AI infrastructure, including datacenters and manufacturing semiconductors. It offers strict export restrictions against non-US allied nations, emphasising on denying access to advanced technology to the adversary nations. At the same time, the policy also aims to ease a lot of regulations within the US that can hinder AI innovation.

In the name of encouraging AI innovation, Trump’s latest policy aims to encourage AI innovation by directing NIST to deprioritise misinformation in its AI Risk Management Framework. The policy also instructs federal agencies not to procure AI models with “ideological biases.” It orders to eliminate the references to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) and climate change, arguing that this is necessary to prevent social engineering agendas.

“As our global competitors race to exploit these technologies, it is a  national security imperative for the United States to achieve and maintain unquestioned and unchallenged global technological dominance. To secure our future, we must harness the full power of American innovation.” – Donald Trump in his Statement on AI Action Plan

In the USA, the President can issue legally binding executive orders to exercise executive power by directing federal agencies and officers on how to implement laws and carry out their functions and duties.

As part of America’s AI Action Plan, Donald Trump has passed the following executive orders to achieve the President’s vision of “global AI dominance.”

Trump signed this order to discourage the procurement of AI models which are ideologically biased towards “diversity, equity, and inclusion” (DEI). As AI will be used in learning new skills and to consume information, the executive order says that these can “distort the quality and accuracy of the output.”

“In the AI context, DEI includes the suppression or distortion of factual information about race or sex; manipulation of racial or sexual representation in model outputs; incorporation of concepts like critical race theory, transgenderism, unconscious bias, intersectionality, and systemic racism; and discrimination on the basis of race or sex,” reads the order. The order also claims that DEI-favoured AIs displace the commitment to truth in favour of preferred outcomes.

Trump ordered the easing of federal regulatory burdens to accelerate the construction of AI datacenters. This order includes enabling the administration to use federally owned land for the fast and efficient development of datacenters.

Revoking the earlier executive order passed in January 2025 ,  this order directs the Secretary of Commerce to consult with the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to launch initiatives to provide financial support for Qualifying Projects.

The Secretaries of Defense, Interior, Commerce, or Energy can designate a company’s datacenter “Qualifying Project,” if it meets the following requirements:

Within 10 days of the order’s issuance, each relevant agency must identify to the Council on Environmental Quality any categorical exclusions established or adopted under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The order aims to facilitate the construction of Qualifying Projects through these exclusions.

To decrease international dependence on AI technologies developed by their adversaries, Trump passed an executive order to ensure that American AI technologies and governance models are adopted by the US’s allies and to secure their technological dominance.

Within 90 days of the order’s issuance, the Secretary of Commerce is directed to consult the Secretary of State and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to establish and implement the American AI Exports Program to support the development and deployment of ‘full-stack AI export packages from the United States.’ This refers to complete, end-to-end solutions of AI technologies developed and packaged for export to other countries. Full-stack means that it includes all layers or components required to make the AI technology functional, from the infrastructure (like data centers) and hardware (like chips, servers, and accelerators) to the software and applications.

The AI Action Plan also focuses largely on using AI technologies in US defence and to strengthen AI infrastructure, including data centers and manufacturing semiconductors. It offers strict export restrictions against non-US allied nations, emphasising on denying access to advanced technology to the adversary nations. At the same time, the policy also orders to ease a lot of regulations within the US that can hinder AI innovation.

In the name of encouraging AI innovation, Trump’s latest policy aims to encourage AI innovation by directing NIST to deprioritize misinformation in its AI Risk Management Framework. The policy also instructs federal agencies not to procure AI models with “ideological biases.” It orders to eliminate the references to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) and climate change, arguing that this is necessary to prevent social engineering agendas.

The AI Action Plan calls for AI models, particularly those procured by the US federal government, to preserve and uphold free speech. It also directs agencies to deprioritise and to remove references to “misinformation” from existing risk management frameworks.

While acknowledging that it is the right of the developer to release a certain model as closed-source or open-source, it suggests that the deferral government should create a supportive environment for open models.

Specific Recommendations:

The policy recommends removing bureaucratic red tape for the private sector. To avoid wasting funds, it also prohibits government funding for states with burdensome AI regulations. It argues that undue restrictions hinder innovation.

Specific Recommendations:

The policy recommends a “try-first” culture for AI across American industries to drive faster adoption, even in critical sectors like healthcare. It cites distrust, a lack of understanding of the technology, a complex regulatory landscape, and unclear governance and risk mitigation standards as reasons for slow AI adoption.

Specific Recommendations:

It says that AI will enable the new technology across industries, including autonomous drones, self-driving cards and even those technologies which don’t have terminology yet. So, it suggested that the government should invest in the emerging AI-led “industrial renaissance.”

“AI has the potential to transform both the warfighting and back-office operations of the DOD,” reads the policy and recommends aggressive AI adoption that is secure and reliable.

They cite the lack of an accurate behaviour prediction system of an AI model as the challenge preventing the U.S. from using advanced AI in high-stakes defense and national security.

Specific Recommendations:

“Because AI systems are particularly well-suited to processing raw intelligence data today, … it is likely that AI will be used with some of the U.S. government’s most sensitive data,” states the policy. It also mandated that the datacenters where the AI models are deployed must resist attacks by adversary nation-state actors.

Specific Recommendations:

Encouraging the AI adaptation in governmental operations, the paper reads, “Fortunately, AI systems themselves can be excellent defensive tools.”

It says that the US government has the responsibility to ensure that AI systems that the state relies on have to be protected against spurious or malicious inputs.

Specific Recommendations:

“The most powerful AI systems may pose novel national security risks in the near future in areas such as cyberattacks and the development of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive (CBRNE) weapons, as well as novel security vulnerabilities,” reads the policy. The policy emphasises the need to understand these risks as they develop to protect national defense and homeland security.

The policy recommends establishing systems to screen biological sequence orders before fulfilling them, after approving verified customers, to detect and prevent fraudulent or malicious activity.

Specific Recommendations:

The policy recommends bringing semiconductor manufacturing back to US soil to reinforce technological leadership, to control the supply chain and disruption from foreign rivals.

“America’s environmental permitting system and other regulations make it almost impossible to build this infrastructure in the United States with the speed that is required,” states the paper.

The document states that Trump’s revised reforms of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) ease the regulations across the relevant agencies.

Specific Recommendations:

The AI technology stack includes hardware, models, software, applications, and standards for all American allies and for those countries which are willing to join its alliance. The policy also states that refusing to join the alliance would turn the countries into US rivals.

Specific Recommendations:

The US says it supports the development of artificial intelligence in like-minded nations that share American values. However, it argues that other nations’ burdensome regulations and vague “codes of conduct” promote cultural agendas that conflict with American values, attempting to alter standards for facial recognition and surveillance.

Specific Recommendations:

“Denying our foreign adversaries access to this resource, then, is a matter of both geostrategic competition and national security,” reads the policy.

Specific Recommendations:

Emphasising on dominating manufacturing and research, the policy states that the US must prevent adversaries from using US innovations for their benefit, as it could undermine the US’s national security. It also states that the United States and its allies currently restrict exports of major systems critical to semiconductor manufacturing. But, lacks control in many of the semiconductor’s sub-component systems.

The policy suggests using the Foreign Direct Product Rule and secondary tariffs to control the exports of technology. This is to ensure that U.S. adversaries do not receive advanced technologies.

Specific Recommendations:

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event