We missed this earlier : Although a joint statement wasn’t issued at the first G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting held in Bengaluru last month, there was consensus among the 20 countries on key tech policy issues outlined at the meeting. They welcomed “robust regulation” of the global crypto-assets ecosystem, regulating the use of digital assets in illicit activities, using digital public infrastructure for financial inclusion, and strengthening the cyber-resiliency of the financial sector.

What’s this meeting all about? Why does it matter : It’s all in the name—the participating countries’ Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors come together to discuss “meaningful approaches” to global economic issues. Those discussions are supposed to set the mandate for the “ Finance Track ” work that the G20 undertakes. The February meeting in Bengaluru spanned three sessions—and covered topics like using digital public infrastructure to advance financial inclusion, multilateral development banks reforms, and financing sustainable cities. The meeting’s outcome document further hints at the kinds of policy frameworks and institutions the G20 is referring to while developing its finance work this year.

Does agreeing to these tech policy issues align with India’s tech policy goals as G20 President? From what we can see, pretty much. As we’ve previously reported , India is heavily focusing on accelerating the use of digital public infrastructure to solve economic and developmental issues. India has also committed to examining the role of technology in enabling terrorism. So, all in all, the meeting’s outcomes signal some global consensus on these issues.

But was the meeting successful for India overall? Instead of releasing a post-meeting joint statement indicating absolute consensus on all issues that were raised, India issued a “Chair’s Summary and Outcome Document”. That’s unsurprising—while the participating governors and ministers agreed to 15 of the 17 commitments on economic issues, two commitments remained a bone of contention for some countries. Paragraph 3, which condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and paragraph 4, which, among other things, described the threat or use of nuclear weapons as “inadmissible”. So, was releasing an outcome document instead of a joint statement a pitfall for India? Perhaps. As Business Standard notes , “India, as G20 President, was aiming for a [joint] communique, which is a stronger statement of intent.”

1. Heads nod for global crypto standards : The countries welcomed international efforts to regulate the crypto ecosystem and to ensure that it is robustly monitored and supervised to mitigate any potential risks to economic stability.

For example, the countries welcomed the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) report on de-centralized finance. Remember: the FSB coordinates with national financial authorities and international standard-setting bodies to promote financial stability. The G20 countries also looked forward to its high-level recommendations on regulating stablecoins and crypto assets by the third meeting of the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. No dates are available on the G20 website for when this third meeting will take place—although the second one will be held from April 12th to 13th in Washington D.C.

The countries also welcomed papers by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on crypto assets’ “macro-financial” implications, and policy approaches to regulate the sector. Another reminder : the IMF (sometimes controversially ) aims to further international monetary cooperation, expand trade and economic growth, and discourage policies harming “prosperity”. The countries also acknowledged the recent G20 seminar on policy approaches for regulating crypto assets where India hoped “to broaden the G20 discussion on crypto assets beyond financial integrity concerns and capture the macroeconomic implications and widespread crypto adoption in the economy”.

2. Countering terrorism—and virtual assets’ role in it : All 20 countries recognized the “urgent need” for regulations on anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing. Tech comes in here too: because the countries also agreed to more oversight of virtual assets , and to prevent their use in money laundering and terrorism financing.

To that end, the countries “look forward” to the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) work on ransomware financing . FATF coordinates global efforts to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing. The countries also welcomed the FATF’s analyses of terrorist crowdfunding and “ terrorist financing related to cyber-enabled fraud”.

As an aside: ransomware attacks carried out from “safe havens” like Russia, China, and Iran were a particular cause for concern in the United States’ recently-released national cybersecurity strategy. The strategy also flagged the “abuse” of virtual currencies to launder ransom payments. The US government also plans to target “the illicit cryptocurrency exchanges on which ransomware operators rely and improve international implementation of standards for combatting virtual asset illicit finance”. India has also been vocal about the role of technology-enabled terrorism at international fora.

3. All smiles for digital public infrastructure : All countries agreed to advance financial inclusion worldwide—and to improve access, usage, and quality of financial services for individuals and businesses. In that light, the countries welcomed “productive discussions” on the role of digital public infrastructure in promoting financial inclusion, a theme that was discussed at another G20 meeting this year. By the third meeting of the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, the countries hope to formulate policy recommendations for “rapidly advancing financial inclusion and productivity gains” by “leveraging” digital public infrastructure.

“Examples [of digital public infrastructure from India] like UPI can be templates for many other countries too. We would be happy to share our experience with the world and the G20 can be a vehicle for this” — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s opening remarks at the meeting.

4. Strengthening the cyber resilience of the financial sector : The countries agreed to continue enhancing the sector’s cyber resilience. Financial institutions are also increasingly dependent on critical technology providers—including “BigTech and FinTech” providers, the outcome document noted. FSB once again got a special mention—the countries look forward to its consultative work on how financial institutions can manage outsourcing and third-party risks.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event