2025:HHC:599

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. Appeal No. 177 of 2014
 Reserved on: 30.12.2024
 Date of Decision: 04.01.2025

 Jai Devi ...Appellant. Versus
 State of H.P. and others ...Respondents. Coram
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge.
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Appellant : Mr. Ramesh Sharma, Advocate.

 For the Respondents : Ms Sharmila Patial, Additional
 Advocate General, with Mr. Raj
 Negi, Deputy Advocate General for
 Respondent No.1. Mr. Surya Chauhan, Advocate for
 respondents No.2 to 4. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present appeal is directed against the judgment

 dated 28.2.2014, passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-I,

 Una, H.P., (learned Trial Court) vide which the respondents no. 2

 to 4 (accused before the learned Trial Court) were acquitted of

 the commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 2025:HHC:599

and 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ).

(Parties shall hereinafter be referred to in the same manner as they

were arrayed before the learned Trial Court for convenience). 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

appeal are that the appellant/informant Jaidei (PW1) is the

mother of Sandesh Kumari (since deceased). Sandesh Kumari

was married to accused Ravinder Kumar five years before the

incident. Dowry was provided to Ravinder Kumar and his family

members as per the informant's capacity, and she had spent

about ₹5.00 lacs for solemnising the marriage. The accused kept

Sandesh Kumari properly for about three years after the

marriage. They started harassing her after three years. The

husband, mother-in-law and brother-in-law of the deceased

used to demand money from her. The informant would counsel

the deceased and provide her with something or the other.

₹40,000/- was provided to the accused on the occasion of

marriage of Ravinder's sister as per his demand; however, the

accused continued to harass the deceased. They compelled the

deceased to get her younger sister married to accused, Shashi

Pal; however, he was physically challenged, and the younger

sister of the deceased did not agree to this proposal. The 3 2025:HHC:599

deceased told the informant three days before the incident that

the accused were harassing her. The accused, Ravinder,

threatened to commit suicide and falsely implicate the deceased

and her family members in case the marriage between his

brother and sister of deceased was not solemnised. The

informant told the deceased that the matter would be discussed

after 1-2 days. Saroj told the informant on 22.6.2011 at about 2.00

AM that Sandesh had consumed poison. The informant, her

husband Joginder Lal, her brother-in-law and her sister-in-law

reached Una Hospital. The Medical Officer on duty referred

Sandesh Kumari to the Post Graduate Institute (PGI),

Chandigarh. The deceased revealed on the way that her husband

compelled her to get the marriage of her sister solemnised with

his brother; otherwise, he would commit suicide. She

disconnected the phone, but he called his mother. Accused Kamla

Devi and Shashi Pal harassed the deceased. They asked Sandesh

Kumari that if she wanted to die; she could die, but she should

not kill Kamla's son. Sandesh committed suicide due to the

harassment of her husband, mother-in-law and brother-in-law.

They were also not present during the last rites of the deceased. A

complaint (Ex.PW1/A) was made to the police. FIR (Ex.PW22/A) 4 2025:HHC:599

was registered. Dr. D.K. Sharma (PW11) conducted a medical

examination of Sandesh at the time of her admission to the

hospital. He issued the MLC (Ex.PW11/B). He also preserved the

gastric lavage of the deceased. Darshan Lal and Mohinder Singh

(PW8) visited the Police Station and disclosed that one suicide

note was recovered from the room of the deceased, which was

kept in the house. ASI Bhagat Ram (PW19) went to the house of

Gurmail Singh. A suicide note (Ex. P7) and an empty pouch of

Celphos were handed over to ASI Bhagat Ram, who seized them

vide memo (Ex.PW8/A). The pouch was wrapped in a piece of

cloth, and the parcel was sealed with three impressions of seal

'A'. Specimen impression of seal (Ex.PW19/A) was taken on a

separate piece of cloth. Sandesh died at PGI, Chandigarh. ASI

Bhagat Ram (PW19) went to PGI, Chandigarh and prepared an

inquest report (Ex.PW19/B). He obtained the postmortem report

(Ex.PW19/C). He handed over the dead body of the deceased to

her father-in-law in the presence of her father vide memo

(Ex.PW2/A). He also took photographs of the dead body (Ex. P12

to Ex. P14). ASI Bhagat Ram prepared the site plan (Ex.PW19/D)

and recorded the statements of witnesses as per their version.

Gurmail Singh handed over one slip pad (Ex. P11), which was 5 2025:HHC:599

seized vide memo (Ex.PW10/A). Jagroop Singh (PW3) handed

over six pieces of plyboard (Ex. P1 to Ex. P6) on which papers in

Gurmukhi script in the hands of the deceased were pasted. These

were seized vide memo (Ex.PW3/A). ASI Bhagat Ram obtained the

admitted signatures of the deceased from the records of

Government Senior Secondary School Khanpur Khun. The extract

of Page No. 138 of the register (Ex.PW6/B) was seized vide memo

(Ex.PW6/A). The signatures were sent to RFSL, Dharamshala, for

obtaining expert opinion. The result of the analysis (Ex.CC) was

issued in which it was shown that the disputed and admitted

handwritings were written by the same person. Vijay Sharma

(PW20) conducted further investigation. He searched the room of

the deceased and seized three ballpoint pens (Ex. P8 to Ex. P10)

from the drawer of bed and table. He seized four leaves of the

application addressed by Ravinder to his superior vide seizure

memo (Ex.PW9/A). The ballpoint pens and the papers were

wrapped in a piece of cloth, and the parcel was sealed with seal

'H'. Specimen seal 'H' (Ex.PW20/A) was taken on a separate

piece of cloth. He filed an application (Ex.PW11/D) to obtain the

opinion of the Medical Officer and the inpatient record. Dr. D.K.

Sharma (PW11) issued the impatient record (Ex.PW11/C). The call 6 2025:HHC:599

detail record and Customer Application Form of the mobile

phones were taken into possession. The reports of analysis

(Ex.CA and Ex.CB) were issued by RFSL in which it was

mentioned that the Phosphine Gas was detected in the viscera

and Gastric lavage. Aluminium phosphide was detected in the

packet of Celphos. Statements of remaining witnesses were

recorded as per their version, and after the completion of the

investigation, a challan was prepared and presented before

learned Judicial Magistrate First Class, Una, who committed it to

learned Sessions Judge, Una, for trial. Learned Sessions Judge,

Una assigned the trial to learned Additional Sessions Judge, Una

(learned Trial Court). 3. Learned Additional Sessions Judge Una charged the

accused with the commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 of IPC, to which

they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 4. The prosecution examined 22 witnesses to prove its

case. Jaidei is the informant and mother, Joginder Lal (PW2) is

the father, and Jagroop (PW3) is the brother of the deceased.

Dalip Chand (PW4) was running a shop, to whom the deceased

disclosed about the pressure being exerted upon her to marry her 7 2025:HHC:599

younger sister to accused Shashi Pal. Neelam (PW5) is the elder

sister of the deceased, to whom the deceased confided about the

pressure being exerted upon her. Baljeet Kaur (PW6) handed over

the extract of the register and detail marks card register to the

police. Sanjiv Kumar (PW7) carried the deceased on a motorcycle

towards the hospital. Mohinder Singh (PW8) is the witness to the

recovery. Dharamjeet (PW9) did not support the prosecution

case. Gurdas Ram (PW10) is a witness to recovery. Dr. D.K.

Sharma (PW11) conducted the medical examination of Sandesh

when she was brought to the hospital. He also prepared the

record regarding her treatment. ASI Rajinder Kumar (PW12) went

to the hospital after hearing about the admission of the deceased.

Raj Kumar (PW13) proved that there was a dispute between the

parties regarding the marriage of the younger sister of the

deceased with accused Shashi Pal. Arpna Gupta (PW14) proved

that the mobile phone did not belong to her. HHC Shiv Kumar

(PW15) proved the copy of the application received from the

accused. HC Ajaib Singh (PW16) was posted as MHC, with whom

the case property was deposited. SI Rupinder Kumar (PW17)

seized a copy of the marriage certificate, family register, and the

extract of the marriage register. ASI Pratap Singh (PW18) 8 2025:HHC:599

recorded the statement of Aparna Gupta (PW14). ASI Bhagat Ram

(PW19) and Vijay Sharma (PW20) conducted the investigation.

Sushil Kumari (PW21) went to verify the facts regarding the entry

in the daily diary and recorded the statement of the deceased.

R.R. Thakur (PW22) went to the hospital with Sushil Kumari. 5. The accused, in their statements recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., admitted their relationship with the

deceased. They admitted that the deceased had consumed

poison, and she was taken to Regional Hospital, Una, from where

she was referred to PGI, Chandigarh. Accused Kamla stated that

she was innocent. Witnesses deposed against her because they

were related to the deceased. The last rites of the deceased were

performed by the accused. Accused Ravinder stated that he was

on duty at the time of the incident. He had left the village after

availing annual holidays in the month of January. The witnesses

deposed against him because they were related to the deceased.

Accused Shashi stated that he was innocent and all the witnesses

were related to the deceased. 6. Learned Trial Court held that the deceased had made a

statement before Sushila Kumari (PW21) that she had consumed

poison voluntarily and no one was responsible for her suicide. 9 2025:HHC:599

This statement was endorsed by her father. Subsequently, a

complaint was made by the informant after three days. There

was no explanation for the delay. The delay made the prosecution

case suspect. The prosecution evidence was not sufficient to

show that the deceased was left with no other option but to

commit suicide. Hence, the learned Trial Court acquitted the

accused. 7. Being aggrieved from the judgment passed by the

learned Trial Court, the informant filed the present appeal

asserting that the learned Trial Court erred in acquitting the

accused. The deceased committed suicide within four years of her

marriage, which raised a presumption that the suicide was

committed due to cruelty and maltreatment. This presumption

was not considered by the learned Trial Court. The parents of the

deceased were in great shock and could not report the matter

earlier. When they realised that the suicide was due to the torture

and maltreatment, they made a complaint. This aspect was

ignored by the learned Trial Court. A demand of ₹50,000/- was

raised by the accused. It was duly proved on record that accused

Ravinder threatened the deceased to commit suicide if she would

not get her younger sister married to his younger brother. The 10 2025:HHC:599

deceased was compelled to commit suicide due to such a threat.

The documents were read from the wrong perspective. The

Medical Officer stated that the deceased was unconscious and not

responding to the commands. The statement was got signed by

the police without telling the deceased its nature. Such a

statement could not have been used for acquitting the accused.

The deceased complained to her parents, her relatives and other

persons about the pressure being exerted upon her; therefore, it

was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the judgment

passed by the learned Trial Court be set aside. 8. We have heard Mr Ramesh Sharma, learned counsel

for the appellant/informant, Ms Sharmila Patial, learned

Additional Advocate General with Mr Raj Negi, learned Deputy

Advocate General for the respondent No.1-State and Mr Surya

Chauan, learned counsel for respondents No.2 to 4-accused. 9. Mr Ramesh Sharma, learned Counsel for the

appellant/informant, submitted that the learned Trial Court

erred in acquitting the accused. It was duly proved by the

statements of the parents and brother of the deceased that the

accused were harassing the accused. She had also told her sister

and the shopkeeper about the pressure being exerted upon her to 11 2025:HHC:599

marry her younger sister with accused Shashi Pal. The accused

had created such circumstances that the deceased was left with

no option but to commit suicide. Therefore, he prayed that the

present appeal be allowed and the judgment passed by the

learned Trial Court be set aside. 10. Ms Sharmila Patial, learned Additional Advocate

General for respondent No.1/State, supported the submissions of

Mr Ramesh Sharma, learned counsel for the appellant-

informant. 11. Mr Surya Chauhan, learned counsel for respondents

No.2 to 4-accused, supported the judgment passed by the

learned Trial Court. He submitted that the deceased had left the

suicide note, absolving any other person of any liability. She

made a statement before the Police that she had taken the poison

in a fit of anger. This statement was endorsed by her father. A

false complaint was made by the informant after three days of

the incident. The statements of the prosecution witnesses are

vague and do not contain the time and detail of the demands

being made by the accused. The learned Trial Court had taken a

reasonable view, which could have been taken based on the 12 2025:HHC:599

evidence led before the learned Trial Court. Therefore, he prayed

that the present appeal be dismissed. 12. We have given considerable thought to the

submissions made at the bar and have gone through the records

carefully. 13. The present appeal has been filed against a judgment

of acquittal. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mallappa v. State of Karnataka , (2024) 3 SCC 544: 2024 SCC OnLine

SC 130 that while deciding an appeal against acquittal, the High

Court should see whether the evidence was properly appreciated

on record or not; second whether the finding of the Court is

illegal or affected by the error of law or fact and thirdly; whether

the view taken by the Trial Court was a possible view, which

could have been taken based on the material on record. The Court

will not lightly interfere with the judgment of acquittal. It was

observed: 29. In Sanjeev v. State of H.P. [Sanjeev v. State of H.P., (2022)
6 SCC 294: (2022) 2 SCC (Cri) 522], the Hon'ble Supreme
Court analysed the relevant decisions and summarised the
approach of the appellate court while deciding an appeal
from the order of acquittal. It observed thus: (SCC p. 297,
para 7)
 "7. It is well settled that: 7.2. With an order of acquittal by the trial court, the
 normal presumption of innocence in a criminal
 matter gets reinforced (see Atley v. State of
 U.P. [Atley v. State of U.P., 1955 SCC OnLine SC 51: AIR
 1955 SC 807]). 7.3. If two views are possible from the evidence on
 record, the appellate court must be extremely slow
 in interfering with the appeal against acquittal (see
 Sambasivan v. State of Kerala [Sambasivan v. State of
 Kerala, (1998) 5 SCC 412: 1998 SCC (Cri) 1320])." 14. This position was reiterated in Ramesh v. State of

Karnataka , (2024) 9 SCC 169: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2581, wherein it

was observed at page 175: 21. In Rajendra Prasad v. State of Bihar [Rajendra Prasad v.
State of Bihar, (1977) 2 SCC 205: 1977 SCC (Cri) 308], a three-
judge Bench of this Court pointed out that it would be
essential for the High Court, in an appeal against acquittal,
to clearly indicate firm and weighty grounds from the
record for discarding the reasons of the trial court in order
to be able to reach a contrary conclusion of guilt of the
accused. It was further observed that, in an appeal against
acquittal, it would not be legally sufficient for the High
Court to take a contrary view about the credibility of
witnesses, and it is absolutely imperative that the High
Court convincingly finds it well-nigh impossible for the
trial court to reject their testimony. This was identified as 17 2025:HHC:599

 the quintessence of the jurisprudential aspect of criminal
 justice." 15. The present appeal has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 16. It is an admitted version that the accused had written

the suicide note (Ex. P7), which was seized by ASI Bhagat Ram. It

is in Punjabi and was got translated with the help of an official

Translator. Its free translation is as under: - 17. When she was brought to the hospital, Sushil Kumari

(PW21) recorded her statement (Ex. DA), which is freely

translated as under: - 18. This statement was signed by her. It was endorsed by

her father, Joginder Lal (PW2). 19. It was submitted that the deceased was critical when

she was brought to the hospital, and the police had obtained her 18 2025:HHC:599

signatures without explaining the nature of the statement being

recorded by them. This is not acceptable. Nothing was suggested

to Susheela Kumari (PW21) or Inspector R.R. Thakur (PW22) that

the statement was recorded by the police on their own, and no

such statement was made by Sandesh Kumari. Susheela Kumari

(PW21), on the other hand, stated in her cross-examination that

every word of the statement (Ex. DA) was stated by Sandesh

Kumari, and nothing was added to the statement. 20. Jagroop Singh (PW3) admitted in his cross-

examination that the deceased had made a statement to the

police about the consumption of poison in a fit of anger. He

admitted that Sandesh Kumari signed the statement, and her

father was also present. Joginder Lal (PW2) also admitted that

the lady Sub Inspector recorded the statement of the deceased in

the hospital, and he had signed the same. He admitted that his

statement (Ex. DB) was recorded in the hospital by Rajinder

Kumar. He volunteered to say that he was in a state of shock, and

police had obtained his signatures on 2-3 pages. He admitted

that he had not lodged any written complaint against any police

official regarding taking his signatures on (Ex. DA) and (Ex. DB)

without informing him of their contents. These statements prove 19 2025:HHC:599

that the deceased had made the statement (Ex. DA) voluntarily. 21. The statements (Ex. P7 and Ex. DA) were made by the

deceased regarding the circumstances related to her death and

are admissible under Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act. The

deceased had specifically stated that she had consumed poison

by herself and no one was responsible for it. Hence, the

statement made by the deceased did not establish the

prosecution case that the deceased was compelled to commit

suicide due to the circumstances created by the accused. 22. The police also recorded the statement of Joginder

Lal (Ex. DB) in which he specifically stated that Sandesh Kumari

had not complained about any person to him. His (Joginder's)

wife had made inquiries from Sandesh in his (Joiginder's)

presence; however, Sandesh Kumari said that she had mistakenly

consumed the poison. She had not complained about any person.

She made a statement regarding this fact to the police in his

presence. He did not have any suspicion regarding the death of

the deceased. Joginder Singh tried to explain that his signatures

were obtained on some documents without informing him,

which is not acceptable in view of his subsequent conduct of not

making any complaint to any person regarding the recording of 20 2025:HHC:599

wrong statement. Hence, the statement (Ex.DB) made by the

father of the accused cannot be discarded. 23. The statement (Ex. DB) also corroborates the contents

of the dying declaration that the deceased had consumed poison

by herself without being pressurised by any person. It was held in Mallappa (supra) that when two versions appear on the record,

the version in favour of the accused should be preferred. If the

version of the deceased and the initial version of her father are

accepted, the prosecution case that the deceased was compelled

to commit suicide by the deceased has to be discarded. 24. It was stated in the complaint (Ex.PW1/A) that the

deceased told about the harassment to her parents on her way to

Chandigarh. This was not plausible. Dr. D.K. Sharma (PW11) had

attended to the deceased when she was brought to the hospital.

He stated in his cross-examination that he had told ASI Bhagat

Ram (PW19) that the deceased was not fit to make a statement.

Therefore, the deceased could not have made any statement

while going to PGI, Chandigarh, keeping in view her condition

and the prosecution's version that the parents of the deceased

came to know about the harassment on the way to PGI,

Chandigarh is not acceptable. 2025:HHC:599 25. Jaidei (PW1) stated that the relationship of her

daughter with Ravinder Kumar remained cordial for about three

years. Thereafter, the in-laws of Sandesh Kumari started

maltreating her on the pretext of money. She (Sandesh) used to

tell her that her husband and her in-laws were maltreating her.

They were not providing any money to the deceased for her

personal use, so she (the informant) started giving her money

frequently. The in-laws of Sandesh Kumari demanded ₹50,000/-

for the marriage of Ravinder's sister. ₹40,000/- were given to

them. The relationship between Sandesh Kumari and Ravinder

Kumar remained cordial for one and half years, and thereafter,

Ravinder started pressuring her to solemnise the marriage of her

younger sister with accused Shashi Pal; however, the informant

and her family members did not agree to this proposal, as the

younger sister of Sandesh had refused to marry accused Shashi

Pal. The accused started maltreating the deceased. Accused

Ravinder used to threaten the deceased Sandesh Kumari and

pressurise her to solemnise the marriage of his younger brother

with the younger sister of the deceased. He also used to tell the

deceased that he would commit suicide and implicate her family

members. The deceased disclosed all these facts to her. She asked 22 2025:HHC:599

the deceased to remain calm and told her (the deceased) that she

(the informant) would settle the matter within 2-3 days. 26. The statement of the informant is highly vague. She

did not mention any particulars of date and time and the name of

the person, who had made the demand. It was laid down by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC

184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 2009 SCC OnLine SC 1693 that the Court

has to see that particulars of the offences committed by every

accused and the role played by the accused in committing the

offence are given in the complaint made to the police. It was

observed: - 27. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

was observed: 28. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face criminal

allegations without any specific instance of criminal misconduct

amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It was observed: 29. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 30. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v.

State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomena of false implication by general omnibus allegation in

the case of matrimonial dispute are not unknown to the Court.

When the allegations are general and omnibus, the prosecution

should not be continued. It was observed: - 27 31. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC 28 2025:HHC:599

OnLine SC 2621 that general and vague allegations of cruelty

made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where the
complainant's brother accompanied her to the
matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are alleged
to have refused to take her back, but on persuasion by her
brother, she was allowed to stay. There is also a vague
allegation that, when the complainant gave birth to a
second child, appellants 1 and 2 came
and "quarrelled" with the complainant, her brother, and
her parents and threatened them. This Court had occasion
to examine the phenomenon of general and omnibus
allegations in the cases of matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants have been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the
 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain the
 role played by each accused in furtherance of the
 offence. The allegations are, therefore, general and
 omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been made
 out on account of small skirmishes... However, as far
 as the appellants are concerned, the allegations
 made against them, being general and omnibus, do
 not warrant prosecution. 2025:HHC:599 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced to
 go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general and
 omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a situation
 where the relatives of the complainant's husband
 are forced to undergo trial. It has been highlighted
 by this Court in varied instances that a criminal trial
 leading to an eventual acquittal also inflicts severe
 scars upon the accused, and such an exercise must,
 therefore, be discouraged." 32. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682, wherein

it was observed: 33. In the present case, the informant, her husband and

her son have made general and vague statements without any

particulars, and the statements are not sufficient to constitute

cruelty. 34. Dalip Chand (PW4) stated that the deceased disclosed

to him that her in-laws were pressurising her to settle the

marriage of her younger sister with accused Shashi Pal, and she

was depressed due to this fact. Neelam (PW5) stated that the 32 2025:HHC:599

deceased had talked about the pressure being exerted by her in-

laws to settle the marriage of her younger sister, Manjeet, with

accused, Shashi Pal. These statements only prove that the

marriage of accused, Shashi Pal and the younger sister of the

deceased was being settled. Joginder Lal (PW2), the informant Jai

Dei, and Jagroop Singh (PW3) admitted that Shashi Pal was

married, whereas Manjeet, the younger sister of the deceased,

was unmarried. This shows that accused Shashi had no difficulty

in getting married, and this fact would not have led the accused

to compel the deceased to commit suicide if she was unable to get

her sister engaged to accused Shashi Pal. 35. It was laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh

Kumar versus the State of Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573 that the

prosecution is required to prove that the accused had created

such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other

option but to commit suicide. The Court cannot conclude that a

woman was being harassed because she had committed suicide.

It was observed: Vijay Kumar Mahajan [S.S. Chheena v. Vijay Kumar
 Mahajan , (2010) 12 SCC 190 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 465],
 it was observed as under : (SCC p. 197, para 25)
 '25. Abetment involves a mental process of
 instigating a person or intentionally aiding a
 person in doing a thing. Without a positive act
 on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in
 committing suicide, conviction cannot be
 sustained. The intention of the legislature and
 the ratio of the cases decided by the Supreme
 Court is clear that in order to convict a person
 under Section 306IPC, there has to be a clear
 mens rea to commit the offence. It also
 requires an active act or direct act which led
 the deceased to commit suicide seeing no
 option, and that act must have been intended
 to push the deceased into such a position that
 he committed suicide.'" 19. This Court in Ude Singh v. State of Haryana [Ude
Singh v. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301: (2020) 3 SCC
(Cri) 306], held that to convict an accused under Section
306IPC, the state of mind to commit a particular crime
must be visible with regard to determining the culpability.
It was observed as under: (SCC pp. 321-22, para 16)
 "16. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there
 must be proof of direct or indirect act(s) of
 incitement to the commission of suicide. It could
 hardly be disputed that the question of the cause of
 suicide, particularly in the context of an offence of
 abetment of suicide, remains a vexed one involving
 multifaceted and complex attributes of human
 behaviour and responses/reactions. In the case of an
 accusation of abetment of suicide, the court would
 be looking for cogent and convincing proof of the
 act(s) of incitement to the commission of suicide. In
 the case of suicide, a mere allegation of harassment
 of the deceased by another person would not suffice
 unless there be such action on the part of the
 accused which compels the person to commit
 suicide, and such an offending action ought to be
 proximate to the time of occurrence. Whether a
 person has abetted in the commission of suicide by
 another or not could only be gathered from the facts
 and circumstances of each case. 2025:HHC:599

 16.1. For the purpose of finding out if a person has
 abetted the commission of suicide by another, the
 consideration would be if the accused is guilty of the
 act of instigation of the act of suicide. As explained
 and reiterated by this Court in the decisions above
 referred, instigation means to goad, urge forward,
 provoke, incite or encourage to do an act. If the
 persons who committed suicide had been
 hypersensitive and the action of the accused is
 otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a
 similarly circumstanced person to commit suicide, it
 may not be safe to hold the accused guilty of
 abetment of suicide. But, on the other hand, if the
 accused, by his acts and by his continuous course of
 conduct, creates a situation which leads the
 deceased to perceive no other option except to
 commit suicide, the case may fall within the four
 corners of Section 306IPC. If the accused plays an
 active role in tarnishing the self-esteem and self-
 respect of the victim, which eventually draws the
 victim to commit suicide, the accused may be held
 guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of mens
 rea on the part of the accused in such cases would be
 examined with reference to the actual acts and deeds
 of the accused and if the acts and deeds are only of
 such nature where the accused intended nothing
 more than harassment or snap show of anger, a
 particular case may fall short of the offence of
 abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by words or
 deeds until the deceased reacted or was provoked, a
 particular case may be that of abetment of suicide.
 Such being the matter of delicate analysis of human
 behaviour, each case is required to be examined on
 its own facts while taking note of all the
 surrounding factors having bearing on the actions
 and psyche of the accused and the deceased." 20. This Court in Mariano Anto Bruno v. State [Mariano
Anto Bruno v. State, (2023) 15 SCC 560: 2022 SCC OnLine SC
1387], after referring to the above-referred decisions 36 2025:HHC:599

rendered in the context of culpability under Section
306IPC observed as under: (SCC para 45)
 "45. ... It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of
 alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof of
 direct or indirect acts of incitement to the
 commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of
 harassment without there being any positive action
 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of
 the accused which led or compelled the person to
 commit suicide, a conviction in terms of Section
 306IPC is not sustainable." 21. This Court in Gurcharan Singh v. State of
Punjab [Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2020) 10 SCC
200: (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 417], observed that whenever a
person instigates or intentionally aids by any act or illegal
omission, the doing of a thing, a person can be said to
have abetted in doing that thing. To prove the offence of
abetment, as specified under Section 107IPC, the state of
mind to commit a particular crime must be visible to
determine the culpability. 22. This Court in Kashibai v. State of Karnataka [Kashibai v.
State of Karnataka, (2023) 15 SCC 751: 2023 SCC OnLine SC
575], observed that to bring the case within the purview of
"abetment" under Section 107IPC, there has to be an
evidence with regard to the instigation, conspiracy or
intentional aid on the part of the accused and for the
purpose proving the charge under Section 306IPC, also
there has to be an evidence with regard to the positive act
on the part of the accused to instigate or aid to drive a
person to commit suicide. 23. Had there been any clinching evidence of incessant
harassment on account of which the wife was left with no
other option but to put an end to her life, it could have
been said that the accused intended the consequences of
his act, namely, suicide. A person intends a consequence
when he (1) foresees that it will happen if the given series
of acts or omissions continue and (2) desires it to happen.
The most serious level of culpability, justifying the most
serious levels of punishment, is achieved when both these 37 2025:HHC:599

 components are actually present in the accused's mind (a
 "subjective" test). 24. For intention in English law, Section 8 of the Criminal
 Justice Act, 1967, provides the frame in which the mens
 rea is assessed. It states: Under Section 8(b) , therefore, the jury is allowed wide
 latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intent or
 foresight on the basis of all the evidence. 25. It is now well settled that in order to convict a person
 under Section 306IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea to
 commit the offence. Mere harassment is not sufficient to
 hold an accused guilty of abetting the commission of
 suicide. It also requires an active act or direct act which led
 the deceased to commit suicide. The ingredient of mens
 rea cannot be assumed to be ostensibly present but has to
 be visible and conspicuous. 36. It was submitted that the deceased had committed

suicide within seven years of her marriage, and presumption

under Section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act applies to the

present case. This submission is not acceptable. It was laid down

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh (supra) that the 38 2025:HHC:599

presumption under Section 113 A of the Indian Evidence Act will

only apply when there is proof of the cruelty. It was observed:- 31. In this appeal, we are concerned with Section 113-A of
 the Evidence Act. The mere fact that the deceased
 committed suicide within a period of seven years of her
 marriage, the presumption under Section 113-A of the
 Evidence Act, would not automatically apply. The
 legislative mandate is that where a woman commits
 suicide within seven years of her marriage, and it is shown
 that her husband or any relative of her husband had
 subjected her to cruelty, the presumption under Section
 113-A of the Evidence Act may be raised, having regard to
 all other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had
 been abetted by her husband or by such relative of her
 husband. 32. What is important to note is that the term "the court
 may presume having regard to all other circumstances of
 the case that such suicide had been abetted by her
 husband" would indicate that the presumption is
 discretionary, unlike the presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, which is mandatory. Therefore, before
 the presumption under Section 113-A is raised, the
 prosecution must show evidence of cruelty or incessant
 harassment in that regard. 33. The court should be extremely careful in assessing
 evidence under Section 113-A for finding out if cruelty was 39 2025:HHC:599

 meted out. If it transpires that a victim committing suicide
 was hypersensitive to ordinary petulance, discord and
 differences in domestic life quite common to the society to
 which the victim belonged and such petulance, discord
 and differences were not expected to induce a similarly
 circumstanced individual in a given society to commit
 suicide, the conscience of the court would not be satisfied
 for holding that the accused charged of abetting the
 offence of suicide was guilty. 34. Section 113-A has been interpreted by this Court
 in Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab [Lakhjit Singh v. State of
 Punjab, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 173: 1994 SCC (Cri) 235], Pawan
 Kumar v. State of Haryana [Pawan Kumar v. State of
 Haryana, (1998) 3 SCC 309: 1998 SCC (Cri) 740]
 and Shanti v. State of Haryana [Shanti v. State of Haryana,
 (1991) 1 SCC 371: 1991 SCC (Cri) 191]. 35. This Court has held that from the mere fact of suicide
 within seven years of marriage, one should not jump to
 the conclusion of abetment unless cruelty was proved. The
 court has the discretion to raise or not to raise the
 presumption because of the words "may presume". It
 must take into account all the circumstances of the case,
 which is an additional safeguard. 36. In the absence of any cogent evidence of harassment or
 cruelty, an accused cannot be held guilty of the offence
 under Section 306IPC by raising a presumption under
 Section 113-A." 37. Sanjiv Kumar (PW7) stated that on the intervening

night of 22nd and 23rd June 2011, Kamla Devi came to his home and

disclosed that Sandesh Kumar was serious and had to be shifted

to Una. He and Dharam Pal went towards the hospital with

Sandesh Kumari on a motorcycle. An Ambulance met them on the

way, and Sandesh Kumari was shifted to the Ambulance. She was 40 2025:HHC:599

taken in the Ambulance to Regional Hospital, Una. This shows

that Kamla Devi had approached her neighbour to take the

deceased to the hospital. The conduct of the accused is

inconsistent with their guilt. It was laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan v. Prithvi Raj , 1995 Supp (3)

SCC 410: 1995 SCC (Cri) 934 that where the accused took the

deceased to the hospital, it is quite consistent with their

innocence. It was observed at page 412: 38. The complaint (Ex. PW-1/A) was made after three

days of the incident. Initially, no suspicion was expressed. It was

wrongly stated in the complaint that the deceased had told her

parents about the harassment on the way to PGI Chandigarh. It

was laid down in Mehraj Singh v. State of U.P. (1994) 5 SCC 188 that

the delay in lodging FIR leads to embellishments, concoction and

fabrication and, therefore, the Court should see the prosecution 41 2025:HHC:599

case with utmost care and caution in case of delay. It was

observed: 39. This position was reiterated in P Rajagopal vs State of

Tamil Nadu 2019 (5) SCC 40, wherein it was observed: - 40. Thus, learned Trial Court was justified in doubting the

prosecution case due to the delay in reporting the matter to the

police. 41. No other point was urged. 42. In view of the above, the learned Trial Court had taken

a reasonable view, which could have been taken based on the

general/vague statements made by the prosecution witnesses,

the dying declaration made by the deceased and the statement of

Joginder Lal (PW2). No interference is required with the view of 43 2025:HHC:599

the learned Trial Court while deciding the appeal against the

acquittal. Accordingly, the present appeal fails, and the same is

dismissed. 43. In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the Code

of Criminal Procedure (Section 481 of Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha

Sanhita, 2023), the respondents/accused are directed to furnish

bail bonds in the sum of ₹25,000/-each with one surety each in

the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court

within four weeks, which shall be effective for six months with

stipulation that in the event of Special Leave Petition being filed

against this judgment, or on grant of the leave, the

respondents/accused on receipt of notice thereof, shall appear

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 44. A copy of this judgment along with the record of the

learned Trial Court be sent back forthwith. Pending applications,

if any, also stand disposed of. (Tarlok Singh Chauhan)
 Judge

 (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 4th January, 2025
 (Chander)