As parties in both the writ petitions are one and the same and the issue is
connected, they are being disposed of by this common order. 2. The petitioner in both the writ petitions is one Smt. Kauser Khan. The case
of the petitioner is that herself and her family members, including her husband,
are involved in business and that her husband moves globally for business
purposes. For self protection and security, she requires weapon and accordingly
based on her application, the licensing authority granted licence bearing
no.112/24 dated 28.3.1983, re-registered as 971/Banjara Hills for possessing (1)
.25 NPB pistol and (2) .22 NPB Rifle, which licence was renewed up to 28.3.2007.
A theft took place when she was residing at H.No.8-2-684/3/R, Road No.12,
Banjara Hills, Hyderabad on 14.11.2002 and in the said theft, her N.P. Bore
pistol was stolen. Therefore, she made a complaint in FIR No.741/2002 dated
14.11.2002 and eventually, the criminal case was closed as "undetected" before
the V Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Hyderabad. Her further case is that she is
running an engineering college at Chevella, Rangareddy District and travels
carrying huge amounts at the time of admissions and during payment of salaries
to the staff and that usually her return journey will be at late evenings and
hence she being a lady, for self-protection, made application on 23.1.2006 to
the 3rd respondent - Deputy Commissioner of Police, West Zone, Hyderabad, to 
grant permission to purchase an identical pistol, which was lost in the theft
committed in her house on 14.11.2002. The 2nd respondent - Commissioner of 
Police, by order in proceedings No.HW-3/Arms/971 - Banjara Hills/06 dated
11.10.2006, rejected the request of the petitioner for purchase of second weapon
and cancelled the Arms Licence no.971/Banjara Hills and permitted the petitioner
to sell the existing weapon to an authorized arms dealer and intimate the same
to the authority. Aggrieved by the same, the petitioner preferred appeal before
the 1st respondent - Government and by proceedings in Memo No.31508/Arms/2006 
dated 12.2.2007, the Principal Secretary to Government, rejected the appeal.
Aggrieved by the same, she filed writ petition before this court in
W.P.No.10113/2008. By interim order dated 1.5.2008 in WPMP.No.13294/2008 in 
W.P.No.10113/2008, taking into consideration the submission of the learned
counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner's arms licence expired and that
she may be given liberty to file an application for its renewal; this court
permitted the petitioner to file an application for renewal of Arms Licence
before the licencing authority and directed the said authority to dispose of the
same in accordance with law. Pursuant to the said interim direction of this
court, the 2nd respondent - Commissioner of Police, by proceedings No.HW- 
3/Arms/9/1Banjara Hills, dated 17.6.2008 rejected the application of the
petitioner to renew the Arms Licence. Aggrieved by the same, the petitioner
filed the subsequent writ petition in W.P.No.836/2010. 3. Thus, aggrieved by the orders of the respondents in rejecting the permission
to the petitioner to purchase the lost weapon and in canceling the Arms Licence
and in rejecting the application of the petitioner for renewing the Arms
Licence, the present writ petitions are filed. 4. The 3rd respondent - Deputy Commissioner of Police, filed counter affidavit
in W.P.No.10113/2008 and denied the averments made by the petitioner in the writ
affidavit and sought for dismissal of the writ petition. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the
petitioner was having Arms Licence No.971/Banjara Hills, covering (1) .25 NPB
Pistol and (2).22 NPB Rifle, which is renewed up to 28.3.2007 and in a theft
that took place in her house on 14.11.2002, .25 NPB pistol was lost and
eventually the criminal case filed in that regard, ended in closure based on the
'undetected' report filed by the police. He contended that in the initial order
dated 11.10.2006 of the primary authority - 2nd respondent- Commissioner of
Police, the request of the petitioner for purchase of lost weapon was rejected
on the grounds that she is not in a position to ensure safe custody of the
weapon and that she is without second weapon since 2002 and that the weapon 
already available should be sufficient for the purpose for which it was granted.
But the licencing authority eventually cancelled the Arms Licence. He contended
that at one breathe he hold that the second weapon would be sufficient for which
it was granted and on the contrary, cancels the Arms Licence permission itself.
He contends that the request is made for granting permission to purchase lost
weapon and in the order of rejection, the primary authority at one stage holds
that second weapon would be sufficient and in a self contradicting manner,
cancels the permission. He contended that the 2nd respondent - Commissioner of 
Police, has not considered the averments made by the petitioner, while rejecting
the permission. The appellate authority - 1st Government, in a mechanical
manner, without application of mind, confirmed the order of the 2nd respondent.
He submitted that Section 13 of The Arms Act, 1959 (for short 'the Act') speaks
about the grant of licence and Section 17 deals with the variations, suspension
and revocation of licence and the said provisions prescribes the procedure. But
the respondents without adhering to the said procedure and in violation of the
principals of natural justice and without assigning any reasons and without
considering the grievance of the petitioner and the facts and circumstances
narrated by her, cancelled the permission granted to the petitioner and the same
is arbitrary and illegal. He contended that this court taking into consideration
the fact that the licence of the petitioner has expired, permitted the
petitioner to make an application for renewal and directed the authority to
dispose of the same in accordance with law. In the impugned order dated
17.6.2008, the 2nd respondent - Commissioner of Police, relying on the report of
Inspector of Police P.S. Banjara Hills, which stated that there is no specific
threat to the petitioner from any individual or group; rejected the application
of the petitioner. He contended that the averments of the petitioner with regard
to her self protection, stated by her in the application, were not considered
and no notice was issued and in violation of principles of natural justice, the
application for renewal was rejected and hence the same needs to be set aside.
With these contentions, the learned counsel for the petitioner sought to set
aside the impugned orders and allow the writ petitions. 6. On the other hand, the learned Government Pleader appearing for Home,
submitted that the authorities found that the petitioner is not in a position to
ensure safe custody of weapon and that as per the report of the Inspector of
Police, Police Station, Banjara Hills, the petitioner is not having any specific
threat from any individual or group and hence the authorities considering the
entire material on record and after complying with the principles of natural
justice, cancelled the Arms Licence granted to the petitioner and the
discretionary orders passed by the authorities cannot be interfered with by this
court and sought for dismissal of the writ petitions. 7. In order to decide the validity of the impugned orders, it is necessary to
first note the relevant provisions of the Act under Sections 13 and 17 in
Chapter III, which deals with grant of licences and its revocation. The said
provisions, to the extent relevant, are extracted as under: Provided that where having regard to the circumstances of any case, the
licensing authority is satisfied that a muzzle loading gun will not be
sufficient for crop protection, the licensing authority may grant a licence in
respect of any other smoother bore gun as aforesaid for such protection; or (ii) in respect of a point 22 bore rifle or an air rifle to be used for target
practice by a member of a rifle club or rifle association licensed or recognized
by the Central Government; (b) a license under section 3 in any other case or a licence under section 4 , section 5 , section 6 , section 10 or section 12 , if the licensing authority is
satisfied that the person by whom the licence is required has a good reason for
obtaining the same. 14. Refusal of licence- (1) Notwithstanding anything in section 13 , licenceing
authority shall refuse to grant- (a) a licence under section 3 , section 4 or section 5 where such licence is
required in respect of any prohibited arms or prohibited ammunition; (b) a licence in any other case under Chapter II,-- (i) where such licence is required by a person whom the licensing authority has
reason to believe - (1) to be prohibited by this Act or by any other law for the time being in force
from acquiring, having in his possession or carrying any arms or ammunition, or

 (2) to be of unsound mind, or

 (3) to be for any reason unfit for a licence under this Act, or (ii) where the licensing authority deems it necessary for the security of the
public peace or for public safety to refuse to grant such licence". (2) The licencing authority shall not refuse to grant any licence to any person
merely on the ground that such person does not own or possess sufficient
property. (3) Whether the licensing authority refuses to grant a licence to any person it
shall record in writing the reasons for such refusal and furnish to that person
on demand a brief statement of the same unless in any case the licensing
authority is of the opinion that it will not be in the public interest to
furnish such statement. 17. Variation, suspension and revocation of licences: section (1) or an order suspending or revoking a licence under sub-section (3),
it shall record in writing the reasons therefor and furnish to the holder of the
licence on demand a brief statement of the same unless in any case the licensing
authority is of the opinion that it will not be in the public interest to
furnish such statement. 8. A reading of the above provisions makes it clear that under Section 13
(3)(a)(i) , the licencing authority in accordance with the procedure prescribed
under that section, shall grant licence to a citizen of India for use of
protection or sport or in respect of protection of crop. Section 14 deals with
refusal of licence and under Section 17 , such licence granted under Section 13 ,
can be varied, suspended and revoked. 9. In the present case, the licence is revoked. It is to be conspicuously
noticed that the grounds mentioned under Section 14(b)(i) for refusal of
licence, are similar to the grounds under Section 17(3)(a) for revocation of
licence. As per the circumstances enumerated under sub section (3) of Section
17 , the licence can revoke if the licencing authority is satisfied that the
holder of licence is prohibited by the Act or any other law for the time being
in force from acquiring, having in his possession or carrying any arms or
ammunitions; or if of unsound mind; or is for any reason unfit for a licence
under the act; for the security of the public peace or for public safety; if the
licence is obtained by suppressing material information; if any conditions of
licence has been contravened and; if the licence holder fails to comply with the
notice requiring him to deliver up the licence. Under sub section 5 of section
17 , the licencing authority revoking the licence under sub section 3 , shall
record in writing the reasons therefor and furnish to the holder of the licence
on demand a brief statement of the same, unless the authority is of the opinion
that it will not be in the public interest to furnish such statement. In other
words, the licence granted under Section 13 (3)(a)(i) for protection of a
citizen of India, can be revoked under Section 17 (3) , after satisfying with the
circumstances enumerated under the said sub section and pass an order in writing
by recording reasons and furnish the same to the licence holder, if the
furnishing of such order does not prejudice the public interest. 10. In the light of the above provision, it is expedient to examine whether the
2nd respondent who revoked the licence, has conformed to the statutory
provisions extracted above. 11. The case of the petitioner is that she is running an engineering college
and would be carrying huge amounts during admissions and while paying salaries
to the staff and usually traveling in the late evenings and that husband and
family members are involved in business and for protection, she requires licence
under Act to possess weapon enumerated under Section 13 of the Act. It is not in
dispute that she was granted Arms Licence No.971/Banjara Hills for possession
(1) .25 NPB Pistol and (2) .22 NPB Rifle, which is renewed up to 28.3.2007. On
the ground that in a theft that took place in her house on 14.11.2002, .25 NPB,
was lost, she filed FIR and eventually the said case ended in closure based on
the report of the police as 'undetected'. Subsequently, she made application for
grant of permission to purchase another weapon in the place of .25 NPB. By
proceedings dated 11.10.2006, the Commissioner of Police rejected the said
application. The relevant portion of the order is extracted as under for better
appreciation: 12. The above order shows that the petitioner pleaded before the licencing
authority that the weapon was lost due to the theft committed in her house and
the authority came to the conclusion that the petitioner is not in a position to
ensure safe custody of her weapon. Further, the authority holds that the weapon
already available should be sufficient for protection and in the immediate
paragraph, he cancels the Arms Licence. The licencing authority shall come to
the conclusion that the licence holder is unfit to hold a licence in view of the
circumstances enumerated under sub section (3) of Section 17 . The said
circumstances for revoking the licence, which are already extracted above, are
not forthcoming in the order of the 2nd respondent - Commissioner of police
dated 11.10.2006. The 1st respondent - appellate authority in the proceedings
dated 12.2.2007, has not recorded any independent reasons in conformity with Section 17(3) for rejecting the request of the petitioner and for confirming
order of the 2nd respondent dated 11.10.2006. The operative portion of the
order of the 1st respondent reads thus: 13. As noted above, the licencing authority, shall categorically record cogent
and convincing reasons enumerated under sub section (3) of Section 17 for
revoking the licence. No reasons were recorded either by the primary or the
appellate authority by considering the averments made by the petitioner in the
application and passed orders in a cryptic manner. Further the averments of the
petitioner that she is running an Engineering college and has to carry huge
amounts for payment of salaries and during admissions and that she travels in
the late evening and that she being a lady needs protection; have not been
denied. Therefore, in the light of these facts and circumstances, the impugned
rejection amounts to violation of the principles of the natural justice. 14. Pursuant to the interim order of this court dated 1.5.2008 the petitioner
made application for renewal and by impugned order dated 17.6.2008 in
W.P.No.836/2010 the 2nd respondent rejected the said application. A perusal of
the said order also shows that the averments of the petitioner were not
considered and the licencing authority relied on the report of the Inspector of
Police, which stated that there is no specific threat to the petitioner from any
individual or group and there is also no material to show that any opportunity
was given to the petitioner. 15. In the judgment relied on by the counsel for the petitioner in SYED AFZAL
MEHDI v. STATE OF A.P.1 , the learned Single Judge of this court while dealing
with rejection of application of the petitioner therein for grant of arms
licence under Section 13 , held that a citizen is entitled as of right for an
arms licence, if his case falls under Section 13(3)(a)(i) subject to his
satisfying that his case does not fall under Section 14(1)(b) , that two separate
grounds for refusal are (1) where licensing authority has reason to believe that
the person who required licence is unfit for a licence or (2) where the
licensing authority deems it necessary for security of public peace or public
safety. While not accepting the reasons given by the authority for refusal of
licence, this court held as under: 16. In the above judgment the learned single Judge while dealing with the case
of the petitioner therein with regard to refusal for grant of licence, taking
into consideration the law laid in the judgment of the High Court of Allahabad
that the normal rule should be grant of the arms licence and refusal on the
ground of unfitness should only be for very strong reasons e.g., involvement in
a heinous crime; held that unless the licensing authority is satisfied that any
of the grounds mentioned in Section 14(1)(b) exists, an application for grant of
an arms licence shall not be refused on a vague ground such as absence of
genuine need. In the present case, the licencing authority revoked the licence
of the petitioner. As already noticed above, the grounds mentioned under Section 14(b)(i) for refusal of licence, are similar to the grounds under Section 17(3)(a) for revocation of licence. The licensing authority while
revoking the licence has not satisfied that any of the grounds mentioned under Section 17(3) exists and no reasons were recorded. 17. For the foregoing reasons, the impugned orders in the writ petitions are
set aside and the 2nd respondent - Commissioner shall consider the application
of the petitioner afresh and pass appropriate orders in accordance with law
within a period of four weeks from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. 18. The writ petitions are accordingly disposed of. No costs. --------------------------------- G.CHANDRAIAH,J 
DATE: 25-07-2012