GITA MITTAL, ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE 1. The present writ petition has been filed by the petitioners
challenging the legislative competence and constitutional validity
of sub-section (2) of Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 read WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 1 of 51 with Rule 40 as well as paragraphs 3 and 6 of Schedule III of the
Citizenship Rules, 2009. The writ petitioners also challenge the
constitutional validity of sub-section (5) of Section 10 of the
Passports Act, 1967. The writ petitioner makes the following
prayers : iii. Issue a writ of certiorarified mandamus or an
 appropriate writ, order or direction in the nature
 of certiorarified mandamus: iv. Grant to Petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 specifically
 Prayers iii(a) and (b) above such that they are
 operative nunc pro tunc from 22.9.1995 when this WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 3 of 51 Hon'ble Court passed its Order finally disposing
 of C.W.P. No. 1651 of 1995 filed by Petitioner
 No. 2 through and represented by Petitioner No.
 1; v. Award costs of this Petition in favour of
 Petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 and against Respondent
 Nos. 1 to 4" 2. We are confining the present order to the consideration of
the prayer of the petitioner nos.1 and 2 to issuance of their
passports which prayer for issuance of passport has been denied by
the respondents on the plea of their having opted for Canadian
citizenship. 3. We note hereunder such facts as are necessary for
considering this prayer, which are undisputed. 4. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 herein are husband and wife, who
belong to the Tangkhul Naga Tribe (a Scheduled Tribe), domiciled
in the hilly areas of the State of Manipur and are Indian citizens by
birth within the meaning and intent of Article 5(a) and (b) of the
Constitution of India and Section 3(1)(a) of the Citizenship Act,
1955. 5. In 1992, both the petitioners were holding valid Indian
Passports issued under the Passports Act, 1967 . The petitioner no.2
was issued Indian Passport bearing No. B286072 while petitioner
no.1 was issued Indian passport bearing No. W898837. It is also
submitted that petitioner no. 1, who had travelled to Ottawa,
Canada for a training programme in August, 1993, was issued a WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 4 of 51 fresh Indian Passport bearing no. R461568 by the Indian High
Commission, Canada as his existing Passport bearing no. W898837
was due to expire on 27th September, 1994. 6. While travelling in Bangkok, Thailand on 2nd July, 1994,
petitioner no.2 complains that her passport was stolen while in the
market place and that she had also made a police complaint in this
regard. Consequently, on 4th July, 1994, the petitioner no.2 also
made an application at the Indian Embassy in Bangkok for issuance
of a duplicate passport, duly enclosing a photocopy of her passport
which had been stolen. In support of this plea, the petitioner has
placed on record a receipt no.43453 dated 6th July, 1994 issued by
the Indian Embassy, Bangkok for the sum of 4980 Baht paid by her
to it for the issuance of the duplicate passport. This is informed to
be the fee prescribed for the purpose. 7. Inasmuch as her application for duplicate passport was not
being processed despite passage of almost a year, on the 9th of
May, 1995, the petitioner no.2 had filed CWP No.1651/1995
through the petitioner no.1 in this court seeking issuance of a writ
of mandamus to the respondent no.3 directing it to issue a duplicate
passport to petitioner no.2. 8. The respondents appeared in response to the notice to show
cause in this writ petition and filed a counter affidavit dated 16th
August, 1995. We extract hereunder the relevant portion of the
counter affidavit filed by the respondents : (Emphasis by us) 9. In para 2 (ii) of this counter affidavit dated 16th August,
1995, under the caption "Brief Facts of the Case" in the said
counter affidavit, the respondents alleged that : Isaac Swu and Th. Muivah have been reportedly using
 Bangkok for strategic purposes and particularly for
 purchase of arms for being used against Indian Security
 forces and civilians in the North East. They are also
 reported to use the place for safe haven, obtaining
 documents, printing of literature etc. Reportedly, arms
 consignments have also been procured in Thailant and
 sent to India through Bangladesh and Myanmar. They
 have been used for unlawful activities directed against the
 security and integrity of India. The respondents have
 taken up the matter with Government of Thailand to obtain
 their cooperation." (iii) It is believed that Luingam Luithui, husband of
 Ms. Peingmla Luithui has been associated with the top
 leaders of the NSCN(I)(M) in Bangkok and has been
 helping them. (iv) The loss of passport under these circumstances will
 need to be verified particularly to see under which
 circumstances the passport has been lost and whether it
 had not fallen into the hands of unscrupulous elements. Such possibilities cannot be ruled out. (v) The above will require some time and therefore
 extension of time is necessary for this purpose. Also
 various other points have been raised in the writ petition
 which will have to be looked into and replied to." (Emphasis by us) 10. Thus to justify their action of non-processing of the
application of petitioner no.2, the respondents made the allegations
against petitioner no.1 that he "is actively assisting leaders of
National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak Swu faction) which
has been notified as an unlawful association under the Unlawful
Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 ". 11. So far as the petitioner no.2 is concerned, it was only stated
in the counter affidavit of 1995 that she has been accompanying
her husband Luingam Luithui during his travels to various
countries in Asia and Europe. There was not the remotest
suggestion of impropriety or illegal conduct by the petitioner no.2. 12. In the counter affidavit, it was contended by the respondents
that, in the stated circumstances, the loss of passport had to be
verified and it had to be examined whether it had fallen into the
hands of unscrupulous elements. The respondents stated that this
aspect of the matter required some time. It is noteworthy that the
respondents not only admitted that the petitioners were Indian
citizens but also did not dispute the entitlement of the petitioner
no.2 to the grant of duplicate passport therein. 13. In all fairness, we may also note the response of the WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 7 of 51 petitioner no.1 in his rejoinder to the above allegations. In
paragraph 4 thereof, he specifically traversed and refuted the
allegations made against him in the said counter affidavit stating as
follows : In paragraph 6 thereof, the petitioners averred : (Emphasis by us) 14. No proceedings, civil or criminal, against the petitioner no.1,
were set out or even suggested by the respondents in the counter
affidavit. 15. In these proceedings, an order dated 14th August, 1995 was
passed by this court requiring the presence of the Deputy Secretary
concerned, along with relevant records. The petitioner no.1, who
had sworn the affidavit in support of the writ petition on behalf of
his wife, was also directed to remain present in person. Be it noted than no records were produced by the
respondents before the writ court. 16. Given the nature of the disputes before us, we may also WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 8 of 51 usefully extract the final order dated 22nd September, 1995 passed
in CWP No.1651/1995 which reads as follows: (Emphasis by us) 17. The above order would show that even in the hearing on 22nd
September, 1995 before the Division Bench of this court, no
objection was expressed to the issuance of the duplicate passport to
the petitioner no.2. On the contrary, the respondents assured the
court that the petitioner no.2's application for grant of duplicate
passport shall be considered as soon as possible. In these circumstances, petitioner no.1 rejoined the petitioner
no.2 who was still at Bangkok. 18. However, nothing was done by the respondents to comply
with the order dated 22nd September, 1995 and it became evident
that respondents no.1 to 3 were not abiding by the commitment
given by them on 22nd September, 1995 to this court to issue a
duplicate passport. It is stated in the writ petition that additionally several
instances of persecution of the petitioner nos. 1 and 2 through the
Thai authorities took place. The petitioners complain that at the
instigation of the Govt. of India, on 10th October, 1995, the Royal
Thai Police raided a hotel in Chiang Mai where the AIPP and
International Work Group on Indigenous Affairs were holding an
international conference in which the petitioners were participating. 19. These events cumulatively created a bonafide apprehension
in the minds of the petitioner nos. 1 and 2 that a situation was being
engineered which would result in the continued stay of petitioner
no.2 in Thailand being treated by the local authorities as stay of a
foreign national without travel documents in violation of Thai
Penal laws, which would result in their incarceration in that
country, without availability of any legal redressal. It is also urged
that by their contumacious conduct in not issuing the duplicate
passport to the petitioner no.2, the respondents effectively
prevented the petitioners from seeking legal redressal in India. 20. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 have asserted in the writ petition
that they were placed in a legal predicament inasmuch as petitioner
no.2 had no documents to travel and re-enter India and that if she
tried to enter India without proper travel documents, she would WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 10 of 51 have been liable for penal action under Section 4 of the Passport
(Entry into India) Act, 1920. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 express
apprehension that some modus operandi would be adopted by the
respondent nos.1 to 3 to explain their act of omission in not issuing
the duplicate passport to petitioner no.2 to this court. 21. In this background, keeping in view the condition of the de
facto statelessness of the petitioner no.2 and her helplessness, in
utter desperation, the petitioner no.2 took the only legal recourse
available to her which was in public international law. More than a
year after submission of her application for the duplicate passport,
on 12th November, 1995 the petitioner no.2 per force addressed a
representation to the representative of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees ("UNHCR" hereafter) in Thailand
seeking protection. Summarising the factual background and her
predicament in the representation, the petitioner no.2 asserted as
follows : (Emphasis by us) 22. It is claimed by the petitioners that they were interviewed on
the same date by officials of the UNHCR who advised that the WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 11 of 51 petitioner no.1 should also seek similar protection. Consequently,
on 13th November, 1995, petitioner no.1 also addressed a
representation to the representative of the UNHCR in Thailand. 23. The petitioners have attributed certain other actions on the
part of respondent nos.1 to 3 which caused harassment to them. It
is contended that on 4th January, 1996, their residence in Bangkok
was searched by the Officials of the Royal Thai Police, suggesting
that this was at the instance of the respondents. 24. On the 1st of February 1996, the office of the UNHCR in
Bangkok duly certified that the petitioner nos.1 and 2 were
"recognized as persons of concern under the mandate of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and is,
accordingly, deserving the international protection provided by the
High Commissioner". The certificate was valid for four months up
to 1st of June 1996. 25. The terminology "person of concern" is conventionally used
by the UNHCR to denote the category of persons mentioned in
Article 1A of the "United Nations Convention Relating to the
Statutes of Refugees 1951" read with the "Protocol" of 1967. It is
submitted that though India has not ratified either this Convention
or the Protocol, India is a member of and sits on the Executive
Committee of the UNHCR. 26. In addition to the above impediment faced by the petitioner
no.2, the petitioner nos.1 and 2 submit that the above conduct of
the Government of India induced in them a well founded fear of
persecution for reasons of race, ethnic origin, political opinion and WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 12 of 51 membership of a particular social group within the meaning of Article 1 (1) of the Bangkok Principles adopted by the Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO) (of which India
is a member) on 24th June, 2001. The submission is that the
respondents effectively disabled them from returning to India to
avail the protection under the Indian Constitution through process
of the court. It is submitted that petitioner nos.1 and 2 were,
therefore, covered within the definition of the expression "refugee"
under Article (1) of the said Bangkok Principles. 27. The writ petitioner submits that the provisions of the
Convention are compatible to fundamental rights, directive
principles of State policy as well as the fundamental duties of the
citizens under the Constitution of India and that the legislative and
executive functions of the Union which are required to be
performed in a manner consistent with the fundamental rights. Article 51 of the Constitution of India concerned with "Promotion
of international peace and security" mandates that the State shall
endeavour to "foster respect for international law". The petitioners
also emphasise the Constitutional obligation of the respondents to
implement "any decision made at any international conference,
association or other body". In this regard, our attention is drawn to Articles 13(2) and (3)(a) , 14 , 15 (1) and (2) , 16(2) , 19 , 21 , 25(1) ,
29(1) , 38(1) , 39-A , 51(c) , 51-A(a) , (e), (f) and (h), and 253 of the
Constitution of India. 28. On or about 15th March, 1996, the UN High Commissioner
for Refugees (respondent no.6 herein), through the Canadian WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 13 of 51 Embassy in Bangkok, arranged to relocate the petitioner nos.1 and
2 in Canada. 29. On 27th June, 1996 the UNHCR in Bangkok wrote to the
Immigration Bureau in Bangkok requesting it to render assistance
to petitioner nos.1 and 2 who stood recognized as "refugees" under
the UNHCR mandate and accordingly deserving of the
international protection provided by the UNHCR. Copy of this
communication has been placed before us. This letter endorsed the
fact that UNHCR was providing basic care and maintenance which
was necessary for the petitioner nos.1 and 2 during their stay in
Thailand till they are deported to Canada. In this background, petitioner nos.1 and 2 landed in
Vancouver, Canada on 16th July, 1996 as landed immigrants and
were transported to Ottawa. 30. The above narration of events manifests that the
apprehensions of the petitioners were real and stand substantiated
by the fact that even before us, the respondents are unable to point
out a single step taken by them to comply with their assurance
given to this court on the 22nd of September 1995 in CWP
No.1651/95. The genuineness of the apprehensions is reinforced
by the acts and omissions qua the passport of the petitioner no.1,
some of which we noted hereafter. 31. The important fact brought out from the established
circumstances on record, which must be noted, is that there was no
volition in the petitioners' movement to Canada - they had no
choice or agency in the matter of seeking refuge from the UNHCR WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 14 of 51 or travelling to Canada at all. Impounding of the passport of petitioner no.1 32. As has been pointed out above, the passport no.R461568 of
petitioner no.1 required additional leaves. On the 8th of August
1996, the petitioner no.1 approached the respondent no.4 - High
Commission of India at Ottawa, Canada for this purpose and paid
the requisite fee. The petitioner no.1 has submitted that instead of
attaching the additional leaves to the petitioner's passport, the High
Commission simply appropriated the same and withheld petitioner
no.1's passport, refusing to listen to him and called upon him to
leave the Commission. No reasons were given to him for this
action. The petitioner no.1 lodged a strong protest by way of a
representation to the High Commission of India on 9th August,
1996 in respect of this action stating as follows : (Emphasis by us) 33. In response thereto, the High Commission of India issued a
letter dated 26th August, 1996 as to the petitioner no.1 stating : (Emphasis by us) 34. The petitioner no.1 points out that this is the first ever
intimation he got that his passport was impounded one year before.
The basis, reason or justification for the same was not disclosed.
No copy of the order dated 31st August, 1995 was enclosed. The
order had obviously been passed without opportunity to show
cause being served upon the petitioners. 35. Impounding of a passport is serious business which has
drastic consequence for its holder. It can be done only in
accordance with Section 10(3) of the Passports Act, 1967. We
extract the provisions of sub-sections (3), (5) and (6) of Section 10 of the Passports Act, 1967 which are relevant : Provided that if the holder of such passport obtains
 another passport the passport authority shall also impound
 or cause to be impounded or revoke such other passport. (c) if the passport authority deems it necessary so to do in
 the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the
 security of India, friendly relations of India with any
 foreign country, or in the interests of the general public; (d) if the holder of the passport or travel document has, at
 any time after the issue of the passport or travel document,
 been convicted by a court in India for any offence
 involving moral turpitude and sentenced in respect
 thereof to imprisonment for not less than two years; (e) if proceedings in respect of an offence alleged to have
 been committed by the holder of the passport or travel
 document are pending before a criminal court in India. (f) if any of the conditions of the passport or travel
 document has been contravened; (g) if the holder of the passport or travel document has
 failed to comply with a notice under sub-section (1)
 requiring him to deliver up the same; (h) if it is brought to the notice of the passport authority
 that a warrant or summons for the appearance, or a
 warrant for the arrest, of the holder of the passport or
 travel document has been issued by a court under any law
 for the time being in force or if an order prohibiting the
 departure from India of the holder of the passport or other
 travel document has been made by any such court and the
 passport authority is satisfied that a warrant or summons
 has been so issued or an order has been so made. xxx xxx xxx
 (5) Where the passport authority makes an order varying WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 17 of 51 or cancelling the endorsements on, or varying the
 conditions of, a passport or travel document under sub-
 section (1) or an order impounding or revoking a passport
 or travel document under sub-section (3), it shall record in
 writing a brief statement of the reasons for making such
 order and furnish to the holder of the passport or travel
 document on demand a copy of the same unless in any
 case, the passport authority is of the opinion that it will
 not be in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of
 India, the security of India. friendly relations of India
 with any foreign country or in the interests of the general
 public to furnish such a copy. (6) The authority to whom the passport authority is
 subordinate may, by order in writing, impound or cause
 to be impounded or revoke a passport or travel document
 on any ground on which it may be impounded or revoked
 by the passport authority and the foregoing provisions of
 this section shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to the
 impounding or revocation of a passport or travel
 document by such authority." (Emphasis supplied) 36. So far as "passport authority" is concerned, under Section
2(c) of the Passports Act, 1967, it is described thus : 37. We may also extract Rule 3 of the Passport Rules, 1980 and
Entry 27 of Schedule 1 which are relevant and read as follows : Further, sub- section 5 of Section 10 of the statute mandates that the
authority has to furnish a copy of the same to the holder. The
only exception to the furnishing of a copy is restricted to the
opinion of the passport authority that it will not be in the interests
of sovereignty, integrity, security of India, its friendly relations
with any foreign country or in the interests of the general public. It needs to be noted that, even if a copy is not to be
furnished, the mandate to record reasons is not obviated. Such
reasons must therefore, exist on official record. 39. One of us (Gita Mittal, J.) had occasion to consider the
jurisdiction of impounding of a passport, when its holder is in a
foreign country, and the impact thereof in the judgment dated 31st
May, 2005 in writ petition WP(C) No. 8682/2005 Adishri Saisha
Manan v. Union of India & Ors. In this case, the passport of the
petitioner, a minor child aged 7 years, was impounded by the
Indian Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand while she was in Thailand
with her mother. The petitioner's mother had submitted her
passport for renewal at the Indian Embassy at Bangkok, Thailand
and was scheduled to collect the same on the 24th of January,
2005. When the mother of the petitioner went to collect her
passport, the Embassy officials communicated that they had
instructions not to return the passport and the reasons for the same
could only be obtained from the Regional Passport Office at New
Delhi. A letter was addressed by the petitioner's mother to the
authorities but no reply thereon was received. The petitioner stood
rendered without a passport and was exposed to penal liability WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 20 of 51 under the Laws of Thailand as the Thai Visa (valid till July, 2005)
needed re-endorsement every 90 days with the Immigration Office
at Bangkok (the next endorsement due in the middle of March,
2005). An appeal was filed by the petitioner under Section 11 of
the Passport Act, 1967 before the Appellate Authority of the
Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi. The Ministry sent only an
acknowledgment after 20 days without fixing a date for hearing of
the appeal. The appeal stood dismissed on the 28 th April, 2005
without even affording the petitioner an opportunity of being heard.
It was in the order of dismissal of the appeal that the petitioner for
the first time got to know that her father had made some kind of a
complaint to the RPO, Delhi based whereon the Passport stood
impounded. In these circumstances, a writ petition came to be filed
in this court. 40. In the said case, it was noted that no notice to deliver up the
passport was issued to the petitioner or her mother in terms of Section 10 of the Passports Act, 1967. In this regard the following
observations are relevant and extracted in extenso hereunder : (Emphasis supplied)

 It was also noted in this judgment that the Government
proceeded in disposing off the Appeal without following the
mandate of Section 11 of the Passports Act, 1967 and the appellate
order was also quashed. The writ petition was disposed with inter
alia the following directions: 41. The impounding of passport has therefore, drastic
consequences especially, if you are outside the boundary of India.
There can be no compromise with statutory compliances for such
actions. 42. It is trite that reasons for impounding and refusal of issuance WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 23 of 51 of passport have to be communicated to the applicant. The law is
settled in this respect as was so held by this court in the judgment
reported at 1997 ( 41) DRJ 108 Hajra Iqbal Memon v. Union of
India . What to comment on the communication of such an order to
the petitioners, the Union of India could not even place such a
communication before this court, despite repeated court directions
in this regard. 43. It is trite that where law prescribes a procedure to be
followed, the same must be strictly abided by. Section 10 of the
Passports Act provides the procedure for impounding of the
passport. Passing an order after compliance with the requirement
of law, furnishing the order as well as the reasons for it, to the
person whose passport is impounded, has to be held to be a
requirement which cannot be permitted to be compromised under
any circumstances. The violation thereof as in the present case is a
complete illegality. 44. It is an admitted position that, till date, no order dated 31st
August, 1995 or of any other date ordering impounding the
passport has been communicated or furnished to the petitioner
no.1. No copy thereof has been produced by the respondents on
record. 45. The petitioner no.1 has submitted that even after 31st August,
1995 when the impounding order was allegedly made, he was
travelling on the same Indian passport no. R461568 without any
objection from any quarter. Four days after 22nd September, 1995
(when the proceedings in C.W.No.1651/95 came to an end), the WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 24 of 51 petitioner travelled to Bangkok on the 26th of September 1995 on
the same passport to join his wife. He moved openly and without
any hindrance or objection from any person or authority. 46. The petitioner points out that, pending decision of the
UNHCR on the above representations, on 8th December, 1995, the
petitioner no.1 had applied to the Indian Embassy at the Hague,
Netherlands, for additional pages to his passport, when the
petitioner no.1 had less than a month's visa for stay in the
Netherlands. The First Secretary in the Visa Section of the
Embassy (one Mr. Khanna) informed him that the Embassy was
under special instructions from the Government of India not to
issue additional visa leaves or to extend/renew his passport without
permission from India. In these circumstances, the petitioner
withdrew his application. Even on 8th December, 1995, no adverse order or any
objection with regard to the validity of the petitioner no.1's
passport was pointed out by the Indian Embassy in Netherlands. It
is submitted that this fact establishes that no such order dated 31 st
August, 1995 stands passed. 47. We may point out that the respondents failed to comply with
the order dated 14th August, 1995 in CWP No.1651/1995 directing
them to produce the record before the court. 48. On 6th of July 2017, in the present writ petition, we had
directed as follows : 2. It is further submitted by Mr. Ganesh that
 purportedly order dated 31.08.1995 impounding the
 passport of the petitioner No.1 thereof has till date not
 been furnished to him. 3. The original records relating to the above, are
 relevant for the purposes of our consideration and for
 adjudicating the present writ petition. 4. In view thereof, we direct as follows: List on 10.07.2017 for further arguments." (Emphasis by us) 49. Even our order dated 6th July, 2017, directing the
respondents to produce the original records, remains uncomplied
with till date. The order dated 31st August, 1995, if it actually exists, has,
therefore, not seen the light of day till date. 50. Even are not informed by the respondents about the date of
the order or the reasons for impounding the same. The letter dated
26th August, 1996 from the High Commission of India in Ottawa
makes a bare reference to the order of impounding dated 31st
August, 1995 having been passed under Section 10(c) of the Act.
No opinion however, stands mentioned that the copy of the order
ought not to be furnished to the passport holder as is required by
sub- section 5 of Section 10 of the Passport Act. As a result of the
actions of the Indian High Commission on 8th of August 1996, the
petitioner no.1, an Indian citizen, was thus stranded in Canada, a
foreign country without his passport. He remains clueless even on
date about the basis of or the reasons for the action of the
respondents. 51. We also fail to understand as to how the suggestion to the
petitioner in the letter dated 26th of August 1996 to seek judicial
review of the order of impounding could be a meaningful exercise
without furnishing a copy of the order in question to him. How
the petitioner no.1 would travel to India without a passport even to
exercise this option remains a mystery? 52. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 submit that it was only in the
above circumstances, created by the respondents themselves, that
they were compelled to continue to stay in Canada against their
wish. Whether the petitioner nos.1 and 2 voluntarily acquired
citizenship of Canada, if so, effect thereof 53. In this background, the petitioners complain that they were
consciously and illegally deprived of their documents of
identification. Finally the petitioner no.1 was compelled to seek
issuance of travel documents from the Canadian authorities. As a
result, a travel document dated 9th October, 1996 was issued by the
Canadian authorities to the petitioner no.1 which, given the
apprehension which had been expressed by the petitioner nos.1 and
2 for their stay in Canada, permitted him to travel to all countries
except to India. 54. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 were thereby prevented from
travelling to and living in India, their country of birth. They stood
separated from family and friends, a natural aspiration of every
human being. 55. Even thereafter, the petitioner nos.1 and 2 have waited more
than a reasonable period. More than eight years from 4th July,
1994, when the petitioner no.2 had made the application for
issuance of duplicate passport at Bangkok, only in the year 2002,
the petitioner no.2 was constrained to seek appropriate
documentation from the Canadian Authorities and on 17th June,
2002, a Canadian passport was issued to petitioner no.2. 56. So far as the petitioner no.1 is concerned, a Canadian
passport was issued to him only on 4th October, 2006, that is, more
than a decade after his Indian passport was detained by the High
Commission of India at Ottawa. 57. Even thereafter, the applications of petitioner nos.1 and 2 for
grant of visa to ever travel to India were also not favourably
considered by the respondents. The petitioners' applications for
grant of visa were returned by the order dated 1st December, 2009. 58. Again on 21st December, 2011, requests for visa were not
granted by the respondents without assigning any reason. In the
information accessed by the petitioners under the Right to
Information Act, 2005 the petitioners have been informed that
these were denied despite the respondents position that they were
"only an activist". 59. It was in this background that the writ petitioners were left
with no choice but file the present writ petition on 26th February,
2014 seeking the above prayers. 60. Interestingly, the respondents do not explain before us in
these proceedings, as to how, if the petitioner no.1's passport had
actually been impounded by an order passed on 31st August, 1995,
he was permitted to leave India on 26th September, 1995 after
passing of the order dated 22nd September, 1995 in CWP No.
1651/1995. 61. So far as the petitioner no.2 is concerned, in the counter
affidavit of 1995, the only allegation of the respondents was that
she was "accompanying her husband Luingam Luithui during his
travel to various countries in Asia and Europe". There was not
even a remote suggestion of illegality and impropriety in her
conduct. 62. Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld. ASG appearing for the respondents WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 29 of 51 submits that petitioner nos.1 and 2 having acquired/obtained
Canadian passports, they are deemed to have acquired the
citizenship of that country. In support of this submission, ld. ASG would rely upon the
provision of Section 3 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and Clauses 3,
5 and 6 of Schedule III to the Citizenship Rules, 2009. 63. Section 3 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 reads thus : 64. We may also extract Sections 8 , 9 and 10 of this enactment
which read as follows : 10. Deprivation of citizenship.―(1) A citizen of India who
 is such by naturalisation or by virtue only of clause (c) of article 5 of the Constitution or by registration otherwise
 than under clause (b)(ii) of article 6 of the Constitution or
 clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 5 of this Act, shall
 cease to be a citizen of India, if he is deprived of that
 citizenship by an order of the Central Government under
 this section. (2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Central
 Government may, by order, deprive any such citizen of
 Indian citizenship, if it is satisfied that― (a) the registration or certificate of naturalisation
 was obtained by means of fraud, false
 representation or the concealment of any material
 fact; or (b) that citizen has shown himself by act or speech
 to be disloyal or disaffected towards the
 Constitution of India as by law established; or (c) that citizen has, during any war in which India
 may be engaged, unlawfully traded or
 communicated with an enemy or been engaged in,
 or associated with, any business that was to his
 knowledge carried on in such manner as to assist an
 enemy in that war; or (d) that citizen has, within five years after
 registration or naturalisation, been sentenced in any WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 32 of 51 country to imprisonment for a term of not less than
 two years; or (e) that citizen has been ordinarily resident out of
 India for a continuous period of seven years, and
 during that period, has neither been at any time a
 student of any educational institution in a country
 outside India or in the service of a Government in
 India or of an international organisation of which
 India is a member, not registered annually in the
 prescribed manner at an Indian consulate his
 intention to retain his citizenship of India. (3) The Central Government shall not deprive a person of
 citizenship under this section unless it is satisfied that it is
 not conducive to the public good that person should
 continue to be a citizen of India. (4) Before making an order under this section, the Central
 Government shall give the person against whom the order
 is proposed to be made notice in writing informing him of
 the ground on which it is proposed to be made and, if the
 order is proposed to be made on any of the grounds
 specified in sub-section (2) other than clause (e) thereof, of
 his right, upon making application therefore in the
 prescribed manner, to have his case referred to a
 committee of inquiry under this section. (5) If the order is proposed to be made against a person on
 any of the grounds specified in subsection (2) other than
 clause (e) thereof and that person so applies in the
 prescribed manner, the Central Government shall, and in
 any other case it may, refer the case to a Committee of
 Inquiry consisting of a chairman (being a person who has
 for at least ten years held a judicial office) and two other
 members appointed by the Central Government in this
 behalf. (6) The Committee of Inquiry shall, on such reference,
 hold the inquiry in such manner as may be prescribed and
 submit its report to the Central Government; and the
 Central Government shall ordinarily be guided by such
 report in making an order under this section." 65. For expediency, we extract the relevant clauses of Schedule
III to the Citizenship Rules, 2009 which reads thus : 6. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 4, a
 citizen of India who leaves or has left India without a
 travel document issued by the Central Government and
 resides outside India for a period exceeding three years,
 shall be deemed to have voluntarily acquired the
 citizenship of the country of his residence." (Emphasis by us) 66. It is noteworthy that in the writ petition, ld. Senior Counsel
for the petitioners has laid a substantive challenge to the vires of
these Rules contending that they are ultra vires of the statute as WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 34 of 51 well as Articles 5 , 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. We make
it clear that we are not opining on this challenge for the purpose of
consideration of the prayer made before us inasmuch as the same is
completely unnecessary for the view we are taking. 67. No order stands passed by the Central Government under Section 10 of the Citizenship Act depriving the petitioner nos.1 and
2 of their Indian citizenship. 68. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 have also not made any
declaration renouncing their Indian Citizenship as required under Section 8 of the Act. 69. Given the plea set up by the respondent, it becomes
necessary to examine whether the acquisition of the Canadian
passports could be treated as the petitioner nos.1 and 2 voluntarily
having acquired the citizenship of another country, as envisaged
under Section 9 of the Act and therefore, ceased to be the Indian
citizens. 70. A conjoint reading of the provision of Clauses 3,5 and 6 of
Schedule III and the Rules, as they stand, shows that determination
by the Government of India of the fact as to whether the person
seeking citizenship under consideration has or has not "voluntarily"
acquired citizenship of any other country is postulated. 71. The issue that an act of acquisition of a passport of any other
country has ipso facto to be treated as conclusive proof of his
having acquired the citizenship of that country, necessarily entails
consideration of the issue as to whether such acquisition of
passport was also a voluntary act or the person of the citizen of WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 35 of 51 India and was not compelled by any relevant circumstances? We
have examined the facts of the present case so as to evaluate the
reasons for the petitioner nos.1 and 2 acquiring Canadian passports
and the impact thereof. 72. For this adjudication and assessment, let us examine the
response of the respondents to the filing of the writ petition.
Notice was issued in the writ petition by order dated 10th March,
2014. 73. An affidavit dated 14th July, 2014 stands filed under the
signature of Shri Pravin Horo Singh, Director, Ministry of Home
Affairs stating as follows : (Emphasis by us) 74. Advance copy of the writ petition was served on the
respondents firstly on 26th February, 2014. It took almost six
months thereafter, before even the letter dated 14th July, 2014 was
issued. Given the impact of the denial of the passports and, after
2002, the visas as well, and considering the nature of the rights
effected, this delay is also of significance. 75. Consequently, on the next date of hearing, that is, 15th July,
2014 time was sought by the petitioners to await further progress
regarding letter dated 14th July, 2014 of the Ministry of Home
Affairs, Government of India with regard to the visas to be issued
to them. 76. Clearly, it is only after filing of the present writ petition, that
the respondents took and implemented a decision to grant multiple
entry visa to the petitioner nos.1 and 2 as and when they applied for
the same to the Indian High Commission in Canada. 77. It is noteworthy that in para 1 of the writ petition, the
petitioners have stated that they are Indian citizens by birth. In the
counter affidavit filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the
respondents do not deny this averment. 78. So far as pleas of the petitioner with regard to entitlement to
Indian passports are concerned, the same are also not disputed
other than a plea we examine hereafter. 79. In the rejoinder filed by the petitioners, they have reiterated
the above narration of circumstances and the manner in which the
respondent no.1 and its agencies/instrumentalities left the petitioner
nos.1 and 2 no choice but to seek relief from the UNHCR which
arranged for their relocation to Canada 80. We may note that the respondents have attempted to explain
their non-action in the counter affidavit dated 21st April, 2015 filed
in the present writ petition, with the position that the petitioner no.2
did not approach the authorities for "emergency travel documents".
Before us, Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld. ASG submits that the petitioner no.2 WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 37 of 51 did not seek issuance of travel documents as assured by the
respondents in the hearing on 22nd September, 1995 in
C.W.No.1651/1995. Unfortunately, there is no explanation as to
why the application of the petitioner no.2 submitted on 4th July,
1996 for duplicate passport admittedly pending with the
respondents, also assured on 22nd September, 1995, was not
processed. The respondents give not a whit of an explanation for
impounding the passport of respondent no.1. No copy of the order
dated 31st August, 1995 is enclosed even with the counter affidavit
dated 21st of April 2015. 81. The petitioners have pointed out that the travel documents
offered by the respondents do not constitute alternative
documentation in lieu of the passport stricto sensu. 82. We may point out that the legislature has clearly
differentiated between different categories of documents under Section 4 of the Passports Act, 1967 and provided for both
passports and travel documents. Whereas classes of passports are
provided for in sub-section (1) of Section 4 , classes of travel
documents are provided for in sub-section (2) of Section 4 . For
convenience Section 4 is reproduced hereinbelow: 83. Clearly, the travel documents offered by the respondents
were in the nature of an ad hoc arrangement restricted to travel
between India and Bangkok, certainly not the documents of
identity and security as is the passport. There is no justification as
to why the petitioner should be so confined. It needs no elaboration
that emergency travel documents are not the documents that the
petitioner no.2 had applied on 4th July, 1994 and paid for. Such
documents are not, in any case, a replacement for a valid Indian
passport, which is the constitutional and legal right of the petitioner
no.2. 84. Therefore, clearly the failure of the respondent nos.1 to 4 to
process the application of petitioner no.2 for the duplicate passport
till date is arbitrary and completely illegal. There is not a whit of
explanation for the same in the counter affidavit which has been WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 39 of 51 filed on our record. 85. It is also important to note that in the counter affidavit dated
16th August, 1995 filed in CWP No.1651/1995, the respondent
nos.1 to 3 make no allegations of any illegal/criminal act against
the petitioner no.1. The counter affidavit merely contains a
suggestion that petitioner no.1 was "associated with some leaders
of an organization of the NSCN(I)(M) in Bangkok and has been
helping them". 86. So far as the counter affidavit dated 21st April, 2015, filed in
the present writ petition is concerned, the respondents do not make
such allegations. More so, it is an admitted position that since the
year 1996, the petitioner nos.1 and 2 have been living in Canada.
The respondents do not say that the petitioners have been
implicated in any criminal case, let alone stood trial or convicted in
any proceedings at any point of time, before July, 1994 till date. 87. Petitioner nos.1 and 2 are husband and wife. The
suggestions in the counter affidavit filed in CWP No.1651/1995 to
the effect that the petitioner no.1 was assisting active members of
the Naga organizations and that they were residing in Bangkok in
connection with activities related to this organization as well as the
course of events which has unfolded after the theft of the passport,
in fact, would lend support to the contention of Mr. M.S. Ganesh,
ld. Senior Counsel for the petitioners that there was an attempt to
keep the petitioners out of India. 88. We have extracted above certain incidents creating
apprehensions in the mind of the petitioners regarding the bona fide WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 40 of 51 of the respondents. The petitioner no.2 was without any documents
of identity and has additionally asserted that after the theft of her
passport and the failure of the respondents to issue a duplicate, she
was actually stateless exposing her to the risk of incarceration in
Bangkok and was therefore, compelled to approach the UNHCR
which facilitated her relocation to Canada for reasons of safety and
security. Apart from the threatening events complained of by the
petitioners, as her husband, the petitioner no.1 could not have
abandoned the petitioner no.2 and he also had no choice in the
matter. He was advised by the UNHCR to seek assistance as well
which he did on 13th November, 1995. 89. We have elaborately dwelt on the manner in which the
passport of the petitioner no.1 was taken away in 1996 by the
Indian High Commission without furnish reasons for the same.
Both the petitioners were not only rendered stateless and thereby
successfully prevented from travelling to their home land by the
respondents and were separated from their friends and family
members. The respondents are unable to place any valid
justification for the action taken by them depriving the petitioner
nos.1 and 2 of their passport and travel documents. In fact, but for
the acts of omission of the respondent nos.1 to 3 in the present
case, the petitioner nos.1 and 2 who were Indian citizens, were
actually entitled to their Indian passports. 90. In this background, it has to be held that the petitioner nos.1
and 2 were compelled by the acts and omissions of the respondent
no.1 to seek protection from the UNHCR in 1996, which relocated WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 41 of 51 them to Canada. Given the hopeless situation in which they were
placed, the petitioner nos.1 and 2 had no option but to seek
documents of identity from this country into which they stood
relocated in 1996, again not of their volition. 91. We may note that the petitioners have made every possible
efforts for issuance of the passport to the petitioner no.2 and release
of the passport of petitioner no.1, including approaching this court
by way of the writ petition of the petitioner no.1 aforesaid waiting
more than a reasonable time before seeking issuance of the
passports from the Canadian Authorities. As noted above, it was
after waiting for six years only on 17th June, 2002 when a Canadian
passport was issued to petitioner no.2. The petitioner no.2 waited
even longer - for a decade - till 4th October, 2006 when the
Canadian passport was issued to him. The above discussion would show that petitioner nos.1 and 2
in the present case had no option but to seek issuance of Canadian
passports. 92. We may note that the respondents are unable to point out
even a single voluntary act on the part of the petitioner nos.1 and 2
to renounce or relinquish their Indian citizenship or to acquire
Canadian citizenship. 93. The petitioner nos.1 and 2 were also prevented from
travelling to India. Only after filing of the writ petition in 2014,
they were given short term visas to visit India. 94. In this background, can it be reasonably held that the
petitioner nos.1 and 2 voluntarily acquired citizenship of Canada? The answer has unequivocally, to be in the negative. The
petitioner nos.1 and 2 have not renounced or relinquished the same
voluntarily at any point of time. For clarity, we hold and declare
that the acts of the petitioners in obtaining Canadian passports were
not voluntary acts as envisaged under Section 9 of the Citizenship
Act, 1955 and Clauses 3,5 and 6 of Schedule III to the Citizenship
Rules, 2009 but were compelled by the acts of omission of the
respondents. Legally, the petitioner no.1 is entitled to issuance of a
duplicate passport and the petitioner no.2 to return to his passport
by the respondents

Nature of rights involved - what is the impact of the impounding
of a passport 95. In the pronouncement reported at, AIR 1967 SC 1836
Satwant Singh Sawhney v. D. Ramarathnam, Assisstant Passport
Officer, Government of India, New Delhi & Ors , the Supreme
Court has recognized by majority that the right to travel abroad, is
included in the expression 'personal liberty', and flows from Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In this regard several views
of different High Courts were considered by the Apex Court and it
was concluded by K. Subba Rao, J. speaking for the majority, thus: 96. The view was affirmed with approval in the celebrated
pronouncement of Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India & Anr WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 43 of 51 [(1978) 1 SCC 248] in the following terms: (Emphasis by us) 97. It is also apposite to note the impact of impounding. In this
regard, we may refer to a judgment dated 19th December, 2008
rendered by one of us (Gita Mittal, J.) in WP(C) No. 9519/2007 Aditya Khanna v. Regional Passport Officer/Passport Authority where it was observed thus: (Emphasis by us) 98. It is therefore, trite that the right to travel flows from Article
21 of the Constitution of India. Further as a consequence of
impounding of the passport, only its custody passes into the hands
of the impounding authorities. Impounding does not tantamount to
revocation or cancellation of the passport. Its existence is not
extinguished. Conclusions 99. We therefore, conclude that so far as petitioner no.1 is
concerned, the only reason for impounding of his passport is a
reference to order dated 31st August, 1995 which has not been
produced. It has to be held that the passport of petitioner no.1 has
not been detained on any legally tenable ground and this court has
no option but to hold that no such order is in existence. If it does,
no material or basis for the same is disclosed. No opportunity to
show cause against it stands afforded to the petitioners. It clearly
cannot stand in law and is hereby quashed. 100. As a consequence, the petitioner no.1 becomes entitled to
release of his passport, wrongfully detained in 1996 by the Indian
High Commission in Ottawa, duly validated. 101. We may note that since August, 1996, when the passport of
the petitioner no.1 was impounded, till today, more than 21 years
have passed. Passports are issued with a validity date. We can
safely presume that the validity date of the original passport of the
petitioner no.1 would have lapsed and as a result, he is entitled to a
duly renewed valid passport. 102. As the respondents are unable to produce any records with
regard to the passport of petitioner no.1 or orders thereon, we are
left with no option but to presume that the same are not available. 103. We are also informed by Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld ASG that so far
as passport of petitioner no.1 is concerned, inasmuch as on account
of data upgradation of Ministry of External Affairs which was WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 46 of 51 effected in the year 2000, the necessary particulars of the passport
of the petitioner no.1 are also not available. Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld.
ASG submits that in this background, the petitioner no.1 be
required to make an application for issuance of a passport. It
appears to us that it would be appropriate to so direct, in order to
enable the respondents to compile a record. 104. So far as petitioner no.2 is concerned, she was admittedly
legally entitled to the duplicate passport. No justification is given
as to why her application for duplicate passport made on 4 th July,
1994 could not be processed. There is no reason at all as to why
the statement made on 22nd September, 1995 on behalf of the
respondent has not been complied with. Therefore, clearly the
application made on 4th July, 1994 has to be processed and a
duplicate passport has to be issued to petitioner no.2 in accordance
with law in compliance with the statement made on behalf of
respondents on 22nd September, 1995 in CWP No.1651/1995. 105. We are informed by Mr. Sanjay Jain ld. ASG for the
respondents on instruction of Mr. S.C. Solanki, Under Secretary,
Ministry of Home Affairs, who is present, that inasmuch as the
record of petitioner no.2 application at Bangkok is not traceable,
the petitioner no.2 may be called upon to submit a fresh
application. 106. Needless to say, this application has to relate back to the
application made on 4th July, 1994, which would of course have to
abide by the rules and procedure as were applicable today. 107. An apprehension is expressed by Mr. M.S. Ganesh, ld. Senior Counsel for the petitioners that the respondents had issued
look out circulars in respect of the petitioner nos.1 and 2 and that
their movements would be obstructed because of the pendency of
such circumstances. Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld. ASG informs us that he
has made inquiries and has instructions to state that at present there
are no look out circulars pending against the petitioner nos.1 and 2. We take this statement on record. 108. The deprivation in the present case is of the worst possible
kind. The citizens of India have actually, in effect been exiled
from their own country for a long period of almost 23 years from
the 2nd of July 1994 when the petitioner no.2 lost her passport and
duplicate thereof was denied to her which would have enabled her
to travel back. As a result, this couple has been deprived from
associating with their close family members and friends and
compelled to live in foreign countries without a break till visas
were issued to them in the present case. 109. To us, it is extremely distressing that two Indian citizens
have been constrained to seek refuge from the United Nations
Commission for Refugees and thereafter, when deprived of their
identities by the respondents, to seek passports from the Canadian
authorities. Can these deprivations ever be adequately compensated
in any terms? The answer has to be a clear no. 110. There is yet another reason which would discourage
us from exploring the path of awarding compensation to the
petitioner nos.1 and 2. More than anything else, they need
restoration of their ties with their country and family members. Any attempt at compensation and reparation may divert the process
of restoration of the passports to the petitioner nos.1 and 2.
Additionally before us, the respondents have taken a fair stand that
the passports of the petitioners, if applied for in terms of our
directions, would be processed in a time bound manner. Therefore,
to ensure the sole objective of expeditious processing of the
documents of the petitioner nos.1 and 2, we are refraining from
making any orders in this regard. 111. Before parting with this case, we may note that the present
case manifests the failure to abide with the mandate of the statute
as well as ignorance about the correct procedure, rights of the
citizens as well as the manner in which to deal with them on the
part of the official respondents which leads to gross errors having
serious repercussions to the persons affected. We also find that the
orders which may be correct or warranted in a case, would get
criticised upon a judicial review because of procedural infractions.
Acts and omissions of the respondents, as in the present case, also
have international ramifications. These could result in
embarrassments of the State across boundaries. Therefore,
sensitization of their officials on the issues, awareness and training
about the basic and relevant laws as well as procedures, both
statutorily prescribed or laid down by judicial precedents, deserves
the immediate attention of the authorities to ensure that such errors
are not repeated. Result 112. In view of the above we direct as follows:- 1 and 2 by the Indian High Commissioner at the Indian High
 Commission in Canada (respondent no.4 herein) against
 production of the certificate of renunciation of Canadian
 Citizenship issued by the Canadian authorities. (viii) The respondents would inform the Government of Canada
 through its High Commission at New Delhi (respondent
 no.7) of this order of this court. (ix) In case of any difficulty in working out this order, liberty is
 given to both sides to approach this court by way of an
 appropriate application. (x) Appropriate steps in terms of para 111 above be considered
 on priority and a view taken. This writ petition stands allowed in the above terms. Dasti to parties. ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

 C.HARI SHANKAR, J
 AUGUST 23, 2017
 mk/aj WP(C)No.1546/2014 Page 51 of 51