SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Hi /r/india, I am Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Member of Rajya Sabha and a strong supporter of Net Neutrality, AMA
DATE: 2015-06-02
SCORE: 318
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/387req/hi_rindia_i_am_rajeev_chandrasekhar_member_of/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am Rajeev Chandrasekhar. I am a second time, independent Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha from Bangalore. In the last 9 years in Parliament, I have taken up issues that range from the welfare of our Veterans and Armed forces, the Economy, Crony capitalists, push for Governance reforms, and also issues like the 2G and other scams.

I have a passion for all things Technology including internet and technology policy, and firmly believe that technology can transform Indian Politics and Governance, our democracy and lives of all citizens. I believe that an enabling internet policy ecosystem, including a neutral internet, is crucial to the success of Digital India.

I have worked as a Chip designer at Intel and worked on the 80486 and Pentium chips, Set up one of the first and largest Greenfield Indian cellular service BPL mobile, and then transitioned into being a technology entrepreneur. As an MP, I was also one of the petitioners in the Supreme Court PIL against the draconian Section 66A of the IT Act, which was struck down earlier this year.

I believe that the current debate on Net Neutrality is a result of the failure of our previous Governments r to initiate a robust multi-stakeholder discussion on Internet Governance model based structure for Internet Governance. For over three years now, I have argued that we must strive to create a multi-stakeholder based model for Internet Governance, which would have also resulted in a conclusion and debate of Net neutrality. 

I am doing this AMA to:
1.	Take a stab at addressing specific queries on the nuances of the Net Neutrality debate in India.
2.	Take any inputs from this chat back into Parliament and other interventions I shall be making with the Government on the issue, and
3.	Reinforce my commitment to the Net Neutrality fight and make my pro-neutrality position clear.
Here's a link that will take you to all my articles and interventions on Net Neutrality, including my 30 page submission to TRAI's infamous consultation paper: http://rajeev.in/NetNeutrality.html

I look forward to interacting with the community