37. Application of other laws not barred.—The provisions
 of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition
 to, and not in derogation of, the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
 1956), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of
 1956), the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
 Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) or any other law
 for the time being in force.”

61 Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul adverted to the above definition in the course of

the judgment. The Court noted the earlier decision in Transcore vs Union of India31 holding that by virtue of Section 37 , the SARFAESI Act is in addition to and not in

derogation of the provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial

Institutions Act 1993 (“RDDB Act”). The “only twist” was that instead of the recovery

process being under the RDDB Act, the Court was concerned with an arbitration

proceeding. In this context, the Court observed: 62 In KSL and Industries Limited vs Arihant Threads Limited32 (“KSL and

Industries” ), a three judge Bench of this Court considered a reference made by a

two judge Bench following a difference of opinion on the interpretation of Section 34

of the RDDB Act. In that case, the High Court had set aside the order of the Debts

Recovery Appellate Tribunal, in view of the bar contained in Section 22 of the Sick

Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act 1985 (“(SICA”). Section 32 of the

SICA contained a provision giving overriding force notwithstanding anything

inconsistent contained in any other law except the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act 1973 and the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act 1976, among other

instruments. Section 32(1) was as follows: “36 [Ed.: Para 36 corrected vide Official Corrigendum No.
 F.3/Ed.B.J./61/2014 dated 25-11-2014.] . Sub-section (2)
 was added to Section 34 of the RDDB Act w.e.f. 17-1-2000 by
 Act 1 of 2000. There is no doubt that when an Act provides,
 as here, that its provisions shall be in addition to and not in
 derogation of another law or laws, it means that the
 legislature intends that such an enactment shall coexist along
 with the other Acts. It is clearly not the intention of the
 legislature, in such a case, to annul or detract from the
 provisions of other laws. The term “in derogation of” means
 “in abrogation or repeal of”. The Black's Law Dictionary sets
 forth the following meaning for “derogation”: 161 63 To complete this trinity of judgments between 2015 and 2019, there is a three

judge Bench decision of this Court in Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure

Limited vs Union of India33 . This Court considered a challenge to the constitutional

validity of the amendments made in 2018 to the IBC 2016, pursuant to a report of

the Insolvency Law Committee. Under the amended provisions, allottees of real

estate projects were deemed to be financial creditors, triggering the applicability of

the Code to real estate developers. The three judge Bench considered, in the course

of its decision, the provisions of the RERA. The Court adverted to the provisions of

Sections 88 and 89 of the RERA on the one hand and to Section 238 of the IBC

which is in the following terms: In this backdrop, the Court did not accept the submission that RERA being a special

enactment would have precedence over the IBC which is a general enactment

dealing with insolvency. In this backdrop, the Court observed: (2000) 10 SCC 115 168 PART H

67 Another two judge Bench of this Court in Yakub Abdul Razak Memon vs

State of Maharashtra37 , while construing the provisions of the Juvenile Justice

(Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and its interplay with Terrorist and

Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 , speaking through Justice P Sathasivam

(as the learned Chief Justice was then), held: 68 In Union Territory of Chandigarh vs Rajesh Kumar Basandhi38, Justice

Brijesh Kumar considered the expression “for the time being in force” in the law

lexicon and held that it must be interpreted keeping in mind the context in which it is

used: It is also evident that generally it denotes an indefinite period
 of time, meaning thereby, the position as existing at the time
 of application of the rules, maybe, amended or unamended.
 Therefore, to come to a conclusion as to whether it is for one
 time or for indefinite period of time, the context, purpose and
 the intention of the use of the phrase will have to be seen and
 examined.”

69 Similarly, in Department of Customs vs Sharad Gandhi39 , a two judge

Bench of this Court considered a case where the respondent had been discharged

of offences under Sections 132 and 175 of the Customs Act, 1962. The Additional

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate allowed an application for discharge holding that there

was a complete bar with regard to prosecution under the Customs Act, 1962 , and

that the Collector of Customs only had the power to confiscate the goods and

impose a penalty for a breach of Section 3 of the Antiquities and Art Treasurers Act,

1972. Amongst other issues, the Bench had to interpret the meaning of Section 30 of the Antiquities and Art Treasurers Act, 1972, which reads as follows: Despite the passage of the Antiquities Act, a prosecution
for instance would be maintainable if a case is otherwise
made out under the two enactments in relation to
antiquity. The Antiquities Act in other words is not to be
in derogation of those provisions. They were to
supplement the existing laws. It is therefore in the same
context that we should understand the words “any other
law for the time being in force”. For instance, there may be
laws made by the State Legislatures which relate to antiquity.
There may be any other law which deal with a subject with a
common genus of which the specific law would be an integral
part. It is all such laws which legislature intended to
comprehend within the expression “any other law for the time
being in force”. Take for example, a case where there is a
theft of an antiquity. Can it be said that the prosecution under
Section 379 would not be maintainable. The answer will be an
emphatic No. Certainly, the prosecution will lie. The Sale of
Goods Act, 1930 which relates to movable items generally will
be applicable, to the extent that it is not covered by any
provision in the Acts in question. The Contract Act, 1872 may
continue to be applicable. But it is not the question of applying
general laws that engage the attention of the legislature. The
intention behind Section 30 was as noted is to provide
for any other law which deal with antiquity to continue to
have force and declare its enforceability even after
passing of the Antiquities Act. In that view of the matter
we are of the view that the words “any other law for the
time being in force” must be construed as ejusdem
generis.”

 (emphasis supplied) 171 PART H

70 These decisions indicate that the expression “any other law for the time being

in force” does not necessarily mean, such laws as were in existence when the

statutory provision was enacted. To the contrary, it widely considered to means not

just the laws which were in existence when the statutory provision was enacted but

also such laws which may come into existence at a later stage. On the other hand,

another line of judicial precedent also suggests the meaning to be ascribed to the

expression must bear color from the context in which it appears, and not devoid of it.

71 For instance, in National Insurance Company Limited vs Sinitha40 , in the

context of a policy of insurance, the expression “for the time being in force” was held

to mean provisions then existing. The decision related to Sections 144 and 163A of

the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in which Section 163A was subsequently inserted. In

the context of adjustment of compensation, a two judge Bench of this Court held that

Section 144 would not override Section 163A because of the use of the expression

“laws for the time being in force” would encompass only existing provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 , and not those inserted in the Act later. Speaking for the

Bench, Justice JS Khehar (as the learned Chief Justice was then) observed: 17. As against the aforesaid, at the time of incorporation of Section 163-A of the Act, Sections 140 and 144 of the Act
 were already subsisting, as such, the provisions of Section
 163-A which also provided by way of a non obstante clause,
 that it would have by a legal fiction overriding effect over all
 existing provisions under the Act as also any other law or
 instrument having the force of law “for the time being in
 force”, would have overriding effect, even over the then
 existing provisions in Chapter X of the Act because the same
 was already in existence when Section 163-A was introduced
 into the Act.”

This again indicates that it is the statutory context and scheme which will determine

the nature and ambit of the expression “any other law for the time being in force”.

72 In the case of the RERA, the expression “law for the time being in force” is

used in Section 89 as well as in Section 2(zr) and Section 18(2) . Section 2(zr) , as

noticed earlier, stipulates that words and expression used in the Act, but not defined

in it and defined in any law for the time being in force or in municipal laws or other

relevant laws of the appropriate government, shall have the meaning assigned to

them in those laws. Evidently, a law for the time being in force in Section 2(zr) is not

frozen in point of time as on the date of the enactment of RERA. Likewise, Section 173 PART H

18(2) of the RERA imposes an obligation to the promoter to compensate allottees

for the loss caused due to a defective title to the land and the provision stipulates

that the claim for compensation shall not be barred by limitation provided “under any

law for the time being in force”. However, in Section 89, “law for the time being in

force” is used in general sense of all the provisions of the Act, vis-à-vis, provisions of

other Acts. H.3.3 Knitting it together

73 From our analysis of the provisions of RERA on the one hand and of WB-

HIRA on the other, two fundamental features emerge from a comparison of the

statutes. First, a significant and even overwhelmingly large part of WB-HIRA

overlaps with the provisions of RERA. These provisions of the RERA have been

lifted bodily, word for word and enacted into the State enactment. Second, in doing

so, WB-HIRA does not complement the RERA by enacting provisions which may be

regarded as in addition to or fortifying the rights, obligations and remedies created

by the Central enactment. The subject of the provisions of the State enactment is

identical, the content is identical. In essence and substance, WB-HIRA has enacted

a parallel mechanism and parallel regime as that which has been entailed under the

RERA. The State legislature has, in other words, enacted legislation on the same

subject matter as the Central enactment. Not only is the subject matter identical but

in addition, the statutory provisions of WB-HIRA are on a majority of counts identical

to those of the RERA. Both sets of statutes are referable to the same entries in the 174 PART H

Concurrent List – Entries 6 and 7 of List III – and the initial effort of the State of West

Bengal to sustain its legislation as a law regulating ‘Industry” within the meaning of

Entry 24 of List II has been expressly given up before this Court (as we have

explained, for valid reasons bearing on the precedents of this Court).

74 In assessing whether this overlap between the statutory provisions of WB-

HIRA and the RERA makes the former repugnant to the latter within the meaning of

that expression in clause (1) of Article 254 , it becomes necessary to apply the

several tests which are a part of our constitutional jurisprudence over the last seven

decades. Repugnancy can be looked at from three distinct perspectives. The first is

where the provision of a State enactment is directly in conflict with a law enacted by

Parliament, so that compliance with one is impossible along with obedience to the

other. The second test of repugnancy is where Parliament through the legislative

provisions contained in the statute has enacted an exhaustive code. The second test

of repugnancy is based on an intent of Parliament to occupy the whole field covered

by the subject of its legislation. In terms of the second test of repugnancy, a State

enactment on the subject has to give way to the law enacted by Parliament on the

ground that the regulation of the subject matter by Parliament is so complete as a

code, so as to leave no space for legislation by the State. The third test of

repugnancy postulates that the subject matter of the legislation by the State is

identical to the legislation which has been enacted by Parliament, whether prior or

later in point of time. Repugnancy in the constitutional sense is implicated not

because there is a conflict between the provisions enacted by the State legislature 175 PART H

with those of the law enacted by Parliament but because once Parliament has

enacted a law, it is not open to the State legislature to legislate on the same subject

matter and, as in this case, by enacting provisions which are bodily lifted from and

verbatim the same as the statutory provisions enacted by Parliament. The overlap

between the provisions of WB-HIRA and the RERA is so significant as to leave no

manner of doubt that the test of repugnancy based on an identity of subject matter is

clearly established. As the decision in Innoventive Industries (supra) emphasizes,

laws under this head are repugnant even if the rule of conduct prescribed by both

the laws is identical. This principle constitutes the foundation of the rule of implied

repeal. The present case is not one where WB-HIRA deals not with matters which

form the subject matter of the Parliamentary legislation but with other and distinct

matters of a cognate and allied nature. WB-HIRA, on the contrary, purports to

occupy the same subject as that which has been provided in the Parliamentary

legislation. The state law fits, virtually on all fours, with the footprints of the law

enacted by Parliament. This is constitutionally impermissible. What the legislature of

the State of West Bengal has attempted to achieve is to set up its parallel legislation

involving a parallel regime. 75 But the submission which has been articulately presented before the Court on

behalf of the State of West Bengal is that Section 88 of the RERA itself allows for

the existence of State statutes by enacting Sections 88 and 89, which stipulate that

its provisions shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of any

other law for time being in force and override only inconsistent provisions. For the 176 PART H

purpose of the present discussion, we may accept the hypothesis of the State of

West Bengal that the expression “any other law for the time being in force” does not,

in the context of Section 88, imply the applicability of the provision only to laws

which had been enacted before the RERA. Conceivably, as the judgments of this

Court construing similar expressions indicate, the trend has been to broadly

configure the meaning of the expression by extending it to laws which were in

existence and those which may be enacted thereafter. In other contexts, such an

interpretation has not been accepted but, for the purpose of the discussion, we will

proceed on the hypothesis which has been put forth by the State of West Bengal

that ‘law for the time being in force’ within the meaning of Section 88 would also

include subsequent legislation. The submission is that since Section 88 allows for

the existence of other laws by adopting the ‘in addition to and not in derogation of’

formula, Parliament did not intend to exclude State legislation even though it is

identical to that which has been enacted by Parliament. This submission is also

sought to be buttressed by adverting to Section 92 of the RERA, under which only

the Maharashtra Act was repealed. 76 Now, in assessing the correctness of the submission, it is necessary to

construe Section 88 in its proper perspective. Unless this is done, the Court would

be doing violence to the intent of Parliament and to the constitutional principles

which are embodied in Article 254. Parliament envisaged in Section 88 of the RERA

that its provisions would be in addition to and not in derogation of other laws for the

time being in force. True enough, this provision is an indicator of the fact that 177 PART H

Parliament has not intended to occupy the whole field so as to preclude altogether

the exercise of legislative authority whether under other Central or State

enactments. For instance, Section 71 of the RERA specifically contemplates (in the

proviso to sub-Section (1)) that a complaint in respect of matters covered by Sections 12 , 14 , 18 and 19 is pending in the adjudicating fora constituted by the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 . The person who has moved the consumer forum

may withdraw the complaint and file an application before the adjudicating officer

constituted under the RERA. The effect of Section 88 is to ensure that remedies

which are available under consumer legislation, including Consumer Protection Act,

2019 , are not ousted as a consequence of the operation of the RERA. Of course, it

is also material to note that both sets of statutes, namely the Consumer Protection

Act (s) and the RERA, have been enacted by the Parliament and both sets of

statutes have to be therefore harmoniously construed. Section 88 of the RERA does

not exclude recourse to other remedies created by cognate legislation. Where the

cognate legislation has been enacted by a State legislature, Section 88 of the RERA

is an indicator that Parliament did not wish to oust the legislative power of the State

legislature to enact legislation on cognate or allied subjects. In other words, spaces

which are left in the RERA can be legislated upon by the State legislature by

enacting a legislation, so long as it is allied to, incidental or cognate to the exercise

of Parliament’s legislative authority. What the State legislature in the present case

has done is not to enact cognate or allied legislation but legislation which, insofar as

the statutory overlaps is concerned is identical to and bodily lifted from the

Parliamentary law. This plainly implicates the test of repugnancy by setting up a 178 PART H

parallel regime under the State law. The State legislature has encroached upon the

legislative authority of Parliament which has supremacy within the ambit of the

subjects falling within the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule. The exercise

conducted by the State legislature of doing so, is plainly unconstitutional.

77 The statutory overlaps between WB-HIRA and the RERA cannot be

overlooked, as noted above. But quite apart from that, there is an additional reason

why the test of repugnancy engrafted in clause (1) of Article 254 is attracted. This is

because several provisions of the WB-HIRA are directly in conflict and dissonance

with the RERA. Where a State enactment in the Concurrent List has enacted or

made a statutory provision which is in conflict with those which have been enacted

by Parliament, it may in a given case be possible to excise the provision of the State

statute so as to bring it into conformity with the Parliamentary enactment. But the

present case, as we shall demonstrate, involves a situation where valuable

safeguards which are introduced by Parliament in the public interest and certain

remedies which have been created by Parliament are found to be absent in WB-

HIRA. This is indicated from the following provisions: (iv) Section 38(3) of the RERA empowers the real estate regulatory authority in a

 monopoly situation to make a suo motu reference to the Competition

 Commission of India. No such provision is made in the State enactment. 180 PART H

 Hence, a valuable safeguard to protect home buyers in the RERA has been

 omitted. Section 38(3) of the RERA is in the following terms: The membership of the Central Advisory Council is stipulated in Section

 41(3) . Section 41 provides as follows: PART H (vii) Section 71(1) of the RERA provides that the regulatory authority shall appoint

 adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging compensation under Sections 12 , 14 , 18 and 19 . The adjudicating officer is required to be a person

 who is or has been a District Judge. WB-HIRA does not contain any provision

 for appointment of adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging

 compensation. Under Section 40(3) of WB-HIRA, this power is entrusted to

 the regulatory authority and not to a judicial person or body. The fact that an

 appeal against the orders of the regulatory authority lie to the Appellate

 Tribunal and thereafter to the High Court cannot gloss over the fact that the

 valuable safeguard of appointing judicial officers as adjudicating officers for

 determining compensation under the RERA has not been enacted in WB-

 HIRA; and (viii) Section 80(2) of the RERA provides that no Court inferior to a Metropolitan

 Magistrate or JMFC shall try an offence punishable under the Act. No such

 provision is contained in WB-HIRA. 78 The above analysis indicates an additional reason why there is a repugnancy

between WB-HIRA and RERA- the above provisions of the State enactment are

directly in conflict with the Central enactment. Undoubtedly, as Article 254(1) postulates, the legislation enacted by the State legislature is void “to the extent of

the repugnancy”. But the above analysis clearly demonstrates that in material

respects, WB-HIRA has failed to incorporate valuable institutional safeguards and

provisions intended to protect the interest of home-buyers. The silence of the State 184 PART H

legislature in critical areas, as noted above, indicates that important safeguards

which have been enacted by Parliament in the public interest have been omitted in

the State enactment. There is, in other words, not only a direct conflict of certain

provisions between the RERA and WB-HIRA but there is also a failure of the State

legislature to incorporate statutory safeguards in WB-HIRA, which have been

introduced in the RERA for protecting the interest of the purchasers of real estate. In

failing to do so, the State legislature has transgressed the limitations on its power

and has enacted a law which is repugnant to Parliamentary legislation on the same

subject matter. HIRA had not received the President’s assent under Article 254(2) of the

Constitution, which was necessary since it was going the occupy the same field as

the RERA, a law which had been enacted by the Parliament. This becomes

important since a Constitution Bench of this Court in Rajiv Sarin v. State of

Uttarakhand41 (“Rajiv Sarin”), speaking through Justice Mukundakam Sharma, has

held the two requirements for repugnancy under Article 254 to be as follows: 215-16 as follows: Reservation for consideration is not an empty formality.
 Pointed attention of the President is required to be drawn
 to the repugnancy between the earlier law made by
 Parliament and the contemplated State legislation and
 the reasons for having such law despite the enactment
 by Parliament. (b) The word ‘assent’ used in clause (2) of Article 254 would
 in context mean express agreement of mind to what is
 proposed by the State. (c) In case where it is not indicated that ‘assent’ is qua a
 particular law made by Parliament, then it is open to the Court
 to call for the proposals made by the State for the
 consideration of the President before obtaining assent. 3. Extending the duration of a temporary enactment does not
 amount to enactment of a new law. However such extension
 may require the assent of the President in case of
 repugnancy.”” (emphasis supplied)

As such, it is abundantly clear that the State of West Bengal would have had to seek

the assent of the President before enacting WB-HIRA, where its specific repugnancy

with respect to RERA and its reasons for enactment would have had to be specified. 187 PART I

Evidently, this was not done. However, since we have already held WB-HIRA to be

repugnant to RERA, this issue becomes moot. Act. Upon receiving the assent of the President, the Act was published in the

Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary on 9 March 1994. Some of the salient provisions of

the Act are detailed below: PART I (viii) Section 10 requires the formation of a co-operative society; (ix) Section 11 provides for the promoter to covey title to the co-operative society; (x) Section 12 provides for insurance against loss or death; (xiii) Section 15 provides for rule making powers; (xiv) Section 16 provides for exemption to constructions by the State Government

 Housing Board and by the Housing and Urban Development Corporation; and (xv) Section 17 provides for repeals and the earlier legislation of 1972 is repealed.

The above provisions are repugnant to the corresponding provisions which are

contained in the RERA. These provisions of the WB 1993 Act impliedly stand

repealed upon the enactment of the RERA in 2016, in accordance with Sections 88

and 89 read with Article 254(1) of the Constitution. Hence, we clarify with abundant

caution that our striking down of the provisions of WB-HIRA in the present judgment

will not, in any manner, revive the WB 1993 Act, which was repealed upon the

enactment of WB-HIRA since the WB 1993 Act is itself repugnant to the RERA, and

would stand impliedly repealed. 83 For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that WB-HIRA is

repugnant to the RERA, and is hence unconstitutional. We also hold and declare

that as a consequence of the declaration by this Court of the invalidity of the

provisions of WB-HIRA, there shall be no revival of the provisions of the WB 1993

Act, since it would stand impliedly repealed upon the enactment of the RERA. 189 PART I

84 Since its enforcement in the State of West Bengal, the WB-HIRA would have

been applied to building projects and implemented by the authorities constituted

under the law in the state. In order to avoid uncertainty and disruption in respect of

actions taken in the past, recourse to the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142 is necessary. Hence, in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142 , we direct that

the striking down of WB-HIRA will not affect the registrations, sanctions and

permissions previously granted under the legislation prior to the date of this

judgment

85 The writ petition is accordingly stand allowed in the above terms.

86 Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. …………...…...….......………………........J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …..…..…....…........……………….…........J.
 [M R Shah]
New Delhi; May 4, 2021 190