SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Opinion of a post COVID USA.
DATE: 2021-09-22
SCORE: 13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/psz7sg/opinion_of_a_post_covid_usa/

--- POST TEXT ---

A lot of people wish to leave and India and settle in other countries that they believe is far better and they aren't wrong. And USA is always the prime destination for obvious reasons. But COVID and Trump have made me think it is way more similar to India with the only difference being they have more money and resources to get things done and retain people to do things. And here on Reddit you see so much negative stuff about how messed up USA is. Yes it's an echo chamber but also they echo what is happening. Things like attacking doctors and nurses as part of a conspiracy is like attacking doctors here in India for "failing" to save their patients. The politicians also seem illiterate and fake like in India. Their sense of entitlement is also similar. But the thing is I expected them to handle COVID easily while I knew in my heart India will suffer. Not to mention how easy it is for their economy to suffer and how many complain about health costs and insurance and rent etc etc it feels like a lot of immigrants know how to live successfully in USA than the typical native American (native as in white)! I don't think anyone cared if the virus is fake or real here but since we are Nation of day to to day survivors anyone had the time to argue this while people were dying unlike in the USA who are still arguing over masks and vaccines and what not and that is nearly half of their population I think. So I wonder what do you guys think? Would you settle over there? If you do would you be middle class or the rich according to their standards? Is it worth it if they just fight over common sense things? They shout they are better than everyone but attack their own scientists and doctors and call them killers and traitors. They openly say those who die of the virus deserved it! And they don't care and would rather continue their jobs and lives instead of working together...the us response to covid is like this: you accidentally cut your finger in the kitchen so you let the wound and bleeding get bad and focus on calling the manufacturer a fraud/killers, you call the doctors frauds and in pocket of the knife company and complain when they have to amputate your fingers or worse your hand! And you do this all your life.