SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Help] Help with PAN Card + Other related questions (urgent)
DATE: 2018-04-01
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/88qdz7/help_help_with_pan_card_other_related_questions/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello! I've been a lurker on various sub-reddits for a long time, but this is the first post I'm making here. I need help from my fellow Indians to navigate my way through this murky territory of sorting out official documentation in India. This may end up becoming quite a long post, since I have some auxiliary questions besides the one stated in the title, so bear with me please. I'll provide a rough sketch of events.

I wanted/needed to apply for a PAN card to create accounts on online payment processors like Payza and PayPal, to receive payments from foreign entities for the work that I do. Outside my college hostel is a Stationary Store cum printout/xerox store, the types common outside many big educational establishments. I originally went there to have my passport size photographs printed out, but the guy informed me that they offer services for PAN card application as well. 

So I fill out the form at his his store, sign my photograph pasted to it, and leave with a xerox of the Aadhaar card with him. A few days later, he sees me passing by and approaches me, saying that my "application was sent back" because my birth day and month (specifically those, no others) are absent from the card (the birthyear's on it), and he says I have to have those updated to apply for the PAN card. He refers me to a nearby local setup which offers similar services e.g. PAN card application, but also which also do Aadhar card updates/correction. First day I go there, they say Aadhar correction is done on Tuesdays and Fridays only. Also the man there (probably the owner) tells me to bring a birth proof; says since I'm 18+ Birth Certificate is no longer valid, and thus to bring my Higher Secondary admit card/official educational documents that has the full birth date printed out. 

So I return on Tuesday. It's nearly closing hours but there's a lot of hustle bustle at the store. I fill out the form, and after some wait hand it over to the guy (different guy from last day, probably his helper). He asks for my Aadhar card, examines it, and says I need to bring a Proof of Address e.g. electricity bill, ration card, Voter ID card etc. I ask what for, he says five things on the card are to be updated:

a) Birth date
b) Phone number (first time registration, no phone number linked with Aadhaar currently)
c) Father's name (Father passed away, so from Mr X to Late Mr X)
d) Email ID (fresh link)
e) Something biometric, no clue what, says "Biometric is compulsory now" and leaves it at that

I ask what my address proof has to do with any of this, he says my father's name will be not be on the fresh card if I don't provide a proof of address. I further ask what the proof of address has to do with my father's name, but he smiles and says he'll explain everything next time. * rolls eyes *

As I'm in college, I don't have any of those yet. I had a passport made when I was younger, but it has expired now. He tells me to bring a certificate from a local counselor as proof of address. 

I remember having tried to apply for a PAN card online, but the problem (error on the screen) was that my phone number isn’t linked to my Aadhaar. Now I’m thinking I’ll get that done first, then apply for the PAN card online – have it paid for by a parent’s or a friend’s bank account. 

Now my questions:

a) Is this a valid path to follow to avoid these offline hassles: First add phone number to Aadhaar card, then apply for PAN card online. 
If yes, is the article on the Economic Times website on how to link the two (aadhaar and phone no.) valid? 

If yes, then the article says that I’ll have to submit a proof of identity along with a photocopy of my Aadhar card. The list of supported documents includes “Photo ID issued by Recognized Educational Institution”. So will a photocopy of higher secondary school ID card work?

b) At steps of this process – first at the store outside my hostel, then the second – I smelt some bullshitting. Could be my paranoia, could be more legit than a false alert from my Spidey senses. How much of the information I was provided (e.g. day/month requirement for PAN card) was actually legit, and not just something made up or spilled out to misdirect me? Which of them could possibly be misleading information?

c) Now one place has my Aadhar card Xerox (and the signed application for the PAN card with a signed photograph), another place probably has my Aadhar card no. What kind of mischief/criminal activities can be done with these? I was reading about how an Aadhar card no/Xerox can be used to obtain a SIM card against my name without my knowledge. How do I safegaurd against this?

On the subject of safegaurding, I read something about locking my Biometrics once my phone number is linked, can someone please explain that?

d) The guys on the inside (e.g. the guys running shop) may have the right answers, but it doesn’t take a Sherlock to figure out that they have every incentive to lie left, right, and center, the potential payoffs to a successful fraud/scam run being so huge. More of a rant than a legit question, but why the F**K isn’t there a condensed source of information for the above?

Well that’s about it… if you’ve read this far, thank you! Most people would stop by to spare a rupee to a poor cripple, let alone read a long-a** for random guy on the Internet. 

I’m taking the trouble to go through all this mainly because I’m going to be working online quite a bit, and want my finances flowing as smooth as possible. Also plan to launch a (small) startup soon. Oh speaking of which,

e) What else should a wannabe-high-roller (like yours truly *ehm* ) know about relevant systems in India? Resources/tools/names/companies of anything I should know about like payment processors, local groups and communities, legal/documentation help resources and helplines, whatever. 

I have no one to help me on these things which is why I’m turning to reddit, the giant melting pot of active minds across the globe. Please fill in with whatever information you, or somebody you know, has, since I'm actually on some tight deadlines money-wise. 

Thank you once again for reading!

EDIT: Just realized, if it's not cool to ask everything at once, mod's please inform, I will gladly create separate threads.