V.K.Bali,C.J. A partnership firm with the name and style "M/s.LIS, Ernakulam" is said to

be conducting the business of making available Government lottery tickets to the

public under the Multi Level Marketing principle in partnership. As per its own

showing, the partnership has registered three lakhs members in the scheme

evolved by it. Though it is not mentioned in sufficient details in the writ petitions

or criminal miscellaneous case, but as revealed during the investigation and not

disputed during the course of arguments, the managing committee of the trust

stated to be P.V.Chacko, Kuriachan Chacko and Joy John met on 11.11.2002

and decided to permit Kurian Chacko to conduct lottery ticket business in the

brand name LIS. Kurian Chacko was to conduct the business of his own either

as a proprietory concern or as a partnership or as a limited company. Kuriachan

Chacko had to make available necessary funds for the trust and its members. In

pursuance of the resolution, Kuriachan Chacko along with one Achamma W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 2 Chacko and Linu Joy who are wives of the trustees of the trust formed a

partnership vide Deed dated 12.11.2002. The name of the firm as per the deed

is M/s.LIS, Ernakulam and the registered office of the firm is stated to be that of

the office of the trust itself. The partnership deed further provides that the main

business of the firm shall be arranging online and paper lottery tickets to the

public. The firm is seen registered with the Registrar of Firms, Trivandrum on

26.11.2002 with No. 1741/02 and the duration of the firm is stated to be five

years. As per the certificate issued by the Registrar of Firms the name of the

firm is M/s.LIS with three partners Kuriachan Chacko, Achamma Chacko and

Linu Joy. The firm LIS (Regd) is conducting Prize Chits and Money Circulation

Scheme throughout the State of Kerala in the name LIS Deepasthambam

Project. The business of these persons claimed to be genuine, even though

styled by the investigating agency as under the bogus name LIS (Regd), is

making advertisement in all leading dailies and through visual medias offering

fabulous returns for deposits from the public. The nature of business is that an

individual has to deposit Rs.625/- per unit or multiplies thereof. For each unit a

member is given lottery ticket worth Rs.350/- purchased over 35 weeks at

Rs.10/- per week and subscribes Rs.275/- to a magazine called 'Trikalam'

alleged to be published by LIS Printers and

Publishers. Besides the above, they offer Rs.1052/- to every member holding

one unit, the details of which are as follows: W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 3 After investigation of the above crimes, business in Karnataka, as per the case

of the third respondent, seems to be closed for ever. The modus operandi in

Kerala State is by advertisement that LIS (Regd) has a registered office at

Bangalore and administrative office at Palackal Court, M.G.Road, Ernakulam.

The investigation so far conducted reveals that there is no entity called LIS

(Regd) and it is not having a registered office in Bangalore or administrative

office at Ernakulam. Vide letter dated 17.5.2006 the District Registrar,

Ernakulam has informed that eleven new charitable trusts in the name LIS

Charitable Trust are registered in 2005 at Sub Registrar's office, Ernakulam. It is

also revealed that settler of the above trust deed is one P.V.Chacko. The

activities of the above 11 trusts are under investigation. According to the

respondent the above facts would disclose offences under Section 2(e) and 2(c) of the Act and also Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Act of 1978. Central Police

Station, Ernakulam has registered a crime and pursuant to the directions issued W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 11 by the Reserve Bank of India to the Director General of Police, Kerala, vide

letter dated 21st July, 2005 and yet another letter dated 4th January, 2006

requiring the Kerala Police to examine and investigate whether the scheme run

by LIS (Regd) is in violation of the provisions of the Act of 1978. The crime was

registered against Kuriachan Chacko, Achamma Chacko, Linu Joy, P.V.Chacko

and M.V.Paylee. Vide order dated 10.5.2006 of the Commissioner of Police,

Kochi City the case diary was handed over to the Assistant Commissioner of

Police, Crime Detachment, Kochi City for further investigation. On 10.5.2006 a

search was conducted in the office of LIS (Regd) at Ernakulam. Six computer

hard discs, 16 CDs and 9 DVDs were taken into possession vide mahazar and

the same were sent to the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam with

a proper request to send the materials seized to C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram for

processing and analysis. They questioned all witnesses mentioned in the

counter affidavit. It is further the case of the respondent that the investigation

disclosed that LIS Deepasthambam project started in 2002 following a

partnership deed executed on 12th November, 2002. The first three accused are

partners of the deed. The deed is not seen registered. The first meeting of the

members of the partnership deed was held on 16.11.2002. Mr.Kuriachan

Chacko introduced the new scheme Deepasthambam project proposing to run

the project by collecting an advance amount of Rs.625/- per unit and provide the

units to the clients as mentioned above. In the beginning of the project a single W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 12 unit was worth Rs.625/- and double the amount was paid after 35 weeks of

enrollment. From the money entrusted for one unit, i.e. Rs.625/-, Rs.350/- is

said to be utilised for purchase of lottery for the depositor, i.e. Rs.10/- per lottery

per week and Rs.275/- for purchase of the collash magazine called 'Trikalam'

worth Rs.10/-. The amount

collected from the unit member is thus spent. The LIS (Regd) states that if the

lottery purchased in the name of each particular individual wins a prize the

amount will be paid to the individual. After the completion of 35 weeks no lottery

is purchased for the individual, nor any magazine is issued. The unit member is

said to be matured and he is repaid with an amount double the amount he had

spent with LIS (Regd), but no specific period is mentioned for maturity. From the

investigation it further transpired that the accused would pay the double amount

from the commission obtained from purchase of lottery tickets, i.e. out of 28%

commission obtained from lottery purchase from State Government and 30%

commission obtained from weekly. 25% each is taken from the lottery

commission and magazine commission and the double amount is paid to the

customer and thereafter he is said to be paid. The remaining 8% of the

commission is said to be utilised for office expenses and other miscellaneous

matters. The commission matter is stated to be arisen only after joining of fresh

14 members subsequent to the joining of the first member. The firm itself

canvasses for the members using its wide range publicity through different types W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 13 of medias including newspapers, T.V.channels, cinema houses, etc. When the

accused in the brochure mentioned that the scheme was under instructions of

the Reserve Bank of India, the said Bank advertised in Malayala Manorama

dated 12.5.2006 and Hindu of even date calling for the attention of the general

public that it has not issued any instructions for conducting such scheme nor has

it approved the scheme. A copy of the Reserve Bank of India advertisement

has been placed on record as Ext.R3(h). The respondent, then by referring to

various offending Sections mentioned in the FIR states that the accused arrayed

in the FiR have indeed committed said offences. In so far as the two judicial

precedents of this Court are concerned, the case of the respondent is that in the

said judgments there is no reference to Section 2(e) and further that the

judgments were rendered in a different context. It is also the case of the

respondent that State was a formal party in those cases and the judgment

Ext.P2 was rendered in a case alleging violation of Lotteries Regulation Act .

Having regard to Section 2(c) the submission of the learned counsel for the

petitioner was heard without there being any pleadings and only during the

arguments. The writ petition was dismissed in limine without notice to

respondents 6 and 7. In the light of the facts that have emerged during

investigation which were not considered by both the earlier Benches of this

Court, the case of the respondent is that the scheme of the petitioners would fall

under Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978. It is a scheme for quick or easy money W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 14 (doubling within 35 weeks) as well as a scheme for receipt of money as a

consideration to promise to pay double the money on less commission on a

future date, which according to the advertisement release by the firm will depend

on 14 new members in the scheme. The investigation further revealed that the

accused have enrolled the members to be subscribers of weekly magazine

'Trikalam' which is said to be an informative magazine. The revealing point is

that one member usually purchases more than one unit with the intention of

doubling his money spent with the firm loosing nothing, but leaving behind the

question of who is the looser, i.e. if a person acquires two units or more he is

eligible for more than one weekly per week and none will want to take more than

one. In the case of many number of members a huge amount is pocketed by the

accused with the knowledge and connivance of the different staff of LIS, thus

cheating the members who are only concentrated on doubling the amount of

their deposits in view of remittance for purchase of lottery. The advertisement

itself states that the first member will be paid out on joining of 14 new members

supported by their pamphlet LIS - Deepasthambam Project in Ext.R3(j). Later

the unit amount was enhanced to Rs.1250/- with a term for 70 weeks, due

to non-availability of funds to give double the amount to those who exceeded 35

weeks as per Rs.625/- unit scheme. It is revealed that so far only 51643

persons of Rs.625/- units have been paid off. The investigation further revealed

that from the materials collected so far the act of accepting crores and crores of W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 15 rupees from the general public with false promise and without any sanction from

any competent authority would constitute the offences under which the crime as

has been registered. The firm is operating 121 banks. It is essential to

ascertain the money misappropriated by way of 'Trikalam' weekly printing and

publishing, advertising, fixed deposits, security deposits of franchise, etc. The

accused as per the case set up by the third respondent are conducting the

business of 'Money Chain' under the cover of dealing with Government lottery

tickets with clandestine intention to commit a huge financial scam involving

hundreds or thousands of crores of rupees in future. The design to commit the

crime is well planned with all paraphernalia of bogus documents, aggressive

advertisements and fake schemes without any licence from any competent

statutory authority, like Reserve Bank of India. It is then averred in the counter

affidavit that the claim of the petitioners that they are achieving the

unimaginable growth from dealing with lotteries, necessarily each one rupee

invested by the petitioners in lottery must earn Rs.3/- within the stipulated time of

35 weeks constantly and continuously so long as the business exists, is

indigestible and never possible by whatever statistics applicable to the returns

from lotteries are concerned as can be seen from the mere fact that only a

meagre portion of the income from a particular draw of any lottery is being given

as total prize money to individuals who participated in the draw. 10. The petitioners have filed a reply affidavit controverting all the W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 16 contents in the counter affidavit filed by the third respondent, wherein it has been

mentioned that collection of Rs.625/- is not as deposit, but as an advance

towards the purchase of lottery and magazines. The money received as

commission in every week in respect of bulk purchase of lottery tickets and

magazines will be distributed among the senior most unit holders at Rs.1250/-. 11. The 4th respondent in opposition to the reply affidavit filed by the

petitioners has filed a counter affidavit wherein it has inter alia been mentioned

that the tactics adopted by the accused would prove that the claim made by

them is false and that it is nothing but a mathematical improbability. The gist of

the statement of account given in para 5 is that when the petitioners invest Rs.2

lakhs towards purchase of lottery and yet another Rs.2 lakhs towards purchase

of magazine for the investors, from lottery purchase they are getting 28% by way

of commission, i.e. Rs.56,000/- and from the purchase of magazine they get a

commission of Rs.60,000/-. Accordingly when Rs.4 lakhs are invested, even

according to the petitioners, the return is only Rs.1,16,000/- as against a loss of

Rs.2,84,000/-. There is no averment anywhere in the reply affidavit to show how

the petitioners are patching up the loss of Rs.2.84 lakhs as stated by them on

investment of each Rs.4 lakhs. The claim of the petitioners that they are getting

28% commission from the purchase of lottery tickets itself is not correct since

they are purchasing lottery tickets from other lottery agents also wherein the

claim of 28% is false. Similarly the 30% commission of 'Trikalam' weekly is W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 17 nothing but a myth and scandal. Even according to to them the 'Trikalam' weekly

is their own product and on investigation it came to light that the maximum cost

of the magazine is only Rs.3/- per copy. It is nothing but a self-serving

publication, with the sole intention to create a mist of doubt with regard to their

claim. From the investigation it was also found that the magazine is printed only

in lesser numbers than what is claimed by the petitioners. The claim that 30%

commission out of the total purchase value is given back to the depositor is

another way of cheating and a means to create cloud as to how they are paying

back the money. It was further found that 70% of the money collected from the

individuals are being misappropriated by the petitioners in the name of the said

magazine which in fact is worthless so far as the general public is concerned

and the publication, circulation and purchase, etc. of the said magazine is

nothing but a way to cover up the clear case of money chain activities being

done by the petitioners. It was also found that the petitioners had printed only

about 2 lakhs copies of 'Trikalam' magazine so far and that itself shows the

clandestine nature of the claim made by the petitioners. From the materials

collected it is revealed that the petitioners have collected an amount of

Rs.2230071875/- from Rs.625/- category and Rs.2266986250/- from Rs.1250/-

category. Thus a total amount of Rs.449,70,58,125/- has been collected from

the general public so far, out of which only Rs.117,26,17,500/- has been paid

back, which belongs to Rs.625/- category and not even a single pie has been W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 18 given back so far to the Rs.1250/- category. Thus it can be seen that an

amount of Rs.332,44,40,625/- is still with the petitioners and not even a single

pie has been paid back to anybody after 20.4.2005. If the claim of the

petitioners may be correct they could have made payments regularly and without

any break to the other waiting personals who have been waiting for the last

several months even after the elapse of the promised period. It is further

mentioned that the above statistics is only on the basis of the materials actually

collected so far and the real affairs may be far more than that and it can be

finalized only on collecting all the remaining records which are exclusively in the

hide outs of the petitioners. Another fact on which however there is serious

objection by the petitioners and which we may not take into consideration at this

stage however is that on another search it was found that one investor alone has

invested Rs.193,10,00,000/- with the petitioners on various dates in a short span

of time in 2005 in their project, but the documents collected on raid from the

petitioners' office do not bear any such investment by that person. 12. An additional affidavit of the third respondent has been filed wherein it

is mentioned that during the course of hearing the Court required respondents 3

and 4 to explain whether any enquiries had been made by them regarding the

viability or otherwise of LIS (Regd) scheme to satisfy themselves that the

scheme was not workable and would result in major loss to the public before

issuing Exts.P4, P5 and P6 notices to LIS (Regd) to stop the business pending W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 19 investigation of the case. It is averred in the affidavit aforesaid that for the last

several months the media including leading newspapers and electronic media

were advertising very heavily for the LIS (Regd) to the effect that if an investment

is made it will be doubled within a short span of time. The same type of

advertisements used to appear during the period 1992-1995 in the name of

investments in growth schemes like Teak plantations, Manjiyam plantations,

Goat farms, etc, which were later found to be a scam. The same method of

aggressive advertisements as that of LIS (Regd) was used by those firms as

well. At that time the said schemes were verified and subsequently several

fraudulent companies were detected. Due to timely intervention from the side of

the State police several hundred crores of rupees which could have otherwise

been siphoned off from the public could have been saved. The aggressive

advertisements by LIS (Regd) prompted the police to keep an eye personally on

their activities and verify the bona fides behind the advertisements. In the

meantime the D.G.P. of Kerala and I.G.P., Crime, CB CID, Thiruvananthapuram

in the month of July, 2005 and January 2006 received two intimations dated

21.7.2005 and 4.1.2006 from the Reserve Bank of India asking the State Police

to have an investigation in respect of the activities of LIS (Regd) .

Similarly, in April, 2006 a copy of the letter received from the office of the Deputy

Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Ernakulam addressed to the Commissioner,

Commercial Taxes, Thiruvananthapuram casts suspicion of the activities of LIS W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 20 (Regd). Some of the CB CID officers of the State police who were conducting

enquiry about the activities of LIS (Regd) on the basis of the direction issued to

them by the I.G. of Police, CB CID, Thiruvananthapuram gave information that

the enquiry revealed that the activities of LIS (Regd) would come under various

offences. During the investigation it was found that in an earlier matter

registered against the petitioners further actions were dropped. Case study of

the CD file revealed that the investigation was done by officers of the lower

grade who could not understand anything about the technical, suppressive and

clandestine nature of the crime and accordingly it happened to be referred under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was further found that the lack

of understanding of the said officers and the confusion created by the

management of LIS (Regd) resulted in the reporting of 'further action dropped'.

In the meanwhile a write up on LIS (Regd) and its latest deepasthambam project

was received from the Chairman of LIS (Regd) furnishing the details of their

business which was produced along with the counter affidavit. Finding it

unsatisfactory and improbable the version made by him, an intensive personal

study of the matter through various sources was conducted including expert

opinion derived from Chartered Accountants. The pamphlet published by LIS

(Regd) made it very clear that the promise of doubling the deposits by the

investors is a mathematical impossibility and as scheme progresses it will leave

at least 11 times of the paid up investors losing their money. The activities W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 21 mentioned in the scheme of LIS (Regd) were given to some Chartered

Accountants for their opinion. After analysing the project conducted by LIS

(Regd) they have submitted a report which clearly shows that it is nothing but a

money chain activity which will have its natural collapse at any time due to

stagnation in the required number of new enrollments to continue the chain and

due to the siphoning out of the corpus in large scale for repayment, with the

unavoidable result of loss of lakhs and lakhs to the investors. A copy of the

report submitted by M/s.JVR & Associates, Chartered Accountants of

Thiruvananthapuram dated 8.5.2006 has been placed on record as Ext.R3(V). 13. Some applications for and against for impleadment have been filed

which were allowed, but there will be no need to give details thereof as, by and

large, those supporting have averred in tune with the pleadings made by the

petitioners and those opposing have made averments in tune with the counter

affidavits filed by the respondents. 14. In so far as W.P.(C) No.13152 of 2006 filed by Linu Joy, wife of Joy

John is concerned, the relief sought therein would depend upon the decision of

the Criminal Miscellaneous Case filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure referred to above. The facts stated in this writ petition however, we

may mention are akin to which have been mentioned in the other two matters. 15. The fate of the writ petition would depend upon the decision of the

Criminal Miscellaneous Case filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 22 Procedure for quashing the FIR. Surely, the investigating agency will be

justified in launching prosecution against the petitioners if the contents in the FIR

and other supporting materials may disclose commission of some crime. The

police officers would have every right to prevent such crime. This power vests

with every police officer under the provisions contained in Section 149 of the

Code of criminal Procedure which reads as follows: If the scheme evolved by the petitioners which of course is their business may

result into commission of any cognizable offence, the police investigating the

crime can very well prevent it and that can be done only by slapping an order of

closure of such business as has been done vide order Ext.P4. 16. From the narration of facts as have been fully detailed above, what

straightaway transpires is that the petitioners are connected with the lottery

business in the brand name LIS. This business is carried on in the name

'M/s.LIS, Ernakulam'. The main business of the firm is arranging lottery tickets to

the public. In connection with the business of lottery the partnership firm is

advertising in all leading dailies and through visual medias offering fabulous

returns for deposits from the public. The nature of business is that an individual

has to deposit Rs.625/- per unit or multiplies thereof. For each unit a member is W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 23 given lottery ticket worth Rs.350/- purchased over 35 weeks at Rs.10/- per week.

He also subscribes Rs.275/- to a magazine called 'Trikalam' published by LIS

Printers and Publishers. The lottery tickets worth Rs.350/- are purchased,

preserved and the concerned member is informed the particular ticket number

and results thereof. If the lottery ticket purchased in the name of a unit holder

wins a prize, it is given to the said member. The firm thus makes arrangement

for disbursement of prize amount and irrespective of as to whether any member

enrolled by the firm gets a prize on the ticket purchased on his name or not, he is

assured of an amount of Rs.1250/- in the manner as mentioned in the earlier

part of the judgment. These minimum facts are not in dispute. The discordant

view in the matter is that whereas as per the prosecution version the scheme

evolved by the petitioners is a mathematical impossibility and sooner or later it is

bound to fail, as it would be impossible for the petitioners to carry on joining 11

members for payment to a single unit, the case of the petitioners is that they are

indeed making payment from the money collected by them as commission on

sale of lottery tickets and also commission earned by them on sale of magazine

called 'Trikalam' and the said commission would take care of payment to the

subscribers. During the course of arguments we asked the counsel for the

petitioners to explain as to how it will be possible to pay double the amount to

each unit holder from the money earned by the petitioners from commission only,

the reply forthcoming from the counsel was that so far no subscriber to the W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 24 scheme has made any complaint and the records of the petitioners' concern

would show that every subscriber has been paid. Learned Senior Government

Pleader on the adjourned date chose to file an additional affidavit of

T.P.Senkumar, Inspector General of Police, South

Zone, Thiruvananthapuram, wherein the details of the scheme, the money

collected and paid and the balance which is still to be paid have been detailed. It

may be recalled at this stage that the investigation has revealed that so far only

51643 persons of Rs.625/- units have been paid off. The gist of the statement of

accounts is that when the petitioners invest Rs.2 lakhs towards purchase of

lottery tickets and yet another Rs.2 lakhs towards purchase of magazine for the

investors, they will get a commission of Rs.56,000/- from the purchase of lottery

tickets and Rs.60,000/- from the magazine. When Rs.4 lakhs are invested, even

according to the petitioners, the return is only Rs.1,16,000/-, as against a loss of

Rs.2,84,000/-. It is the case of the respondents and surely during the course of

arguments it has not been shown by petitioners as to how they are patching up

the loss of Rs.2.84 lakhs on investment of each Rs.4 lakhs. The investigation

has further revealed that the petitioners have collected an amount of

Rs.223,00,71,875/- from Rs.625/- category and Rs.226,69,86,250/- from

Rs.1250/- category. A total amount of Rs.449,70,58,125/- has been collected

from the general public so far, out of which only Rs.117,26,17,500/- has been

paid back which belongs to Rs.625/- category and not even a single pie has W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 25 been given back so far to the Rs.1250/- category. An amount of

Rs.332,44,40,625/- is still with the petitioners and not even a single pie has been

paid back to anybody after 20.4.2005. When confronted with this overwhelming

evidence showing that the subscribers have not been paid anything after

20.4.2005 and that no details have been furnished from where it could be

reasonably gathered that the petitioners would be able to pay back as claimed

by them in the scheme and in the advertisements made by them, all that the

learned counsel representing the petitioners would say is that the petitioners are

facing prosecution under various Sections as mentioned above and once they

are able to show that whatever be the scheme of the petitioners there was no

applicability of the said Sections, or in other words, a reading of the FIR would

not disclose applicability of either of the Sections, be it of Act of 1978, the Reserve Bank of India Act or the Indian Penal Code , the FIR should be quashed

and as and when the petitioners may be faced with the charge based upon non-

workability of the scheme they will answer the same. 17. On the aforesaid rival contention of the learned counsel representing

the parties, a question of some significance that arises is as to whether the FIR

needs to be quashed and that too at the initial stage when it may appear that

only some of the offences that are mentioned in the FIR may prima facie appear

to have been committed and the rest of the offences may be wholly unrelatable

to the facts given in the FIR and the supporting documents and still further as to W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 26 whether the FIR can be quashed even though none of the offences mentioned

in the FIR may be relatable to the facts given therein and the supporting

documents, but the same may nonetheless constitute some offence. 18. Before, however, we may comment and adjudicate on this issue it

would be appropriate to first deal with the contention of the learned counsel for

the petitioners that the matter herein is covered by two judgments of this Court

in W.P.(C) No.33743 of 2005 and Crl.M.C.No.2912 of 2005. In so far as W.P.(C)

No. 33743 of 2005 is concerned, the same was filed by way of public interest

litigation by All Kerala Lottery Subscribers Association. It was dismissed without

issuing notice to respondents 6 and 7. The respondents arrayed in the petition

aforesaid were (1) State of Kerala, (2) Director of State Lotteries, Kerala, (3)

Director of State Lotteries, Karnataka, (4) Director General of Police, Kerala, (5)

The Registrar, Sub Registrar's office, Ernakulam, (6) The President, LIS

Educational and Charitable Trust, Bangalore and (7) LIS Regd., Ernakulam.

Learned Government Pleader appeared for respondents 1 and 2 and filed a

written statement. When the matter came up for hearing on 24.1.2006,

arguments were heard and judgment was delivered on 30th January, 2006. It is

no doubt true, that presence of Sri.Abdul Rahim, Government Pleader, has been

mentioned in the order, but it is only the counsel for the petitioners who had

argued the case. One of the prayers which is relevant was to issue a direction

to the first and fifth respondents to take necessary steps to shut down all further W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 27 operations in the illegal business of 6th and 7th respondents. The averments

made in the petition were that 6th and 7th respondents were enrolling subscribers

in a scheme called "Lis Deepasthambham Project" as per which an amount of

Rs.1250/- is collected from a unit holder, which amount would be invested by

respondents 6 and 7 for the purpose of purchasing lottery tickets in bulk and they

were also getting commission for the same. This commission and the prize, if

any, obtained from any ticket so purchased would be deposited against the unit

holders. It is this activity which according to the petitioner in the said case was

one intended to cheat the public and was in violation of the Lotteries (Regulation)

Act, 1998 and would amount to depriving the genuine lottery subscribers of

their opportunity to try their luck. On these facts alone, as has been clearly

mentioned in the judgment Ext.P2, we had observed that the Court was not

satisfied that the petitioner had brought out a case for interference on the ground

that there is violation of Lotteries (Regulation) Act . The scheme, this Court

observed, was one by which respondents 6 and 7 would purchase lottery tickets

on behalf of many subscribers and distribute the commission and the prizes

among such subscribers, which this Court thought would not amount to any

illegal activity prohibited by Lotteries (Regulation) Act . The other contention

raised was that the activities of 6th and 7th respondents constitute a monopoly in

the matter of purchasing lottery tickets. While repelling the contention aforesaid

reliance was placed upon the averments made in the written statement filed on W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 28 behalf of the second respondent. In so far as the aspect with regard to cheating

is concerned, the court had observed that the petitioner had not pointed out any

instance wherein there was any complaint against respondents 6 and 7 of

cheating by virtue of the scheme propagated by them. It was also observed that

if there is in fact any cheating by respondents 6 and 7, the proper course of

action for any person aggrieved would be to file appropriate complaints either

before the police or before the competent criminal court. In so far as the

applicability of Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 is concerned, a contention was

raised during the course of arguments without there being any pleadings on that

count. Once again, while considering the activities of respondents 6 and 7 as

mentioned in that petition only, the Bench had observed that the scheme evolved

by respondents 6 and 7 would not come within the purview of Section 2(c) of the

Act of 1978. It is significant to mention that the activities of respondents 6 and 7

as made out by the petitioner were only which have been mentioned above.

There were no pleadings with regard to the petitioners enrolling more members

so as to make payment to members already enrolled. There was no averment to

the effect that petitioners in due course would not be able to make payment to

the members who had purchased units and one day or other the scheme is

bound to fail. The essence of offence, if at all is in enrolment of more members

and payment to members who have already enrolled from out of the receipts of

money from new members. On the basis of such activities as mentioned in the W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 29 writ petition aforesaid our view still would be that no offence is disclosed. But

that is not the position in so far as the FIR, the subject matter of challenge in the

present cases, is concerned. That being so, it cannot be said by any stretch of

imagination that the matter would be covered in favour of the petitioners by the

Division Bench judgment of this Court in W.P.(C) No.33743 of 2005, in which

one of us (V.K.Bali, C.J.) was a member. Still further, it appears that the Lottery

Agents' Association was more aggrieved of the business competition faced from

6th and 7th respondents arrayed in the writ petition. It is against that competition

in which they lagged far behind as compared to respondents 6 and 7, that the

petition was filed. While thus deciding the matter the main consideration was

upon the plea raised in the petition pertaining to 6th and 7th respondents having a

monopoly in the entire lottery business. 19. The facts given in the order dated 27th October, 2005 passed in

Crl.M.C.No. 2912 of 2005 would reveal that Kuriachan Chacko was the accused

in C.C.No.236 of 2005 on the file of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam.

Kamalakshan, the first respondent, had filed a complaint on the allegation that

Kuriachan Chacko had committed offences punishable under Section 420 of the

Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 , 4 and 5(c)(i) of the Act of 1978. The

complaint subject matter of quashing under Section 482 of the Code of criminal

Procedure was filed by Kamalakshan on the allegation that he was a salesman

in a private business establishment and he subscribed a unit of 'LIS- W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 30 Deepasthambham Project' believing the advertisement and assurances given by

the accused that money deposited would be doubled within a short span of time.

The said unit gave him a profit of Rs.625/-. So he purchased three more units

and was awaiting its return. Then he understood that the accused was

conducting the project without proper licence and permission required by law

from the Reserve Bank of India and other authorities. The accused was

conducting money chain and money circulation scheme and that the acceptance

of deposits by the accused was illegal. He had come across several news items

in various dailies that the project of the accused was sinking. It was then

mentioned in the complaint that the accused had cheated the complainant and

the general public and that they started the business with the intention to cheat

the complainant and other depositors. On these facts alone it was urged by the

complainant that offences under Sections 420 IPC and Sections 3 , 4 and 5(c)(i) of the Act of 1978 would be made out. The learned Single Judge while

exclusively relying upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in State of West

Bengal and others v. Swapan Kumar Guha and others , (1982) 1 SCC 561

held thus: 20. The FIR has been registered against the petitioners under Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Act of 1978, Sections 45-I(bb) , 45-S and 58-B of the Reserve

Bank of India Act, 1934 and also Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. Section

3 of the Act of 1978 pertains to banning of prize chits and money circulation

schemes or enrollment as members or participation therein. Section 4 provides

for penalty for contravening the provisions of Section 3 . Section 5 provides

penalty for other offences in connection with prize chits or money circulation

schemes. The case of the respondents is that Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of Act 1978

would be applicable as money circulation schemes are banned under Section 3 and the activity indulged in by the petitioners would be of money circulation

scheme as defined under Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978. It is further the case W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 33 of respondents that prize chits conducted by any member is also banned under Section 3 for which penalties are provided under Sections 4 and 5 and the

scheme evolved by the petitioners would also amount to prize chits as defined

under Section 2(e) of the Act aforesaid. The petitioners on the other hand would

endeavour us to believe that the business activities carried on by them would

neither be money circulation scheme, nor prize chits, nor the said activity would

be covered under any of the provisions mentioned in the FIR. They would also

endeavour us to show that the offence under the Act of 1978 which pertains to

money circulation scheme or prize chits cannot co-exist with the provisions of Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code. 21. The view that we are inclined to take in this case at this stage guides

us not to give any definite finding on the rival contentions of the learned counsel

as noted above, even though we may hasten to add that prima facie it appears

that the activities indulged in by the petitioners may not be covered with the

ingredients of prize chits as defined under Section 2(e) of the Act of 1978 nor it

may be covered under any of the Sections of the Reserve Bank of India Act. We

however, refrain from giving any definite opinion on this issue. Surely, we would

have gone into all minute details of the facts relatable or otherwise to the

provisions of the Act of 1978 or the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act mentioned in the FIR or the ingredients of Section 420 IPC and given a definite

view , if perhaps, we would have been inclined to quash the FIR at this stage. W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 34 In as much as, we are of the considered view that ingredients of money

circulation scheme as defined under Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 in the

context of the activities indulged in by the petitioners are a highly debatable

issue, no conclusions should be drawn at this initial stage where investigation is

in its infancy. Further, it appears, at least prima facie, that ingredients of Section 420 IPC are made out. That apart, it is not a case where the petitioners

may be able to state that taking contents of the FIR and the supporting materials

as true no offence whatsoever would be disclosed. 22. Having observed that, prima facie, there does not appear to be

applicability of Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 and the provisions of the Reserve

Bank of India Act mentioned in the FIR there will be no need to make any further

comments with regard to that aspect of the case. However, with a view to

demonstrate that applicability of Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 is a highly

debatable issue we would like to mention that it has been urged by the learned

counsel appearing for the petitioners that money circulation scheme is a scheme

for making of quick or easy money, or for the receipt of any money or valuable

thing as the consideration for a promise to pay money, on any event or

contingency relative or applicable to the enrolment of members into the scheme.

Unless, the petitioners had promised the unit holders that they would be paid

double their money dependent upon enrolment of other members, the case

would not be covered under money circulation scheme as defined under Section W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 35 2(c) of the Act of 1978. Petitioners had made no promise to the unit holders that

double the money would be paid to them for which enrolment of other members

would be essential. There was no mutuality between the petitioners and the unit

holders with regard to enrolment of more members into the scheme and thus the

activity carried out by the petitioners would not be of money circulation scheme,

contends the learned counsel. With a view to appreciate this contention it will be

useful to reproduce the definition of 'money circulation scheme' as given in Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 and the same reads as follows: From the bare language employed in the definition of 'money circulation scheme'

the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners does not appear to be

correct. In the endeavour to make quick or easy money or for the receipt of any

money or valuable thing the consideration of course has to be a promise to pay

money. After the words 'the consideration for a promise to pay money' the

mention of the words 'on any event or contingency relative or applicable to the

enrolment of members into the scheme' , would not show that there has to be W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 36 mutuality between the one who floats a scheme and the person to whom

promise to pay money is made with regard to enrolment of more members. The

mutuality appears only to be in paying the money. Learned counsel appearing

for the petitioners, however, supports the aforesaid contention placing reliance

upon the decision of the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal and others v.

Swapan Kumar Guha and others (supra). The main judgment in the case

aforesaid has been prepared by the Hon'ble Justice A.N.Sen, as he then was.

Justice Y.V.Chandrachud, the Hon'ble Chief Justice, as he then was, even

though agreed with the view expressed by Justice A.N.Sen, prepared a

separate judgment. The Hon'ble Justice A.Varadarajan, as he then was, agreed

with the view expressed by Chief Justice Y.V.Chandrachud. Reliance placed

by the learned counsel as noted above is on the judgment prepared by Chief

Justice Y.V.Chandrachud. The FIR subject matter of quashing in the said case

was that Sanchaita Investments was carrying on business of promoting and/or

conducting prize chit and/or money circulation scheme and enrolling members of

such chit and/or scheme, participating in those, and/or receiving and remitting

monies in pursuance of such chits and/or scheme in violation of the provisions

of the Act of 1978. From the enquiry made, it revealed that the said Sanchaita

Investments is a partnership firm, partners being Shri Bihari Lal Murarka,

Shri.Shambhu Prasad Mukherjee and Shri.Swapan Kumar Guha and that it was W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 37 floated in or around 1975. The said firm had been offering fabulous interest at

the rate of 48 per cent per annum to its members until very recently. The rate of

interest had of late been reduced to 36 per cent per annum. Such high rates of

interest were being paid even though the loan certificate receipts show the rate

of interest to be 12 per cent only. Thus, the amount in excess of 12 per cent so

paid clearly shows that the money circulation scheme is being promoted and

conducted for the making of quick and/or easy money, prizes and/or gifts in cash

were and are also awarded to agents, promoters and members too. The

gravamen of accusation against the accused was that they were conducting a

'money circulation scheme'. Reference in the FIR was to prize chits. The short

question for consideration arising out of the FIR was as to whether the accused

were conducting money circulation scheme. In the context of the language

employed in Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 it was observed that it was

impossible to take clause (c) to mean that any and every activity for the making

of quick or easy money would be comprehended within its scope. A person

who makes quick money may do so legitimately by the use of his wits and

wisdom and no moral turpitude may attach to it, observed the Honourable

Supreme Court. It was then observed that firstly it must be proved that he is

promoting or conducting a scheme for the making of quick or easy money and

secondly, the chance or opportunity of making quick or easy money must be

shown to depend upon an event or contingency relative or applicable to the W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 38 enrolment of members into that scheme. In so far as the observations as

mentioned above are concerned, the same would pose no difficulty in returning a

finding with regard to the applicability of the 'money circulation scheme' to the

scheme adopted by the petitioners. The Honourable Supreme Court, however,

focussed its attention to the aim of the Act which was for banning a money

circulation scheme. The activity charged as falling within the mischief of the Act

must be shown to be a part of a scheme for making quick or easy money,

dependent upon the happening or non-happening of any event or contingency

relative or applicable to the enrolment of members into that scheme. A scheme

is a systematic programme for attaining some object and the said systematic

programme has to be a consensual arrangement between two or more persons

under which the subscriber agrees to advance or lend money on promise of

being paid more money on the happening of any event or contingency relative

or applicable to the enrolment of members into the programme. Reciprocally,

the person promoting or conducting the programme promises, on receipt of an

advance or loan, to pay more money on the happening of such event or

contingency. 23. It was further observed that there was no allegation even in any of the

affidavits filed on behalf of the State of West Bengal and its concerned officers

that the depositors and the promoters are animated by a community of interest in

the matter of the scheme being dependent upon any event or contingency W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 39 relative or applicable to the enrolment of members into it. These are the

observations which have been relied upon by the learned counsel for the

petitioners to assert that the promise to pay money is in an event or contingency

relative or applicable to the enrolment of its members and to this agreement the

subscriber has to be a party. 24. Mr.M.Ajay, learned Senior Government Pleader, on the other hand

contends that the language employed in the statute or for that matter even the

observations made by the Honourable Supreme Court relied upon by the

learned counsel for the petitioners cannot be interpreted to mean that there has

to be a promise or agreement between the promoter and the subscriber that the

money promised to be paid to the subscriber will depend upon enrolment of new

members and that in any case, mutuality would not go beyond the understanding

on the part of the subscriber that he would get the promised money on enrolment

of new members without there being any promise extended and agreed to.

Learned Government Pleader further contends that even if the contention of the

learned counsel for the petitioners may be accepted, the various documents

collected during the investigation and in particular the advertisement made by

the petitioners would clearly suggest that they had promised the subscribers to

pay double the money on enrolment of new members, and once, the subscribers

had acted upon the advertisement in writing, there was indeed a mutuality with

regard to payment on enrolment of new members as made out and therefore, W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 40 even if the contention of the learned counsel, as mentioned above, is accepted,

the ingredients of the offence are complete. 25. In his endeavour to show mutuality of enrolment of fresh members to

be made out from the advertisement, reference has been made to Ext.R4(b) an

advertisement issued by the concern of the petitioners. Under the caption 'What

you have to do!' it has been mentioned as follows: "Love your neighbors as you

love yourself, and wish them for their prosperity!". Underneath is writing 'And to

show that you are sincere in it, after joining yourself in Deepasthambham

Project - AM or Deepasthambham Project - PM., You enroll two of them, to

follow suit at the earliest'. Learned Government Pleader also refers to a write

up issued by the concern of the petitioners Ext.R3(s). In the column 'Now the

detailed working of LIS - DSP - which gives more than 100% gain', it inter alia

has been mentioned as follows: "At present it happens within 8 months. In

future normally the period will be getting longer and longer. But with 10% growth

in the number of new members, within 2 years one will get back his amount and

equal amount as commission." Even though the counsel for the petitioners also

relied on the same document under the column 'Is not money chain activity' and

to its answer No' given under the said column states that it is not a scheme for

"easy making of money" for entrepreneurs; and there is no contract between the

entrepreneurs and a member for enrolling more members. 26. In so far as the rival contentions of the learned counsel based upon W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 41 the judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court in State of West Bengal and

others v. Swapan Kumar Guha and others (supra) are concerned, we may

mention that the observations made therein that the depositors and the

promoters are animated by a community of interest in the matter of the scheme

being dependent upon any event or contingency relatable or applicable to the

enrolment of members into it does not mean that such mutuality may be in

writing or by a definite promise. Such mutuality even if required may be spelt

out from the conduct of the parties discernible on number of factors such as

advertisements made by the petitioners in writing or through medias like

newspapers, television, etc. As to whether this mtuality is spelt out from the

various documents relied upon by the investigating agency, or the members

were told at the time of buying units that double the amount shall be paid to them

on enrolment of new members, is in the realm of evidence and no finding has to

be given on this issue at this initial stage when so far statements of relevant

witnesses which may throw light on this aspect of the matter are yet to be

recorded. The conclusion that may be drawn at this stage, at the most can be

relating to prima facie applicability or non-applicability of the ingredients of

various offences listed against the petitioners under various statutes as

mentioned above. Prima facie, it appears to us that whereas there may be no

applicability of the offence described/defined in section 2(e) of the Act of 1978

and therefore there may not be any applicability of Sections 3 , 4 and 5(c)(i) of W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 42 the said Act, the applicability of Section 2(c) is debatable and in so far as the

second limb of applicability of the above mentioned Act is concerned, the same

would depend upon interpretation of documents and the statements of the

persons which may be recorded by the investigating officer. As mentioned

above, in so far as the various sections mentioned in the FIR with regard to the Reserve Bank of India Act are concerned, the same would not be prima facie

applicable even though, ingredients of Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code

again appear to be prima facie applicable. It may be recalled that all that has

been urged with regard to non-applicability of Section 420 of the Indian Penal

Code is that offence of cheating cannot co-exist with the offence under Sections

3 , 4 and 5(c)(i) of the Act of 1978. Assuming it to be so, if Sections 3, 4 and 5(c) (i) of the Act of 1978 may not be applicable by virtue of the definition of 'money

circulation scheme' and 'prize chit' as given in Section 2(c) and 2(e) respectively, that would not mean that Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code

would not be applicable and to that extent there is not even a contention made

by the learned counsel for the petitioners. Cheating has been defined in Section

415 of the Indian Penal Code. The same reads as follows: It is significant to note that a damage that is likely to be caused is also covered

under the kind of act or omission as mentioned in Section 415 of the Indian

Penal Code. It is therefore not necessary that members who might have been

enrolled presently may suffer any damage, but if those members who are

enrolled later are likely to suffer damage the case would prima facie fall under Section 415 of the Indian Penal Code. The very fact that the scheme as

envisaged and floated by the petitioners is a mathematical impossibility, even

assuming that Section 2(c) of the Act of 1978 may not be applicable, the

ingredients of cheating as given in Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code at least

would be prima facie made out. It may not be appropriate for us to state what

other offences would be made out, but the fact that a number of persons who

may in ultimate analysis lose all their money would prima facie disclose

commission of some offence. It is relevant at this stage to mention that one of

the persons is said to have deposited Rs.193,10,00,000/- with the petitioners

which of course is a disputed fact. If the said person might have actually

invested with the petitioners all his money and may lose it in due course can it be

said that prima facie no offence has been committed by the petitioners? If such

persons who in any case have admittedly invested money by taking units in the W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 44 hope of doubling it are ultimately to lose their entire investment, can it be said

that those who have collected money from them by extending a definite promise

to give double the amount to them, have not committed any offence? It

appears to this Court that such activity carried on in a larger and massive scale

resulting into non-payment of the promised amount to the subscribers would

prima facie be an offence. 27. The investigation

is in its infancy. The police is in the process of collecting documents. It has still

to record statement of witnesses some of whom would be certainly persons who

have invested money. It is not essential for the prosecution to ultimately submit

a report under Section 173 only under the offences mentioned in the FIR. The

investigating officer, on completion of the investigation and while submitting a

report may in his wisdom seek prosecution of the petitioners for some of the

offences mentioned in the FIR and delete the others. He may also make some

additions to the offences that are already mentioned in the FIR. In the ultimate

analysis, the investigating officer may seek prosecution under such offences

which may indeed be disclosed from the FIR and other accompanying

documents and statements under Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code. In a

situation as mentioned above, it would not be appropriate to quash the FIR on

the only ground that some of the offences mentioned in the FIR ultimately may

not be proved against the petitioners. 28. Learned Senior Advocate Mr.U.U.Lalith appearing for the petitioners W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 45 seeking quashing of the FIR, however , placed reliance upon a judgment of the

Honourable Supreme Court in State of Haryana and others v. Ch.Bhajan Lal

and others (AIR 1992 SC 604). In the judicial precedent cited by the learned

counsel the Honourable Supreme Court culled out the following categories of

cases where the High Court may in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the

Constitution or under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure may

interfere in proceedings relating to cognizable offences to prevent abuse of the

process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice: It is urged that the case would fall under categories 1 and 3. However, we find

no merit in the contention of the learned counsel in view of our observation made

above that it is not a case where the petitioners may be able to urge that even if

the allegations made in the First Information Report are taken at their face value

and accepted in their entirety it would not constitute prima facie any offence. It

is not a case where it could be said that the allegations contained in the FIR and

other materials would not constitute any offence (emphasis supplied). We have

already held that even if some of the offences as mentioned in the FIR may not

be made out as per the allegations contained in the FIR and accompanying

materials, but when it may appear that the said allegations would constitute

some of the offences mentioned in the FIR or some other offences with which W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 47 the petitioners may be ultimately sent for trial by the investigating agency, it

would not be a case for quashing the FIR. We are of the view, that this Court at

this stage should not give a decision as to whether on the basis of the FIR and

the connected materials no offence is disclosed to have been committed by the

petitioners. The facts at this stage are incomplete and hazy. Entire evidence

has not been collected and produced before the Court and the issues involved,

whether factual or legal, are of magnitude and cannot be seen in their true

perspective without sufficient material. In Janata Dal v. H.S.Chowdhary and

others , AIR 1993 SC 892, the Supreme Court held that the inherent power

conferred by Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should not be

exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The High Court being the highest

Court of a State should normally refrain from giving a premature decision in a

case wherein the entire facts are extremely incomplete and hazy, more so when

the evidence has not been collected and produced before the Court and the

issues involved whether factual or legal are of great magnitude and cannot be

seen in their true perspective without sufficient material. This view has been

reiterated by the Supreme Court in State of Karnataka v. M.Devendrappa and

another , (2002) 3 SCC 89. In view of the discussions made above we do not find any merit in any of

the petitions subject matter of decision by this common order. The same are W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 48 thus dismissed. Even while dismissing the petitions we are of the view that in

totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and in particular if the version

of the petitioners may be correct and they may ultimately be able to demonstrate

that the scheme flouted by them is practicable, delay in this matter would

completely destroy the business of the petitioners, we order that the investigating

agency and officers conducting the investigation in this case would submit the

report after investigation if they find commission of cognizable offences by the

petitioners within a period of two months from today. We would like to mention

here that the order closing the business of the petitioners was issued on

10.5.2006 and the First Information Report came to be launched on the same

date. While issuing notice in these cases we have not stayed the investigation.

That being so, a period of two months more from today should be sufficient for

the investigating agency to complete the investigation and submit the report. We

further order that within a month from the date the report is put up in the Court,

the Magistrate or the Sessions Judge before whom the report may be put up,

would frame the charges and at that stage when the prosecution would have

collected the entire evidence the concerned Court would apply its mind to all the

contentions that have been raised before us or that may be further made by the

petitioners, and by a speaking order the Court will hold that the offences with

which the petitioners may be ultimately put to trial have been made out or not.

We further observe that none of the observations/findings given by us in this W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 49 order would be construed as expression of opinion on the merits of the

controversy and the concerned Court would frame charges against the

petitioners being

totally uninfluenced of such observations or findings. All the observations and

findings are made or given only for the purpose of W.P.(C) No.12775/2006, etc. 50 deciding the writ petitions or the criminal miscellaneous case. In the peculiar

facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs. Sd/- V.K. BALI,
 CHIEF JUSTICE. Sd/- P.R.RAMAN,
 JUDGE. vns

 / true copy /

 P.S. to Judge