This Appeal has been preferred against the judgment dated 22/12/2006

passed by the ld. single Judge in W. P. no. 18547 (W) of 2005. The fact leading to the filing of the writ petition is that the

appellant/petitioner was an employee of the Calcutta Tramways Company since

1978 and he was working in the post of khalashi. While the appellant/petitioner

was in service, he remained absent during the period from 16/5/1994 to

30/5/1994 due to his illness. He joined his duty on May 31, 1994 after he was

declared medically fit by the Medical Officer of the company. But all on a sudden

on June 1, 1994, he was informed by the authority that he was dismissed from

the service. Since then, the company did not permit him to join duty though he

submitted series of applications and appeals. The authority concerned informed

him that because of the order of the Chairman-cum-Managing Director dated

November 30, 1994, there was no scope to permit him to work in the company.

Ultimately, on February 15, 2005 the appellant/petitioner was informed by the

company that having regard to the past developments, there was no scope to re-

engage him in the company unless there was any specific direction or order from
 the court or tribunal or authority. After receiving the said letter, the

appellant/petitioner filed the writ petition challenging the action on the part of

the company and also prayed that direction should be passed on the company to

reinstate him along with all the back wages. The writ petition was contested by the Calcutta Tramways Company by

filing affidavit-in-opposition. The main contention of the company is that the

petitioner/appellant was a habitual absentee. Previously he was discharged

thrice due to his unauthorised absence. However, the authority reinstated him

on those occasions. According to the opposite party/respondent, due to the

petitioner's unauthorised absence from May 16, 1994 to May 30, 1994, by the

order dated June 1, 1994, the General Manager of the company discharged him

from service as per rules and regulations prevailing at the material time. As

against this, the appellant/petitioner preferred an appeal which was also

dismissed on 30/11/1994 by the disciplinary authority who was the Chairman-

cum-Managing Director of the company and the order, so passed by the

Chairman-cum-Managing Director was received by the writ petitioner on

5/12/1994. In spite of that the appellant/petitioner continued to submit

representations which were duly replied from time to time. It was mentioned in

those replies that after the appeal of the petitioner was rejected by the Chairman-

cum-Managing Director, there was no scope to engage him in the company. It is the case of the opposite party/respondent that the

appellant/petitioner, before filing the writ petition, approached the Conciliation

Officer as per provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in respect of his

dismissal order and that proceeding is still pending before the said officer. That apart, the opposite party/respondent has claimed that the

appellant/petitioner committed fraud on the court by filing a document dated

30/11/1994 claiming the same to be the order passed by the Chairman-cum-

Managing Director of the respondent/company. In fact no such document was

ever served upon the writ petitioner, as claimed by him. The order dated

30/11/1994, passed by the appellate authority being the Chairman-cum-

Managing Director, was completely different whereby the order of dismissal, as

passed by the General Manager was confirmed. The petitioner duly received the

said copy. In spite of that, by way of practising fraud, the petitioner produced

another document claiming the same to be the order of the Chairman-cum-

Managing Director in order to make out a case in support of his claim, as made

in the writ petition. The respondent/opposite party prayed for dismissal of the

writ petition. On the basis of such pleadings, both the sides made their respective

submissions before the learned trial Judge, who was pleased to dismiss the writ

petition by passing the impugned order. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with
 the order of dismissal, this appeal has been preferred by the appellant/writ

petitioner. It is the contention of the appellant that the dismissal order which was

passed against him by the authority was thoroughly illegal as no disciplinary

proceeding was started against the petitioner by the authority before passing the

dismissal order. It is further submitted that the dismissal order was never served upon the

appellant by the authority and as such, without such service, the authority

cannot prevent the writ petitioner to join his duty. In this respect learned

advocate for the appellant drew our attention to the letter dated 30/11/1994

which was allegedly written in the name of the appellant by the Chairman-cum-

Managing Director of the company. Said letter has been annexed as Annexure P-

7 with the writ application and it is at page 37 of the paper book. Learned

advocate for the appellant argued that from the said letter it does not reveal that

the authority actually dismissed the writ petitioner from service. Learned Advocate for the appellant further submitted that it is the case of

the appellant that his signature was obtained by the authority in a blank paper

which was filed in connection with the writ application. According to the learned

advocate for the appellant, learned trial Judge did not consider this aspect at its

proper perspective while dismissing the writ application. Further contention of the learned advocate for the appellant is that the

observation of the learned trial Judge that the appellant suppressed the fact of

pendency of the conciliation proceeding before the Conciliation Officer in respect

of the dispute amongst the parties, is not at all correct. According to him, in the

writ petition it was mentioned that there was a conciliation proceeding started in

respect of the dispute in question at the instance of the writ petitioner. As such,

there was no suppression of fact, as observed by the learned trial Judge. Learned advocate for the appellant argued that the learned trial Judge did

not consider all these aspects, as placed before him by the appellant/writ

petitioner and as such, learned Trial Judge was not at all justified in dismissing

the writ petition. Learned advocate for the appellant thus, has prayed for setting

aside the impugned judgment, as passed by the learned trial Judge. As against this, Mr. Milan Chandra Bhattacharjee, learned advocate for the

respondent/company submitted that the appellant/writ petitioner did not

approach the writ court with clean hands. According to him, the appellant/writ

petitioner based his claim on a forged document which was annexed as Annexure

P-7 which is at page 37 of the paper book in order to misguide the learned trial

Judge. As such, he argued that since the writ court is basically a court of equity,

the writ petitioner cannot be favoured with any equitable relief, solely on the

ground that he did not approach the writ court with clean hands. Mr. Bhattacharjee, learned advocate for the respondent/company further

argued by drawing our attention to the supplementary affidavit, as sworn by the

then Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Calcutta Tramways Company,

wherein said officer stated, on oath, that the letter dated 30/11/1994, as

produced by the writ petitioner and which is at page 37 of the Paper Book was

not at all written by him and it did not bear his signature also. Mr. Bhattacharjee

submits that this Mr. D. K. Chakrabarty is now posted as the Secretary to the

Government of West Bengal and as such, there cannot be any reason to

disbelieve his statement, as made in his affidavit. On the contrary Mr.

Bhattacharjee drew our attention to the fact that in fact this Mr. D.K.

Chakrabarty in his capacity as Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Calcutta

Tramways Company disposed of the appeal, as preferred by the writ petitioner on

30/11/1994 wherein after elaborate discussion, he was of the opinion that the

writ petitioner did not deserve any mercy due to his past conduct and thereby

rejected the appeal and in the process he confirmed the order of the General

Manager (Admn) discharging the appellant with effect from 1/6/1994. Mr. Bhattacharjee further submitted that this order was duly

communicated to the writ petitioner who received the same by putting his

signature on a paper acknowledging the receipt of the document. In this respect

he has drawn our attention to the Annexure 'R' which is at page 81 of the paper

book. According to Mr. Bhattacharjee, the claim, as made by the appellant/writ
 petitioner that his signature in this paper was obtained under duress cannot be

accepted without any proof whatsoever to that effect. As such, he argued that it

is clear that the appellant/writ petitioner was rightly dismissed from service by

virtue of the order initially passed by the General Manager which was confirmed

by the order dated 30/11/1994, as passed by the disciplinary authority. As regards the submissions of the learned advocate for the writ

petitioner/appellant that no disciplinary proceeding in its proper sense was

started against the writ petitioner and as such, the dismissal order cannot be

sustained in the eye of law, Mr. Bhattacharjee argued that in the Leave Rules of

the company, as was prevalent at the material time, it was mentioned therein

clearly that in case of continuous absence for more than 14 days, no formal

charge-sheet is required to be served against a delinquent. In this respect he has

relied upon the Rule IX (b) of the Leave Rules of the said company. According to

him, the order of discharge, so passed by the General Manager which was

subsequently confirmed in the appeal by the disciplinary authority was perfectly

legal and it cannot be said that the appellant/writ petitioner was dismissed from

service without any valid legal proceeding, as claimed by the writ petitioner. Mr. Bhattacharjee further argued that the appellant/writ petitioner is

guilty of suppression of material fact as he did not mention in his writ petition

that over the dispute in question, a conciliation proceeding is still pending before

the appropriate authority. As against this submission, learned advocate for the
 appellant pointed out that in the writ petition there was mention of this

conciliation proceeding and as such, according to him, it cannot be said that the

writ petitioner was guilty of suppression of fact. Against such submission, Mr.

Bhattacharjee argued that it was simply mentioned in the writ petition that a

conciliation proceeding was filed and the writ petitioner did not continue with the

said proceeding. Mr. Bhattacharjee by drawing our attention to the Annexure R-

1, which is at page 86 of the paper book, argued that from this document it will

be clear that the said conciliation proceeding was still pending before the

Conciliation Officer at least on 12/4/2004. As such Mr. Bhattacharjee argued

that on the basis of this document one can safely presume that the conciliation

proceeding was pending before the appropriate forum and there is nothing on

record to show that it was disposed of on the prayer of the appellant/writ

petitioner, as claimed by him. Lastly Mr. Bhattacharjee argued that the order of discharge was passed on

1/6/1994 and the writ petition was filed in the year 2005 i.e. after a lapse of 11

yeas. According to Mr. Bhattacharjee it is not permissible to allow the writ

petitioner/appellant to challenge the dismissal order after a lapse of 11 years and

if it is permitted at this stage, then it will cause serious prejudice and difficulties

to the administration as well as for the other employees. As such, Mr.

Bhattacharjee submitted that on the ground of this inordinate delay, the writ

petition, as filed by the appellant, is liable to be dismissed. According to Mr.

Bhattacharjee, there is nothing wrong in the impugned judgment passed by the
 learned trial Judge and consequently there is no scope for this court to interfere

with the said judgment of the learned court below. Accordingly, he prayed for

dismissal of the appeal. I have taken into consideration the submissions, as made by the learned

advocates for both the sides. The learned Advocate for the appellant first of all

argued that it is the admitted position that the appellant/writ petitioner was

discharged/dismissed from service without initiating proper disciplinary

proceeding. As such, he argued that said dismissal order of the writ petitioner

without initiating any disciplinary proceeding, is per se illegal and the

termination of service on the basis of such action on the part of the authority

concerned being void ab initio, same should immediately be set aside and the writ

petitioner should be permitted to join his duty. He further argued that by not

initiating the departmental proceeding against the writ petitioner, the authority

concerned practically deprived him of an opportunity to explain his part of his

case before the appropriate authority to the effect that the absence from duty was

not at all intentional. As against this, Mr. Bhattacharjee, learned advocate for the respondent

argued that the entire claim of the writ petitioner regarding his unauthorised

absence, was taken care of by the order, as passed by the disciplinary authority

and so the writ petitioner cannot have any grievance in this respect. Mr. Sarkar, learned advocate for the appellant argued that even if the

disciplinary authority took care of the submission of the writ petitioner regarding

his absence, that cannot cure the defect which already crept in due to non-

initiation of any disciplinary proceeding. In this respect he has relied upon the

decision reported in AIR 1977 SC 747 ( Mysore State Road Transport

Corporation vs. Mirja Khasim Ali Bag & Anr. ), wherein it was held that the

order passed in appeal by the departmental appellate authority does not validate

the invalid order of discharge. That apart, Mr. Sarkar, learned advocate for the appellant, in support of

his contention that the order of discharge without initiating any departmental

proceeding was illegal, cited decisions, reported in AIR 1971 SC 1409

( Deokinandan Prasad vs. The State of Bihar & Ors. ) and AIR 1966 SC 1364

( Mafatlal Narandas Barot vs. D. Rathod, Divisional Controller, State

Transport Mehsana & Anr. ). In the decision reported in AIR 1971 SC page 1409 (supra), it has been

held by the Apex Court that even though the rule prescribes automatic

termination of service for continuous absence, an order passed to that effect

without giving opportunity to the government servant offends Article 311 of the

Constitution of India. In the decision reported in AIR 1966SC page 1364 (supra) the Apex Court

observed as follows: Under that clause, it is obligatory on the part of the respondent, to give the appellant
 a reasonable opportunity to show cause, by providing him with a copy of the charge or
 charges, as well as the statemet of the allegations that have been made againsthim.
 Admittedly, the respondent did not frame a charge against the appellant nor conduct
 any enquiry. (12) It is true that the respondent may visit the punishment of discharge or removal
 from service on a person who has absented himself without leave and without
 reasonable cause, but this cannot entail automatic removal from service without
 giving such person reasonable opportunity to show cause why he be not removed. The
 appellant is entitled to a reasonable opportunity to show cause which includes an
 opportunity to deny his guilt and establish his innocence which he can do only when
 he knows what the charges levelled against him are and the allegations on which
 such charges are based. In our judgment, the appellant was entitled to an opportunity
 to show cause against the action proposed to be taken against him."

 So, it appears that the ratio, as decided in all those cases is to the effect

that without initiating a departmental proceeding and without giving an

opportunity to the concerned employee to give explanation in respect of the

alleged misdeed, the service of such employee should not be terminated. There

cannot be any dispute in this respect. So, I have got no hesitation to hold that

the manner in which the service of the writ petitioner/appellant was terminated
 appears to be not proper. Since it appears that the order of discharge, so passed

by the departmental authority, without initiating any departmental proceeding,

appears to be improper, so there cannot be any doubt that such defect could not

be cured by the order passed by the appellate authority. The decision reported in

AIR 1977 SC 747 ( Mysore State Road Transport Corporation vs. Mirja

Khasim Ali Bag & Anr. ) is very much relevant in this respect. In the said

decision the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as follows: In the decision reported in AIR 2007 SC pg. 1365 (supra) it was held that

relief sought for by the employee after a lapse of 17 long years should not be

allowed. Same principle was reiterated by the Supreme Court in the decision

reported in 1998 (6) SCC pg. 549 (supra) to the effect: Almost same principle was laid down by the Apex Court in its decision

reported in AIR 2007 SC pg. 2640 (supra) wherein it was clearly laid down that

delay is very significant in matters of granting relief and courts cannot come to

the rescue of the persons who are not vigilant of their rights. So, from the decisions of the Apex Court, as discussed above, it is clear

that the High Court should not allow the prayer for reinstatement when there is

inordinate delay in filing the Writ Petition. Under such circumstances, I am of

the opinion that the learned Trial Judge was perfectly justified in refusing to

grant relief to the writ petitioner, as prayed in the writ application. That apart, it has already been pointed out that the appellant/writ

petitioner was thrice dismissed from service on the ground of unauthorised

absence. So, it is clear that the writ petitioner is guilty of being of the habit of

absenting himself from duty unauthorisedly. In the decision reported in 2008 (1)

SCC pg. 224 (L & T KOMATSU Ltd. vs. M. Udaykumar) the Apex Court clearly

held that habitual absenteeism amounts to gross violation of discipline and in

case of his consequential dismissal from service the action should not be treated

to be harsh and no interference by the Court is warranted. As such, in view of

this decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court, I am also of the opinion that the
 appellant/writ petitioner should not be treated in a lenient way, as prayed by

him. Above all, we have already pointed out that the appellant/writ petitioner, in

order to obtain relief from the Writ Court, relied upon a forged document

claiming that it was issued by the Managing Director of the

respondent/company. The writ petitioner also did not disclose before the Writ

Court that a conciliation proceeding was pending in the Labour Court in respect

of the dispute in between the parties. Under such circumstances, there cannot be

any doubt that the appellant/writ petitioner did not approach the Writ Court

with clean hands which is sine qua non for obtaining an equitable relief from a

Court of equity i.e. the Writ Court. In my discussion above, I have already pointed out that there is reason to

believe that the appellant/writ petitioner practised fraud upon the Court by way

of producing a forged document. In the decision reported in AIR 2000 SC pg.

1165 (supra) the Supreme Court was of the opinion that in case it is found that

an order has been procured by a party by practising fraud upon the High Court

in exercise of its writ jurisdiction, then it is always desirable that the Writ Court

should immediately recall such order. In other words the Supreme Court clearly

deprecated this practice of obtaining order from the Writ Court by way of

practising fraud. So far as this hearing is concerned, it has already been pointed

out that the writ petitioner/appellant is guilty of practising fraud by producing a
 document which is at page 37 of the paper book before the Writ court claiming

the same to be a genuine one although from the affidavit of the person concerned

i.e. the Managing Director of the company there cannot be any doubt that no

such document was issued on behalf of such officer. This action on the part of

the appellant/writ petitioner undoubtedly leads us in coming to the conclusion

that the writ petitioner did not approach the Writ Court with clean hands. At the

very outset we have mentioned that even if a person has got good a case in

support of his contention, then also such person cannot be rewarded with any

relief by the Writ Court if it is found that said person was guilty of making an

attempt to obtain an order from the court by way of practising fraud and did not

approach the said court with clean hands. So far as the present case is

concerned, I have got no hesitation to hold that the appellant/writ petitioner is

guilty of practising fraud upon the Court and also he did not approach the Court

with clean hands. That apart, the appellant approached the Court with unusual

delay and there is no reasonable/believable explanation for that. Under such

circumstances, in my considered opinion, the appellant/writ petitioner is not

entitled to get any relief, as prayed for although, there may be defect in the order

passed by the authority in respect of the dismissal of the writ petitioner. It

appears that the learned Trial Judge considered all these aspects in dismissing

the writ application and I find no reason to interfere with the said finding of the

learned Trial Judge in view of the discussion, as made above. In the result, the appeal is dismissed on contest with Costs which is

quantified at Rs.5,000/- (Rupees Five thousand only). The same must be

deposited by the appellant with the State Legal Services Authority within one

month from today, failing which, the same shall be recoverable from the

Appellant as arrears of land revenue. Urgent photocopy of this judgment be handed over to the parties, if applied

for. (SADHAN KUMAR GUPTA, J.)

 I agree,

(TAPEN SEN, J.)