SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Almost got scammed by Online Legal India
DATE: 2024-05-29
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1d370j7/almost_got_scammed_by_online_legal_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

I would like to remind everyone to first of all NEVER CLICK THE FIRST SEARCH RESULT of any google search especially the “sponsored” ones that you come across. Now that this is out of the way..

I was trying to lodge a consumer grievance complaint against a certain online store. I must mention that I have previously lodged a successful consumer complaint before for something else too in the past and even then the website was difficult for me to navigate through. Anyway, I clicked the first search result’s link which took me to a convincing enough website. It was difficult to navigate as well so it looked believable, I listed my mail and phone number to lodge a complaint but as I was writing the complaint I instantly got a call from Online Legal India.

The guy on the other end asked me what my issue was and I told him my problem so he was like ok so here is what’s going to happen. “An advocate will lodge a complaint on your behalf, you can also mention a certain amount that you would want the company to compensate you for the mental harassment that they caused you”. See the company didn’t “mentally harass me” by repeatedly ghosting my mails and complaints.. but hearing this statement was so weird and absurd. This was my 1st red flag.

He sent me a link on my sms and the link redirected me to a payment portal and I asked him what this is? He was explaining how I need to be the first to lodge this complaint otherwise someone else will claim the compensation amount, yada yada and he was really hell bent to get me to click on the “Pay Now” button. The red flags here were waving brighter than ever. But during all this, I still couldn’t understand why I needed to make any payment at all???

So far so good he was referring to me constantly as “ji” but when I asked him why I needed to even make this payment in the first place he kept explaining his policy I was genuinely not able to understand him which probably got him frustrated and he dropped the “ji” and ended the sentence with “samajh gayi?” Could it not get any obvious?

So I googled the exact keywords “Online Legal India is asking me for money” which lead me to quora and the first comment itself claimed they were fake. The man on the call was still yapping so I just cut the call mid-yap, no further questions asked. I’m glad I didn’t go ahead and make the payment and kept asking questions but as much as it is embarrassing for me to confess, I actually didn’t even have half the amount that the dude was trying to get out of me lol.

For whosoever it may concern, if you have genuine consumer grievances that you may want to lodge; I have attached the official INGRAM link. Lodging complaint is FREE of cost so beware of bad actors.

This is the official website by the Department of Consumer Affairs : https://consumerhelpline.gov.in

TLDR : The company named Online Legal India almost scammed me by pretending to be a Consumer Support Portal