SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Fired last week ! ( Silent layoffs )
DATE: 2023-06-29
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14lkl07/fired_last_week_silent_layoffs/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey Hyderabad people,
I just came here to rant about my firing and make you aware of the company which did this fraud thing cuz this company is in Hyderabad and i reside in north india ( remote position) . 

So i was at this company for around 1.4 years and was an A employee so far. My work was good right from the beginning and in two managerial reviews - words like ‘extraordinary’ and ‘exceptional’ was used. I became a permanent employee from probation in 3 months and then also got promoted after a year. 

Last week - i got replaced in my project stating that i have been assigned to other project. I waited for a week but no response. Lastly on friday - i got a call from HR saying that my employment has been terminated. I started crying instantly - i wanted to know the reason and she said that my work was shady from the start and that my work was not upto expectations of the role.( like wtf?!?) and that i dont reply to people on slack and keka.

I was so furious i quickly talked to my manager and my fellow colleagues to ask if anyone gave my feedback and they said this is disappointing- &amp; they didnt say anything. I talked to HR again and she definitely said that it was final from the higher management and even after requesting and apologising a lot - she refused. She said that was my last day - and to hand in my resignation ( why ? Iwas fired right )
I was overwhelmed and scared that a termination letter will negatively affect my career so i agreed to send my resignation. 

I am still so hurt &amp; doubted myself for weeks cuz i worked my ass off for this company and after asking multiple times - she never disclosed who this higher management is and who gave this cumulative feedback about me? I mean i told her if my work was so bad then why hire me from start or promote me or make me a permanent employee . Everything felt shady ! 

I talked to another person who recently resign and he gave me insights that even tho he voluntarily resigned - he was forced to for weeks . He did all the work but he was never off probation. He kept asking for transparency but was never disclosed. He had to finally resign cuz of the inside politics.

I am totally heart wrenched from this incident. But now I understood that it was a blessing in disguise . I was planning to leave anyways and even thi it took a dark turn - i am gonna take some time off and rejuvenate. I am just sad to got laid off in such rough market conditions. Hope i get a better job soon. 

Anyways —
I am not ready to disclose the company name in public but i will in dm . So message me and i will rant more along with the name. You should be aware about it too definitely!!! 

Ps - please dont ask me to disclose here cuz anonymity is very imp to me rn in this situation.