The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will create a public repository for Digital Lending Apps, Governor Shaktikanta Das said at the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting on August 8, 2024. The repository aims to combat the spread of fraudulent digital lending apps. The RBI also announced that it will increasing transaction limits for UPI payments for tax payments and introducing “delegated payments” to set transactions limits for another individual’s UPI payments.

The central bank acknowledged that there have been many instances of fraudulent lending apps claiming to be RBI regulated entities (REs). The IT Ministry blocked 94 loan lending apps for displaying predatory behavior and the RBI canceled the licenses issued to two Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs)—Kudos Finance and Investments Private Limited and Credit Gate Private Limited—for their illegal digital lending operations in 2023. The RBI had also shared a list of legitimate Digital Lending Apps (DLAs) with the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) to be share with App stores in February 2023.

Following the issuance of the Digital Lending guidelines in September 02, 2022, the repository aims to help a customer verify the legitimacy of a lending app. It will be deployed by the regulated entities and will be available on RBI’s website. Regulated entities will submit data directly to the repository, without intervention from the RBI. The repository will be updated with details on the addition or deletion of DLAs.

The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology recommended that Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) maintain the repository of fraudulent loans apps and also periodically send hash values of these to app stores for appropriate action in its report on digital payments in February this year.

The RBI has previously reviewed and enhanced the limits for payments in categories like capital markets, IPO subscriptions, loan collections, insurance, medical and educational services etc. The Central Bank now intends to increase these transaction limits for tax payments. Currently, the transaction limit for UPI is capped at Rs. 1 lakh. The RBI has decided to enhance the limit for tax payments through UPI from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh per transaction.

“Delegated Payments” will allow an individual (primary user) to set a UPI transaction limit for another individual (secondary user) on the primary user’s bank account. The RBI stated that this will “add to the reach and usage of digital payments across the country.”

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event