(ORAL)

 This writ petition is filed to declare the action of respondent

No.3 - Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda, in not registering First

Information Report on the complaint of the petitioner against

respondent Nos.7 to 12, as illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional. 2. Learned Assistant Government Pleader for Home produced

written instructions and submitted that respondent No.6 - Station

House Officer, Saroornagar Police Station, received a complaint from

the petitioner on 07.04.2024, wherein it is stated that the petitioner's

2nd wife Malladi Mrudula Reddy - respondent No.7 along with Kenavar

Dharam Singh - respondent No.8 and Sharada - respondent No.9

criminally conspired to extort money from the petitioner by taking nude

photos and videos and blackmailed him, and by using the same, they

made the petitioner to give divorce to his 1st wife Aparna; and then by

indulging in blackmailing, the accused persons took Rs.60,00,000/-,

land and gold from the petitioner and continued blackmailing the

petitioner for more money. On the complaint of the petitioner, GD entry

was made. In the course of enquiry, it was revealed that Crime

No.475 of 2023 of Rajendranagar Police Station was registered on

12.04.2023 for the offences under Section 498-A IPC and Sections 3 2 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act on the complaint lodged by

respondent No.7. Apart from that, respondent No.7 also lodged a

complaint in DVC.No.22 of 2024 before the Metropolitan Magistrate,

Cyberabad. As per the evidence collected so far and enquiry done by

the police, it was revealed that the matter is civil in nature and the

petitioner was suggested to approach the Civil Court. 3. A copy of the notice, intimating the closure of the complaint of

the petitioner, along with written instructions is served on the learned

counsel for the petitioner. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

Investigation Officer has not conducted enquiry in accordance with the

guidelines issued by the Honourable Supreme Court in Lalitha

Kumari v. Government of U.P 1 and the police have not recorded the

statement of the petitioner nor have considered the

documents/evidence submitted by the petitioner. 5. As the case of the police is that preliminary enquiry is

conducted and the complaint of the petitioner was closed having found

the matter to be of civil in nature, this Court is not inclined to continue

this writ petition. 6. Accordingly, the writ petition is disposed of giving liberty to the 1 AIR 2012 SC 1515 3 petitioner to avail appropriate legal remedy if aggrieved by the closure

report. There shall be no order as to costs. As a sequel thereto, miscellaneous applications, if any, pending

in the writ petition stand closed. ____________________
 B. VIJAYSEN REDDY, J
Date: 13.06.2024
vv