The Madras High Court has directed the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to take down non-consensual intimate imagery of a lawyer within 48 hours, according to a report by LiveLaw. The lawyer had approached the court stating that her former partner had captured photos and videos of the couple’s intimacy without her permission. She learned that these photos and videos were circulating on social media and subsequently filed a police complaint. When the police failed to take action, she moved the court.

This comes amidst rising reports of non-consensual intimate imagery (NCII) circulating on social media. Mumbai-based non-profit Rati Foundation, which operates a helpline for individuals facing online harms, reported that 28.2% (or 82 in absolute terms) of the total calls to its helpline involved intimate content shared without consent in 2023–24. In the previous year, such cases accounted for 20% of total helpline reports, although the absolute number of NCII cases remained constant at 82.

Within the NCII category, Rati Foundation’s helpline saw sextortion and blackmail as the sub-category with the highest number of reports, at 25% (or 21 cases). The pattern in such complaints is similar to the lawyer’s case, female victims targeted by ex-partners, often in the context of long-term relationships. In other cases, the female victims were targeted by someone they had known for just one or two weeks, but with whom they had established a degree of intimacy and trust.

Besides sextortion and blackmail, the fourth-highest number of NCII reports pertained to digitally manipulated imagery, deepfakes, or AI-generated content. These constituted 9.8% of the total NCII reports received by the helpline between 2023–24.

According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there has been a 51.5% increase in the publication or transmission of obscene or sexually explicit acts in electronic form between 2018 and 2022. Publishing such content is penalised under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

Section 67 states that anyone who publishes or transmits any material containing sexually explicit acts or conduct shall be punishable with imprisonment of up to five years and a fine that may extend to Rs 10 lakh. A second violation is punishable with imprisonment for up to seven years and a fine of Rs 10 lakh. Between 2018 and 2022, crimes related to the publication and transmission of obscene or sexually explicit acts in electronic form saw an unusual jump in 2020, wherein there were 3008 such crimes across the country.

National Crime Record Bureau. Cyber Crimes from NCRB – Master Data: Year- and State-wise Types of Cyber Crimes committed in Violation of IT Act [Data set]. Dataful. https://dataful.in/datasets/19643

Additionally, the NCRB records crimes related to defamation or morphing of women under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Indecent Representation of Women Act. Reports of such crimes rose from 18 in 2018 to 61 in 2022, indicating a 238.8% increase. These include violations of Section 469 of the IPC, which deals with forgery intended to harm someone’s reputation.

National Crime Record Bureau. Cyber Crimes from NCRB – Master Data: Year- and State-wise Types of Cyber Crimes committed in Violation of IPC [Data set]. Dataful. https://dataful.in/datasets/19641

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event