IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 CWP No. 2868 of 2008

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. This writ petition exposes an ingenious land scam where

 large scale illegal transfer of land is being carried out in the State

 contrary to Section 118 of the H.P. Tenancy and Land Reforms Act,

 1972 (for short the ' Tenancy Act ') through various Co-operative

 Societies registered in State. Whether the reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the Judgment?yes. 2. The petitioners, who admittedly are the non- agriculturists, after becoming members of respondent No. 3 - Society,

 . were allotted plots by respondent No. 3 - Society in contravention to

 not only the aforesaid provisions of the Tenancy Act but also the

 provisions of the bye-laws framed by respondent No. 3 - Society. 3. Respondent No. 3-Society came to be registered under

 the provisions of H.P. Co-operative Societies Act, 1968 (for short the

 'Act') on 12.07.1990 vide registration No. 554 with the following

 objects as enumerated in Clause 4 of the bye laws, which reads

 thus:- "4. The objects of the society shall be:- the attainment of the above objects." 4. As would be evident, the object of the society amongst

 other was to purchase, take on long lease or acquire by exchange

 or otherwise land for construction of houses or housing colonies and

 then to sell or to exchange house sites with members, rent out or

 lease buildings for common use, surrender or accept surrender of

 houses or house sites. 5. In terms of the bye-laws of the Society, the area of

 operation as per Rule 11(1) of the H.P. Cooperative Societies Rules,

 1971 (for short the 'Rules') in order to make one eligible for admission

 as member of the Society, apart from others was that one must be

 an ordinary resident of villages Kattha and Billawalli in Tehsil

 Nalagarh. Even though the petitioners did not reside in the said

 villages within the area of operation of the Society, yet they were

 enrolled members by furnishing fake addresses, for example, the

 petitioner No. 1 had furnished the Address: MIG plot No. 91, Sector-4,

 Parwanoo, however, on enquiries made by the Society, it was

 revealed that the plot belonging to one Krishna Malhotra and not

 the petitioner No. 1. 6. Even otherwise, it is not in dispute that none of the

 petitioners belong to the area of operation of the Society, rather out

 . of 173 members only 14 members were found to be resident of area

 of operation of the Society, whereas remaining 159 members

 including the petitioners herein were found to be belonging to areas

 outside the operation of the Society. Therefore, their enrollment was

 illegal not only in terms of the bye laws of the Society but even the

 provisions of Section 118 of the Tenancy Act. Even otherwise, the

 addresses furnished by the petitioners of Parwanoo did not entitle

 them to be enrolled as members as the same admittedly fell outside

 the area of the operation of the Society. 7. The petitioners by way of this petition have assailed the

 cancellation of their membership as also the cancellation of plots

 which orders have been upheld by the authorities constituted under

 the Act and have been impugned herein. All the authorities have

 found the petitioners to have submitted fake affidavits in order to

 get membership by furnishing the address i.e. House No. 91, Sector- 4, Parwanoo, whereas they are permanent residents of Ludhiana

 (Punjab). 8. Rule 11(1) of the Rules lays down the condition of

 membership, of an individual and one of the essential condition as

 per clause (e) is that the individual should be resident of area of ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 5 operation of Society for the last more than six months. It is apt to

 reproduce Rule 11 (1) of the Rules, which reads thus:- 9. Whereas Section 118 of the Tenancy Act, reads thus:- . (ii) transfer by way of gift made or will executed, in
 favour of any or all legal heirs of the donor or the testator, as
 the case may be; (iii) transfer by way of lease of land or building in a
 municipal area; but shall include- (a) a benami transaction in which land is transferred

 to an agriculturist for a consideration paid or provided by a
 non-agriculturist; and (b) an authorization made by the owner by way of

 special or general power of attorney or by an agreement

 with the intention to put non-agriculturist in possession of the
 land and allow him to deal with the land in the like manner
 as if he is a real owner of that land. (2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to prohibit

 the transfer of land by any person in favour of.- (a) a landless labourer, or (b) a landless person belonging to a scheduled caste
 or a scheduled tribe; or (c) a village artisan; or (d) a land less person carrying on an allied pursuit; or
 (dd) a person who, on commencement of this Act

 worked and continues to work for gain in an estate situated
 in Himachal Pradesh; for the construction of a dwelling
 house, shop, or commercial establishment in a municipal
 area, subject to the condition that the land to be transferred
 does not exceed:- 300 square metres: or ; (g) a non-agriculturist who purchases or intends to
 purchase land for the construction of a house or shop, or

 purchases a built up house or shop, from the Himachal
 Pradesh State Housing and Urban Development Authority,

 established under the Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban
 Development Authority Act,2004, or from the Development
 Authority constituted under the Himachal Pradesh Town and

 Country Planning Act,1977 or from any other statutory
 Corporation set up for framing and execution of house
 accommodation schemes in the State under any State or
 Central enactment, or (h) a non-agriculturist with the permission of the State
 Government for the purposes that may be prescribed: (3-A) Where- (a) the Registrar or the Sub-Registrar, appointed
 under the Indian Registration Act, 1908 , before whom any
 document pertaining to transfer of land is presented for

 . registration comes to know or has reason to believe that the
 transfer of land is in contravention of sub-section (1); (b) a Revenue Officer either on an application made

 to him or on receipt of any information from any source
 comes to know or has reason to believe that any land has
 been transferred or is being transferred in contravention of
 the provisions of sub-section (1); Such Sub-Registrar, the Registrar or the Revenue
 Officer, as the case may be, shall make reference to the
 Collector of the District, in which land or any part thereof is

 situate, and the Collector, on receipt of such reference or

 where the Revenue Officer happens to be the Collector of
 the District himself, he either on an application made to him
 or on receipt of any information from any source comes to
 know or has reason to believe that any land has been

 transferred or is being transferred in contravention of the
 provisions of sub-section (1), shall after affording to the

 persons who are parties to the transfer, a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard and holding an enquiry,

 determine whether the transfer of land is or, is not in
 contravention of sub-section (1) and he shall, within six
 months from the date of receipt of reference made to him

 or such longer period as the Divisional Commissioner may
 allow for reasons to be recorded in writing record his
 decision thereon and intimate the findings to the Registrar,
 Sub-Registrar or the Revenue Officer concerned. (3-B). The person aggrieved by the findings recorded
 by the Collector that a particular transfer of land is in
 contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1), may within ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 10 a period of 30 days from the date on which the order
 recording such findings is made by the Collector or such
 longer period as the Divisional commissioner may allow for

 . reasons to be recorded in writing file an appeal to the
 Divisional Commissioner, to whom such Collector is
 subordinate, and the Divisional Commissioner may, after

 giving the parties an opportunity of being heard of the case
 from the Collector reverse, alter or confirm the order made
 by the collector and the order made by the Divisional
 Commissioner shall be final and conclusive. (3-C). (a) The Financial commissioner may, either on a
 report of a Revenue Officer or on an application or of his
 own motion, call for the record of any proceedings which

 are pending before, or have been disposed of by, any

 Revenue Officer subordinate to him and in which no appeal
 lies thereto, for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the
 legality or propriety of such proceedings or order made
 therein and may pass such order in relation thereto as he

 may think fit. (b) No order shall be passed under this sub-section

 which adversely effects any person unless such person has
 been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard; (3-D) Where the Collector of the District under sub-
 section (3A), in case an appeal is not made within the
 prescribed period or the Divisional Commissioner in appeal

 under sub-section (3-B) or the Financial Commissioner in
 revision, under subsection (3C), decides that the transfer of
 land is in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1),
 such transfer shall be void abinitio and the land involved in
 such transfer together with structures, buildings or other
 attachments, if any, shall in the prescribed manner, vest in
 the State Government free from all encumbrances; and ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 11 (4) It shall be lawful for the State Government to
 make use of the land which is vested or may be vested in it
 under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3D) for such purposes

 . as it may deem fit to do so. Explanation-I. For the purpose of this section, the
 expression "land" shall include- (i) land recorded as "Gair-mumkin", "Gair-mumkin
 makan" or any other Gair-mumkin land, by whatever name
 called in the revenue records, and (ii) land which is a site of a building in a town or a

 village and is occupied or left out not for agricultural
 purposes or purposes subservient to agriculture, but shall not
 include a built up area in a municipal area; r Explanation-II.- For the purpose of this section the

 expression "municipal area" means the territorial area of a
 Nagar Panchayat, Cantonment Board, Municipal Council or
 a Municipal Corporation constituted under any law for the
 time being in force. 10. Evidently, Section 118 of the Tenancy Act starts with

 non obstante clause and it is well known that a non obstante clause is

 a legislative device which is usually implied to give overriding effects

 to certain provisions over contrary provisions that may be found

 either in the same enactment or some other enactment, that is to

 say, to avoid operation and effect of contrary provisions. 11. In Chandavarkar Sita Ratna Rao vs. Ashalata S. Guram (1986) 4 SCC 447, the scope of non obstante clause was explained

 in the following words: 12. It is otherwise elementary that a provision of the Act,

 statutory enactment will override the provisions of the Rules framed

 under any Act and thus the provisions of Section 118 of the

 Tenancy Act would essentially have an overriding effect over the

 provisions of Rule 11(1) of the Rules. 13. While construing provisions of the Cooperative Act , the

 Court is not oblivious to the fact that more than 5000 different types

 of Societies registered as business entity under the Act, some of

 which are; PACS, Thrift and Credit N/A, Urban Co-operative Banks,

 Housing Coop. Societies, Consumer Stores, Weaver Societies,

 Industrial Societies, Dairy and Animal Husbandry, Marketing and

 Processing, Fisheries, Transport Societies, Labour and Construction, ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 13 Other Non Agri. Societies, State and Central Coop. Banks and Agri. & Rural Dev. Bank etc.

 . 14. In Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) and the

 Agricultural and Rural Development Banks, the membership is only

 given to the agriculturists or bonafide residents of Himachal Pradesh

 because the services rendered by these societies are directly

 related to agriculture and purposes subservient to agriculture. The

 ownership of land is one of the basic criteria for acquiring

 membership in these societies and thus, the bye-laws of these

 societies provide for the same in view of the provision contained in

 clause (g) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 11 of the Rules. 15. In Urban Co-operative Banks and Non-Agriculture Thrift

 and Credit Societies (NATC), the membership consists of

 businessmen, salary earners, non-agriculturists, etc. For their

 financial needs persons of these categories become members of

 such societies and get the services. In order to avail the services, it is

 necessary to become member in such societies. It is not required

 that salary earners and traders must be from out of the categories

 of agriculturists or bona fide residents for, a large number of these

 persons belong to States other than the H.P. Therefore, the

 membership in these type of societies is given to the ordinary

 residents of the area of operation of the societies who have been ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 14 residing there for the last six months and are in occupation of some

 legitimate profession. In case any restriction is imposed qua the

 . ordinary residence, a large number of individual would be deprived

 of the services rendered by these societies. It is also clarified that

 these societies cannot deal with non-members as for rendering or

 availing financial services it is imperative to make them members to

 bring them within the ambit of arbitration clause under the Act for

 securing safety of societies' funds in case of default by any one of

 them. r 16. Likewise, in other categories of societies viz. transport,

 fisheries, industrial, weaver, labour and construction, consumer

 stores, etc. ordinary residents residing in the area of operation of

 the concerned society for the last six months are made members

 for fulfilling their specific needs and earning livelihood. As the

 objects of these societies vary from society to society therefore, the

 class of membership and their requirement also differ. For example,

 the labour and construction societies, weaver societies, fisheries

 societies, transport societies, etc. are registered with a specific

 object to earn livelihood. In case clause (e) supra is construed to

 mean permanent or bona fide residents, the ordinary residents

 intending to acquire membership of such societies would be

 discouraged and lose their right of livelihood. 17. Insofar as membership in housing societies is

 concerned, if a housing society is formed by agriculturists and

 . consists membership of that class only, it can allot plots to its

 members. But in the case of other House Building cooperative

 Societies where ordinary residents or non-agriculturist are enrolled

 as members such societies could only allot flats or houses to its

 members and not the plots. 18. As already observed above, out of 173 members of the

 Society only 14 members were found the residents of the area of

 the operation of the Society whereas remaining 159 members

 including the petitioners were found outside the area of the

 operation of the Society. This clearly proves the large scale land

 scam that is existing in the State. 19. As per Chapter VIII of the Act , the accounts of the

 respondent department is assigned and entrusted work of audit,

 inquiry, inspection and, therefore, it is difficult to imagine that the

 Society continue to enroll members contrary to the law when the

 officials of the Cooperative department being in peridelicto with

 those responsible for the scam. After all despite there being large

 scale bungling and manipulation, there is hardly any proper

 supervision. Such malpractices and irregularities are offences not

 only against the Society as a whole but against the system ::: Downloaded on - 10/11/2017 11:26:02 :::HCHP 16 established by law. The members of the Society have committed

 forgery by playing systematic fraud in a pre-planned scheme by

 . inventing a novel device to defy the law i.e. the provisions of Section 118 of the Tenancy Act. 20. It is, therefore, high time that there is crack down on

 such land scams. Accordingly, all the Deputy Commissioners of the

 State are directed to conduct a thorough probe and identify such

 societies and members who have blatantly violated the provisions

 of the Tenancy Act and ensure that not only criminal cases are

 registered against them but appropriate proceedings for having

 the properties vested in the State are also initiated. The Registrar,

 Cooperative Societies as also the other government agencies

 including the Police Department are directed to ensure all

 necessary assistance for identifying such societies / members who

 have allotted plots or purchased plots contrary to the provisions of

 the Tenancy Act . It is clarified that this order shall not apply to the

 societies or members who have purchased built up structure as is

 permissible under the provisions of the Tenancy Act . 21. Adverting to the facts, since the petitioners admittedly

 are not only non-agriculturists but are not even the residents of the

 area of the society and have themselves blatantly violated the law,

 no relief or indulgence can be shown in favour of such litigants. 22. Consequently, the writ petition, as regards reliefs

 claimed therein, merits dismissal and is accordingly dismissed. The

 . Deputy Commissioners are directed to submit their reports within a

 period of six months and for that purpose case be listed on

 10.4.2018.