The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on June 2 released draft cybersecurity directions for payment system operators (PSOs) and digital payments, outlining baseline security measures and governance mechanisms for identifying and managing cybersecurity risks.

Called the Draft Master Directions on Cyber Resilience and Digital Payment Security Controls for Payment System Operators, the draft is open for consultation until June 30, 2023 . Interested stakeholders can submit their feedback to [email protected] .

With the financial sector being a highly sensitive and lucrative target for cyberattacks and cyber fraud, baseline security norms are the need of the hour, but they also pose a significant compliance burden on payment system operators, which will have to be assessed.

These Directions are being issued under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, and will co-exist with any existing instructions on security and risk mitigation measures for payments done using cards, Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs), and mobile banking, RBI informed.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

The Directions apply to all RBI-authorized non-bank payment system operators (PSOs). The PSOs are also responsible for ensuring adherence to the Directions by any unregulated entities that they have linkages with as part of their digital payments ecosystem (payment gateways, third-party service providers, vendors, merchants, etc.).

As for timelines for implementing the Directions, RBI has said that it will adopt a phased implementation approach:

Large non-bank PSOs: April 1, 2024

Medium non-bank PSOs: April 1, 2026

Small non-bank PSOs: April 1, 2028

The Board of Directors (Board) of the PSO is responsible for ensuring “oversight over information security risks, including cyber risk and cyber resilience,” but can delegate oversight to a sub-committee which should meet at least once every quarter.

In addition to the above measures, the following is applicable for all digital payment transactions:

For mobile payment providing PSOs, specifically: PSOs providing mobile payment services should additionally comply with the following security practices:

For card payments, specifically:

For prepaid payment instruments, specifically:

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event