Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners. 2. The petitioners were Accused Nos.3 and 4 before the

Trial Court, in the following circumstances: 3. On the basis of the complaint, the Investigating Officer

had proceeded to the spot and seized the articles which had

been used for the purpose of causing theft of electricity and

further proceedings were taken to collect the evidence and a

charge-sheet came to be filed against Accused Nos.1 to 5

alleging offences punishable under Sections 39 and 44 of the

Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (hereinafter referred to as 'the IE

Act ', for brevity) read with Section 379 of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as ' I.P.C .', for brevity)

before the court of the JMFC, Raibag. The Magistrate after

receiving the charge-sheet, took cognizance and registered the

case against accused and framed charges in course of time. The

accused having pleaded not guilty and having claimed to be

tried, the prosecution examined PW1 to PW14 and marked

Exhibits P1 to P18, apart from material objects 1 and 2. The 5 statement of the accused were recorded under Section 313 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to

' Cr.P.C .', for brevity) and after hearing the arguments of both

sides, the Trial Court had framed the following points for

consideration: 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner would contend

that the findings of the courts below are contrary to the

evidence on record. The case of the prosecution was that the

installation in question stood in the name of Accused No.1.

Accused No.2 was the son of Accused No.1 and that by fixing

the changeover switch to the meter board, theft having been 7 committed, it is only accused Nos.1, 2 and 5 who were

responsible for the same. It could not be said that the present

petitioners had assisted the offence, since they had been

working as meter readers from the year 1995, whereas the

changeover switch had been in place since 1990 and there was

even a report by the present petitioners that the meter was not

recording the consumption of electricity, which would on the

face of it indicate that they were not responsible for any such

theft and they had brought to the attention of the Department

the fact that the meter in question was not functioning properly.

Therefore, this would not point to their active connivance and

abetment of the commission of the offence by the other

accused. The allegation insofar as the petitioners are concerned

about fixing the changeover switch, is contrary to the assertion

that it was Accused No.5 who had fixed the changeover switch.

Therefore, it could not be said that the accusation against the

present petitioners was in common with the accusation made

against the other accused. As meter readers, they would visit 8 the premises of the Accused Nos.1 and 2 only once in a month.

Therefore, the petitioners being accused of active connivance

and abetment, is misleading. The change over switch is

normally fixed in every establishment where continuous power

supply is a must and a standby generator is utilised. There is no

denial that the establishment of Accused Nos 1 and 2 was

provided with a diesel generator and therefore, a changeover

switch on the meter board was not out of place. The discovery

that the change over switch was a dummy, meant to disconnect

the connection to the meter, was not to the knowledge of the

petitioners. It was by chance discovered at the time of the raid

by the complainant and his staff. That by itself would not bring

home the allegations against the present petitioners to the effect

that they have actively connived with the commission of theft

of electricity. There was no charge of an offence punishable

under Section 39A of the Indian Electricity Act or under Section 34 of the IPC. Therefore, to allege that there is a

common intention as among the accused, is not forthcoming in 9 the complaint and hence, it could not be a common allegation

made against the present petitioners along with the other

accused. Further and more significantly, the petitioners being

Government servants, there was also a Departmental inquiry

conducted in respect of the very allegations of having

committed misconduct in joining hands with the Accused Nos.1

and 2 in enabling them to commit theft of electricity by

tampering with the meter board. The inquiry which was a full-

fledged inquiry, had resulted in the petitioners being absolved

of any misconduct. When the allegations and the evidence

tendered in those proceedings were common with those of

evidence tendered in criminal proceedings, on a preponderance

of probabilities if there could be no findings against the

petitioners at the Departmental inquiry, it is inexplicable that

the court below has proceeded to hold that the charges which

were identical insofar as the present petitioners are concerned

insofar as the commission of theft of electricity, having been

established beyond all reasonable doubt, is not tenable. It is 10 well-settled that if the charges and the evidence are identical at

the Departmental inquiry and in criminal proceedings, the

Government servants who are absolved of such charges at the

Departmental inquiry would have the benefit of the same and

the criminal proceedings would naturally have to be dropped.

Though there is a variance of this established principle by a

recent decision of the Apex Court, the fact remains that there

was no contra evidence in the criminal proceedings, which

could have led to the conviction of the present petitioners.

Therefore, notwithstanding that the Departmental inquiry

proceedings had not been produced before the Trial Court or the

Appellate Court, the same cannot be overlooked in considering

the fate of the petitioners who would stand to lose their

employment if the conviction based on the above findings is to

be sustained. Therefore, the learned counsel for the petitioners

would make a fervent plea to reconsider the concurrent findings

of both the courts below insofar as these petitioners are

concerned. 5. The learned Additional State Public Prosecutor on the

other hand would vehemently seek to justify the findings of the

court below and would point out that the reasoning of the Trial

Court, and more so, of the Appellate Court is sound and

extensive. There is little scope in revision to overturn the

findings of fact and there being categorical findings against the

present petitioners of abetment and connivance, there can be no

scope for any lenience. In any event, the court below have only

thought it fit to impose punishment by way of fine and a very

nominal fine. Hence, there is no injustice caused and the

punishment cannot be said to be disproportionate to the offence

alleged. The fact that the petitioners may stand to lose their

employment by virtue of the conviction, is not a ground to set

aside the findings. Further, the petitioners being absolved of

the charges at the Departmental enquiry, cannot ipso facto be a

ground for acquittal in criminal proceedings. This is as laid

down by the Apex Court in the case of State N.C.T of Delhi vs. 12 Ajay Kumar Tyagi (Criminal Appeal 1334/2012), and seeks that

the petition be dismissed. 6. On the above rival contentions, as rightly contended by

the learned Additional State Public Prosecutor, the scope for

interference in revision when there are concurrent findings of

fact by both the Trial Court as well as the Appellate Court, is

limited. However, it is not axiomatic that the revision petition

ought to be rejected merely because there are concurrent

findings of fact. It would be dependent on facts and

circumstances of each case, as to whether this court in its

revisional power could interfere even with such concurrent

findings of fact. The present petitioners are not shown to have

benefited by the commission of theft of electricity as alleged.

The allegation against these petitioners is of having enabled or

assisted or otherwise shielded the accused in the continued theft

of electricity in the mode as aforesaid. This is on a presumption

that the present petitioners who were meter readers had over the 13 years, permitted Accused Nos.1 and 2 to commit theft of

electricity. By the mere fact that this changeover switch which

was used intermittently to disconnect the meter from the power

connection, thereby preventing the meter from recording the

actual consumption of electricity, could not be presumed to be

within the knowledge of the petitioners, merely because the

complainant and his staff had discovered the same by chance, at

the time of commission of the raid. This fact to be established,

required the prosecution to tender evidence which would

establish the same beyond all reasonable doubt. To that extent,

the courts below have proceeded on a presumption that the

same has occurred continuously to the knowledge of the

petitioners. As alleged in the complaint, the presumption was

that such theft of electricity was being committed from the year

1990, whereas the present petitioners had joined as meter

readers and were involved with the establishment since the year

1995 and the incident having come to light in the year 1999, it

could not be said that the petitioners were solely responsible in 14 shielding the accused Nos.1 and 2 in committing theft of

electricity. The prosecution had not chosen to address the

circumstance that there was theft of electricity even before the

time that the present petitioners were involved. Hence, to

proceed on the presumption that it was to the knowledge of the

present petitioners, is unfair to the petitioners. Further the

allegation that they were receiving illegal gratification in order

to cover up for the accused Nos.1 and 2 as regards the

commission of theft of electricity is also not established beyond

all reasonable doubt. When the theft was huge, to presume that

the present petitioners were receiving a paltry sum of Rs.200/-

per month to maintain silence, is difficult to accept. Further, as

it is not seriously denied or disputed that there was a

Departmental inquiry conducted against the present petitioners

by their employer in respect of the very same allegations and

that they have been absolved at the Departmental inquiry, is

also to be taken into consideration in considering the

seriousness of the allegations against the present petitioners. It 15 is no doubt true that the Apex Court has taken a different view

from the established principle as it held the field, namely that if

a delinquent is absolved of the charges at a Departmental

inquiry and if the case could not be proved against the

delinquent, even on preponderance of probabilities, the

principle that it certainly cannot be established in a criminal

case based on the very same evidence which required a higher

degree of proof and therefore, it could not be established

beyond all reasonable doubt for a given principle and hence the

criminal proceedings being dropped, has been reversed by the

said decision . However, it is to be noticed that on the facts of

that case, that Departmental inquiry had been concluded but the

Inquiry Officer did not choose to pronounce the findings on the

footing that the criminal proceedings were pending and that the

criminal proceedings should come to a close before findings

absolving the delinquent could be pronounced. This had been

challenged under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. before the High

Court and the High Court having quashed the criminal 16 proceedings, was sought to be questioned before the Apex

Court. It is in that context that the Apex Court had held that the

High Court was in error in having quashed the criminal case,

for it was always possible that in criminal proceedings, the

finding of guilt would have been arrived at and it was then

necessary to even review the findings at the Departmental

inquiry on such findings in the criminal proceedings. 7. In the present case on hand, there is no such infirmity.

The petitioners having been given a clean chit in the

Departmental inquiry proceeding on the evidence ranged

against the present petitioners in the criminal proceedings, the

findings having been given holding the petitioners jointly

responsible for the commission of theft of electricity, is not

tenable. Therefore, it cannot be said that the prosecution had

established its case beyond all reasonable doubt as against the

petitioners. Consequently, the petition is allowed. The

judgment of the Trial Court as well as the Lower Appellate 17 Court insofar as these petitioners are concerned, are set aside

and these petitioners are acquitted. Consequently, the fine

amount if any paid by the petitioners shall be refunded to them. Sd/- JUDGE

KS