voluntarily agreeable to the condi on that ll the conclusion of the trial before the trial
court, the pe oner shall keep only one mobile number, which is men oned in AADHAR
card, and within ﬁEeen days of release from prison undertakes to disconnect all other
mobile numbers. The pe oner contends that the further pre-trial incarcera on would
cause an irreversible injus ce to the pe oner and family. 4. The State opposes bail. 5. Facts of the case are being taken from reply dated 27.02.2024 ﬁled by concerned
DySP which reads as follows:- medical stream. There are 105 Pharmacy Colleges func oning in the State
 of Punjab. At the me of counseling, all the seats in government colleges
 used to be ﬁlled whereas the seats in private colleges remains vacant and
 as per the direc ons of the government, the private colleges used to ﬁll
 these seats at their own level. In order to ﬁll these seats, private colleges
 used to get 10+2 medical/non-medical stream cer ﬁcates of students
 from the outer states without any examina on despite the fact that these
 courses are regular courses, which have to be passed by aCending regular
 classes. ThereaDer, the Registrar of Punjab Pharmacy Council and other
 oﬃcials issued registra on numbers to the students without verifying
 their 10+2 cer ﬁcates and in lieu thereof, they obtained huge amounts as
 illegal gra ﬁca on. 3. That on the basis of the said registra on numbers, students had
 obtained jobs in diﬀerent ins tu ons and also run their medical shops.
 During the tenure of PKS Bhardwaj as Registrar (PPC) many irregulari es
 were found and was terminated from services was re-instated at same
 post on 24.12.2013. The record of 453 Pharmacists has been veriﬁed from
 Medical College Amritsar, Medical College Faridkot and Medical College
 Pa ala. There are irregulari es in the reports submiCed by Medical
 College Amritsar and Medical College Faridkot. Not only this, the
 cer ﬁcates of 143 students were found to be fake, but no appropriate
 ac on was taken against these students. Dr. Abhininder Singh Thind (now
 died), Dr. Tejbir Singh and Parveen Kumar Bhardwaj have violated the
 rules of Punjab State Pharmacy Council during their respec ve tenures as
 they, in connivance with Pharmacy Colleges, did not verify the 10+2
 cer ﬁcates of the students which were issued by unapproved boards. The
 Pharmacists who obtained licenses on the basis of forged cer ﬁcates are
 playing with the health of general public. 4. That during Inves ga on the owners/principals of various colleges
 have been nominated as accused in this case due to the issuance of 2 2 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988
 forged and fabricated Diploma Cer ﬁcates as well as 10+2 cer ﬁcates
 allegedly issued by diﬀerent school educa on boards. During the course
 of Inves ga on accused Rama Kaudi concerned Principal of Punjab
 Mul purpose medical Ins tute Sehna, accused Baljinder Singh Bajwa
 concerned principal of Lala Lajpat Rai college of Pharmacy Moga, and
 accused Dr. Gurpreet Singh Gill owner and accused present pe oner
 Sarbjit Singh Brar the then Principal of Aadesh Ins tute of Medical Science
 and Research Bathinda have been arrested in this case. 5. That during the inves ga on, statements of three students who
 did D. Pharmacy Course from Adesh Ins tute of Medical Science and
 Research Bathinda owned by the Dr. Gurpreet Singh Gill have been
 recorded and it has been found that they did not complete the course
 regularly i.e. by aCending the classes, rather the one student namely
 Jaswant Singh s/o Karam Singh gave money to the owner and present
 pe oner Principal of the said college in order to get the cer ﬁcates. 6. That the allega ons against the pe oner are serious in nature.
 The FIR has been registered aDer a detailed inquiry and even aDer
 registra on of the FIR, the case is being inves gated by the Inves ga ng
 Agency thoroughly and the pe oner has played an ac ve role in en re
 crime. There are speciﬁc statement of the student against the pe oner
 with regard to payment of the money. It is a case of big scam being run by
 the accused persons in connivance of one another. In view of the gravity
 of the oﬀence, the custody period of the pe oner in view of the nature of
 the allega ons and the wide ramiﬁca ons of the oﬀence involved,
 therefore the present Pe oner is not en tled to the concession of Bail." 6. Counsel for the pe oner argued as follows:- medical streams. 2. The students aspiring to take the course send their respec ve
 applica ons to the State Board of Technical Educa on, Chandigarh
 (hereinaDer referred to as 'the Board'), where aDer following due
 procedure and the counseling process, the students are selected for the
 course. Among the selected students, alloca on is made to various
 private recognized ins tu ons. 3. If some seats in the private Pharmacy ins tu ons remained
 unfulﬁlled, the concerned ins tute is permiCed to provisionally admit the
 eligible students aDer veriﬁca on of the mandatory tes monials. The
 cases of such provisionally admiCed students are required to be 3 3 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988
 forwarded to the Board. The Board veriﬁes each case and aDer approval
 of the Board, the admission is regularized by the private ins tu on. Note: At the stage of admission, Punjab Pharmacy Council (hereinaDer
 aDer referred to as 'the Council') does not come into the picture at all." 7. Counsel for the pe oner further argued that the pe oner has no concern with
the alleged occurrence. The Pe oner is neither the cer ﬁcate issuing authority in the
Pharmacy College, nor he has any concern with the checking of authen city of the
cer ﬁcates submiFed by students, as men oned above the same was the job of
technical board. It is worthwhile to men on here that the Adesh Medical College
became State University by the Act No. 6 of 2012 in the month of June 2012, whereas
the Adesh Ins tute of Medical Sciences was serving as Medical College before the year
2012 which was aﬃliated with Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. The
procedure for admission before the Adesh Medical College became State University was
that the cer ﬁcates received from the students were went through University and
through concerned authority who by following due legal procedure aEer verifying the
said cer ﬁcate gave clearance with regard to admission. It is per nent to men on here
that in the case of D- Pharma students their cer ﬁcates were sent for veriﬁca on by the
Principal of that college to Pharmacy Council, who aEer veriﬁca on used to give
clearance for the admission. The students who were given admission were selected from
the list of candidates shared by Punjab State Technical Educa on Board by conduc ng
counselling at their own level. The present pe oner had no role in verifying those
cer ﬁcates, whereas even any oﬃcial from the main administra ve body had no speciﬁc
role in either verifying or sending those documents for veriﬁca on. The present
pe oner who was neither in the administra ve body nor in any other func oning of
the University is being impleaded in the present FIR in an illegal and arbitrary manner as
in the above men oned legal process, there was no role or any aFribu on to the
present pe oner so that he may have commiFed alleged crime as narrated by the
inves ga ng agency in the present FIR. 8. As per paragraph 4 of the bail pe on, the pe oner is in custody since
15.01.2024. Given the penal provisions invoked viz-a-viz pre-trial custody, coupled with
the primafacie analysis of the nature of allega ons, and the other factors peculiar to this
case, there would be no jus ﬁability for further pre-trial incarcera on at this stage,
subject to the compliance of terms and condi ons men oned in this order. 9. In Sanjay Chandra v. Central Bureau of Inves ga on, (2012) 1 SCC 40, Supreme
Court holds, 4 4 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988
 [28] We are conscious of the fact that the accused are charged
 with economic oﬀences of huge magnitude. We are also conscious
 of the fact that the oﬀences alleged, if proved, may jeopardize the
 economy of the country. At the same me, we cannot lose sight of
 the fact that the inves ga ng agency has already completed
 inves ga on and the charge sheet is already ﬁled before the
 Special Judge, CBI, New Delhi. Therefore, their presence in the
 custody may not be necessary for further inves ga on. We are of
 the view that the appellants are en tled to the grant of bail
 pending trial on stringent condi ons in order to ally the
 apprehension expressed by CBI. 10. The possibility of the accused inﬂuencing the inves ga on, tampering with
evidence, in mida ng witnesses, and the likelihood of ﬂeeing jus ce, can be taken care
of by imposing elabora ve and stringent condi ons. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of
Delhi ), 2020:INSC:106 [Para 92], (2020) 5 SCC 1, Para 92, the Cons tu onal Bench held
that unusually, subject to the evidence produced, the Courts can impose restric ve
condi ons. 11. Without commen ng on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons men oned above, the pe oner makes a case for bail,
subject to the following terms and condi ons, which shall be over and above and
irrespec ve of the contents of the form of bail bonds in chapter XXXIII of CrPC , 1973. 12. In Madhu Tanwar v. State of Punjab , 2023:PHHC:077618 [Para 10, 21], CRM-M-
27097-2023, decided on 29-05-2023, this court observed,

 [10] The exponen al growth in technology and ar ﬁcial
 intelligence has transformed iden ﬁca on techniques
 remarkably. Voice, gait, and facial recogni on are incredibly
 sophis cated and pervasive. Impersona on, as we know it
 tradi onally, has virtually become impossible. Thus, the remedy
 lies that whenever a judge or an oﬃcer believes that the
 accused might be a ﬂight risk or has a history of ﬂeeing from
 jus ce, then in such cases, appropriate condi ons can be
 inserted that all the expenditure that shall be incurred to trace
 them, shall be recovered from such person, and the State shall
 have a lien over their assets to make good the loss. [21] In this era when the knowledge revolu on has just begun,
 to keep pace with exponen al and unimaginable changes the
 technology has brought to human lives, it is only ﬁPng that the
 dependence of the accused on surety is minimized by giving
 alterna ve op ons. Furthermore, there should be no insistence
 to provide permanent addresses when people either do not
 have permanent abodes or intend to re-locate. 5 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988 13. Given above, provided the pe oner is not required in any other case, the
pe oner shall be released on bail in the FIR cap oned above, in the following terms: Ten thousand only (INR 10,000/-), with the clause of automa c renewal
 of the principal and the interest rever ng to the linked account, made in
 favor of the 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' of the concerned district, or
 blocking the aforesaid amount in favour of the concerned 'Chief Judicial
 Magistrate'. Said ﬁxed deposit or blocking funds can be from any of the
 banks where the stake of the State is more than 50% or from any of the
 well-established and stable private sector banks. In case the bankers are
 not willing to make a Fixed Deposit in such eventuality it shall be
 permissible for the pe oner to prepare an account payee demand draE
 favouring concerned Chief Judicial Magistrate for the similar amount. (c). Such court shall have a lien over the funds un l the case's closure or
 discharged by subs tu on, or up to the expiry of the period men oned
 under S. 437-A CrPC, 1973, and at that stage, subject to the proceedings
 under S. 446 CrPC, the en re amount of ﬁxed deposit, less taxes if any,
 shall be endorsed/returned to the depositor. (d). The pe oner is to also execute a bond for aFendance in the
 concerned court(s) as and when asked to do so. The presenta on of the
 personal bond shall be deemed acceptance of the declara ons made in
 the bail pe on and all other s pula ons, terms, and condi ons of
 sec on 438(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, and of this bail
 order. (e). While furnishing personal bond, the pe oner shall men on the
 following personal iden ﬁca on details: 14. The pe oner shall not inﬂuence, browbeat, pressurize, make any inducement,
threat, or promise, directly or indirectly, to the witnesses, the Police oﬃcials, or any
other person acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of the case, to dissuade
them from disclosing such facts to the Police, or the Court, or to tamper with the
evidence. 15. Pe oner to comply with their undertaking made in the bail pe on, made
before this court through counsel as reﬂected at the beginning of this order. If the
pe oner fails to comply with any of such undertakings, then on this ground alone, the
bail might be canceled, and the vic m/complainant may ﬁle any such applica on for the
cancella on of bail, and the State shall ﬁle the said applica on. 16. The pe oner is directed not to keep more than one prepaid SIM, i.e., one pre-
paid mobile phone number, ll the conclusion of the trial; however, this restric on is
only on prepaid SIMs [mobile numbers] and not on post-paid connec ons or landline
numbers. The pe oner must comply with this condi on within ﬁEeen days of release
from prison. The concerned DySP shall also direct all the telecom service providers to
deac vate all prepaid SIM cards and prepaid mobile numbers issued to the pe oner,
except the one that is men oned as the primary number/ default number linked with
the AADHAAR card and further that ll the no objec on from the concerned SHO, the
mobile service providers shall not issue second pre-paid SIM/ mobile number in the
pe oner's name. Since, as on date, in India, there are only four prominent mobile
service providers, namely BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone-Idea, and Reliance Jio, any other
telecom service provider are directed to comply with the direc ons of the concerned
Superintendent of Police/Commissioner of Police, issued in this regard and disable all
prepaid mobile phone numbers issued in the name of the pe oner, except the main
number/default number linked with AADHAR, by taking such informa on from the
pe oner's AADHAR details or any other source, for which they shall be legally en tled
by this order. This condi on shall con nue ll the comple on of the trial or closure of
the case, whichever is earlier. In Vernon v. The State of Maharashtra , 2023 INSC 655,
[para 45], while gran ng bail under Unlawful Ac vi es (Preven on) Act, 2002, Supreme
Court had directed imposi on of the similar condi on, which reads as follows, "(d) Both 7 7 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988
the appellants shall use only one Mobile Phone each, during the me they remain on
bail and shall inform the Inves ga ng Oﬃcer of the NIA, their respec ve mobile
numbers." 17. During the trial's pendency, if the pe oner repeats or commits any oﬀence where
the sentence prescribed is more than seven years or violates any condi on as s pulated
in this order, it shall always be permissible to the respondent to apply for cancella on of
this bail. It shall further be open for any inves ga ng agency to bring it to the no ce of
the Court seized of the subsequent applica on that the accused was earlier cau oned
not to indulge in criminal ac vi es. Otherwise, the bail bonds shall remain in force
throughout the trial and aEer that in Sec on 437-A of the Cr.P.C ., if not canceled due to
non-appearance or breach of condi ons. 18. The condi ons men oned above imposed by this Court are to endeavour that the
accused tries to reform, does not repeat the oﬀence and to provide a sense of security
to the vic m. In Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi , 2022:INSC:735 [Para 28],
Writ Pe on (Criminal) No 279 of 2022, Para 29, decided on July 20, 2022, A Three-
Judge bench of Hon'ble Supreme Court holds that "The bail condi ons imposed by the
Court must not only have a nexus to the purpose that they seek to serve but must also
be propor onal to the purpose of imposing them. The courts while imposing bail
condi ons must balance the liberty of the accused and the necessity of a fair trial. While
doing so, condi ons that would result in the depriva on of rights and liber es must be
eschewed." 19. Any Advocate for the pe oner and the Oﬃcer in whose presence the pe oner
puts signatures on personal bonds shall explain all condi ons of this bail order in any
language that the pe oner understands. 20. If the pe oner ﬁnds bail condi on(s) as viola ng fundamental, human, or other
rights, or causing diﬃculty due to any situa on, then for modiﬁca on of such term(s),
the pe oner may ﬁle a reasoned applica on before this Court, and aEer taking
cognizance, even to the Court taking cognizance or the trial Court, as the case may be,
and such Court shall also be competent to modify or delete any condi on. 21. Any observa on made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
merits of the case nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 22. In return for the protec on from incarcera on, the Court believes that the accused
shall also reciprocate through desirable behavior. 8 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 29-02-2024 05:06:25 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:027988

CRM-M-8521-2024
 2024:PHHC:027988 23. There would be no need for a cer ﬁed copy of this order for furnishing bonds, and
any Advocate for the Pe oner can download this order along with case status from the
oﬃcial web page of this Court and aCest it to be a true copy. In case the aCes ng oﬃcer
wants to verify the authen city, such an oﬃcer can also verify its authen city and may
download and use the downloaded copy for aCes ng bonds. Pe&&on allowed in aforesaid terms. All pending applica ons, if any, stand disposed.