SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: "Delhivery" not delivering Amazon orders and told me to pick up myself from their goodown 18km away. 
DATE: 2024-09-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1f76ven/delhivery_not_delivering_amazon_orders_and_told/

--- POST TEXT ---

I ordered a pair of dumbells and weight plates all about 50kg and now it took 10 days first to arrive and then the these "Delhivery" guys were supposed to deliver them. But instead I got a call from the courier guy saying package is too heavy we won't deliver if u have to get the package pick it up yourself from their goodown 18km aways. Like wtf, am I now supposed to be the deliveryman. Whats the whole point of online shopping then. I do told him we wouldn't pick it up if u can't deliver today, try tommorow don't u deliver tv fridges just deliver like them. But he began saying our delivery truck is too busy, and when I tried to talk sense out of him he cut down the phone. On both tracking app it showed my package was delayed today but will be delivered in next 2 days. 
Then the next the deliveryman missed call me and even before I could pick up he cut the line. I instantly tried calling him back but I refused to pick up and then cancels the order on grounds that I opened the product and refused to accept it. Like bro I was waiting whole of Sunday for it and then today he cancels the product and returned itto seller. 
I was ordered it around half month ago and they just wasted my time. I tried calling the delivery executive mentioned on there "Delhivery" app and the he too ghosted me. I tries calling him from only then he picked up and began saying we we don't have any trucks to deliver we only delivera by bikes. This Delhivery is literally scamming Amazon and people. If u don't have means to deliver parcels why the hell did u become parcel company. And if u thought I was living in some Village I am literally living in first tier city with the main highway literally next to me like it is accessible as it gets. God knows who uses them for their parceling service they are so bad already in delivering product, hoa people trust them with their personal things. They are literally lying about their assets. And they say government institutions are bad, first uber ola taxi drivers scamming not turning on AC, cancelling rides, then these swiggy guys stealing, not delivering food and now these courier company not delivering. 
I accept that governmental institutes have their problems with corruption and things but how the hell is it in private companies. 
Do I am supposed to do the jobs of these deliveryman now picking up own parcels. Whats the point then I better go buy from local store and not only get them instantly with little to now price difference without all this bullshitry. Delhivery is literally scam.