1. Second supplementary affidavit filed on behalf of applicant is taken on record. 2. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. and perused the record. 3. The present first bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant in Case Crime No. 0212 of 2022, under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 409 IPC, Police Station Pailani, District Banda with the prayer to enlarge him on bail. 4. Learned counsel for the accused-applicant submitted that the applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the instant case due to malafide intentions. Informant is the Branch Manager of the Aryavrat Bank, Branch Paprenda. Allegations levelled as per the F.I.R. is that several complaints regarding misappropriation of funds were received from customers of the said bank. Upon inquiry by Senior Manager, it was found that the applicant, who was appointed as Bank Mitra in the Paprenda Branch of the aforesaid Aryavrat Bank, had embezzled a total amount of Rs. 14.36 Lakh of eleven customers of the said bank and more complaints were likely to be received. It is submitted that the applicant used to receive Rs. 10/- from each customer for deposit and withdrawal of money and Rs. 100/- from each customer for every deposit of Rs. 1000/-. It is further submitted that the applicant has limited right to deposit and withdraw money. It is next submitted that the alleged misappropriation of funds has been committed by the employees of the said Bank in collusion with the Branch Manager of the said Bank and applicant has only been made an scapegoat in the alleged embezzlement of funds. It is contended that some of the victims have filed Writ Petition and the amount of all the petitioners in the Writ Petition have been cleared by the Bank except petitioner No. 5 and counsel for the bank submitted that if the said petitioner also moves appropriate application, definitely the same would also be processed as per law expeditiously, hence, it is contended that it is a scam on behalf of the Bank and applicant has no role in the alleged embezzlement of money. Applicant is languishing in jail since 15.08.2022 having no criminal history to his credit and if he is granted the liberty of bail he will not misuse the same and he is ready to furnish his sufficient sureties, bonds and personal bonds. 5. On the other hand, learned AGA for the State has opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that applicant was appointed as Bank Mitra in the Paprenda Branch of the aforesaid Aryavrat Bank who was assigned the duty of cash withdrawal, cash deposit and making entries in the pass-book of the bank customers. Applicant was given a limited right to deposit and withdraw amount on behalf of the bank and, though, he received the amount from the customers of the Bank, however, he did not deposit the same in the Bank. Learned AGA for the State submitted that during investigation, sufficient evidence, including documentary evidences were collected, in which after proper investigation, charge-sheet has been submitted against the applicant. Learned AGA for the State is further drawn attention of this Court towards the witness, namely, Anand Kumar, Abhayraj, Bandra, Smt.Mohan Sokhi, Smt. Saoniya, Chunnu, Smt. Shail Kumari, Smt. Sarika Devi, Shiv Bhushan, Smt. Shyamkali, Smt. Paan Kumari, Shivnayak, Chunwa and Kajal recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and they have categorically stated that they use to deposit the amount through applicant-Bablu who received the money from them and provided them forged receipts and did not deposit the same in the bank, so the role of the applicant is clear in the present case, he had misappropriated the funds of the innocent customers of the Bank, therefore, he does not deserve any leniency and does not deserve the liberty of bail. 6. I have heard the rival submissions advanced on behalf of the parties and perused the entire material brought on record. Witnesses, namely, Anand Kumar, Abhayraj, Bandra, Smt.Mohan Sokhi, Smt. Saoniya, Chunnu, Smt. Shail Kumari, Smt. Sarika Devi, Shiv Bhushan, Smt. Shyamkali, Smt. Paan Kumari, Shivnayak, Chunwa, Kajal, Lallu Baida Prajapati, Dharampal, Chhotaku, Neha, Mool Chandra, Smt. Ritu, Smt. Bhaguriya, Smt. Gayatri, Kalicharan, Gorelal, Smt. Siriya, Ramlakhan and Ram Naresh have given their statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and they all have categorically stated that applicant has fraudulently withdrawn money from their account. It transpires that the F.I.R. was lodged by the Branch Manager of the Bank concerned on the basis of eleven complainant, however, perusal of Annexure No. 9 of first supplementary affidavit reveals that total 62 persons have filed complaint before the Commissioner Chitrakoot Dham Division Banda against the Bank Manager concerned and prayed to thoroughly inquire into the matter, therefore, it is apparent that apart from 11 complainants, funds of 62 more persons have also been misappropriate by the applicant which is still under inquiry. The misappropriated amount of few persons have been reimbursed with the order of Hon'ble High Court, however, the amount of 62 other persons so misappropriated have not been returned so far. The case is in the nature of bank scam and in the investigation, depositors stated against the applicant, charge-sheet has already been submitted against the applicant and if the applicant is granted the liberty of bail, he could tamper the evidence and witnesses using his influence, hence, at this stage, applicant does not deserve the liberty of bail. 7. Accordingly, the bail application is rejected at this stage. (Renu Agarwal, J.)
 
Order Date :- 18.12.2023
 
I.A.Siddiqui