Several times i highlighted corruption spread by ex pearson staff nitika jain. Over numerous communications unethical & malpractices done by nitika have shared with pearson and other test centers. It appears that pearson has no control over ex employees who had turn rancid. All pearson vue internal propriety information, copy right documents & confidential documents are being sold by nitika for good heap of money. This is evident from the fact that nitika after leaving pearson vue has purchased food manufacturing business for 27 lacs & have recently purchased a residential property for 3.2 crores. One can not pool this much with out getting support from internal staff & now she also has a helping hand outside. Recently nitika approved following site of chetan pawar with the help of pearson security team Spark training institute, pune She had charged 3 lacs for the above site and distribute some amount in pearson security team. Also nitika and ravi kiran is coming up with 2 new more companies named Livetech Mind q system These guys have planned to start with one center each and after that selling the sites in franchisee mode. They will be charging 4-5 lacs each site. With pearson vue they will also give psi site with the help of jignesh talajia from psi. After ravi kiran nitika has now struck new deal with chetan pawar. Following sites have applied: Aits - avasthis it training & solutions nashik Networks academy, nashik Cipet, bhubaneswar Also chetan has now structure deal with advent techno santosh shetty 15 sites under advent techno name. Location mainly mumbai, pune, hydearabad and bangalore. Today is nitika's birthday so prateek and ravi kiran are travelling to delhi to please her. Sources tell us this corrupt gang are coming with topeend tata harrier brought from pondicherry to gift her. Pearson vue till date has failed to and nitika which has increased her confidence also got her followers and more cartel members in her group. Sending you the proxy center list again: Spark training institute, pune Globenet solution Dotexe chennai Smart entry it infrastructure Majestic project chennai Innos it tech chennai Forscher technology solutions chennai Seavel technologies chennai Cloud that technologies Zeedup technologies Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)