Domestic payment frauds increased from 7.05 lakh in volume in FY 2021 to 19.94 lakh in FY 2023, according to the report presented by the Parliament Standing Committee on Finance on July 27, ‘Cybersecurity and Rising Incidence of Cyber/White Collar Crimes in India’ .

The report presents an analysis of cyber frauds in the digital payments and lending sector in India, with comments from industry representatives, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Department of Revenue and the Reserve Bank of India on the types of cyberattacks that people are commonly affected by and the issues that hinder effective investigations of these crimes.

“Majority of the payment frauds are understood to be in the nature of phishing attacks in various forms (such as vishing, phishing, Smishing, etc.), while the payment systems are ensured that they are safe, secure, sound, resilient and efficient,” the Committee observed.

Cyber frauds incidents relating to online banking, ATM transactions, credit and debit cards rose from 10395 in 2020 to 14007 in 2021 , as per data recorded by the National Crime Records Bureau. The parliamentary panel report on cybersecurity highlights the kinds of financial frauds that are prevalent in Indian payment and banking systems, and the issues that hamper investigation processes.

1. Cyber frauds pointed out by Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU-IND): The Department of Revenue elaborated on the key trends on money laundering and terrorist financing, which also include developments relating to cybercrimes. These include:

a. Money mules accounts: The Department of Revenue stated that a large number of money mule accounts, opened via Video Customer Identification Process (V-CIP) based KYC procedure, are being used to receive proceeds of cyber frauds, which were withdrawn as cash through ATMs. A money mule is an individual who is being duped by fraudsters to launder their illegal or stolen money through their bank account. Due diligence exercises carried out by banks revealed that most of the account holders were either not reachable or were unaware of transactions being carried out via their accounts.

b. Illegal apps on Google Play Store: The Revenue Department revealed that several illegal applications available for download from Google Play Store are in fact created to “lure gullible investors to invest money in the application”. These apps promise huge returns to investors by investing their money into crypto currency mining and trading, forex trading, etc. “In some cases, the entities fled with investors’ money and deleted the application, as per complaints received by various Indian law enforcement agencies,” the report noted.

c. Suspicious transactions linked to gaming websites: The report shows that suspicious transactions of multiple UPI IDs linked to certain gaming websites indicated that individuals were being duped through “false inducements”. A network of foreign-registered websites (in Curacao, Malta, Cyprus, etc.) linked to Indian bank accounts is found to be engaged in fraudulent means of collecting money. These funds were not distributed to the investors or the players but were diverted to accounts of individuals or entities based abroad by investing the said money in cryptocurrency. Notably, KYC documents of bank accounts linked to the gaming websites did not mention linkages with any gaming activities. Instead, most of them are linked to the trading of grocery items, etc.

d. Funding through cryptocurrency: Cryptocurrency is being used to fund terrorist suspects, as per the report. In a recent act of terrorism, the main accused received cryptocurrency in his wallet account with an Indian cryptocurrency exchange from multiple wallets held with a foreign cryptocurrency exchange. “Cryptocurrency was transferred to his account from other accounts, and he merely sold it in the exchange and redeemed the money in his bank account and another mule account controlled by him,” the Department explained.

2. Number of impacted costumers: A representative from National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) stated that the average number of customers impacted by cyber frauds is 2,000 per month. The representative stated that in rural areas, social engineering coupled with involvement of Business Correspondents or BCs of the banks lead to most of these frauds, wherein people are influenced to participate in transactions using deceptive methods.

3. Social engineering frauds and Ponzi schemes: In a meeting held in 2022, Razorpay deposed in front of the Committee that social engineering, phishing, identity theft, and white-collar frauds like Ponzi schemes and fraudulent apps are more prevalent in India.

“We notice almost 400 to 500 fraudulent apps that try to onboard themselves on our platform every month. We block them, but that does not stop these apps. They go to any other payment provider and banking system and get themselves onboarded and start conducting their fraud. Today, there is no way for us to notify any Department or any Body regarding the fraudulent app,” a Razorpay representative explained.

PhonePay listed three types of cyber frauds commonly witnessed in India. First, the report highlights SIM cloning, through which the perpetrator takes over an individual’s device or tries to get malicious apps installed on the victim’s phone and takes over their account. The second one can be categorised as phishing, which includes false websites, fake merchant sites, etc. The third one involves convincing customers to send payments to fraudsters by entering their credentials as they would do for normal transactions.

“These could be like the Ponzi schemes where they are promised some sort of job and they have to pay some sort of registration fee to a particular phone number or UPI VPA (Virtual Payment Address) or even a bank account and that gets transferred through different bank accounts and finally, it gets removed or it could be about saying that I am representing somebody else,” PhonePay representative explained.

4. On digital lending applications: Indian Banks Association noted in the report, “There are increasing instances of illegal Loan Apps offering loans/micro credits, especially to people from low-income groups at exorbitantly high interest rates, and predatory recovery practices. RBI took several measures to tackle the problem.”

5. Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on digital loan apps: The MHA informed that digital loan apps related frauds decreased from 26,844 in the year 2022 to 9826 in the year 2023. “There is a need on parts of the banks and financial institutions to use this to plug the gaps in their KYC mechanisms and confirm to the prescribed fraud prevention and AML (Anti-Money Laundering) requirements,” the ministry noted. The ministry also stated that malicious apps on Google Play Store are regularly reported to MeitY (Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology) and Google for blocking or removal. It added that adherence to RBI’s guidelines for digital lending needs to be ensured.

6. Issues related to investigation: Razorpay pointed out the problems that hamper cybercrime investigation procedures. These issues include delays in commencing the investigation, involvement of multiple or different law enforcement agencies, and lack of knowledge about the modus-operandi of the fraudsters and the operations of the digital payment systems, among others.

“Having same sort of a centralized agency, which is responsible for investigating these frauds, which is trained in these matters, especially the widespread frauds, who are deeply trained in these matters, who can pick up the report that come from various different law enforcement agency and do a single investigation will be helpful,” Razorpay representative stated.

7. Regulatory gaps in cybersecurity: RBI identifies two important regulatory gaps in cybersecurity in the report. The first includes RBI’s limited control over involvement of third-party service providers and greater reliance of banks on such service providers, which also include Big Tech companies at times. The RBI representative stated that they have identified the top 25 systemically important third-party service providers and have started engaging with them directly to see how they can be regulated. They also added that many of countries’ central banks are armed with statutory powers to regulate third-party service providers, including “big tech and fin tech” to the extent they provide services to banks.

The second gap involves regulation of cooperative banks and non-banking finance companies. “Our reach over them is not as much as in the case of banks. So, while banks have attained a certain level of cyber security maturity, that is not the case with these cooperative banks and the NBFCs and we have seen some types of attacks for example, ransomware attack,” the representative explained.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event