On May 26, the United States Southern District Court of New York issued a show cause notice to attorneys Peter LoDuca and Steven A. Schwartz, and the law firm they work for—Levidow, Levidow & Oberman, P.C.—because of the fake AI-generated court cases received as a defense for the Robert Mata v Avianca Airline Inc case it is representing right now. The attorneys and their law firm have to show cause on June 8 and justify why sanctions shouldn’t be imposed against them under Rule 11(b)(2) & (c), Fed. R. Civ. P., (2) 28 U.S.C. § 1927 (which requires attorneys to examine the merits of a claim before filing it with the court), and the citation of fraudulent cases. While the show cause notice has been issued for LoDuca, Schwartz, and the firm, the one responsible for adding fake court cases was Schwartz. Schwartz says that LoDuca neither had a role in the research nor did he have knowledge of how the research was conducted.

The fact that the AI-generated court cases seemed believable enough for Schwartz to cite them tells us about the serious concerns surrounding generative AI’s ability to produce misinformation/disinformation. While the fake cases were eventually discovered, it is important to note that the process of fact-checking these cases eats into the time a case is being heard for. As the legal maxim “justice delayed is justice denied” implies, in serious cases, time spent on fact-checking could render the resolution ineffective.

The issue of AI generating legal misinformation was even discussed earlier this month when Gary Marcus, a professor at New York University, shared how AI can be used to generate fake evidence when serving as a witness during the hearing conducted by the U.S. Senate subcommittee on privacy, judiciary, and law. With this story coming to light soon after, one must wonder how damaging ChatGPT and other AI models would be for courts across the world.

In 2022, Robert Mata filed a case against Avianca Airline seeking damages for the personal injuries he sustained on board an Avianca flight in 2019. His lawyers produced a ten-page brief (according to the New York Times) to support the case where they cited half a dozen court cases with relevant court decisions.

Avianca Airline’s legal counsel reviewed this brief and wrote to the Judge P. Kevin Castel (who was overseeing the case) stating that many of the cases listed in the brief were hard to locate and verify. The reason they proved to be so hard to verify was that they weren’t real. Steven A. Schwartz, the lawyer who had prepared the brief submitted an affidavit saying that he used ChatGPT to supplement his legal research. He stated that the following court cases used in the brief were non-existent:

Schwartz said that ChatGPT provided legal sources and citations for all of these cases. He said that he had never used the AI tool for legal research before and thus didn’t know that the content could be false. He did, however, take full responsibility for the fact that he didn’t verify the sources provided by ChatGPT.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event