The instant information filed on 30.05.2011 under section 19(1)(a) of the Competition
Act 2007 (Act), having been taken on record by the Commission relates to
allegations of anti-competitive agreements entered into by the OPs as also abuse of
dominant position by them, in violation of various provisions of the Act. Information 1. As submitted by the Informant, OP1 is an American multinational corporation
 that designs and markets consumer electronics, computer software and
 personal computers, best known for hardware products like Macintosh line of
 computers, iPod, iPhone and iPad. OP2 is the Indian subsidiary of OP1
 through which it markets its products in India. OP3 and OP4 are leading
 mobile service providers in India, jointly having more than 30 crore Indian
 subscribers that account for almost 52% market share in the GSM market. 2. The Informant has categorically claimed that the information is in regard to a
 particular variant of iPhone - iPhone 3G/3GS, manufactured by OP1. It has
 been submitted by the Informant that iPhone is a line of internet and
 multimedia enabled smart phone that functions as video camera, camera
 phone, portable media player, internet client with email and web-browsing
 facilities and is capable of sending texts and receiving voicemail. Further,
 more than 350,000 approved third-party as well as Apple application
 software, having diverse functionalities including games, reference, GPS
 navigation, social networking, security and advertising for television shows,
 films and celebrities, can be downloaded from the 'App Store' to the iPhone.
 The Informant has claimed that during the fiscal 2010, worldwide sale of
 iPhone was 73.5 million. The Informant has further averred, on account of its
 unique features, iPhones cannot be substituted by any other smartphones
 available in the market. 3. According to the Informant, OP1 and OP2 entered into some secret exclusive
 contracts / agreements with OP3 and OP4 for sale of iPhone in India, even
 prior to its launch; as a result of which OP3 and OP4 got exclusive selling
 rights for undisclosed number of years. The iPhones sold by OP3 and OP4
 were compulsorily locked, thereby meaning that the handset purchased from
 either of them shall work only on their respective networks and none other. 4. The Informant has further averred that OP3, in order to maximize its profit,
 tweaked its internet services in such a manner that they were no longer
 usable on iPhones and introduced iPhone-specific plans. Furthermore, the
 iPhone-specific internet plans of OP3 and OP4 were costly than their normal
 internet plans, thus compelling not only existing customers to pay extra for
 using internet on their iPhone but also prospective iPhone purchasers to
 leave their respective network providers and to compulsorily opt for expensive
 mobile telephony services. 5. It has also been submitted that OP1 and OP2 permit iPhone users only those
 applications on their iPhones that have been approved by them and available
 through their own online application store namely 'App Store'. If a purchaser
 of iPhone unlocks it to use the network service of other cellular service
 provider, or 'jailbreaks' it to use any unapproved third party applications, the
 purchaser loses all warranties on the handset. Further, no other third party
 applications can be run on iPhone unless the same has been approved by
 Apple. If, however, operating system of jailbroken iPhone is upgraded, the
 iPhone gets re-locked and all third party applications are deleted by the
 servers of OP1 and OP2 permanently. Informant has further alleged that OP
 3 & 4 refuse to accept any iPhone for repairs at their authorized service
 centers if the same is not purchased from them. Allegation 6. For the purposes of allegation pertaining to abuse of dominance (AoD), the
 Informant has claimed that OP1 enjoys a dominant position in the relevant
 market for the smartphones both in India as well as internationally, iPhone
 being largest selling smartphone in the world. The Informant has also averred 2 that OP3 and OP4 jointly enjoy dominant position in the relevant market for
 GSM mobile telephony services in India, as they have almost 52% market
 share therein. 7. The Informant has submitted that OP3 and OP4 have abused their dominant
 position by imposing unfair conditions on the purchasers of Apple iPhones by
 offering expensive subscription services and compulsorily locking the
 handsets to their respective networks and by threatening to void the warranty
 terms of such iPhones that have been unlocked and/or jailbroken by the users
 in order to use the same on the networks of their GSM competitors or to use
 unapproved third party applications on their iPhones. Also, OP3 and OP4
 have used their dominant position in the GSM market to enter and control the
 iPhone market in India. 8. It has further been submitted that OP1 and OP2 have also abused their
 dominant position by imposing discriminatory conditions on such persons who
 have purchased their Apple iPhones from a source other than OP3 and OP4
 by: 9. On the basis of above alleged contraventions, the Informant has suggested
 violation of Section 4(2)(a), (b), (c), (d) & (e) of the Act by the OPs. The
 Informant has also suggested violation of Section (3) of the Act by the OPs in
 as much as they have entered into anti-competitive agreement to limit and/or
 control the market for iPhone in India by creating entry barriers for other GSM
 players in India, thus having appreciable adverse effect on competition in the
 relevant market. Prima facie view of the Commission 10. The matter was considered in several meetings of the Commission. On the
 basis of written as well as oral submission by the Informant and information 3 available in the public domain, the Commission was of prima facie view that
 there existed a case for DG to investigate in the matter and accordingly, vide
 its Order dated 30.08.2011, directed the Director General to cause an
 investigation under Section 26 (1) of the Act and submit a report thereon. DG Investigation Report 11. Given the nature of allegations as highlighted by the Informant, DG has
 identified following concerns in the present case to carry forward the
 investigation: 12. DG has submitted that during the course of investigation, some of the
 opposite parties have raised certain issues in the nature of preliminary
 objections, which are as follows: xiv. The iPhone agreement is no longer in existence and therefore, the
 investigation in so far as Vodafone is concerned is not going to lead to
 any plausible conclusion nor can any relief be granted against
 Vodafone, assuming but without admitting, that the alleged conduct is
 considered to be anticompetitive. Therefore, there is no continuing
 conduct of the alleged infringement. xv. iPhones are easily available in the open market and without any
 network locking. More importantly even the iPhones bought through
 Vodafone channels were unlocked as and when a request was made
 after following the due process. Further the TRAI's MNP regulations
 allow a customer to move from one service provider to another freely
 and consequently, the same customer can unlock his phone without
 any hassle. These facts clearly indicate that the allegations in the
 information are mere speculations and should be dismissed outright. xvi. The investigation is limited to the iPhone Agreement and tariffs
 associated with it and consequently, any investigation into the 3G
 licenses clearly goes beyond of the Commission. iPhone 3G or iPhone
 3GS has nothing to do with the telecom license, far less a 3G license,
 of Vodafone. xvii. There are no merits to the allegations raised by the informant. It is a
 well known fact that the Indian Telecom sector is highly competitive
 with a large number of service providers fiercely competing for market
 presence. As a result, the charges for the usage of telecom services in
 India are one of the lowest in the world. Further, the market for mobile
 phone in India is also highly competitive, dynamic and continues to
 see a large number of new entrants, which have displaced erstwhile
 stalwart players in the market. xviii. iPhone agreement expired much earlier than the date of the Prima
 Facie Order and even the Information as a result of which there is no
 subsisting agreement between Vodafone and Apple in relation to
 distribution of iPhones in India. Any sale of iPhones through Vodafone
 channels (or its affiliated company) after the expiry of the agreement
 was purely a commercial decision to clear the existing unsold
 inventory. Further, even during the continuance of the iPhone
 agreement and even as of today, as will be demonstrated hereafter,
 both Vodafone and Apple had and have small shares of the potential
 relevant markets for provision of cellular telecom network services and
 smartphone, respectively, that it could not possibly have an adverse
 effect on competition, much less, an appreciable adverse effect in
 India in terms of the competition Act. xix. In any case, the informant has failed to define the precise nature and
 scope of the relevant market(s) before proceeding to make allegations
 of an infringement of sections 3(3)(b) and 4 of the Competition Act. xx. Vodafone is a service provider of voice and data services, including
 internet connectivity to its customers and hence they do not control or
 restrict its customers from downloading applications which may or
 may not be authorized by Apple. xxi. After the expiration of the iPhone agreement, there can not even be
 any continuing conduct by Vodafone pursuant to any infringing
 agreement as sought to be alleged by the informant. xxii. The Commission may not have the jurisdiction to examine the issues
 which clearly fall within the ambit of the TRAI especially in relation to
 the tariffs set for consumers. The above issues were examined by the DG. Those concerning jurisdiction of CCI
was taken up separately while objections pertaining to contraventions were handled
as part of the investigation on allegation. Jurisdiction of CCI 13. Regarding the jurisdiction of CCI contested by Airtel, DG has submitted that
 notwithstanding the fact that activities of Cellular Service Providers in India
 are regulated by a Sectoral Regulator, any competition issues arising out of
 the activities and practices of these entities would fall within the ambit of the
 provisions of the Competition Act under section 62 of the Act. Accordingly,
 DG has submitted that there is no basis for contention of the opposite party
 regarding jurisdiction of CCI. Date of agreement prior to the enactment 14. On the issue of applicability of the Act to events prior to its notification, DG
 has referred to the decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in W.P. No.
 1785/ 200, Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. v. Competition Commission of India
 decided on 31.03.2010. In this decision, it was held that though the Act is not
 retrospective, it would cover all agreements covered by the Act though
 entered into prior to the commencement of the Act but sought to be acted
 upon now i.e. if the effect of the agreement continues even after 20.5.2009.
 DG has submitted that even though in the instant case the alleged anti-
 competitive Arrangement / agreement was started before coming into force of sections 3 and 4, the Commission has the jurisdiction to look into such
 conduct as it continued even after the enforcement of relevant provisions of
 the Act. Discontinuance of certain practices 15. On the argument that certain practices under examination have since been
 discontinued and as such have become irrelevant, and no longer actionable,
 DG has submitted that despite the subsequent developments, the period
 during which the alleged practices continued would need to be examined for
 infringements, if any, in terms of the Act and have thus been investigated. Credentials of the Informant 16. On the objection of the opposite parties that the Informant had not purchased
 the iPhone from them in India and their contention that as such there is no
 cause for examining his allegation, DG has submitted that the Informant did
 use the iPhone in India and availed the cellular services of the providers in
 India. Further, DG has submitted that there is no mandatory requirement for
 the informant to be a directly affected party. Having dealt with the preliminary issues, the DG, then, proceeded to investigate the
allegations of anti-competitive conduct of the opposite parties. Investigation of Section 3 violation 17. As submitted by DG, Apple iPhone 3G and 3GS were launched in India in
 August 2008 and March 2010, respectively. Further, since Apple India did not
 own or operate retail stores in India, its marketing activities for iPhones were
 done by Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) or through Authorized Premium
 Resellers (APRs) through non-exclusive distribution agreements with tenure
 of two to three years. On the basis of data submitted by Apple India, DG has
 quoted volume-wise sales of iPhones 3G/3GS made by MNOs and
 authorized re-sellers during FY 2008-09, FY 2009-10 and FY 2010-11 as
 41590, 23080 and 16180, respectively. Against this background, DG
 investigated section 3 violations by the OPs. Exclusive agreement of undisclosed duration 18. Apple entered into distribution arrangement with Airtel on 17.03.2008 and with
 Vodafone on 16.04.2008. DG has found that upon expiration, the agreement
 entered by Vodafone was not renewed, while agreement with Airtel was
 renewed with certain amendments. An agreement with Aircel was entered by
 Apple on 11.03.2011. DG has also submitted that Apple had approached
 other network operators like Reliance Communications, Idea Cellular, Tata
 DoCoMo to enter into a distribution agreement for selling iPhone but it did not
 materialize. It has also been submitted by DG that the agreement entered by
 Apple in India with various MNOs were for a specified period of two-three
 years at a given point of time. In view of the foregoing, DG has concluded that
 the agreement of Apple India and Apple Inc with Airtel and Vodafone for
 distribution and sale of 3G and 3GS models of iPhones was neither exclusive 10 nor for very long / undisclosed duration. Accordingly, these agreements do
 not breach provisions of Section 3(4)(c) of the Act. Tie-in arrangement 19. DG has found that iPhones sold in India were in a locked state. While Apple
 contended that locked iPhones were supplied based on specific orders placed
 by Airtel and Vodafone, the latter have submitted that there was no such
 option available to them in terms of the arrangement and that they were to
 purchase only locked iPhones. In view of the lock-in, the purchaser of an
 iPhone was necessarily required to subscribe to the cellular service of the
 MNO through whom it was bought. DG has found this arrangement between
 Apple, Airtel and Vodafone to be in the nature of tie-in arrangement as
 specified under Section 3(4) of the Act. Appreciable adverse effect on competition 20. Having established that there was an agreement between Apple and Airtel /
 Vodafone for sale of locked iPhones in India, DG then proceeded to
 investigate whether there was any appreciable adverse effect on competition
 of the aforesaid tie-in arrangement in the GSM cellular service market, in
 terms of the provisions of Section 19(3) of the Act. DG is of the view that 'the
 tie-in arrangement, to some extent, did have an adverse implication on the
 purchaser of iPhones in terms of their ability to choose and switch between
 various cellular service providers and data plans'. To that extent, DG is of the
 view that there has been denial of business opportunities to other cellular
 service providers. Quoting from the IDC report on the market share for
 smartphone in India, DG has submitted that Apple had a market share of
 1.5% in the year 2008; less than 1% in 2009 and 2010 and 2.4% in 2011.
 Additionally, DG has submitted that at the time of launch of iPhone in India,
 there were about 250 million GSM mobile subscribers which subsequently
 rose to about 600 million in the year 2011. Using this data, DG has concluded
 that the sale of 3G and 3GS iPhones of Apple in India since its launch in 2008
 till 2011 was small in absolute terms as well as in terms of percentage of the
 overall sale of smartphones of various brands and that the corresponding
 number of subscribers using iPhone to the total number of GSM subscribers
 is miniscule. Thus, DG has concluded that the tie-in arrangement would not
 have materially and adversely impacted the competition by creating any entry
 barrier for new entrants; driving existing competitors out of the market;
 foreclosure of competition by hindering entry into the market. Accordingly, DG
 has held that there is no appreciable adverse effect of the tie-in arrangement
 of Apple with Airtel and Vodafone on competition in the GSM cellular service
 market in terms of Section 19(3) of the Act. Internet Plans 21. DG has observed that in terms of the agreements, both Airtel and Vodafone
 were required to offer iPhone specific internet plans on the same or better 11 terms than those offered to other customers. DG has stated that analysis of
 various internet plans offered by OP3 and OP4 did not reveal any indication
 of iPhone specific internet plans of Airtel being more expensive than other
 data plans. As regards Vodafone, DG has found that on account of the
 technical specifications stipulated in APN settings, only iPhone specific plans
 of Vodafone could have been used on iPhones till September 2010. Third party downloads 22. As regards allegations pertaining to restrictions imposed by Apple for
 downloading third party applications, DG has submitted that investigation did
 not reveal any evidence to indicate anti-competitive effect of the practice of
 Apple allowing downloading of those applications which are based on its
 operating system. In this context, DG has observed that while there are other
 alternate online application stores such as Google play etc. from where applications can be downloaded on other handsets, most of the application stores undertake some monitoring to deal with threats from malware, virus
 etc. Hence DG did not consider it appropriate to make a case in this regard. Investigation of Section 4 violation 23. According to DG, the issues under examination relate both to sale of locked
 iPhone with cellular services and data plans for using these handsets, the
 relevant market(s) have to be delineated. 24. Mobile services can be offered through two competing technologies and that
 SIM cards of each of these cellular services are compatible only with those
 handsets which deploy their respective technology. According to DG, there is
 no substitutability between GSM and CDMA cellular services. for any handset
 and only one of these cellular services can be used depending on whether
 the handset is CDMA or GSM compatible. Since iPhones are based on GSM
 technology, for the purpose of present investigation, DG has considered only
 GSM cellular services as relevant. 25. Regarding the handset market, DG has submitted that on account of certain
 distinguishing features / characteristics, handsets can be broadly classified as
 smart phones and feature phones. While acknowledging that iPhone is a
 unique product, DG has pointed out that there are certain smart phones
 offered by other brands such as Nokia, Blackberry, Samsung that have
 advanced features and which could be considered as substitutes for the
 iPhone. Further, in case of technologically driven products and industries
 characterized by rapid innovation, the DG holds the view that availability of
 substitutable products has to be assessed over a period of time rather than at
 a given point of time. 26. In line of above arguments, DG has identified two distinct relevant markets in
 terms of the provisions of the Act namely; (i) relevant market for smart phones 12 in India and (ii) relevant market for GSM cellular services in India. Referring to
 the IDC Smartphone Report, according to which iPhone had a market share
 of less than 3% during 2008-11 in terms of volume and less than 6% in terms
 of value during the same period, DG is of the view that market share of Apple
 iPhones was low both in terms of value and volume. Further, DG has
 submitted that there are several other brands of smartphones having market
 share greater than Apple iPhone. On this ground, DG has submitted that
 Apple could not be said to be in a dominant position. Further, the investigation
 also took into account dynamic nature of smart phones characterized by rapid
 innovation and replication which, according to DG, ensured robust
 competition on an ongoing basis. Considering these aspects, investigation did
 not find Apple to be dominant entity, possessing market power in the relevant
 market of smart phones in India. 27. As regards cellular service market, the GSM cellular services market is
 fragmented and there are several active cellular service providers. DG did not
 find either Airtel or Vodafone to be dominant in the relevant market of GSM
 cellular services. Consequently, no further examination was done by the DG
 on the alleged abusive conduct of Apple, Airtel and Vodafone. Concluding Remarks: DG Report 28. Based on above findings, DG has concluded that Apple did not enter into any
 exclusive agreement with Airtel and Vodafone for sale and distribution of
 iPhones in India. By selling locked iPhones to the network of the distributing
 MNO, Apple entered into tie-in arrangement with Airtel and Vodafone in terms Section 3(4)(a) of the Act. However, analysis of various data and facts
 gathered during the investigation did not reveal any appreciable adverse
 effect on competition in the cellular service market in India, in terms of Section 19(3) of the Act. Investigation did not reveal any infringement on
 account of practices regarding use of only authorized applications on
 iPhones. Hence, no case for violation of Section 3 of the Act has been made.
 Since, Apple has not found to be dominant in the relevant market of
 smartphones in India and also neither Airtel nor Vodafone are found to be
 dominant in the relevant market of GSM cellular service providers in India,
 therefore, no case has been made out against them for infringement of Section 4 of the Act. Analysis of the Commission 29. The Commission examined the DG's investigation report and also took
 cognizance of the informant's submission / objections to the DG Report. The
 contention of the informant that 'the DG did not analyze relevant market and
 dominance of the opposite parties properly thereon' shall be kept in mind
 while analyzing the allegations pertaining to Section 3 and Section 4 of the
 Act. Jurisdictional Issues 30. Two major jurisdictional issues were raised by the opposite parties viz; a)
 jurisdiction of CCI in this case as it pertains to the jurisdiction of TRAI; b) the
 applicability of the Act as the case pertains to pre-May 2009. Both these
 issues were addressed by the DG. The Commission takes note of the juridical
 issues raised by some of the opposite parties and is in agreement with the
 view taken by the DG in this regard, as brought out earlier in this Order and
 therefore settles the issues raised by them. Competition Issues 31. The allegations in the present case relate to Section 3 on the anti-competitive
 agreements and to Section 4 on abuse of dominant position of the opposite
 parties. The specific competition issues that arise from these allegations are: 32. The case as such has two dimensions to it as can be seen from the
 informant's allegation of contravention of Section 3 and Section 4. As
 submitted by DG, Apple iPhone 3G and 3GS were launched in India in
 August 2008 and March 2010, respectively. Apple India did not own or
 operate retail stores in India, but preferred to distribute its handsets and
 related marketing activities through two channels Mobile Network Operators
 (MNOs) and Authorized Premium Resellers (APRs) by way of non-exclusive
 distribution agreements with tenure of two to three years. Of significance is
 that the MNOs are also service providers. The duality of the roles of MNOs
 permits examination of the contravention of the Act under Sections 3 and 4. Section 3 arises from the agreements between Apple and its distributors and
 fall within the ambit of vertical restraints on competition elucidated in Section
 3(4) of the Act. Contraventions of Section 4 arise from the dominance of the 14 two sets of players' viz., the iPhone manufacturer (Apple) and service
 providers (Airtel and Vodafone) in their respective markets. 33. We shall first examine the contraventions arising from abuse of dominant
 position. The steps required for assessing contravention of the Act are: 34. Given the nature of allegations leveled by the Informant and subsequent
 investigation conducted by the DG thereon, it would be appropriate at the
 outset to understand the dynamics of cellular phones and their interaction
 with cellular network services. Market Dynamics 35. With the advent of mobile telephony, faster and reliable modes of
 communication have become a reality. With passage of time and with infusion
 of technology, the mobile handset got transformed from a simple
 communicating devise to becoming a platform for undertaking activities like e-
 commerce, m-banking, entertainment, m-health etc. 36. In the context of mobile telephony, two distinct entities - the mobile network
 operators and handset manufacturers create the communication channel
 wherein the former provides the service and latter sells the hardware to
 harness the benefits of the service provider. A mobile handset is a
 complementary product to mobile network service, thereby meaning that
 unless a mobile handset user has the access to a mobile network services,
 he would not be in a position to exploit the full utility of the handset. It is
 observed that, generally, as a part of complementary marketing strategy,
 handset makers and mobile service providers, although, distinct entities often
 offer bundled products / services. It has been observed that with the approval
 of the sector regulator, there have been instances of offering bundled
 services, wherein mobile service providers offer handsets to their customers
 that may be locked to their network for a certain time period. 37. As per the data provided by the DG, the Commission has noted the GSM
 subscriber base in India has shown a phenomenal growth - it stood at
 25,82,35,642 in 2008 and has grown to 63,96,37,109 in 2011, a growth of
 nearly 150%. Taking the GSM subscriber base to be the proxy for the
 handset market (as every subscriber requires a handset to use mobile
 services), the story of handset sales in India is no different. It is a resilient
 market with presence of more than 20 companies competing in a space which
 is growing by about 15%, as per the data pertaining to H1 2012 as per a 15 market research group, CMR (http://cmrindia.com/india-mobile-handset-
 shipments-cross-100-million-units-in-the-first-six-months-of-2012/). Another
 Report of CMR 'India Mobile Handsets Market Review, 2Q 2012, September
 2012', during H1 2012 (January-June 2012), total India shipments of mobile
 handsets was recorded at 102.43 million units. In India, handsets are
 available from plethora of manufacturers in practically every price range -
 from few hundred rupees to about half a lakh rupees. 38. Handsets can be primarily characterized as being one of the three: (i) basic
 phones; (ii) feature phones and (iii) smart-phones. While the basic phone is
 equipped for call and text messaging services, the other two have more
 advances features.There is no industry standard definition of a smartphone,
 but rather a spectrum of functionalities that defines a particular brand of
 smartphone. A significant difference between smart-phones and feature
 phones is that the advanced application programming interfaces (APIs) on
 smart-phones for running third party applications can allow those applications
 to have better integration with the phone's operating system and hardware. In
 comparison, feature phones more commonly run on proprietary firmware, with
 third-party software support through platforms such as Java ME or BREW.
 Further categorization on the basis of operating system, hardware
 configuration, other functionality, 2G/3G/4G etc is also possible to distinguish
 a particular handset. Presumably, price of the mobile handsets increases
 progressively and discreetly with the inclusion of additional functionalities /
 features. 39. The present case deals with the smartphones, which are at the highest end of
 mobile handsets. In addition to mobile phone functionality, many modern
 smartphones typically also serve as portable media player and camera phone
 with high-resolution touch-screen, web browsers that can access and properly
 display standard web pages rather than only mobile-optimized sites, GPS
 navigation, Wi-Fi and mobile broadband access. Presently, smartphones are
 manufactured by various competing companies such as Apple, Samsung,
 Nokia, LG, HTC, Micromax, Sony etc. It is notable that each manufacturer
 has several variants of smartphones, available in different price-bands. In this dynamic scenario, we now proceed to examine the case from the lens of
competition. Relevant Market 40. Section 2 (r) , (s) and (t) of the Act define the relevant market. Further, Section
 19(5) , (6) and (7) of the Act gives the guidelines for determining relevant
 market. 41. The Informant has averred that features offered on iPhone are exclusive only
 to it, because of which an iPhone cannot be substituted by any other
 smartphone available in the market. While saying so, we infer that the 16 Informant is referring to the relevant market as consisting of Apple
 iPhones.On the other hand, while defining relevant market, DG has held that
 "in case of technologically driven products and industries characterized by
 rapid innovation the availability of substitutable products has to be assessed
 over a period of time (few months or year/s) rather than at a given point of
 time". 42. As stated earlier, DG has made a distinction between a smartphone and a
 normal phone in as much as the former is capable of running larger menu of
 third party application. While acknowledging the fact that iPhone offers certain
 distinguishing features such as multi-touch screen-pad replacing the
 traditional physical keypads, light detecting and proximity censors, DG has
 held that it belongs to the category of smartphones, competing with other
 smartphones offered by other companies. 43. Furthermore, in view of the allegations on the service providers, DG has
 considered it appropriate to include a second relevant market in the present
 case - that of mobile network service. On the cellular network services
 market, DG has observed that the same can be classified under two heads
 namely GSM and CDMA, based on the underlying technology. Further, SIM
 cards of each of these cellular services are compatible only with those
 handsets which deploy their respective technology. On account of such
 technological differences, DG has submitted that there is no substitutability
 between GSM and CDMA cellular services. It has also been submitted by the
 DG that iPhones (in India) are based on GSM technology. The DG has found
 that the cellular network of most of the GSM cellular service providers in India
 at the time of launch of iPhones was technologically compatible for use of
 iPhones. Hence unless the iPhones were specifically locked to a particular
 GSM network, the users could have used the network of any of the existing
 cellular service providers in India. 44. Taking into consideration the provisions of the Act and the issues under
 investigation relating to the sale of the locked iPhone and cellular services
 and data plans for using these handsets, two separate relevant markets have
 been identified by the DG as following: 45. In terms of the provisions of the Act, relevant market has to be defined in
 terms of product-substitutability from demand perspective. It is worth noting
 that relevant market has two dimensions - product and geography. The DG
 has delineated two distinct relevant markets in the present case. The
 Commission will examine the aspect of two markets and opine on the
 delineation of the two markets in subsequent paragraphs. Concerns of the
 informant on the definition of the relevant market raised in his oral response
 to the DG's Report will be addressed in the subsequent paragraphs. A. Mobile Telephony Market 46. From the public documents available on the internet as also from the
 Information and the DG Report, it is apparent that products of Apple have
 been defying the conventional norms - they come with innovative features
 that offer qualitative leap over their rivals. No doubt, some people might have
 a preference for Apple products like iPhone but to qualify it as a niche
 segment, it is required that no other competing products offer similar products
 and that the target customers perceive it as being the 'only' product in the
 market. If it were so then, the relevant market would have been that of
 iPhones. The Commission finds it difficult to define the relevant market as just
 consisting of iPhones. Such single-brand markets are rarely tenable. Relevant
 markets generally cannot be limited to a singlemanufacturer's products.The
 Commission views reasonable interchangability between iPhones and other
 smartphones. iPhone is a part of bigger segment of mobile handset i.e. the
 smartphone market. Comparisons of features and prices of different
 smartphones are done and referred to that includes iPhone along with other
 smartphones. Apparently, Apple views Samsung, Nokia, Blackberry etc as its
 competitor in the smartphone market in India and similarly other smartphone
 manufacturers also offer their products in direct competition with iPhones. 47. In view of the above discussion and in the absence of any specific finding that
 Apple iPhone constitutes a distinct market; the Commission has reasons to
 believe that the true relevant market is the market of smartphones in India, in
 line with the approach and reasoning of the DG. B. Cellular Telecom Services Market 48. There are two competing technologies that offer commercial mobile telephony - (i) GSM and (ii) CDMA. The handset to be used for availing service from
 any of these cannot be used to avail the service from other. Even from the
 supply side, the two are not substitutable in as much as each require set of
 equipments that are not compatible with other. In our analysis, since iPhone
 is offered only for GSM module in India and that specific allegation has been
 brought against two GSM service providers, the Commission shall limit its
 analysis to the GSM service market. 49. The mobile network service in India is divided into distinct telecom circles,
 also known as licensing areas, with majority of the circle having 6-7
 operators. It is important to take note of the fact that each telecom circle has
 different valuation and accordingly the license fee varies across each circle.
 Further, a mobile service operator can operate only in the license area for
 which license has been granted. From a consumer's perspective, calling a
 subscriber within a telecom circle, irrespective of physical distance between
 the two, is treated as local call and any call terminating in other license area is
 treated as long-distance (STD) call. There is substitutability of availing mobile
 network services to the extent that consumers have a choice of availing
 services from competing service providers that have been given license in a 18 particular license area. Thus, from the point of view of both - mobile service
 operators and mobile service subscribers, one license area is distinct from
 another. 50. It is important to note that the agreement between Apple and Vodafone /
 Airtel to sell locked phones in India did not envisage locking the iPhone to a
 particular license area. Rather, it is apparent that locking was to a particular
 carrier irrespective of the service area in which they were bought in, thereby
 meaning that, as an example, iPhone purchased from Airtel could be made
 functional by inserting Airtel SIM in any service area in which Airtel was
 licensed to offer mobile services. 51. In view of the above discussion and in consonance with the definition of
 relevant market in respect of cellular telecom services market as proposed by
 the DG, the Commission opines that the relevant market is the market for
 GSM mobile services in India. 52. To sum, the two relevant markets identified for the purpose of present case
 are: 53. Dominant position has been defined under Explanation to Sec 4 as

 "...position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market, in
 India, which enables it to-- (i) operate independently of competitive forces prevailing in the
 relevant market; or (ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in its
 favour. Section 19(4) of the Act lists guiding conditions under which an enterprise may be
 viewed as having a dominant position. 54. The Informant has submitted that Apple is the largest selling smartphone
 worldwide. It has also submitted that by the end of fiscal year 2010, a total of
 73.5 million iPhones have been sold. Hence, OP1 enjoys dominant position in
 the smartphone market worldwide including India where it enjoys such a
 position through OP2. 55. Quoting the IDC Smartphone Market Share for India (2008-2011) and other
 reports cited by DG in its investigation report, DG has observed that in terms
 of volume, Apple India had a share between the ranges of 1%-3% in the
 smart-phone market during the period 2008-11 in India. The DG, then,
 proceeded further and analyzed the other factors to be considered for 19 determining dominance of an enterprise and found that OP1 and OP2 are not
 in a dominant position in the relevant market of smart-phones in India. View of the Commission 56. There are two issues that need to be highlighted before commenting on the
 dominant position of the opposite parties. Firstly, the business model /
 strategy of Apple in India need to be emphasized. At the time of launch of
 iPhones in India, Apple did not have its own retail stores. It might have been a
 conscious decision of Apple to sell the iPhones through existing mobile
 network operators (MNOs) in a locked state apart from APRs. This
 arrangement suited both Apple and MNOs since the former did not have to
 incur establishment / marketing expenditures while the latter were guaranteed
 of turf-client for the period of lock-in. In any case, the locked-in customers had
 the option to get their phone unlocked by paying some fees. It is observed
 that similar arrangement has been made by Apple in many countries where it
 launched its iPhones. For instance, in the US, AT&T has been the exclusive
 network of the iPhone. 57. Secondly, the Commission notes that while the Informant has submitted that
 information pertains only to iPhone 3G and 3GS, it is not clear whether data
 relied in the information to portray Apple's position includes all variants of
 iPhone. In the opinion of the Commission, relevant market cannot be
 segmented variant-wise (as has been proposed by the Informant) unless it is
 established that different variants have such distinct characteristic so as to be
 viewed as a distinct product by the customers - the only test that has been
 enshrined in the Act is substitutability / interchangeability from demand
 perspective. 58. Coming to the issue of dominance of Apple, it is noted from various
 independent reports that Apple's share in smartphone market in India was
 around 3% during 2008-11. On this screening criterion, the argument of
 Apple's dominance falls flat. However, the DG has analyzed dominance of
 other factors as envisaged under 19(4) conditions and has concluded that
 even then, Apple cannot be said to be in a dominant position. The
 Commission endorses the view of the DG. 59. As regards the dominance of OP3 and OP4 in the second relevant market,
 the DG has held on the basis of section 19(4) conditions that neither Airtel nor
 Vodafone has adequate market power so as to be deemed dominant. Also,
 the argument made by the Informant that OP3 and OP4 hold nearly 52% of
 market share in the GSM services in India cannot be accepted for the fact
 that they are horizontal competitors who fight for greater market share.
 Moreover, there is no allegation qua these OPs that they have indulged into
 anti-competitive conduct among themselves for a common cause. 60. According to the data available on the website of Cellular Operators
 Association of India (COAI), Group Company wise percentage market share
 in terms of GSM subscribers for the month of December 2012 is as follows: 61. An issue has been raised by the Informant, submitting that OP3 and OP4 hold
 more than 50% of GSM market, thereby making them dominant in the market.
 The Commission notes that there is no indication of any sort of agreement
 between them (OP3 and OP4) that could be deemed anti-competitive.
 Therefore, it is not relevant to take cognizance of this piece of information in
 the given context, more so when they are competitors in the same market. 62. In view of the above discussion, Commission opines that since dominance
 does not get established, there can be no case for abuse of dominance under Section 4 of the Act. Anti-competitive agreement 63. Having opined on AoD aspect, the Commission shall now give its view on the
 agreement between Apple and Airtel / Vodafone that has been alleged to be
 'anti-competitive'. 64. According to Section 3 of the Act, "No enterprise or association of enterprises
 or person or association of persons shall enter into any agreement in respect
 of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or
 provision of services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable
 adverse effect on competition within India". Section 3(4) of the Act highlights 21 anti-competitive agreements between vertically related enterprise as "Any
 agreement amongst enterprises or persons at different stages or levels of the
 production chain in different markets, in respect of production, supply,
 distribution, storage, sale or price of, or trade in goods or provision of
 services, including-- (a) tie-in arrangement; (b) exclusive supply agreement; (c) exclusive distribution agreement; (d) refusal to deal; (e) resale price maintenance,
 shall be an agreement in contravention of sub-section (1) if such agreement
 causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in
 India". Further, what constitutes appreciable adverse effect on competition has been
provided for in Section 19(3) of the Act. 65. The allegation is focused on what is referred to as a lock-in arrangement
 between the handset manufacturer and service-provider by the Informant. At
 this stage, it is worthwhile to distinguish between tie-in and bundling as these
 two terms tend to be used interchangeably in common parlance especially in
 marketing strategies. Anti-competitive concerns, however, require a
 distinction in the two terms that an agreement sets out. Furthermore, an
 agreement, as in the present case, the Commission has carefully reviewed
 the tie-arrangement in the context of the dual roles of the service provider. On
 one hand the service providers are independent mobile telephonyproviders
 including internet services and on the other are distributors of iPhone. A tie-
 arrangement, therefore, must be assessed with respect to foreclosure in the
 handset market and to foreclosure in the service market; and whether the
 agreement results in consumer harm. Moreover, the Commission also notes
 that Apple's exclusive agreement with the two service providers was
 announced and widely known, and that consumers were informed at the time
 they purchased their iPhones of the necessity of these tied cellular services,
 which in themselves were not exclusive as iPhone could be purchased both
 with an Airtel and a Vodafone service. 66. A tying arrangement occurs when, through a contractual or technological
 requirement, a seller conditions the sale or lease of one product or service on
 the customer's agreement to take a second product or service. In other
 words, a firm selling products X and Y makes the purchase of product X
 conditional to the purchase of product Y. Product Y can be purchased freely
 on the market, but product X can only be purchased together with product Y.
 The product that a buyer is required to purchase in order to get the product
 the buyer actually wants is called the tied product. The product that the buyer
 wants to purchase is called the tying product. Examples of tying include the
 tied sales of machines and complementary products, the tied sales of
 machines and maintenance services, as well as technological ties that force
 consumers to buy two or more products from the same supplier due to 22 compatibility reasons. More often, tying is a sales strategy usually adopted by
 the companies to promote / introduce a slow-selling or unknown brand when
 it has in its portfolio a fast-selling or well known product, over which it has
 certain market power. 67. Price bundling is a strategy whereby a seller bundles together many different
 goods / items for sale and offers the entire bundle at a single price. There are
 two forms of price bundling - pure bundling, where the seller does not offer
 buyers the option of buying the items separately, and mixed bundling, where
 the seller offers the items separately at higher individual prices. From
 producers perspective, mixed bundling is usually preferable to pure bundling,
 both because there are fewer legal regulations forbidding it, and because the
 reference price effect makes it appear even more attractive to buyers.
 Bundling is used as a strategic pricing tool by the producers to price
 discriminate among groups of buyers with different preference schedule in
 order to capture larger pie of social surplus thus generated. 68. Having discussed tying and bundling, it is important to underscore the fact
 that there is a subtle difference between the two concepts. The term "tying" is
 most often used when the proportion in which the customer purchases the
 two products is not fixed or specified at the time of purchase, as in a
 "requirements tie-in" sale. A bundled sale typically refers to a sale in which
 the products are sold only in fixed proportions (e.g., one pair of shoes and
 one pair of shoe laces or a newspaper, which can be viewed as a bundle of
 sections, some of which may not be read at all by the customers). Bundling
 may also be referred to as a "package tie-in." It is also true that various
 foreign courts have occasionally used the two terms interchangeably. 69. On the other hand, anti-trust concerns are raised in the case of tie-in as held
 in section 3(4) (a) , although per se it is not anti-competitive. Therefore, the
 Commission has been at pains to distinguish between a tie-in arrangement
 and bundling in this specific case. Economics literature suggests that there
 are pro-competitive rationales for product-tying. These include assembly
 benefits (economies of scale and scope), quality improvement as also
 addressing pricing inefficiencies. Generally, the following conditions are
 necessary and essential in respect of anti-competitive tying: 70. The present case involves a distribution / sales arrangement between Apple
 and Airtel / Vodafone is a case of 'contractual tying' wherein the handset
 manufacturer and service provider have joined hands to offer a packaged
 product to a customer. Tying arrangements are common in the
 wirelesstelecommunications industry. Worldwide wireless networks compete
 forexclusive contracts to offer popular mobile devices. However, the
 Commission deliberated on whether such tying arrangements are anti-
 competitive. An agreement between two parties in a vertical chain to be anti-
 competitive essentially requires that theintention of such an agreement was
 foreclosure in both the relevant markets resulting in considerable consumer
 harm. But as pointed out that for a vertical agreement to be anti competitive
 requires the monopolization claim to hold, and given the minuscule market
 share of the tying party the monopolization claim will be contrived.
 Nevertheless, we assess this agreement in the framework of 19(3)(a) (b) and (c) by posing the following questions: 71. Given the fact that none of the opposite parties (Apple / Airtel / Vodafone)
 have dominant position in their respective market, as discussed earlier and
 that there has been no intention and evidence to show that market has been
 foreclosed to competitors or that entry-barriers have been erected for new
 entrants in any of the markets by any of the opposite parties, the anti-
 competitive analysis of the tie-in arrangement shall be made while addressing
 the above questions. 72. In this case, it is found that a consumer interested in buying an iPhone is tied
 to one of the two mobile networks i.e. Airtel or Vodafone. It is worth noting
 that at the time of launch of iPhone in India, Apple did not have an outlet to
 sell its iPhone, a high-end smartphone. Instead of investing money on
 creating sales and service outlet and incurring advertisement expenditure,
 Apple's strategy was to have tactical agreement with network operators,
 possibly the best partners for selling mobile handsets. This arrangement also
 helped Apple in gauging the public perception for iPhone before actually
 selling iPhone through its own retail stores. The mobile network companies
 who spent money on creating distribution channel and incurring
 advertisement expenditure wanted the iPhone to be locked-in for some period
 so that they would be able to recoup their investment over a period of time. 73. To assess the alleged anti-competitive effect of the tie-in arrangement
 between Apple and Airtel / Vodafone in line with Section 19(3) , the
 Commission examined the following: 74. Relying on the market share statistics of smartphones in India as provided by
 the DG, the Commission observes that Apple had a share of less than 6% in
 the market of smart phones during the period 2008-11. Furthermore, share of
 GSM subscribers using Apple iPhone to total GSM subscribers in India is
 miniscule (less than 0.1%). Similarly, relying on the data provided by the DG
 on mobile service provider, the Commission observes that no operator has
 more than 35% market share in an otherwise competitive mobile network
 service market. As none of the impugned operators (OP3 / OP4) have
 market-share exceeding 30%, that smartphone market in India is less than a
 tenth of the entire handset market and that Apple iPhone has less than 3%
 share in the smartphone market in India, it is highly improbable that there
 would be an AAEC in the Indian market. 75. In the present case, the Commission notes from the DG's investigation that
 Apple iPhone had approached several service providers to sell its handset
 without exclusivity as regards the service provider. Apart from service
 providers, these handsets were also sold through the Apple Premium
 Resellers (APRs). The exclusivity argument put forward by the Informant flies 25 in the evidence of multiple choices for both purchase of iPhone as well as
 network service provider for consumers. 76. The Commission also notes that a consumer having a mobile handset
 (smartphone or otherwise) is free to exercise his choice for availing network
 services without any restrictions. Furthermore, the network operators do not
 require any particular handset to be purchased by the customer in order to
 avail its network services. Moreover, the lock-in arrangement of iPhone to a
 particular network was for only for a specific period and not perpetual, a fact
 known to prospective customer. It is difficult to construe consumer harm from
 the 'tie-in' arrangement between the opposite parties. The Commission
 observes that there is no restriction on consumers to use the network
 services of OP3 and OP4 to the extent that the network services can be
 availed on any mobile handset, even an unlocked iPhone purchased from
 abroad. Also, a consumer who has purchased a locked iPhone in India and
 paid the unlocking fees is free to choose the network operator of his choice. 77. On the basis of facts submitted by the DG, none of the OPs have a position of
 strength to affect the market outcome in terms of market foreclosure or
 deterring entry, creating entry barriers or driving any existing competitor out of
 the market and within the theoretical framework of tying arrangement, the
 anti-competitive concerns in terms of section 3(4) violations does not hold. On
 the other hand, Commission has reasons to believe that the distribution
 arrangement between the impugned parties helped create a market for
 iPhone in India wherein domestic consumers got an opportunity to purchase a
 contemporary handset which was otherwise available through the grey
 market. 78. The Commission does not find any evidence to show that entry-barriers have
 been created for new entrants in the markets i.e. smartphone market and
 mobile services market by any of the impugned parties. Similarly, nothing has
 been brought to the notice of the Commission to reveal that existing
 competitors have been driven out from the market or that the market itself has
 been foreclosed. 79. Under these circumstances, on the basis of the counter-factual posed, the
 Commission opines that there is no anti-competitive effect of the tie-in
 arrangement as alleged by the Informant. In fact, there is some suggestion in
 the literature that the earlier tying arrangement between the iPhone and the
 service providers in other jurisdictions may have spurred wireless service
 providers to invest in innovation in mobile devices. Such innovation has
 resulted in an explosion of new mobile devices and continued growth of the
 mobile communications industry. It has not caused the disastrous results on
 competition or the formation of double-monopolies that some have feared.
 Hence, the belief that the tying arrangement has caused serious harm is
 misplaced, 26 80. In view of the foregoing, there is no case in terms of Section 3(4) violation. ORDER

On the basis of investigation and examination of the data the Commission does not
find the OPs in a dominant position in their respective relevant market to establish
violation of Section 4(2),(a),(b),(c),(d) and (e). No appreciable adverse effect on
competition in the market of smart-phones and/or mobile service has been
established, there is no contravention of Section 3 (4) of the Act. Accordingly, the
case is ordered to be closed. Secretary is directed to forward a copy of this Order to the concerned parties, in
terms of relevant provisions of the Act.