In a bid to enter the influencer marketing space, India’s IT Ministry on March 18 issued a tender for the empanelment (selection) of various social media marketing agencies, specializing in influencer marketing.  The primary objective is to enhance the reach of its MyGov project.

Why does the government need influencers?

As per the tender, the government wants to reach “out to a wider targeted population and enhance citizen engagement to a higher level” through influencer marketing and to expand the reach of MyGov (more on this below) in every State and UT. The tender states that the agency will provide a detailed plan for the influencer marketing campaign, which will include tasks like finding the “right mix of influencers” to achieve campaign objectives, handling content creation, media planning and execution, and analysing or reporting on the campaign results.

What is MyGov?

MyGov platform is a part of Digital India Corporation launched in 2014 under the Ministry of Electronics and IT. It is said to be a ‘Citizen Engagement Platform’ which collaborates with different government bodies and ministries to enable citizens to seek information, engage with policy formulation, and share their opinion on topics of “public interest and welfare”.

As of now, the project is active in 21 States and Union Territories and is present on almost major social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and LinkedIn with the username @MyGovIndia. It is also available on Indian social media platforms like Koo, ShareChat, Chingari, Roposo, Bolo Indya, and Mitron.

Why it matters:

In a world driven by social media, influencers have become important agents of marketing and promotion of brands. Not many would have expected the government to get a jump on this trend for promoting public interest projects. Given the power that influencers enjoy, it will be worth watching how influencer marketing strategies would impact the reach of public service advertisements and campaigns on government schemes on the internet. It is also important to note that some influencers are infamously known for spreading misinformation , violating rules of conduct , and cheating consumers .

We are inching closer to the election year and it makes us wonder how influencers would then be used to amplify certain government projects, locally and nationally, and influence public opinion. Will influencer marketing tackle or, instead, lead to more misinformation if the content is not scrutinised effectively? Who will be authorized to check this content? Will such a collaboration increase awareness, or cause further polarisation on critical social issues, policies, and political matters? These are a few questions to look out for following this move to partner with influencers for government communications.

What will the empaneled agencies do?

As per the tender, the scope of work for agencies on board will include:

The last date for submitting proposals is March 27, 2023, by 5 pm.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event