Email by a fraud asking for ₹8500 through email accounts [protected]@hotmail.com and [protected]@yahoo.co.uk by placing fake orders online through fake cheque payments. fake delivery agent named as Fateh Singh in truecaller ( +[protected] talking in an African accent as Kelvin Gray, location in Delhi, asking for instant transfer of ₹8500 for the clearance of package of cheque (after placing fake painting order). Email 1. I HEREBY ATTACHED THE PICTURE Hello How are you doing today? I guess you are fine. Thanks for your feedback. I would have called you on the phone just to finalize everything but is very difficult this time due to the nature of my work. I work for the merchant Navy as a navigation officer here in the UK as a Junior Staff. Like-kind of six months on and off onboard ships. I'm doing this for a very good friend of mine and her husband as a surprise gift for their wedding anniversary. I won't be able to meet up to India that is why I intend to surprise them. I need full-size hand-painted (Oil Colors or Acrylic Color portraits on Canvas) of 1 Couple. The size should come in size 36”x 48 (Inch). I need the job done before 20 days because of the location for delivery in Bangalore. I hereby attached the picture but you can make the background a flat smooth suitable background to exaggerate the faces. Then it will look like a beautiful painting not a photograph) So, let me know how much it will cost for the Oil Colors or Acrylic color portraits on Canvas and I want this in the best quality. Waiting for your urgent response. Best Regards Suchitra Pal Email 2. I WANT THE JOB DONE ON TIME Hello, I got the mail you send to me but I don't know how possible you can get this done before the 05th of October or Deadline 10th of September 2021 if you received the amount for the (Oil on Canvas) bcoz this is quite an urgent project and I don't want any disappointment from your side. But if you are sure you can meet up to the time period then I should proceed with the Payment to avoid any forms of a delay from my end. I understand most Courier Service is under lockdown. if Courier not possible from your side, You inform me so I can handle the Courier once you complete your job bcoz I'm sending this to Bangalore. Regarding the payment. Full payment will be done through my India Cheque Bcoz i don't have any mist of online Transfer right now bcoz of OTP. But base on good faith, you can start working on my artwork, so we do not lose time. I will Issue out the cheque and get it send to you asap which you will receive in India within 2days unfailingly. So I will request you to get back to me with the following information to get the payment to you. Your full name as it will appear on the payment, Address to ensure delivery in your hands through regular mails or a courier service, your phone number on the package to avoid package missing in transit. 1...YOUR FULL NAME IN CAP AS IT WILL APPEAR ON THE CHEQUE 2...YOUR FULL ADDRESS IN CAP FOR DELIVERY 3...YOUR MOBILE NUMBER ON THE PACKAGE 4...TOTAL AMOUNT TO BE PAID Kindly get back to me with this requested address contact information so that we can proceed asap bye for now.. I guess I'll feel more comfortable paying ahead now. Best Regards Suchitra Pal Email 3 SENDING WILL BE DONE TODAY Hello How are you today? I hope you are cool. I got the information details you send and I'm extremely happy base on your promise that the painting will be done before time even In these tough times, I am honored and humbled with The promise shown to me. The sending of the cheque will be sent today unfailingly as I promised as we don't have enough time to waste any longer. Once the sending is done. I will get back to you with the sending details. Meanwhile, The quality of your work will determine my patronization with you bcoz I still have a lot of friends I still need to surprise. The first impression of your Job will determine everything been the first time. So you don't disappoint me Immediately the sending is done I will come back to you with the sending details. Please make sure you check your mail from time to time in case if there is any urgent information, they need from the courier Service. Moreover, please do you have any other Alternative hotline number I can include on the package in case they are coming for the delivery of the package to your Door Step. Waiting for your urgent response Best Regards Suchitra Pal Email 4: THE CHEQUE WILL ARRIVE IN INDIA TOMORROW MORNING Hello, This is Suchitra Pal, Base on Trust I have to send the Cheque to your giving address. The Airline will arrive in India tomorrow morning by 8:45 AM, They will call you before coming to the delivery. The parcel has been Courier through a private Courier Service but it will be delivered through Lufthansa Airline bcos they work together as a partnership while their flight will first arrive at Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi in other to get all their parcel registered before it will be dispatched to their various destination through their local Agent in India. So, you have to make sure you are available at home to receive the package once you got a call from the delivery local Agent because you have to sign before they release the package to you. Moreover, The total amount on the cheque is 38, 500 /- Rupees. I have included the extra amount of 8, 500 Rupees because it was mention on the Airway bill that 90 Pounds have to be paid before delivery which is 8, 500 Rupees but I was not told if this amount will be paid but I added the amount in case they charge for it because I don't want to cause you any financial problem and I don't want any delay to occur. The delivery agent will instruct you tomorrow regarding the clearing process from India Airport and if the amount is requested then you can help me to transfer to him on time so he can clear the parcel then you deduct your 8, 500 Rupees you transferred later once the amount on the cheque is credited into your account while the rest 30, 000 /- Rupees will be for your job done. Please, make sure the job is done in the best quality and you keep to time as promised. Also, you take a snap of the Job done after completion and send it to my mail for viewing. Hoping to do more business with you more in future. I hereby attached you the scan copy of the Cheque and the Airway Bill in the mail. Best Regards Suchitra Pal Email 5: YOUR PARCEL HAS ARRIVE IN INDIA We are contacting you in reference to the delivery of the Package being addressed in your name, sent by Mrs Suchitra Pal from the UK, with the reference number [protected] on the Airway Bill, we are to let you know that your Package is now with us in our Head office in India. Just want to inform you that you are to pay the sum of 8, 500 Rupees the clearing before the delivery of Package to your address. This payment has to be done as earlier as possible because we have to register the package before it will be sent out for delivery in your address by 06:30 Pm today (01.09.2021) that is why you have to make the payment of your delivery now because we will have to deliver it through our personnel which we won't be able to do until we receive the payment and after receiving the money, we will forward the package to your address which you have to sign and it will be delivered to you. We hereby refer you to remit the payment of this money to the Account details state below so that your Package can be delivered to you as dated and timed. Here are the Account details. You can transfer through Online Mode (Googlepay, IMPS, etc) A/C NAME: SANTOSH A/C NO: [protected] IFSC CODE: JSFB0004551 BANK NAME: JANA SMALL FINANCE BANK LTD BRANCH: NEW DELHI AMOUNT TO TRANSFER: 8, 500 rupees.. Once the payment is done you have to send us the screenshot of transfer along with any xeror Copy of your ID proof so we can use this to clear the parcel from the Custom. After that, we can come for delivery. Waiting for the payment screenshot along with your ID Proof. Best regards Delivery Agent Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (22)