A.Muhamed Mustaque, J. These cases present a question of seminal

importance in judicial information policy followed

by the Courts in India. They have been placed

before us on a reference order of the learned

Single Judge, Justice Anil K. Narendran in W.P.

(C).No.6687/2017, dated 15/3/2021, to determine the

questions involved, finally, by an authoritative

pronouncement. In the detailed reference order

running up to more than 80 pages, the learned
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:2:- single Judge referred the point of law to be

answered by us, thus: 2. After the reference, some more cases not

related to family matters, have also been placed

before us for consideration. The points involved

in these cases are related to the publication of

Court judgments, other than judgments in which

anonymity is protected under the law and allowing

free access to such information. W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:3:- 3. The brief facts of each case are set out

hereunder: Subsequently, in the Crl.M.C No.5477/2016 filed

before this Court, the de facto complainant filed

an affidavit stating that she does not wish to

pursue the matter and consented to quash the

entire proceedings. By judgment dated 7/9/2016,

Crl.M.C No.5477/2016 was allowed and the

proceedings in C.C.No.344/2015 were quashed. This

judgment has been published by Indian Kanoon and

indexed by Google. The petitioner submits that the right to be

forgotten being recognized as a part of the right
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:4:- to privacy and the judgment being of no public

importance, there is no justification for it being

in the public domain. 3.(ii). W.P. (C) No. 21917 of 2020: Petitioner, a

Dentist by profession, was accused in Crime No.

1111 of 2013 of Kollam East Police Station, but

was subsequently acquitted of all the charges in

the year 2019. A bail order dated 9/5/2014 in Bail

Application No. 2662 of 2014 in the above

proceedings was published by the website Indian

Kanoon, and the same appears on a search on

Google. The petitioner also submits that the order

on Indian Kanoon incorrectly states the crime

number. Relying upon the judgment of Justice

K.S.Puttaswamy (Retd) and another v. Union of

India and Others [(2017) 10 SCC 1], the petitioner

submits that the right to privacy includes the

right to be forgotten. In light of which, the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:5:- petitioner is entitled to the protection of his

fundamental right to privacy and has a right to

erase contents that are unnecessary, irrelevant,

inadequate or no longer relevant. 3.(iii). W.P (C) 8174 of 2020: The first

petitioner (P1) is the mother and the second

petitioner (P2) is her daughter, who is an MBBS

student. The petitioners submit that in the year

2014, when P2 was wrongfully detained and

confined, P1 filed a habeas corpus petition.

Subsequently, P2 was released and the writ

petition [W.P. (Crl) 266/2014] was closed. The

grievance of the petitioners is that judgment in

the above writ petition is published by Indian

Kanoon on its website, which appears on the search

engine, Google, putting the identity of P2 in the

public domain and causing substantial prejudice to

her. W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:6:- 3.(iv). W.P (C) No. 6687/ 2017: The petitioner, an

Indian resident, had approached this Court in W.P.

(C) No. 23996/2015 for a direction to solemnize

her marriage to a US citizen under the Special

Marriages Act, 1954 . The writ petition was disposed of on 7/8/2015 by

this Court with a direction to the Marriage

Officer to receive the intended marriage notice

and solemnize the marriage. The marriage however,

could not be solemnized due to differences between

the parties. The petitioner is aggrieved by the publication of the said judgment on Indian Kanoon with her name

in the cause title, which has been indexed by the

search engine, Google (respondents 2 and 3).

The petitioner submits that substantial prejudice

has been caused to her due to the information

being available in the public domain, which has

caused her mental trauma and agony.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:7:- Petitioner submits that the rule that the

publication of Court records will not violate the

right to privacy is subject to the exceptions in

the interest of decency. It is the petitioner's submission that the first

respondent, Ministry of Communication and IT

Department of Electronic and Information

Technology, is the nodal agency that regulates and

formulates the policies of the Government in

relation to information technology, electronics

and the internet, in light of which it should

compel the second respondent, an intermediary to

de-index the links to the page. 3.(v). W.P (C) No. 7642 of 2020: Aggrieved by the

publication of the judgments of the learned Single

Judge of this Court in Bail Application

No.7123/2017 in which he was granted anticipatory

bail, and Criminal M.C. No. 4510/2018 by which the

criminal proceedings against the petitioner and
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:8:- his father were quashed, the petitioner has

approached this Court. The petitioner, a Homoeopathic Doctor, submits

that the third respondent, Indian Kanoon has

without the prior permission of this Court, or the

petitioner as mandated by the IT (Reasonable

Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive

Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011

published the above judgments, which are available

on the respondent 4 and respondent 7 search

engines. The petitioner submits that his right to privacy

has been violated and that his right to be

forgotten which emanates from the right to

privacy, should be protected. The petitioner further submits that respondents 5

and 6 regulate intermediaries and are duty bound

to ensure that intermediaries do not infringe the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:9:- privacy of persons when exercising their right to

publish. 3.(vi). W.P. (C) No. 20387 of 2018: The petitioner

was the 3rd accused in C.P. No. 61/2011 and the

complainant (CW3) in CP. No. 62/2011, on the file

of the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-II,

Nedumangad. The matter being settled between the parties, the

petitioner and the other accused filed Crl. M.C.

No. 100/2013 to quash proceedings in C.P. No.

61/2011 and Crl. M.C. No.109/2013 to quash

proceedings in C.P. No. 62/2011. Both CPs were

quashed by a common order dated 10/1/2013. The

above two Crl.M.C. Nos.100/2013 and 109/2013 were

published on the website of Indian Kanoon.

The petitioner submits his right to privacy has

been infringed and that no guidelines have been

issued by respondents 1 to 3 regarding publication
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:10:- of details of individuals in cases that have been

settled between the parties. 3.(vii). W.P.(C) No. 12699 of 2021: The

petitioner's grievance is that the publication of

judgments disclosing the petitioner and her

parent's identity, in W.P (C) No.20773/2010 and

Tr.P(C) No. 353/2013, where the petitioner's

parents are arrayed as parties on opposite sides,

is an intrusion of her privacy. The petitioner submits that such publication by

the 6th respondent, Indian Kanoon is in

contravention of the Hon'ble Supreme Court e-

Committee's communication dated 16.07.2013,

directing all High Courts to refrain from

uploading case related information except case

number and its status on the internet, in cases

relating to, inter alia, matrimonial matters. 3.(viii). W.P. (C) No. 29448 of 2021: It is the

petitioner's case that he has been falsely arrayed
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:11:- as accused in Crime No. 734/2020 for the offences

punishable under Section 67(B)(a)(b) of the

Information Technology Act and Section 15 of the

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

The petitioner approached this Court for

anticipatory bail in B.A. No. 6482/2020 and the

same was allowed as per judgment dated 16/10/2020.

This order of the Court has been published on

Indian Kanoon which has then been indexed by the

search engine Google. The petitioner submits that

his right to privacy has been infringed. 3.(ix). W.P.(C) No. 2604 of 2021: Aggrieved by the

petitioner's name, age, father's name and

residential address in a judgment in O.P.(F.C)

No.64/2019 in relation to her minor child's

custody matter being visible to the general public

on various search engines, she has approached this

Court claiming that her right to privacy as
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:12:- enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution is

being violated. PROLOGUE: 4. We shall advert to the arguments and

submissions of the learned counsels who appeared

for the parties and Shri B.G.Harindranath, learned

counsel for the Kerala High Court whose

submissions are more as an amicus curiae,

hereafter under the respective subcategories for a

proper understanding of the issues and arguments

thereon. We think that before adverting to the

distinct issues, we need to discuss the right of

privacy of individuals and the interest of the

public qua judicial institutions. Accordingly, we

have categorized the subjects for discussion and

consideration viz. privacy, Courts as democratic

institutions, open data and public interest and

the right to be forgotten, for elucidation on the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:13:- broader premises of the issues involved in these

cases: 5. Humans by nature are social animals. They are

not living in isolation in society. They possess

freedom and liberty of choice. Humans possess

certain inalienable rights which are so

fundamental and related to their person and body.

The aspiration of humans as individuals is to live

with dignity. This notion of the individual's

right to choose a life of his own began to be

confronted with, in history when the sovereign

started limiting his authority. The moral value of

sensations to secure a private life, not entangled

with the public sphere, created a sense of

possessiveness in man. This individualistic notion

and idea of private reason identified with the

dignity of the individual is a starting point for

defining privacy as a right. The learned counsel
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:14:- Shri B.G.Harindranath placing reliance on Peter

Semayne v. Richard Grecham [All ER Rep 62; 5 Co

Rep 91 a], decided by the Court of Kings Bench in

the year 1604 wherein the Court recognised the

right of the homeowner to defend his house against

unlawful entry even by the King`s agents,

submitted that no one has the absolute freedom to

encroach on the private life of individuals except

as authorised by law. He also drew attention to

the earliest article on right to privacy written

by Samuel D. Warren; Louis D. Brandeis in Harvard

Law Review, Vol. 4, No. 5. (Dec. 15, 1890), pp.

193-220, 205. In a prelude of this article, the

authors mention the evolution of the right to

privacy. Thus, in very early times, the law gave a remedy only for
physical interference with life and property, for
trespasses vi et armis. Then the "right to life" served
only to protect the subject from battery in its various
forms; liberty meant freedom from actual restraint; and the
right to property secured to the individual his lands and
his cattle. Later, there came a recognition of man's
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:15:- spiritual nature, of his feelings and his intellect.
Gradually the scope of these legal rights broadened; and
now the right to life has come to mean the right to enjoy
life,-the right to be let alone; the right to liberty
secures the exercise of extensive civil privileges; and the
term "property" has grown to comprise every form of
possession-intangible, as well as tangible.

Lord Cottenham stated that a man "is entitled to be
protected in the exclusive use and enjoyment of that which
is exclusively his," and cited with approval the opinion of
Lord Eldon, as reported in a manuscript note of the case of
Wyatt v. Wilson, in 1820, respecting an engraving of George
the Third during his illness, to the effect that "if one of
the late king's physicians had kept a diary of what he
heard and saw, the court would not, in the king's lifetime,
have permitted him to print and publish it;" and Lord
Cottenham declared, in respect to the acts of the
defendants in the case before him, that "privacy is the
right invaded. The principle which protects personal writings and all
other personal productions, not against theft and physical
appropriation, but against publication in any form, is in
reality not the principle of private property, but that of
an inviolate personality. 6. The problem of the present nature of the right

to privacy, as in these cases, has arisen as an

impact of technology in our lives. Technology has
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:16:- opened the world around us and created a virtual

public space. The doors to this public space have

been opened forever, making the identity of the

individual digitally immortal. Digital immortality

defines the continuation of an active or passive

digital presence even after death. The online

presence of data permanently raises new issues

regarding the right to privacy. The social and

ethical problems in relation to digital immorality

and artificial intelligence which can identify the

data stored through algorithms are the subject

matter of debate across the globe. This problem

before the Courts in India essentially stems from

this new era of technology due to the lack of

legislation or regulation. The intersection of

privacy and technology has become a challenge to

the judicial administrator as well. The law Courts

are attempting to keep up with the advancement of

technology to bring changes in the judicial

administration and function, as well as to
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:17:- champion the rights of individuals to protect

their privacy. The challenges in these writ

petitions before us, throw up issues on the

judicial side and open our eyes to judicial

administration. The first and foremost important

task for us, in this case, is defining privacy in

the context of data made available by parties

before the Court. In light of the declaration of

privacy as a fundamental right by the Apex Court

in Justice K.S.Puttaswamy 's case (supra) we are

inclined to define privacy in relation to Court

data as data concerning the names of the

party/parties and identifying their cause before

the Court. There are different dimensions of the

information before Courts which plays an integral

role in encouraging fair and transparent decision-

making by the Courts, giving them legitimacy and

contributing to the dissemination of information

about the judicial process among the public. This

also brings up friction between the right to
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:18:- privacy and the right to anonymity. Justice

Chandrachud in Justice K.S.Puttaswamy 's case

(supra), in relation to privacy and anonymity,

observed as follows: Both anonymity and privacy prevent others from gaining
access to pieces of personal information, yet they do so in
opposite ways. Privacy involves hiding information whereas
anonymity involves hiding what makes it personal. 7. Privacy is about choice. This choice is sought

to be extended as anonymity in Court proceedings.

Privacy in the judicial information context is

essentially related to the contents of the

information in the case. Anonymity on the other

hand, in the judicial information sphere, is a

process of denying information to the public about

the identity of the parties related to a case.

Anonymity is the subject of privacy in a Courtroom

and there exists a subtle distinction between

anonymity and privacy in relation to the contents
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:19:- of the judicial proceedings. The nature of privacy

can be classified as informational privacy.

Undoubtedly, we have to hold that personal

information as above, of the parties in a case,

has to be classified as data forming part of his

or her privacy. The individual's right to exercise

control over his personal data and to be able to

control his/her own life has been recognized in Justice K.S.Puttaswamy 's case (supra) in the

separate judgment authored by Justice Sanjay

Kishan Kaul without recognizing it as an absolute

right. 629. The right of an individual to exercise control over
his personal data and to be able to control his/her own
life would also encompass his right to control his
existence on the internet. Needless to say that this would
not be an absolute right. The existence of such a right
does not imply that a criminal can obliterate his past, but
that there are variant degrees of mistakes, small and big.
and it cannot be said that a person should be profiled to
the nth extent for all and sundry to know.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:20:- Justice Chandrachud also recognised this right in

the above judgment of Justice K.S.Puttaswamy's

case (supra) holding: Anonymity though is different from privacy, it

becomes a facet of privacy when the cause and

content in a case are identified with the parties

in the lis. The privacy aspect of such information
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:21:- about the identity of the parties cannot be

separated from the cause that is being considered

by the Court in open transparent court

proceedings. The sensitive and personal

information of individual parties was exposed to

the public when the Court started making judgments

available through its web portals. Law reporters

beaming court news online, have worldwide online

viewers and followers. The judgments became a gold

mine of data for online publishers, to the

satisfaction of lawyers, litigants, researchers

etc. Such publishers and legal databases developed

search tools using algorithms for easy

identification of the judgments with reference to

the name of parties, subject and text of the

judgments. Search engines like Google help users

find the information they are looking for, using

keywords and phrases. No one has any grievance

against the open, transparent court proceedings

and the conduct of cases in the open justice
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:22:- system. The problem for them is allowing their

personal and private information to remain

permanently in the digital public space, invading

their right to privacy and right to forget the

past. The task for us, therefore, is to decide not

only on the privacy claimed in the present but

also in the future. II. ON EVOLUTION OF COURTS IN INDIA AS A

DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTION AND ITS MARCH TOWARDS THE

DIGITAL AGE: The Archbishop explained to the King that the

Judges were delegates of the King and what the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:23:- King might do himself when it seemed best to him,

what he usually left to these delegates. Sir

Edward Coke, considered the greatest Judge at that

time, answered on behalf of the Judges, "that by

the law of England, the King in person could not

adjudge any cause; all cases, civil and criminal,

were to be determined in some court of justice

according to the law and custom of the realm. by M.V.Pylee]. W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:28:- 12. The Crown appointed the Judges of the Supreme

Court, marking a shift from being a Company's

Court to a King's Court. The establishment of the

Supreme Court under the Regulating Act allowed

greater intervention by the English Government and

Parliament in Indian affairs and control over the

Company's proceedings. The policy underlying the

Regulating Act caused conflict between the Court

and the Council which led to the passage of the

Act of Settlement of 1781. This Act set limits to

the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in matters

concerning revenue to safeguard the interests of

the executive. It also recognised the Civil and

Criminal Provincial Courts, existing independently

of the Supreme Court; and of the Governor-General

and Council as the Chief Appellate Court of the

country. [See Chapters II & III "History and

Constitution of the Courts and Legislative

Authorities in India", by Herbert Cowell]
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:29:- 13. Subsequently, to do away with the anomalous

procedure followed by the Supreme Courts, the

Indian High Courts Act, 1861 was enacted to

abolish the Supreme Courts and Sadar Adalat. In

their place, High Courts of Judicature for each of

the three Presidencies were authorised to be

constituted. M.P. Jain in his book "Outlines of

Indian Legal History", writes about the three

Presidency Courts as follows: 14. The Courts established during the British rule

including the Federal Courts under the government

of India Act 1935 never reflected the WILL OF THE

PEOPLE. The appointment of the judges and the

nature of disputes always insulated the interest

of the ruling British from being agitated. b). The Emergence Of Judiciary In India As A

Democratic Institution In the Post-Constitutional

Period: 15. The supremacy of law in India reflected the

WILL of the people, on the adoption of the

Constitution on 26th November 1949, which

effectively came into force on 26th January 1950.

The very democratic character of the Constitution

ensured the creation of institutions accountable

to the people. The Legislature, Executive and
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:32:- Judiciary, though form different pillars of the

state, in essence, are created to sustain the Will

of the people. One of the aspects of democracy is

the creation of an independent judiciary. In the

First Judges Case, S.P Gupta v. Union of India [1981 Supp SCC 87], the Court spoke about the

concept of independence of the judiciary as

follows: 16. The independent judiciary was thus obliged to

ensure that the supremacy of law prevailed. The

Constitution envisages that the judiciary not only

states the law through an interpretative process

but also protects the Constitution and democracy.

In that process, the judiciary cannot act like

unelected legislators and erode parliamentary

supremacy to legislate by undermining the rule of

law. The essence of democracy, characteristically,

is defined by the role of each institution to
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:34:- sustain the balance contemplated in the

Constitution, making each independent in its own

sphere. Democracy literally means rule by the

people. The term is derived from the Greek

dēmokratia, which was coined from dēmos ("people")

and kratos ("rule") in the middle of the 5th

Century BCE to denote the political systems then

existing in some Greek city-states, notably Athens

[Source online Britannica, viewed on 11/12/24].

The independent judiciary being a creation of

democracy, must also possess the character of

democratic institutions by allowing public

scrutiny. In a true liberal democracy, public

opinion is necessary. This public opinion prevents

missteps and allows institutions to improve their

functioning. "One of the major political theorists

of obligatory public processes was Jeremy Bentham;

he argued that a host of institutions ought to

operate under the principle of "publicity," so

that the "Tribunal of Public Opinion" could assess
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:35:- the results. Through publicity ("the very soul of

justice"), judges, while presiding at trial, would

themselves be "on trial." The idea of public

oversight of judges coupled with legal protections

for judicial independence was a departure from

Renaissance conceptions of judges, who were

beholden to the monarchs who appointed them. The

public's new authority to judge judges (and,

inferentially, the government)helped to turn

"rites" into "rights." The more that spectators

were active participants ("auditors," to borrow

again from Bentham), the more Courts could serve

as a venue for the dissemination of information" 17. In a quest to ensure credibility and to

sustain people's confidence, judges themselves

through internal mechanisms adopted core judicial

values. Restatement of values of judicial life as

adopted by the full Supreme Court on 7th May 1997,

assured the public of confidence in the judicial

system. Besides, Bangalore Principles of Judicial

Conduct 2002 adopted by a judicial group on

strengthening judicial integrity, in a meeting of

Chief Justices at the Hague, gave momentum to

judicial ethics and standards to be followed by

all. C. Evolving Accountability And Transparency In

Judicial Function In The Era Of Digital Space: 18. The independence of the judiciary cannot be

assessed in isolation of its functioning. The

functioning of the judiciary, on both
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:37:- administrative and judicial sides, must carry the

edifice of the democratic character to sustain

public confidence. Accordingly, Courts in India

generally follow an open Court justice system. The

closed-door justice system is a challenge to

public confidence. 19. In Supreme Court Advocates on Record

Association and another v. Union of India [(2016)

5 SCC 1], the Court opined on judicial function

and public confidence as follows: The judiciary cannot ignore measures to gain

public confidence and is compelled to adopt steps

for enhancing transparency in its functioning. The

judiciary was quick to embrace Information

Communication Technology (ICT) tools to bring

transparency to the administration of justice. One

of the challenges faced by lawyers, clerks,

litigants etc. was the lack of information on

details of the cases before the Court. The Court

also found it difficult to provide information to

all, with its limited human resources. One of the

objectives of the e-committee of the Supreme Court

of India is to make the justice delivery system

accessible, cost-effective, transparent and

accountable. ICT tools are used in the judiciary

for improving the justice delivery system to

enhance efficiency, timelines, better access to

justice, provide citizen-centric services etc. In

Swapnil Tripathi v. Supreme Court Of India [(2018)
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:39:- 10 SCC 639], the Apex Court in the context of

live-streaming of Court proceedings, elaborated

the concept of open justice, judicial

accountability and transparency and opined as

follows: III. OPEN DATA AND LEGAL ECOSYSTEM: Whereas, Article 8 grants protection of personal

data as a fundamental right subject to other

fundamental rights [See Art. 52(1) of the

Charter]. 24. Although the Data Protection Directive of 1995

(Directive 95/46/EC) contained no express right to

be forgotten, the Court of Justice of the European

Union (CJEU) in its decision in the Google Spain

v. AEPD [Case C-131/12 Judgment of the Court

(Grand Chamber) Google Spain SL v. Agencia

Española de Protección de Datos (AEPD], held that

an implied right existed in the Directive.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:45:- 25. The CJEU relied upon Articles 6 , 12 and 14 of

the Directive 95/46/EC to hold that individuals

have control over their personal information and a

general right to "erase" said information. 26. In Google Spain v. AEPD, the grievance of the

plaintiff was that links to newspaper articles

relating to his insolvency proceedings were

available on a Google search of his name.

Contending that although the article was truthful,

it injured his reputation and violated his

privacy, thereby warranting erasure as it was no

longer relevant. Although the CJEU did not direct

the removal of the article itself which was

published lawfully, it directed Google to remove

links to the webpage containing personal

information on any of the four conditions, such as

where information was i)inadequate, ii)irrelevant, iii)no longer relevant, or iv)excessive in

relation to the purposes of the processing at

issue. This was to be applicable even to

information published lawfully and that was

factually correct. The CJEU held: 27. The recognition of this right to be forgotten

is further supported by the General Data

Protection Regulation (GDPR) which supersedes

Directive 95/46/EC and expressly recognises this

right. Article 17 of the GDPR lays down when a

data subject can exercise the right of erasure,

the obligation of data controllers to erase links

to third-party websites, and the exceptions to the

when the right can be exercised. B. Defining The Right To Be Forgotten: 28. The right to be forgotten is derived from the

broader category of the right to privacy. Cécile

de Terwangne in her paper "Internet Privacy and

the Right to be Forgotten/ Right to Oblivion",

defines the right to be forgotten as 'the right

for natural persons to have information about them
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:48:- deleted after a certain period of time.' The basis

of this right to be forgotten being 'internet

privacy', this concept relates to individual

autonomy, rather than secrecy or intimacy.

Terwangne writes: 29. The right to be forgotten consists of various

facets or forms of rights which is important in

defining the extent of this right. Professors W.

Gregory Voss And Celine Castets-Renard's in their

paper "Proposal For An International Taxonomy On

The Various Forms Of The "Right To Be Forgotten": 30. The 'right to delisting' and 'right to

oblivion' are facets of the right to be forgotten

in the digital context. The right to delisting or

de-indexing is the right of individuals to request

search engines to delink web pages containing

personal information about them. The authors Voss

and Renard write: 31. Whereas, the 'right to obscurity' according to

the authors refers to making personal information

relatively hard to find. According to Hartzog and

Stutzman, information is obscure online if it

lacks one or more key factors i.e. search

visibility, unprotected access, identification, or

clarity that are essential for its discovery or

comprehension. However, there is no legal

recognition of this right at present. [See Woodrow

Hartzog & Frederic Stutzman, The Case for Online

Obscurity, 101 CALIF, L. REV. 1, 4 (Feb. 2013).] 32. The last categorisation of the right is the

'right to oblivion' which allows individuals to

demand the deletion of personal information

collected by information society services. An

example of this right can be seen in the personal
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:52:- data protection law of Nicaragua. The authors Voss

and Renard, with regard to the right to oblivion,

write: 33. The interpretation of the extent to which this

right to be forgotten will be applicable in India,

is an important consideration in determining the

liability of the different stakeholders, actors,

publishers etc. and the extent to which this right

will be available in different judicial

proceedings. Whether the right is available on

current as well as future claims is a question to

be answered by us in the context of the different

factual matrices before us. This right to be
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:53:- forgotten is predicated on the past, as is evident

from its nomenclature which includes the term

"forgotten". Therefore, it can only apply

retrospectively, on information that has already

been disclosed, rather than being claimed to mask

information ex-ante. C. Right To Erasure: 34. Under Article 17 of the GDPR, individuals have

the right to have their personal data erased if

the personal data is no longer necessary for the

purpose for which it was collected. In the

European context, the right to erasure is

considered as the right to be forgotten. However,

in the Indian context, we are looking at these

concepts by relating them to fundamental rights.

We may have to distinguish this right on broader

aspects. We have already observed that the right

to be forgotten is predicated on the past. The

right to erasure does not depend upon the passage
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:54:- of time or any period. Erasure means to delete. In

the Indian scenario, these rights rest on

fundamental rights not like in Europe, where it is

based on European directives and more or less a

regulatory mechanism exists related to data

transmission or dissemination of personal

information. Therefore, the right to erasure

cannot be understood in the same manner, as we

refer to the right to be forgotten. The right to

be forgotten can be claimed to erase memory to

move forward in life with dignity. Whereas, when

the information is incorrect or irrelevant the

right to erasure can be claimed. In a given case,

a party, if implicated in a criminal case is

later, on investigation found to be innocent and

has no connection with the crime involved, such a

party may be permitted to invoke the right to

erasure immediately to delete all details

published online. In a claim based on the right to

be forgotten, what is to be considered is the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:55:- interest of a party to erase memory related to

events in the past and to build a future with

sincerity and good deeds and move forward in life.

This is the distinction we want to draw here.

PROBLEMS STATED: 35.(a) The publication of Court judgments online

in criminal matters offends the fundamental right

i.e the right to be forgotten. 35.(b) Judgments arising out of matrimonial and

family disputes are purely private disputes. Law

recognizes the protection of privacy. Therefore,

the publication of judgments online and allowing

them to be viewed in the digital space is

violative of privacy. 35.(c) Publishers of judgments, like Indian Kanoon

and other law journals, have no right to publish

the details of parties ignoring the privacy rights
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:56:- of litigants which includes their right to be

forgotten. 35.(d) The absence of a judicial policy regulating

uploading of judgments containing details of names

of parties and allowing them to be indexed by

search engines in the digital space is violative

of the right to privacy of litigants. 35.(e) Search engines, like Google, shall erase or

redact personal data contained in the judgments

from the digital domain. 35.(f) Digital eternity in retaining judgments in

the digital domain forever is violative of the

fundamental right to be forgotten.

REFRAMING THE DISCUSSION ON THE JUDICIARY'S

APPROACH TO BUILDING MEASURES TO RAISE PUBLIC

CONFIDENCE AND ALLOWING JUDGMENTS CONTAINING

PERSONAL DATA IN THE PUBLIC SPHERE: 36. The identity of the judiciary based on public

confidence is not ordinarily possible without

there being free flow of information on judicial

functioning. A litigant or an accused before Court

of law is a private person on whom the public

seldom shows interest to gaze. Therefore, they

question why their personal data is allowed to

appear in the public sphere. On the same lines, if

a litigant or accused is a public figure, the

curiosity of the public to watch judicial conduct

and function is so high. Often, the media carries

headlines of breaking news with minute-by-minute

details of the Court proceedings, including what

the judge spoke during the proceedings in such

cases where a public figure is involved. In open

justice, as we discussed earlier, the Courtroom

must afford an opportunity to the public to form

opinions about its functioning. This is the

foremost consideration in building public

confidence. It is not necessarily the case details
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:58:- of 'X' or 'Y' that a commoner wants to know, but

the information on how a case of 'X' or 'Y' is

decided in the Court of law. However scant

curiosity may have been shown in Court

proceedings, Courts cannot count on the number of

people interested, to deny such information from

coming into the public sphere. The sense of public

sphere must guide the Court in allowing judgments

to come into the public domain. Jürgen Habermas, a

German philosopher and social theorist, defines

the concept of 'Public Sphere' as: sici=0094-033X%28197423%290%3A3%3C49%3ATPSAEA

%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Z viewed on 13/12/22] 37. Courtrooms by virtue of Section 153-B of CPC

and Section 327 of Cr.P.C. are statutorily public

spheres where people are allowed to view

proceedings and form public opinion. The very idea

of keeping Courtrooms open to the public is to

safeguard the open Court principle which is a

fundamental aspect of the democratic ecosystem. 38. The rationale behind Section 74 of the

Evidence Act making judicial records public

records is to allow the public to have access to

the information in such records. Indian law

recognizes Open Court justice. "The phrase 'Open

Courts', refers to a longstanding practice, mostly
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:60:- in common law countries, wherein all proceedings

before a Court of law are held in full public

view. If proceedings are held in full public view

it follows that anybody, be it a court reporter or

a journalist or an innovator like Indiankanoon.org

can produce such data." [See the research report

on "Open Courts in the Digital Age: A prescription

for an Open Data Policy" by VIDHI Centre for Legal

Policy, Page 9]. This research also refers to the

jurisprudential underpinnings of 'Open Court'

practices. The research has relied on the works

of Jeremy Bentham, John Bowring (ed)(William Tait,

Edinburgh 1843) 316, 355). Bentham justified 'Open

Courts' on the following reasoning: 39. It is pointed out in the research that Open

Courts will help to ensure the integrity of the

process by acting as a check against

arbitrariness, perjury and abuse of power. In Open

Court proceedings, any onlooker is entitled to

watch proceedings and report any case that the

Court considers. If that cannot be prevented, can

Courts prevent uploading and publishing of the

judgments online? It is here that the issue of

anonymity related to privacy crops up. The parties

may not have any objection to the uploading of the

judgments by masking the details of the litigants.

There may be a plethora of reasons for a litigant

to prevent disclosure of the names or the content.

That perhaps requires a balancing exercise to be

generally guided by the governing informational

policy of the judiciary. In the research conducted

by VIDHI, they also allude to opposite interests,

juxtaposing the right to information with the

right to privacy. After referring to Article 8 of
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:62:- the Right to Information Act, 2005 the research

admits that a balancing exercise has to be evolved

regarding the right to privacy and that disclosure

of personal information in litigation, is in the

larger public interest. This is the problem and

dilemma in these cases. We cannot ignore the

privacy rights of individuals. We also cannot

ignore the larger public interest of the Court

making judicial function open to all to ensure

public confidence. Section 8(1)(j) of the Right to

Information Act, 2005 exempts disclosure of

information related to personal information which

has no relationship to any public activity or

interest and such information if disclosed would

result in an invasion of the privacy of the

individuals. We have already noted the larger

public interest related to the Open Court system.

The public has every right to know how a judge

conducted a particular case with details of the

parties, contents etc. The digital platform only
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:63:- allows easy access to such information through the

digital space. Nevertheless, it was available to

the public in all respects in the brick-and-mortar

system as well. The mere extension of an Open

Court system in a digital space cannot itself be

called violative of privacy rights, in the absence

of any law laid down in this regard by the

Parliament. Law has already recognised the Open

Court system. 40. Justice Chandrachud in Justice

K.S.Puttaswamy 's case (supra), discussed the

threefold requirement when the right to privacy,

including informational privacy, is restrained. It

reads thus: They emanate from the procedural and content-based mandate
of Article 21. The first requirement that there must be a
law in existence to justify an encroachment on privacy is
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:64:- an express requirement of Article 21. For, no person can be
deprived of his life or personal liberty except in
accordance with the procedure established by law. The
existence of law is an essential requirement. Second, the
requirement of a need, in terms of a legitimate State aim,
ensures that the nature and content of the law which
imposes the restriction falls within the zone of
reasonableness mandated by Article 14 , which is a guarantee
against arbitrary State action. The pursuit of a legitimate
State aim ensures that the law does not suffer from
manifest arbitrariness. Legitimacy, as a postulate,
involves a value judgment. Judicial review does not
reappreciate or second guess the value judgment of the
legislature but is for deciding whether the aim which is
sought to be pursued suffers from palpable or manifest
arbitrariness. The third requirement ensures that the means
which are adopted by the legislature are proportional to
the object and needs sought to be fulfilled by the law.
Proportionality is an essential facet of the guarantee
against arbitrary State action because it ensures that the
nature and quality of the encroachment on the right is not
disproportionate to the purpose of the law. Hence, the
threefold requirement for a valid law arises out of the
mutual interdependence between the fundamental guarantees
against arbitrariness on the one hand and the protection of
life and personal liberty, on the other. The right to
privacy, which is an intrinsic part of the right to life
and liberty, and the freedoms embodied in Part III is
subject to the same restraints which apply to those
freedoms. W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:65:- 41. On the right to privacy written by Samuel D.

Warren; Louis D. Brandeis in Harvard Law Review,

Vol. 4, No. 5. (Dec. 15, 1890), pp. 193-220, the

authors opine that the right to privacy does not

extend to publications made in Court. 2. The right to privacy does not prohibit the communication

of any matter, though in its nature private, when the

publication is made under circumstances which would render

it a privileged communication according to the law of

slander and libel. Under this rule, the right to privacy is not invaded by any
publication made in a court of justice, in legislative
bodies, or the committees of those bodies; in municipal
assemblies, or the committees of such assemblies, or
practically by any communication. made in any other public
body, municipal or parochial, or in any body quasi public,
like the large voluntary associations formed for almost
every purpose of benevolence, business, or other general
interest; and (at least in many jurisdictions) reports of
any such proceedings would in some measure be accorded a
like privilege. Nor would the rule prohibit any publication
made by one in the discharge of some public or private
duty, whether legal or moral, or in conduct of one's own
affairs, in matters where his own interest is concerned.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:66:- 42. Individual privacy rights must yield to the

larger public interest in the absence of any

legislation. The Court has limitations in

balancing interests affecting a class of

individuals and that of public interest. This

exercise has to be done by the Legislature. The

Court, however, may address the fundamental rights

claimed by individuals which might not have a

bearing on the collective goal. The Court cannot

assume the role of the legislature to address a

class and command the law. If the Court attempts

to carry out such an exercise on a notion of

upholding fundamental rights, it would in essence

be encroaching upon the competency of the

legislature to make laws. However, nothing

prevents the Court from adjudicating individual

grievances and balancing such individual

grievances against public interest as referable

under Section 8(1)(j) of the Right To Information

Act, 2005 if such individual rights have reasons
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:67:- to depart. Ronald Dworkin, in his famous book

'Taking Rights Seriously' argues that, "Individual

rights are political trumps held by individuals.

Individuals have rights when, for some reason, a

collective goal is not a sufficient justification

for denying them what they wish, as individuals,

to have or to do, or not a sufficient

justification for imposing some loss or injury

upon them." [See Introduction, pg. xi]. 43. The Madras High Court in Karthick Theodre v.

Registrar General, Madras High Court and Others

[2021 SCC Online Mad 2755], the judgment authored

by Justice N.Anand Venkatesh, considered the issue

of whether an accused, who has been acquitted of

all the charges as against him, had the right to

seek erasure of personal information from the

public domain. The learned Judge opined, at

para.37, as follows: 44. As rightly opined by the learned Judge,

formulation of uniform standards is the job of the

Legislature after evaluating various parameters

and balancing different interests including the

interest of the public. The Courts cannot remain

oblivious to their limitation in formulating

standards to bind different interests. We are,
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:69:- therefore, of the view that the Court cannot

prevent the dissemination of case details in the

public domain citing the privacy of individual

litigants. 45. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in its judgment in

R. Rajagopal alias R.R. Gopal And Another v. State

of T.N. And Others [(1994) 6 SCC 632] held that

the right to privacy does not extend to Court

records and other public records. (1) The right to privacy is implicit in the right to life

and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of this country by Article 21. It is a "right to be let alone". A citizen has

a right to safeguard the privacy of his own, his family,

marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-bearing and

education among other matters. None can publish anything

concerning the above matters without his consent -- whether

truthful or otherwise and whether laudatory or critical. If

he does so, he would be violating the right to privacy of

the person concerned and would be liable in an action for

damages. Position may, however, be different, if a person
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:70:- voluntarily thrusts himself into controversy or voluntarily

invites or raises a controversy. (2) The rule aforesaid is subject to the exception, that

any publication concerning the aforesaid aspects becomes

unobjectionable if such publication is based upon public

records including court records. This is for the reason

that once a matter becomes a matter of public record, the

right to privacy no longer subsists and it becomes a

legitimate subject for comment by press and media among

others. We are, however, of the opinion that in the

interests of decency [ Article 19(2)] an exception must be

carved out to this rule, viz., a female who is the victim

of a sexual assault, kidnap, abduction or a like offence

should not further be subjected to the indignity of her

name and the incident being publicised in press/media. 46. It is true that the judgment in Rajagopal's

case (supra) was rendered much before the

declaration by the Apex Court that the right to

privacy is a fundamental right. However, this

Court cannot ignore the major premise on which the

decision was rendered in Rajagopal's case. In
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:71:- Rajagopal's case, the Apex Court held that

publication based on public records cannot be

objected to on the ground of the right to privacy.

The judicial function is a public function and the

records are treated as public records. Every

litigant approaches the Court knowing fully well

that the details of the case and the details of

the party would form part of the public records. 47. We have already adverted to the nature of the

right to be claimed as the right to be forgotten.

It cannot be claimed in respect of current records

or proceedings before the Court. The right to be

forgotten if claimed in current proceedings would

be an affront to the principle of open justice and

the larger public interest. The 'right to be

forgotten' is contextually related to the past,

and cannot be claimed as a 'right in presentium'.

An individual has every right to live their life

in the moment, erasing the past. This is an
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:72:- essential facet of the right to live with dignity.

Merely as in the past, he has been subject to

accusation of a crime or had been involved in a

crime, shall not haunt him his entire life. The

very idea of a fixed term of imprisonment is to

erase his past and move forward with a new lease

of life, after the sentence. If such an individual

is not allowed to erase his past and control the

information on his person, no doubt, it would

violate his right to live with dignity. However,

the Court cannot make a declaration in current

proceedings, acknowledging the right to be

forgotten to erase data for the current and the

future. That will be against the very essence of

the recognition of the right as a right to be

forgotten. The Apex Court in the privacy judgment

in para.636 of Justice K.S. Puttaswamy 's case

(supra),realising this aspect, put forward as

follows: 48. In individual cases, the Court may, after

adverting to time and space, order the erasure of

past records. However, nothing prevents the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:74:- Legislature from bringing in Legislation

recognizing the right to be forgotten to erase

such records after the expiry of such period as it

deems fit to fix. Further, laying down the grounds

when such a right to be forgotten can be exercised

is the prerogative of the Legislature. As the

right to be forgotten is not an absolute right, it

is crucial that the legislature enumerates the

grounds when an individual can claim this right. Art. 17 of GDPR lays down grounds such as, where

information is no longer necessary, withdrawal of

consent by individuals, unlawful processing of

information etc. The Article reads thus: W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:76:- 3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that
 processing is necessary: d. for archiving purposes in the public interest,
 scientific or historical research purposes or
 statistical purposes in accordance with Article
 89(1) in so far as the right referred to in
 paragraph 1 is likely to render impossible or
 seriously impair the achievement of the
 objectives of that processing; or

 e. for the establishment, exercise or defence of
 legal claims. The legislature alone is competent to enumerate

such grounds and carve out exceptions to the

claims of such a right to be forgotten. The
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:77:- judiciary is not competent to legislate and lay

down legal norms for a class. ANSWERING THE PROBLEMS STATED: It is submitted that due to crawling and indexing,

her client's name appears on the search engine

Google. Learned counsel points out that the moment

the client's name is typed into the search engine,
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:79:- the case details related to him appear. Shri

Jacob Sebastian appearing for another writ

petitioner argued that his client is a well-known

doctor and whenever his name is typed into Google,

a judgment in a bail application and criminal case

appears in the results. These cases are from the

years 2017 and 2018. Similar prayers also have

been made in W.P.(C). No.20387 of 2018 to the

effect of removing names and contents of the case

of the petitioner in the Criminal M.C. filed

before this Court in the year 2013. 50. As adverted to earlier, the right to be

forgotten can be claimed as a right to erase past

memory. The public records relating to the

petitioners who were either accused or parties to

the criminal proceedings cannot be erased forever.

The digital space is a dynamic space allowing

vibrant data to be refreshed without the

constraints of time and space. The boundaries of
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:80:- privacy have no limitations in the digital space.

In the real world, humans have limitations created

by space and time. In the normal course of human

conduct, time will erase memory. This particular

problem in a digital space of allowing information

to remain forever would certainly affect the right

claimed as a right to be forgotten. The internet

has unlimited capacity to remember. The Court

cannot generally balance the interest claimed by

the individuals and the information available in

the digital domain for eternity. The Court, no

doubt, would be able to form an opinion after

adverting to the attending circumstances of a

particular case to order the removal of personal

data or erasure of such data from digital space

after considering the factors relating to such

cases. 51. Thus, we are of the opinion that the claim to

erase or redact personal information based on the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:81:- right to be forgotten, in current proceedings or

proceedings concluded recently is a myth and

cannot be relied on to prevent the uploading of

judgments in the Court Information System.

B. The Right To Privacy Claimed In Matrimonial,

Family, Custody Matters Etc.: 52. The learned Counsel Shri B.G. Harindranath

fairly submitted that the law already recognizes

the right to privacy in matrimonial, family,

custody disputes etc. The counsel placed reliance

on Section 22 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955

which reads thus: (2) If any person prints or publishes any matter in
contravention of the provisions contained in sub-section
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:82:- (1), he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees. 53. The learned counsel also referred to Section

11 of the Family Courts Act, 1984 which reads

thus: W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:83:- 55. Advocate Babu Paul submitted that an office

memorandum has already been issued by the High

Court in relation to matrimonial matters. 56. In family, matrimonial, child custody and

adoption matters, if the legislature had already

intended to protect the privacy of the parties

involved therein, merely for the reason that it

does not exist in other laws related to family,

matrimonial disputes etc, the Court cannot hold

that the protection to the right to privacy does

not exist in such matters. The recognition of the

right to privacy as a fundamental right is of

recent origin in our country. The protection

accorded to privacy in matrimonial, family

disputes, custody and adoption in a slew of

legislations signifies that the open justice

principle is not in contemplation of the

legislature in those matters. The legislature's

wisdom to deny open Court function to the public
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:84:- is essentially a recognition of the protective

rights of the parties in relation to their

privacy. In those circumstances, we are of the

considered view that in matters related to family

disputes, matrimonial disputes, child custody,

invoking writ jurisdiction of this Court, the

Court shall not publish details of the parties to

identify the cause before the Court if the

party/ies desire so. The learned counsel Shri

Vipin V.Varghese appearing for the petitioner in

WPC 6687/2017 submitted that his client approached

this Court seeking a relief invoking writ

jurisdiction to conduct a marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954 which never

materialised in spite of this Court granting

relief to solemnise marriage with the person who

resides in a foreign country under the Special

Marriage Act, 1954 . According to the counsel, the

Google search engine exhibits his client's name

and links the judgment delivered by this Court.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:85:- Though this matter is not directly arising from a

Family Court jurisdiction, taking note of the fact

that the jurisdiction of this Court was invoked to

solemnise the marriage, we are of the view that in

such matters, on request of the parties, the

Registry shall mask the names and details of the

parties, in recognition of the right to privacy in

relation to matrimonial and related affairs. 57. Similarly, it is the case of the writ

petitioner in 2604/2021 that the writ petitioner

had approached this Court on an earlier occasion

in a dispute related to custody. So also is the

claim of the writ petitioner in 12699 of 2021

arising from a family dispute. C. Publishing Judgments By Indian Kanoon And In

Other Online Law Journals: 58. The Case Information System software is a

giant move under the initiative of the e-committee

to make the Indian Judiciary more transparent and
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:86:- more litigant friendly. The CIS versions are

available for District Judiciary and High Courts

exclusively. This Case Information System software

for the District Judiciary is created under the

guidance of the e-committee, Supreme Court of

India through the software team at the National

Informatics Center (NIC), Pune. The whole idea of

CIS, in a nutshell, is that the litigant should be

able to view the daily status of his case, the

orders of the case, hearing dates of his case, the

progress of the case on any particular date etc.

online from any part of the world. [Source e-

committee Of Supreme Court Of India Website Viewed

On 14/12/22] The Judgments are gold mines of data.

In a few of the cases, the challenge is in regard

to permitting the use of Court Information Systems

by technology innovators in the legal domain like

Indian Kanoon. On typing a subject or name of the

parties, one can easily search and find out the

cases they are looking for on the Indian Kanoon
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:87:- website. Indian Kanoon obtains judgments from the

Case Information System of Courts which are

accessible and free of cost. The Courts shall have

no copyright claim over judgments as the same

forms part of public records. Under the Copyright

Act 1957, reproduction for judicial reporting, or

reproduction or publication of judgments are not

infringements of copyright. Indian Kanoon provides

access to different statutes and case laws of

various Courts and the Supreme Court of India,

free of charge. The reliefs sought against Indian

Kanoon are to block the personal data of the

petitioners and also to remove and erase the

disclosure of the identity of some of the

petitioners herein. Though there was resistance

on the side of Indian Kanoon in regard to the

maintainability of the writ petition seeking

prayers against them, we are not considering the

above at this juncture for the simple reason that

substantial relief is sought against the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:88:- publication of the judgment by the High Court on

the websites and the portal, and allowing

Indiankaoon and other publishers to obtain data

from Case Information System. Advocate Santhosh

Mathew, learned counsel appearing for Indian

Kanoon further submitted that the law does not

prohibit the publication of public records and

Indian Kanoon never published judgments with the

personal details of the parties in cases where the

anonymity of parties is protected. He also tried

to distinguish between the right to be forgotten

with the right of erasure. The judgments forming

part of the Court records are public documents as

referable under Section 74 of the Indian Evidence

Act. There cannot be any dispute in regard to

publishing the contents of the judgment even if

such judgments are ordered to be masked in regard

to the details of the parties to protect their

identity. We have already overruled the right to

claim privacy in the public sphere in an Open
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:89:- Court system. The Courtroom is open to all. The

Court cannot gloss over the protection available

to publishers of judgments under Article 19(1)(a) of our Constitution. Reporting and publishing

judgments are part of freedom of speech and

expression and that cannot be taken away lightly

without the aid of law. D. Absence of Judicial Policy or Rules Linking

Judgments Online And In Digital Space: 59. Transparency and informed consent are part of

good governance in administration. Informed

consent in this context postulates that the

litigant is aware that his or her personal details

in the case will be published on the Court

website. The autonomy of a litigant to choose a

public forum or private forum to adjudicate

disputes amenable for private adjudication is not

lost sight of. In private forums, litigants need

not have such worries of publication of judgments
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:90:- in the public domain. The approach of the

judiciary to help litigants be informed about

their case in an easily accessible way though is a

laudable service to them, has its pitfalls. They

have not been informed about the publication of

their case details online with personal

identifications. We have overruled the objections

on the ground of privacy and the right to be

forgotten but that doesn't mean that the judiciary

will have unbridled power over the choices

exercised by a litigant who has approached the

Court seeking justice. The litigant must be put on

notice about the publication of judgments online.

In many jurisdictions where strict personal data

protection laws are in force, they have adopted

such a policy of informed consent. The following

are the details of the privacy notice in the

judiciary in the UK.[See https://www.judiciary.uk/

(viewed on 14/12/2022)]: 60. It is imperative for the judiciary to give

notice of the publication of judgments and about

privacy on its websites to reflect the true

character of a democratic institution. It is also

desirable for the High Court to consider the

constitution of grievance redressal mechanisms and
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:96:- also to appoint an officer to redress grievances

on the administrative side. E. SEARCH ENGINES AND DIGITAL ETERNITY: 61. Google India and Google Global have been made

party to these proceedings. A search engine is a

software programme that helps users find the

information they are looking for online, using

keywords or phrases. The information in the

digital space would remain there forever unless it

is erased using technological tools. The data

available on the internet for eternity is a direct

affront to the right to be forgotten. Google is

one of the providers of search engine. It is

popularly known as Google search. It is reported

that more than 3.5 billion searches per day are

handled by the search engine. It is claimed by

Google that they continuously map the web and

other sources to connect users to provide the most
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:97:- relevant and helpful information. [See Google.com

viewed on 15/12/2022]. 62. The learned Senior Counsel Shri Sajan

Poovayya argued in extenso and submitted that

Google neither discharges a public function nor is

under the State authority. Therefore, no

directions are warranted against them. A detailed

argument has been raised by the counsel stating

that Google LLC., a company incorporated in the US

is not a publisher and only an intermediary. The

learned counsel relied on various judgments

arising from domestic Courts and international

Courts. Pointing out to the judgment in Google

LLC. v. Defteros [(2022) HCA 27] of the Australian

High Court, the counsel submitted that the act of

providing hyperlinks in a search or re-search does

not amount to publication. Therefore, it is

submitted that the Google search engine only

enables the parties to access information that is
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:98:- already available in the public domain. The

learned counsel further argued that the relevant

provisions of Information Technology (Intermediary

Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules,

2021 (hereafter Intermediary Rules) categorically

recognizes and exempts transient and incidental

storage from the ambit of publishing or hosting.

It is submitted that it is the publisher that is

responsible for the content it creates and,

therefore, the direction is to be passed only

against the publishers and not against Google

search. His argument was that intermediaries are

not responsible for the unlawful actions of third

parties. The learned Counsel also raised arguments

on the right to privacy claimed by the petitioner

and submitted that the right to privacy is not an

absolute right but is subject to reasonable

restrictions. He also submitted that the right to

know is an indivisible facet of the Constitution.

The right to privacy claimed cannot result in the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:99:- effacement of public records. The learned counsel

relied on the judgment of the Apex Court in Shreya

Singhal v. Union of India [(2013) 12 SCC 73] and

submitted that intermediaries are not in a

position to determine the legitimacy or veracity

of any claims for removal in the absence of Court

order directing intermediaries to take such

action. The learned Counsel appearing for Google

India submitted that they are neither necessary

nor a proper party in the proceedings as they are

not operating the search engine online. The

learned Central Government Counsel relying on the

Intermediary Rules submitted that Google is an

intermediary and they are also bound by the

Intermediary Rules. He referred to various rules

and the nature of content in the search engine and

submitted that Google would come within the

meaning of an intermediary, as defined in the

Rules. The learned Government Pleader, Shri Kannan

submitted that the High Court is a Court of record
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:100:- and publication of judgments online would only

serve the public interest. 63. We are not called upon here to determine the

responsibility or liability of Google for

publishing judgments online in terms of the

Intermediary Rules. The publication of the

judgments online and allowing the same to remain

online forever may infringe upon the right of a

party based on the right to be forgotten. We have

already adverted to the nature of a right that can

be claimed as a right to be forgotten. If the

judgments of the Court are allowed to remain

online for eternity, certainly, it would invade

such rights of the parties. The problem that has

arisen in the absence of legislation is

determining the period or circumstances under

which a party can invoke the aforesaid right. We

are not remaining oblivious to this fact. A

litigant may in the future, approach this Court to
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:101:- remove online content. In the absence of

legislation, the Court may have to recognise his

right and direct removal of such content available

online on a case-to-case basis. The contention by

the learned counsel for Google that they are only

an intermediary and they are not liable for the

contents or publication of the judgments, no

doubt, the said contention has to be upheld. We

are not here to decide upon compliance or non-

compliance with the Intermediary Rules. The

argument of the learned Central Government Counsel

that Google has to be treated as an intermediary

and therefore has to follow the Intermediary Rules

does not require meritorious consideration in

these cases. We are called upon, in these cases,

to decide on the points involved qua fundamental

rights claimed by the petitioners. Irrespective of

these rules, the State and non-State actors are

bound to respect the fundamental rights of the

citizens. There is no difficulty in identifying
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:102:- Google as a non-State actor by its nature of

function and operation which could have an impact

on the socio, cultural, economic and political

life of the citizen. They are qualified to be

identified as a non-State actor. Even in the OECD

Guidelines for Multi-national Enterprises, guiding

principles on business and human rights, an

enterprise like Google is liable as a non State

actor for human rights violation. Google is

incorporated in the United States of America and

OECD is an intergovernmental organisation of which

US is also a party. The Guidelines aim to promote

positive contributions by enterprises to economic,

environmental and social progress worldwide. [See

OECD Guidelines for Multi-national Enterprises,

2011 Edition]. Further, there is no difficulty in

holding that the claim based on fundamental rights

can be enforced horizontally. However, the

judgments are public records and, making them

available to the public to view through the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:103:- process of a search made online, cannot be found

fault with. At the same time, we cannot hold that

Google is content blind to the publications made

online; can they allow any prohibited nature of

content to appear online? For example, paedophilic

content. An algorithm means a set of procedures

used for solving a problem or performing a

computation. In the era of artificial

intelligence, it is quite possible for Google to

identify the nature of the content and remove the

same. Google is not a mere passive conduit. They

are now using AI tools to identify the needs and

requirements of a user online and attempting to

bring out the best results in what they are

looking for online. Keeping aside the Intermediary

Rules etc., we are of the firm view that Google

cannot claim itself as a mere intermediary,

allowing the contents to appear for the viewers or

users in the digital platform. The publication of

any valid records is protected by the Constitution
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:104:- as forming part of Article 19(1)(a) , the right to

freedom of speech and expression. There is no

difficulty for Google during the era of

advancement of AI to create a tool and identify

particular data and remove the same. If that is

not done, it would really infringe the claim based

on the right to be forgotten. 64. In summation, we hold as follows: 65.(i). W.P. (C) No. 26500 of 2020: The petitioner

was involved in a crime. Thereafter, based on an

order of this Court, the criminal complaint was

quashed as the de facto complainant raised no

objection. We are of the view that this is not a

case where the petitioner can invoke the right to

be forgotten to delete past records. We,

therefore, decline the prayer and dismiss the

petition. 65.(ii). W.P. (C) No. 21917 of 2020: The

petitioner was involved in a crime. His grievance

for removal from the digital domain of his

involvement in a criminal case and of a bail order

obtained by him cannot be acceded to. The writ

petition is, therefore, dismissed.
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:107:- 65.(iii). W.P. (C) No. 8174 of 2020: The matter

pertains to a habeas corpus petition. The

petitioner approached this Court alleging the

detention of her daughter. We do not find any

reason to hold that the personal information shall

not be published online. The writ petition fails,

and is accordingly, dismissed. 65.(iv). W.P. (C) No. 6687 of 2017: The petitioner

approached this Court for solemnising marriage

under the Special Marriage Act . Since the matter

is related to matrimonial and family affairs, and

we have recognised the right to privacy in such

matters, we hold that the petitioner is entitled

to the relief sought. This Court has already

granted interim relief in tune with the final

reliefs sought. We make the interim relief granted

absolute. 65.(v). W.P. (C) No. 7642 of 2020: The petitioner

was involved in a criminal case related to an
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:108:- allegation of rape. This Court had quashed the

proceedings against the petitioner and his father.

We are not inclined to grant reliefs sought for

removal of the judgment in the public domain. The

writ petition fails and is, accordingly,

dismissed. 65.(vi). W.P. (C) No. 20387 of 2018: The

petitioner was involved in a criminal case and

approached this Court for quashing the criminal

case. The petitioner and the de facto complainant

settled. The criminal case was quashed in the year

2013. According to us, the petitioner is not

entitled to the relief sought. Dismissed. 65.(vii). W.P. (C) No. 12699 of 2021: The

petitioner approached this Court earlier in a

Transfer petition related to a matrimonial case.

The petitioner also approached this Court in

regard to a dispute related to passport arising

out of a matrimonial dispute. Considering the
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:109:- nature of the dispute involved, and the

publication of the judgment in the public domain,

we are of the view that a right to privacy would

be invaded. Accordingly, we allow this writ

petition and direct Google LLC to de-index the

names and also direct the Registry to ensure

Indian Kanoon hides the personal information of

the parties online. 65.(viii). W.P. (C) No. 29448 of 2021: The

petitioner was involved in a crime. The

petitioner is aggrieved by the publication of the

order in bail online. In light of our views, Writ

Petition is only to be dismissed. Accordingly

dismissed. 65.(ix). W.P.(C) No. 2604 of 2021: The petitioner

had approached this Court earlier in O.P.

(FC).No.64/2019 to obtain custody of the minor

child. By publication of the judgment online, the

identity and name of the child are revealed. That
 W.P.(C).Nos.26500/2020 & con.cases -:110:- being the case, the petitioner is entitled to

relief in this case. There shall be a direction to

the additional respondent Google LLC to de-index

the judgment in O.P.(FC).No.64/2019 and there

shall also be a direction to the Registry to

ensure that Indian Kanoon redacts the names and

personal information of the parties or removes the

publication of the judgment. 65.(x). The Registrar of the High Court of Kerala

is directed to publish the privacy notice within

two months in both English and Malayalam languages

on the websites of the High Court and the District

Judiciary. All cases stand disposed of as above. No costs. Sd/- A.MUHAMED MUSTAQUE, JUDGE
 Sd/- SHOBA ANNAMMA EAPEN, JUDGE
ms
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 26500/2020 PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 07/09/2016 RENDERED IN CRIMINAL MC
 NO.5477 OF 2016 BY THE HO'BLE HIGH
 COURT. EXHIBIT P2 A TRUE COPY OF SCREEN SHOT WITH
 REFERENCE TO THE PETITIONER'S
 COMMUNICATION WITH THE INDIAN KANOON.
EXHIBIT P3 A TRUE COPY OF THE WEB SITE POLICY OF
 THE 3RD/4TH RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P4 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT RENDERED BY
 HON'BLE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA IN WP
 NO.62038/2016 BY JUDGMENT DATED
 23/1/2017
EXHIBIT P5 TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT OF THE HON'BLE
 HIGH COURT OF ORISSA, CUTTACK IN BLAPL
 NO.4592 OF 2020 DATED 23/11/2020. APPENDIX OF WP(C) 6687/2017

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT IN
 WP(C)NO.23996/2015 DATED 7/8/2015
EXHIBIT P2 TRUE COPY OF THE WEB PAGE.
EXHIBIT P3 TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER SEND TO THE 3RD
 RESPONDENT DATED 12/12/2016
RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT R3(a) TRUE COPY OF THE TERMS OF SERVICE OF
 GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE. APPENDIX OF WP(C) 20387/2018

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXT.P1: TRUE COPY OF ORDER DATED 10.01.2013 IN
 CRL.M.C.NO.100/2013. EXT.P2: TRUE COPY OF ORDER DATED 10.01.2013 IN
 CRL.M.C.NO.109/2013. EXT.P3: TRUE COPY OF REQUESTS MADE BY
 PETITIONER'S FATHER THROUGH THE WEBSITE
 OF 5TH RESPONDENT ALONG WITH THE
 COMMUNICATION OF 5TH RESPONDENT. EXT.P4: TRUE COPY OF GENERAL INFORMATION
 PROVIDED IN THE WEBSITE OF 5TH
 RESPONDENT. EXT.P5: TRUE COPY OF LAWYER DATED 21.03.2018
 CAUSED TO THE 5TH RESPONDENT THROUGH
 THEIR WEBSITE. EXT.P6: TRUE COPY OF REPLY SENT BY 5TH
 RESPONDENT THROUGH E-MAIL. RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
Exhibit R3(A) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR NO. 3/2017 DATED 21/12/20176 ISSUED BY THE
 3RD RESPONDENT
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 7642/2020

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 A TRUE COPY OF THE AFFIDAVIT DATED
 OCTOBER 17, 2017 FILED ON BEHALF OF THE
 VICTIM BEFORE THIS HONOURABLE COURT IN
 BAIL APPLICATION NO. 7123/2017. EXHIBIT P2 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 NOVEMBER 7, 2017 IN BAIL APPLICATION NO.
 7123/2017 OF THIS HONOURABLE COURT AS
 PUBLISHED IN INDIANKANOON. ORG. EXHIBIT P3 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 DECEMBER 5, 2018 IN CRIMINAL M.C. NO.
 4510/2018 OF THIS HONOURABLE COURT AS
 PUBLISHED IN
 HTTPS//SERVICES.ECORUTS.GOV.IN/ECOURTIND
 IAHC/CASES/. EXHIBIT P4 A TRUE COPY OF THE SCREENSHOT OF THE
 GOOGLE SEARCH RESULTS FOR DR. KRISHNA
 MOHAN. EXHIBIT P5 A TRUE COPY OF THE CORRESPONDENCE
 THROUGH EMAIL BETWEEN THE PETITIONER AND
 THE THIRD RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT P6 A TRUE COPY OF THE DISCLAIMER PUBLISHED
 ON INDIANKANOON.ORG TITLED WHY IS MY
 COURT CASE ON INTERNET. EXHIBIT P7 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT RENDERED BY
 HE EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTEST IN GOOGLE
 SPAIN SL, GOOGLE IN C.V. AGENCIA
 ESPANOLA DE PROTECTION DE DATOS (ES),
 MARIO COSTEJA GONZALEZ. APPENDIX OF WP(C) 8174/2020

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT IN WP(CRL.)
 NO.266/2014 DATED 30.06.2014
EXHIBIT P1(A) TRUE COPY OF THE DOWNLOADED JUDGMENT IN
 WP(CRL.) 266/2014 DATED 30.06.2014 AS
 PUBLISHED BY RESPONDENTS 2 AND 3 IN
 THEIR WEB PAGE
EXHIBIT P2 TRUE COY OF THE PRINT OUT OF WEB PAGE OF
 THE 3RD RESPONDENT
RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
Exhibit R3(1) TRUE COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE OF
 INCORPORATION OF THE 3RD RESPONDENT
 DATED 23/07/2014. Exhibit R3(2) TRUE COPY OF THE BOARD RESOLUTION OF THE
 3RD RESPONDENT AUTHORIZING THE DEPONENT
 TO REPRESENT THE 3RD RESPONDENT. Exhibit R3(3) TRUE COPY OF THE REPORT OF THE JOINT
 PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE ON PERSONAL DATA
 PROTECTION BILL, 2019 DATED DECEMBER 16,
 2021. Exhibit R3(4) TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER OF THE HIGH COURT
 OF GUJARAT IN DHARAMRAJ BHANUSHANKAR
 DAVE V., STATE OF GUJARAT, SCA NO.1854
 OF 2015. Exhibit R3(5) TRUE TYPED COPY OF THE CASE REMOVAL
 POLICY OF THE RESPONDENT, WHICH IS
 DISPLAYED ON ITS WEBSITE AT
 HTTPS://INDIANKANOON.ORG/COURT CASE
 ONLINE.HTML
Exhibit R3(6) A TRUE AND CORRECT COPY OF CLAUSE 20 AND
 CLAUSE 63 OF DATA PROTECTION BILL, 2021.
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 21917/2020

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 A TRUE IMAGE OF THE GOOGLE SEARCH
 RESULTS OF NIKHIL S RAJAN AS ON
 20.09.2020. EXHIBIT P2 A TRUE COPY OF THE BAIL ORDER DATED 9TH
 MAY 2014 PASSED BY THE HON'BLE HIGHCOURT
 OF KERALA, IN BAIL APPLICATION NO. 2662
 OF 2014. EXHIBIT P3 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 11.02.2019 PASSED BY THE HON'BLE COURT
 OF THE II ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE,
 KOLLAM. EXHIBIT P4 A TRUE COPY OF THE REPRESENTATION DATED
 22.09.2020 SUBMITTED TO RESPONDENT NO.3.
EXHIBIT P5 A TRUE COPY OF THE REPRESENTATION DATED
 07.10.2020 SUBMITTED TO RESPONDENT NO.1.
EXHIBIT P6 A TRUE COPY OF THE REPRESENTATION DATED
 07.10.2020 SUBMITTED TO RESPONDENT NO.4.
EXHIBIT P7 A TRUE COPY OF THE REPRESENTATION DATED
 07.10.2020 SUBMITTED TO RESPONDENT NO.2.
RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT R3(1): TRUE COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE OF
 INCORPORATION DATED 23/07/2014 ISSUED BY
 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF
 CORPORATE AFFAIRS IN THE NAME OF THE 3RD
 RESPONDENT. EXHIBIT R3(2): TRUE COPY OF THE BOARD RESOLUTION
 APPOINTING MR.SUSHANT SINHA AS THE TRUE
 AND LAWFUL REPRESENTATIVE OF TYE 3RD
 RESPONDENT COMPANY. EXHIBIT R3(3): TRUE COPY OF THE INTRODUCTION OF THE
 JOINT COMMITTEE ON THE PERSONAL DATA
 PROTECTION BILL, 2019. APPENDIX OF WP(C) 21917/2020 -2- EXHIBIT R3(4): TRUE COPUY OF THE CASE REMOVAL POLICY OF
 3RD RESPONDENT WHICH IS DISPLAYED ON ITS
 WEBSITE AT
 HTTPS://INDIANKANOON.ORG/COURT CASE
 ONLINE.HTML. EXHIBIT R3(5): TRUE COPY OF THE CLAUSE 20 AND CLAUSE 62
 OF HE PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION BILL,
 2019. EXHIBIT R3(6): TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER DATED 19/01/2017
 IN SCA NO.1854 OF 2015 OF THE HIGH COURT
 OF GUJARAJ AT AHMADABAD. EXHIBIT R3(7): TRUE COPY OF THE DISCLAIMER POLICY OF
 3RD RESPONDENT WHICH IS DISPLAYED ON ITS
 WEBSITE AT
 HTTPS://INDIANKANOON.ORG/DISCLAIMER.HTML
 . EXHIBIT R3(8): TRUE COPY OF THE EMAIL DATED 30/11/2018
 SENT BY THE PETITIONER AS WELL AS THE
 RESPONSE DATED 30/11/2018 OF RESPONDENT
 NO.3. EXHIBIT R3(9): TRUE COPY OF THE EMAIL DATED 21/12/2019
 SENT BY THE PETITIONER AS WELL AS THE
 RESPONSE DATED 26/12/2019 OF RESPONDENT
 NO.3. EXHIBIT R3(10): TRUE COPY OF THE EMAIL DATED 22/09/2020
 AND REMINDER EMAIL DATED 03/10/2020 SENT
 BY THE PETITIONER'S COUNSEL AS WELL AS
 THE RESPONSE DATED 09/10/2020 OF
 RESPONDENT NO.3. APPENDIX OF WP(C) 2604/2021

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT P1 A TRUE COPY OF THE PAGE OF GOOGLE SEARCH
 WHEN THE PETITIONER'S NAME SEARCHED.
EXHIBIT P2 A TRUE COPY OF THE PAGE OF YAHOO SEARCH
 WHEN THE PETITIONERS NAME IS SEARCHED.
EXHIBIT P3 A TRUE COPY OF THE PAGE OF MICROSOFT
 BING WHEN THE PETITIONERS NAME IS
 SEARCHED. EXHIBIT P4 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 06.02.2019 IN OP(FC) 64/2019. EXHIBIT P5 A TRUE COPY OF THE WEBPAGE OF THE 2ND
 RESPONDENT WITH THE PERSONAL DETAILS OF
 THE PETITIONER ALONG WITH THE JUDGMENT
 IN OP(FC) 64/2019. EXHIBIT P6 A TRUE COPY OF THE WEBPAGE OF THE 3RD
 RESPONDENT WITH THE PERSONAL DETAILS OF
 THE PETITIONER ALONG WITH THE JUDGMENT
 IN OP(FC) 64/2019. EXHIBIT P7 A TRUE COPY OF THE REPRESENTATION DATED
 22.01.2021 ALONG WITH THE POSTAL
 RECEIPT. RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
Exhibit R1(A) TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER DATED 23/04/2019
 SENT BY E-COMMITTEE OF THE HONOURABLE
 SUPREME COURT OF INDIA TO THE HONOURABLE
 THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE HIGH COURT OF
 KERALA
Exhibit R1(B) TRUE COPY OF THE HIGH COURT OFFICE
 MEMORANDUM NO. ECC6/35942/2019 DATED
 18/05/2019
Exhibit R1(C) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR
 NO.3/2017 DATED 21/12/2017 ISSUED BY THE
 HONOURABLE HIGH COURT OF KERALA
Exhibit R1(D) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR NO. 2/2019 DATED 30/09/2019 ISSUED BY THE
 HONOURABLE HIGH COURT OF KERALA,
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 2604/2021 -2- Exhibit R1(E) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR NO. 4/2020 DATED 22/12/2020 ISSUED BY THE
 HONOURABLE HIGH COURT OF KERALA
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 12699/2021

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
Exhibit P1 A TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT IN WPC
 20773/2010 RENDERED BY THIS HONBLE COURT
 DATED 10.8.2010
Exhibit P2 A TRUE COPY OF THE ORDER IN TRPC
 353/2013 DATED 22.7.2014 OF THIS HOBLE
 COURT
Exhibit P3 TRUE COPY OF THE SCREEN SHOT OF THE
 SEARCH RESULTS OF THE 5TH RESPONDENT
Exhibit P4 TRUE COPY OF THE SCREENSHOTS OF THE
 JUDGMENT IN WPC NO 20773 OF 2010 FROM
 THE WEBSITE OF THE 6TH RESPONDENT
Exhibit P5 TRUE COPY OF THE SCREENSHOTS OF THE
 JUDGMENT IN TRPC NO 353 OF 2014 FROM THE
 WEBSITE OF THE 6TH RESPONDENT
Exhibit P6 A TRUE COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION FROM
 THE E-COMMITTEE OF THE HONBLE SUPREME
 COURT OF INDIA TO ALL HIGH COURTS DATED
 16.7.2013
Exhibit P7 TRUE COPY OF THE EXPLANATION OF THE 6TH
 RESPONDENT PUBLISHED ON HIS WEBSITE
RESPONDENT EXHIBITS
Exhibit R2(a) TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER DATED 23/04/2019
Exhibit R2(b) THE TRUE COPY OF THE OM DATED 18/5/2019
Exhibit R2(c) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR
 NO.3/2017 DATED 21.12.2017
Exhibit R2(d) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR
 NO.2/2019 DATED 30.09.2019
Exhibit R2(e) TRUE COPY OF THE OFFICE CIRCULAR
 NO.4/2020 DATED 22/12/2020
 APPENDIX OF WP(C) 29448/2021

PETITIONER EXHIBITS
Exhibit P1 TRUE COPY OF THE JUDGMENT DATED
 16.10.2020 PASSED BY THIS HON'BLE COURT
 IN B.A NO. 6482/2020. Exhibit P2 TRUE COPY OF THE WEB PAGE SHOWN IN
 GOOGLE. Exhibit P3 TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER SEND TO THE 3RD
 RESPONDENT DATED 22.10.2021 BY THE
 PETITIONER.