SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Girl from Northeast India molested and raped by her boyfriend, few other men and a woman.
DATE: 2021-05-27
SCORE: 384
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/nm1fgc/girl_from_northeast_india_molested_and_raped_by/

--- POST TEXT ---

(Trigger Warning: Reader discretion is advised. Don’t read the whole post if you are not up for it. The title must have given the idea. As I couldn’t edit the title, I’m writing this here. This is to make people aware of what is happening as most media are not showing it)

Edit 1: It has come to notice that everyone involved in this case were from Bangladesh and the case happened in Kerala. The accused have been arrested. There was a uproar before the clarification that this happened to a girl from Northeast India but she is from Bangladesh as well. However this doesn’t make it any less gruesome. This needed to come to attention no matter what. Since the title cannot be edited, I’m leaving this here. 

https://www.insidene.com/northeast-girl-brutally-raped-by-4-5-men-and-a-woman-video-surfaces-on-social-media/

A viral video surfaced on social media sites that shows a girl from the northeast reportedly being raped and physically tortured by 4/5 men and a women.
However, it is still unknown where the incident occurred and in which state, who the perpetrators were, and what had driven their heinous act.
The culprits forced a liquor bottle inside the victim’s private part while recording a video, but the most disgusting part is that a woman encouraged such behavior. She even held the victim down.
Although the motive for the act is unknown, the video itself tells a story in which the perpetrators appeared to has nothing to do with sexual satisfaction for anyone but to torture and punish the victim.
The culprits were also spotted on a video call, exchanging visuals with others while abusing the girl.

Furthermore, a woman’s involvement in such a heinous crime has astounded all women and girls in and around the country, who wonder how a woman can cause pain to other woman.
The video shows, while the girl was screaming for help saying “Please do not do this to me, please do not record video… Allaah goes…” one of the culprits covered her mouth with a cloth.
Since the horrible rape case’s video gone viral on social media, netizens have swamped the comment section of each post.
Netizens are demanding justice for the victim and capital punishment for the perpetrators.
Meanwhile, there hasn’t been much coverage of this incident in the national media.
A post on social media claims that the “most disturbing part is that no media is showing this cause the girl is from the northeast.”

“It would have been a national news if the girl would have been from Mumbai or Delhi,” it added.
On the other hand, there are reports relating this viral video incident of the girl from the northeast being raped with the recent Jodhpur suicide case where a Naga girl committed suicide.
However, these two events are different, union sports minister Kiren Rijiju confirmed.
“The viral video of a girl from North-East being brutally raped and tortured by 4 men &amp; 1 women is not related to Jodhpur suicide case. I had a detailed discussion with the Police Commissioner of Jodhpur. However, there must be all out efforts by all State Police to catch the devils,” the minister tweeted.

The Assam has already started an operation to trace down the perpetrators in the viral video.