Ravikumar, J. Whether disciplinary proceedings can be abruptly

terminated at the stage when the employee was only charge sheeted

? Under what circumstances such proceedings can be interfered with,

even if it can be interfered with at that stage ? These and allied

questions crop up for consideration in this original petition directed

against the order dated 18.9.2015 passed by the Central

Administrative Tribunal, Ernakulam Bench in O.A.No.726 of 2015.

Hence, we are of the view that it is only profitable to have the

following prelude for a proper disposal of the original petition:- 2. Before considering the merits of the challenge in this

original petition, based on the aforesaid decision the next question to

be considered is whether there is inviolability to the said general

position ? That was virtually considered by the Apex Court in its later

decision in State of A.P. v. N.Radhakrishnan ((1998) 4 SCC 154). We may hasten to add that the said decision is virtually relied

on by the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner. Paragraph 19

therein is worthy to be extracted in the contextual situation and it

reads thus:- 3. A perusal of the decision in Radhakrishnan's case

would reveal that the Apex Court carved out certain exceptions to the

general position and held that interference is permissible to bring an

end to disciplinary proceedings initiated after an inordinate delay

or where there occurred inexplicable and inordinate delay in

concluding it. Going by the decision, courts have to take into

consideration all the relevant factors and to balance and weigh them

to determine if it would be in the interest of clean and honest

administration to terminate the disciplinary proceedings after long

delay particularly, when the delay is abnormal and there is no O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 5 explanation for the delay. In other words, going by the said decision,

under normal circumstances, disciplinary proceedings should be

allowed to take their course as per the relevant rules and it would not

be possible to lay down any pre-determined principles applicable to all

cases and in all situations where there occurred delay in

initiating/concluding disciplinary proceedings. Evidently, the Apex

Court held that whether on such grounds disciplinary proceedings

could be terminated or not has to be examined based on the facts and

circumstances of each case. It was also held therein that in

considering whether delay had vitiated the disciplinary proceedings

the court has to consider the nature of the charge, its complexity and

on what account the delay had occurred. Shortly stated, going by the

said decision, the fact that there occurred delay in initiation or

conclusion of disciplinary proceedings by itself cannot be a reason to

terminate disciplinary proceedings though it is permissible under

certain rare and specific circumstances. Though the learned Senior

Counsel appearing for the petitioner relied on various other decisions

we are of the firm view that as long as the position settled in

Radhakrishnan's case was not varied by putting a total embargo on

continuation of disciplinary proceedings on the sole ground of long

delay there is no necessity to delve into the contentions based on

such decisions and it will be suffice to consider the rival contentions O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 6 with reference to factual position obtained in this case, in the light of

the decision in Radhakrishnan's case (supra). We will now, revert

to the case on hand. 4. This original petition is filed by the applicant in O.A.No.726

of 2015 on being aggrieved by its dismissal. The petitioner is

presently working as Income Tax Commissioner (Appeals). In the

Original Application he called in question the very initiation of the

disciplinary action against him in respect of incidents allegedly

occurred in the year 2010, more specifically described in the

memorandum dated 17.4.2015 and the statement of imputations of

misconduct under Articles I and II, appended therewith (marked as

Annexure-A1 of Ext.P2) while he was working as Additional Director of

Income Tax (Investigation), Head Quarters, Mumbai. In fact, he

sought for quashment of Annexure-A1 and also of all incidental

proceedings. Before the Tribunal manifold contentions had been

raised by him to mount challenge against Annexure-A1 and his claims

and contentions were stoutly resisted by the learned Central

Government Senior Panel Counsel. The Tribunal appreciated the rival

contentions and evaluated the materials on record and ultimately held

that the Original Application was moved prematurely and it would be

too early for the Tribunal to enter into a finding on any of the aspects

touching the merits of the contentions advanced by the O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 7 applicant/petitioner herein. Consequently, the O.A. was dismissed as

per order dated 18.9.2018. The Tribunal held:- As stated earlier, the petitioner filed the captioned original petition

feeling aggrieved by the said order and seeking to set aside the said

order of termination of disciplinary proceedings initiated under

Annexure-A1 of Ext.P2. 5. We have heard the learned Senior Advocate Shri.Mohan

Parasaran appearing for the petitioner and Sri.Dinesh R Shenoy, the

learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 6. As stated earlier, the petitioner approached the Tribunal

seeking quashment of Annexure-A1 which is the true copy of the

memorandum of charges dated 17.04.2015 and the statement of

imputations of misconduct and all associated proceedings based

thereon. In that context, it is only apt to refer to the two charges

viz., Articles I & II in Annexure-A1 and they read as follows:- O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 8 No such directions in the matter had been issued by
 the then DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai, Smt.Mala Ramakrishnan
 to Shri Shantam Bose. The identity of the informant
 was leaked to Shri Davinder Ahuja and subsequently
 copies of confidential documents contained in the
 interception file were found in the business premises
 of the assessee Shri Davinder Ahuja during the survey
 action on 11.05.2010. By his above actions, Shri Shantam Bose, the
 then (Addl.DIT(HQ) to DGIT(Inv.) Mumbai thus failed
 to maintain absolute integrity and showed lack of
 devotion to duty and exhibited conduct unbecoming of
 a Government servant thereby contravening the
 provisions of Rule 3(1)(i), 3(1)(ii) and 3(1)(iii) of the
 CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964. ARTICLE-II

 That the said Shri Shantam Bose, while
 functioning as Addl. Director of Income-tax (HQ) to
 DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai committed serious misconduct
 and showed lack of integrity by unauthorisedly sharing
 the contents of the informant's letter dated
 30.04.2010 with Shri Davinder Ahuja, the assessee
 through Shri Mohit Kapoor, retired IRS officer. By his above actions, Shri Shantam Bose the
 then Addl. DIT(HQ) to DGIT(Inv.), Mumbai thus failed
 to maintain absolute integrity and showed lack of
 devotion to duty and exhibited conduct unbecoming of
 a Government servant thereby contravening the O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 9 provisions of Rule 3(!)(i), 3(1)(ii) and 3(1)(iii) of the
 CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964." 7. The petitioner raised various grounds in support of his

challenge against Annexure-A1. The core contention of the petitioner

is that there occurred inordinate delay in the matter of initiation of

disciplinary proceedings and on that sole score Annexure-A1 is liable

to be quashed. It is contended that proceedings pursuant to

Annexure-A1, if permitted to continue, would amount to post

decisional hearing and evidently, this contention is founded on

paragraph 23 of Annexure-A1 (in Ext.P2), more particularly, the

following recital therein:- Referring to the said recital, it is contended by learned Senior Counsel

for the petitioner that it is indicative of the fact that the competent

authority had already arrived at a conclusion on the guilt of the

petitioner, the charge sheeted employee and therefore, it would

vitiate Annexure-A1. It is also contended that in such circumstances

no fair and impartial enquiry could be conducted based on Annexure-

A1. In support of these contentions and on various other points

urged he relied on various decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court such

as Khemchand v. Union of India (AIR 1958 SC 300), O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 10 A.R.S.Choudhury v. Union of India (AIR 1956 Cal. 662), Hans

Raj Gupta v. State of Punjab ( 1992 (1) SLR 146 (P&H)),

Punjab National Bank v. Kunj Behari Mishra (( 1998) 7 SCC 84),

P.V.Mahadevan v. MD.T.N.Housing Board (( 2005) 6 SCC 636),

M.V.Bijlani v. Union of India (( 2006) 5 SCC 88), Government of

Tamilnadu v. K.N.Ramamurthy ((1997) 7 SCC 101) & Ranjit

Thakur v. Union of India ((1987) 4 SCC 611). It is also

contended that Annexure-A1 memorandum of charges dated

17.4.2015 is nothing but a replica of the letter dated 30.11.2011 viz.,

Annexure-A10 and it would reflect non-application of mind on the

issue including on the contents of his letter dated 6.2.2012 viz.,

Annexure-A12. He relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

Government of Tamilnadu v. K.N.Ramamurthy ((1997) 7 SCC 101) to contend that the charge sheet is liable to be declared as

invalid on the aforesaid ground. Evidently, the petitioner has also

attributed malice and bias on the third respondent besides contending

that it violates Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. In fact,

all the aforementioned contentions were raised before the Tribunal.

The learned counsel who appeared for respondents 1 and 2 therein

resisted the aforesaid contentions and submitted that the Original

Application was premature. In elaboration of the same, evidently, it

was contended that the petitioner was only charge sheeted and on O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 11 receipt of Annexure-A1 he had not filed his written statement of

defence, but rushed to the Tribunal raising the aforesaid contentions

which could not be gone into at the present stage of disciplinary

proceedings. It was after considering the aforesaid contentions that

the impugned order was passed. Before considering the tenability of

the said contentions with reference to the factual matters it is only

apropos to consider the question whether Annexure-A1 and all

proceedings incidental thereto, invite interference on the ground that

there occurred inordinate delay in the matter of initiation of

disciplinary proceedings on the alleged incidents mentioned under

Articles I and II, in the light of the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court

in N.Radhakrishnan 's case (supra). 8. As a matter of fact, the Tribunal had considered the

contentions raised by the petitioner attributing inordinate delay in the

matter of initiation of disciplinary proceedings against him. After

considering the explanation offered by the respondents for the delay

and also the materials on record, the Tribunal evidently arrived at the

conclusion that there occurred no undue or unexplained delay and the

delay, if any, had occurred only due to the time taken for complying

with the procedural formalities. In short, the Tribunal repelled the

contentions made by the petitioner on the ground of inordinate delay

in initiation of disciplinary proceedings. 9. In the aforesaid circumstances, while considering the

aforesaid question it is only worthy to bear in mind paragraph 19 of

the decision in Radhakrishnan's case (supra), extracted

hereinbefore. The Apex Court held therein that in considering

whether delay had vitiated disciplinary proceedings the court had to

consider the nature of the charge, its complexity and on what account

the delay had occurred. Regarding the nature of the charge, on going

through Annexure-A1, we have no hesitation at all to hold that it is

grave and serious, in fact, very grave and very serious, in nature. We

will elaborate it. As can be seen from Annexure-A1 it pertains to

incidents allegedly occurred when the petitioner was holding the post

of Additional Director of Income Tax (Investigation). He is still in

service. Obviously, at the relevant point of time, the petitioner was

holding a very high post, in fact, a key post in the Income Tax

Department. Going by Article I, while holding such a higher and

responsible post in the Department of Income Tax he abused his

official position, during November, 2009 to May, 2010, to get

possession of certain confidential documents kept in the file of Air

Intelligence Unit (AIU), Mumbai concerning one Shri.Davinder Ahuja

who was intercepted at Zahar Airport on 26.9.2009, with the intention

of obtaining identity of the informant. Going by the imputation, the

identity of the informant was leaked to the assessee Shri.Davinder O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 13 Ahuja and subsequently copies of confidential documents contained in

the interception file were found in the business premises of

Shri.Davinder Ahuja during the survey action on 11.5.2010. Going by

Article II in Annexure-A1, the petitioner had committed serious

misconduct and showed lack of integrity by unauthorisedly sharing

the contents of the informant's letter dated 30.4.2010 with

Shri.Davinder Ahuja, the assessee through Shri.Mohit Kapoor, a

retired IRS officer. Thus, it is evident that against the petitioner who

was holding a higher and responsible post in the department the

imputation levelled is that he was instrumental to the leakage of

identity of the informant as also the contents of the informant's letter

dated 30.4.2010 to the assessee concerned viz., Shri.Davinder Ahuja.

Going by Article I in Annexure-A1 (see para 4 of Article I) the

informant had informed that the said Davinder Ahuja had threatened

him with dire consequences for providing information about his off-

shore accounts to the investigation wing and that at that point of time

the source of leakage was not known. It is taking into account the

imputation, the post held by the petitioner and the department in

which he held that post, the consequences including the damage to

the reputation of the department and host of other factors that, we

made the aforesaid observation. In short, we got no doubt in our

mind that the nature of misconduct alleged against the petitioner is O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 14 very grave and very serious, in nature. 10. Going by paragraph 4 of Article I in Annexure-A1 the

department was informed by the informant concerned that the

information provided by him to the department had been leaked to

Shri.Davinder Ahuja, the assessee who was intercepted on 26.9.2009

and thereupon, Davinder Ahuja had been threatening him with dire

consequences for providing information about his off-shore accounts

to the investigation wing and further that at that point of time the

source of leakage was not known. When that be so, it is evident that

the genesis of the present proceedings is the leakage of information

regarding the identity of the informant to the assessee concerned and

also the action in unauthorised sharing of the contents of informant's

letter dated 30.4.2010 with Shri.Davinder Ahuja, the assessee,

through Shri.Mohit Kapoor, a retired IRS officer. It is pertinent to note

at this juncture that at the initial stage the source of leakage was

absolutely unknown. Taking into account the serious nature of the

imputation as mentioned hereinbefore, hurried steps were not

resorted to and in fact, such steps could not have been initiated when

the source itself was unknown as they could be initiated only on

finding involvement of any of the officers of the department in that

matter. The fact that the identity of the informant was leaked itself is

sufficient to spoil the reputation of the department and therefore, O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 15 when cautious approach was taken to identify the delinquent and if

delay had occurred in that matter it cannot be a matter and reason

for stifling proceedings initiated subsequently, especially when the

preliminary inquiry prima facie reveals the involvement of a higher

officer in such a matter. In short, considering the complexity of the

issue, especially at the initial stage and the nature of the imputation

and the aforesaid factors we are also of the view that those aspects

also have to be taken into consideration when such matters and

aspects were offered as explanation for the delay. 11. The case of the petitioner is that though such aspects

are exponible by the department they had failed to give satisfactory

explanation for the long delay. Therefore, the question is whether

there is inordinate delay and if so, whether the official respondents

offered explanation for the delay. The learned counsel appearing for

the respondents submitted that the delay was explained in the

additional counter affidavit dated 18.1.2018. It is submitted that

after explaining the aforesaid aspects in paragraph 3 it is stated that

time was taken to follow the procedures. In paragraph 3 therein it is

stated thus:- ix. After examining the report of the DIT(Vig.), West
 Zone, Chairman, CBDT has given approval on
 15/12/2014 to refer the matter to CVC for first state
 advice. x. The CVC after examining the issue, vide its OM
 No.014/TTX/049/274955 dated 10/2/2015 had
 advised for initiation of major penalty against Shri
 Shantam Bose, CIT. xi. The advice of the CVC was examined by DA, who
 after considering the entire fact on record, has given
 approval for initiation of major penalty proceedings O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 17 against Shri Shantam Bose, CIT and also approved
 the draft charge sheet dated 8/4/2015. xii. Charge sheet dated 17/4/2015 was issued to Shri
 Shantam Bose." 12. We have already taken note of the fact that the source

of leakage of information regarding the identity of the informant was

unknown at the initial stage and considering the nature of the

complaint we do not think it proper to put blame on the department

for having proceeded with the matter carefully and cautiously. The

identity of the informant from the officials of the department in the

higher level if leaked to public it will certainly dissuade persons from

passing on informations to the department and in such circumstances,

it would definitely hamper the smooth and effective functioning of the

department. Therefore, a cautious and careful approach in the matter

was inevitable to begin with. While taking into consideration the fact

that complaint was not only about leakage of information regarding

the identity of the informant to the assessee but also with respect to

the subsequent threat to the life of the informant from the assessee,

and also about the leakage of the contents of the informant's letter to

the assessee concerned, we are of the view that the time taken for

identifying the delinquent and then arriving at a prima facie

conclusion regarding the nature of his involvement cannot be taken as

vital and fatal so as to cause prejudice to the delinquent employee or O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 18 to hold that despite such situation the delay should be taken as

sufficient to stifle the proceedings abruptly. In short, in such

circumstances and taking into account the period of alleged delay the

explanation cannot be said to be unsatisfactory and in fact, in the

circumstances obtained in this case, it cannot be taken that there

occurred inordinate delay. So also, in the circumstances, we do not

find any reason to hold that the authorities were not serious in

initiating disciplinary proceedings or in pursuing with the charges

against the petitioner. The delay occurring in the matter of conduct of

disciplinary proceedings since the filing of the Original Application

cannot be a reason available to the petitioner to contend against the

continuation of the disciplinary proceedings initiated under Annexure-

A1. In short, on the ground of delay the disciplinary proceedings

initiated against the petitioner invite no interference. 13. Now, we will proceed to consider whether the

disciplinary proceedings based on Annexure-A1 invites interference

and an abrupt termination on any other ground. As noticed

hereinbefore, in view of what is stated in paragraph 23 of Annexure-

A1 it is contended by the petitioner that they would go to show that

the authority concerned had already arrived at the conclusion that the

petitioner is guilty of the charges levelled against him. According to

the petitioner, in such circumstances, continuance of disciplinary O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 19 proceedings would tantamount to post decisional hearing and at any

rate, its continuance would be a farce. Evidently, the contention is

founded on certain recitals in paragraph 23, as extracted

hereinbefore. But, for the fitness of things, at the risk of the

petitioner, we are referring to the relevant recitals and they read thus:- Relying on the decision in Hans Raj Gupta v. State of Punjab (1992 (1) SLR 146 (P&H)), it is contended by the learned Senior

Counsel that the proposed enquiry would be a farce owing to the

above specific finding of guilt against the petitioner in Annexure-A1

articles of charge. 14. A perusal of the impugned order would reveal that the

above contention was considered in detail by the Tribunal. On such

scanning, virtually, the Tribunal arrived at the conclusion that the

contention is bereft of any basis as such imputations were

incorporated in the articles of charge only to explain the offending

acts allegedly committed by the petitioner. It is only to make the O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 20 imputation specific and clear that it was so stated therein. The

Tribunal further observed that an incorrect use of words in such a

manner cannot be taken as a final conclusion of the authority on the

allegation made in Annexure-A1 charge. The Tribunal also observed

that virtually, such imputation was made so as to enable the charge

sheeted officer to understand and defend the charges properly.

Assigning such reasons the Tribunal declined to uphold the aforesaid

contention. In such circumstances, the question is whether the

contention of the petitioner that continuance of disciplinary

proceedings would tantamount to a post decisional hearing and it

would also be a farce, can be sustained. We have already referred to

the relevant recital in paragraph 23 of Annexure-A1 that persuaded

the petitioner to raise such a contention. While considering the

tenability of the said contention it is only apropos to refer to certain

other aspects which may also be relevant for considering certain other

contentions of the petitioner. Evidently, a preliminary enquiry was

conducted and certain materials were collected for the purpose of

identifying the officer connected to the issue in question and also to

decide whether disciplinary action need be initiated against the erring

officer. In the case on hand, in view of various aspects which we have

already dealt with, we are of the considered view that the

respondents were perfectly justified in conducting a preliminary O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 21 enquiry in that regard. As noticed hereinbefore, on obtaining the

complaint of the informant, a preliminary enquiry became highly

necessary since it was not known, at that point of time, as to who was

the officer involved in the issue of leakage of the information passed

on by the informant to the department as also the identity of the

informant, to the assessee concerned. It is only after the preliminary

enquiry such aspects were unearthed and Annexure-A1 itself would

reveal that it contained a list of 28 documents to be used, to bring

home the charge levelled against the petitioner. A number of persons

are also proposed to be examined. There can be no doubt those

documents are to be brought on record, in accordance with law,

before considering how many of them are relevant and admissible for

the purpose of the enquiry and the evidence of witnesses are also to

be appreciated. In such circumstances, the use of such words in the

articles of charge can only be taken as nothing but an imputation

which is sought to be proved against the petitioner in the disciplinary

proceedings and at any rate, as held by the Tribunal, merely because

the imputation was unhappily worded as above, cannot be a reason to

hold that already a conclusion was arrived at by the authority

regarding the guilt of the petitioner. So long as they are not vague,

the imputation therein could be a subject matter for the enquiry. The

very purpose of a detailed enquiry is to find out the correctness or O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 22 otherwise of such imputations raised based on the preliminary

enquiry, with the participation of the delinquent officer in accordance

with the prescribed procedures. Whether all the materials collected

during the preliminary enquiry are admissible and acceptable for the

purpose of proving the alleged misconduct can only be decided in the

final enquiry. In such circumstances, taking note of the objectionable

part of the recital in paragraph 23 as referred hereinbefore, we do not

find any reason to disagree with the conclusions arrived at by the

Tribunal that they are nothing but imputations, the verity or otherwise

of it could be proved only at the final enquiry. At any rate, merely

because the imputations are couched in such a manner in paragraph

23, that by itself cannot be a reason to terminate the proceedings

abruptly. Still, as an abundant caution we make it clear that those

extracted recital shall not be taken as conclusions against the

petitioner and they shall be regarded only as prima facie view for the

purpose of initiation of disciplinary proceedings and sought to be

proved against the petitioner at the enquiry. We are also of the view

that the Tribunal has rightly analysed the applicability of the decision

of the Apex Court in Hans Raj Gupta 's case (supra) and arrived at

the rightful conclusion that in the case on hand the said decision is

not applicable in view of the factual position obtained as mentioned

hereinbefore. 15. A careful consideration of the pleadings of the

petitioner and the arguments advanced would reveal that the

petitioner is also attempting to establish that the charges levelled

against him are baseless. The petitioner also attributes malice and

bias on the third respondent. Evidently, such contentions were also

raised before the Tribunal. Nonetheless, the Tribunal declined to go

into such questions holding that it would be too early or premature for

the Tribunal to judge the correctness or otherwise of the charge or the

events which led to the framing of the charge against the petitioner.

After going through the charges under Articles I and II the Tribunal

held that they are very serious. We have already held that the

charges levelled against the petitioner are very serious. It is taking

note of the fact that they pertain to leakage of information regarding

the identity of the informant as also the details of the information

passed on by the informant to the assessee from a higher officer of

the department coupled with the case of the complainant- informant

that the leakage of such aspects led to threat to his life that we

opined that the charges levelled against the petitioner are very

serious. We may hasten to add that we shall not be understood to

have held that the petitioner is responsible for the same or that he

has actually committed the offending acts levelled against him.

Certainly, as observed by the Tribunal, they are matters of enquiry. O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 24 However, we are clear in our mind that such serious allegations are

not only matters worthy to be enquired into but are matters which

could not go unenquired with all seriousness, for the maintenance of

clear and honest administration. Recurrence of such incidents would

certainly malign the credibility of the department and they could be

curbed only by finding out the verity of the allegations in disciplinary

proceedings conducted in accordance with law and by handing over

comeuppance, in case they are proved against the charge sheeted

officer. 16. After the initiation of proceedings the petitioner was

promoted to the post of Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) as per

order dated 12.1.2012. According to him, the factum of his

promotion to higher post is indicative of the fact that the official

respondents are not considering the charges levelled against him as

grave enough to warrant imposition of a penalty of withholding of

promotion, even in case they are proved. In fact, a contention on the

aforesaid lines is taken up in paragraph 13 of the Original Petition.

We are not inclined to accept the said contention. Granting such a

promotion cannot be taken as an indicative of the opinion of the

competent authority that even in case the charges levelled against

him under Annexure-A1 are proved they would not call for imposition

of penalty of withholding the promotion. The stage of deciding the O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 25 question of quantum of penalty would reach, in respect of serious

charges, only after conclusion of enquiry, subject to its outcome,

consideration of the same by the disciplinary authority and also after

receiving the explanation of the delinquent officer on being served

with the copy of the enquiry report. At any rate, it cannot be pre-

determined in a case of this nature. Various factors may waive with

the authorities in granting such promotion pending the disciplinary

proceedings. In the case on hand, the materials on record would

reveal that even Annexure-A10 was actually served on the petitioner

only on 5.7.2012 and he was granted 15 days from the date of receipt

of the same to give his version on the issue. As noticed hereinbefore,

the petitioner replied through Annexure-A12 and in Annexure-A12 he

had craved leave to amend Annexure-A12, or add other items of

information and documents in case it is required to give his version of

events and facts in a better manner. In such circumstances, if

promotion was granted to him on 12.1.2012, in spite of the issues

involved, that by itself is no reason to canvass the position that it was

granted to him based on such a conclusion/opinion that even in case

he is to be punished based on the outcome of the disciplinary

proceedings imposition of penalty of withholding the promotion is not

warranted. The petitioner is fortunate to obtain such a promotion

after the initiation of disciplinary proceedings under Annexure-A1. O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 26 Certainly, that cannot be a reason to raise a contention as aforesaid.

Even according to the understanding of the said situation by the

petitioner, his case is only that the first respondent is not considering

the charge as grave enough to warrant withholding of petitioner's

promotion. Hence, he cannot canvass the position that disciplinary

proceedings initiated under Annexure-A1 should be discontinued

abruptly, for that reason. 17. A scanning of the contentions raised in the original

petition as also the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner

would reveal an attempt on the part of the petitioner to assail the

sustainability of the charges on merits, to certain extent. According

to the petitioner, the charges contained only ill-founded allegations.

We have no hesitation to hold that the Tribunal had very rightly held

that it would be too early, in other words premature, to go into such

aspects and essentially, the hollowness or otherwise of the allegations

could be found out only in appropriately conducted disciplinary

proceedings. At any rate, based on the said fact the petitioner cannot

claim for quashment of Annexure-A1 memorandum of charges. 18. The question whether Annexure-A1 charge sheet is to

be quashed or not was considered by the Tribunal with reference to a

catena of decisions, as can be seen from the impugned order.

According to us, the Tribunal has rightly referred to the decision of the O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 27 Apex Court in State of Orissa & Anr. v. Sangram Keshari Misra &

Anr. ((2010) 13 SCC 311) to decide on that issue. The Apex Court

held therein that normally, a charge sheet could not be quashed prior

to the conclusion of the enquiry on the ground that facts stated in the

charge are erroneous. Correctness or truthfulness of the charge is a

matter to be found out by the disciplinary authority. The Tribunal also

referred to the decision of the Apex Court in Union of India & Ors v.

Upendra Singh ((1994) 3 SCC 357) to support its view. After

referring to certain other decisions as well, evidently, the Tribunal

opined that in a case where charge sheet is issued without jurisdiction

or that it is wholly illegal it could be interfered with. At the same

breath, evidently, the Tribunal held that in the case on hand

Annexure-A1 is not attacked on the ground that it was issued without

jurisdiction and that it was wholly illegal. Annexure-A1 is only the

rightful conclusions arrived at based on the binding judicial

pronouncements and in view of the factual situation obtained in this

case. In view of our finding that the charges levelled against the

petitioner under Annexure-A1 are very serious and there is no

inordinate or unexplained delay in initiation of disciplinary

proceedings and also that the allegations are of such nature that they

call for an enquiry, we are of the considered view that adverting to

the contentions touching the merits of the issue and making any O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 28 observation may ultimately prove prejudicial to the petitioner. Hence,

we are refraining ourselves from doing so. The upshot of the discussion as above, is to the effect that

we do not find any compelling reason to interfere with the order

passed by the Tribunal in O.A.No.726 of 2015 and to bring about an

abrupt termination of disciplinary proceedings by setting aside

Annexure-A1 and incidental proceedings. At the same time, we are of

the view that no further delay can be brooked in the matter of

disciplinary proceedings initiated under Annexure-A1 and hence, it

shall be concluded as expeditiously as possible, at any rate, within a

period of six months from the date of receipt of a copy of this

judgment. The petitioner shall also co-operate with the authorities to

complete the said proceedings within the above stipulated period. In

view of the reasons mentioned hereinbefore, the Original Petition

lacks merits and accordingly, it is dismissed. Sd/- C.T.RAVIKUMAR
 Judge

 Sd/- V.G.ARUN
 Judge
TKS O.P.(CAT)No.205 of 2015 29 APPENDIX
PETITIONER'S EXHIBITS: EXHIBIT P3(a) TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER F.NO.CIT(DR)/KOC/
 PERS.2015-16 DATED 4.11.2015. EXHIBIT P3(b) TRUE COPY OF THE LETTER F.NO.CIT(DR)/KOC/
 PERS./ 2015-16 DATED 29.7.2015. EXHIBIT P4 PHOTOSTAT COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION DATED
 28.01.2016. EXHIBIT P5 PHOTOSTAT COPY OF THE REPLY DATED 2.3.2016.

EXHIBIT P6 PHOTOSTAT COPY OF THE DOCUMENTS/STATEMENTS
 CONVEYED TO THE PETITIONER VIDE THE LETTER
 DATED 14TH OF MARCH 2017. EXHIBIT P7 PHOTOSTAT COPY OF THE SEARCH AND SEIZURE
 MANUAL 2007. TKS