SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What are some common scams everyone should be aware of?
DATE: 2021-05-06
SCORE: 49
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/n5ys7k/what_are_some_common_scams_everyone_should_be/

--- POST TEXT ---

I’m preparing to make a giant infographic about scams to be wary of but it seems like the r/scams sub generally relates to the Western experience and they face different scams than we normally do. I’ll start with a few my friends/family have faced: 

1) Request Money Scam 

If someone requests money on GPay, PhonePe or Paytm to “authorize the transaction” when they’re the ones who are supposed to send you money, it’s 100% a scam and they’re not going to refund it like they’ve claimed. 

2) Asking for your OTP on phone call 

This should be obvious, but my sister’s boyfriend was victim of this. He called up some alcohol specialty store he found on the internet which claimed to have a rare wine in stock. He talked to them on the phone and they seemed knowledgable about the field. Then they demanded payment before they could send it to him. That’s already fishy in itself, but there’s more. While on call with him, they took his card details and sent him an OP, but instead of the transaction amount (10,000) they took out something like 60k. When you’re on call and you receive an OTP, you’re only told the code and not the amount (because the notification is abridged). Then they said there’s a mistake and he has to authorize another transaction, so they took out 60k more. They tried it a third time and would’ve succeeded if the bank didn’t block the last transaction. 

3) A guy claiming that his wife just went into labour and if you can spare him some cash 

So this happened to me last year, but I didn’t realize it was a scam until I read a variation of it on the r/scam sub (it’s apparently a worldwide thing). A man you’re having some commercial interaction with (normally a taxi driver, in my case a Zomato delivery guy) will tell you that his wife has just gone into labour at the hospital and if you can spare him any money. You feel overwhelmed at being part of such an experience, so you give him some money (I gave 400). Don’t do that, it’s a really, really old scam. Wish him good luck and be on your way. 

4) Phishing scam 

This has luckily not happened to anyone I personally know but is probably one of the most dangerous scams there is. You’ll get an email from a supposedly legit source, asking you to verify your account details (name, DOB, Aadhar number and stuff) if you want to continue using your account. You’ll give them all the details. Using those, they can gain access to your email account, change all the passwords to your other online accounts, use them for fraudulent activity (eg using your FB account to ask your friends and family to send cash). They can also contact your bank pretending to be you (providing your details) and ask them to block your SIM and issue a new one. Once they have that new sim, they can change your banking accounts passwords and transfer themselves your entire account. Be very, very wary of this. 

5) This goes without saying, but anyone “occult” pretending to know your future 

I respect everyone’s religious beliefs, but it’s very possible for you to be duped by supposed fortune tellers. When I was a kid, my parents hired a pair who came to our house. One of them sat between all the adults. The other one sat next to me, on the far side of the our kinda huge drawing room. The one next to me would (inconspicuously, while all the adults were distracted) ask me stuff about my family. How many siblings my parents have, how many cousins, when they were born, their birth order, etc. Now, the guy next to all the adults would “reveal” a lot of things to them that he supposedly had no way of knowing, such as how many siblings my parents had, how much younger they were, what kind of professions they were in, etc. They were completely vowed and believed fully in his supernatural abilities. Then he read some bogus fortune about how we’ll all have some great times, and my parents were so happy they gave him loads of cash. It was only when they talked to me did they realize that both of them were communicating somehow, which is how the one reading the fortune knew so much about my family’s life. BTW, one fortune teller told my mom when I was a baby that because my earlobe was shaped just like Indira Gandhi’s, I would one day end up in her seat. I’m 23 now, and physically disgusted by politics, so make of that what you may.