Instant petition has been filed under Section 439 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure, 1973 for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in case bearing

FIR No.402, dated 04.08.2021 under Sections 420 , 506 & 120-B of the Indian

Penal Code, 1860 and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000

registered at Police Station Civil Lines Karnal, District Karnal. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner inter alia

contends that the FIR in question has been registered at the instance of

complainant Bishambar Dass, who retired as SDO from the Irrigation

Department. It has been alleged by him that he had received a friend request from

a girl named Mahi and he accepted the same. The said girl sought the WhatsApp

number of the complainant, whereupon the complainant received a video call, in

which the said girl was talking to him in nude condition. The said girl demanded a

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 30-05-2022 23:33:01 ::: CRM-M-22474-2022 (O&M) -2 - sum of Rs.11,000/- from the complainant. The complainant claims to have

disconnected the said call and blocked the said number. He claims to have

received yet another call from an unknown person and the caller asked the

complainant to deposit a sum of Rs.25,500/-, failing which they threatened to

upload the video on YouTube. In order to save his own honour, the complainant

deposited various sums of money totalling an amount of Rs.10,26,500/-. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner is not

named in the FIR in question and no money has ever been demanded by the

petitioner from the complainant. The main accused persons in the instant case are

one Mohd. Arif and one Mohd. Kasim alongwith the alleged girl, who introduced

herself as Mahi. It is submitted that the said accused persons had sought papers of

the petitioner on the pretext of securing a Govt. Job for them and had opened a

bank account in his name in which a sum of Rs.3,50,000/- was deposited. He

submits that the petitioner never withdrew any money from the said account. It is

pointed out that the petitioner was working as a Waiter and had come in contact

with the main accused Mohd. Arif and Mohd. Kasim and he fell in the trap of the

said main accused persons for the sake of brighter prospects and for securing a

Government Job for him. It is further argued that the petitioner is in custody since

10.02.2022 and he is no longer required for the purposes of investigation of the

case as no recovery has to be effected from the petitioner. Mr. Ashish Yadav, Additional AG Haryana does not controvert the

said facts. However, it is pointed out by him that main accused Mohd. Arif and

Mohd. Kasim have not been arrested so far. He further submits that the petitioner

had received a sum of Rs.8,000/- for giving his documents to the co-accused

persons to operate the entire scam. It is however not disputed that the amount so

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 30-05-2022 23:33:02 ::: CRM-M-22474-2022 (O&M) -3 - transferred in the bank account opened in the name of the petitioner was never

withdrawn by him and that the only benefit obtained by him was the sum of

Rs.8,000/-. It is also not disputed that the petitioner is in custody since 10.02.2022

and that even though the investigation in the case is already complete, charge has

not been framed so far. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have gone through

the documents appended with the petition. The failure on the part of the investigating agency to arrest other co-

accused cannot be cited as a valid ground for declining the concession of bail to

the accused, who are already in custody. Besides, the investigation with respect to

the petitioner is already complete and nothing is to be recovered from him. It is

also not disputed that no amount was demanded by the petitioner from the

complainant and that the amount transferred in the account opened in the name of

the petitioner was never withdrawn. It is apparently a case of honey-trap, wherein

the petitioner himself fell in the trap of the masterminds namely Mohd. Arif and

Mohd.Kasim. Therefore, taking into consideration the circumstances noticed above,

period of custody, stage of trial and also the fact that the conclusion of the trial

shall take a long time, I deem it appropriate to allow the instant petition. Accordingly, the present petition is allowed and the petitioner is

admitted on regular bail subject to their furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the

satisfaction of Trial Court/Duty Magistrate, concerned. It is made clear that the petitioner will not extend any threat and will

not influence any prosecution witnesses in any manner directly or indirectly. The observation made hereinabove shall not be construed as an

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 30-05-2022 23:33:02 ::: CRM-M-22474-2022 (O&M) -4 - expression on the merits of the case and the Trial Court shall decide the case on

the basis of available material.