2025:HHC:5590

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 Cr. Appeal Nos. 449 and 450 of 2011
 Reserved on: 28.02.2025
 Date of Decision: 11.03.2025 1. Cr. Appeal No.449 of 2011

 Ashok Kumar. ...Appellant
 Versus
 State of Himachal Pradesh

 ...Respondent 2. Cr. Appeal No. 450 of 2011

 Bimla Devi

 ...Appellant
 Versus
 State of H.P.

 ...Respondent

Coram
Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.

Whether approved for reporting? Yes

For the appellant Ms. Sheetal Vyas, Advocate in
 both the appeals. For the respondent/State Mr. Jitender Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General in both the
 appeals

For the complainant Mr. Sanjay Jaswal, Advocate, in
 both the appeals. ____________

Whether reporters of the local papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes 2 Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present appeals are directed against the judgment

 and order dated 11.11.2011, passed by learned Sessions Judge,

 Hamirpur, H.P. (learned Trial Court), vide which the

 appellants in both the appeals (accused before the learned

 Trial Court), were convicted of the commission of offences

 punishable under Sections 498-A and Section 306 of Indian

 Penal Code ( IPC ) and were sentenced to undergo rigorous

 imprisonment for one year each, pay a fine of ₹5000/- each

 and in default of payment of fine to undergo imprisonment

 for three months each for the commission of an offence

 punishable under Section 498-A of IPC. They were also

 sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for three years each,

 pay a fine of ₹10,000/- each and in default of payment of

 the fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months

 each for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 306 of IPC. It was also ordered that the sentence of

 imprisonment on both counts shall run concurrently. (The

 parties shall hereinafter be referred to in the same manner as 3 they were arrayed before the learned Trial Court for

convenience). 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

appeals are that the police presented a challan against the

accused for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. It was

asserted that Shashi Bala (since deceased) was married to

accused Ashok Kumar in January 2007 as per Hindu rites and

customs. One daughter and one son were born to her and

accused Ashok Kumar. The deceased used to visit the house

of the informant Raghunath Singh (PW-3) and inform his

wife about the beating given to her in her matrimonial home

by the accused for bringing insufficient dowry. The parents

of the deceased were residing in Surat. The deceased Shashi

Bala visited the house of the informant in the first week of

May. She resided in his house for ten days. She told Urmila

Devi, wife of the informant and Sikendra Devi (PW-5) about

the harassment and demand for dowry. She also informed

them that the accused had given the articles provided to the

deceased at the time of her marriage to her sister-in-law. 4 Sashi Bala had an injury in her ear and she revealed that she

had sustained this injury due to the beating given by the

accused. The informant was told on 01.06.2010 at about

1:20 p.m. that Sashi Bala had consumed poison. She was

taken to Hospital. A telephone message was given to the

police. SI Ashwani Kumar (PW-10), ASI Onkar Singh

(PW-8), HC Gulshan and LHHG Poonam went to CHC

Nadaun to verify the correctness of the information. An

entry (Ext.PW-10/A) was recorded in the Police Station

Nadaun. The statement of the informant (Ext.PW-3/A) was

recorded and sent to the Police Station where F.I.R.

(Ext.PW-11/A) was registered. An Application (Ext.PW-1/A)

was written to seek the opinion of the Medical Officer

regarding the fitness of Sashi Bala to make a statement. Dr

B.S. Rana (PW-1) found that Sashi Bala was restless and

disoriented. She was unable to make the statement. He

certified this fact on the application itself. He issued MLC

(Ext.PW1/B) and sent her to RPGMC, Tanda for further

management. Sashi Bala died on the way to the Hospital.

The inquest on the dead body was conducted and the inquest

report (Ext.PW-2/B) was issued. An application was filed for 5 the post-mortem examination of the deceased. Dr Shalini

Kapoor (PW-2) and Dr H. Singh conducted the post-mortem

examination of the deceased. They found a bruise on the

left T&M joint measuring 6 X 5cms. There were no other

injuries. Viscera was preserved and handed over to the police

official accompanying the deceased along with the

belongings of the deceased. The viscera was sent to RFSL,

Mandi at Gutkar and as per the report of RFSL, Mandi

(Ext.PW-2/E), Phosphine gas (Phosphide) was detected in

the viscera. A final opinion Ext.PW-2/F was issued stating

that the deceased had died due to asphyxia caused by

Pulmonary oedema due to phosphine gas poisoning. SI

Ashwani Kumar (PW-10) recorded the statements of

witnesses as per their version. After the completion of the

investigation, the challan was prepared and presented

before the learned Judicial Magistrate, Nadaun, District

Hamirpur, H.P, who committed it to the learned Sessions

Judge, Hamipur, H.P for trial. 3. Learned Trial Court charged the accused with the

commission of offences punishable under Sections 306 and 6 498-A of IPC read with Section 34 of IPC to which the

accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 4. The prosecution examined 11 witnesses to prove

its case. Dr. B.S. Rana (PW-1) conducted the initial medical

examination of the deceased. Dr. Shalini Kapoor (PW-2),

conducted the post-mortem examination of the deceased.

Raghunath Singh (PW-3) is the informant. Virender Singh

(PW-4) is the uncle of the deceased. Sikendra Devi (PW-5) is

the aunt of the deceased to whom the deceased narrated the

incident of beating and harassment. Hardev Singh (PW-6) is

the father of the deceased, who deposed about the demand

for dowry and payment of ₹1,00,000/- on two different

occasions. Constable Rajiv Kumar (PW-7) carried the

viscera of the deceased to RFSL, Mandi. ASI Onkar Singh

(PW-8) filed an application to seek the opinion of the

Medical Officer regarding the fitness of the deceased to

make the statement. Rajinder Sharma (PW-9) proved the

statement of account of the parents of the deceased. SI

Ashwani Kumar (PW-10) conducted the investigation of the 7 case. Sanjay Kumar (PW-11) was working as MHC, who signed

the F.I.R. and proved the entry in the daily diary. 5. The accused in their statements recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. admitted that Ashok Kumar was married

to the deceased and two children were born to them. They

admitted that the deceased had consumed the poison and this

fact was told to the relatives of the deceased. The accused

stated that the witnesses were close relatives of deceased

Shashi Bala and they made false statements against them.

Deceased Shashi Bala was brought up and educated outside the

State, hence she did not intend to marry the accused Ashok

Kumar who was residing in a village but she was forced to do

so. She remained upset because of this. No relative of Shashi

Bala used to visit her and the accused used to tell Sashi Bala to

visit her parents. Initially, it was stated that the accused

wanted to lead the defence, however, subsequently, a

statement was made on their behalf that they did not want to

lead any defence evidence. 6. The learned Trial Court held that the marriage of

deceased Shashi Bala with Ashok Kumar was not disputed. It 8 was also not disputed that Shashi Bala had died after

consuming poison. She complained to the informant, his

wife and her aunt about her harassment in her matrimonial

home. Her father had paid ₹1,00,000/- on two different

occasions. The circumstances established that the accused

had treated Shashi Bala with cruelty and she was left with no

option but to commit suicide. Hence, the accused were

convicted and sentenced as aforesaid. 7. Being aggrieved from the judgment and order

passed by the learned Trial Court, the accused have filed two

separate appeals asserting that the learned Trial Court erred

in convicting and sentencing the accused. The prosecution

witnesses contradicted each other on material particulars.

The witnesses were related to the deceased and they were

highly interested. Learned Trial Court erred in relying upon

their testimonies. Therefore, it was prayed that the present

appeals be allowed and the judgment and order passed by

the learned Trial Court be set aside. 8. I have heard Ms Sheetal Vyas, learned counsel for

the appellants in both the appeals, Mr Jitender K. Sharma, 9 learned Additional Advocate General for the

respondent/State in both the appeals and Mr Sanjay Jaswal,

learned counsel for the complainant in both the appeals. 9. Ms Sheetal Vyas, learned counsel for the

appellants/accused submitted that the learned Trial Court

erred in convicting and sentencing the accused. The

testimonies of the prosecution witnesses contradicted each

other on martial aspects. There were no allegations of

payment of ₹1,00,000/- by the father of the deceased to the

accused -Ashok Kumar in the FIR and this fact was

introduced during the trial by the prosecution. This fact is an

improvement, which cannot be relied upon. There is no

evidence of any instigation on the part of the accused. The

prosecution witnesses admitted that the deceased used to be

happy at the time of leaving the informant's home, which

falsified the prosecution's version regarding the beating and

harassment in her matrimonial home. Hence, she prayed

that the present appeals be allowed and the judgment and

order passed by the learned Trial Court be set aside. She 10 relied upon the following judgments in support of her

submission:- 10. Mr Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General for the respondent/State submitted that the

prosecution witnesses consistently stated about the

harassment of the deceased by the accused. The accused had

demanded dowry from the deceased and when she was

unable to provide it, they harassed her continuously leaving

her with no other option but to commit suicide. Hence, he

prayed that the present appeals be dismissed. 11. Mr. Sanjay Jaswal, learned counsel for the

complainant adopted the submissions advanced by the

learned Additional Advocate General for the 12 respondent/State. He relied upon the following judgments in

support of his submission: - 12. I have given considerable thought to the

submissions made at the bar and have gone through the

records carefully. 13. The informant Raghunath Singh (PW-3) stated

in his statement recorded under Section 154 of Cr.P.C. that

Sashi Bala used to complain that her husband Ashok Kumar

and her mother-in-law Bimla Devi used to beat her for

bringing insufficient dowry. She remained in the

informant's house in the first week of May and told her

aunts that her husband and her mother-in-law were

harassing her on trivial matters and beating her. They were

demanding more dowry. She had an injury in the ear and she

said that this injury was caused by the beating given by the

accused to her. 14. It is apparent from this statement that it

contains general allegations. No particulars of the date or

time were given regarding the beating or harassment. A

vague and general statement was made that the accused

were harassing the deceased for bringing insufficient dowry.

The details of the dowry demanded by the accused were not

provided. 15. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri)

286: 2009 SCC OnLine SC 1693 that the Court has to see that

particulars of the offences committed by every accused and

the role played by the accused in committing the offence are

given in the complaint made to the police. It was observed: - 16. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. ,

2023 SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of

false implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if

left unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of

law. It was observed: 17. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person 16 to face criminal allegations without any specific instance of

criminal misconduct amounts to an abuse of the process of

the Court. It was observed: "18. The plain reading of the FIR and the chargesheet
 papers indicate that the allegations levelled by the
 First Informant are quite vague, general and
 sweeping, specifying no instances of criminal
 conduct. It is also pertinent to note that in the FIR, no
 specific date or time of the alleged offence/offences
 has been disclosed. Even the police thought fit to
 drop the proceedings against the other members of
 the Appellant's family. Thus, we are of the view that
 the FIR lodged by Respondent No. 2 was nothing but a
 counterblast to the divorce petition & also the
 domestic violence case. 25. If a person is made to face a criminal trial on some
 general and sweeping allegations without bringing on
 record any specific instances of criminal conduct, it is
 nothing but abuse of the process of the court. The court
 owes a duty to subject the allegations levelled in the
 complaint to thorough scrutiny to find out, prima facie,
 whether there is any grain of truth in the allegations or
 whether they are made only with the sole object of
 involving certain individuals in a criminal charge, more
 particularly when a prosecution arises from a
 matrimonial dispute." (Emphasis supplied) 18. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes,

the parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain

out of a molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting

to nuisance does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 17 19. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar

Reddy v. State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR

252 that the phenomena of false implication by general

omnibus allegation in the case of matrimonial dispute are

not unknown to the Court. When the allegations are general

and omnibus, the prosecution should not be continued. It

was observed: - wife against her in-laws u/s. 498A and others were
vague and general, lacking any specific role and
particulars. The court proceeded to quash the FIR
against the accused persons and noted that such a
situation if left unchecked, would result in the abuse
of the process of law. xxxx 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we
find that the High Court, in this case, has failed to
exercise due care and has mechanically permitted the
criminal proceedings to continue despite specifically
finding that the allegations are general and omnibus
in nature. The Appellants herein approached the High
Court on inter alia grounds that the proceedings were
re-initiated on vexatious grounds and even
highlighted the commencement of divorce
proceedings by Respondent No. 2. In these peculiar
circumstances, the High Court had a duty to consider
the allegations with great care and circumspection so
as to protect against the danger of unjust
prosecution." 20. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in KailashbenMahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024

SCC OnLine SC 2621 that general and vague allegations of

cruelty made against the husband and his relatives are not

sufficient to constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10 SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident
where the complainant's brother accompanied her to
the matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3
are alleged to have refused to take her back, but on
persuasion by her brother, she was allowed to stay.
There is also a vague allegation that, when the
complainant gave birth to a second child, appellants 1
and 2 came and "quarrelled" with the complainant,
her brother, and her parents and threatened them.
This Court had occasion to examine the phenomenon
of general and omnibus allegations in the cases of
matrimonial disputes. In Mamidi Anil Kumar
Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127, this
Court observed that: xxxx

13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC
599, this Court noticed the injustice that may be
caused when parties are forced to go through
tribulations of a trial based on general and omnibus
allegations. The relevant portion of the observation is
as under: 21. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682,

wherein it was observed: 22. This position was reiterated in Geddam Jhansi v.

State of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263 wherein it was

observed: 23. Even statements on oath do not contain the

necessary particulars. Raghunath Singh (PW-3) stated that

the deceased used to visit his house as and when she found

time. She used to tell him that the accused were harassing

and beating her for bringing lesser dowry. She visited his

house in May 2010 and told Urmila Devi and Sikendra Devi

(PW-5) that the accused were beating and harassing her for

dowry. She said that her husband had beaten her, due to

which she sustained an ear injury. 24. Similarly, Virender Singh (PW-4) stated that the

accused started maltreating the deceased for bringing less

dowry. They used to beat her. Shashi Bala used to visit his

house. He made her understand that he would counsel her

in-laws and she should bear with it. He also told her that the

demand for dowry would be fulfilled by her father on his

return from Gujrat. Shashi Bala complained about the ill

behaviour of the accused to her aunts. She also told him that

the accused had given a beating to her for not bringing

sufficient dowry. He (Virender Singh), Raghu Nath and

Kushal Singh had gone to the house of the accused in March

2010 and advised them not to harass and beat the deceased.

They also told the accused that the demand for cash and

dowry would be fulfilled after the return of Shashi Bala's

father. 25. Sikendera Devi (PW-5) stated that Shashi Bala

told her and Urmila Devi that she was being harassed by the

accused for bringing less dowry. The accused used to beat

her. She told Sashi Bala that she would talk to the accused

not to harass or beat her. Hardev Singh, father of Shashi 29 Bala, fulfilled the demand of the accused. Her husband

Raghunath Singh (PW-3) and Kushal went to the house of

the accused in March 2010 to counsel. They advised the

accused not to harass Shashi Bala. The parents of the

deceased visited the village in May 2010. They talked to the

accused and advised them to keep Shashi Bala properly. The

parents of Sashi Bala called her (Shashi Bala) to her paternal

home and gave ₹1,00,000/- in cash to Ashok Kumar.

₹1,00,000/- was given in the year 2008 to meet their

demand for dowry. The accused continued to harass the

deceased. 26. Hardev Singh (PW-6), father of the deceased,

stated that Sashi Bala started telling him on the telephone

after three-four months of her marriage that the accused

were harassing and beating her for bringing less dowry. He

used to console her and tell her that he would advise the

accused persons properly upon his arrival in the village. He

went to the village in the year 2008. Sashi Bala told him that

she was being harassed and beaten up. He went to the house

of the accused and advised them to keep Shashi Bala 30 properly. He called accused Ashok Kumar and Shashi Bala to

his house and paid ₹1,00,000/- in cash to Ashok Kumar.

The accused, Ashok Kumar, kept Shashi Bala properly for

five months. Shashi Bala again informed him that the

accused had started harassing and beating her. The accused

used to turn her out of the matrimonial home during the

night. She used to complain to her uncles and aunts

regarding the harassment. He counselled and told her that

he would settle the matter upon his arrival. Varinder Singh

(PW-4), Raghunath Singh (PW3) and Kushal went to the

house of the accused in March 2010. They advised the

accused to improve their behaviour. Deceased Shashi Bala

telephoned him in April 2010 and told him about her

harassment. He and his wife went to the village and paid

cash of ₹1,00,000/- to accused Ashok Kumar. Shashi Bala

continued to complain against the accused about the

harassment. 27. It is apparent from these statements that they do

not contain any particulars of date, time, place and nature of

demands made by the accused. All the witnesses stated that 31 the accused used to harass and beat Shashi Bala for bringing

less dowry. The statement made by the victim's father

regarding the payment of ₹ 2,00,000 on two different

occasions was never asserted by the informant in his

statement recorded under Section 154 of Cr.P.C. The victim's

father categorically stated that he had asked Varinder Singh

(PW-4), Raghunath Singh (PW-3) and Kushal to visit the

house of the accused and counsel them. Raghunath Singh

(PW-3), on the other hand, is silent about this fact. He is the

uncle of the deceased and would have been aware of the

payment of ₹2,00,000/-to the accused.However, he omitted

to mention this fact in his earlier statement made to the

police or before the Court. The failure to mention this fact

by Raghunath Singh will make the prosecution case

regarding the payment of ₹1,00,000/- on two different

occasions highly suspect. 28. The contemporaneous conduct of the witnesses

does not support their allegations. The informant,

Raghunath Singh (PW-3), stated in his cross-examination

that he had not mentioned the pain in the ear of Shashi Bala 32 because he was confused. He stated that he had not shown

her to any doctor. He volunteered to say that he wanted to

avoid litigation on this account. This is hardly any

explanation. Taking an injured person to the doctor does not

initiate any litigation, rather it ensures the treatment of the

injured. It is difficult to believe that Shashi Bala and her

relatives would not have taken any steps to get her medical

help for the injury in the ear when any such injury could

have resulted in hearing loss. Hence, failure to provide

medical help to the deceased will make it doubtful that the

accused had caused injuries to the deceased. 29. Varinder Singh (PW-4) stated in his cross-

examination that Shashi Bala visited his house about six or

seven times. She also used to stay with the informant.

Accused Ashok Kumar used to acocmpany Shashi Bala in her

parental home and take her back in his vehicle to her

matrimonial home. Shashi Bala visited his house in the first

week of May 2010 and stayed in his house for 1-2 days. He

volunteered to say that her father was also in the village. 33 Shashi Bala stayed with her father and went to her

matrimonial home with accused Ashok Kumar. 30. The statement of this witness shows that Shashi

Bala's father was present in the village in May 2010 when

she is stated to have suffered an injury in her ear. Her father

has not stated anything about the injury. This fact, coupled

with the fact that the victim was not taken to the Medical

Officer, will make it difficult to rely upon the prosecution

version regarding the injury sustained by Sashi Bala. 31. Varinder Singh (PW-4) stated in his cross-

examination that accused Ashok Kumar used to accompany

Sashi Bala to her parental home and take her to her

matrimonial home. Accused Ashok Kumar and Shashi Bala

appeared to be happy. This statement makes the

prosecution's version regarding the harassment highly

doubtful. If her husband used to accompany her to her

matrimonial home and her parental home, it makes the

prosecution case suspect. Her husband would not have

accompanied her to her parental home and her matrimonial 34 home if he was unhappy with Shashi Bala for bringing

insufficient dowry. 32. Sikendera Devi (PW-5) stated in her cross-

examination that accused Ashok Kumar used to drop her in

his vehicle, but sometime she used to travel on a bus. The

accused would invariably take her in his vehicle to her

matrimonial home. She never took a stand that she would

not return to her matrimonial home. Ashok Kumar and

Shashi Bala appeared happy whenever they visited Shashi

Bala's parental home. 33. The cross-examination of this witness shows

that Shashi Bala was not unhappy in her matrimonial home

because she never refused to go to her matrimonial home.

She appeared happy in her matrimonial home. Her conduct,

and the conduct of the accused to accompany her to her

parental home, will make it difficult to rely upon the version

of the prosecution witnesses regarding the harassment. 34. Hardev Singh (PW-6) stated in his cross-

examination that Ashok Kumar used to bring her to her

parental home in his vehicle. He also used to take her back 35 in his vehicle invariably. They did not quarrel during their

stay in their parental home. They also never quarrelled

during any social event. This shows that Ashok Kumar and

Shashi Bala were happy, and the prosecution's version

regarding harassment is not corroborated by her conduct. 35. Rajinder Sharma (PW-9) proved the statement

of account (Ext.PW-9/A). However, this statement of

account shows only the withdrawal of ₹1,00,000/- on

16.10.2008 and ₹1,50,000/- on 08.04.2010. Mere withdrawal

of the amount is not sufficient to prove the payment of

money to the accused, especially when the earliest version is

silent regarding any such payment. 36. It was laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh Kumar versus the State of Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573

that the prosecution is required to prove that the accused

had created such circumstances that the deceased was left

with no other option but to commit suicide. The Court

cannot conclude that a woman was being harassed because

she had committed suicide. It was observed: 36 18. This Court in M. Arjunan v. State [M.
Arjunan v. State, (2019) 3 SCC 315: (2019) 2 SCC (Cri)
219], while explaining the necessary ingredients of Section 306 IPC in detail, observed as under : (SCC p.
317, para 7)
 "7. The essential ingredients of the offence
 under Section 306IPC are (i) the abetment and (ii) the intention of the accused to aid or
 instigate or abet the deceased to commit
 suicide. The act of the accused, however,
 insulting the deceased by using abusive
 language will not, by itself, constitute the
 abetment of suicide. There should be evidence
 capable of suggesting that the accused
 intended by such an act to instigate the
 deceased to commit suicide. Unless the
 ingredients of instigation/abetment to commit
 suicide are satisfied, the accused cannot be
 convicted under Section 306IPC." 19. This Court in Ude Singh v. State of Haryana [Ude
Singh v. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301: (2020) 3
SCC (Cri) 306], held that to convict an accused under
Section 306IPC, the state of mind to commit a
particular crime must be visible with regard to
determining the culpability. It was observed as
under: (SCC pp. 321-22, para 16)
 "16. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide,
 there must be proof of direct or indirect act(s)
 of incitement to the commission of suicide. It
 could hardly be disputed that the question of
 the cause of suicide, particularly in the context 38 of an offence of abetment of suicide, remains a
vexed one involving multifaceted and complex
attributes of human behaviour and
responses/reactions. In the case of an
accusation of abetment of suicide, the court
would be looking for cogent and convincing
proof of the act(s) of incitement to the
commission of suicide. In the case of suicide, a
mere allegation of harassment of the deceased
by another person would not suffice unless
there be such action on the part of the accused
which compels the person to commit suicide,
and such an offending action ought to be
proximate to the time of occurrence. Whether a
person has abetted in the commission of
suicide by another or not could only be
gathered from the facts and circumstances of
each case. 16.1. For the purpose of finding out if a person
has abetted the commission of suicide by
another, the consideration would be if the
accused is guilty of the act of instigation of the
act of suicide. As explained and reiterated by
this Court in the decisions above referred,
instigation means to goad, urge forward,
provoke, incite or encourage to do an act. If the
persons who committed suicide had been
hypersensitive and the action of the accused is
otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a
similarly circumstanced person to commit
suicide, it may not be safe to hold the accused
guilty of abetment of suicide. But, on the other
hand, if the accused, by his acts and by his
continuous course of conduct, creates a
situation which leads the deceased to perceive
no other option except to commit suicide, the
case may fall within the four corners of Section
306 IPC. If the accused plays an active role in 39 tarnishing the self-esteem and self-respect of
 the victim, which eventually draws the victim
 to commit suicide, the accused may be held
 guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of
 mens rea on the part of the accused in such
 cases would be examined with reference to the
 actual acts and deeds of the accused and if the
 acts and deeds are only of such nature where
 the accused intended nothing more than
 harassment or snap show of anger, a particular
 case may fall short of the offence of abetment
 of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by words or
 deeds until the deceased reacted or was
 provoked, a particular case may be that of
 abetment of suicide. Such being the matter of
 delicate analysis of human behaviour, each
 case is required to be examined on its own facts
 while taking note of all the surrounding factors
 having bearing on the actions and psyche of the
 accused and the deceased." 20. This Court inMariano Anto Brunov.State[Mariano
Anto Brunov.State, (2023) 15 SCC 560: 2022 SCC OnLine
SC 1387], after referring to the above-referred
decisions rendered in the context of culpability under
Section 306IPC observed as under: (SCC para 45)
 "45. ... It is also to be borne in mind that in
 cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there
 must be proof of direct or indirect acts of
 incitement to the commission of suicide.
 Merely on the allegation of harassment
 without there being any positive action
 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part
 of the accused which led or compelled the
 person to commit suicide, a conviction in terms
 of Section 306IPC is not sustainable." 21. This Court in Gurcharan Singh v. State of
Punjab [Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2020) 10
SCC 200: (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 417], observed that
whenever a person instigates or intentionally aids by
any act or illegal omission, the doing of a thing, a
person can be said to have abetted in doing that
thing. To prove the offence of abetment, as specified
under Section 107IPC, the state of mind to commit a
particular crime must be visible to determine the
culpability. 22. This Court in Kashibai v. State of Karnataka
[Kashibai v. State of Karnataka, (2023) 15 SCC 751: 2023
SCC OnLine SC 575], observed that to bring the case
within the purview of "abetment" under Section
107IPC, there has to be an evidence with regard to the
instigation, conspiracy or intentional aid on the part
of the accused and for the purpose proving the charge
under Section 306IPC, also there has to be an
evidence with regard to the positive act on the part of
the accused to instigate or aid to drive a person to
commit suicide. 23. Had there been any clinching evidence of
incessant harassment on account of which the wife
was left with no other option but to put an end to her
life, it could have been said that the accused intended
the consequences of his act, namely, suicide. A
person intends a consequence when he
(1) foresees that it will happen if the given series of
acts or omissions continue and (2) desires it to
happen. The most serious level of culpability,
justifying the most serious levels of punishment, is
achieved when both these components are actually
present in the accused's mind (a "subjective" test). 24. For intention in English law, Section 8 of the
Criminal Justice Act, 1967, provides the frame in
which the mens rea is assessed. It states: 41 Under Section 8(b) , therefore, the jury is allowed
 wide latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute
 intent or foresight on the basis of all the evidence. 25. It is now well settled that in order to convict a
 person under Section 306IPC, there has to be a clear
 mens rea to commit the offence. Mere harassment is
 not sufficient to hold an accused guilty of abetting
 the commission of suicide. It also requires an active
 act or direct act which led the deceased to commit
 suicide. The ingredient of mens rea cannot be
 assumed to be ostensibly present but has to be visible
 and conspicuous. 37. This position was reiterated in Patel Babubhai

Manohardas and others vs State of Gujarat 2025 INSC 322

wherein it was observed: As perSection 107 IPC , a person would be abetting the
doing of a thingif he instigates any person to do that
thing, if he encourages one or more person or
persons in any conspiracy for doingthat thing or if he
intentionally aids by any act or illegalomission doing
of that thing. There are two explanations toSection 107. As per Explanation 1, even if a person, by way
ofwilful misrepresentation or concealment of a
material factwhich he is otherwise bound to disclose
voluntarily causes orprocures or attempts to cause or
procure a thing to be done, issaid to instigate the
doing of that thing. Explanation 2 clarifiesthat
whoever does anything in order to facilitate
thecommission of an act, either prior to or at the
time of the commission of the act, is said to aid the
doing of that act. 17. Section 114 IPC is an explanation or clarificationof Section 107 IPC. What Section 114 IPC says is that
wheneverany person is absent but was present when
the act or offencefor which he would be punishable in
consequence of theabetment is committed, he shall
be deemed to have committedsuch an act or offence
and would be liable to be punished asan abettor. 18. In Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh (2001) 9
SCC 618, thisCourt held that to 'instigate' means to
goad, urge, provoke,incite or encourage to do 'an 43 act'. To satisfy the requirement of'instigation', it is
not necessary that actual words must be usedto that
effect or that the words or act should necessarily
andspecifically be suggestive of the consequence.
Where theaccused by his act or omission or by his
continued course ofconduct creates a situation that
the deceased is left with noother option except to
commit suicide, then 'instigation' may beinferred. A
word uttered in a fit of anger or emotion
withoutintending the consequences to actually follow
cannot be said tobe 'instigation' 19. Elaborating further, this Court in Chitresh
KumarChopra versus State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi )(2009)
16 SCC 605observed that toconstitute 'instigation', a
person who instigates another has toprovoke, incite,
urge or encourage the doing of an act by theother by
'goading' or 'urging forward'. This Court summed
upthe constituents of 'abetment' as under: 20. Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu versus State of West
Bengal (2010) 1 SCC 707is a case wherethis Court held
that in a case of allegedabetment of suicide, there
must be proof of direct or indirectact(s) of incitement
to the commission of suicide. Merely on theallegation
of harassment without there being any positiveaction
proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of 44 theaccused which led or compelled the deceased to
commitsuicide, conviction in terms of Section 306 IPC would not besustainable. Similar view has been
expressed by this Court incase of Ude Singh versus
State of Haryana (2019) 17 SCC 301 21. After considering the provisions of Sections
306and 107 of IPC, this Court in Rajesh versus State of
Haryana (2020) 15 SCC 359held that conviction under Section 306 IPC is not sustainableon the allegation of
harassment without there being anypositive action
proximate to the time of occurrence on the partof the
accused which led or compelled the person to
commitsuicide. 22. Abetment to commit suicide involves a
mentalprocess of instigating a person or
intentionally aiding a personin the doing of a thing.
Without a positive proximate act on thepart of the
accused to instigate or aid in committing
suicide,conviction cannot be sustained. Besides, in
order to convict aperson under Section 306 IPC, there
has to be a clear mens reato commit the offence. 23. This Court in Amudha versus State2024 INSC
244held thatthere has to be an act of incitement on
the part of the accusedproximate to the date on
which the deceased committedsuicide. The act
attributed should not only be proximate to thetime of
suicide but should also be of such a nature that
thedeceased was left with no alternative but to take
the drasticstep of committing suicide. 24. Again, in the case of KamaruddinDastagir
Sanadiversus State of Karnataka(2024) SCC Online SC
3541, this Court observed that discordand differences
in domestic life are quite common in
society.Commission of suicide largely depends upon
the mental stateof the victim. Until and unless some
guilty intention on the partof the accused is
established, it is ordinarily not possible toconvict the
accused for an offence under Section 306 IPC. 45 25. Prakash versus State of Maharashtra.2024 INSC
 1020is a casewhere this Court after analysing various
 decisions on the pointsummed up the legal position
 in the following manner: Such instigation or incitementshould reveal a
 clear mens rea to abet thecommission of suicide
 and should put the victim insuch a position
 that he/she would have no otheroption but to
 commit suicide. 25.1. In the aforesaid judgment, this Court referred
 toits earlier decision in Sanju @ Sanjay Singh Sengar
 versus Stateof M.P.(2002) 5 SCC 371and held that in a
 given case, even a time gap of 48hours between using
 of abusive language by the accused andthe
 commission of suicide would not amount to a
 proximateact." 38. Similar are the judgments cited on behalf of the

accused and it is not necessary to refer to each judgment

individually. 39. It was submitted that the deceased had

committed suicide within seven years of her marriage, and

presumption under Section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act

applies to the present case. This submission is not 46 acceptable. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Naresh (supra) that the presumption under Section 113 A of the Indian Evidence Act will only apply when there is

proof of the cruelty. It was observed:- 31. In this appeal, we are concerned with Section 113-
 A of the Evidence Act. The mere fact that the deceased
 committed suicide within a period of seven years of
 her marriage, the presumption under Section 113-A of the Evidence Act, would not automatically apply.
 The legislative mandate is that where a woman
 commits suicide within seven years of her marriage,
 and it is shown that her husband or any relative of
 her husband had subjected her to cruelty, the
 presumption under Section 113-A of the Evidence Act
 may be raised, having regard to all other
 circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been
 abetted by her husband or by such relative of her
 husband. 32. What is important to note is that the term "the
 court may presume having regard to all other 47 circumstances of the case that such suicide had been
abetted by her husband" would indicate that the
presumption is discretionary, unlike the
presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act,
which is mandatory. Therefore, before the
presumption under Section 113-A is raised, the
prosecution must show evidence of cruelty or
incessant harassment in that regard. 33. The court should be extremely careful in
assessing evidence under Section 113-A for finding
out if cruelty was meted out. If it transpires that a
victim committing suicide was hypersensitive to
ordinary petulance, discord and differences in
domestic life quite common to the society to which
the victim belonged and such petulance, discord and
differences were not expected to induce a similarly
circumstanced individual in a given society to
commit suicide, the conscience of the court would
not be satisfied for holding that the accused charged
of abetting the offence of suicide was guilty. 34. Section 113-A has been interpreted by this Court
in Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab [Lakhjit
Singh v. State of Punjab, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 173: 1994
SCC (Cri) 235], Pawan Kumar v. State of
Haryana [Pawan Kumar v. State of Haryana, (1998) 3
SCC 309: 1998 SCC (Cri) 740] and Shanti v. State of
Haryana [Shanti v. State of Haryana, (1991) 1 SCC 371: 35. This Court has held that from the mere fact of
suicide within seven years of marriage, one should
not jump to the conclusion of abetment unless
cruelty was proved. The court has the discretion to
raise or not to raise the presumption because of the
words "may presume". It must take into account all
the circumstances of the case, which is an additional
safeguard. 36. In the absence of any cogent evidence of
 harassment or cruelty, an accused cannot be held
 guilty of the offence under Section 306IPC by raising
 a presumption under Section 113-A." 40. Therefore, no reliance can be placed on the

presumption under Section 113 A of the Indian Evidence Act. 41. In Kamalakar Nandram Bhavsar (supra), the

Hon'ble Supreme Court found on facts that the victim had

filed a petition under Section 125 of Cr.P.C., she had to take

shelter in the house of the independent person, which

corroborated the prosecution version regarding the cruelty.

In the present case, such facts are missing. 42. In Ude Singh (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court

found that the victim had taunted an unmarried girl by

addressing her as "wife", "Chachi" (aunt) and

"Bohoria"(younger brother's wife). They dragged her into

the house, pushed and abused her. She complained about

this harassment to the villagers. The accused continued with

these activities and she committed suicide. In the present

case, no complaint was ever made to the villagers;at least,

none has spoken about any complaint. No complaint was 49 ever made to the police or the Panchayat.Therefore, the facts

in Ude Singh (supra)are distinguishable. 43. In Gumansingh (supra), it was found that the

deceased was subjected to cruelty in her matrimonial home,

and she committed suicide within 7 years of her marriage.

The accused demanded ₹25000/- to purchase buffalo, which

demand was not fulfilled. She was harassed and compelled

to commit suicide. There was sufficient material on record

to establish the prosecution case, and there was no infirmity

in the statement of witnesses. These facts are missing in the

present case. Hence, no advantage can be derived from the

cited judgment on behalf of the complainant. 44. In the present case, the evidence is insufficient to

establish the charge of cruelty without the specific details.

The statements are vague, and they are not supported by

contemporaneous conduct. Hence, in these circumstances,

the prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond

reasonable doubt. 45. The learned Trial Court did not notice the

absence of payment of ₹1,00,000/- on two occasions in the 50 FIR and the informant's statement on oath. Learned Trial

Court also failed to notice that no medical treatment was

provided to Shashi Bala, and her father had also not stated

anything about the injury. Learned Trial Court considered

the withdrawals of ₹1,00,000/- and ₹1,50,000/- sufficient

to establish that the money was paid to the accused. No such

inference could have been drawn from the withdrawal of the

amount. Thus, the learned Trial Court erred in convicting

and sentencing the accused. 46. In view of the above, the present appeals are

allowed, and the judgment and order passed by the learned

Trial Court are ordered to be set aside. The fine amount be

refunded after the period of appeal in case no appeal is

preferred, and in case of appeal, the same be dealt with as

per the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 47. In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the

Code of Criminal Procedure (Section 481 of Bhartiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita, 2023), the respondents/accused are

directed to furnish bail bonds in the sum of ₹25,000/-each

with one surety each in the like amount to the satisfaction of 51 the learned Trial Court within four weeks, which shall be

effective for six months with stipulation that in the event of

Special Leave Petition being filed against this judgment, or

on grant of the leave, the respondents/accused on receipt of

notice thereof, shall appear before the Hon'ble Supreme

Court. 48. A copy of this judgment along with the record of

the learned Trial Court be sent back forthwith. Pending

applications, if any, also stand disposed of. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
11th March,2025
 (ravinder)