Whether computerisation and Central Processing of Income Tax W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 1 of 45 Returns is a boon or bane is rather sample to answer, as benefits of

computerisation easily outweigh and out score any argument to the

contrary. Computerization does away with human or manual element

and the frailties attached and ensures transparency besides being quick

and fool proof. Alas, it is a human element and frailties which have

resulted in the present Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which was

initiated pursuant to the letter dated 30th April, 2012 written by Anand

Prakash, F.C.A. Chartered Accountant. The said letter was treated as

PIL and marked to this Court. Subsequently, All India Federation for

Tax Practitioner filed the second writ petition on identical or similar

lines. For the sake of convenience, we reproduce the letter dated 30th

April, 2012 in verbatim: 2. By order dated 4th May, 2012, notice was issued to the Union of

India, Ministry of Finance, Central Board of Direct Taxes, Chief

Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi-I and Director General of Income

Tax (Systems), who were impleaded as respondent Nos. 1 to 4. By the

same order, the respondents were directed to revert the averments in

the letter and specific response was sought on the following aspects: (2) Whether the Revenue is taking
 caution and care to communicate rejection of
 TDS certificates and intimation under Section
 143(1) in case any adjustment or modification
 is made to taxes paid, either as advance tax,
 self assessment tax or TDS. (3) Whether and what steps are taken
 to verify and ascertain that the old demands
 against which adjustment is being made was
 communicated to the assessee? (4) What steps have been taken to
 ensure that the deductors correctly upload the
 TDS details/particulars on the Income Tax
 website? (5) What is the remedy available to
 the assessee and can he/she approach the
 Department in case the deductor fails to
 correctly upload the particulars in his/her
 cases? (6) Whether an assessee can get
 benefit of TDS deducted or/and paid but not
 uploaded by the deductor and procedure to
 claim the said benefit?" 3. The respondents were directed to file counter affidavit providing

full particulars regarding : The first two figures/particulars will be furnished on the basis of W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 5 of 45 computerized records maintained by the Income Tax
 Department on their system. If no such record is
 maintained/available on the system, it shall be indicated and the
 respondents need not furnish the said details." The order dated 4th May, 2012, also refers to difficulties with

regard to PAN card numbers. This aspect has not dealt with and is left

open, if required and necessary to be examined in another case. 4. On 30th May, 2012, another detailed order was passed as certain

aspects/questions were highlighted. The point raised were crystallized

for the purpose of counter affidavit to be filed by the respondents and

read:- Whether, the application/request for interest can be
 entertained by post or by email and answered within a
 specified time frame? (xii) It is pointed out that without password and user name,
 online returns cannot be filed. It is stated that in many cases
 password or user name get misplaced or are forgotten. It is
 very difficult to get a response and reply from the
 authorities regarding the user name and password. What is
 the procedure in such cases and whether any time frame is
 fixed for response to such requests? What is the remedy for
 the assessee in case there is delay and lapse on the part of
 the authorities in furnishing password/ user name? (xiii) The respondents shall examine and state whether on
 line viewing of Form 26 AS can be made easier and
 without use of password and the details available made
 more elaborate and complete. (xiv) The information and advantage of Rule 37BA of the
 Income Tax Rules, 1962 must be disseminate and
 published for the benefit of assessee public and deductors
 so that assessee can claim benefit of tax deducted at source
 in respect of income which is assessable in his hand." 5. Thereafter the respondents filed their counter affidavit dated 27 th

July, 2011 on 28th July, 2011. The respondents have also filed

additional affidavits thereafter in response to queries, and questions

which are dated 30th November, 2012, 29th January, 2013 and 5th

March, 2013. W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 8 of 45 6. In our order dated 31st August, 2012, we emphasized that two

specific problems being faced by the taxpayers were being examined

and considered. The first was the difficulties faced by the taxpayers

relating to credit of Tax Deducted at Source i.e. TDS which stands paid

by the deductors. This amount is deducted from the income earned by

the assessee but as noticed for several reasons which may not be

attributable to the taxpayers/assesses, they denied credit and, therefore,

may have to pay double tax. This is not warranted and acceptable.

Further the assessees suffer harassment and inconvenience both from

the Department and the deductor. The second category consists of

wrong or unpayable "past demands or arrears" which have been

uploaded in the Central Processing Unit (CPU) at Bengaluru, resulting

in adjustment of said arrears from the refund paid/payable in the

subsequent years. 7. However, two issues were specifically directed to be left out and

it was stated in our order dated 31st August, 2012 that these would not

be addressed in these PIL/writ petitions. The first issue relates to non-

implementation of the decision of the Supreme Court in Dr. Prannoy

Roy & Anr. Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax and Another (2009)

309 ITR 231 (SC), which as per the Revenue cannot be applied. The

second issue is more contentious and relates to whether an assessee is W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 9 of 45 entitled to credit of TDS which has been deducted by a deductor but

not paid or credited to the Government. These two issues, it was

observed can be taken up by individual assesses and it would not be

proper to entertain a Public Interest Litigation on these aspects. In our

order dated 31st August, 2012, we clarified that the PILs have not been

entertained to decide individual claims but in view of the general

problems being faced by most taxpayers specifically by small

taxpayers regarding issue of refunds, which are denied for bogus or

wrong demands/arrears or incorrect record maintenance and the

problem in getting full credit of the tax which has been deducted from

the income and paid/deposited with the Revenue. The problem was

apparent, real and enormous and had escalated because of centralised

computerisation and problems associated with the incorrect and wrong

data which was uploaded by the tax deductors or payers and the

Assessing Officers. The issue was of general governance, failure of

administration, fairness and arbitrariness. The magnitude of the

problem and the number of taxpayers adversely affected thereby is

apparent from the counter affidavit itself. Respondents have stated

that 43% and 39% of the returns filed by the deductors in Delhi zone

for the financial year 2010-11 and 2011-12 respectively were

defective. This effectively means that the assessee would not get credit W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 10 of 45 of the tax deducted from their incomes by the deductors. Rejection of

TDS or failure to get credit of TDS which has been deducted and paid,

huts the assessee and puts him to needless harassment, inconvenience

and costs. It also gives bad name to the Revenue. The problem being

systematic and institutional has to be addressed on a general scale. On

the issue of refunds, the respondent do not dispute and admit the

position that the data uploaded in the Centrally Processing Unit,

Bengaluru has errors and faults. In the counter affidavit, it is stated

that Rs.2.33 lac crores is due and payable, as per the data uploaded by

the Assessing Officers towards past arrears i.e. arrears payable on or

before 31st March, 2010. This is a substantial amount. Arrears, if

payable, must be paid. However, the position is that the taxpayers are

claiming and stating that arrears have been wrongly shown and the

Assessing Officers have not correctly uploaded the data. As noted

below, this is partly correct. The respondents also accept that the "past

arrears" as uploaded may not be correct. They have not quantified the

amount. The magnitude and the number of assessees adversely

affected, can be appreciated from the figure of Rs.2.33 lac crores.

Further, as per the counter affidavit on the basis of this data for one

assessment year alone Centrally Processing Unit, Bengaluru has made

about 23 lacs adjustments and the taxpayers have been denied the W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 11 of 45 refund claim i.e. the refund amount has been reduced or set off against

the arrears. This effectively means that 23 lac assessees have been

denied refund or have been refused full refund on account of past

arrears etc. The facts noticed above justify issue of notice and the

orders which have been passed and we are now passing to activate and

impress upon the Revenue to take remedial and effective action. 8. At the outset, we agree and accept that the respondents have

taken a right decision to computerise the income tax records, have

Central Processing Unit for processing of returns and issue of refunds.

Besides, these steps relate to policy and fall within the exclusive

domain of the respondents. These steps have to be appreciated as they

ensure transparency, openness, eliminate high handedness and curtail

corruption/red tapism. UPLOADING OF WRONG OR FICTITIOUS DEMAND 9. Prior to 31st March, 2010, Income Tax Returns were examined

manually and the respondents did not have centralised computerised

data or record of the demands outstanding against a particular assessee.

Each Assessing Officer manually maintained a Demand and Collection

Register (D&CR, for short). In the counter affidavit, it is stated that

the Standing Committee on Finance and Demands for Grants (2009- 10) of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) had W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 12 of 45 recommended uploading of arrears of demand in the CPU. On 18 th

March, 2010, the committee was constituted to put in place

Management Information System (MIS) for collating and retrieving of

data concerning appeal, disposal and recovery etc. In order to carry

out the mandate, Chief Commissioners were asked to devote one entire

month for house-keeping work with special emphasis on physical

verification of demands and thereafter create a manual D&CR for the

financial year 2010-11. CBDT instructions dated 28th October, 2010,

were issued for steps to be taken by the field formation and for

verification of arrears. The aforesaid exercise had to be completed by

the Assessing Officer before 30th May, 2010 and a certificate was to be

issued by them that they had verified the entries furnished. Range

Heads were directed to form Inspection Team of officers and staff to

verify and to give a certificate that verification of demand was

complete and demand had been correctly carried forwarded. This

inspection team had to complete this exercise by 15 th June, 2010 and

compliance report by the Chief Commissioner (CCS) was to be sent to

be sent to the CBDT by 30th June, 2010. 10. Inspite of the said effort and direction, the CBDT/Board accepts

and admits the position that incorrect and wrong demands have been

uploaded. This is clear from the further directions which have been W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 13 of 45 issued by the Board to the Assessing Officers on 30th September, 2010,

9th November, 2010 and 15th February, 2012. The aforesaid demands

relate to the period on or before 31 st March, 2010. In the counter

affidavit, it is indicated that 46.34 lac entries of demand aggregating to

Rs.2.32 lac crores have been uploaded on the CPC arrear demand

portal by the Assessing Officers. 11. Office of the Commissioner of Income Tax, Bengaluru, realising

that huge amount has been claimed as tax arrears, had written a letter

dated 21st August, 2012, to all Chief Commissioners. The relevant

portion of the said letter reads as under: 12. The letter points out two problems. Firstly, there is problem

about the verification and reconciliation of demand which had been

uploaded by the Assessing Officer in the CPU. It has been pointed out

that these demands were being disputed by the taxpayers. The

Assessing Officers were advised to upload amended figures after

correction and reconciliation. Secondly tax demand to the tune of

Rs.4800 crores had been adjusted by the CPU by way of adjustment of

refunds. This adjustment accordingly should be duly reflected and

shown in the record maintained by the individual Assessing Officers.

On a reading of the said letter, one can see and understand the concern

and anguish expressed on account of uploading of incorrect and wrong

data in the CPU and the problem faced by them and in turn problems

faced by the assesses. The letter specifically indicates that demands

recovered were not being recorded in the records maintained by the

Assessing Officer and credit was not duly reflected in the record of the

Assessing Officer. 13. The CBDT, after issue of notice in the writ petition, has issued

Circular No. 4 of 2012, which read as under: whether such arrear demand has been uploaded by the
 Assessing Officer on to Financial Accounting System
 (FAS) of CPC or it is still in the records of the
 Assessing Officer." 14. A reading of the circular shows that the burden is put on the

assessee to approach the Assessing Officers to get their records

updated and corrected. In the given situation perhaps this may be the

easiest and most convenient option available, but this should not be a

ground for the Assessing Officer not to suo motu correct their records

and upload correct data. Each assessee has a right and can demand

from the respondents that correct and true data relating to the past

demands should be uploaded. CBDT should and must endeavour and

direct the Assessing Officers to upload the correct data. The CBDT

has already issued Management of Arrear Demand manual for the

Assessing Officer. The real issue is that the Assessing Officers must

comply and follow the said manual and upload the correct and true

data. Filing of applications under Section 154 i.e. application for W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 17 of 45 rectification and correction by the assessee would entail substantial

expenses on the part of the assessee who would be required to engage a

counsel or advocate or make repeated visits to the Income Tax office

for the said purpose. This would defeat the main purpose behind

computerisation i.e. to reduce involvement of human element. 15. As per Citizen Charter on the website of Income Tax

Department, refund along with interest in case of electronically filed

returns should be made within six months. In case of manually filed

returns, refund should be made within nine months. The time

commences from the end of month in which the return/application is

received. Similarly, the Citizen Charter states that a decision on the

rectification application under Section 154 will be made within a

period of two months. The Board has, however, issued instructions

that rectification application under Section 154 should be disposed of

within 4/6 months. There is a general grievance that the Assessing

Officers do not adhere to the said time limits and the assessees are

invariably called upon to file duplicate applications or new applications

in case they want disposal. It is stated that there are no dak or receipt

counters or register for receipt of applications under Section 154 . Thus

there is no record/register with the Assessing Officer with details and

particulars of application made under Section 154 , the date on which it W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 18 of 45 was made, date of disposal and its fate. Noticing this fact in the order

dated 5th February, 2013, it was directed that the respondents must

examine the necessity for proper dak/receipt counters for receipt of

applications under Section 154 by hand or by post. It was observed

that it will be desirable that each application received should be entered

in a diary/register and given a serial number with acknowledgement to

the applicant indicating the diary number. It was also suggested that

details of applications under Section 154 should be uploaded on the

website as this would entail transparency. The website should indicate

the date on which the application was received and date of disposal of

the application by the Assessing Officer concerned. 16. In the affidavit filed on 5th March, 2013, the respondents have

stated that they have "recently" prescribed a register for receipt of

rectification applications. The said register has various columns

namely, date of disposal, date of service of rectification application,

demand/refund etc. This is the right step but it must be ensured by the

Board that the registers are made available to all Assessing Officers or

at the dak counters. The said registers will be made available to the

dak counters and the Assessing officers within two months, if not

already provided. The Board will also issue instructions that all

Assessing Officers and dak counters shall henceforth in the said W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 19 of 45 register, enter and allocate a serial number on the rectification

applications and the date of receipt and the serial number will be

mentioned on the acknowledgement, which is issued to the assessee.

Uploading of the details of the said registers as stated in the affidavit

should be made online preferably within a period of six months. This,

we reiterate would be in accordance with the mandate of the Citizen

Charter of the Department which states that the respondents believe in

equity and transparency. 17. In the counter affidavit filed on 5th March, 2013, it is stated that

Aayakar Seva Kendras provide for single window service to tax payers

for receipt of Dak/grievance and paper returns and applications under Section 154 are also within the scope of Aayakar Seva Kendras.

Information in this regard will be disseminated and informed to the

assessees, who can take advantage and benefit of the same. It is stated

that there are already 75 Aayakar Seva Kendras and 57 more such

Kendras are being set up in the current year. Similarly, it is stated that

Sevottam Aayakar Seva Kendras are being set up in 112 income tax

offices. 18. Each application under Section 154 has to be disposed of and

decided by a speaking order. This is the mandate of the Act. The

order has to be communicated to the assessee and there is a relevant W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 20 of 45 column to be filled in the register, which is now required to be

maintained. The Board should issue specific directions to ensure that

there is full compliance of the said requirements and directions by the

Assessing Officers, Dak counters and Aayakar Sewa Kendras. This is

the first mandamus or direction we have issued in the present

judgment. ADJUSTMENT OF REFUND CONTRARY TO THE MANDATE
OF SECTION 245 OF THE INCOME TAX ACT 19. Section 245 of the Act empowers and authorises an Assessing

Officer to adjust refunds against pending demands and arrears, and

reads as : 20. The respondents in their counter affidavit have accepted that the

Board from time to time has issued directions that the said Section and

the procedure prescribed should be strictly adhered to. Reference is

made to instruction Nos. 1952, 1969 and 1989 dated 14 th August, 1998,

20th August, 1999 and 20th October, 2010 respectively. Another W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 21 of 45 instruction CPC No. 1 dated 27th November, 2012 has been issued

recently. However, in the counter affidavit filed on 28 th July, 2012 two

conflicting or contradictory stands were taken. In one of the

paragraphs of the counter affidavit, the respondents have stated as

under: (emphasis supplied) 21. The aforesaid statement reflects the correct position in law as Section 245 mandates and envisages prior intimation to the assessee so

that he/she can respond before any adjustment of refund is made

towards the demand relating to any other assessment year. Thus, an

opportunity of response/reply should be given and after considering the

stand and plea of the assessee, justified and valid order or direction for

adjustment of refund can be made. The Section postulates two stage

action; prior intimation and then subsequent action when warranted

and necessary for adjustments of the refund towards arrears. 22. In the next paragraph of the counter affidavit, the respondents,

however, have taken a different stand on adjustment of refunds by W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 22 of 45 CPU, Bengaluru and have stated as under: (emphasis supplied) 23. The said paragraph accepts that when a return of income

processed under 143(1) at Central Processing Unit at Bengaluru, the

computer itself adjusts the refund due against the existing demand, i.e.,

there is adjustment but without following the two stage procedure

prescribed in Section 245 of the Act. In these circumstances, in the

order dated 31st August, 2012 we had passed the following interim

order: 24. The said interim order is confirmed. We notice that the

respondents have taken remedial steps to ensure compliance of Section

245 of the Act as they now give an option to the assessee to approach

the Assessing Officer. This is the second mandamus which we have

issued. As noticed above, the interim order passed in the writ petition

dated 31st August, 2012 has been implemented. 25. The problem relating to "past adjustment" before passing of the

interim order on 31st August, 2012, still persists and has to be

addressed. Noticing this fact in the order dated 31st August, 2012, we

had recorded as under: 26. Inspite of the opportunity given to the Revenue to take steps,

prescribe, adopt a just procedure, to correct the records, etc., nothing

has been done and they have not taken any decision or steps. The

affidavits filed subsequently after 31st August, 2012, are silent on this

specific point. In these circumstances, we direct and issue the third

mandamus and direction which will be applicable only to cases where

returns have been processed by the CPC Bengaluru and refunds have

been fully or partly adjusted against the past arrears while passing or

communicating the order under Section 143(1) of the Act, without

following the procedure under Section 245 of the Act. In such cases, it

is directed that:- 27. There are three reasons why we have issued the said direction.

Firstly, the respondents accept and admit the position that wrong and

incorrect demands have been uploaded in the CPC Bengaluru.

Secondly, the respondents have not followed the mandate and

requirement of Section 245 of the Act before making the adjustment.

The two stage process with the opportunity and right of the assessee to

submit a reply before the adjustment is made, has been denied. CPC Bengaluru did not entertain or accept any application of the assessee

questioning past arrears uploaded in their system as they are not

custodian of past records. CPU Bengaluru entertain on-line

applications but do not entertain physical or hard copy applications.

Assessing Officer similarly did not entertain any application by the

assessee on the ground that the order under Section 143(1) was passed

by the CPC Bengaluru and they do not have the files/return with them.

Thus, the problem was created and caused by the respondents who did

not realise the effect and impact of incorrect and wrong arrears being

uploaded in CPU Bengaluru and did not follow the statutory

requirements of Section 245 of the Act. 28. We clarify that the aforesaid directions are only applicable to W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 26 of 45 cases where two stage procedure under Section 245 of the Act has not

been followed and not to cases where procedure under Section 245 of

the Act was followed. 29. We are aware that this process may involve some expenditure

and paper work in about substantial number of cases but as noticed

above, the situation has arisen is due to the lapses on the part of the

Assessing Officers and failure to follow Section 245 of the Act. The

procedure under Section 245 of the Act is mandatory, just and fair and

the assessees cannot be made to suffer for the incorrect or wrong

uploading of arrears and wrong and incorrect adjustment of refund on

the part of the respondents. 30. There are two more issues connected with this question. The

first issue relates to interest under Section 244A of the Act. Revenue‟s

stand is that interest under Section 244A is not payable on self-

assessment tax but is payable on advance tax and TDS. The

respondents have further stated that interest is paid from 1 st day of

April of the assessment year till the date on which the refund is

granted. We are not examining the said stand of the Revenue and

leave these questions open. 31. In the affidavit filed on 29th January, 2013, the respondents have

stated as under:- 32. An assessee can be certainly denied interest if delay is

attributable to him in terms of sub-section (2) to Section 244A .

However, when the delay is not attributable to the assessee but due to

the fault of the Revenue, then interest should be paid under the said

Section. False or wrong uploading of past arrears and failure to follow

the mandate before adjustment is made under Section 245 of the Act,

cannot be attributed and treated as a fault of the assessee. These are

lapses on the part of the Assessing Officer i.e. the Revenue. Interest

cannot be denied to the assessees when the twin conditions are satisfied

and in favour of the assessee. However, even in such cases Assessing

officer may deny interest for reasons to be recorded in writing if the

assessee was in fault and responsible for the delay. This is the fourth

mandamus which we have issued. 33. The second grievance of the assessee is with regard to the

uncommunicated intimiations under Section 143(1) which remained on

paper/file or the computer of the Assessing Officer. This is serious

challenge and a matter of grave concern. The law requires intimation

under Section 143(1) should be communicated to the assessee, if there W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 28 of 45 is an adjustment made in the return resulting either in demand

or reduction in refund. The uncommunicated orders/intimations cannot

be enforced and are not valid. Respondents in the counter affidavit

have not dealt with this problem on the assumption that the Assessing

Officer who had manually processed the returns and passed the

order/intimations under Section 143(1) would have necessarily

followed the statute and communicated the said orders/intimations. In

case the said orders/intimations under Section 143(1) were

communicated or dispatched to the assessees, the directions given by

us below would not be a cause for any grievance and will not be a

matter of concern for the Revenue. We also accept the contention of

the Revenue that where an order under Section 143(1) was sent and

communicated to the assessee but could not be served due to non-

availability/change of address or other valid reasons, should not be

treated at par with cases where there is no communication or no

attempt is made to serve the order whatsoever. But when there is

failure to dispatch or send communication/intimation to the assessee

consequences must follow. Such intimation/order prior to 31 st March,

2010, will be treated as non est or invalid for want of

communication/service within a reasonable time. This exercise, it is

desirable should be undertaken expeditiously by the Assessing W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 29 of 45 Officers. CBDT will issue instructions to the Assessing Officers. 34. The onus to show that the order was communicated and was

served on the assessee is on the Revenue and not upon the assessee.

We may note in case an order under Section 143(1) is not

communicated or served on the assessee, the return as declared/filed is

treated as deemed intimation and an order under Section 143(1) .

Therefore, if an assessee does not receive or is not communicated an

order under Section 143(1) , he will never know that some adjustments

on account of rejection of TDS or tax paid has been made. While

deciding applications under Section 154 , or passing an order under Section 245 , the Assessing Officers are required to know and follow

the said principle. Of course, while deciding application under Section

154 or 245 or otherwise, if the Assessing Officer comes to the

conclusion and records a finding that TDS or tax credit had been

fraudulently claimed he will be entitled to take action as per law and

deny the fraudulent claim of TDS etc. The Assessing Officer,

therefore, has to make a distinction between fraudulent claims and

claims which have been rejected on ground of technicalities but there is

no communication to the assessee of the order/intimation under Section

143(1) . In the later cases, the Assessing Officer cannot turn around

and enforce the demand created by uncommunicated order/intimation W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 30 of 45 under Section 143(1) . This is the fifth mandamus which we have

issued. CREDIT OF TAX DEDUCTED AT SOURCE (TDS) 35. This brings us to the second issue regarding credit of TDS or

rejection of credit even when the TDS stands paid by the deductor.

The said problem can be divided into two categories; cases where the

deductors fail to upload the correct and true particulars of the TDS,

which has been deducted and paid as a result of which the assessee

does not get credit of the tax paid, and the second set of cases where

there is a mismatch between the details uploaded by the deductor and

the details furnished by the assessee in the income tax return. The

details of TDS credited/uploaded in the case of each assessee are now

available in form 26 AS. 36. The magnitude of the problem faced by the assessees on account

of mismatch for the first reason can be appreciated if we notice the

figures given by the respondents in the counter affidavit filed on 28 th

July, 2012. It is stated that in Financial Years 2010-11 and 2011-12 as

many as 43% and 39% of the TDS returns processed in Delhi zone,

where the level of compliance is much higher and better than the

national average, were found to be defective. A total demand of Rs.

3000 crores approximately was raised in Delhi zone on the assessees W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 31 of 45 for the Financial Year 2010-11. After correction were made and the

consequent corrective orders were passed, the figure came down to

1900 crores, which is still a substantial amount. 37. In the counter affidavit filed on 28th July, 2012, the respondents

had pointed out that the following mismatches are normally noticed: Mismatch relates to Possible reasons for Steps to avoid
 mismatch Mismatch
 TDS/TCS TAN of Furnish the correct
 deductor/collector TAN Number of the
 wrongly quoted in the Tax Deductor/Collector
 return in the return of Income. Assessment Year etc. particulars to the bank
 committed while branch where challan
 preparing the challan. was paid and request
 for uploading corrected
 challan data to NSDL. 38. It is further stated in the counter affidavit as under: Procedure for giving credit even when there is slight
 mismatch. (i) That the taxpayer is not allowed to credit of taxes
 even if there is a lightest of mismatch in the TDS
 particulars reported in form 26AS is not correct
 because the board has been issuing Instructions to the
 filed formations for permitting credit of TDS with or
 without verification depending upon the facts of the
 case as mentioned in the instructions. In this regard, a
 reference may be made to Instruction No.2 of 2011
 dated 9th February, 2011 and Instruction No.1 of 2012
 dated 2nd February, 2012. (ii) In the said Instructions, the Board has asked the
 Assessing Officers to accept the TDS claims without
 verification in all returns where the difference
 between the TDS claimed and matching TDS amount
 reported in AS26 data does not exceed rupees one lac.
 Therefore, the Department is aware of the
 inconvenience which may be caused to smaller
 taxpayers and has taken a very liberal view of the
 matter." W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 33 of 45 39. However, the respondents have now reduced this figure of Rs.1

lac to mere Rs.5,000/-. Ex-facie, the reasoning that the reduction is to

check fraudulent claims by unscrupulous assesses does not appear to

be correct as in order to claim credit of TDS the following three core

fields must match. These core fields are: name of the assessee, the

PAN number and the assessment year. Benefit of Rs.1 lac or Rs.3 lacs

or Rs.5,000/- is only when there is a discrepancy in the amount and not

when there is a discrepancy in any of the three core fields, i.e. name of

the assessee, the PAN number and the assessment year. This being a

PIL, we are not issuing a specific direction but the Board must re-

examine the said aspect and if they feel that unnecessary burden or

harassment will be caused to the assessees, suitable remedial steps

should be taken. 40. However, we appreciate the stand taken by the respondents that

assessee would be given credit even in cases of mismatch or other

details not exceeding the specified amounts, in case the name of the

assessee, PAN number and the assessment year tally with the details

furnished in the return by the assessee and the data uploaded in form

26AS by the deductor. The said stand of the respondents is mentioned

in their affidavit filed on 5th March, 2013, the relevant portion of which

reads as under: 41. There can be mismatch because of deductor and the assessee

may be following different methods of accounting. Further, the

assessee may treat the income on which tax has been deducted as

income for two or more different years. The respondents must take

remedial steps and ensure that in such cases TDS is not rejected on the

ground that the amounts do not tally. Of course, while issuing

corrective steps, the respondents can ensure that fraudulent or double

claims for TDS are not made. We are not issuing any specific

directions as it is a technical matter but the respondents should take

remedial steps in this regard. 42. Another problem highlighted relates to the use of alphabets „U‟,

„M‟ and „P‟ in form 26 AS. The said alphabets stand for „unmatched

challan‟, „matched challan‟ and „provisional booking‟. It is stated that

„provisional booking‟ is applicable for DDOs, i.e., Government

deductors and shall be shortly discontinued. „Unmatched challans‟

relate to challans where the report by the deductor in the TDS

statement are not found available in the OLTAS data base (OLTAS W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 35 of 45 stands for Online Tax Accounting System). The respondents will fix a

time limit within which they shall verify and correct all unmatched

challans. This will necessarily require communication with the

deductor and steps to rectify. The time limit fixed should take into

account the due date of filing of the return and processing of the return

by the Assessing Officer. An assessee as a deductee should not suffer

because of fault made by deductor or inability of the Revenue to ask

the deductor to rectify and correct. Once payment has been received

by the Revenue, credit should be given to the assessee. Board will

issue such suitable directions in this regard and this is the sixth

mandamus which we are issuing. 43. As noticed above, one of the queries/issues raised in the order

dated 30th May, 2012 was as under: 44. The said question was raised as several assesses have a grievance

in spite of written letters and approaching the deductors to rectify and

correct TDS details and the deductors fail and neglect to do so as the

failure does not entail any adverse consequence or action against them.

The deductee being taxpayer is harassed but the deductor does not W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 36 of 45 suffer when the deductee does not get benefit of tax paid. 45. The response by the respondents to the said question in their

affidavit dated 28th July, 2012 reads as under: 46. The response is unfortunate and unsatisfactory. The response

purports to express complete helplessness on the part of the Revenue to

take steps and seeks to absolve them from any responsibility. This

aspect was highlighted in the order dated 31st August, 2012. 47. In the affidavit filed on 30th November, 2012 the respondents

have stated that by Finance Act 2012, Section 234E has been inserted

whereby fee of Rs.200/- per day can be levied for default of the

deductor/collector for failure to file TDS/TDS statement within due

date. Income Tax Rules, 1962 have been modified wherein deductors

of all categories are mandated to upload TDS certificates through Tax

Information Network System. The issue whether Section 272 BB can W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 37 of 45 be invoked for defaulting deductors, the respondents have stated as

under: 48. The Finance Minister in his recent speech while inaugurating the

new Central Processing Cell for Tax Deducted at Source at Aayakar

Bhawan in Ghaziabad, U.P. had emphasised the need for „technology

driven tax administration‟ and had stated as under: 49. The statement reflects the true and correct position of a pique

assessee as a deductee, who has suffered tax deduction at source, but is

not given due credit in spite of the fact that the deductor has paid the

said tax. The respondents have received their due or money but credit

is not given to the person from whose income tax has been deducted.

Denying benefit of TDS to a taxpayer because of the fault of the W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 38 of 45 deductor, which is not attributable to the deductee, causes unwarranted

harassment and inconvenience. The deductee feels cheated. The

Revenue cannot be a silence spectator, wash their hands and pretend

helplessness. The problems highlighted here are normally faced by

small or middle class taxpayers, including senior citizens as they do

not have Chartered Accountants or Advocates on their pay rolls. The

marginal amount involved in several cases and

inconvenience/harassment involved makes it unviable and futile

exercise to first approach the deductor and then the Assessing Officer.

Rectification and getting corrections made by the deductor and to get

them uploaded is not an easy task. The second phase of filing a

revised return or an application under Section 154 is equally daunting

and "expensive". Invariably the assessees will write letters or even

visit the office of the deductors, but when there is no response or

desired result, they get frustrated and suffer. This causes distrust and

feeling that the assessee has not been treated justly, fairly and in an

honest manner. In our earlier orders, we had emphasised this aspect

and asked the Board to take appropriate steps to ameliorate and help

the small taxpayers. 50. It is unfortunate that the Board did not take immediate steps

after even noticing lacuna and waited till Finance Act, 2012 , when W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 39 of 45 Section 234E was enacted. Mere writing of a letter by the Assessing

Officer to the deductor by no stretch can be treated as sufficient action

on the part of the respondents. Even this, it appears, was done in a few

cases as the respondents in the counter affidavit have stated that they

have written 20119 communications to the tax deductors, where TDS

credit claimed by the taxpayers did not match with the details loaded

by the deductors. The Act empowers and authorises the Assessing

Officer to verify the contents of the return and notices can be issued to

a third party, i.e. the deductor, to furnish information and details. The

deductor, the principal officer or person responsible for making

deduction, once issued notice to appear, in most cases, would like to

comply with the statutory requirements and also furnish details with

regard to TDS deducted from the income of the assessee. The statutory

powers given to the Assessing Officer are sufficient and should be

resorted to and the assessee cannot be left to the mercy or the sweet

will of the deductors. Therefore, we direct that when an assessee

approaches the Assessing Officer with requisite details and particulars,

the said Assessing Officer will verify whether or not the deductor has

made payment of the TDS and if the payment has been made, credit of

the same should be given to the assessee. These details or the TDS

certificate should be starting point for the Assessing Officer to W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 40 of 45 ascertain and verify the true and correct position. The Assessing

Officer will be at liberty to get in touch with the TDS circle in case he

requires clarification or confirmation. He is also at liberty to get in

touch with deductor by issuing a notice and compelling him to upload

the correct particulars/details. The said exercise must be and should be

undertaken by the Revenue, i.e. the Assessing Officer as an assessee

who suffers in such cases is not due to his fault and can justifiably feel

deceived and defrauded. We do not accept the stand of the Revenue

that they can only write a letter to the deductor to persuade him to

correct the uploaded entries or to upload the details. Power and

authority of the Assessing Officer, cannot match and are not a substitute

to the beseeching or imploring of an assessee to the deductor. The

directions given above, are in accord with the provisions of the Act,

namely, Section 133 and TDS provisions of the Act. If required and

necessary, the income tax authorities can obtain prior approval from

the Director or the Commissioner. The authorities can also examine

whether general approval can be given. The said exercise is

undertaken by the Assessing Officer while verifying or examining the

return. Section 234E will also require similar verification by the

Assessing Officer. In such cases, if required, order under Section 154 of the Act may also be passed. Circular No. 4 of 2012 will be equally W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 41 of 45 applicable. This is the seventh mandamus which we have issued. 51. The problem mentioned above will generally arise in cases prior

to financial year 2011-12 as the TDS certificate forms had undergone a

change and is now required to be down loaded from the Income Tax

Portal. 52. In some cases, it is possible that the assessee may not be able to

file his Income Tax Return because the deductor has not furnished the

TDS certificate. The assessee in question will be at liberty to

correspond with his Assessing Officer or the TDS circle pointing out

the said factual position and appropriate action, as directed in the

aforesaid paragraphs, will be taken by the Assessing Officers

concerned. 53. In the affidavit filed on 5th March, 2013, respondents have stated

as under:- 54. Steps for implementation and to ensure that credit is given to W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 42 of 45 such assessee should be taken by the respondents in this regard and for

compliance instructions should be circulated to the Assessing Officer. 55. Thus every effort and attempt must be made to ensure that the

assessee should get benefit of the TDS deducted by the deductor and

paid to the Government. It would be unfortunate and a matter of regret

if an assessee does not get credit, inspite of payment of tax. 56. That facts elucidated above, reveal that there is a communication

gap between the assesses and the respondents. We are informed that

there is an Income Tax portal where under the head „My Account‟, an

assessee can make comments and raise grievance. It may be advisable

for the respondents to examine grievances as well as the comments by

the assessee regarding the inconvenience or harassment being faced by

them. Respondents have to be responsive and must meet the genuine

aspirations and desire of the assesses. If possible, response/reply to the

e-mails should be made. Most of the mandamus/directions given

above, are in tune with what has been stated and averred by the

respondents in the counter affidavit. On some aspects, we have partly

modified what has been accepted and agreed by the respondents. We

appreciate and understand that there can be and may be some practical

difficulties or the respondents may themselves find a proper or more

appropriate solution to the same. Therefore, we permit the respondents W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 43 of 45 or the petitioner All India Federation for Tax Practitioners or others, to

move an application for modification/clarification of this order.

However, no application by an individual assessee relating to his

personal or individual grievance will be entertained. In case, there is

non compliance of the directions/ mandamus issued above, the

individual assessee will be required to approach the writ court for

appropriate order or direction. We hope and trust that the respondents

will be responsive and comply with the directions mentioned above. 57. In nutshell, we have issued the following directions:- The said direction, we understand has been implemented. (iii) With regard to past adjustments where procedure under Section
245 has not been followed, we have issued directions in paragraphs 26
to 28. (iv) With regard to the interest under Section 244 A, we have issued
directions set out in paragraphs 31 and 32 that interest should be paid
when the assessee is not at fault. (v) With regard to uncommunicated intimations under Section 143
(1) , directions are given in paragraphs 33 and 34. (vi) With regard to unverified TDS under the heading „U‟ in Form W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 44 of 45 26AS, directions have been issued in paragraph 42 for verification and
correcting unmatched challans within a time period, which should be
fixed by the Board keeping in mind the date of filing of return and
processing of return by the assessing officer. (vii) The seventh direction/mandamus is regarding credit of TDS to
an assessee when the tax deducted has been deposited with the
Revenue by the deductor. Directions in this regard have been given in
paragraphs 50 and 51. 58. The writ petitions are disposed of. The Court appreciates the

contribution and efforts of Ms. Prem Lata Bansal, Sr. Advocate, Mr.

V.P. Gupta, Advocate and Mr. Nagesh Behl, Chartered Accountant.

Mr. Sanjeev Sabharwal, senior standing counsel has also contributed

and offered valuable positive assistance to enable us to dispose of the

present writ petitions. (SANJIV KHANNA)
 JUDGE

 (SIDDHARTH MRIDUL)
 JUDGE
MARCH 14th, 2013
KKB/VKR W.P. (C) Nos. 2659/2012 & 5443/2012 Page 45 of 45