M.A. Bakshi, Vice President 1. These 4 appeals of the assessee relating to asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 and 1995-96 involving some common issues are disposed of by this consolidated order. 2. The appellant is a branch of ABN AMRO Bank NV incorporated in Netherlands, with limited liability having its original office at Singapore. In India, the appellant is registered as a scheduled bank in terms of Schedule II of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Act, 1934 . The main activities of the appellant in India comprise of accepting deposits, giving loans, discounting/collection of bills, issue of letters of credit/guarantees, executing forward transaction in foreign currencies for importers/exporters, money market lending/borrowings, investment in securities, etc., in terms of the existing rules and regulations governing such transactions. In the years under consideration, the appellant had three branches in India at Mumbai, Kolkata and New Delhi. There is an agreement between India and Netherlands for Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion (hereinafter called as DTAA). Article 7 of the DTAA provides for taxation in India of a foreign enterprise in respect of profits attributable to its permanent establishment (hereinafter referred to as PE) in India. Since the ABN AMRO Bank NV was having a PE in India, the appellant is liable to tax in respect of income attributable to the PE. 3. One of the common issues involved in all the four assessment years is relating to deduction on account of remuneration paid to the expatriate employees outside India for the services rendered in India. Tax deducted at source and paid in previous year relevant to asst. yr. 1995-96 is also claimed as a deduction in the respective assessment years. Interest under Section 201(1A) for delayed payment of TDS paid in 1995-96 is subject-matter of dispute in the appeal for asst. yr. 1995-96 only. By way of additional ground of appeal and as an alternative claim, the appellant has claimed deduction of entire remuneration and TDS pertaining to asst. yrs. 1990-91 to 1995-96 in asst. yr. 1995-96. 4. The relevant grounds of appeal for the respective assessment years are reproduced hereunder : Asst yr. 1993-94 : Asst. yr. 1994-95 : Asst. yr. 1995-96 : 5. Following additional ground of appeal has been raised for asst. yr. 1995-96 : Since the additional ground "of appeal is purely legal in nature and no investigation of facts is required, we admit the same for consideration. 6. We now proceed to dispose of the above grounds simultaneously. Under Section 192 of the IT Act 1961, the assessee was required to deduct tax from the salary paid to their expatriate employees. Some of the expatriate employees having rendered services in India, had received their remuneration outside India. It is not disputed that the income derived by such expatriate employees from the services rendered in India is liable to tax in India notwithstanding the fact that they received their remuneration outside India. The assessee had failed to deduct tax from the remuneration paid to the said expatriate employees. Whereas the remuneration paid to the expatriate employees in India had been taken into account in the books of account of the assessee relevant to the PE, the remuneration paid to the offshore employees who had rendered services in India but whose remuneration was paid abroad, had been debited in the books of account of head office. As pointed out earlier, the assessee-bank had failed to deduct taxes under Section 192 in respect of remuneration of such employees paid outside India for services rendered in India. The CBDT, in order to encourage the compliance in respect of TDS, issued Circular No. 685, dt. 20th June, 1994 providing exemption from penalty and prosecution to those employers who paid the tax deducted/deductible at source by the specified date in the circular. The said circular is quoted for ready reference : This was followed by another circular being Circular No. 686, dt. 12th Aug., 1994, which reads as under : 7. The assessee took advantage of the circular and paid a sum of Rs. 2,06,54,499 detailed below as tax deducted at source and interest under Section 201(1A) for asst. yrs. 1990-91 to 1995-96. The net offshore remuneration in respect of expatriate employees is also indicated in the statement as under: Tax (As TDS 3,61,635 10,54,924 29,86,963 49,44,312 35,86,781 36,15,895 1,65,50,510
arrears)
Int.u/s. 201 2,45,859 5,80,300 12,19,063 13,24,577 6,81,031 53,159 41,03,989
 _________ _________ __________ __________ _________ _________ __________
Sub Total 6,07,494 16,35,224 42,06,026 62,68,889 42,67,812 36,69,054 2,06,54,499

Net offshore 3,27,276 9,10,803 23,87,325 61,90,206 47,16,025 52,35,222 1,97,66,857
remuneration paid
in Netherlands
 __________ __________ _________ __________ _________ _________ ___________
Total 9,34,770 25,46,027 65,93,351 124,59,095 89,83,837 89,04,276 4,04,21,356 8. For asst. yr. 1995-96, the assessee had charged the total amount of Rs. 2,06,54,499 to the P&L a/c. However, the said amount was added back in the statement of income. A deduction of Rs. 89,04,276 was claimed on account of the remuneration, TDS and interest pertaining to the asst. yr. 1995-96 in the statement of account. 9. For asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95, the appellant had not made any claim for remuneration or tax component in the returns of income. So, however, for asst. yr. 1992-93, the assessee made claim before the AO in regard to the remuneration and tax deducted at source in respect of expatriate employees having rendered services in India for which the payment had been made abroad, vide letter dt. 13th Jan., 1995. The AO rejected the claim while making the assessment. The relevant portion of the assessment order is reproduced hereunder : We wish to submit that such remuneration to expatriates offshore is expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for our business purposes in India and as such is allowable deduction from our taxable income in India. We wish to further submit that the fact that such remuneration was not debited in our books of account in India, would not come in the way of our claiming the said deduction. In this connection, we place reliance on the Supreme Court decision in the case of Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. CIT . Accordingly, we have now claimed the said deduction in the revised computation of total income to the extent of amount of such remuneration pertaining to fiscal year 1992-93 (relevant to the asst. yr. 1993-94) amounting to Rs. 23,87,325.' (ii) Additional remuneration paid to expatriates towards taxes--Rs. 49,44,312 : 12. For asst. yr. 1995-96, in the assessment order, the AO has mentioned that the assessee had in course of assessment proceedings claimed deduction of the entire amount of Rs. 2,06,54,499 on the basis of Section 43B of the IT Act, 1961. However, the AO disallowed the claim of the assessee relating to the earlier years for the following reasons : 13. In regard to the disallowance of Rs. 89,04,296 pertaining to the asst. yr. 1995-96, the AO disallowed the claim for the following reasons : The AO has further observed in the assessment order as under : 14. The CIT(A) has confirmed the disallowance. The relevant portion of the order being paras 8, 9 and 10 are reproduced hereunder : 9. Keeping in view the detailed reasons given by the AO and also after carefully examining the arguments put forward by the appellant-company, I am of the opinion that the AO was perfectly justified in disallowing the sum of Rs. 89,04,276. The addition made by the AO is, therefore, confirmed. 10. Ground No. 4(b) of appeal relates to the AO rejecting the claim of the appellant for deduction of the entire amount of Rs. 2,06,54,499 being tax and interest on offshore remuneration of the expatriate employees for all the assessment years including the current assessment year paid in the current assessment year. The facts are that CBDT had launched a scheme whereby defaulters of TDS in terms of salary and remuneration paid to expatriate employees abroad tax could be paid by the employer. The appellant-company took advantage of this scheme and paid tax and interest due thereupon for several assessment years with respect to payment made to its expatriate employees to save itself from the rigour of prosecution, although in other sense of the term, these taxes were due and collectable from the expatriate employees from whom the appellant-company in earlier years had failed to collect taxes in accordance with the Indian law and pay the same. Even now, I will say that these taxes have been paid purely on behalf of the expatriate employees and if there is any liability for payment of the same to the bank it rests on those expatriate employees. The appellant cannot say that this should be treated as revenue expenditure. Therefore for the detailed reasons given above, I am of the opinion that the taxes paid by the appellant-company because of its own fault in not collecting taxes from its expatriate employees in time and depositing the same with the Government of India cannot be allowed as a revenue expenditure. The AO was perfectly justified in disallowing the same and, therefore, the addition of Rs. 2,06,54,499 is sustained." 15. The learned counsel for the assessee contended that the assessee is entitled to deduction on account of remuneration paid to expatriate employees outside India for the services rendered in India. Since the expenditure is directly related to PE in India, deduction is allowable as expenses pertaining to the PE. It was pointed out that the salary paid to the employees does not fall within the ambit of Section 44C as head office expenses. The learned counsel pointed out that the 'head office expenditure' is defined to mean executive and general administration expenditure incurred by the assessee outside India, including specified expenses referred to in the definition under Expln. (iv) to Section 44C of the IT Act. It was further pointed out that similar issue had come up for consideration of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for the asst. yr. 1996-97 in ITA No. 692/Cal/2000, dt. 30th March, 2001 and the same has been decided in favour of the assessee. It was, accordingly, pleaded that the deduction may be allowed to the assessee either in the year to which the remuneration, etc., pertains to or in the year the tax has been deducted and paid to the Government of India. In this connection our attention was invited to Section 40(a) which prohibits the allowance on account of fee for technical services or other sums chargeable which is payable outside India on which tax has not been paid or deducted under Chapter XVII-B. The learned counsel pointed out that the proviso to the said section provides for a deduction in the year in which such tax has been paid or deducted. It was," accordingly, pleaded that the deduction for the entire amount may be allowed to the assessee in the asst. yr. 1995-96 as the tax has been deducted and paid in the previous year relevant to the said assessment year. 16. The learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand, relied upon the orders of the Revenue authorities. Our attention was invited particularly to the reasons given by the AO in asst. yr. 1995-96 for making the disallowance. 17. We have given our careful consideration to the rival contentions. We propose to consider the dispute separately under three heads, viz., (a) remuneration; (b) tax deducted at source; and (3) interest. First we take up the issue relating to remuneration. Remuneration : 18. The assessee had failed to deduct tax in respect of the remuneration paid to the expatriate employees outside India and after taking advantage of the amnesty granted by the Government of India in respect of penalty and prosecution, had deposited the tax deductible from such expatriate employees. For asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95, no deduction, either in respect of remuneration or tax payment, was claimed in the original returns. So, however, after having paid the tax, deduction was claimed in course of the assessment proceedings for the respective assessment years. Article 7 of the DTAA between India and Netherlands provides for taxation of income of the PE. The said article also provides certain guidelines for determination of the profits of PE for the purpose of taxation in India. It will be useful to reproduce paras 2 and 3(a) of Article 7 of the DTAA : 19. It is evident from above that para 2 of Article 7 provides that where an enterprise of one of the States carries on business in the other State through a PE situated therein, there shall in each State be attributed to that PE the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is PE. 20. Para 3(a) of Article 7 provides that in determining the profits of a PE, there shall be allowed as deductions, expenses which are incurred for the purposes of the PE including executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the PE is situated or elsewhere, in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the taxation laws of that State. Thus, it is evident from the above quoted article of the DTAA that any expenditure which is attributable to PE is to be taken into consideration for the purpose of computation of profits of the PE. We have, therefore, no doubt in our minds that the assessee is entitled to deduction in respect of the remuneration paid to the expatriate employees having rendered services in India notwithstanding the fact that the payment for such remuneration was paid to them outside India. This view has also been taken by the co-ordinate Bench in the assessee's own case for the asst. yr. 1996-97 and the issue has been decided vide paras 12 and 13 of the order in ITA No. 692/Cal/2000, dt. 30th March, 2001. The relevant portion of the said order of the Tribunal is reproduced hereunder : 21. It is evident from the above order of the Tribunal that the claim of the assessee in regard to the payment of remuneration to the expatriate employees rendering whole time services in India throughout the accounting year has been accepted in principle as allowable deduction in computing the profits of the PE. This is, however, with the rider that such payment is not taken into account in working out the deduction under Section 44C . We adopt the above direction in regard to the remuneration paid to the expatriate employees for the whole time services rendered in India, subject to further rider placed under provisions of Section 40(a) of the IT Act, 1961. We direct the AO to consider the claim of the assessee for asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94 and 1994-95 as under : Once the AO is satisfied that the assessee is entitled to deduction in respect of remuneration, the claim of the assessee shall have to be dealt with in accordance with Section 40 . Relevant portion of Section 40(a) is reproduced hereunder : It may be pointed but that Section 44C provides for restriction for the allowance of head office expenses. The maximum deduction permissible is 5 per cent of the adjusted total income. The AO has allowed straightway deduction of 5 per cent and there is no reference of the computation of head office expenses which presumably are more than 5 per cent of the adjusted total income. The AO shall accordingly, verify the claim in accordance with the provisions of Section 44C for taking a decision in the light of the directions of the Tribunal in assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) which we have adopted for the years under appeal. 22. The aforementioned direction is valid for the offshore remuneration pertaining to asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 and 1995-96. In case after verification the AO comes to the conclusion that the assessee has not taken the amount of remuneration into consideration in working out the deduction under Section 44C , the claim would in principle be permissible in the respective assessment years. So, however, deduction has got to be allowed, as already pointed out, in accordance with Section 40(a) read with proviso. The tax not having been deducted at source in the respective assessment years but having been paid in asst. yr. 1995-96, the deduction in respect of remuneration is allowable in the year of payment, i.e., asst. yr. 1995-96. This takes care of part of the additional ground raised by the assessee before us in asst. yr. 1995-96, whereby the deduction in respect of the remuneration and tax component pertaining to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 is claimed as deduction in asst. yr. 1995-96. For asst. yr. 1995-96, tax has been paid by the assessee in the same assessment year. Therefore, the prohibition under Section 40(a) is not attracted. The claim of the assessee shall be considered accordingly. We direct accordingly. 23. Tax deducted at source in respect of remuneration paid outside India to the expatriate employees : 24. It is evident from above that the salary paid to the expatriate employees is net of taxes. The assessee had neither paid nor deducted taxes in asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95. However, in asst. yr. 1995-96, the assessee has paid the tax deductible at source. Therefore, in principle the assessee would be entitled to deduction in respect of the tax component of the salary also if the salary is found to be deductible as per the directions of the Tribunal for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra), which has also been adopted by us. So, however, no deduction will be permissible in asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 by operation of Section 40(a)(i) of the IT Act, 1961. The claim for the said assessment years shall have to be disallowed for the reason of non-deduction of tax. So, however, the deduction shall have to be considered for asst. yr. 1995-96 as per proviso to Section 40(a)(i) . 25. Thus, subject to verification that the claim of remuneration and tax deductible has not been taken into account under Section 44C in regard to the expatriate employees, the deduction relating to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 would be permissible in asst. yr. 1995-96 as per proviso to Section 40(a)(i) . For asst. yr. 1995-96, the assessee has paid the tax and, therefore, Section 40(a) is not attracted. The assessee shall be entitled to deduction in respect of remuneration as well as the tax paid pertaining to asst. yr. 1995-96. It is pertinent to mention that the objection raised by the Revenue about the assessee having failed to establish as to whether the services have been rendered by the expatriate employees in regard to the PE of the assessee in India, we find, is uncalled for. If the employees have not rendered services in India, for which the remuneration had been received abroad, then how is it that the assessee was under an obligation to deduct tax from their remuneration. The very fact that the assessee has accepted its obligation to deduct taxes from the salary paid to the expatriate employees is, in our view, sufficient to infer that the services had been rendered by them in India. 26. The second objection raised by the Revenue is that the assessee has only paid the tax deducted at source and not the tax on behalf of the expatriate employees. This objection is also, in our view, unfounded. Section 199 provides that any deduction made in accordance with provisions of Section 192 and paid to the Central Government shall be treated as a payment of tax on behalf of the person from whose income deduction is made. Under Section 205 of the IT Act, 1961, there is a bar for the Revenue to demand tax from the assessee to the extent the amount has been deducted from his income. Thus, the tax deducted at source by the assessee and paid to the Government is treated as the tax paid on behalf of the expatriate employees. It is true that the expatriate employees have a right to demand refund of the tax deducted at source if not found chargeable in the assessment in their hands. However, in this case the assessee has paid remuneration net of tax. Therefore, refund, if any, claimed on behalf of the expatriate employees would be assessable to tax in the year of refund in the hands of the appellant. Therefore, the objection of the Revenue is overruled. We, accordingly, direct the AO to consider the claim of the assessee in regard to the remuneration and the taxes paid relating to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1995-96 in asst. yr. 1995-96 in accordance with the directions contained in this order. 27. In asst. yr. 1995-96, the assessee has also claimed a deduction for remuneration and tax paid in regard to the asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92. No evidence has been placed on record to establish that the assessee had at any stage made the claim for deduction in the said assessment years. In principle, the claim of the assessee has got to be considered in the assessment year to which the claim pertains to. It is only when the claim is considered and found allowable but for provisions of Section 40(a) that the same can be allowed in the year of payment. Since the claim for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 is not established to have been made and considered in earlier years, the benefit is not permissible in asst. yr. 1995-96 merely because the tax has been paid in the year under appeal. The benefit of the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) is thus not available to the assessee for which no claim is made in the respective assessment years. Therefore, the claim of the assessee does not fall for consideration in asst. yr. 1995-96 on the basis of provisions of Section 40(a) read with proviso. The disallowance pertaining to asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 in regard to the remuneration and the tax component in asst. yr. 1995-96 is upheld. 28. Interest : 29. We now proceed to consider if the claim is otherwise allowable. At the cost of repetition, it is stated that the assessee had not deducted tax in respect of remuneration paid to expatriate employees for the services rendered in India, for which the payment was made abroad by the head office. The interest was paid under Section 201 of the IT Act on account of non-deduction and non-payment of the tax deducted at source. The deduction was claimed in asst. yr. 1995-96 which has been disallowed. The learned counsel for the assessee contended that the assessee is entitled to deduction in respect of interest paid under Section 201(1A) for delayed payment of TDS as the same is compensatory and not penal in character. In this connection reliance is placed on the decisions of the Supreme Court in the cases of Mahalakshmi Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT , Prakash Cotton Mills (P) Ltd. v. CIT and CIT v. Ahmedabad Cotton Mfg. Co. Ltd. and Ors. . The learned counsel contended that Section 221 provides for payment of penalty in the event of default for non-payment of TDS. Section 271C provides for penalty for non-deduction of tax. Section 201(1A) provides for payment of interest. According to the learned counsel, it is evident from the aforesaid provisions of the Act that the interest under Section 201(1A) is purely compensatory and not penal in character. According to him, since the interest has been paid in the year under appeal, the same is allowable as a deduction in the year of payment by virtue of Section 40(a)(i) as part of remuneration. The learned counsel contended that the deduction may be considered under Section 37 for the expenditure having been incurred for the purposes of business. 30. The learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand, contended that the assessee is not entitled to deduction on account of interest for non-deduction of tax and non-payment of the same as it is neither part of remuneration nor as an expenditure incurred for purposes of business. 31. We have given our careful consideration to the rival contentions. The issue relating to the claim of interest is peculiar in this case insofar as the interest is on account of income-tax, which the assessee was required to deduct at source and pay to the Government. We have dealt with this issue relating to the remuneration and tax component on the remuneration and in principle agreed that the assessee would be entitled to deduction subject to the verification as laid down in the order. It would appear that when the assessee is entitled to deduction on account of income-tax, the same principle would apply to the interest charged for non-payment of tax--the interest being compensatory in nature. 32. For appreciation of the issue in proper perspective, it would be relevant to consider as to whether the income-tax is allowable as a deduction. If income-tax is allowable as a deduction, the interest payable on such tax being compensatory in nature may qualify for deduction. Interest on sales-tax of compensatory nature is allowable as a deduction not merely because it is not penal in character but because the sales-tax is chargeable on the commodities sold by the assessee as an incidence of business. The interest is thus allowable as part of tax. In this case the assessee has paid remuneration to the expatriate employees. The assessee as an employer has undertaken to pay taxes on their behalf. Since the income of the expatriate employees is liable to tax, the assessee would be obliged to file the returns of income and discharge the obligations which, but for the agreement of employment with the assessee, the expatriate employees had to discharge. The monetary consequence of failure to discharge the obligation on behalf of the expatriate employees may, in certain circumstances, qualify for deduction as an incidence of business. Section 17(2)(iv) treats any sum paid by the employer in respect of any obligation which, but for such payment, would have been payable by the employee as perquisite assessable in the hands of the employee. So, however, it is interesting to note that in this case the assessee has not discharged the obligation on behalf of the expatriate employees insofar as taxes have not been paid as an obligation on behalf of the employees. The assessee has neither filed the returns nor has any assessment made. No interest has been charged by the Revenue for non-payment of taxes by the employees. That is one aspect of the matter. 33. The other side of the matter is that the assessee was under a statutory obligation to deduct tax from the remuneration paid/payable to the nonresident expatriate employees and pay the same to the Government. This is an independent statutory obligation imposed upon the assessee. The tax deducted at source by the assessee and payment thereof to the Government does not by itself qualify for deduction as business expenditure by reason of the compliance of statutory obligation made by the assessee. It is important to bear in mind that the deduction of tax claimed by the assessee is as part of the agreement for payment of remuneration net of salary and not as part of the fulfillment of the statutory obligation. For better appreciation of this issue, relevant sections may be quoted hereunder : 34. It is noteworthy from abovementioned provisions of the Act that the interest levied by the Department is for the assessee having been treated as the "assessee-in-default" for the payment of tax deductible at source. This obligation is independent of the obligation of the assessee as an agent of the expatriate employees. Therefore, the payment of interest does not partake the character of the part of the remuneration package in respect of the expatriate employees. As already pointed out, the interest has been paid as the assessee-in-default. Since the assessee is not entitled to deduction in respect of the tax deducted at source per se, as such the interest paid for the default in payment of tax deducted/deductible at source also does not qualify for deduction. Reference may be useful to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Jubilee Investments & Industries Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT and Ors. . Their Lordships observed as under : Reference may be made to the definition of tax under the DTAA. Article 3(d) reads as under : It is evident from the above definition that even DTAA does not cover such a levy. It may also be pertinent to mention that income-tax paid by the assessee does not qualify for deduction as such. This view is supported by the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Smt. Padmavati Jaikrishna v. Addl . CIT . In the case of East India Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. CIT their Lordships of the Supreme Court held that the interest paid on the overdraft utilized for payment of income-tax is also not allowable as a deduction as it is not an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purposes of business as contemplated by Sub-section (1) of Section 37 of the IT Act, 1961. On the basis of the above principle of law, the interest paid by the assessee as "an assessee-in-default of the tax" is not eligible for deduction as expenses incurred for purposes of business. The decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the assessee are accordingly inapplicable to the facts of this case. 35. We now deal with the remaining grounds of appeal for respective assessment years. Asst. yr. 1995-96 : The above ground has not been pressed before us and the same is, accordingly, dismissed as not pressed. 36. The second ground of appeal raised by the assessee is as under : The assessee had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 19,54,892 on account of entertainment. 50 per cent of the said expenditure was treated as attributable to employees and the balance of Rs. 9,72,446 was offered for taxation in the return of income. However, during the course of assessment proceedings, the assessee claimed that, keeping in view the fact that the employees of the assessee accompanied the customers, deduction to the extent of 50 per cent may be allowed as attributable to employee not amounting to entertainment expenses. The AO did not accept this claim of the assessee as according to him there was no evidence as to how many persons were entertained and how many employees accompanied them and what was the expenditure incurred by employees on guests separately. The AO further held that the guests having been entertained outside the work place, no allowance could be made under Clause (iii) to Explanation to Section 37(2) . Therefore, no deduction was allowed out of Rs. 9,72,466 offered for taxation in the return of income. The AO also made a disallowance of Rs. 1,00,000 out of the remaining of Rs. 9,72,446 treated as entertainment expenses pertaining to the employees exclusively as per the past history of the case. The CIT(A) has confirmed the disallowance of Rs. 9,72,446 (wrongly mentioned as Rs. 9,77,446). However, in respect of the estimated expenses of Rs. 1 lakh, a relief of Rs. 30,000 has been allowed and disallowance of Rs. 70,000 sustained. Thus, the total disallowance under the head 'entertainment expenses' after the order of the CIT(A) is of Rs. 10,42,446. 37. It has been brought to our notice that similar issue had come up for consideration of the Tribunal in an appeal of the assessee for asst. yr. 1996-97 in ITA No. 692/Cal/2000 and vide order dt. 30th March, 2001, the Tribunal has accepted 25 per cent of the expenses as attributable to employees participation. Respectfully following the aforementioned decision of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97, we hold that 25 per cent of the entertainment expenses are attributable to the employees participation in entertaining the guests and by virtue of Section 37(2) read with Expln. (iii), the said amount is outside the purview of entertainment expenses. Learned counsel for the assessee pleaded that it may be clarified as to whether 25 per cent disallowance is with reference to Rs. 19,53,892 or 25 per cent of the disallowed portion of entertainment expenses. We hereby clarify that the relief allowable to the assessee is 25 per cent of Rs. 10,42,446 and not 25 per cent of Rs. 19,54,892. It may be pointed out that out of the total amount of Rs. 19,54,892 debited under the head 'entertainment expenses', the assessee has taken out a sum of Rs. 9,72,446 as entertainment expenses exclusively pertaining to the employees. The CIT(A) has sustained a disallowance of Rs. 70,000 out of the said amount. Thus, the total entertainment expenses disallowed under Section 37(2) would work out to Rs. 9,72,446 + Rs. 70,000, aggregating to Rs. 10,42,446. This amount pertains to the entertainment expenses of customers. The claim of the assessee that employees have also participated in entertaining the customers has been accepted to the extent of 25 per cent by the Tribunal. Therefore, the assessee would be entitled to the deduction to the extent of 25 per cent out of the amount treated as entertainment expenses pertaining to customers. This is how the direction to allow 25 per cent of Rs. 10,42,446 is justified. We, therefore, direct the AO to allow relief of Rs. 2,60,610 to the assessee. The ground relating to disallowance of Rs. 70,000 also stands disposed of by respectfully following the order of the co-ordinate Bench for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) subject to 25 per cent relief as indicated above. Asst. yrs. 1992-93. 1993-94 and 1994-95 : 38. The following common grounds of appeal relating to rate of tax applicable in the case of the appellant-company have been raised : 39. The relevant facts relating to this issue are that the AO had levied tax in this case at the rates applicable to domestic companies. However, in course of appellate proceedings before the CIT(A) against the assessments made by the AO, it was felt that the rate of tax applicable in the case of the assessee was as applicable to foreign companies. The CIT(A) had accordingly issued a show-cause notice for enhancement to the assessee. Objections were filed by the assessee to the proposed action. It was claimed by the assessee that the issue had been considered by the Tribunal in assessee's own case in ITA No. 692/Cal/2000, dt. 30th March, 2001, and that for asst. yr. 1991-92, the rate of tax was charged as applicable to domestic companies. The CIT(A) has referred to the decision of the Tribunal in favour of the assessee, but has pointed out that after the decision of the Tribunal, there has been amendment by the Finance Act of 2001, in Section 90 of the IT Act, 1961, by virtue of which an Explanation to Section 90(2) was added. The CIT(A) has on the basis of the said Explanation, which is applicable retrospectively with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962, held that the assessee was liable to tax at the rates applicable to foreign companies. 40. The learned counsel for the assessee contended that the CIT(A) was not justified in invoking his powers under Section 251 insofar as the issue was covered by the CBDT Instruction No. 500/45/94-FTD, dt. 21st Nov., 1994 and also the decision of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for the asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra). It was contended that the appeal of the assessee before the CIT(A) was in regard to the income assessed and, therefore, he had no power to disturb the rate of tax levied by the AO. The learned counsel invited our attention to Article 24 of the DTAA which provides for non-discrimination of taxation on PE with the taxation on enterprises of that State. Since the Indian banks were paying tax at the rates applicable to domestic companies, the appellant could not be subjected to tax at a higher rate than applicable to Indian companies, it was contended. In this connection reference was made to the decision of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) where the issue has been decided in favour of the assessee. 41. Our attention was also invited to D.O. No. 500/45/94-FTD, dt. 21st. Nov., 1994, issued by the CBDT addressing the Chief CIT-II, whereby the Board expressed the view that the assessee-bank was liable to tax at the same rate as applicable to Indian companies. The learned counsel further pointed out that the said letter has been modified by the Board vide subsequent letter dt. 24th March, 2000. It has been clarified therein that action could be taken by the AO for application of higher rate of tax in respect of the respective assessment years barring the years covered by the aforementioned letter dt. 21st. Nov., 1994. Our attention was invited to Article 25 of DTAA which provides for mutual agreement procedure in the event of any dispute relating to taxation contrary to the provisions of the Convention. Sri Dastur pointed out that the D.O. No. 500/45/94-FTD, dt. 21st Nov., 1994, was issued by the Board in response to reference from Embassy of Netherlands and, therefore, by virtue of the provisions of DTAA Article 25 , any decision reached after following the procedure is binding upon both the parties and in the event of any conflict with the domestic law of the State, such an agreement would prevail. The learned counsel pointed out that reference for mutual agreement is required to be made to the competent authority and the competent authority is defined to mean the Central Government or any authorized representative of the Central Government. Since the CBDT is authorized to issue instructions, the circular issued by it relating to the rate of tax applicable in the case of the appellant has the effect of mutual agreement within the meaning of Article 25 of the DTAA, it was contended. 42. Sri Dastur, as an alternative to the aforementioned argument, contended that in any case the circulars of the Board are binding upon the Revenue authorities working under their jurisdiction. Relying upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Ellerman Lines Ltd. v. CIT , it was contended that even the letters issued by the Board are considered as circulars having a binding force under Section 119 of the IT Act, 1961. It was further contended that the withdrawal of the circular issued by the Board is effective prospectively and not retrospectively. In this connection reliance was placed on the decision of Bombay High Court in the case of Unit Trust of India and Anr. v. P.K. Unny, ITO and Ors. . The learned counsel further invited our attention to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of UCO Bank v. CIT in support of the contention that the CBDT has the power to issue circulars having effect of relaxing the rigour of law and also providing of uniform application of law consonant with concept of income. Such circulars are not to be treated as inconsistent with provisions of the statute. Their Lordships have further held that the circulars issued by the Board are binding on the parties. Reference was also made to Circular No. 333, dt. 2nd April, 1982, by virtue of which the CBDT has clarified that in the event of conflict between the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 , and the provisions of DTAA, the provisions of DTAA would prevail over the provisions of the IT Act . According to the learned counsel for the assesses, Explanation to Section 90 incorporated by the Finance Act, 2001 , with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962, is inapplicable in view of the clarification of the CBDT relating to the rate of tax chargeable in the case of the appellant. 43. Sri Dastur further contended that, assuming that the Explanation to Section 90 is applicable in contrast to the circulars of the Board, the said Explanation is inapplicable in view of the fact that the foreign company cannot fulfill the condition of making prescribed arrangement for declaration and payment within India, of the dividends payable out of its income in India. Our attention was also invited to Rule 27 of IT Rules, 1962, in support of the above submission. The learned counsel contended that the Explanation does not make any sense insofar as the prescribed arrangement for declaration and payment within India of the dividends payable out of its income in India cannot be fulfilled. Sri Dastur contended that the CIT(A) has enhanced the rate of tax without the aid of the Explanation when the Tribunal in assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) had decided the issue in favour of the assessee. Sri Dastur further contended that the reference to the decision of the Authority for Advance Ruling was misplaced as the said decision has been set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Societe Generale v. CIT . It was pointed out that the Tribunal in assessee's own case has decided the issue in favour of the Revenue in respect of Article 24(1) of the DTAA. So, however, the claim of the assessee under Article 24(2) has been upheld. It was, accordingly, pleaded that the decision of the CIT(A) in regard to the application of higher rate of tax in the case of appellant may be quashed. 44. The learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand, contended that the issue relating to the rate of tax is to be decided in the light of the Explanation to Section 90(2) inserted by Finance Act, 2001 , with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962. It is well settled law, according to the learned Departmental Representative, that in the event of conflict between a treaty and the statutory law, the statutory law will prevail. It was further contended that Section 90 is an enabling provision for entering into agreements with other countries for double taxation avoidance, etc. It was contended that the CIT(A) exercises his powers co-terminus with the AO, as held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Kanpur Coal Syndicate and, therefore, the CIT(A) had the power to enhance the rate of tax applicable in the case of the assessee. Referring to the contention on behalf of the assessee that the taxation of the appellant was governed by the CBDT circulars, it was contended that the letters issued by the Board do not partake the character of circulars. In this connection, reliance was placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala and Ors. and that of the Delhi High Court in the case of Geep Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. CBDT . It was further contended that the circulars of the Board generally indicate the source of power. But in the letters issued by the CBDT expressing an opinion, no source is mentioned and as such these letters do not have the force of circulars issued by the Board. Reliance has been placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Kerala Financial Corporation v. CIT . It was pointed out that the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Unit Trust of India and Anr. v. P.K. Unny, ITO and Ors. (supra) was relating to a different issue and the observations at best can be taken as obiter and not ratio decidendi. In any case, the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala and Ors. (supra) prevail over the decision of the Bombay High Court. Referring to the non-discriminative clause under Article 24 of DTAA, it was contended that non-discriminative clause applies amongst the equals. In regard to Article 25 , the learned Departmental Representative contended that the mutual agreement has got to be arrived at by following a procedure and reference has got to be made with competent authorities. Mere letter of the CBDT seeking opinion about the applicability of the rate of tax does not take the character of mutual agreement. 45. In counter-reply, the learned counsel for the assessee relied upon the decision of the Calcutta Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Dy. CIT v. ITC Ltd. (2002) 76 TTJ (Cal) 323 : (2002) 82 ITD 239 (Cal) at p. 245 in support of the contention that in the event of conflict between the provisions of DTAA and the IT Act, the provisions of the DTAA shall prevail. Reference was also made to Section 90(2) of the IT Act, 1961, which was inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w.e.f. 1st April, 1972, which clearly provides that in the event of conflict between the provisions of the Act and the DTAA, the provisions more beneficial to the assessee shall apply. The learned counsel also relied upon the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT v. Visakhapatnam Port Trust in support of the contention that the mutual agreements under the DTAA have a binding force. Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Elphinstone Spg. & Wvg. Mills Co. Ltd. in support of the contention that if the legislature uses inappropriate language in a Statute, such provisions of law are ineffective. The decisions cited on behalf of the Revenue, according to the learned counsel, are distinguishable on facts. It was, accordingly, pleaded that the appeal of the appellant on this ground may be accepted. 46. We have given our careful consideration to the rival contentions. The issue relating to the applicability of rate of tax in the case of the assessee had come up for consideration of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra). The Tribunal vide order, dt. 30th March, 2001, in para 23 relating to applicability of Article 24(1) held--"We are of the opinion (as discussed above) that the assessee-company cannot be considered to be in the same circumstances as an Indian company in view of the fact that the scope of taxation of the Indian company is wider enough than that of a non-resident company like the assessee." However, the contention on behalf of the assessee was accepted to be covered under Article 24(2) of DTAA. Para 28 of the order of the Tribunal is quoted as under : 47. The decision of the Tribunal has been arrived at after consideration of the detailed arguments advanced on behalf of the assessee which have been reiterated before us. We would have no difficulty in following the elaborate decision of our co-ordinate Bench, but for the amendment in Section 90 of the IT Act, 1961, by the Finance Act, 2001 , with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962. We, therefore, do not consider it necessary to deal with the contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee without taking into account the above amendment in Section 90 . We consider it necessary to examine the effect of the amendment of Section 90 in regard to the application of rate of tax. 48. It will be useful to quote Section 90 as under : The following Explanation was inserted by the Finance Act, 2001 , with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962 : 49. Before considering the claim of the assessee in the light of the amendment of Section 90 , with retrospective effect from. 1st April, 1962, we consider it useful to keep in mind the applicability of the Indian tax laws vis-a-vis DTAA with the foreign country. In this connection reference to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Gramophone Co. of India Ltd. v. Birendra Bahadur Pandey and Ors. is relevant. In this case, their Lordships of the Supreme Court held that in the event of conflict between international law, the Court must follow municipal law. The relevant para 5 is quoted hereunder for the sake of reference : 50. Section 90 of the IT Act empowers the Central Government to enter into an agreement with the Government of any country outside India for granting of relief or for avoidance of double taxation of income, etc. Thus, the source of DTAA with Netherlands is Section 90 of the IT Act, 1961. Section 90 has been quoted in para 48 above. 51. It is noteworthy that Sub-section (2) of Section 90 provides for application of beneficial provisions of the agreement in contrast to the contrary provisions of the IT Act, 1961 . It has, however, to be borne in mind that in the event of there being no conflict between the provisions of the DTAA and the IT Act, 1961, the effect shall have to be given to the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 . It is only when there is a conflict between the provisions of the agreements in contrast with the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 , that the beneficial treatment is to be given as per Section 90(2) of the IT Act, 1961. In this connection, circular of the CBDT, being No. 333, dt. 2nd April, 1982, also clarifies the position of law, which is quoted hereunder : 52. As already pointed out, an agreement for avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with Netherlands was executed between the Republic of India and the Kingdom of Netherlands which was notified vide Notification No. 382(E), dt. 27th March 1989, and amended by Notification No. SO 693(E), dt. 30th Aug., 1999. This agreement is available in (1989) 177 ITR (St) 72. The Notification gives the source of the agreement, i.e., Section 90 of the IT Act, 1961, and similar provision under the Companies Profits (Surtax) Act and WT Act . Thus, it is evident that the DTAA derives its source from the IT Act, 1961 , itself. It overrides the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 , within the limits provided under the said Act. The limit provided under the Act, as pointed out earlier, is that in the event of conflict between the provisions of the DTAA and the provisions of the IT Act , the beneficial provision of the Act shall prevail in regard to the taxation of the subjects. It thus becomes abundantly clear that when there is no conflict between the DTAA and the IT Act, 1961, in regard to any aspect of the matter, the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 , shall have to be implemented with full force. Section 90 was amended, as pointed out earlier, by the Finance Act, 2001 with retrospective effect from 1st April, 1962, by incorporation of the Explanation which has been quoted in para 48 above. At this stage it will be relevant to refer to Article 24 of the DTAA, which reads as under : 53. The Tribunal in the assessee's own case for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) has held that Article 24 , para 1 is not applicable in the case of the appellant. However, the Tribunal has expressed the view that Article 24(2) applies in the case of the appellant. However, Explanation to Section 90 specifically provides that the charge of tax in respect of the foreign company at the rate higher than the rate at which a domestic company is chargeable shall not be regarded as less favourable charge. In the DTAA, there is no definition of "less favourable charge". Therefore, the Explanation to Section 90 cannot be said to be in conflict with the provisions of the DTAA. On the facts and in the circumstances of this case, there is no escape from the conclusion that there is no conflict between the provisions of the DTAA and the IT Act, 1961, in regard to the non-discrimination. 54. As has been pointed out earlier, in the provisions of DTAA, incorporation of specific provisions contrary to the provisions of the IT Act, 1961 , are to prevail insofar as such incorporation is authorized under the IT Act, 1961 itself. However, in regard to the subsequent amendments, the only requirement is to notify the; amendments to the respective countries and in the event of there being no conflict, the amended provisions shall have to be given effect to. In this connection, it will be relevant to refer to Article 2 , para 4 of the DTAA which reads as under : (Emphasis, italicised in print, supplied) 55. It is thus evident that even the DTAA recognizes the fact that the amendments effected by the respective legislatures after the execution of the DTAA are not affected insofar as they are not repugnant to the specific provisions of the DTAA. In this view of the matter, the amendment in Section 90 is applicable in this case with retrospective effect insofar as it is not in conflict with the provisions of DTAA. 56. The contention advanced on behalf of the assessee that the said Explanation to Section 90 is unimplementable because of inappropriate language, does not appeal to us. The Explanation in our view provides for two eventualities. One is the charge of tax in respect of a foreign company vis-a-vis an Indian company, (i.e., a domestic company). The second category as per Explanation is the foreign company vis-a-vis the domestic company other than Indian company. It is noteworthy that the domestic company is defined under the Finance Act . For the sake of reference we may quote the definition of the 'domestic company' as per the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1996. (Emphasis, italicised in print, supplied)
 

Thus, even under the Finance Act the domestic company is recognized as Indian company and any other company having made arrangement for declaration of dividends payable on such income. We, therefore, do not find the language of the Explanation to Section 90 as inappropriate. Moreover, insofar as there is no doubt about the category of the foreign company vis-a-vis the Indian company having been specified in the Explanation, one need not ascertain as to whether in any case the second category of the companies would at all exist. We, therefore, do not find merit in the contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee in this regard. 57. The contention advanced on behalf of the assessee that the CIT(A) was not justified in ignoring the decision of the Tribunal for asst. yr. 1996-97 (supra) is also not well-founded. The CIT(A) has decided this issue in asst. yr. 1993-94, and this order has been followed in other years. The relevant portion of the order is reproduced hereunder : It is evident that the Explanation effectively seeks to override non-discrimination article of the DTAA with retrospective effect. The Explanation inserted is clarificatory in nature and retrospective in operation and in view thereof, the decision of Tribunal (supra) relied upon by the appellant on this issue is no longer valid. Accordingly, relying on the order of the CIT(A) for the asst. yr. 1996-97 and on consideration of the Explanation to Section 90(2) of the IT Act as discussed above, I direct the AO to recalculate the tax in accordance with the provisions of Finance Act relating to the asst. yr. 1993-94 at the rate chargeable to foreign companies," 58. That leaves us to consider the effect of the letters issued by the CBDT in regard to the taxation of the appellants. The CBDT had issued the two letters, one dt. 21st Nov., 1994 and another dt. 24th March, 2000. These are reproduced hereunder : Letter dt. 24th March, 2000 : 59. It is evident from the letter dt. 24th Nov, 1994, that the CBDT was of the view that the tax rate applicable in the case of the appellants would be the same as applicable to Indian companies. However, this opinion was changed before the law was amended vide letter dt. 24th March, 2000 referred to above. We have referred to the contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee in regard to these two letters issued by the CBDT. It is evident from the contents of the letters that the opinion of the Board is expressed in the aforementioned letters. If the law were not amended, perhaps we would have no difficulty in holding that the AO could not have overlooked the opinion of the Board in regard to the taxation of the appellants. So, however, the law has been amended retrospectively. Therefore, the only issue that requires to be considered is as to whether the circular of the CBDT prevails over the statutory law passed by the, supreme legislature. The CBDT is the creation of statute. The instructions issued under Section 119 of the IT Act, 1961, is under the delegated power by the Parliament. Therefore, it is futile to suggest that the CBDT circulars would prevail over the conscious amendment of the law by the legislature which overrides the law prevalent before the amendment including the CBDT circulars. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of State Bank of Travancore v. CIT held that the circulars issued by the Board would be binding on all officers and persons employed in the execution of the Act, but no instructions or circular can go against the provisions of the Act. In the case of State of Madhya Pradesh and Anr. v. G.S. Dall & Flour Mills , their lordships of the Supreme Court held that executive instructions can supplement a statute or cover areas to which the statute does not extend. But they cannot run contrary to the statutory provisions or whittle down their effect. In the case of Kerala Financial Corporation v. CIT (supra), their Lordships of the Supreme Court held that the circular of the Board issued under Section 119 cannot override or be detracted from the Act, inasmuch as what Section 119 has empowered is to issue orders, instructions or directions for the proper administration of the Act or for such other purposes specified in Sub-section (2) of that section. Such an order, instruction or direction cannot override the provision of the Act; that would be destructive of all the known principles of law as the same would really amount to giving power to a delegated authority to even amend the provision of law enacted by Parliament. This principle has been further reiterated in the case of Shanmuga Traders v. State of Tamil Nadu . In the case of Union of India v. M. Bhaskar , , their Lordships held that there is no dispute in law that statutory provision cannot be changed by administrative instructions. 60. Thus, from the decisions of the Supreme Court referred to above , it becomes abundantly clear that when the law is amended, any circular issued earlier automatically gets superseded. Since in this case the law was amended retrospectively, the letters issued by the Board, even assuming that they have the effect of circulars issued under Section 119 of the IT Act, 1961, are ineffective and they have to give way to the law passed by the supreme legislature. It may be pertinent to mention that their Lordships of the Delhi High Court in the case of National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. v. Union of India and Ors. held that the opinion of the Board expressed in its administrative capacity can under no circumstances be binding on the appellate authorities or the High Courts on a reference. 61. In the case of CIT v. Swedish East Asia Co. Ltd. , their Lordships of the Calcutta High Court held that when the section is clear, one cannot take aid of the circulars to interpret the law. This view is in consonance with the view expressed by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of State Bank of Travancore (supra). 62. We may further refer to the observations of Sri K. Srinivasan, author of the book on DTAA contained in para 7.2 of the book as under : 63. In the light of the above position of law, we are of the view that the Explanation to Section 90 is attracted in this case and the letters issued by the CBDT have been superseded by the said Explanation w.e.f. 1st April, 1962. We, accordingly, uphold the decision of the CIT(A) in regard to the applicability of the rate of tax as applicable in the case of foreign companies in the case of the appellant. Before parting with this issue we would like to point out that Article 25 of the DTAA is not attracted in this. The said article is reproduced hereunder : We admit our failure to appreciate as to how a letter written to the CBDT seeking opinion about the rate of tax chargeable in the case of the appellant fits in within the framework of reference under Article 25 of the DTAA. We find no merit in the contention in this regard advanced on behalf of the appellants. 64. For asst. yrs. 1997-98 and 1998-99, the common grounds of appeal relating to rate of tax are as under : 65. Our decision in regard to the issue of rate of tax for asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94 and 1994-95 shall apply to asst. yrs. 1997-98 and 1998-99 mutatis mutandis. Asst. yr. 1994-95 : 66. The only other ground that remains to be considered for asst. yr. 1994-95 is ground No. 3 which reads as under : 67. The relevant facts relating to this issue are that the assessee had received a sum of Rs. 10 crores from Punjab Housing Board (in short 'PHB') for investments in bonds generating agreed rate of return at 17 per cent The assessee had issued a cheque for Rs. 9.76 crores dt. 9th March, 1992 in favour of Andhra Bank, Fort Branch, Mumbai, purportedly for investment in the purchase of NPC Bonds. The said cheque was encashed by the bank on the same day. Sri N.K. Agarwal, the broker, through whom the investment was made, failed to deliver the 17 per cent NPC Bonds in spite of repeated reminders. On 18th March, 1992, Sri N.K. Agarwal delivered original letter of allotment covering 1 lakh 9 per cent tax-free secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of Rs. 1,000 each fully paid-up (6th 'A' series) Railway Bond 1991-92 issued by the Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. (IRFC). It is the claim of the assessee that the delivery of IRFC Bonds was accepted from Sri N.K. Agarwal on the understanding that the same would be held as alternate security pending delivery of 17 per cent NPC Bonds. The assessee sought information from Andhra Bank about the non-delivery of NPC Bonds vide letter dt. 18th June, 1992. The Andhra Bank vide letter, dt. 22nd June, 1992 informed the assessee that the amount received from Sri N.K. Agarwal was credited in the account of Sri Hitendra Dalal, the broker, as per the instructions of Sri N.K. Agarwal. The assessee had lodged the IRFC Bonds with Indian Railway Financial Corporation Ltd. to register the same in the name of the assessee. However, IRFC refused to register the bonds in favour of the appellant on the ground that the said bonds have already been registered in the name of Standard Chartered Bank. The assessee filed an appeal to the Company Law Board against the refusal of the IRFC for registering the IRFC Bonds. The appeal of the assessee was dismissed by the Company Law Board vide order dt. 25th Aug., 1994. The assessee appealed to the Delhi High Court. However, the appeal was transferred to the Special Court and the said Court also dismissed the appeal of the assessee on 31st March, 1998. 68. In the previous year relevant to the asst. yr. 1994-95, the assessee settled the claim of the PHB by returning the principal along with 17 per cent interest. It may be pertinent to mention that the assessee had returned a sum of Rs. 24,41,096 to PHB out of Rs. 10 crores at the time of issuing the cheque in favour of the Andhra Bank for Rs. 9,75,58,904. Subsequently, in March, 1992, a sum of Rs. 18 lakhs received from Sri N.K. Agarwal was also refunded to PHB. The balance of Rs. 9,57,58,904 and the interest @ 17 per cent for six months was refunded to the PHB on 7th July, 1993. Whereas the interest paid to the PHB was claimed as a deduction separately as interest under the head "Business income", the sum of Rs. 9,57,58,904 paid to the PHB was claimed as "loss in business". The AO denied the claim of the assessee. The CIT(A) has also confirmed the disallowance. 69. The learned counsel for the assessee contended that the assessee had suffered business loss and as such was entitled to deduction in respect of the same. It was pointed out that the assessee had also written letter to the RBI sometime in April, 1993, but they had refused to interfere vide its letter dt. 11th May, 1993. The assessee was also refused the permission to open a branch till the dispute with Andhra Bank was settled. In March, 1995, the assessee instituted a suit against the Andhra Bank and Sri N.K. Agarwal for the recovery of the principal amount along with interest. The suit has been transferred to the Special Court. According to the learned counsel, since the settlement with the PHB was made on 7th July, 1993, i.e., in the previous year relevant to asst. yr. 1994-95, the loss suffered by the assessee falls within the previous year and, accordingly, allowable as a business loss. It was stated by the learned counsel that the interest paid to PHB has been allowed as a deduction. The learned counsel pointed out that in order to avoid adverse publicity, the assessee in the business interests considered it prudent to settle the claim with the PHB. Our attention was invited to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Nainital Bank Ltd. where the jewellery pledged with the bank had been stolen. Though the bank was not legally bound to compensate the borrowers for the loss of jewellery, it was decided to do so in the interests of business. Such expenditure incurred by the assessee was held to be allowable as business loss. Reference was also made to the CBDT Circular No. 35D, dt. 24th Nov., 1965 in support of the contention that the loss incidental to business is to be allowed in the year in which it was discovered. Reference was also made to the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Dinesh Mills Ltd. v. CIT in support of the contention that the loss suffered by the assessee in the course of business was allowable. It was, accordingly, pleaded that the deduction for a sum of Rs. 9,57,58,904 may be allowed. 70. The learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand, contended that the assessee was not entitled to deduction insofar as the claim of the assessee was sub judice. There might be a possibility of loss to the assessee. But deduction is not allowable on mere possibility. It was further contended that the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for the assessee are distinguishable on facts. The facts and circumstances of this case clearly reveal that the assessee had not suffered the loss in the year under appeal and, therefore, no deduction was permissible. 71. We have given our careful consideration to the rival submissions. The assessee is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, giving loans, discounting/collection of bills, issue of letter of credit, guarantee, executing forward transaction in foreign currencies for importers/exporters, money market lending/borrowings, investment in securities, etc. The assessee received a sum of Rs. 10 crores from PHB in the course of business for purposes of investment with assured return of interest at 17 per cent. Sum of Rs. 42,41,096 (Rs. 24,41,096 + Rs. 18,00,000) had been returned to PHB out of 10 crores investment. The assessee had made investment in the course of its business with Andhra Bank through Sri N.K. Agarwal, a broker. It is the claim of the Andhra Bank that the amount received from Sri N.K. Agarwal on behalf of the appellant was credited in the account of Sri Hitendra Dalai as per instructions of Sri N.K. Agarwal. However, it is the claim of the assessee that no such instructions were issued and that the cheque paid in the name of Andhra Bank was issued for the purchase of NPC Bonds on behalf of PHB. This fact is disputed by the Andhra Bank. Even on the basis of the disputed facts it is evident from the material available on record that the assessee could not retrieve the investment of Rs. 9,57,58,904. The Revenue is not disputing this fact. The dispute, however, is only as to whether the non-receipt of NPC Bonds for the amount of Rs. 9,57,58,904 amounts to loss incurred by the appellant and if so, which is the relevant year for allowance of deduction. There are two aspects of the issue involved. One aspect is whether the assessee has suffered the loss. Second aspect is, in any case, whether the loss has been incurred in the year under appeal by reason of refund of principal and interest to the investor, PHB. We first propose to deal with the second aspect. As is evident from the facts, the assessee had received the amount from PHB on 28th Feb., 1992. The assessee had received IRFC Bonds from Sri N.K. Agarwal in March, 1992, as indicated in the decision of the Company Law Board, Northern Region, New Delhi, placed on record. These bonds had been lodged with IRFC. It was in June, 1992, that the assessee was informed that the original bonds had already been transferred in favour of the Standard Chartered Bank. So, if at all the assessee can be said to have lost the investment made through Sri N.K. Agarwal, its discovery could be said to be on receiving the information from IRFC in June, 1992. The said date falls in asst. yr. 1993-94. We are dealing with asst. yr. 1994-95. In asst. yr. 1994-95, the assessee has settled the claim with PHB by repaying the investment along with 17 per cent interest on such investment. The claim of the assessee is that the investment had been made on behalf of the PHB and that it had no legal obligation to refund the investment to the PHB. However, the refund was made as a matter of business prudence and, accordingly, the expenditure so incurred was allowable as a deduction for computing the business profits, it was contended. 72. In our considered view, the assessee had received the amount from PHB for the purpose of investment in specific bonds, not necessarily NPC Bonds. The assessee had made investments in the course of its business. Though the investment made by PHB with appellants and the investment made by the appellant with Andhra Bank are related, yet they are not part of the same transaction. The assessee has received money for the purpose of investment which is the business of the assessee. The investor had been assured the return of 17 per cent per annum. In turn, the assessee made investment in the course of its business. The possibility of loss of investment is part of the business of the assessee. The assessee had accepted IRFC Bonds from Shri N.K. Agarwal. However, PHB was not a party to such transaction or acceptance of the bonds. In the petition filed with the Company Law Board regarding transfer of IRFC Bonds, PHB is not a party. It thus becomes abundantly clear that the investment made by the assessee with the Andhra Bank was not as agent of PHB but as an independent business investment. Andhra Bank has claimed that the cheque was issued with clear instructions to be credited to the account of Sri Hitendra Dalai. In view of the disputed facts one cannot come to the conclusion that the assessee has lost the money. In any case, even if it is assumed that the assessee has suffered any loss, it is not on account of refund of money to the PHB but on account of investment made by the assessee-bank. As already pointed out, the fact that Sri N.K. Agarwal had not made investment for the purchase of NPC Bonds as per the purported instruction by the assessee was known to the assessee in the preceding year, i.e., in the asst. yr. 1993-94. The assessee had pursued the matter with Sri N.K. Agarwal and Andhra Bank and finally a suit was instituted against Andhra Bank and Sri N.K. Agarwal sometime in 1995. Therefore, it cannot be said with certain amount of certainty that the assessee has suffered the loss as yet. In any case, the claim does not fall in the year under appeal. Even if the loss is to be taken at the time of its discovery, that is when Shri N.K. Agarwal did not deliver the NPC Bonds or when IRFC Bonds were refused to be registered in the name of the assessee, even then the loss falls in asst. yr. 1993-94. However, assessee is to claim the loss only after losing the reasonable hope of recovery, the loss can be considered only in the event of the decision in the suit instituted against Sri N.K. Agarwal and Andhra Bank. This may be explained with an example. In the case of a trader, the assessee supplying goods to party 'A' may find it difficult to make recovery on account of the sale price of the goods. The assessee without making any efforts for recovering the amount cannot be said to have suffered the loss unless all reasonable means are exhausted for the recovery of the sale price. In this case, Sri N.K. Agarwal is stated to be the agent for Andhra Bank and the receipt of money has been pursued through Sri N.K. Agarwal, as admitted by Andhra Bank. The dispute is about the nature of the instructions received from the assessee regarding the investments. The suit has been instituted and there is still reasonable hope of recovery of the amount. The loss in the year under appeal cannot be said to have been incurred by the assessee notwithstanding the fact that there is a possibility of loss. Mere possibility of the loss may not be equivalent to the actual lose of money. Taking the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case into consideration, we are of the view that the refund of money to the investor, viz., PHB, of Rs. 9,58,57,904 is refund of the investment in the course of business and it does not amount to a loss suffered by the assessee in the course of business. This view gets further strength from the fact that the assessee paid interest of 17 per cent to the PHB along with the refund of the principal. It is unimaginable that the assessee-bank would have agreed not only to refund the principal amount to PHB but had also agreed to pay interest @ 17 per cent to the said Board as a matter of business prudence when according to the assessee they were not obliged to even return the investment to PHB. Facts and circumstances of this case clearly indicate that the refund to PHB was of their investment with the appellants and payment of interest on such investment was rightly allowed as expenditure incurred for purposes of business. It is like purchases being made from 'A' and the goods having been sold to 'B'. If B' does not pay the price of the goods, it may amount to loss suffered by the assessee. But the payment to 'A' for the goods supplied will not amount to loss to the assessee though the loss to the assessee on account of B's refusal to pay relates to the goods supplied by 'A'. Similarly, in this case, PHB made investment with the appellants. If at all the assessee has suffered a loss in the course of its business of making the investment, refund of money belonging to PHB plus interest cannot be said to be loss to the assessee. The event of refund to PHB is not the occasion of loss. We, accordingly, hold that the loss, if any, suffered by the appellants on account of investments does not relate to the year under appeal. We, accordingly, hold that in view of the disputed facts, it cannot be said that the assessee has suffered the loss. The refund of principal and interest to the investor-PHB in any case is not the event of loss. We also hold that, in any case, the loss does not pertain to the year under appeal. We, however, make it clear that our decision for the year under appeal relating to the disallowance of loss of Rs. 9,57,58,904 is without prejudice to the right of the assessee to claim the loss, if any, in which it can be said to have been incurred. 73. Before parting, we may point out that the assessee had filed application dt. 10th March, 2003 on 11th March, 2003 with the Registry raising the following additional ground of appeal for asst. yr. 1993-94 : The hearing of appeal for asst. yr. 1993-94 was concluded on 6th March, 2003, along with appeals for asst. yrs. 1992-93 and 1995-96. The filing of additional ground of appeal after concluding the hearing and subsequent to the date of hearing is inconsequential and, accordingly, does not require any consideration. It may also be pertinent to mention that the assessee has filed a suit against Andhra Bank and Sri N.K. Agarwal and facts stated by the assessee are disputed. Therefore, whether the assessee has incurred the loss or not is dependent on the outcome of the suit. In such circumstances the claim of the assessee that the loss should be considered in asst. yr. 1993-94 is premature in any case. 74. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1995-96 are partly allowed. Pramod Kumar, A.M. 75. I have carefully gone through the order proposed by the learned Vice President but as I am unable to persuade myself to agree with certain conclusions arrived at therein I proceed to place on record my dissenting views. 76. The facts of this case and the developments giving rise to this litigation have been rather comprehensively set out in the learned Vice President's draft, and, for the sake of brevity I need not repeat the same. I would, therefore, come directly to the areas of disagreement which are primarily on the legal principles. A: On the scope of proviso to Section 40(a)(i) : 77. In paras 24 and 27 of his draft, the learned Vice President has, inter alia, observed as follows : 78. In my considered view, however, in cases where deduction in respect of sums paid to non-residents is claimed in the year in which the relevant tax deduction at source obligations are discharged, and such an year is subsequent to the year to which relevant expenses pertain, it is not sine qua non that the assessee should have first claimed the deduction in the year to which it pertains and the deduction should have been rejected by the AO under Section 40(a)(i) . I am, therefore, unable to subscribe to the aforesaid proposition laid down in learned Vice President's proposed draft. 79. I may reproduce the contents of Section 40(a)(i) for ready reference : 80. A plain reading of the above legal provision makes it clear that so far as payments outside India are concerned, these payments are not allowed as a deduction unless the tax deduction at source obligations, if any, in respect of the same, are duly discharged by the assessee. It further provides that in cases in which such tax deduction at source obligations are discharged in a year subsequent to the year to which the payments pertain to, the related payments are allowable as deductions in the year in which the tax deduction at source obligations are so discharged. There is no suggestion, however, to the effect that the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) will only come to the play when the assessee has claimed the deduction in the year to which the expense pertains and such a claim was rejected under Section 40(a)(i) . In the absence of any such limitation having been specifically placed on the scope of proviso to Section 40(a) , in my considered view, it is not open to us to infer or assume such restrictions which are not supported by the words of the statute. Even if these restrictions be said to be desirable for proper working of the section, it is not open to us to supply the casus omissus. In the case of Tata Tea Limited v. Jt. CIT (2003) 78 TTJ (Cal) 646 : (2003) 87 ITD 351 (Cal), to which both of us were parties, it was observed that "casus omissus, which broadly refers to the principle that a matter which has not been provided in the statute but should have been there, cannot be supplied by us, as, to do so will be clearly beyond the call and scope of our duty which is only to interpret the law as it exists." As Rowlatt, J. has said, in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. IRC (1921) 1 KB 64, "In a taxing statute, one has to look merely at what is clearly said; there is no room for any intendment...". The temptation of resorting to a rather creative process of an aggressive interpretation of statutes, which allows us to read between the lines, therefore, must be resisted. Even as I say so, I am also of the view that, in any event, there is nothing between the lines to justify such an interpretation either. I am of the considered view that, in any event, it can be nothing short of a meaningless ritual for an assessee to claim a deduction knowing well that the same is specifically inadmissible in view of the provisions of Section 40(a)(i) , or, for that purpose, for the AO or the appellate authorities to adjudicate on the academic questions of allowability of such a deduction on merits when the same is clearly not admissible in view of specific provisions of Section 40(a)(i) . By the virtue of Section 40(a)(i) , in my considered view, deductions in respect of payments made outside India, involving tax deduction at source obligations by the payee, are admissible in the year in which such tax deduction at source obligations have been discharged, and this principle operates de hors the method of accounting employed by the assessee. For all these reasons, in my considered view, it is not a condition precedent for admissibility of deduction under proviso to Section 40(a)(i) that the assessee should have first claimed the deduction in the year to which it pertains and that deduction should have been rejected by the AO only on the ground that the tax deduction at source obligations in respect of the same have not been discharged by the assessee. 81. It is interesting to note that the provisions of Section 40(a)(i) are disabling provisions as well as enabling provisions. While Section 40(a) lays down the restrictions on deductibility of certain expenses, proviso to Section 40(a)(i) lays down the conditions in which such an expense is to be allowed. 82. Normally, proviso to a section sets out an exception to the scope of section. It carves out an area, out of the area covered by the scope of the section, and takes it away from applicability thereof. As Lush J said, "When one finds a proviso to a section, the natural presumption is that, but for the proviso, the enacting part of section would have included the subject-matter of the proviso." As Lord Macnaghaten observed, 'the proviso may be a qualification of the preceding enactment which is expressed in terms too general to be accurate'. No doubt that, more often than not, it is somewhat alien to the proper function of a proviso to read it as providing something by way of an addendum or dealing with a subject which is not directly relevant to the section of which it is a proviso. In other words, normally a proviso operates as an exception, rather than as a substantive provision. However, as was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Jagannath Mahadeo Prasad "where the language is quite clear and no other view is possible, it is futile to go into the question whether the proviso to Section 24(1) operates as a substantive provision or only by way of an exception to Section 24(1) ". The words of proviso to Section 40(a)(i) also being clear and being free from any ambiguity, and in view of the principle so laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Jagannath Mahadeo Prasad (supra), this proviso is to be viewed as a substantive provision and as, to repeat my words in the preceding para, an enabling provision. 83. In the light of the above discussions and in view of the fact that the learned Vice President has confirmed the disallowance of remuneration and tax in respect of 1990-91 and 1991-92 only on the ground that the assessee had not made claim for deduction thereof in the respective years, I dissociate myself from this conclusion arrived at by the learned Vice President. In my considered view, therefore, the deduction of remuneration and tax in respect of 1990-91 and 1991-92 is to be allowed in the asst. yr. 1995-96, i.e., the year in which the assessee has duly discharged the tax deduction at source obligation in respect of the same. B : Deductibility of interest under Section 201(1A) 84. In para 28 of the proposed draft, learned Vice President has observed as follows : In my considered view, however, since the aforesaid interest was in the nature of employee cost and since it was paid in the previous year relevant to the asst. yr. 1995-96, the same should be allowed as a deduction in the asst. yr. 1995-96. It is also to be noted that the liability to pay even the remuneration was not debited in the books of account in India, as evident from the contents of para 9 of learned Vice President's draft, and yet the same was held to be allowable as a deduction in computing income attributable to Indian PE. By the same logic, merely because relevant interest expenses were not claimed as a deduction by showing the same in the books of account for the relevant years, cannot come in the way of allowing interest expenses as a deduction for the present year. On the facts of the present case, interest levy under Section 201(1A) is an integral part of the remuneration paid to expatriates, since such remuneration is paid on 'net of tax basis' and interest under Section 201(1A) will have the same character as the tax paid on such salaries which is undoubtedly the character of salaries or cost of employment. As a corollary to the remuneration itself having been held to be an allowable deduction, the tax paid in connection with such remuneration as also interest paid in connection with such taxes is also required to be treated as an 'allowable deduction'. 85. In para 34 of the proposed order, learned Vice President has further observed that : 86. In the proposed order, the learned Vice President has declined the claim by observing that income-tax does not constitute an admissible deduction and since interest in question is paid in connection with income-tax, the interest paid on account of delay in deposit of tax deducted at source also cannot be allowed as a deduction. Interestingly, however, in the proposed order, the learned Vice President himself has allowed the deduction on account of tax deductible at source from salaries to expatriates. In doing so, in paras 24 to 26 of the learned Vice President's draft, it has been observed that : Once we hold that the taxes deducted at source, which were borne by the assessee as an employee cost and on account of expatriate salaries being on 'net on tax basis', constituted admissible deduction, it cannot be open to us to hold that interest payable in connection with such taxes deductible at source will not be deductible on the ground that tax itself is not an allowable deduction. To me, there appears to be an inherent contradiction in this stand; either income-tax deductible at source is an allowable deduction or it is not, but once on the facts of a case, it is held that it is an allowable deduction, and rightly so, the interest on delayed deposit of such tax cannot be declined deduction on the ground that income-tax deductible at source is not an allowable deduction. In any case, income-tax paid by the assessee, in discharge of tax liability of the employees and on account of assessee paying salaries to related employees on 'net of tax basis', is nothing but an expense in the nature of, what is usually termed as, 'employee cost'. Such an expense is incurred to earn the income, and is, therefore, an admissible deduction. 87. In Smt. Padmavati Jaikrishna 's case (supra) relied upon by the learned Vice President, Hon'ble Supreme Court had, inter alia, observed that "we are inclined to agree with the High Court that so far as the meeting of the liability of income-tax and wealth-tax is concerned it was indeed a personal one and payment thereof cannot at all be said to be expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the earning the income" and that "the test to apply is that the expenditure should be wholly and exclusively for the purpose of earning the income". In coming to the conclusion that the interest paid on overdraft to pay income-tax dues does not constitute an admissible deduction under Section 57(iii) , Their Lordships took note of the legal position that "the expenditure to be deductible ... must be laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of making or earning such income..." as also the finding that "the expenditure in this case was to meet the personal liability of payment of income-tax and wealth-tax" which was obviously not to earn income. To my understanding, the principle that could be said to emerge from this judgment is that only such expenses can be allowed as a deduction which are incurred to earn that income, but then income-tax is certainly not 'to earn an income', and, therefore, rightly inadmissible as a deduction. In the case of East India Pharmaceutical Works (supra) relied upon by the learned Vice President, Hon'ble Supreme Court has simply followed this principle and observed that "as has been already noticed in Smt. Padmawati 's case (supra), this Court had affirmatively held that, meeting the liability for income-tax was a personal liability and such expenditure can never be held to be wholly and exclusively for the purpose of earning income." . On the facts of the present case, however, none of these judgments have any application. It is not in dispute that the assessee has paid the salaries to expatriates on net of tax basis, and, therefore, tax paid on behalf of such employees is an integral part of the employee cost which cannot but be said to be in the nature of expenses, to use the terminology employed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, "wholly and exclusively for the purpose of earning income". On the present set of facts, therefore, interest paid on account of delay in depositing the taxes deductible at source is an admissible deduction, and learned Vice President's reliance on Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgments in the cases of Smt. Padmavati Jaikrishna (supra) and East India Pharmaceutical Works (supra) does not appear to be wholly justified. 88. In his proposed order, learned Vice President has stated that "Since the income of the expatriate employees is liable to tax, the assessee would be obliged to file the returns of income and discharge the obligations which, but for the agreement of employment with the assessee, expatriate employees had to discharge." In my view, we have no basis for arriving at this conclusion, nor is it anyway relevant in deciding the deductibility of interest paid on delayed deposit of taxes deductible at source. 89. It cannot also be in dispute that the interest under Section 201(1A) is compensatory, and not penal in nature. Articulating the views of Kolkata 'C' Bench in the case of ITO v. Titagarh Steels Ltd. (2001) 73 TTJ (Cal) 297 : (2001) 79 ITD 532 (Cal), and dealing with a case in which the assessee had, inter alia, paid interest under Section 201(1A) for delayed deposit of taxes deducted at source, I had observed as follows : 90. In the case of Mahalakshmi Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT , Hon'ble Supreme Court has, while dealing with the levy of interest on cess, observed that "In truth, the interest provided for under Section 3(3) is in the nature of compensation paid to the Government for delay in the payment of cess. It is not by way of penalty. The provision for penalty as a civil liability has been made under Section 3(5) and for penalty as a criminal offence under Section 4 ." Their Lordships were thus of the opinion that a compensatory levy of interest is a deductible expenditure. In view of Tribunal's decision in the case of Titagarh Steels Limited (supra), interest levy under Section 201(1) is a compensatory levy, and, therefore, the same constitutes an admissible deduction. The circumstances leading to this levy may be such as to invite a penal action but then what is material in the present context is the precise nature of deduction being claimed, and no further. It may be recalled that in Mahalakshmi Sugar Mills Co Ltd's. case (supra), Their Lordships had further observed as follows : In the case of Prakash Cotton Mills (P) Ltd. v. CIT , Their Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court have observed that "The decision of this Court in Mahalakshmi Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. and the decision of the Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in CIT v. Hyderabad Allwyn Metal Works Ltd. with the view of which we are in complete agreement, are in our opinion, decisions which settle the law on the question as to when an amount paid by an assessee as interest or damages or penalty could be regarded as compensatory (reparatory) in character as would entitle such assessee to claim it as an allowable expenditure under Section 37(1) of the IT Act". 91. In view of the reasons stated above, I am unable to concur with the learned Vice President that the interest paid by the assessee under Section 201(1A) of the Act is not eligible for deduction as expenses incurred for the purposes of business. In my view and on the facts of this case, the interest paid under Section 201(1A) , being an integral part of the cost of employees--as payment on account of compensatory levy for delayed deposit of taxes which the assessee was under an obligation to pay on behalf of the employees--, is in the nature of expenses incurred for the purposes of the business and for earning the income, and, is, therefore, admissible as a deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. C : Deducibility of operational loss 92. As far as this claim of deduction of Rs. 9,57,58,904 is concerned, this claim was originally allowed by the AO but, in the course of first appellate proceedings and vide para 8 of the impugned order, CIT(A) made this disallowance by observing as under : Aggrieved by the enhancement so made by the first appellate authority, assessee is in appeal before us. 93. In order to appreciate the nature of this loss in correct perspective, it may also be useful to understand the nature of transaction as also modus operandi of the broker. 94. As evident from the document placed before us at p. 47 of the paper book, the assessee received a sum of Rs. 10 crores from Punjab Housing Board (PHB, in short), for investment by the assessee, for a period of 180 days subject to the condition that the money is to be invested in Government securities, UTI or tax-free bonds, that a return of 17 per cent minimum will be guaranteed, that all services were to be rendered in Chandigarh, and that in case of emergency, money may be made available to PHB with whatever returns that becomes due at that time. It was in the course of investment of money so received by the assessee that on 9th March, 1992, it issued a cheque of Rs. 9,75,58,904 to Andhra Bank for purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds @ 'Rs 97 per bond plus accrued interest' and handed over a payment advice and the cheque, cheque forming part of the payment advice, to a broker by the name of Shri. N.K Agarwal. At this stage, I must clarify as to the present practice of issuance of 'payment advice-cum-cheque'. With the changes in the Indian banking practices brought about mainly by the multinational banks, it is no longer a cheque book which is used by the large corporate account holders, involving issuance of large number of cheques, or the banks. These cheque books are now replaced by packets of perforated computer friendly forms, used as a continuous computer stationery, issued by the banker to its important clients and, of course, for its own purposes. These pre-numbered advices are in two parts and can be separated by tearing off at the perforated points. The top portion contains the kind of details of the person issuing the cheques as a letter-head would contain, and has columns for the name and address of the person to whom cheque is issued, details of payment, and details of purposes for which it is issued. The bottom portion is a form for the cheque itself. These forms are computer friendly and, while processing the payment, while details of payment are printed on the top portion, the details necessary for cheque are printed on the bottom portion. Upon signing, the top portion is used as a payment advice, while bottom portion, on being removed from the aforesaid advice, works as a cheque itself. A typical example of such a practice is reflected by the copy of payment advice-cum-cheque in question issued to Andhra Bank, a copy of which is placed before us at p. 49 of the paper book. Even a cursory look of the above payment advice-cum-cheque clearly demonstrates the fact that the payment advice and the cheque are composite instruments in this case, although, for banking purposes, one has to tear off the cheque and process it for payment. The cheque portion appears to be in favour of Andhra Bank, but then it's a fairly well-known fact that the modus operandi of many security scams was that cheques issued in the name of banks were used, as a part of normally acceptable practice, to credit the accounts of certain brokers as maintained in those banks. It was, inter alia, this vulnerable practice in the banking industry which proved to be a fertile ground for ingenious and unscrupulous scamsters. 95. It is not in dispute in the present case that it was this payment advice-cum-cheque which was handed over by the assessee to the broker, and this fact is also evident from acknowledgment on copy of the payment advice-cum-cheque placed before us at p. 49 of the paper book. What has apparently been done by someone in this case is that he removed the top portion of payment advice-cum-cheque, ignored its contents altogether, and used the bottom portion, i.e., the cheque, for affording credit to the account of one Hiten Dalal, one of the central characters in several cases of security scams in this country. This exercise, in our considered view, is nothing short of a fraud within meanings of Section 17 of the Indian Contracts Act, 1872, which describes fraud as, inter alia, active concealment of a fact by one having knowledge or belief of the fact. Now, it cannot be in dispute that the person who received the payment advice-cum-cheque was aware that the cheque in the name of Andhra Bank was specifically for the purpose of purchase of NPC Bonds in the name of PHB, but he actively conceals this fact by removing the top portion of 'payment advice-cum-cheque' and uses only the cheque portion for an unauthorized credit to the account of Hiten Dalai. As an agent of the PHB, which the assessee clearly was while making investment specifically on behalf of this principal, the assessee was bound to conduct the business of the principal as per directions given by the principal, or, in the absence of such instructions, according to the normal usage. Subsequent to this transaction, the assessee has been able to realize IRFC Bonds valued at Rs. 9,57,58,904 as also a sum representing the difference in value of NPC Bonds vis-a-vis the IRFC Bonds, on 18th March, 1992, but even the IRFC Bonds could not be transferred to the assessee-bank as the same were already sold to Standard Chartered Bank. The assessee carried the matter before the Company Law Board but without any success. As evident from p. 1 of CLB's order, dt. 25th Aug., 1994, marking attendance of Shri Manmohan and Shri C.M. Oberoi, Advocates representing PHB, PHB was also represented before the CLB. This CLB order, at p. 2, specifically observes as follows : In my view, receipt of Rs. 10 crores from PHB and issuance of cheque for purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds are integral parts of the same transaction. It is also important to bear in mind the fact that the amount that the assessee-bank was unable to invest in the NPC Bonds was duly refunded to the PHB. In case receipt of Rs. 10 crores from PHB and Investment in 17 per cent NPC Bonds are to be treated as unconnected transactions, the refund of Rs. 24,41,096 to PHB remains unexplained, which represents the difference of amount received for investment minus the amount invested in 17 per cent NPC Bonds. The assessee-bank had also refunded Rs. 18 lakhs to PHB and this amount was received from N.K. Agarwal, being difference between the market value of NFC Bonds and IRFC Bonds, at the time of handing over IRFC Bonds in substitution of NPC Bonds. All these factors indicate that receipt of Rs. 10 crores from PHB, and investment in NFC Bonds are interconnected and integral part of the transaction entered into by the assessee-bank. While making this purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds, assessee was not making an investment in the course of its business, but making an investment specifically on behalf of the constituent, i.e., PHB as an agent. It would also appear to us that the assessee acted in the manner in which a normal prudent person would have acted by issuing the cheque in the name of Andhra Bank with specific instructions to use the proceeds of this cheque for buying the securities in question. The loss suffered by the assessee in such a situation, i.e., acting as an agent of PHB and while conducting the business in a bona fide manner, prima facie is on account of the principal, i.e., PHB. In our considered view, therefore, no loss was incurred by the assessee as such on his account, but on account of its client, i.e., PHB, specifically on whose behalf and specifically in whose name, the assessee was trying to acquire securities. Yet the assessee agreed to bear this loss by making good the loss caused to PHB, not because the assessee had a legal duty to do so but, as I find, because of commercial expediency. One important factor contributing to this commercial expediency appears to be that the RBI declined to issue a licence for opening a new branch office at Chennai. The RBI in its letter dt. 16th June, 1993, a copy of which was placed before us at p. 58 of the paper book, stated that "issue of a licence to your bank for opening a branch in Madras has again been decided to be kept in abeyance till such time as the dispute on securities transactions between your bank and Andhra Bank is resolved". Within three weeks of this communication, the assessee-bank entering into settlement with PHB, also, in a way, indicates the factors influencing the assessee-bank's decision to bear the loss. Let us see this from the point of view of a large multinational bank that this assessee admittedly is. In case such an assessee has to choose between bearing a loss of Rs. 9.57 crores or losing the opportunity to operate business in a major Indian metropolitan city like Chennai, the odds are that the commercial expediency may persuade the assessee to opt for losing only Rs. 9.57 crores. In other words, commercial expediency of bearing this loss, which is surely best judged by the assessee himself, cannot be simply rejected as improbable. In this view of the matter, I am of the considered opinion that there is no material to reject assessee's claim that the payment made to PHB was justified on the grounds of commercial expediency. 96. There is one more aspect to the matter, and, that is pertaining to the importance of assessee's credibility in its customers and prospective customers. There are occasions when, to protect its reputation and credibility, a bank has to bear a loss which, strictly speaking, is not even its loss. One such situation was dealt by with Their Lordships of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Nainital Bank Ltd . Their Lordships were in seisin of a case in which certain amount of cash and 'a large quantity of jewellery pledged with the bank by its constituents' were stolen by dacoits on 11th June, 1951, from the premises of the bank. As far as loss of jewellery belonging to the customers was concerned, the bank has settled these claims with the customers. The loss was thus borne by the assessee-bank, even though the bank was not under any legal or contractual obligation to bear such loss. The amount so paid was, however, disallowed by the Revenue on the ground that the assessee-bank did not have any liability to settle the claim. When the matter finally reached the Hon'ble Supreme Court, Revenue contended that the loss incurred by the bank was under no legal liability to pay to the constituents the value of the jewellery pledged. Revenue also pointed out that the bank was, as a pledgee, a bailee of the jewellery and was in law required to take as much care of the pledged jewellery as a person of ordinary prudence would take under similar circumstances of his own jewellery of the same bulk, quantity and value, and the bank having provided an adequate number of watchmen, it was not liable for the loss of the property pledged. It was in this backdrop that Their Lordships observed that, "Granting that, on proof that it had taken as much care of the jewellery pledged with it as it would have taken if it belonged to it, the bank could enforce its rights and recover the full amount due from the constituents, the question still remains whether in admitting liability for the purpose of the business." and thus answered the question posed to themselves : (emphasis by underlining, italicised in print, supplied by me) 97. Applying the principle laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nainital Bank (supra), it would appear that the assessee-bank had evidently two courses open : to enforce its right strictly according to law, and thereby to lose the goodwill it had built up among the constituents, or to compensate the constituent for the loss suffered in the securities scam, and maintain its business connections and goodwill. In choosing the second alternative, as held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the assessee-bank laid out expenditure for the purpose of its business. Accordingly, the payment of Rs. 9,57,58,904 made by the assessee-bank to the PHB is, in my considered view, bona fide business expenditure eligible for deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. 98. As for the Revenue's contention that the loss is not yet final and there is still a possibility of assessee-bank's being able to recover the disputed amount from Andhra Bank, N.K. Agarwal or Hiten Dalai, I find no substance in this contention either. First of all, this argument proceeds on the fallacy that it is the loss incurred on behalf of PHB which is being claimed as deduction, whereas, in my view, it is the payment to PHB, which is a payment warranted on account of commercial expediency rather than contractual obligations, which is being claimed as a deduction. Secondly, assuming that such a possibility may have any relevance in this matter, even the 'possibility' of recovery has to be a reasonable possibility, i.e., what a reasonable person would expect in the given circumstances. The material on record, in my understanding, indicates that the assessee-bank has been taken for a ride by unscrupulous operators, misusing the loopholes in the system, and exploiting the fact that transactions involving such huge amounts were entered into, perhaps as a normal course in the banking industry, without taking highest degree of safety measures and incorporating checks and balances as such, and but for this laxity inherent in the normal banking practices, scams of the kind which have become somewhat common in the recent past could not have taken place. Learned CIT(A) has made this enhancement merely on the basis that the matter is still pending before the Special Courts set up for dealing with security scam cases. But then this fact, by itself, cannot imply that there are reasonable prospects of recouping the loss, because, it is also a well-known fact, perhaps as equally well known as the fact about existence of these special Courts itself, that the claims on these scamsters are several times the value of their known assets. This money does not also appear to be recoverable from Andhra Bank also as in response of RBI's letter dt. 16th June, 1993, a copy of which was placed before us at p. 58 of the paper book, stating "issue of a licence to your bank for opening a branch in Madras has again been decided to be kept in abeyance till such time as the dispute on securities transactions between your bank and Andhra Bank is resolved", the assessee-bank has clearly given more importance to the licence for Chennai branch rather than claim, whatever be its merits, on Andhra Bank. Keeping all these factors in mind, I am inclined to share the assessee's perception that there is no reasonable hope of recovery of this amount. There is no material before us to doubt or dispute the assessee's perception that the money so refunded to PHB constitutes a loss, and is, accordingly, booked as an expenditure, that the same is beyond reasonable hope of recovery, and that the chances of recouping the loss are too remote to affect the accounting treatment of the loss. The objection raised by the Revenue is thus, in my considered view, not maintainable. 99. For the reasons set out above, I am of the considered view that the CIT(A) indeed erred in making enhancement of Rs. 9,57,58,904 on account of operational loss. The appellant, therefore, deserves to succeed on this issue as well. 100. Save as otherwise specified hereinabove, I am in considered agreement with the conclusions arrived at by the learned Vice President and, I respectfully, endorse the same. REFERENCE UNDER SECTION 255(4) OF THE IT ACT, 1961
 

Pramod Kumar, A.M.
 

101 A consolidated order in the case of above four appeals for the asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1995-96 was proposed by the Vice President. However, the AM has expressed his reservations on some of the issues relating to the asst. yr. 1995-96. The AM has agreed with the proposed order in respect of which no specific reservations have been expressed in the dissenting order. Therefore, whereas the appeals for the asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 are disposed of by way of the consolidated order, a reference is made to the Hon'ble President for nomination of Third Member in order to resolve the points of difference amongst the members of the Bench for the asst. yr. 1995-96. The points of difference are as under: 102. It is, therefore, requested that the Hon'ble President may kindly nominate a Third Member for a decision in regard to the points of difference referred to above . M.A. Bakshi, Vice President 103. A consolidated order in the case of all the above four appeals for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1995-96 was proposed by the Vice President. However, the AM has expressed his reservations in respect of some of the issues all relating to asst. yr. 1995-96. The AM has agreed with the proposed order in respect of which no specific reservation has been expressed in the dissenting order. Therefore, whereas the appeals of the assessee for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 are disposed of by the consolidated order, a reference is made to the Hon'ble President for nomination of the Third Member in order to resolve the points of difference amongst the members of the Bench for asst. yr. 1995-96. The points of difference are identified as under: 104. Tax component in respect of expatriate employees for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 : 105. Interest paid by the assessee as a defaulter of non-payment of tax deductible at source : 106. Business loss : 107. It is, therefore, requested that Hon'ble President may nominate a Third Member for a decision in regard to the points of difference referred to above . R.P. Garg, Vice President
 

A reference under Section 255(4) of the IT Act, 1961, was made by the President, Tribunal, for my opinion as Third Member on the following points of difference arising out of the appeal for the asst. yr. 1995-96 : 108. The questions referred were not depicting the real controversy and there was also confusion about the assessment year of reference. As regards question (a) above, the reference was only for allowability of the tax component on the salary of expatriate employees deducted at source, whereas the difference between the two Members was covering both the tax component as well as salary payment to the expatriate employees, and question (c) was arising out of the appeal proceedings for the asst. yr. 1994-95 whereas in the reference it is stated to be arising out of asst. yr. 1995-96. Therefore, a revised reference was directed by the President with the following questions : 109. The assessee is a bank, incorporated in Netherlands with limited liabilities having its original office at Singapore. It has branches in India at Mumbai, Kolkata and New Delhi and is registered as a Scheduled Bank in terms of Schedule II of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Act, 1934 . Its main activity comprised of accepting deposits, giving loans, discounting of the collection of bills, issue of letter of credit/guarantees, executing forward transactions in foreign currencies for importers/exporters, money market lendings/borrowings, investment in securities, etc., in terms of existing rules and regulations governing such transactions. 110. There exists an agreement for Avoidance of Double Taxation between India and Netherlands (DTA in short), Article 7 of which provides for taxation in India on a foreign enterprise in respect of profit attributable to its permanent establishments (PE in short) and since ABN AMRO was having a PE in India, it is being subjected to tax in India. 111. Four years' appeals for asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 and 1995-96 came up before the Tribunal simultaneously and there struck a difference of opinion between the two Members while disposing of the appeals for asst. yr. 1994-95 in ITA No. 106/Kol/2001 and asst. yr. 199.5-96 in ITA No. 496/Cal/1999 and the point of difference is referred to above in para 2. 112. The assessee has not deducted tax in. respect of the remuneration paid to its expatriate employees on the prescribed dates as required under Section 192 of the Act. The CBDT, in order to encourage the compliance in respect of TDS, issued Circular No. 685, dt. 20th June, 1994, providing exemption from penalty and prosecution to those employers who paid the tax deducted/deductible at source at a specified date. By another Circular No. 686, dt. 12th Aug., 1994, the Board has also clarified that the assessments of the employees in respect of whom payments of short deduction and interest thereon are made by the employer in pursurance of Circular No. 685, dt. 20th June, 1994, will not be responsible or otherwise disturbed merely on account of the excess salary payment now disclosed by the employer. The assessee took shelter under the said circular and paid a sum of Rs. 2,06,54,499 for previous years starting from asst. yr. 1990-91 to asst. yr. 1995-96. The P&L a/c of the assessee for asst. yr. 1995-96 was debited with the sum of Rs. 2,06,54,499. It was, however, added back and a deduction of only of Rs. 89,04,276 was claimed on account of remuneration including Rs. 52,35,222 paid in Netherland, TDS and interest pertaining to the asst. yr. 1995-96. 113. For asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92, it seems that the remuneration has not been claimed as a deduction and seemingly no reasons are on record as to why it was not claimed in those years. In the asst. yr. 1992-93, the assessee made claim before the AO for remuneration and tax deducted at source in respect of expatriate employees having rendered services in India for which the payment has been made abroad amounting to Rs. 23,87,325. By another letter, the assessee claimed the tax deducted at source paid in pursuance to the Board's Circular amounting to Rs. 29,86,963. A similar claim was made for asst. yrs. 1993-94 and 1994-95. During the assessment proceedings for asst. year 1995-96, the assessee also claimed deduction of entire amount of Rs. 2,06,54,499 being the tax and interest for all the years starting from asst. yr. 1990-91 to 1995-96. The position of payment of TDS, interest and offshore remuneration paid in Netherlands and claimed as deduction is as under : Tax (As TDS 3,61,635 10,54,924 29,86,963 49,44,312 35,86,312 36,15,895 1,65,50,510
arrears)
Int. U/S 201 2.45,859 5,80.300 12.19,063 13,24,577 6,81.031 53,159 41,03,989
Sub Total 6,07,494 16,35,224 42,06,026 62,68,889 42,67,812 36,69,054 2,06,54,499
Net Offshore 3,27,276 9,10,803 23,87,325 61,90,206 47,16,025 52,35,222 1,97,66,857
remuneration paid
in Netherlands
Total 934,770 2.546,027 6,593,351 12.459.095 89.83,837 89,04,276 4,04,21,356 114. The AO, however, disallowed the claim of the assessee for offshore remuneration in asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 by observing that the decision of Supreme Court in the case of Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. CIT was not applicable; that the salary was paid to the expatriate employees rendering services in India by the head office of the bank and the same has not been debited to the accounts of the bank in India and that the tax borne by the assessee-bank on salary paid to the expatriate offshore the payment has been made only in the subsequent year. He, therefore, disallowed both the payment of salary by the head office as well as the tax deducted at source and interest thereon and paid in the asst. yr. 1995-96 by stating that TDS for earlier years was not covered by Section 43B as if was not a regular payment of tax or Government dues, that the amount has been paid under Amnesty Scheme and, therefore, it is not allowable and that the amount does not pertain to the year under consideration and further that the remuneration and TDS paid by the assessee for the earlier years have not been included in the income of the concerned employees for their income-tax purpose in India for which the assessee is liable and also that the interest on TDS is not a business expenditure and it does not pertain to the year of assessment. 115. The claim of Rs. 89,04,296 in asst. yr. 1995-96 being remuneration, TDS and interest pertaining to the (sic) was also disallowed by the AO by further observing that the assessee has not given the details as to how much of such remuneration has already been claimed as expenditure by any other office of the assessee because the assessee cannot be allowed the same expenditure twice, once in another country and again in India. The assessee has not given details of services rendered, place of service rendered and terms of agreement regarding such employees/offshore expatriates and that the assessee was allowed head office expenses @ 5 per cent of taxable income in India and, therefore, such expenditure including the remuneration under consideration has merged with head office expenses and, therefore, it is treated as allowed by way of head office expenses. He also stated that the aforesaid reasons for not allowing offshore expatriates remuneration applies to interest, TDS and remuneration paid for earlier years as well. 116. The CIT(A) confirmed the disallowances by agreeing with the AO for the disallowance of Rs. 89,04,296 in asst. yr. 1995-96, he also agreed with the AO for the disallowance of the entire deduction of tax of Rs. 2,06,54,499 being the tax and interest on offshore remuneration of the expatriate employees for all the assessment years including the current assessment year. He observed that the CBDT had launched a scheme whereby TDS by defaulters for not deducting tax in respect of salary and remuneration paid to expatriate employees abroad could be paid by the employer and the assessee had taken advantage of this scheme and paid tax and interest due thereupon for several assessment years with respect to payment made to its expatriate employees to save itself from the rigour of prosecution, although in other sense of the term, these taxes were due and collectible from the expatriate employees from whom the assessee-company in earlier years had failed to collect taxes in accordance with the Indian law and pay the same. He further observed that even now these taxes have been paid purely on behalf of the expatriate employees and if there is any liability for payment of the same to the bank it rests on those expatriate employees and, therefore, the assessee cannot say that this should be treated as revenue expenditure. He further held that the taxes paid by the assessee-company because of their own fault in not collecting taxes from its expatriate employees in time and depositing the same with the Government of India, cannot be allowed as a revenue expenditure. 117. The matter came up before the Tribunal. Insofar as the claim for remuneration in the appeals for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 is concerned, both the members agreed that the remuneration paid to the expatriate employees rendering whole-time service in India throughout the accounting year has to be accepted as allowable deduction in computing the profits of the PE subject however with a rider that such payment is not taken into account in working out the deduction under Section 44C and once the AO is satisfied that the assessee is entitled to deduction in respect of remuneration, the claim of the assessee shall have to be dealt with in accordance with Section 40 of the Act. The aforesaid directions were also stated to be valid for offshore remuneration pertaining to the asst. yrs. 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 and 1995-96 with a direction that if after verification the AO comes to the conclusion that the assessee has not taken the amount of remuneration in respective assessment years into consideration in working out the deduction under Section 44C , the claim would in principle be permissible in the respective assessment years. So, however, deduction has got to be allowed as already pointed out in accordance with Section 40(a) read with the proviso. The tax not having been deducted at source in the respective assessment years but having been paid in asst. yr. 1995-96, the deduction in respect of remuneration is allowable in the year of payment, i.e., asst. yr. 1995-96. This would take care of part of the additional ground raised before the Tribunal by the assessee in asst. yr. 1995-96 whereby the deduction in respect of the offshore remuneration and tax component pertaining to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 is claimed as deduction in asst. yr. 1995-96. For asst. yr. 1995-96, tax has been paid by the assessee in the same assessment year and, therefore, the prohibition under Section 40(a) is not attracted. The claim of the assessee was directed to be considered accordingly. 118. The objection of the Revenue about the assessee having failed to establish as to whether the services have been rendered by the expatriate employees in regard to the PE of the assessee in India was found untenable with the observation that if the employees have not rendered services in India for which the remuneration had been received abroad, then how was it that the assessee was under an obligation to deduct tax from their remuneration and that the very fact that the assessee has accepted its obligation to deduct taxes from salary paid to the expatriate employees was sufficient to infer that services had been rendered in India. Similarly, the objection of the Revenue that the taxes have been paid on behalf of the expatriate employees and not as tax deducted at source was also found untenable in view of the provisions of Section 199 providing that any deduction made in accordance with the provisions of Section 192 and paid to the Central Government is to be treated as a payment of tax on behalf of the person from whose income deduction is made under Section 205 of the IT Act. There is a bar for the Revenue to demand tax from the assessee to the extent the amount has been deducted from the income. It was, therefore, observed that the tax deducted at source by the assessee and paid to the Government is to be treated as fine paid on behalf of the expatriate employees. 119. As regards tax deducted at source in respect of remuneration paid outside India to expatriate employees, the Tribunal held that in principle, the assessee would be entitled to deduction in respect of tax component of the salary also if the salary is found to be deductible as per the directions of the Tribunal for asst. yr. 1996-97 and, accordingly, no deduction would be permissible in asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 by operation of Section 40(a)(i) of the IT Act and the claim for the said assessment year, shall have to be disallowed for the reason of non-deduction of tax but allowed the same in asst. yr. 1995-96. Both the Members, therefore, held that subject to verification, the claim of remuneration and tax deducted has not been taken into account under Section 44C in regard to expatriate employees, the deduction relating to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 would be permissible in asst. yr. 1995-96 as per the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) of the Act. 120. In Asst. yr. 1995-96, the assessee had also claimed a deduction for remuneration and tax paid for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92. The Vice President (JM) held that no evidence has been placed on record to establish that the assessee at any stage made the claim for deduction in the said assessment year and in principle, the claim of the assessee has got to be considered in assessment year to which the claim pertains. It is also observed that it is only when the claim is considered and found allowable but for provisions of Section 40(a) that the same cannot be allowed in the year of payment and since the claim for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 is not established to have been made or considered in earlier year, the benefit according to him, is not permissible in asst. yr. 1995-96 merely because tax has been paid in the year under appeal. According to him, the benefit of the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) is not available in the absence of claim made in the respective assessment years. He, accordingly, upheld the disallowance pertaining to asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 in regard to the remuneration and tax component in asst. yr. 1995-96. The AM, on the other hand, held that the assessee would be entitled to deduction in respect of the tax component and the salary for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 in asst. yr. 1995-96 notwithstanding the fact that no claim was ever made in asst. yrs. 1990-91 or 1991-92 by the assessee before the AO. According to him, Section 40(a)(i) permits deduction in the year of payment and, therefore, the omission to claim in the relevant year is of no consequence. This is the first point of difference between the two Members. 121. The learned counsel of the assessee submitted that there is no warrant in imposing the restriction for the allowability of remuneration and tax deducted at source on the ground that it was not claimed in the respective assessment years as a deduction. He referred to the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) and submitted that, where the tax has been deducted or paid in the subsequent year, then such sum shall be allowed as a deduction in computing the income of the previous year, such tax has been paid and since the tax has been paid in the year under consideration, the deduction is to be allowed and it is so held by both the JM and the AM insofar as the claim for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95 is concerned. The learned Departmental Representative, however, supported the orders of the Departmental Authorities and the view taken by the JM. 122. I have heard the parties and considered their rival submissions. There is no dispute as to the allowability of the remuneration and tax deducted/deductible at source as revenue expenditure. Both the Members have agreed on this point and in fact, as aforesaid have allowed similar deduction for payment of remuneration relating to asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95. A sum chargeable under this Act (remuneration in this case) which is payable either outside India or in India to a non-resident, is not allowable as a deduction because of the provisions of Section 40(a)(i) if the tax has not been deducted or after deduction has not been paid before the expiry of the time prescribed under Sub-section (1) of Section 200 and in accordance with the other provisions of Chapter XVII-B of the Act . When a deduction is not allowable because of the statutory provisions, it would make no difference whether the same was claimed or not by the assessee. Because of the proviso to Section 40(a)(i) such sum has to be allowed as a deduction in computing the income of the previous year in which such tax deducted at source has been paid in subsequent year. 123. Section 40(a)(i) reads as under : 124. On a bare reading of the aforesaid provision, it is evident such sum shall be allowed as a deduction in computing the income of the previous year in which such tax has been paid if tax has been deducted in any subsequent year or, has been deducted in the previous year but paid in any subsequent year after the expiry of the time prescribed under Sub-section (1) of Section 200 . No restriction is placed for allowability of deduction of the remuneration paid in the subsequent year that it should have been claimed in the earlier year. As aforesaid, it will also not stand to logic that when a deduction is not allowable under a particular provision of the Act, in this case Section 40 of the Act, that the assessee should make a claim and that should be rejected at the first instance in the relevant year. The proviso does not contemplate any such restriction. On the contrary it would be futile rather exposing the assessee to penal consequences if he made a wrong claim which is not allowable due to specific prohibition. Such a restriction, therefore, cannot be read in the language of Section 40(a)(i) of the Act nor could it be inferred so. The deduction for asst. yrs. 1990-91 and 1991-92 has also to be allowed similarly as an admissible deduction with similar direction as were given for allowing the claim for asst. yrs. 1992-93 to 1994-95. 125. Second difference is with regard to allowability of interest paid under Section 201(1A) . As aforesaid, the assessee had also claimed interest paid by the assessee as a defaulter of non-payment of tax deductible at source. Here, the Vice President (JM) held that the assessee had committed a default in discharge of its obligation of deduction of tax and payment to the Government in respect of salary paid to expatriate employees as a result of which it had to pay interest under Section 201(1A) of the Act. No deduction according to him, would be permissible to the assessee in respect of interest payable as an assessee-in-default for its failure to discharge its statutory obligation of non-deduction of tax and non-payment thereof to the Government in contrast to the obligation of the assessee as an employer. The AM, on the other hand, expressed an opinion that interest charged under Section 201(1A) is part of the cost of employment to the assessee and, accordingly, on the same parity of reasoning of allowability of the remuneration and taxes, the interest, would also be permissible deduction. 126. As regards this claim, the assessee's contention is that interest for the late payment of TDS imposed under Section 201(1A) relating to the deduction for all the asst. yrs. 1990-91 to 1994-95, is part of the remuneration, that it is therefore, an additional cost and would be allowable on the same reasoning as a salary payment is allowable. The learned counsel of the assessee also submitted that it is compensatory in nature and should be allowed as a deduction. Interest, according to him, would partake the character of the original sum which is paid late and when the tax deducted at source itself is an allowable deduction, the interest cannot be disallowed. The liability for the interest has arisen in asst. yr. 1995-96 and, therefore, it should be allowed as a deduction. He also referred to the decision of the Tribunal in the case of ITO v. Titagarh Steels Ltd. (2001) 73 TTJ (Cal) 297 : (2001) 79 ITD 532 (Cal) wherein it is held that interest is compensatory and not penal in nature. The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Harshad Shantilal Mehta v. Custodian and Ors. is also relied upon. The learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand, supported the orders of the Revenue authorities and submitted that interest is for the delay in discharging the statutory obligation of the assessee for payment of tax and, therefore, would not be an allowable deduction. 127. The parties were heard and their arguments were considered. The term 'tax' has been defined in the DTA vide Article 3(d) of the DTA to mean Indian tax or Netherlands tax as the context requires, but does not include any amount which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this convention applies or which represents a penalty imposed relating to this tax. By this definition, the interest paid cannot be treated or equated to a tax payment. Tax deducted at source is the liability of the assessee under Section 192 / 195 of the Act. It was to be deducted by it at the time of payment of salary to the expatriate employees. The assessee committed a default and an omission in relation to the tax by not deducting the same within the prescribed time under the IT Act . The interest was thus payable for that default or omission in relation to the tax deducted at source. Therefore, on a combined reading of the definition of tax in Article 3(d) of the DTA in conjunction with the provisions of Sections 192 and 195 of the Act, the interest, in my opinion, would not be an allowable deduction. It has nothing to do with carrying on the business of the assessee. It may be that the tax was deducted for and on behalf of the employees but it was an obligation of the assessee itself under the IT Act, 1961 , to deduct the tax within the prescribed time and, therefore, it was a personal liability of the assessee-bank. In the decision of Jubilee Investments & Industries Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT and Ors. , the Calcutta High Court dealt with the scope of levy of penalty under Section 221 of the Act for failure to deposit the tax deducted at source in time and in that connection, the Calcutta High Court observed that when the assessee is found to be in default in depositing the amount of TDS within the time prescribed, he is liable to pay interest as well as he is liable to pay penalty and the fact that he has suffered loss or financial stringency and, therefore, could not deposit the amount in time has nothing to do with the liability to deposit TDS. 128. Besides the statutory obligation to deduct tax from the remuneration and pay to the Government, the assessee in the present case has undertaken to pay the tax on behalf of the employees and having not paid it failed to discharge the obligation it had which but for such an agreement of employment the expatriate employees had to discharge. The assessee has not discharged its obligation on behalf of the expatriate employees insofar as the taxes have not been paid as it had neither filed the return nor was there any assessment made. The interest liability in any case is not upon the employees. It was on the assessee itself for not complying with the statutory obligation to deduct the tax which was its own liability under the Act because of the provisions of Sections 192 and 195 . This obligation is independent of the obligation of the assessee as an agent of the expatriate employees. Therefore, in my opinion, the payment of interest does not partake the character of the remuneration package in respect of the expatriate employees. The decisions referred to in the case of Mahalaxmi Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT and in the case of Prakash Cotton Mills (P) Ltd. v. CIT , in the case of CIT v. Ahmedabad Cotton Mfg. Co. Ltd. and Ors. would have no application as these cases were under a different statute dealing with payment of cess and assessee's liability under contractual obligations. Allowability of interest for non-payment of income-tax came for consideration in cases under the income-tax and non-allowability of interest as a deduction gets support from the two decisions of the Supreme Court in the case of Smt. Padmavati Jaikrishna v. Addl . CIT . In the case of Padmavati Jaykrishna (supra), the payment of interest was to the Department on late payment of tax and annuity deposit and in that context the Supreme Court held that in the case where the interest was paid on the amount borrowed to pay taxes and annuity deposit the assessee was meeting the liability for income-tax and annuity deposit, it was a personal one and the dominant purpose for paying annuity deposit was not to earn income but to meet the statutory liability for making the deposit. The expenditure was not, therefore, wholly and exclusively for the purpose of earning income. Similarly, in this case, the liability to deduct tax and pay the same to the Government was personal one imposed under the IT Act on the payer of the salary and, therefore, interest paid by the assessee for the delayed payment thereof would also be a personal liability of the assessee-bank and failure to discharge that liability in time would not entitle the assessee to claim the deduction for such interest payment. 129. In the case of East India Pharmaceutical Ltd. v. CIT , the interest was paid on the overdraft which was utilized for payment of income-tax and it was held to be not allowable as an expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of business. Again in the case of Bharat Commerce & Industries Ltd. v. CIT , the Supreme Court held that when interest is paid for committing the default in respect of statutory liability to pay advance tax, the amount paid and expenditure incurred in that connection is in no way connected with the preserving or promoting the business of the assessee. Their Lordships held that interest levied on the assessee under Section 139 of the IT Act, 1961, for delay in filing the return and under Section 215 for the failure to pay advance tax upto the statutory percentage are not allowable deduction as business expenditure under Section 37 of the Act. 130. It might be true that the payment of salary and the liability for payment of tax thereon are part of the pay package or employment cost of the assessee and that they are in the nature of expenses wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business of the assessee but a part of that liability has partaken a character of a statutory liability. That part is, that as an employer the assessee was under an obligation under Sections 192 and 195 of the Act to deduct the tax and deposit the same with the Government of India. This statutory liability was a personal liability of the assessee and on failure to deduct that tax, the assessee becomes an assessee-in-default. Interest is paid for the failure of discharging that liability under the Act. The interest, therefore, was levied upon the assessee for the failure in discharging a personal liability and, therefore, cannot be allowed as a deduction. The fact that such tax deducted at source would ultimately be adjusted against the liability of the payee in computing its income-tax liabilities does not, in my opinion, convert the liability of the assessee and consequently, in my opinion, the payment of interest under Section 201(1A) cannot be allowed as a deduction. 131. The third difference is regarding the allowability of an amount of Rs. 9,57,58,904 being the operational loss claimed to have arisen on account of transaction in securities and is arising in the appeal for asst. yr. 1994-95. The assessee had claimed deduction of Rs. 9,57,58,904 being the amount refunded to the Punjab Housing Board (PHB) on account of the investment made by them. The payment of interest at the rate of 17 per cent was also claimed separately. The AO allowed both the deductions but the CIT(A) enhanced the income of the assessee by disallowing the deduction for the refund of Rs. 9,57,58,904. The facts of the case are that the assessee received a sum of Rs. 10 crores from PHB, for investment by the assessee, for a period of 180 days subject to the condition that the money was to be invested in any Government securities, UTI or tax-free bonds which can give with a minimum guaranteed return of 17 per cent and that in case of emergency, money be available to PHB with whatever returns that becomes due at that time. No specific directions were there to invest the money in specific securities. It was in the course of investment of this money received, the assessee issued a cheque of Rs. 9,75,58,904 on 9th March, 1992, to Andhra Bank for purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds @ Rs. 97 per bond plus accrued interest and handed over a payment advice and the cheque, to a broker Shri N.K. Agarwal. As Shri. N.K. Agarwal failed to deliver the said 17 per cent NPC Bonds, the assessee sought information from Andhra Bank who vide their letter dt. 2nd June, 1992 informed that the amount received was credited in the account of Shri Hiten Dalai, as per the instructions of Shri. N.K. Agarwal. 132. With the advent of 'payment advice-cum-cheque' in the Indian banking, it is no longer a cheque book which is used by the large corporate account-holders. These cheque books are now replaced by packets of perforated computer friendly forms, used as a continuous computer stationery. These are numbered advices. These are in two parts and can be separated by tearing off at the perforated points--the top portion containing the details of the person issuing the cheques like a letterhead, with columns for the name and address of the person to whom cheque is issued, details of payment, and details of purposes for which it is issued; the bottom portion being a form for the cheque itself. These forms are computer friendly and, while processing the payment, the details of payment are printed on the top portion, and the details necessary for cheque are printed on the bottom portion. The top portion is used as a payment advice, while bottom portion, on being removed from the aforesaid advice, works as a cheque itself. This was the system for the transaction with Andhra Bank. The cheque portion appeared to be in favour of Andhra Bank but the top portion was used, as a part of normally acceptable practice, to credit the accounts of Hiten Dalai, one of the central characters in several cases of security scams in this country. 133. Thereafter it seems that the alternative security in the form of original letter of allotment covering 1 lakh 9 per cent tax-free secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of Rs. 1,000 each fully paid-up (6A series) Railway Bonds 1991-92 issued by Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. (IRFC in short) were offered by the said Shri N.K. Agarwal. The assessee accepted the delivery though on the understanding that the same would be held as a security pending delivery of the originally contemplated purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds. When sent for the registration of these 1 lakh IRFC Bonds in favour of the assessee it was, however, refused on the ground that the said bonds have already been registered in the name of Standard Chartered Bank. The assessee made an appeal against the refusal but the same was dismissed by the Company Law Board vide order dt. 25th Aug., 1994. The assessee thereafter filed an appeal to the Delhi High Court and that was transferred to Special Court and there also it was dismissed on 31st March, 1998. In the meantime, the assessee, it seems, settled the claim of PHB by returning the balance principal of Rs. 9,57,58,904 on 7th July, 1993 along with 17 per cent interest in the year under consideration, i.e., after adjusting the sum of Rs. 24,41,096 returned at the time when it issued a cheque in favour of Andhra Bank for the purchase of NPC Bonds for Rs. 9,57,58,904 in March, 1992, and a sum of Rs. 18 lakhs received from Shri N.K. Agrawal refunded to PHB thereafter. This payment of Rs. 9,57,58,904 and 17 per cent interest payment was claimed as a loss. 134. The Vice President (JM) held that the assessee had made the investment in the course of its business with Andhra Bank through the broker Shri N.K. Agarwal. Andhra Bank credited the amount received through Shri N.K. Agarwal in the account of Shri Hiten Dalai as per the instructions of Shri N.K. Agarwal. The claim of the assessee, on the other hand, is that no such instructions were issued by the assessee and the cheques paid in the name of Andhra Bank were issued for the purchase of NPC Bonds on behalf of the PHB. This fact is disputed by Andhra Bank. According to him, if at all the assessee can be said to have lost the investment made through Shri N.K. Agarwal, its discovery was on receiving the information from IRFC in June, 1992, informing that IRFC Bonds have already been transferred in the name of Standard Chartered Bank. The said date, according to him, fell in asst. yr. 1993-94. The Vice President (JM) held that refund to PHB was of their investment with the assessee and the payment of interest on such investment was rightly allowed as an expenditure incurred for the purpose of business. It is, according to him, like purchases being made from A and goods having been sold to B and if B does not pay the price of the goods, it may amount to loss suffered by the assessee but the payment to A for the goods supplied will not amount to loss to the assessee though the loss to the assessee on account of B's refusal to pay relates to the goods supplied by A. According to him, in view of the disputed facts, it cannot be said that the assessee had suffered a loss. He further observed that the refund of principal and interest to the investor, PHB, in any case is not an event of loss. He, therefore, held that loss does not pertain to the year under appeal. He, however, made it clear that this decision is without prejudice to the right of the assessee to claim the loss, if any, (in the year) in which it can be said to have been incurred. 135. The AM, however, held that the assessee is entitled to deduction and, according to him, the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of CIT v. Nainital Bank under which the assessee had two options--(i) to enforce its right strictly in accordance with law and thereby to lose the goodwill it had built up among the constituents, and (ii) to compensate the constituent for the loss suffered in the securities scam, and maintain its business connections and goodwill. In choosing the second alternative, as held by the Supreme Court, the assessee-bank, according to the AM, laid out expenditure for the purpose of its business and consequently, it would be a bona fide business expenditure eligible for deduction under Section 37(1) of the Act. As regards the finality of the dispute pending with Andhra Bank, N.K. Agarwal and Hiten Dalai, he observed that firstly there is a fallacy that it was the loss incurred on behalf of PHB which is being claimed as deduction. According to him it was the payment to PHB, which was warranted on account of commercial expediency rather than contractual obligations, which is being claimed as a deduction. Secondly, on assuming that such a possibility may have any relevance in this matter, he observed that even the 'possibility' of recovery has to be a reasonable possibility, i.e., what a reasonable person would expect in the given circumstances. The material on record, in his understanding, indicates that the assessee-bank has been taken for a ride by unscrupulous operators, misusing the loopholes in the system, and exploiting the fact that transactions involving such huge amounts were entered into, perhaps as a normal course in the banking industry, without taking highest degree of safety measures and incorporating checks and balances as such, and but for this laxity inherent in the normal banking practices, scams of the kind which have become somewhat common in the recent past could not have taken place. The fact that the matter is still pending before the Special Courts set up for dealing with security scam cases, by itself, cannot imply that there are reasonable prospects of recouping the loss, because, it is also a well-known fact, perhaps as equally well-known as the fact about existence of these Special Courts itself, that the claims on these scamsters are several times the value of their own assets. This money does not also appear to be recoverable from Andhra Bank also as in response of RBI's letter dt. 16th June, 1993, stating "issue of a licence to assessee-bank for opening a branch in Madras had again been decided to be kept in abeyance till such time as the dispute on securities transactions between assessee-bank and Andhra Bank is resolved", the assessee-bank has clearly given more importance to the licence for Chennai branch rather than claim, whatever were its merits, on Andhra Bank. The assessee's perception, according to him, was that there was no reasonable hope of recovery of this amount and there is no material to doubt or dispute that the money so refunded to PHB, according to him, constitutes a loss, and is, accordingly, booked as an expenditure, that the same is beyond reasonable hope of recovery, and that the chances of recouping the loss are too remote to affect the accounting treatment of the loss. 136. The assessee's contention is that it was a business loss. It approached the RBI in April, 1993, but they refused to interfere in the matter. The assessee was also refused permission vide RBI letter dt. 16th June, 1993, to open a branch until the dispute with Andhra Bank was settled. The assessee's main claim is that the matter was settled with PHB on 7th July, 1993 and that date falls within the previous year relevant to the asst. yr. 1994-95 and, therefore, it is allowable as a deduction. It was also submitted that in order to avoid adverse publicity, the assessee in the business interests considered it prudent to settle the claim and, therefore, in view of the decision of Supreme Court in the case of Nainital Bank (supra), it is an allowable business loss. Reference was also made to CBDT Circular No. 35D wherein the loss incidental to business is advised to be allowed in the year in which it was discovered. Reference was also invited to the decision of Gujarat High Court in the case of Dinesh Mills Ltd. v. CIT . He also referred to the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Cama Motors (P) Ltd. v. IAC (1987) 29 TTJ (Ahd) 452 : (1987) 21 ITD 640 (Ahd) allowing the claim of the assessee after taking into consideration the decision of Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills v. CIT (1971) 82 ITR 958 (P&H). In this case, it is held that the claim should be allowed in the year of theft and if any amount is recovered therefrom, it would be offered to tax. The Revenue's case is that the claim of the assessee was sub judice and it was not allowable on mere possibility of its non-recovery. According to the Revenue, the assessee has not suffered any loss in the year under appeal and, therefore, the deduction was not permissible. 137. The assessee is in the business of arranging investment for its clients. It is true that the assessee was making investment specifically on behalf of PHB and it was bound to conduct the business of the customer as per directions given by him, or, in the absence of such instructions, according to the normal usage. The assessee received a sum of Rs. 10 crores from PHB, for investment by the assessee, for a period of 180 days not necessarily and specifically in the investment of these 17 per cent NPC Bonds but with an understanding and subject to the condition that the money was to be invested in any Government securities, UTI or tax-free bonds with a minimum guaranteed return of 17 per cent. It was also with a further understanding that in case of emergency, money would be made available to PHB with whatever returns that becomes due at that time. It was for the investment of this money received that the assessee issued a cheque of Rs. 9,75,58,904 on 9th March, 1992, to Andhra Bank. It was for the purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds @ Rs. 97 per bond plus accrued interest. The assessee arranged investment. It however, fell down. The assessee made another deal though stated to be as a security for the 1st deal in substitute in the form of IRFC Bonds valued at Rs. 9,57,58,904 and also received a sum of Rs. 18 lakhs representing the difference in value of NPC Bonds and the IRFC Bonds, on 18th March, 1992, but even these IRFC Bonds could also not be transferred to the assessee-bank as the same were already sold to Standard Chattered Bank. The assessee pursued both the matters further. The matter of registration was carried to CLB, then to High Court from where it was transferred to Special Court dealing with scam matters and lost finally in 1998 and the matter of N.K. Agarwal (is) stated to be still pending. By the end of previous year relevant to asst. yr. 1994-95 both the matters (were) pending adjudication. 138. In my view, receipt of Rs. 10 crores from PHB and issuance of cheque for purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds are two parts of the deal. These receipt of money and investment in bonds are two independent different transactions. The other facts, i.e., refund of unused amount of Rs. 24,41,096 to PHB, receipt of Rs. 18 lakhs from N.K. Agarwal being difference between the market value of IRFC Bonds and alternate investment in IRFC Bonds, though indicate a common thread, i.e., the business of the assessee and its client PHB but all the transactions are independent, one after the other but not as integral part of the same transaction. While making the purchase of 17 per cent NPC Bonds, assessee was making an investment as a businessman though for and on behalf of the customer, i.e., PHB. In my opinion, therefore, the loss was incurred by the assessee as such on its own account, and not on account of its client PHB, on whose behalf and specifically in whose name, the assessee was trying to acquire securities. The assessee stated to have agreed to bear this loss because of commercial expediency and one important factor contributing to this commercial expediency is stated to be that the RBI declined to issue a licence for opening a new branch office at Chennai by its letter dt. 16th June, 1993. It might be a fact that within three weeks of this communication, the assessee-bank entered into settlement with PHB but that does not have any bearing or influencing factor for settling the issue with PHB. RBI's refusal or suspension of decision to issue licence was for the reason that dispute in security investment with Andhra bank was to be settled first. PHB was not in picture at all. Settlement for payment of Rs. 9.57 crores is with PHB and not Andhra Bank. Nainital Bank 's case, therefore, is of no help to the assessee, I, therefore, hold that the refund of money to PHB was not a loss to the assessee. Loss, if any, which could be said to have been suffered by the assessee was on account of the decision to invest in NPC Bonds through Shri N.K. Agarwal. Here, the broker Shri N.K. Agarwal had played a mischief and consequently taken that upon himself by offering another security in IRFC Bonds, Andhra Bank has transferred the money on the instructions of Shri N.K. Agarwal, stated to be on behalf of the assessee. That fact is disputed by the assessee. The assessee had not pursued the matter vis-a-vis Andhra Bank. It had carried the matter further accepting the alternative security in the form of IRFC Bonds, the registration for which was refused on the ground that they have already been registered in the name of another bank. The matter of registration of alternative security ended in 1998 whereas the matter vis-a-vis Shri N.K. Agarwal is pending even on date. In these circumstances, in my opinion, there was no loss which can be said to have arisen to the assessee in the year under consideration. 139. In the case of Dinesh Mills Ltd. (supra), the assessee carried on business in textiles. It maintained mercantile system of accounting. It had incurred loss of Rs. 13,40,000 on account of embezzlement by its employee between 29th Jan., 1974, and 26th April, 1976. The assessee discovered the loss during the asst. yr. 1977-78 and claimed the entire loss as deduction in that year. The AO disallowed the claim on the ground that the extent of loss remained indeterminate or unknown during the assessment year in question and the amount of actual loss could be known only when the assessee entered into a compromise decree with the defaulter-employee in the calendar year 1980. The CIT(A) considered the embezzlement in two parts-one which could reasonably be estimated to be recoverable and the other which could not be reasonably expected to be recoverable and ascertained the position at the end of the previous year, i.e., 31st Dec., 1976. He held that the assessee had a reasonable hope of recovery for Rs. 7,20,000 while the balance Rs. 6,20,000 was lost by the assessee for all time to come and granted deduction thereof. The Tribunal accepted that the loss was incidental to the business and upheld the order of the CIT(A). On a reference, the High Court held that in view of the statement made on behalf of the assessee to the effect that no deduction had been allowed in any subsequent year, the assessee would be entitled to deduction of loss during the assessment year in question as this was the year in which the loss on account of embezzlement was, in fact, discovered. It set aside the matter to the Tribunal to ascertain the allowability or otherwise of embezzlement loss in the light of the statement made on behalf of the assessee. 140. In the case of Cama Motors (P) Ltd. (supra), the Ahmedabad Bench of the Tribunal was dealing with a case of expenditure of Rs. 2,87,516 on the purchase of four jeeps, which had been handed over to it on the basis of order placed by the executive engineer directly with the supplier. The assessee claimed that on or about 1st May, 1981, these jeeps were stolen and that it suspected that its sales manager was involved in the theft. On police investigation, the suspect was arrested and the jeeps were recovered from him. The Magistrate, however, found that the jeeps were registered in the names of outsiders, and hence ordered that they might be restored to the registered owners. On appeal by the assessee, the High Court stayed the. Magistrate's order and directed that the jeeps be placed in the custody of the assessee for safe keeping till the final decision by the Court. The High Court also ordered that the vehicles must be kept unused and that the Magistrate should dispose of the case before 31st Dec., 1982. The dispute about ownership remained unsolved even till September, 1986. For the asst. yr. 1982-83, the assessee claimed the amount of Rs. 2,87,516 as a business loss, but the claim was rejected by the IAC and the CIT(A). The High Court held that the four jeeps lying with the company under orders of the Court were not the property of the company. They were not reflected in the closing stock of the company and were undergoing continuous deterioration being subjected to the elements day in and day out. As against this, a sum of Rs. 2,78,516 had gone out of the coffers of the company for purchase of four jeeps which had been handed over to the executive engineer. It was not known as of today what the company would recover as a result of the conclusion of the legal proceedings and when. The alleged accused was absconding. The record did not state anything as to whether any money was recovered from him when his arrest was effected. In case the company recovered anything by the sale of the four jeeps, the amount might not be much because of the considerable erosion in their value after a lapse of time. In these circumstances, the Tribunal held that the claim merited allowance not only on the basis of system of accounting being followed by it, but also on the facts surrounding the claim. 141. In the case of Laxmi Ginning & Oil Mills (supra), a case before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the assessee sold a certain quantity of oil to a company for a total value of Rs. 26,642. The purchaser-company did not take delivery. The assessee then sold that quantity of oil in the open market at the risk of the purchaser and realized only a sum of Rs. 20,572 incurring a loss of Rs. 9,160 which was debited by him to the "groundnut account" and credited for the "claim in dispute account". The assessee thereafter filed a suit against the company for recovery of the said loss and ultimately obtained a decree in 1962. In the meantime, the assessee claimed the above loss in its return for the asst. yr. 1953-54. The AO disallowed the loss on the ground that the loss debited to the trading account had not been finally settled, the debit created in the groundnut account cannot be allowed and added back the same. CIT(A) and Tribunal upheld the contention of the AO. On a reference, the High Court held that the loss was suffered by the assessee in the accounting year relevant to the asst. yr. 1953-54 and if, as a result of the litigation, it was found entitled to less amount than the amount claimed, the difference could be included in the assessable income of the assessee for the year during which the final decision of the litigation was made. Similarly, if the assessee had been successful in obtaining the entire amount of the loss from the company, the amount could be included in the income of the assessee for the year during which the amount was actually recovered. The pendency of litigation about the loss suffered cannot militate against the fact that the loss was suffered by the assessee during the accounting year relevant to the asst. yr. 1953-54 when the company did not take delivery and the assessee had sold the goods in the open market for a lesser amount. All these cases could have helped the assessee in the present case if the claim was made in the appeal for asst. yr. 1993-94 when the assessee got the information that the cheques issued for investment in NPC Bonds were diverted to the account of Shri Hiten Dalal or when the alternative security in IRFC Bonds was found to be registered in some other bank's name. Both these dates were falling in asst. yr. 1993-94 and consequently, the assessee cannot claim the loss in the year under consideration even on the basis of the three decisions referred to above . In view of the above, in my opinion, the CIT(A) was right in disallowing the claim of the assessee. 142. The matter will now go to the Division Bench which heard the appeals for passing a majority order.