1. The aforesaid suit is filed by the plaintiff seeking a decree of
permanent injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants,
etc. from using the trade mark/title/tagline NEWSHOUR or any other such
mark/title/tagline comprising NEWSHOUR as a part thereof amounting to
infringement of the plaintiff's registered mark. A decree of permanent
injunction is also sought to restrain the defendants from adopting or using
the trademarks/titles/taglines NATION WANTS TO KNOW or any other
trade mark/title/tagline either by itself or comprising NATION WANTS TO
KNOW or any derivatives or combinations thereof. Other connected reliefs CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 1 of 43 are also sought. 2. IA No. 7306/2017 is filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 CPC seeking an interim injunction to restrain the defendants from adopting
and using the trademarks/titles/taglines NEWSHOUR and NATION
WANTS TO KNOW or any other trade mark/title/tagline comprising
NEWSHOUR as a part thereof amounting to infringement of the plaintiff's
registered trade mark as well as dilution or acts of passing off. 3. I may only note that when this matter came up for hearing on
05.07.2017, this court noted the submission of learned senior counsel for the
plaintiff that he does not wish to press for an interim order at that stage. This
court also directed that till the present suit is pending, none of the parties to
the suit will report or publish any news with regard to it except reproducing
the court order and the order was not to operate against third party
publication or news channels or social media. 4. The plaintiff Company is said to be the flagship Company of the
Times Group carrying on print media business since 1838. The key business
of the plaintiff Company is television broadcasting and its distribution
services. The television division of the Times Group is under the plaintiff
Company. 'Times Now' is a news channel operated by the plaintiff having
several segments of programmes. One of such programmes, it is stated,
which was launched in 2006 titled as THE NEWSHOUR pertained to
discussions, panel discussions and debates on current topics. This
programme THE NEWSHOUR was launched by Times Now on
31.01.2006. It is stated that the title of the said programme THE
NEWSHOUR is the plaintiff's registered trade mark and has been in
continuous use since 2006 having been developed in various forms and CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 2 of 43 derivatives including word and label marks. It is claimed that the mark THE
NEWSHOUR has attained distinct identity to differentiate the programme
amongst other programmes in the industry. The plaintiff gives the details of
the registration of the trade mark THE NEWSHOUR under Classes 16, 35
and 38, the registration being dated 15.05.2014 with the user claimed since
31.01.2006. Hence, it is claimed that the plaintiff being the proprietor of the
trade mark THE NEWSHOUR has a statutory right to the exclusive use
thereof in India. The plaintiff has also applied for registration of the mark
NEWSHOUR in Classes 9 and 41 and the same are pending registration
before the Trade Mark Registry. It is also claimed that every month the plaintiff releases multiple
advertisements for its publication through e-mails, newspaper ads, etc. It is
claimed that the Television Audience Measurement (TAM) and Broadcast
Audience Research Council (BARC) Reports for the year 2010 suggest that
the plaintiff's Channel Times Now and the programmes aired on the
channels have gathered maximum number of eye balls/viewership in
comparison to competitor channels and programmes. 5. It is further stated that in order to popularize the said programme
'THE NEWSHOUR', the plaintiff invested its resources to generate
strategies, concepts, implement segments and formulate catch lines/titles.
During such creative efforts by the plaintiff the catch line/tagline/title
NATION WANTS TO KNOW was created for and on behalf of the
plaintiff. It is pleaded that this tagline was coined and developed by the then
editorial and marketing team of the plaintiff as key words to be used during
the discussions and debates conducted on the NEWSHOUR programme. It
is stated that on account of usage of the tagline primarily as a part of the CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 3 of 43 programme, the same has acquired goodwill and distinctiveness indicative
of the programme originating from the plaintiff in the eyes of the viewers of
the channel. The tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW is a coined mark
and is inherently creative. Keeping in mind the goodwill and popularity
generated by the tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW, the plaintiff has
applied for registration of the trade mark- word mark and logo of the said
tagline in Classes 38 and 41 which covers broadcasting and entertainment
services respectively. The applications have been filed on 17.12.2016. It is
stated in the plaint that initially the applications were filed for registration of
the mark NATION WANTS TO KNOW as "proposed to be used" on
account of inadvertence and oversight. The plaintiff has thereafter filed an
application for amendment of the word mark applications by mentioning the
user date as 31.01.2006. 6. It is reiterated that the plaintiff is the proprietor of the
trademarks/titles/taglines THE NEWSHOUR and THE NATION WANTS
TO KNOW. The plaintiff has been using the mark/title The NEWSHOUR
continuously since the launch of Times Now i.e. since 2006 and the tagline
THE NATION WANTS TO KNOW has been closely associated and used
with THE NEWSHOUR for over several years. It is claimed that the
plaintiff has for the said mark/title/tagline continuously expended huge sums
of money and time in creation, production, advertisement, marketing and
publicity of the brand and its channel. The details of the marketing spends
have been stated in the plaint. 7. Regarding the defendants, it is stated that defendants No. 1 and 3 are
companies. Defendant No. 1 is the company which has filed the impugned
trade mark applications which are subject matter of the present dispute. Defendant No. 2 is said to be the Managing Director of defendant No. 3
company and is said to be involved in the same business of media and
broadcasting as that of the plaintiff. Defendant No. 2 is a journalist and an
ex-employee of the plaintiff Company. He resigned from the post of
Editor-in-Chief of the plaintiff's channel w.e.f. 18.11.2016. On 06.05.2017,
he launched a news channel 'Republic TV' as well as a website
www.republicworld.com. The defendants have also filed trade mark
applications for registration of the mark NATION WANTS TO KNOW,
ARNAB GOSWAMI NEWSHOUR, GOSWAMI NEWSHOUR SUNDAY,
etc. claiming proprietary rights. The applications have been filed in class 38
on 27.01.2017 for some of the marks/device. The user for the mark
NATION WANTS TO KNOW is claimed since 20.11.2016 and for other
marks, the applications mention 'proposed to be used'. 8. It is stated that on coming to know that the defendants propose to
adopt and use the aforesaid infringing trade mark/title/tagline, the plaintiff
issued cease and desist notices dated 01.04.2017 and 13.04.2017 to the
defendants to desist from adopting and using the infringing
marks/titles/taglines THE NEWSHOUR and THE NATION WANTS TO
KNOW respectively. It is stated that no reply was received. However, on
24.06.2017, the defendants commenced use of the tagline NATION
WANTS TO KNOW on their news channel. 9. It is stated that defendant No. 2 had joined the plaintiff's company
Times Global Broadcasting Company Limited in 2004/2005 well before the
launch of the plaintiff's Times Now Channel. He was playing a very vital
role in the plaintiff's channel as Editor-in-Chief. He was privy to utmost
confidential information. It is stated that as per the employment agreement CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 5 of 43 and other terms of the employment of defendant No. 2 with the plaintiff, all
intellectual property rights in everything and anything created, made,
developed or written during defendant No. 2's employment are the sole and
the exclusive property of the plaintiff to the exclusion of the entire world
including the defendants. It is pleaded that defendant No. 2 is trying to take
undue advantage of his past services with the plaintiff and popularity of the
plaintiff's programme under the said trade mark/title/tagline. Reliance is
placed on clause 4 of the letter of appointment dated 31.05.2005. It is
reiterated that any brand image which may have accrued to defendant No. 2
over the period of time on account of being an anchor of the plaintiff's show
was due to the investment made by the plaintiff and defendant No. 2
represented the plaintiff and hence, all goodwill and proprietary rights
created during such period belong to the plaintiff. 10. It is further stated that defendant No. 2 and Ms. Prema Sridevi, an ex-
employee of the plaintiff committed breach of the contract and
misappropriated the plaintiff's confidential data and proprietary content
pertaining to news stories and committed appropriate offences. The plaintiff
hence filed a complaint with respect to the same before the police. The
plaintiff also filed a suit being CS(COMM) 370/2017 before this court. The
said suit is said to be pending. Vide order dated 26.05.2017 in CS(COMM)
370/2017 , a statement was recorded on behalf of the defendants that clause
4 of defendant No.2's appointment letter dated 31.03.2005 and clause 6 of
defendant No.3's letter dated 16.06.2005 have not been violated and that the
said defendants have no intention of violating the aforesaid clauses. It is
pleaded that the defendants are not only guilty of committing infringement CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 6 of 43 and passing off but are also guilty of violating the undertaking given to the
court on 26.05.2017 in CS(COMM) 370/2017. 11. It is reiterated that the defendants have wholly and identically
incorporated and usurped the most dominant feature of the registered mark
NEWSHOUR and are infringing the trade mark/title/tagline as originating
from the plaintiff. The plaintiff has used various combinations like THE
NEWSHOUR, THE NEWSHOUR DEBATE, NEWSHOUR WITH
ARNAB GOSWAMI, NEWSHOUR WITH ARNAB GOSWAMI 9,
NEWSHOUR WITH ARNAB GOSWAMI 10, etc. 12. It is further pleaded that the plaintiff's tagline/trade mark THE
NATION WANTS TO KNOW has also been copied ad verbum. It is
reiterated that the words NEWSHOUR and NATION WANTS TO KNOW
are well known marks associated with the Times Group considering its
scale, business, reputation and goodwill. It is pleaded that the defendants
have misled and continued to mislead and misguide public at large which
already associates or is most likely to associate the impugned
trademarks/titles/taglines with the plaint iff Company. It stated that the acts
of the defendants also tentamount to passing off on account of confusion and
deception. It is also stated that the acts of the defendants are causing
irreparable injury, damage and prejudice to the plaintiff. 13. I may note that on 23.04.2018, this court while dealing with IA No.
12323/2017 filed under Order I Rule 10 CPC for deletion of defendant No. 1
noted that the name of defendant No. 1 has been changed to defendant No. 3. Learned senior counsel for the defendants also undertook that any order
passed against defendant No. 3 shall be binding on defendant No. 1. Recording the said undertaking, defendant No. 1 was deleted from the array
of parties. 14. Defendant No. 2 has filed his written statement. In the written
statement it is pleaded that viewers of news channels belonging to the
plaintiff and defendant No. 3 are well informed, literate and can never
associate or confuse between the shows or programmes aired on the
respective news channels. The plaintiff's animosity with the defendants is
well known and publicized and hence, there is no question of any passing
off in such circumstances. It is stated that the present proceedings have been
initiated in the form of vendetta litigation and merely in a purported attempt
to harass and arm-twist the defendants. The present suit is devoid of any
merits. 15. It is further stated that the suit is not maintainable and is barred by the
doctrine of Res Sub Judice. The plaintiff on 17.05.2017 had instituted a suit
being CS(COMM) No. 370/2017 alleging infringement of its alleged
intellectual property by defendants No. 2 and 3 and one Ms.Prema Sridevi.
Defendants No. 2 was impleaded as a defendant in the aforesaid suit. The
plaintiff in the said suit alleged infringement of intellectual property but
failed and/or deliberately omitted to sue the claims that have been made in
the present suit even though no new facts have come to light subsequent to
filing of the earlier suit. In the absence of any leave from this court under Order II Rule 2 CPC , the present suit is not maintainable and should be
rejected at the very threshold. The plaintiff, it is pleaded, cannot vex and
harass defendant No. 2 twice in respect of the same matter in issue. The
plaintiff was well aware that the defendants were desirous to use the title CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 8 of 43 NEWSHOUR and other words and tagline as a logo even before filing of the
previous suit CS (COMM) No. 370/2017. 16. The claim of the plaintiff to the proprietary rights in the mark
NEWSHOUR has been denied. It is stated that THE NEWSHOUR
comprises of words which are generic in nature and are widely used by
different news channels and websites in simple and non-distinct
combinations in India and abroad. The word is descriptive in nature and is
widely and commonly perceived as being used by news channels. Reliance
is placed on various widely broadcast items which are watched in the name
and style of NEWSHOUR. The details of such services are given in the
written statement. It is further stated that the registration of the trade mark
THE NEWSHOUR in favour of the plaintiff is not valid since the mark
lacks distinctiveness and the same was wrongly granted in favour of the
plaintiff. The defendants have reserved their rights to challenge the validity
of the registration granted in favour of the plaintiff of the mark THE
NEWSHOUR. 17. On the tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW, it is stated that
defendant No. 2 as a news anchor used the tagline frequently and
consistently in continuation with the past usage. Defendant No. 2 has been
using the tagline till date. The same tagline was used by defendant No. 2
during his tenure with the plaintiff merely as words of common speech. The
words were used as common speech while anchoring the programme and no
other news anchors or journalists who were employed with the plaintiff use
the same as the same was descriptive in nature. The same was neither
scripted nor pre-planned in any manner and the same was used in the form
of extempore speech by defendant No.2. The tagline is synonyms with CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 9 of 43 defendant No. 2. It cannot be conceived as a work over which the plaintiff
can claim proprietary right in any manner. There is no intellectual property
right which enured to the benefits of the plaintiff as words in common
speech cannot be considered as intellectual rights. It is reiterated that the
tagline THE NATION WANTS TO KNOW is synonyms with defendant
No. 2 and the same is evident by a simple search on any popular online
search engines where if the words THE NATION WANTS TO KNOW are
typed, all of them refer to defendant No. 2. The said tagline is specific and
inseparable from defendant No. 2. The tagline has become an integral part of
the image and individuality of defendant No. 2 and is incapable of being
appropriated or imitated by any other person or entity. 18. Defendant No. 2 after leaving the employment of the plaintiff came to
know about the applications filed by the plaintiff for registering the tagline
as words per se and as a device. It is pleaded that the plaintiff in both the
applications alleged the tagline as "proposed to be used". Later on, as an
afterthought the plaintiff sought to amend the said usage stating it to be a
"clerical error". It is pleaded that the plaintiff cannot pre-pone the date of
usage of the tagline by simplicitor filing of a form in the Registry as the
same substantially alters the applications and is impermissible in law. It is
pleaded that filing the applications with the stated usage "proposed to be
use" is an indicative of the fact that the plaintiff had accepted that it had no
intellectual property rights in the said tagline when defendant No. 2 was
employed with the plaintiff. The subsequent volte face of changing the date
of user is misconceived and illegal. It is stated that defendant No. 3 has filed
applications to register the tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW on
27.01.2017. The said application claims user since November 2016. After CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 10 of 43 resignation of defendant No. 2 from the services of the plaintiff in or around
March 2017, defendant No. 2 got the tagline extensively advertised on
various hoardings and boards which were erected to announce the launch of
the new TV channel, namely, Republic TV. Since January 2017, the
defendants have been extensively promoting the tagline to be used through a
device in graphical form more particularly with defendant No.2. 19. Defendant No. 3 has also filed its written statement. It is stated that
the present suit has been instituted as the channel launched by the
defendants within a short span of time has stolen a march over the plaintiff's
channel both in popularity and viewership. It is pleaded that the plaintiff has
not sought any specific relief against defendant No. 2. The contentions and
averments raised by defendant No. 2 in his written statement have been
reiterated by defendant No. 3. 20. I have heard learned counsel for the plaintiff and learned senior
counsel for the defendants. The parties have also filed their written
submissions. 21. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has made the following submissions: Therefore, it is pleaded that an injunction restraining the defendants from
using the trade mark NEWS HOUR per se or in combination with other CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 11 of 43 words ought to be granted in favour of the plaintiff. It is further pleaded that
the plaintiff has been using the trade mark THE NEWS HOUR as the title of
its shows since 2006. (ii) It is pleaded that in March 2017, the plaintiff came across the trade
mark applications for the mark "ARNAB GOSWAMI'S NEWSHOUR",
"ARNAB GOSWAMI'S NEWSHOUR 9", etc. The trade mark applications
were filed by defendant No. 3 for the said trademarks on 20.03.2017 in
Class 38 on a "proposed to be used" basis. It is stated that the trade mark
ARNAB GOSWAMI'S NEWSHOUR contains the whole of the plaintiff's
registered trade mark NEWSHOUR and that it is an established test of
infringement that elements/matter added to a registered trade mark will not
prevent its infringement. It is reiterated that the trade mark "NEWSHOUR"
being a registered trade mark, in view of Sections 28 and 29 of the Trade
Marks Act, it would follow that the defendants cannot use the said trade
mark. The plaintiff relies upon the judgments of the Supreme Court in the
case of Kavi Raj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma vs. N.P. Laboratories, AIR
1965 SC 980 and the judgment of a Coordinate Bench of this court in the
case of Procter & Gamble Co. Vs. Joy Creators & ors., 2011( 45) PTC 541
(Del.) (iii) It is further pleaded that the plaintiff's trade mark/tagline NATION
WANTS TO KNOW (hereinafter referred to as NWTK) is based on
distinctiveness, goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff on account of its use
since 2006 for goods/services in relation to television broadcast. It is
pleaded that defendant No.2 in its written statement admits that NWTK
mark has acquired immense goodwill and reputation. The claim of the
defendants is that the said goodwill and reputation is associated with him CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 12 of 43 and not the plaintiff. It is pleaded that this contention is misconceived.
Defendant No. 2 was only an anchor while the entire show was a team work
involving a team of editors, researchers, production control team, creative
team and script writers. In fact in the programmes, the anchors'
dialogues/comments are based on a script and promps are provided by the
team working behind the camera through a teleprompter and an ear phone
which is placed in the anchor's ear. Defendant No. 2 cannot claim credit for
the said mark/tagline. (iv) It is pleaded that there is likelihood of confusion and deception, if the
defendants are permitted to use the tagline/trademark NWTK. It is pleaded
that the defendants admit that NWTK mark is being used as a tagline. It is
pleaded that the tagline is also a mark. Reliance is placed on the judgment of
this court in the case of Procter & Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co.
Ltd. vs. Anchor Health & Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd. , 2014 (59) PTC 421
(Del.)(DB). (v) It is further pleaded that as per the employment contract signed
between defendant No. 2 and the plaintiff all intellectual property created,
developed and used by defendant No. 2 in or on the channel including in
relation to such programme exclusively belongs to the plaintiff.
Accordingly, all intellectual property rights, goodwill and reputation in the
trade mark/title/tagline in the NEWSHOUR and the NWTK belong to the
plaintiff and the defendants cannot claim any right over it. Reliance is placed
on clause 5 of employment agreement dated 31.05.2004 and clause 4 of the
employment agreement dated 31.03.2005. (vi) It is pleaded that the defendants plea that the trade mark/title
NEWSHOUR and the tagline NWTK are generic and descriptive in nature is CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 13 of 43 a misplaced plea. It is pleaded that the trade mark/title/tagline have acquired
a high degree of distinctiveness and secondary meaning on account of their
long and continuous usage, aggressive promotion and marketing on various
media and enormous goodwill and reputation acquired by the plaintiff. It is
also pleaded that the tagline/trade mark NWTK does not indicate the kind,
quality or characteristics of the services it is used for i.e. television broadcast
and therefore, it cannot be said to be descriptive. Reliance is again placed on
the judgment of the Division Bench of this court in the case of Procter &
Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. vs. Anchor Health & Beauty
Care Pvt. Ltd. , (supra). (vii) It is further pleaded that the defendants cannot be permitted to
approbate and reprobate. The defendants themselves have claimed
proprietary rights in the subject trade mark/title/tagline NEWSHOUR and
NWTK by filing trade mark applications. The defendants cannot be
permitted to approbate and reprobate before the courts of law. They are
precluded from alleging that the subject marks are generic or descriptive. (viii) Regarding the plea of the defendants that that this suit is barred on
account of the doctrine of Res Sub Judice, it has been pleaded that the
previous suit being CS(COMM) 370/2017 is a suit for breach of the contract
of employment as the defendants during employment of the plaintiff had
taken away stories/material in the form of audio conversations/recordings
without knowledge and consent of the plaintiff and was dishonestly
converting it for his own use on the channel "The Republic TV". The
present suit in contrast is a suit for infringement of trade mark/passing
off/dilution/blurring, etc. Therefore, the subject matter of the present suit is
different from the previous suit. Further, the cause of action for filing of the CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 14 of 43 previous suit as well as the present suit are on different footings. It is
reiterated that in the earlier suit, defendant No. 2 had made a statement that
he has no intentions of violating the employment agreement. It is pleaded
that defendant No. 2 has breached the said undertaking given to the court. 22. Learned senior counsel for the defendants has pleaded as follows:- (ii) It is further pleaded that the viewers of the plaintiff's and the
defendants' news channels are well informed and literate persons and can
never confuse between the shows aired on the respective channels of the
plaintiff and defendants. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Division
Bench of this court in the case of Cadila Healthcare Limited v. Gujarat Co- operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd., ILR (2010) II Delhi 85. (iii) It is also pleaded that THE NEWSHOUR mark comprises of generic
words and is widely used by news channels and websites in India and
abroad. It has been urged that NEWSHOUR is descriptive in the news
industry being a common term and its likening to news is unmistakable.
There is nothing inherent in it. It is alleged that everybody uses the said
mark NEWSHOUR. Reliance is placed on Section 9 and 11 of the Trade CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 15 of 43 Marks Act . Learned senior counsel relied upon various examples pertaining
to use of the mark "THE NEWSHOUR". It is also pleaded that BBC also
uses NEWSHOUR. Hence, there cannot be any passing off of the mark
NEWSHOUR. (iv) It is further stated that the defendants' mark with addition of prefixes
or suffixes with NEWSHOUR is not deceptively similar to the alleged
registered mark of the plaintiff. The plaintiff's mark lacks distinctiveness
and has been wrongly registered. Liberty is sought to challenge the said
registered mark in the written statement filed. The defendants seek to use
the combination of NEWSHOUR-Arnab Goswami's Newshour, Arnab
Goswami's Newshour 9, Arnab Goswami's Newshour 10, Arnab
Goswami's Newshour Sunday, etc. (v) It is pleaded that the expression NWTK and the tagline is not
registered in favour of the plaintiff. The relief against alleged infringement
is hence not sustainable. Claim for passing off is also untenable as there is
no misrepresentation by the defendants to its viewers which is calculated to
injure the plaintiff's business/goodwill and no damage has been caused to
the plaintiff. (vi) It is further stated that the tagline NWTK has become synonyms and
exclusive to defendant No. 2 due to it standalone and past usage. It was a
distinctive tool of news dispensation used by defendant No. 2. The tagline is
an integral part of defendant No.2's image and inseparable from his
individuality. The said tagline was never associated with the plaintiff. It was
associated with defendant No. 2 and its personality. It has been pointed out
that if one were to do a search on google search, yahoo search, facebook or
twitter, the tagline NWTK is referred only to defendant No. 2. Reliance is CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 16 of 43 also placed on a book written by Mr.Rajdeep Sardesai titled as "2014 The
Election that changed India' which refers to Arnab's NWTK. It is reiterated
that the plaintiff has not filed any material to show that it has acquired
goodwill or reputation in relation to the tagline. There is nothing on record
which would even remotely suggest that people associate the tagline with
the plaintiff. (vii) It is further pleaded that the use of the tagline by defendant No.2 was
never pre-planned/scripted. It was used as words of common speech for
which there is no intellectual property rights which enured to the plaintiff. It
is a spontaneous and creative expression coined by defendant No.2. It is
reiterated that the tagline NWTK is not a trade mark and only a part of the
speech. Reliance is placed on Section 2(1)(z)(b) of the Trade Marks Act to
state this NWTK is not a trade mark. (viii) It is further stated that defendant No. 2 after resigning from the
plaintiff's employment on 18.11.2016 filed the trade mark applications on
27.01.2017 seeking registration of the tagline as a device wherein usage was
claimed from November 2016. Defendant No. 2 decided to nurture the said
tagline by advertising it on hoardings and filing above applications and
commencing a show in its name on 24.06.2017. (ix) It is also pointed out that the plaintiff filed a trade mark application on
17.12.2016 for the usage of NWTK on a "proposed to be used" basis. It is
clear that the plaintiff accepted that there were no intellectual property rights
which subsisted in the tagline. Later on, the applications were amended by
changing the date of usage to 31.01.2006 as an afterthought to better its
claim. It is stated that there is nothing on record to show that the plaintiff
was using the tagline since 31.01.2006. The amendment to the application CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 17 of 43 seeking change of date of user is illegal and hit by Rule 37 of the Trade
Marks Rules 2017. (x) It is further pleaded that none of the documents adduced by the
plaint iff ind icate a connection to any goods or services/plaintiff's news
channel. The phrase was used only to pose questions during interviews or
while presenting news. (xi) It is further pleaded that the tagline NWTK and the mark NEWHOUR
are not governed by the employment contract between the plaintiff and
defendant No. 2. These are not trademarks to which the plaintiff has any
right. 23. I may first deal with the preliminary objection raised by the
defendants that the present suit is barred by the principle of Res Sub Judice.
This plea has been taken stating that the matter in the present suit is directly
and substantially in issue in the previous suit filed by the plaintiff being CS
(COMM) 370/2017. 24. I may have a look at the earlier suit filed by the plaintiff. The earlier
suit being CS(COMM) 370/2017 has been filed as a suit for permanent and
mandatory injunction. The reliefs prayed in the said suit are as follows:- 25. The present suit is filed seeking the following reliefs:- 26. What clearly follows is that the earlier suit being CS(COMM)
370/2017 is filed by the plaintiff seeking the relief of injunction to restrain
the defendants from using the intellectual properties of the plaintiff. The
grievance was that defendant No. 2 herein and other defendants have
wilfully and deliberately converted for their own use and for airing on
Republic TV, the intellectual property of the plaintiff channel. In contrast, as
is apparent from the prayer clause of the present suit, the present suit is filed
to restrain the defendants from infringing the registered trade mark of the
plaintiff 'NEWS HOUR and to restrain the defendants from using the
mark/title/tagline 'NATION WANTS TO KNOW' in a manner which
tentamounts to passing off of the defendants business /services as those of CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 20 of 43 the plaintiff. 27. Order 2 Rule 2 CPC reads as follow:- 28. Hence, a plaintiff is bound to include the whole of the claim which he
is entitled to make in respect of the "cause of action". Where a plaintiff
omits to sue in respect of any portion of his claim, he shall not claim
thereafter for the portion so omitted and relinquished. 29. What is a cause of action? The Supreme Court in the judgment which
was cited by the defendants i.e. Virgo. Industries (Eng.) P. Ltd. vs.
Venturetech Solutions P. Ltd. , 2013 (1) SCC 625 defined a "cause of
action" as follows:- 30. A cause of action includes every fact which is material to be proved to
entitle the plaintiff to succeed. 31. As noted above, prima facie the earlier suit filed is based on the cause
of action of infringement of intellectual property right whereas the present
suit is based on infringement of trade mark and seeking appropriate relief
pertaining to passing off of the trademark/tagline NATION WANTS TO
KNOW. The facts that the plaintiff has to prove for relief in the first suit are
prima facie different from the facts that are to be proved in the second suit.
Prima facie, it is not possible to conclude that the present suit is barred by
the principle of Res Sub Judice. 32. I will now deal with the first relief sought by the plaintiff, namely, an
interim injunction to restrain the defendants from adopting or using the trade
mark/title 'NEWS HOUR'. The plaintiff states that the programme 'THE
NEWS HOUR' which pertains to discussions, panel discussions, debates on
current topics was launched in 2006. It is a registered trade mark and has
been in continuous use since 2006. The said trade mark has been registered
under Classes 16, 35, 38 and 41 on 15.05.2014 with user claimed since
31.01.2006. Hence, as per the plaintiff being the proprietor of the trade mark
NEWS HOUR it has a statutory right to exclusive use thereof in India. 33. The defendants, it is pleaded by the plaintiff, have filed the trade mark
application for registration of the mark ARNAB GOSWAMI'S NEWS
HOUR, ARNAB GOSWAMI'S NEW HOUR SUNDAY, etc. It is stated
that the application to register the mark NEWS HOUR with its prefixes and
suffixes has been made on a proposed to be used basis. It is claimed by the
plaintiff that the defendants have sought to incorporate and usurp the most
dominating feature of the registered mark of the plaintiff NEWSHOUR and
are using various combinations like THE NEWSHOUR, THE NEWSHOUR
DEBATE, NEWSHOUR WITH ARNAB GOSWAMI, NEWSHOUR
WITH ARNAB GOSWAMI 9, etc. It is pleaded that the said acts of the
defendants tentamount to infringement of the trade mark of the plaintiff.
They also amount to passing off of the said trademarks on account of the
confusion and deception. 34. In contrast the defendants plead that the mark NEWS HOUR is a
generic word and is widely used by different news channels and websites in
India and abroad. It is pleaded that NEWS HOUR is descriptive in the news
industry being a common term. Reliance is placed on Sections 9 and 11 of CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 23 of 43 the Trade Marks Act, 1999 to plead that it is a descriptive word and does not
deserve any protection from this court. The defendants have relied upon the
judgment of this court in the case of Cadila Healthcare Limited v. Gujarat
Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. (supra). 35. The undisputed facts show that the mark NEWS HOUR is a registered
trade mark prima facie used by the plaintiff since 2006. 36. I may first deal with the plea of the defendants that the said mark is
generic and is widely used by news channels and websites in India and
abroad. 37. The defendants have relied on the judgment of the Division Bench of
this court in the case of Cadila Healthcare Limited v. Gujarat Co-operative
Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. , (supra). That was a case where the
plaintiff had filed a suit for injunction to restrain the defendants from using
the trade mark 'Sugar Free'. On the facts, the Division Bench of this court
had held as follows:- 38. Hence, it was in those facts of the case regarding an action for passing
off that the court came to a conclusion that the word 'Sugar Free' only
describes the characteristics of the product and the mark is not inherently
distinctive and is clearly descriptive and cannot afford it protection as is
sought. The said judgment was on the facts of the case and does not help the
case of the defendants. 39. I may look at some of the other judgments also in this regard.
Reference may be had to a judgment of this court in the case of Living
Media India Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Alpha Dealcom Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. , (2016) 227
DLT 681. That was a case in which the plaintiff was the publisher and
owner of the news magazine 'India Today'. The defendant's impugned mark
was 'National Today'. The plaintiff's trade mark 'India Today' was a
registered mark. The court held as follows:- The burden of establishing that what are descriptive of the
 commercial activity and can be protected particularly when the
 plaintiff is not directly using it in the same field, but using it in
 combination with another or other words is heavy, as expressed
 in My Kinda Town Ltd. v. Soll [1983 RPC 407. A similar
 reasoning was adopted in British Diabetic Assn. v. Diabetic
 Society Ltd.(1995) 4 All ER 812. Earlier, in Office Cleaning
 Services Ltd. v. Westminster Window & General Cleaners
 Ltd.(1946) 63 RPC 39 it was held that: '...the Courts will not
 readily assume that the use by a trader as part of his trade name
 of descriptive words already used by another trader as part of
 his trade name is likely to cause confusion and will easily
 accept small differences as adequate to avoid it. It is otherwise
 where a fancy word has been chosen as part of the name.'] (the
 Chicago Pizza case): Holding that the words LEISURE NEWS were incapable of
 protection given the fact that the activity was newly launched,
 it was held in Marcus Publishing Plc. v. Hutton-Wild
 Communications Ltd. [1990 RPC 576. Also in Baywatch
 Production Co. Inc. v. Home Video Channel1997 FSR 22
 injunction was refused to the plaintiff, producer of the series
 Baywatch, even though the defendant was using the title
 "Babewatch" for its serial, having regard to all the surrounding
 circumstances.] that: 40. The court in the facts of the case took the view that the rights of the
plaintiff do not crystallise into a right to prevent others from using a
common word 'TODAY' in respect of news channel services. 41. Reference may also be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
the case of Skyline Education Institute (India) Pvt. Ltd. vs. S.L. Vaswani &
Anr. , 2010 (2) SCC 142. In that case, the respondents were running an
educational institute with the name 'Skyline Institute of Engineering and
Technology'. The appellant objected to the use of the word 'Skyline' on the
ground that they were already using this word and had already applied for its
registration as a trade mark. The appellant institute was not a recognised
institute. The Supreme Court held as follows:- 42. Reference in this context may also be had to the judgment of a
Coordinate Bench of this court in the case of Bling Telecom Pvt. Ltd. vs.
Micromax Informatics Ltd., MANU/DE/3301/2010 . That was a case in
which the plaintiff had filed a suit to restrain the defendants from using
BLING as a trade mark or corporate name wherein this court held as
follows:- (2) demonstration, that the use (trademark use by defendant)
 will lead the public to believe that the goods or services offered
 by him are goods and services of the plaintiff; and

 (3) that he suffers or is likely to suffer damage by reason of the
 erroneous belief engendered by the defendant's
 misrepresentation that the source of his (the defendant's) goods
 or services is the same as the source of those offered by the
 plaintiff." 43. It was noted that the test in such cases is always subjective to every
case. Usually exclusive use of a common word would not be given.
However, protection of a combination of words can be given. 44. The controversy in question as raised by the defendants gets settled by
the judgment of the Division Bench of this court in the case of Procter &
Gamble Manufacturing (Tianjin) Co. Ltd. vs. Anchor Health & Beauty
Care Pvt. Ltd. ,(supra). That was a case in which the respondent/plaintiff had
sought an injunction to restrain the appellant/defendant during the pendency
of the suit from using the trade mark 'All Round Protection' / 'All Rounder'
or any other mark deceptively similar to the same. The respondent/plaintiff
had applied for registration of the trade mark 'All Round' which was
granted under the Trade Marks Act . The appellant/defendant took a strong
plea that the trade mark 'All Round' is inherently an invalid trade mark
being completely a descriptive expression and incapable of having
characteristics of a trade mark. It is not capable of distinguishing goods of CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 31 of 43 one person from those of another and could not have been registered in view
of the embargo contained in Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act. The Division
Bench of this court repelled the above plea of the appellant/defendant
holding as follows:- ......" 45. I may also note that an SLP filed against the aforesaid judgment of the
Division Bench was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 03.02.2014. The
aforesaid judgment, in my opinion, squarely applies to the facts of this case.
The pleas of the defendants that the trade mark NEWS HOUR is descriptive
and incapable of being registered are pleas which did not find favour when
the plaintiff had applied for registration of the trade mark. There were no
objections received on the ground of applicability of Section 9 of the Act.
The marks were not prima facie considered by the authorities having
expertise in the matter as being descriptive of the goods, etc. or incapable of
distinguishing the goods or services of one from another. 46. I also cannot help noticing that a plea has been raised by the
defendants that they propose to challenge the registration of the said trade
mark by the Registry. No such challenge appears to have been made so far.
Clearly, there is prima facie no merit in the plea of the defendants that the
mark in question is generic and incapable of being protected as a trade mark. 47. Another plea that was raised by the defendants was that the
defendants' mark is with addition of prefixes and suffixes with NEWS
HOUR and cannot be said to be deceptively similar to the alleged mark of
the plaintiff. The defendants seek to use combination of NEWS HOUR as
ARNAB GOSWAMI's NEWSHOUR, ARNAB GOSWAMI's
NEWSHOUR 9, ARNAB GOSWAMI's NEWSHOUR 10, ARNAB
GOSWAMI's NEWSHOUR SUNDAY, etc. In this context reference may
be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Kaviraj Pandit
Durga Dutt Sharma vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories , (supra)
where the Supreme Court held as follows:- 48. Reference may also be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
the case of Ruston & Hornsby Ltd. Vs. Zamindara Engineering Co. , AIR
1970 SC 1649 where the Court held as follows:- 49. What follows from the above judgments is that if the defendants'
trade mark is deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff, mere addition of a
word by the defendants to the trade mark is of no consequence and the
plaintiff is entitled to succeed in its action for infringement of its trade mark. 50. In the facts of this case, in my view, merely adding some prefixes or
suffixes to the trade mark NEWS HOUR, in my opinion does not help the
defendants to claim that the mark which is being used by the defendants is
not deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff. 51. The marks which are being used by the defendants, namely, ARNAB
GOSWAMI's NEWSHOUR, ARNAB GOSWAMI's NEWSHOUR 9, etc.
prima facie would be deceptively similar to the mark of the plaintiff THE
NEWS HOUR. The plaintiff is entitled to relief on this account. 52. I will now deal with the second relief sought in the present
application, namely, to restrain the defendants from adopting the trade
mark/title/tagline 'NATION WANTS TO KNOW'. It is the case of the
plaintiff that the trade mark/tagline 'NATION WANTS TO KNOW'
(NWTK) is based on distinctiveness, goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff
on account of its use since 2006 for goods/services in relation to television
broadcast. It is pleaded that in case the defendants are permitted to use the
trade mark/tagline NWTK, it would create confusion and deception. It is
further the case of the plaintiff that as per the employment contract signed
between the plaintiff and defendant No2, all intellectual property created,
developed and used by defendant No. 2 in or on the channel including in
relation to the programme exclusively belongs to the plaintiff. It is stated
that defendant No. 2 cannot claim any right on NWTK. 53. On the other hand, the defendants plead that NWTK is not a
registered tagline or mark of the plaintiff. Hence, the plaintiff has to, at best,
make out a case for passing off. It is pleaded that the plaintiff has failed to
show any goodwill in the stated tagline/mark NWTK. It is further stated that
there is no misrepresentation by the defendants to its viewers which is
calculated to injure the plaintiff's business or goodwill. No case for passing
off is hence made out. Further, the viewers of the plaintiff and the defendant
news channels are well informed and literate persons and can never get
confused between shows aired by the respective channels of the plaintiff
and the defendants. It is further pleaded that NWTK was a distinctive tool of news
dispensation used by defendant No. 2. It is a word of common speech and
was not used as a tagline. It is also stated that the said phrase has no connection to any
goods/services/plaintiff's news channel. The phrase was used only to pose
questions during interviews. NWTK has never been associated with the plaintiff. It is associated
with defendant No. 2 and his personality. 54. Reference in this context may be had to the judgment of the Supreme
Court in the case of Cadila Health Care Ltd. vs. Cadila Pharmaceuticals
Ltd. , 2001 (5) SCC 73. That was a case in which the appellant had filed a
suit seeking injunction against the respondent from using the trade mark
'Falcitab' as it was claimed that the same would be passed off as the
appellant's drug 'Falcigo' for treatment of the same disease. The Supreme
Court held as follows:- Hence, the court concluded that a passing off action depends upon the
principle that nobody has a right to represent his goods as goods of
somebody else. The court noted five elements of passing off, namely, (i)
misrepresentations, (ii) to prospective customers, (iii) made by a trader, (iv)
which are calculated to injure the business and goodwill of another trader CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 38 of 43 and (v) which causes actual damage to the business or goodwill of the trader
by whom the action is brought. 55. I may also reiterate the observations of the Supreme Court in the case
of Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
Laboratories (supra), as noted above where the Supreme Court had noted
that passing off is a common law remedy being in substance an action for
deceit i.e. that is a passing off by a person of his own goods as those of
another. 56. Hence, the issue that arises is that do the defendants by use of the
mark/tagline NWTK seek to misrepresent to prospective customers of news
channels which misrepresentation would cause damage to the business and
goodwill of the plaintiff. Both the sides have filed large number of
documents relying upon various print outs and screenshots, etc. of facebook,
twitter and of various search engines like google to plead that the
tagline/trade mark NWTK is associated with the respective parties only. 57. The plaintiff claims that it has been using the tagline/trade mark
NWTK since 2006 for goods/services in relation to television broadcast. It
has acquired goodwill and reputation due to the time effort, financial and
human resources expanded by the plaintiff. Reliance is placed on various
documents to support its aforesaid contention of user since 2006. The
plaintiff has filed print outs of screenshots of facebook from 20013 to 2017,
screenshots from various online platforms including twitter, facebook and
youtube claiming use of NWTK. Reliance is also placed on some news
reports/articles allegedly showing goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff on
the trade mark NWTK. Based on these documents, it is urged that the
plaintiff has a strong reputation and goodwill for the tagline NWTK in news CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 39 of 43 dispensation/news channel to warrant an interim order in favour of the
plaintiff. In my opinion both sides seek to reply on screen shots from various
search engines. The screen shots/other documents placed on record require a
more detailed examination which can only be done after parties have led
evidence. 58. There is another reason as to why, in my opinion, the above
documents require a detailed examination after evidence is lead by the
parties. The plaintiff has applied for registration of the said tagline NWTK
in Class 38 and 41 on 17.12.2016. The application when it was filed was
filed on "proposed to be used" basis. Hence, it was the own case of the
plaintiff at the time of the filing of the application for registration of the said
tagline that the plaintiff is yet to commence user of the same as a trade mark.
No doubt, the plaintiff has later on filed an amendment application claiming
that the said user stated in the original application was on account of
inadvertence and oversight. The plaintiff now claims user since 31.01.2006.
The defendants have strongly relied upon the original application to claim
that it was the own case of the plaintiff that the said tagline NWTK is
"proposed to be used" in 2016 and there was no prior user. They have
objected to the amendment application filed by the plaintiff. In my opinion,
for the purpose of deciding the present application, the conduct of the
plaintiff in filing the application in the Trade Mark Registry stating the user
as "proposed to be used" has relevance. These are issues which would have
to be gone into after the parties have led their evidence. The date of user of
the tagline NWTK can only be decided appropriately after the parties have
led their evidence. Based on these documents/screen shots of twitter and
other posts, etc., a prima facie case is not made out CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 40 of 43 In these facts and circumstances, prima facie it is not possible, at this
stage without leading of evidence, to come to a conclusion that the
defendants seek to mislead the consumers of the news channel or that the
action of the defendants in using the said tagline would cause damage to the
plaintiff as claimed 59. Another plea strongly urged by the plaintiff relying upon the
employment agreements is that the said trademarks/tagline is the proprietary
right of the plaintiff. Reliance is placed on Clause 5 of the employment
agreement dated 31.05.2004 and Clause 4 of the employment agreement
dated 31.03.2005 which state that all intellectual property rights relating to
the work done or created by defendant No.2, etc in the course of the contract
with the plaintiff company shall solely and exclusively belong to the
Company i.e. the plaintiff. Clause 4 of the agreement dated 31.03.2005 read
as follows:- 60. The defendants have however denied the stand of the plaintiff. It has
been stated that the tagline was never pre-planned/scripted. It was used as a
word of common speech for which there is no intellectual property which CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 41 of 43 enures to the plaintiff. It has been denied that it was the result of any
significant creative effort with respect to the formatting of the plaintiff's
show. 61. Whether NWTK was used as a trade mark, as claimed by the plaintiff
is an aspect that is appropriately to be gone into after evidence is completed
between the parties. 62. A plea strongly urged by the defendants is that the tagline in question
was used as a common speech for which there is no intellectual property
which enures to the plaintiff. It was spontaneous and creative expression
used by defendant No. 2 which was not used as a trade mark. It has also
been pleaded by the defendants that none of the documents adduced by the
plaintiff indicate a connection of the mark NWTK to any goods or services
or to the plaintiff's news channel. 63. I may note that learned counsel for the plaintiff on the last date of
hearing on 01.10.2020 had clarified that they have no objection in case
defendant No. 2 were to use the said phrase NWTK in the course of speech
or presentation of a programme. The grievance of the plaintiff is the fact that
the defendants have also applied for registration of the same as a
tagline/trademark with the Trade Mark Registry which is not permissible. It
was also stated by the learned counsel for the plaintiff that the application of
the defendants for the registration of the said tagline with the Trade Mark
Registry has been rejected. 64. In my opinion, it is only after evidence has been led that it can be
ascertained as to whether the plaintiff was using the aforesaid mark as a
trade mark or it was merely being used as a form of speech in the course of
conducting the news channel or in the course of carrying on CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 42 of 43 interviews/presentations by defendant No. 2. These are aspects on which,
prima facie, no view can be made at this stage based on the documents
placed on record, namely, screen shots of various sites of Twitter, Facebook,
etc. 65. In view of the above, I partly allow the present application. An
interim injunction is passed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
defendants retraining them from using the trade mark 'NEWS HOUR' or
any other mark which is deceptively similar to the trade mark 'NEWS
HOUR' of the plaintiff. 66. Regarding the tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW, no interim
order is passed at this stage in favour of the plaintiff. As submitted by the
learned counsel for the plaintiff, defendant No. 2 is free to use the same as
part of his speech/presentation of any news channel, etc. However, if the
defendants choose to use the same as a trade mark with respect to any of
their goods/services, the said defendants will maintain accounts for such
usage. Such accounts shall be filed in court regularly on an affidavit of one
of the directors of defendant No. 3 once in every six months. 67. The application is disposed of with the above directions. JAYANT NATH, J

OCTOBER 23, 2020
rb CS(COMM) 434/2017 Page 43 of 43