SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A chilling experience that may want you to take your data more seriously
DATE: 2024-07-07
SCORE: 642
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1dxf3ox/a_chilling_experience_that_may_want_you_to_take/

--- POST TEXT ---

(This is going to be a long post, please bear with me. TLDR: PLEASE TAKE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION VERY SERIOUSLY)

 
Being into infosec ever since college, ive always valued personal data safety. Ive often run into debates with friends and family members including my dad with the most common excuse "What have i got to hide?". My brother, a sucker for discounts would whore his number off for even 10 rupees. And i totally get it. The thrill of discount rather than saving money tends to get the better of our morals at times. 

 
But recently my family went through a chilling experience that made me think a lot about data leaks, and safety of personal information. Last week, I was at work, when my mom got a call, saying my brother has been arrested for getting caught with a girl in a hotel. Yeah, yeah a very common scam. Right? My mom suspected the same. She asked for more information. The scammers knew everything about him. Even the fact that he has come to bangalore at the moment although he studies somewhere else. They said they had his aadhar and sent a picture of the aadhar card to verify. Each and every detail was pitch perfect. There was background noise of someone getting beaten and repeatedly saying sorry.

Now my mom was scared. She called my dad and my dad called me. I still feel shitty about it but i was in a meeting and mistaking it to be usualy daily call from home, i didnt pick up. 

Thankfully my meeting was just about to end, so i immediately called back, and turns out, the cop was asking for a bribe of 50K saying any delay and they would file a FIR. My mom was about to pay when i called her back. A minute late and we'd have lost 50k to a scam. Just by hearing the premise of her call with the policeman, i knew it was a scam. I asked her to ignore, reported the number. The guys said, if you cant pay, just pay 5k or 2k and he would let go of my brother.

The scam and the scary incident aside, this is only possible because the scammers have his details. And likewise imagine the number of people getting scammed on a daily basis just because they gave their number for a mere 10% discount. 

I dont mean to be a fearmonger here but every time you read news of data leak and think 'kya hi hoga', remember your data can be used in ways you'd never even think in your wildest of dreams. Im pretty sure theres no way to completely avoid it, but please think twice before giving out your aadhar or phone numbers. The companies you give them to may sell them to marketting and you may lose some bucks to markeeters but somewhere in the pipeline, the data can get leaked and you're in jeopardy now. 

Thanks for the read.