1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 02.04.2023 seeking information on the
following points: 2. The CPIO vide letter dated 26.04.2023 denying the information under Section
8(1)(j) of RTI Act, 2005. 3. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 11.05.2023. The FAA vide order dated 26.05.2023 upheld the reply given
by the CPIO. 4. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 09.08.2023. 5. The Appellant was present during the hearing through video conference and on
behalf of the Respondent, Nitin Jaiswal, Law Officer & Rep. of CPIO attended the hearing
through video conference. 6. The Commission opined at the outset that the information sought for in the RTI
Application lacks clarity or comprehension and therefore the denial of the information by
the CPIO is also not appreciated in the absence of any justification or explanation for the
invocation of Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act. 7. The Appellant vaguely stated the factual background of the information sought for
in the RTI Application to state that since some bank officials have leaked personal data
from his averred account number, the details of such officers were sought for in the RTI
Application. Per contra, the Respondent submitted that although the denial was
communicated as per Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act to protect the personal information of
third-party bank officials, however, as a matter of fact the record as desired by the
Appellant is not even maintained by the bank. 8. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing
both parties and perusal of records, observes that the vague and speculative nature of the
information sought for in the RTI Application does not warrant any scope of relief to be
ordered in the matter. However, the Commission records adverse observations for the
failure of the CPIO to inform the Appellant about the non-maintainability of any such
record at the original instance itself as the invocation of an exemption of Section 8 of the
RTI Act for such a record which is not even maintained renders the original reply of the Page 2 of 3 CPIO as misleading. The CPIO is therefore warned to ensure exercise of due diligence
while replying to the RTI Applications in the future and avoid recurrence of such lapses
as evinced above. 9. The Appeal is disposed of accordingly. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Anandi Ramalingam) (आनंदी रामिलंगम)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 िदनांक/Date: 30.12.2024

Authenticated true copy

Col S S Chhikara (Retd) कनल एस एस िछकारा, ( रटायड)
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: