Equifax, the credit consumer reporting agency, will have to pay at least $650 million to resolve most claims stemming from the 2017 data breach that exposed the personal data of more than 147 million consumers, the New York Times reported . A federal judge in Atlanta approved the settlement on July 22. This is the largest data breach settlement thus far, surpassing the $148 million penalty Uber agreed to last year, BBC reported .

The settlement is the result of investigations by two US federal agencies, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Federal Trade Commission , and 48 state attorney generals. Massachusetts and Indiana sued the company separately; their suits haven’t been resolved yet.

The company had set aside $690 million last quarter to cover the potential costs. The current settlement figure of $650 million is roughly what the company earns in sales in a quarter. In 2018, the company earned $300 million on sales of $3.4 biliion.

However, it is not clear who will be approved for compensation because their identities were stolen.

According to settlement documents ,

Information for consumers will be posted at equifaxbreachsettlement.com , set up by the group that will handle claims.

Equifax is one of the three largest credit bureaus in the US. Experian and TransUnion are the two others. In July 2017, Equifax discovered that attackers had been stealing information from company servers for 76 days. The company disclosed the breach after more than a month of discovery.

The FTC said that Equifax had been warned in March 2017 that one of its databases suffered from a critical vulnerability, BBC reported . The company failed to get the vulnerability patched and as a result, multiple hackers were able to exploit the flaw and steal consumers’ personal details.

The stock price of the company tumbled after the breach, but it has since recovered most losses.

The hackers reportedly copied:

It has been difficult to quantify the harm caused by the breach to consumers because cybersecurity experts have not seen the stolen data surface in online marketplaces where such stolen information is trafficked.

The UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office had already fined Equifax £500,000 for failing to protect the personal information of up to 15 million British citizens during the same attack.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event