The Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) issued draft guidelines for the prevention of spam calls and messages on June 20. These guidelines, called “Prevention and Regulation of Unsolicited and Unwarranted Business Communication, 2024”, are meant to protect consumers from “unfair trade practices and violation of their consumer rights” through unsolicited business communications in the form of voice calls, SMS, and instant messaging apps, including social media platforms.

The guidelines define “unsolicited and unwarranted business communications” as any communication for the sale or promotion of goods and services that is neither as per the consent nor as per the registered preference(s) of the recipient. A person/company would be considered engaging in unsolicited and unwarranted business communication—

Besides the first two kinds of violations, the rest apply to all spam/scam calls and messages made through either telecom resources or social media platforms and apps. Comments on these guidelines can be submitted by July 21, 2024.

In February this year, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs held a meeting with TRAI, the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), and telecom companies, which resulted in the formation of a committee to draft these guidelines.

Previously, TRAI has taken steps to curb spam calls and messages through multiple different measures. In 2023, the regulator mandated the use of artificial intelligence (AI) spam filters for calls and SMSs. It also directed telecom companies to deploy AI and Machine Learning (ML) based UCC_Detect system (unsolicited commercial communication, i.e. spam detection system).

Spam regulation has also been made a part of the Telecommunication Act, 2023. The act gives the government powers to issue rules for the preparation and maintenance of do-not-disturb (DND) registers (one or more) to ensure that users do not receive spam messages without their prior consent. The government can also formulate a mechanism for users to report malware or any messages that don’t obtain their consent.

So let’s say a fintech company hires a telemarketer to make calls/send messages on their behalf. Then the guidelines would apply both to the fintech and the telemarketer. Alternatively, if the same fintech company hires a telemarketer to make calls/send messages on behalf of a bank, the guidelines would apply to all three.

The provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 2019 will apply to anyone who violates these guidelines. In case of any ambiguity or dispute in the interpretation of the guidelines, the decision of the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) will be final.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event