SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My Ex's current continuously harassing me and threatening to expose my private videos to my family [help]
DATE: 2024-09-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1f7gxdu/my_exs_current_continuously_harassing_me_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

So basically my ex n i are from different religion n she wanted to get married in her caste (i proposed, she wasn't sure) so she started dating this guy n started to cheat on me multiple times. I caught her but she wouldn't let go of me or him, every time she said i matter a lot hence she won't do it the next time. Fast forward, we broke up after 3-4 times of cheating and her current found our chats and got to know she was involved with me while she was dating him so he tried to end things but my ex is a manipulative B, she somehow convinced the guy that i used to blackmail her for sex (i didn't, i loved her n so does she,n i have xhat proof she cheated on n apologized to me)

After that, her current calls me now n then n threatens me n abuses me that what kind of person i am etc etc n it's been 4+months. I've blocked him from everywhere yet to does woth new number n new account everytime. And last time i abused n insulted him back.

Fast forward, 3 days ago my ex created a new account n pinged me that i have shared some info with her guy n he found out everything(i didn't), i blocked her without thinking twice. Then our common friend calls me n mentioned that my ex had intimate videos of us that her current found out n told this to her parents n now he is threatening that he'll do that to me. 

I mean, was cheated on, robbed of mental n physical health, robbed of job due to little focus, abused verbally n physically,Snatched of love, exposed of my secrets onlinea nd now whatever the little thing remain that i call respect is now being threatened? What kind of selfish monster of a person does this to someone whom they loved once? I had a stroke once while i was processing the breakup n I'm really hoping i process this much better than i did last time.

 And that insecure abusive bastard, there's a good chance he is reading this.. I'll prolly ruin his career with the screenshots of threats, abuses, threatening to leak my videos. Enough is enough this time. 

Please suggest anything or help!! All i could think about is a police complaint but if i take that path my family will get to know, what else can i do?