1. These three appeals are against Order-in-Original No. S-8/1/90-MEPZ/1306, dated 5-10-1990 passed by Collector of Customs wherein 6,021 sets of Cotton knitted to shape sweater panels have been confiscated and allowed redemption on payment of fine of Rs. 1,25,000/- penalty of Rs. 3,00,000/- has been totally imposed on the appellants; 16,472.205 Kgs of imported cotton yarn found in excess in the factory premises of the appellants valued at Rs. 13,62,575/- have been confiscated and allowed to be redeemed on fine of Rs. 1 lakh; and duty demand on the said quantity of cotton yarn has been ordered for payment which has not been computed in the said order. 2. The appellants raised three main issues :- 3. Heard learned Advocate Shri R. Sashidaran and Mrs. Maithili, learned Advocate for appellants and learned JDR Shri S. Sankara Vadivelu for Revenue. 4. Appellants, unit is located in the Madras Export Promotion Zone (MEPZ) and the import entitlement of raw material is covered by Customs Notification No. 263/85 as amended. Learned Advocates submitted that with respect to the excess cotton yarn found in stock, the said yarn was imported legally under the said notification. In terms of the scheme under which the unit operates, all the export obligations have been met and the stock of cotton yarn found in the factory are remnants of the quantity totally imported. He submitted that no offence has been committed in respect of remnants stock found in their factory premises for the following reasons :- 5. With respect to second issue of confiscation of 6,021 numbers of goods being exported, learned Advocate submits that the findings in this respect in the impugned order are contained in pages 12 to 14 thereof. He further submits as follows :- 6. As far as the third issue of levy of penalty of Rs. 2 lakhs on earlier shipping bill is concerned, learned Advocate argued that the learned Collector had no jurisdiction to do so because those goods had been long ago cleared by Customs and later export order given by them. There is no evidence led by the department as well as recorded in the impugned order that these goods were not exported and therefore the impugned order is highly presumptious. In this connection, he cited the case of Ajay Exports, wherein it is held that Customs cannot reopen the exports except in a manner provided by law. The findings in the impugned order that it is plausible that similar fashion of misdeclara-tions were contained in earlier exports also is highly presumptious and not based on any facts. Therefore, the penalty requires to be set aside. 7. Learned JDR Shri S. Sankara Vadivelu submitted as follows :- 8. Learned JDR hence concluded that there was no infirmity in the order and the appeals need to be dismissed. 9. Learned Advocate rose in rebuttal to submit that with respect of excess yarn, one yarn period for export was available as per the notification. 10. We have carefully considered the arguments on both sides as well as the records of the case. 11. With respect to penalty of Rs. 2 lakhs on the earlier exports, we find that the impugned order does not specifically discover any strong evidence. Merely because certain excess stock of yarn is available in the factory and because misdeclaration was noticed in a subsequent consignment, it does not ipso facto follow that earlier shipments duly checked and allowed by Customs, had sufferred from the same deficiency. It may raise suspicions but penalty cannot be levied on that basis, as no corroborative evidence is on record, such as a complaint from the foreign buyer or proportionately less bank remittances etc. Therefore, we find that this penalty of Rs. 2 lakhs is liable to be set aside. 12. With respect to the shortage of 22,264 pieces of goods as against declared quantity in Shipping Bill Nos. 504, 505 & 506, we find that it was the diligent examination of the consignment by Customs authorities that exposed this fact. Therefore, the exporter had misdeclared this quantity in the shipping bills. It is also significant to note that the deficiency was of a huge quantity and not marginal and was therefore intentional and not the result of any packing error. A declaration of export cargo is statutorily provided in the Customs Act . When it is challenged, as in this case, by way of 100% physical examination, then major inconsistency in that declaration is a serious lapse, as normally customs do not perform such a 100% count and instead rely on such a declaration. A gross misdeclaration on this Shipping Bill, of a tangible data of quantity in number of units, is therefore demonstrative of mala fide intention and is a breach of the trust inherent to the Customs examination procedures. A mis-declaration in quantity, furthermore, also involves a misdeclaration in value in this case, as value declared was for the full quantity, while actual quantity was found to be substantially short. We further find that the Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 defines prohibited goods as follows :- 13. We further find that as per Clause 3(3) of Export Control Order No. 1/88 ETC, dated 30-3-1988 under Section 3 of Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947, it is provided as follows :- Applying these two laws to the facts of this case, we find that as both quantity and value were misdeclared in these shipping bills taken together, therefore these goods are hit by the aforesaid provisions and qualify as "prohibited goods" under the said order. Therefore, they attract the definition of 'prohibited goods' under Section 2(33) of Customs Act, 1962 because of their being prohibited goods under Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (supra). It is therefore clear that goods so misdeclared and tendered for export under shipping bills are "prohibited goods" under Customs Act, 1962 . 14. The impugned order has held that being "prohibited goods", they would be liable to confiscation under Section 113(d) of Customs Act, 1962 which reads as under :- 15. Learned Advocate however painfully but strenuously argues that "prohibited goods" is distinct from any goods whose...export is subject to any prohibition under this Act of any other law..." [ Section 113(d) ]. We are unable to agree with this interpretation. There is no difference between "prohibited goods" and goods "subject to any prohibition", because what is intended is that such goods fall in a category different from "free" or "untainted" goods - a category of prohibition for export. It is not anybody's case here to draw a distinction in law between "prohibition" & "restriction", as nowhere the words "restricted" or "restriction" are used in these statutes. Secondly, the case of Ambalal cited by ld. Advocate is distinguishable on facts as it concerned dutiable goods, whereas these are not so. Therefore, without acceding to such hair-splitting, we prefer to go by a plain reading of these statutes and are of the firm view that as prohibited goods are those which are subject to any prohibition by law (for import & export) therefore Section 113(d) has been correctly involved and applied in this case and goods so legally confiscated. We further find that the redemption fine of Rs. 1,25,000/- for goods confiscated of a value of Rs. 5,71,036/- is not unfair or excessive. We also find that for this gross breach of trust through misdeclaration in shipping bills, and thereby attempting to export prohibited goods confiscable under Section 113(d) of Customs Act, 1962, the penalty of Rs. 1 lakh under Section 114(i) ibid is quite fair and reasonable. On these counts, therefore, we do not find any infirmity in the order impugned. 16. This leaves us to consider the third issue viz. dutiability and confis-cability of unaccounted excess stock of imported yarn found in stock. There is no dispute of the goods alleged to have been found in excess of recorded balance in whatever accounts were being maintained. There is also no dispute on the fact that they are apart of those imported duty free under notification 263/85-Cus. What is disputed is whether in terms of Clause l(7)(b)(i) of the said notification, whether duty is leviable on them or whether in terms of Clause l(7)(b)(i) the importers (appellants) have time of one year for their re-export etc. and that question of dutiability arises only thereafter. The relevant portion of the said notification reads as under :- 17. A plain reading thereof shows that in three different situations covered by Sub-clauses (a), (b) & (c) of Clause 7 the importer shall pay, on demand by Customs, an amount equal to duty involved. It is significant to note that what is payable is an amount (emphasis supplied) equal to duty leviable and not the duty itself. In this case, Sub-clause (a) which covers capital goods is not relevant, yarn not being so. The dispute is between applicability of two alternatives of Sub-clause (b)(i) i.e., which one of the alternatives is to be applied in this case. Revenue seeks to demand aforesaid payments on the grounds that imported yarn found in excess, not being capital goods and having therefore not been used in connection with production of goods for export, should pay duty. Learned Advocate stresses on the word "or re-exported within a period of one year..." and submits that for one year the retained excess goods are untainted by any amounts to be paid. We find that the use of the words "or" here are significant. Upto one year, either alternative is available and the notification further gives discretion to Customs to even extend this period of one year for re-export. In such a situation where two alternatives are provided for by law in an exemption notification, the general principle under taxation law, that the alternative which is chosen as favourable by the importer is to be allowed. In this case, the importer's say is that he chose to wait for one year before either re-exporting the yarn or paying-up. Hence, we find considerable merit in this submission of the learned Advocate. We find that as the period of one year from date of export had not expired on date of issue of SCN for duty amount and confiscation etc., the said proposals therein were premature. We, therefore, find that the demand of paying an amount equal to duty in this case needs to be set aside and order accordingly. Keeping in mind all the facts and circumstances of the case, we order that the interests of justice would be met if these goods are re-exported within three months from the date of this order. However, we also order that if this re-export is not completed within the said time-limit ordered above, then the appellants shall pay the amount equal to the duty leviable thereon as confirmed in the impugned order, within seven days of expiry of this 3 months period. After such payment, the goods would be free for clearance towards home consumption. Since at the time of issue of show-cause notice, the amount equal to duty was not payable therefore the goods cannot also be confiscated. The order confiscating the goods and imposing redemption fine is also set-aside. 18. This leaves only the question fo non-accountal. We find that the order impugned had confiscated the goods for non-accountal but not levied any penalty. We find that non-accountal is not a mere procedural error in special situations like the MEPZ scheme where Revenue gives special and substantial duty concessions. Secondly, the said notification itself provides for proper accountal of imported goods, which has not been followed. But it is well settled law that in cases of goods found in excess in a factory (as per accounts), only penalty is leviable, but since goods are still within the limit of the zone confiscation thereof would be incorrect. The order impugned has not levied any penalty on this count. There is also no cross-appeal from Revenue for such an imposition. We have already ordered that confiscation is set aside. Therefore no other orders are required on this issue. However, we warn the importers that they shall be more careful in future to maintain immaculate accounts and also order them that the excess goods concerned shall be immediately taken on their prescribed account books pending its re-export or clearance on payment etc. 19. To sum-up the above orders, we order as follows :- 20. The order impugned stands modified as per above and the appeal succeeds partially accordingly.