% 07.05.2024 1. The instant suit has been filed seeking permanent injunction
 restraining Defendant No. 1, or any other person acting on their behalf, from
 using the Plaintiff's registered trademark "DREAM11", or any other
 deceptively similar mark, in any manner which amounts to infringement
 and/or passing off of the Plaintiff's trademark. 2. Defendant No. 1, is/are the person(s), who owns and operates the
 domain name "dream111.net"1 and the corresponding website 1 "Impugned domain" 3. Plaintiff No. 1, i.e., Sporta Technologies Pvt. Ltd., is a private listed
 company, which provides a platform for online fantasy sport leagues to
 online players. Plaintiff No. 1 is a wholly owned subsidiary of Plaintiff No.
 2, i.e., Dream Sports Inc., a company incorporated under the laws of
 Delaware, United States of America4. The Plaintiffs are a well-known
 fantasy sports platform launched in 2012, and are the official fantasy sports
 partners of various sporting events across the world. 4. In their plaint, the Plaintiffs have explained the concept of online
 fantasy sport league as follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:37
 teams of each contest are then rewarded monetarily. Thereafter, players can
 liquidate their monetary wins by making a withdrawal request, where the
 money will then be credited to the player's bank account linked with the
 online "DREAM11" account. 5. Plaintiff No. 1 is the registered proprietor of the trademarks

 " ", " ", " ",

 " " and " " in Classes 9, 16, 35,
 41 and 42. Whereas, Plaintiff No. 2 is the regsitered propritor of the word
 mark "DREAM11" in Classes 9, 16, 18, 28, 35, 38, 42 and 45, and the

 device marks " " and " " in Classes 38
 and 41 respectively5. Apart from the above, Plaintiff No. 2 is also the
 registrant of the domain "dream11.com". 6. Due to the long and continuous use of the Plaintiffs' trademarks, the
 Plaintiffs have garnered significant goodwill and reputation among online
 fantasy sports platfroms. Plaintiffs have incurred significant marketing and
 advertisement expenses and have appointed a number of well-known
 professional Indian and international cricketers to promote their services.
 The popularity of the Plaintiffs is evidenced by the fact that the Plaintiffs
 have acquired a long-term Official Fantasy Sports provider deal with the
 International Cricket Council6 for all their tournaments. Further, Plaintiffs'
 have also averred that their mobile and online platform have over 15 crore 5 All of the marks delineated hereinabove are collectively referred to as "Plaintiff's trademarks" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 users playing fantasy sports such as cricket, football, hockey, kabaddi,
 baseball, handball and basketball, with over 1000 contests being organised
 on a daily basis. 7. The Plaintiff's grievance in the present suit, arises from Defendant
 No. 1's use of the mark "DREAM111" for registration of the impugned

 domain name, as well as, use of the logo " " on the
 impugned website. Plaintiffs have submitted that in April 2023, they first
 came across the impugned website, which as per the WHOIS records, was
 registered on 26th January, 2022, however, the details of the registrant of the
 impugned domain name is not available in the said records. Defendant No.
 2, i.e., GoDaddy.com LLC, is the Domain Name Regsitrar7 of the impugned
 domain. Further, upon perusal of the impugned website, it is noted that the
 same is a single-page website requiring login details of the alleged user,
 however, there is no option for registering a user on the said portal. Further,
 it was noted that the website does not have any option for viewing its
 contents, without logging in. A screenshot of the inpugned website is as
 follows: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38 8. In light of the above, the Plaintiffs contend that the impugned website
 is engaged in the activity of "typo-squatting" and "credential harvesting",
 which are forms of cyber-crimes, wherein a false website is established and
 is made to appear deceptively similar to the original website, so that unwary
 internet users mistake the two and input their sensitive information into the
 fake website, which is then 'harvested' or stolen by hackers. It is contended
 that Defendant No. 1 has procured registration of a domain name, which is
 deceptively similar to that of the Plaintiffs, in order to procure the login
 credentials of the Plaintiffs' users. 9. In terms of impleading multiple Defendants in the instant suit, the
 Plaintiffs submit that the only contesting defendant in the instant suit is
 Defendant No. 1, whereas, Defendants No. 2, 3 and 4 have only impleaded
 as Defendants to ensure complaince of the Court's directions in terms of any
 injunction that may be granted. PROCEDURAL HISTORY 10. This court, on 26th May, 2023, on a prima facie assessment of the
 facts narrated in the plaint and the accompanying documents, granted an ad-
 inerim ex-parte injunction in favour of the Plaintiffs. The said order also CS(COMM) 351/2023 Page 5 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 briefly takes note of the facts of the case and the controversy. The relevant
 portion of the order, is reproduced hereinebelow: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 18.2. Defendant No. 2 is directed to suspend access to the impugned
 website "www.dream111.net" of Defendant No. 1 and disclose the contact
 details of the registrant of the said domain name. KYC details of the said
 registrants shall also be filed in a sealed cover. Further, Defendant No. 2
 shall maintain status quo with respect to the ownership of impugned
 website, during the pendency of the present suit. 18.3. Defendants No. 3 and 4 are directed to issue appropriate
 notifications calling upon various internet service providers to block
 access to the impugned website of Defendant No. 1 "www.dream111.net". 11. In compliance with the aforenoted directions, Defendant No. 2 shared
 the contact details of Defendant No. 1 and accordingly the Plaintiffs
 impleaded one KK Bet as Defendant No. 1 and incorporated the said details
 in the amended memo of parties, which was filed on 22nd June, 2023. The
 details of Defendant No. 1, as provided in the amended memo of parties, are
 as follows: 12. As noted in the order dated 30th October, 2023, the contact details of
 Defendant No. 1, as provided by DNR, are inadequate to serve Defendant
 No. 1, as the address mentioned therein - i.e., "Haridwar, Rishikesh,
 Madhya Pradesh - 249201", is clearly incomplete and fake. In such
 circumstances, the Court, observed that the aforenoted contact details on the
 face of it are inadequate to attempt any service on Defendant No. 1 through
 ordinary mode and speed post, and permitted the Plaintiffs to effect service
 of summons and notices on the email address and mobile number given by
 the DNR. The Registry was also directed to serve summons on the said CS(COMM) 351/2023 Page 7 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 email address and mobile number. Further, the DNR was directed to lock
 and suspend the impugned domain name, making the interim injunction
 order absolute, during the pendency of the instant suit. 13. In compliance of the Court's abovementioned directions, the Plaintiff
 filed an affidavit of service dated 7th December, 2023, detailing the service
 effected on Defendant No. 1 on the email address as provided by the DNR.
 However, despite such service of summons, the Defendant No. 1 has not
 appeared or filed a written statement, to defend its claim, within the time
 allowable. 14. Accordingly, the defence of Defendant No. 1 is now closed and they
 are preceded ex-parte. ANALYSIS 15. Mr. Rohan Krishna Seth, counsel for the Plaintiffs, on instructions
 states, that in view of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the instant
 case, Plaintiffs are willing to relinquish their claim for damages and
 rendition of accounts, and seek relief of permanent injunction as well as
 appropriate directions to be issued to the DNR, i.e., Defendant No. 2, to
 transfer the domain name in question, to the Plaintiffs. 16. Considering the fact that despite being duly served summons and
 notice, on the email address as provided by the DNR, Defendant No. 1 has
 not contested the present proceedings, the Court presumes that Defendant
 No. 1 has no cogent defence to the allegations made against them in the suit.
 In the aforesaid circumstances, the Court deems it fit to proceed to
 adjudicate the present matter summarily against Defendant No. 1 under
 Order VIII Rule 10 and Order XIII-A Rule 3 of the Code of Civil CS(COMM) 351/2023 Page 8 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 Procedure8, as applicable to commercial disputes, read with Rule 27 of the
 Delhi High Court Intellectual Property Division Rules, 2022. 17. The Plaintiff have established their statutory rights over their
 trademark "DREAM11" by way of the Legal Proceeding Certificates for
 said trademark registrations. Further, on comparing the Defendant's mark
 "Dream111"9 with the Plaintiffs' trademarks, it is evident that the impugned
 mark is structurally, visually and phonetically almost identical to the
 Plaintiffs' trademark. The impugned marks "Dream111" and

 " " subsume the Plaintiff's "DREAM11" marks, with the
 only difference being addition of '1' at the end. Moreover, the domain name
 "dream111.net" is also confusingly similar to the Plaintiff's "dream11.com".
 Thus, the impugned mark is deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's registered
 trademarks. 18. Furthermore, Defendant No. 1's use of the impugned domain name,
 which is confusingly and deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's, evidences the
 intent to establish a close association with the Plaintiff. Thus, the impugned
 domain name and its corresponding impugned website amounts to
 infringement of the Plaintiff's trademarks and passing off of its services. 19. It is also pertinent to note that, considering the fact that the impugned
 website is a single page website instructing users to first input their login
 credentials, in order to access any service on the impugned website, there is
 a strong potential that unwary user might mistakenly believe the impugned
 website to be associated with the Plaintiff's platform, and inadvertently 8 " CPC " This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38
 input login credentials associated with their accounts on the Plaintiff's
 "DREAM11" platform. 20. In light of the above, there is not only a possibility of breach of
 privacy of the users, in terms of sensitive information such as email address
 and password, but pertinently, since user accounts on the Plaintiff's platform
 are also linked with the user's respective bank accounts, this malafide
 misrepresentation on the impugned website can possibly lead to extremely
 serious data privacy breaches and theft. Moreover, Defendant No. 1's use of
 a fake address to register the impugned domain name with the DNR, is
 further evidence to the fact that Defendant No. 1's use of the impugned
 mark is in bad faith and is intended to take undue advantage of consumers. 21. In light of the above, the suit is decreed in favour of the Plaintiffs and
 against the Defendant No. 1 in terms of prayer 36 (a) & (b). 22. As regards prayer 36(c) is concerned, Defendant No. 2 has no
 objection to transfer the domain name "dream111.net" to the Plaintiffs.
 Further, as has been observed, Defendant No. 1 has not contested the present
 proceeding. Therefore, it is considered appropriate to direct Defendant No. 2
 to transfer the said domain name to Plaintiffs subject to the completion of
 necessary formalities. 23. With the above directions, the present suit is disposed of with the
 pending applications. 24. Decree sheet be drawn up. SANJEEV NARULA, J
 MAY 7, 2024/as CS(COMM) 351/2023 Page 10 of 10 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 17/05/2024 at 21:33:38