SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How to have your shit together?
DATE: 2023-04-05
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12cnx9x/how_to_have_your_shit_together/

--- POST TEXT ---

In my opinion, even the best of us in worldwide sense don't have their shit together.

I was just wondering how to have your shit together. Just now my father said to me "You should wash the bags you require... for how many years are you going to be dependent on others?" He likes to watch news a lot so I don't expect empathy from him. It's scientifically proven news makes you be less able to empathize with others.

I'm a 22 year old law student and unemployed. When I'm not studying, working out, job-hunting, exercising or whatever, I'm reading books on soft skills and life skills. And not just reading but applying that in my life as well.

That being said, I don't like how my father thinks I'm a disappointment every day. I've a driving license but I do not drive cause my father was a busy English teacher and he couldn't resign cause he was to get 50 lakhs as a retirement bonus....

That being said, I'm interested in getting my life together. [This western website](https://getyourshittogether.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Get-Your-ShtTogether_2-PageOriginalChecklist.pdf) puts an emphasis on insurance, powers of attorney (ironic in my case)/will, etc. just the standard financial check list. This does not apply to developing country and especially not to me as I'm jobless.

So I was wondering how to have my life together? I have not murdered anyone and so I'm not in prison for life, but I haven't got a stable professional job like IAS with great work-life-balance, great pay and great job security either.

My idea of "getting your shit together" is in no particular order

1. Having no chronic disease and minimum overall health issues. Being physically fit.
2. Having a good job with decent pay and job security.
3. Having a decent education (personally I want to be a lawyer and then a judge.)
4. Following your passion (I also want to join the Territorial Army as an infantry officer, but the return on investment is really practically zero.)
5. Having a good number of friends you can trust.
6. Not wasting your life doing anything in excess, whether working 12 hours a day or watching YouTube and Netflix all day long.

It's hard and I guess that's why people don't have their shit together, even athletes and CEOs who are accomplished. But if I get a good job, or in general any job before getting a good job, I will do my bestto get my shit together. My father likes to criticize me but in truth I'm thinking 24/7 about getting my shit together and this includes rest and some screen time also but not all day long.

Thanks.

Update: Holy shit I wasn't expecting the backlash. I sound way too much like someone who's wasting his life... But I'm doing my best and will start my own business if I'm not selected anywhere.

First, I need to delete my reddit account. Not because I'm somebody who reads weird books, makes weird excuses and is lazy, but because I don't want drama in my life. I'm young as compared to a 40 year old man, so please don't call me "old." Visit r/army for some perspective, even the US Army is chill compared to us Indians on r/india.

Second, I'm trying to assemble my life action by action, piece by piece. My parents were not supportive as much as they can. It's normal, it's called life and having imperfect parents. In my opinion, in India we put way too much emphasis on personal responsibility. [The Average American earns 12x more than the average Indian, what role does personal responsibility play here?](https://ourworldindata.org/global-economic-inequality-introduction#where-a-person-finds-themselves-in-the-extremely-unequal-global-income-distribution-is-mostly-determined-by-where-they-are)

I do not want to be negative, please don't take this like that - [but indeed India has lower opportunities than we imagine.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Social_Mobility_Index) Whether we like it or not, our living conditions are partially determined by things outside of our control. That is not a necessarily a bad thing, I would not want to earn billion dollars a year but work 16 hours per day for some company that may not outlive me or my children. Like Elon Musk or Mark Zuckerberg or whatever.

If nobody hires me, I will start my business. I wanted to do MBBS and join the army, couldn't get into MBBS, didn't go for B.Pharm, did BS Zoology and now I'm a 2nd year LL.B student. So I've switched fields essentially. My friends cheat on exams and they are behind me, for all that's worth. For starting my business I need to get my shit together, I cant just summon a building out of thin air and I'm working on my PAN card so I can switch my PNB account from "student" to "general" and thus get a loan. Can't summon a building out of thin air, right, it's not about being comfortable just I'm a bit behind when compared to other people who were not as unlucky as me.

So, basically, I just wanted to say thank you for your wonderful suggestions. I'd like to suggest something too.

1. Be chill, go to r/army or something and learn to be chill. I think we at India don't take care of ourselves and are like "ura! will win the world! jay hind!" and thus obviously fall flat on our face. I've been guilty of that too.
2. Read more. I'm not saying you need to buy a book one month and read it cover to cover. Just read more that's how you learn. Are self-help books a scam? Probably. But reading is what separates an MBA CEO from an illiterate worker at a factory. Just make sure to apply shit in your life, \*life isn't about accumulating wealth, living in fear and arrogance and then dying.\*

And what I've decided to do? After discussing on this thread?

1. Pursue a two month internship after my fourth semester exams are over. Make connections, friendship with lawyers and judges.
2. Start my own business if nobody hires me. Search on Google, in India we've more people and less jobs? Why? The fuckin' govt fucked up a long time ago.
3. I still want to join Special Forces as a Territorial Army officer when I can and I'll have to work very hard to get on to that level. I do exercise like the US Special Forces, just need to lose 5kg right now and focus on my diet. It's not as hard as you think, as I said Indians in general need to chill. Need to work on my running speed and do more pull-ups, Army Bharti PFT is nice too at this stage.
4. Read only productive books. Like it or not, reading is essential and only reading UPSC books will not build our character or help with our mental health. Even if we get a govt job like IPS, we'll work for the govt and thus get exploited by it. Is this what we want, really?

Thanks for your suggestions, I've read everything and I'm grateful for the responses. I've come off as a lazy, parents-hating comfort-lover but I'd say that's not the case. I work as much as I can but because of caste (Hindu Mahr/SC) or whatever, I'm a bit behind in an absolute sense/compared to everyone else my age. But I'm sure I will be an excellent lawyer and a reservist soldier if I continue doing what I'm doing. As somebody said, you need to put in the work to get the results. I never said I'm not working, it's just that I want to do quality work (therefore less, don't lie to yourselves people) and want a work-life balance cause I don't want the govt to exploit me. I don't want to die working, that wasn't what I was born to do.

Once again, thanks. Take care of yourselves and chill and read more, it's a general advice I give to everyone I know. I'm just a little behind everyone my age but after putting in the work I can excel in law as well as the military and still have a work-life balance, it's just that I do not know how to keep things brief yet detailed so I've come off as another person I think.

Edit: I'm also a male from Hindu Mahr caste, that is SC caste. So I've set realistic expectations to myself, that is to assemble my dream life action by action, habit by habit and piece by piece and day by day. I can't do quality work 10 hours a day for every day rest of my life, that's just not realistic for me.