i got an email that i got thelottery prizes of 5lac british pound but they are one cheating with me.see below.Google-Yahoo Corporations 30 Leichester Square. City,London. Country, United Kingdom. Postal/Zip Code, WC2H 7LA +[protected] +[protected] =================================== Dear Lucky Winner Hearty Congratulations to you from the Board and Members of the Google_Yahoo Lottery Co-operations on your email draw selection for the cash prize of 500,000.00 Pounds.Your bio-datas has been received and  verified.We wish to use this medium to confirm to you that your email address  selected for this year's online email random sweepstake programme, has successfully passed our verification email matching test for  our 11 winners in this annual online lottery programme organised by the Google Co-operations in collaboration with Yahoo Group. By responding to the winning  notification mail means that you are now qualified to  received the prize amount stated in your category,which is 500,000.00 Great British Pound Sterlings. Do make sure that you are the rightful owner of the winning email because strict penalty with be taking by this  organisation against you,if discovered that you are not the rightful user of this email or false informations sent to this office. A Crossed cashier cheque has been issued in the name which you have sent to this office and registered under the BRITISH INSURANCE MINISTRY with  hard cover issurance policy which makes your cheque  absolutely impossible for anyone to cash except you and this cheque can only be cleared to your designated local bank account by a hand written signature from the beneficiary whose name is boldly written on the top  of the cheque and that person is you. This means that you alone would be required to sign for the clearance of the cheque upon the arrival of your cheque and every legal documents from this reputable organisation. A sealed Parcel with identification number CPL/0976/008 has been package,  registered and insured  by our reliable delivery agency here in england. ICM(International Cargo Movers)a reputable international  forwarders,consolidators and shipping agent with an efficient air frieght forwarding service,providing you an expedited service for time critical consignment like this,due to urgency in this delivery.We have selected  the most appropriate carrier(ICM) for this delivery while taking into account the variations of delivery restrictions on international money orders and payment cheques as this involves air frieght consolidation,custom  clearance and registrations and air frieght parcel status update. Due to security and urgency measures in this delivery,we have employed the service of a senior Diplomatic Official from the BRITISH CONSULATE COUNCIL(MR BEN GRAHAMS).  Mr BEN would be arriving india on SATURDAY 28TH OF SEPTEMBER 2011 BY 10:00 AM through BRITISH AIRWAYS for the subsequent delivery of your winning  parcel with identification number CPL/0976/008 to you and also to assist you in cashing your cheque into your back account. You are adviced to follow  every instruction giving to you by our representative as delay  in this delivery process from your end would not be tolerated for any reason. This means that you must be present at the address you have giving us and keep your mobile on to avoid delaying our representative(Mr BEN GRAHAMS) waiting at his airport of arrival. As soon as our diplomatic representative( Mr.BEN GRAHAMS) arrives at any of the international airport in your country,he would give you a call on your mobile in other for you to confirm your address  location to him once more.So you are adviced to keep  your mobile on and If for any reason your winning parcel is stopped at the international airport,please note that this is due to the international monetary order on  payment cheque restrictions in accordance to the International monetary funds reformed order of 1995,sec 11 money ACT. So you would be required to make a payment of (22,500.00 RS) Twenty Two Thousand Five  hundred Rupees,which is a global custom clearance and registration charge. You are expected to make this payment available to our diplomatic officer in other for him to complete the clearance formalities before  proceeding to your residence to deliver your parcel to you. NOTE that the payment of 22,500.00 RS is only a clearance charge which is compulsary because this is an international valued cheque and has to be registered before clearing into your bank account.So it is very important that you send this payment to our diplomat on his arrival to the airport. THANK YOU FOR YOUR UNDERSTANDING IN THE CLAIMS REMITTANCE PROCESS AND WE BELIEVE THAT YOU WILL PUT YOUR WINNINGS INTO GOOD USE. IN OTHER FOR US TO CONFIRM THAT YOU ARE IN  RECEIPT OF THIS MAIL AND PROCEED WITH THE DELIVERY OF YOUR PARCEL,DO SEND AN EMAIL TO US IMMEDIATELY STATING YOUR READINESS AND AVAILABILITY TO RECEIVE OUR DIPLOMATIC  PERSONALITY AND YOUR WINNING PARCEL. Regards, Mr. Harry Cole.