SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Randians, need advice on how to recover from something
DATE: 2016-01-08
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3zx1xn/randians_need_advice_on_how_to_recover_from/

--- POST TEXT ---

Since I wasn't that clear in the title - my dad got scammed out of that stupid Nigerian scam email bullshit. Something about a huge sum being transferred to his account, so he can set up a trust and use a percentage for his own purpose. Of course, he would have to pay the amount for 'taxes and other expenses for clearing the sum'. 

He would always be on the phone discussing about exchange conversion rate etc etc, and I wondered what that was (I thought he was importing medical equipment, since he's a doctor setting up a new Dept at the hospital he works at). When my brother came to know of this, he scolded him and made him aware of his gullibility and thought he stopped after. He had already transferred a lot of money (I'm guessing it could be within the ballpark of 10 lakhs) by then to this Nigerian man's account. 

The thing is my brother heard him discussing those matters again, he mentioned someone was supposed to come home today to give the money, (Yeah, he even gave out our personal address. However I live separately in an apartment), no one turned up though. Just came to know that he's supposed to be meeting someone at the airport tomorrow to get the money, and I know it sounds creepy. Despite everyone ,including my Mom, Uncle etc talking him into believing that he's being scammed. 

At this point I wouldn't blame you if you were to think my dad an idiot, but after reading more on this It dawned that he is probably overwhelmed by the social networking and technology. He went on to create a Facebook , a LinkedIn, a twitter and his own website (for whom he contacted someone in Delhi, while we're in Kerala) all of them just a few months back, so he could've thought the response to his professional fame was reflected in that email (he has given talks on his area of work, even outside India). Though that is definitely not an excuse. 

Long story short, this was reported to the cyber cell, and they have told to register a complaint, along with the bank details. And that we probably will do tomorrow, the issue is that my dad still feels this person would just hand over the money and he was justified in making all those payments. 

Should I be worried about the safety of my family and father, and is there any way for recovering the amount lost ? I didn't intend for the post to get this long, but there are a lot of strong emotions I'm filtering out. Sorry if the title was misleading. Would really be thankful for any advice on this situation.