SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Online Credit Card fraud under the name of Car rental service 
DATE: 2024-04-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ccrch8/online_credit_card_fraud_under_the_name_of_car/

--- POST TEXT ---

So I was looking for a rental car in Pune. 
One of the "Sponsored" google searches (which come at top) showed Bharat rental cars. 

I checked it. Decent looking website, I entered the details about pick up and drop and clicked on enquiry. 

A person called me with the details. (This is where the fraud starts). He offered me very affordable rates and asked me to submit booking amount of only 150₹ on website. (Balaji rental cars). 

I went to the website, it asked to download the App for 50% discount, so I clicked on download. 

First red flag : Instead of redirecting me to playstore.. it directly downloaded a apk file. I installed it anyway. 
Second red flag : It asked me for permission to read messages and I allowed.
Third red flag : I could not see the app in apps drawer so I thought it crashed or didn't get installed. 

So I proceeded to book the ride via website itself. But I did not receive any OTP and the transaction failed. But it had my Credit card details. 
I tried once more with debit card, and faced same issue. 

I stopped trying, and started working on some other stuff. 
I suddenly received a message with OTP for 150₹ transaction. and even when I haven't shared OTP anywhere, 150₹ got deducted. 

I got a doubt about app, 
And found that app from settings and before I uninstall it, another OTP for 1.5 Lakh was received.. I got shocked and uninstalled the app. But till then the OTP was read in background.. and I got message from bank that Transaction for 1.5lakh was started. (Mazi ga*nd faatleli). 
Immediately another message with OTP for 7Lakh... 

But jai Ho ICICI bank ki.. 
I got a call from bank to confirm if the transaction was made by me and until then the transaction was withheld. 
I immediately blocked my cards on that call.. called the bank and confirmed the balance, i had not lost anything. 

If that security call wasn't there then I would have lost everything.. 

I have registered complaint on cybercrime.gov.in . 

Guys never install any app unless you trust them completely. 
Always check app permissions and remove any app permission which you think is unnecessary.

And never keep huge bank balance in the account which you use for online transactions...