1. This is a plaintiff-appellant's (for brevity 'the plaintiff) second appeal directed against the judgment and decree passed by the Additional District Judge, Karnal dt. 6.3.1980. The Additional Dist. Judge, Karnal in his judgment partially agreed with the findings recorded by the Sub Judge, 2nd Class, Karnal on 13.2.1979. The relief claimed in the suit was that the registered sale deed dated 9.2.1976 executed by the plaintiff-appellant in favour of the defendant-respondent (for brevity 'the defendant') for a period of 99 years be declared as null and void and thus not binding on the plaintiff-appellant. As a consequence of the declaration, further relief claimed was that the plaintiff be given possession of agricultural land measuring 241 kanal 12 marlas situated in village Bhauji, Tehsil and District Karnal, as described in the plaint. 2. The case set up by the plaintiff is that she is the owner of the suit land measuring 241 kanals 12 marlas situated in village Bhauji, Tehsil and Distt. Karnal as per Jamabandi for the year 1970-71. The defendant is her real brother's son. The agricultural property was inherited by the plaintiff from her husband after his death. It is claimed that the plaintiff was in self cultivating possession of the afore-mentioned agricultural land till kharif 1976. Earlier to 1976, she used to give this land for cultivation to Ramjilal and Gian Singh as tenant who were her husband's brother's sons. It is further pleaded that on account of advance age she was not keeping well and became weak because of her illness. Th3 defendant is alleged to have approached her with a request that he is given land on lease for a period of one year and she was assured to proper medical care by him and it is alleged that the defendant promised to hand over possession of the land to the plaintiff after completion of one year. It was in pursuance of this understanding that the plaintiff was asked to sign some papers at Karnal which was believed to be a lease in favour of the defendant for a period of one year. On completion of one year, the defendant was to surrender possession of the suit land and she was told for the first time that the land had been leased for 99 years and there was no question of handing over possession. Alter this revelation, the plaintiff obtained an attested copy of the said lease deed and she was shocked to discover that her thumb mark was obtained on a lease which, in fact, was for 99 years. The plaintiff further claimed that she was victim of a fraud as she was illiterate, old, ill and ignorant village woman and the afore-mentioned lease was manipulated by the defendant with a mala fide intention of divesting her from the property. It was also alleged that nobody would lease out the land for a vowfully small amount of Rs.2,500/- per year. In any case no amount of money was ever paid by the defendant to the plaintiff. On the basis of the aforementioned assertions the relief claimed in the suit was that the registered sale-deed dated 9.2.1976 in favour of the defendant be declared null and void hence not binding on the plaintiff. As a consequence of the declaration possession of the suit land has also been claimed. 3. Defendant filed written statement controverting the averments made by the plaintiff in the plaint. It was claimed that the suit was benami and the plaintiff was estopped from filing the suit by her own act and conduct. It was also claimed that the defendant had installed a tube-well in the suit land and no objection was raised by the plaintiff at that time. The allegation that the plaintiff is 70 years old or is totally illiterate and ignorant was controverted. It was also claimed that the plaintiff had no daughter. The version of the plaintiff that the defendant had approached her for taking land for a period of one year and that assurance was given by defendant to get her medically treated at Karnal has also been controverted. Defendant, however, admitted that she was a widow. The reason for leasing out the land pleaded by the defendant is that the plaintiff did not have any source of income and to generate some income the lease deed was executed. Defendant pleaded in paragraph 5 of the written statement that the plaintiff-appellant did not accept the lease money from the defendant. However, no date is given when the lease money was offered or refused. On the basis of the lease deed even mutation has been sanctioned and the plaintiff executed a power of attorney in favour of one Babu Ram for getting the mutation sanctioned. 4. The plaintiff-appellant filed replication reiterating the stand taken in the plaint and emphasised tat the preliminary objections were frivolous. She also pointed out that she had a daughter with the name of Smt. Pan Pori. On the question of undue influence it was stated that the defendant-respondent took undue advantage of a helpless and illiterate old lady and she was made to thumb mark some papers fraudulently and with ulterior motive. It was further asserted by the plaintiff-appellant that defendant-respondent was definitely guilty of abuse of faith and committed fraud. She repeatedly denied the assertion that she executed a lease deed on her own free volition and consent. On the ground that the lease deed has been obtained by committing fraud and in any case it was without any consideration, the plaintiff-appellant sought a declaration for invalidation of the lease deed. 5. The trial Court examined the plaintiff who appeared as PW1. Ramji Lal son of Laja Ram who was cultivating the land earlier appeared as PW-2. The plaintiff also tendered in evidence Ex.P1 to P5. Ex.P1 is the attested copy of the lease deed, Ex.P2 is the copy of jamabandi for the years 1970-71 showing that the plaintiff is owner in possession of the suit land, Ex.P3 is also copy of jamabandi for the years 1970-71 in respect of some other khasra nos. Ex.P4 is copy of khasra girdwari for the years 1974-75 and 1976-77 where the plaintiff herself is shown in cultivating possession and the land is shown on lease with Jang Sher Singh defendant. 6. The defendant produced DW1 Ram Lubhaya, deed writer who had scribed the lease deed on 9.2.1976. DW2 Lachhman Singh who is the marginal witness on the lease deed. DW3 Jang Sher Singh defendant has himself appeared in the witness box. Ex.D1 was produced on record which is an original lease deed. 7. The Trial Court after detail examination of the statements as well as documents exhibited by the parties concluded that the plaintiff had failed to prove that the lease deed was executed by her because of misrepresentation or fraud. An issue was framed being issue No.5 to this effect and the onus to prove this issue was placed on the plaintiff. The view of the trial Court and its findings on the vital issue No.5 are as under:- 8. The Trial Court also came to the conclusion that it was for the plaintiff to prove the perpetration of fraud which she miserably failed to prove. Relying on the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Subhash Chandra Das v. Ganga Prasad Das , AIR 1967 SC 878, the trial Court concluded as under:- The plaintiff has also claimed that she was a Parda Nashin lady and the contention of the plaintiff was repelled by the trial Court on the ground that there were no such pleadings in the plaint filed by the plaintiff and in the absence of such a plea in the plaint it cannot be raised. Rejecting this contention the trial Court came to the following conclusion : The plaintiff has further asserted that an amount of Rs. 2,500/- per year for the lease of land measuring 241 kanals 12 marlas was too meagre an amount to raise an inference that lease deed was a unconscionable document. The trial Court rejected this argument as well with the following findings: On other issues the trial Court also gave findings in favour of the defendant and against the plaintiff. The trial Court concluded that the suit has been filed at the instance of other persons and it was a benami litigation and that the plaintiff was estopped from bringing the suit because when defendant installed a tube-well no objection was raised. 9. Having lost before the trial Court on the vital issue of procuring the lease dated 9.2.1976 by misrepresentation or fraud the plaintiff filed appeal before the Additional District Judge, Karnal which was dismissed on 6.3.1980. The learned Additional District Judge set aside the finding of the trial Court on the issue that (a) the plaintiff was estopped from filing the suit on the ground that in the lease deed itself a right was given to the defendant to install a tube-well. Therefore, installation of a tube-well would nor work as estoppel to challenge the validity or legality of the lease, (b) Even on issue No.2, it was held that the suit was not filed at the instance of some other persons and, as such, was not benami. The learned Additional District Judge came to the conclusion that the trial Court had committed an error. In paragraph 11 the following findings have been recorded: On the vital issue as not whether the lease deed dated 9.2.1976 was procured by fraud and/or misrepresentation, the findings of the trial Court were affirmed by the Additional District Judge on the basis of following reasons:- 10. The learned appellate Court on the basis of above reasons came to the conclusion that the evidence led by the plaintiff did not inspire confidence and recorded findings which are as under :- The learned Additional District Judge also gave a finding of fact with some doubts about the education and age of the plaintiff and because of the disability the plaintiff did not have the benefit of independent advice. The learned Additional District Judge recorded its findings as under:- 11. I have heard Shri R.S. Mittal, learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff and Shri S.C. Kapoor, learned Senior Counsel for the defendant and have pursued the record with their assistance. 12. Shri R.S. Mittal, learned Senior Counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the learned Court has drawn a very fine distinction between the expression fraud and misrepresentation on the one hand and undue influence on the other. He further submitted that a bare look at the averments in the plaint and evidence would show that the plaintiff had pleaded undue influence without this expression having been used in the pleadings. He drew my attention to the statements of PW], DW2, DW3 and then submitted that there is complete mis-reading of the statement made by the plaintiff as PW1, scribe DW2 and defendant DW3 Shri Mittal further argued that no reliance could be placed on the endorsement made by the Sub Registrar with regard to authenticity of the contents of the document and it has been erroneously done by the lower appellate Court. Condemning the approach adopted by the trial Court as well as the appellate Court, Shri Mittal submitted that the onus of proof in such cases would shift to the defendant for the reason that the lease deed dated 9.2.1976 was executed by an old and sick woman. The learned Additional District Judge while recording a finding to reverse issue No.2 had also come to the conclusion that plaintiff was an old lady and was dependent upon the help of other people. Therefore, according to the learned counsel once this is the finding of the appellate Court then it cannot be claimed that the plaintiff was not a woman who was old and sick and felt handicapped in her day to day activities and that she was dependent upon the help of others. 13. In support of his submission, the learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Subhash Chandra Das Mushib v. Ganga Prasad Das Mushib and Ors. , AIR 1967 SC 878 (supra); a judgment of the Gauhati High Court in Gillian Bibi v. Nazir-ud-din-Mia, AIR 1975 Gau. 30 and a Division Bench judgment of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Daya Shankar v. Smt. Bachi , AIR 1982 All. 376 and contended that in cases of this nature where the executor of the deed is an illiterate, old and sick women, the burden would shift to the defendant to establish that the deed was executed bona fide and there was no mis-representation fraud or undue influence. He also relied on the provisions of Section 111 of the Evidence Act, 1872 and Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1961 to argue that in such a case where one party is in a position to dominate the will of the other party then the defendant was required to prove that the deed was not induced by undue influence, misrepresentation or coercion. For this proposition, he relied on the Division Bench judgment of the Oudh High Court in the case of Sant Bux Singh v. Alia Raza Khan and Ors. AIR 1946 Oudh. 129. 14. Shri S.C. Kapoor, learned Counsel for the defendant controverted the argument of Shri Mittal and urged as under:- 15. In order to clear the preliminary objections raised by Shri Kapoor by citing two judgments of the Supreme Court on Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure which required framing of a question of law, Shri Mittal pointed out that no difficulty would arise once this Court comes to the conclusion that the documents and statements have been read by the Courts below in such a manner that it would make a material difference to the findings then such a defect would itself be a question of law. In support of this proposition, learned Counsel relied on para 34 of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Kulwant Kaur v. Gurdial Singh Mann (dead) by LRs and Ors., 2001(4) SCC 262. Paragraph 34 reads as under:- The requirements stand specified in Section 103 and nothing short of it will bring it within the ambit of Section 100 since the issue of perversity will also come within the ambit of substantial question of law as noticed above. The legality of finding of fact cannot but be termed to be a question of law. We reiterate, however, that there must be a definite finding to that effect in the judgment of the High Court so as to make it evident that section 100 of the Code stand complied with." 16. Shri Mittal urged that once lower appellate Court has reached the conclusion that instead of misrepresentation and fraud the plaintiff could have pleaded undue influence then the question of undue influence should have been examined by the lower appellate Court and it should not have felt handicap for the reason that undue influence was not pleaded because misrepresentation and fraud are closely associated with undue influence and all the facts showing undue influence are on record. In cases of misrepresentation and fraud the nature of document executed is entirely different than the one represented to be executed. For example, representation may be made for execution of a deed of guarantee whereas actually a lease deed is got executed. Such type of cases would be covered by the expression of misrepresentation and fraud. However. the cases of undue influence would be such cases where one party is in a dominant position to influence the mind and position of the executor. In other words, where the executor is not willing to execute a document but because of undue influence the document is got executed. In this category would fall the cases like where a doctor influence his patient to execute a document in his favour or a lawyer influence his client to do such a thing. 17. From the statements of various witnesses and the findings given by the learned Additional District Judge, it is clear that the plaintiff was an illiterate, old and sick lady. It is also clear that then: was no consideration paid for execution of lease for a period of 99 years. The learned Additional District Judge while reversing the finding on issue No. 2 that the suit was a proxy litigation filed by the plaintiff gave a finding that the plaintiff being an old lady was dependent upon the help of other people. It has been stated by the plaintiff as PW1 that she used to consult defendant on day to day affairs and she had never visited the fields. It is also clear from the statements of plaintiff as well as of PW2 Ramji Lal that she used to get an income of Rs. 20,0007- p.a. from the suit land when Ramji Lal and Giano used to cultivate the suit land. Ramji Lal in his statement had also stated that three years prior to 1976 he used to cultivate the suit land and when plaintiff insisted for treatment and medical care they refused. On their refusal she had called her nephew namely defendant-respondent to look after the health of the plaintiff and to get her treated. She had agreed in consideration of her treatment that the land would be given on tease for a period of one year to her nephew defendant. The statements of PW1 and PW2 contain a natural flavour and the sequence of events have also been stated in a manner which appeal to the common sense. The learned Additional District Judge has observed that the evidence led by the plaintiff did not inspire confidence. These observations of the learned Additional District Judge are based on conjectures and surmises. His further observation that the evidence led by the defendant about the execution of the lease deed is free from blemish or infirmity is also not based on any substance because it ignores the vital fact that there was no consideration for the lease; the consideration recorded in the lease deed is too meager i.e. Rs. 2,500/- per annum for a lease of 99 years as against the lease amount of Rs. 20,000/- p.a. which the plaintiff used to earn from Ramji Lal and Giano. On the face of these facts, I do not think that it can be observed by a reasonable man that the evidence led by the defendant is free from any blemish or infirmity. Moreover, it is wrongly recorded by the Additional District Judge that the plaintiff did not state in her statement that the contents of the deed were not read over to her. PW1, plaintiff, in her statement has categorically testified in the first ten lines that from the suit land she used to earn about Rs. 20,000/- per year from the sons of her husband's brother i.e. Giano and Ramji Lal. The statement made by her is in consonance with her averments made in paragraph 7 of the plaint where she had asserted that no body would lease out the land for an amount of Rs. 2,500/- p.a. for a period of 99 years. The fact that Ramji Lal and Giano used to cultivate the land is come out from the Khasra Gidawari, Ex.P4, for the Rabi Crop of November, 1974 and for the Kharif April, 1975. The plaintiff has deposed in her statement that the Sub Registrar or the Scribe never read over the document to her and she was never apprised that the lease deed was being executed for a period of 99 years. It is clear from the record that defendant is son of plaintiffs real brother. On the basis of these facts and findings given by the Courts below, t has to be examined whether the lease deed executed by the plaintiff on 9.2.1976 was executed by her out of free will and volition or it is a document tainted by mis-representation, fraud or undue influence. The names and tags on the documents would not b; material. 18. The judgment of Subhash Chandra 's case (supra) lays down three stages to conclude whether there was undue influence or not. The first stage envisaged by the judgment is that one must ascertain that relations between the parties to each other must be such that one is in a position to dominate the will of the other; secondly, the deed had been induced by undue influence; and thirdly whether the transaction was unconscionable and if it is proved, then the burden of proving that the deed was not induced by undue influence is to He upon the person who was in position to dominate the will of the other. The principle that three stages for consideration of undue influence have to be seen were expounded in the case of Raghunath Prasad v. Sarju Prasad , AIR 1924 PC 60 in the following words:- The above para of the judgment of the Privy Council has been quoted with approval by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Subhash Chandra 's case (supra). 19. On applying the principle laid down in the aforementioned judgments to the facts of the present case, it is crystal clear that the defendant was in a position to dominate the will of the plaintiff for the reason that she used to consult him off and on. Secondly, she was an illiterate, old and sick. For the second stage, the requirement of the law as laid down in the aforementioned judgments is whether the person who was in a position to dominate the will actually exercised his position. The answer to this question in the present case have to be in the affirmative because the defendant took advantage of the illiteracy, sickness and old age to extract the execution of the lease deed from the plaintiff and the contents of the lease deed were never read over to her. The lease deed for 99 years was a virtual sale deed. The third stage namely, the transaction recorded in the lease deed was unconscionable has to be answered in the affirmative because the suit land used to yield Rs. 20,000/- per year to the plaintiff was leased out to the defendant for Rs. 2,500/- per year and that too for a period of 99 years. The lease deed was virtually a sale deed. Therefore, 1 am convinced that there was undue influence exercised by the defendant and the transaction is hit by the provisions of Section 16 of the Contract act, 1872. I am fortified in my view by the judgment of the a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in the case of Ladli Parsad Jaiswal v. The Karnal distillery Co., Ltd. Karnal and Ors., AIR 1963 SC 1279. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court white dealing with the cases where the transaction is vitiated on account of undue influence observed as under:- 20. insofar as the objection of Shri S.C. Kapoor with regard to the absence of pleadings on this question is concerned, 1 am satisfied that even in the absence of actual words 'undue influence' there are sufficient averments in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the plaint and in paras 4 and 7 of the replication. These averments clearly show that the plaintiff was an old, ill and illiterate and she was allured by the defendant with a mala fide intention of usurping her property and that he was guilty of abuse of faith. She has asserted that she never leased out the agricultural property to the defendant for a period of 99 years as recorded in the lease deed by a ridiculously and vowfully amount of Rs.2,500/- p.a. and not a single penny was paid. It has also been asserted in the replication that defendant took undue advantage of a helpless, illiterate and old lady and made her to thumb mark some papers with ulterior motive. In these circumstances, I have no hesitation in rejecting the submission of Shri Kapoor that there is no pleading with regard to undue influence. The observations of the learned Single Judge in Gulian Bibi's case (supra) support the proposition that when fraud, mis-representation or undue influence is alleged by a party in a suit then ordinarily the burden is on him to prove such fraud, undue influence or mis-representation but when such a person like an illiterate widow women is in a fiduciary relationship with another and the latter is in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving absence of fraud, mis-representation and undue influence is upon the person in a dominating position. [Also see Munshu Buzloor Ruhwn v. Shumsoonisa Begum, 1867 M.I.A. 551 (P.C.)]. In that case, the plaintiff was an illiterate Parda Nashin widow and the defendant was her son-in-law who obtained her thumb impression on a sale deed in his own favour representing to her that it was a gift deed in favour of her daughter. Relying on the provisions of Section 16 of the Contract Act, Section 111 of the Evidence Act and Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, it was observed that in such a situation the onus of proof would shift on the person who was in a position to dominate or influence the will of the other. The observations of the court in para 14 are as under:- 21. There is another aspect of the matter. The principles that a party executing a document was completely bound by the whole of the document which he had signed had long been mitigated by the doctrine of non est factum. On the basis of this doctrine, it can be argued that a person who is induced by the false statement of another, and who has signed a written contract that is fundamentally different in character from the one which he envisaged then such a person is competent to say that it is not his document. The doctrine was initially involved by the courts to relieve illiterate or blind people from the effects of a contract which owing to natural infirmities they were unable to read with no fault of theirs or which was not properly explained to them. The principle was accepted in England in the case of Thoroughgood v. Cole, 1582(2) Co. Rep. 9A by the Court of Common Pleas. In that case one William Chicken was in arrears of the rent. He preferred to Mr. Thorough good, the landlord, a deed by which he was relieved from "all demands whatsoever" which Mr. Thoroughgood had against him. Obviously, the exclusion comprised not only arrears of rent, but also the right to recover the land. Thorough good was illiterate, but a bystander picked up the deed and explained "that you do release to William chicken all the arrears of rent that the doth owe you and no otherwise, and thus you shall have your land back again". Thoroughgood signed the deed, after replying, "If it be otherwise, I am content". Subsequently, Mr. Chicken sold the land to an innocent purchaser. Mr. Thoroughgood sued in trespass and recovered his land. It was said by the Court of Common Pleas to be the usual course of pleadings that the defendant was a layman and illiterate and that he had been defrauded of a misrepresented recital of the contents of the deed. The principle laid down in Thoroughgood's case (supra) was further expounded in the case of Foster v. Mackinnon,1869 L.R. 4 C.P. 704 where the defendant was induced to sign the back of a paper, the face of which was covered and was not shown to him. He was told that it was an ordinary guarantee the like of which he had signed before and under which no liability came to him when, in fact, the paper was a bill of exchange. He was sued by the plaintiff, a holder in due course, as an endorser. Byles J. observed in his oft-quoted judgment as under:- 22. In Sannibibi v. Siddik Hussain, AIR 1919 Cal. 728 the plaintiffs asked for cancellation of a sale deed of land on the ground that they had signed it on the representation that it was jimba nama for their maintenance for a term of three years. It was held that the document was void ab initio, as there was no consent at all to the sale deed. Approving the judgments of Thoroughgood's case (supra) and Mackinnon's case (supra) Newbound and Paton JJ. observed as under:- 23. However, where a deed is not of a different character a contract it used to be voidable only and not void ab initio. Thus, where a husband obtained the signature of his wife to a deed of gift without making any misrepresentation as to its character, but subsequently included two more plots in the deed it was held by the Supreme Court that the transaction was only voidable and not void. In case of Ningawa v. Byrappa Hirekurahar , AIR 1968 SC 956, Their Lordships of the Supreme Court relying on Foster v. Mackinnon's case (supra) observed: 24. What should be the degree of difference between the actual document and what the signer believed it to be? On this problem, the Courts in England as well as in India until recently had been guided by the principles laid down in the case of Thoroughgood (supra) and Foster v. Mackinnon (supra). This case laid down, inter alia, that to ground the plea of non est facutum there should be a mistake as to the character as against the contents of the document. A contract was considered void where the mistake had been as to character and voidable where it was as to its contents. 25. To the same effect are the Queen's Bench decisions in Lewis v. Clay, 1897(67) L.J. Q.B. 224 and Muskham Finance Ltd. v. Howard, 1963(1) Q.B. 904. 26. The principle that a distinction between character or nature and contents or details may determine whether the contract is to be void or voidable held ground for about one century with small variations in emphasis. But the distinction has been held to be no longer decisive. It is stated not to be an intelligible one for a document takes its character from its contents. This approach found support in England in the leading case of Sounders v. Anglia Building Society. 1970(3) All ER 961 decided by the House of Lords. The appellant in this case was the executrix of one Mrs. Rose Maud Gallie, who executed a deed which she believed was gift of her house to her affectionate nephew Parkin but which was in fact an assignment of sale of the house of one Lee for British Pond 3,000 (the money was never paid). Lee mortgaged the property to the respondents for British Pond 2,000 but defaulted on mortgage instalments. The Building Society claimed possession of the house. Gallie began an action asking for a declaration that the assignment was void, She pleaded non est factum on the ground that she had broken her spectacles and did not read the document but signed it on the faith of the representation made to her by Lee. But the plea failed. The House of Lords affirming the decision of the Court of Appeal held that she was bound by the contract. It was only voidable by reason of the misstatements made by Lee that too was not allowed for it was too late once the Building Society had advanced a sum on the house in good faith. 27. The House of Lords further held that the distinction between character or nature and contents or details WPS no longer decisive because it has been difficult to apply in practice. After all a document takes its character from its contents. Lord Denning M.R. in Gallic v. Lee, 1969(2) Ch. 17 in the Court of appeal observed that the execution of a deed of gift, for British Pond 10,000 which the donor was led to believe was a deed of gift for British Pond 100 (British Pond 10) and would involve a mistake as to contents, and no mistake as to the technical legal nature of the instrument. It would still be a mistake as to the class and character of the transaction basing the plea of non est factum. This approach has been approved by Lords Hodson and Reld in the House of Lords. The traditional distinctions as to "character and nature" or "class and character" of the transaction do not refer to the technical legal nature of the transaction - as a gift, a loan, or a transfer and the like, or even mistaking the identity of the other party. Secondly, the doctrine if applied rigidly is likely to produce unreasonable results, after a detailed examination Julius Stone in his stimulating Articles "The Limits of Non Est Factum After Gallie v. Lee, 1972(88) LQR 190 at 197 concluded that "the distinction between 'class and character' and 'contents' offered by the cases is in the area of overlap meaningless and it does not 'make sense'. 28. The Supreme Court while considering Foster v. Mackinnon case (supra) in Ningawa v. Byrappa Hirekuraba, AIR 1968 SC 956 concluded on the facts that where a husband obtained the signature of his wife to a gift deed of land without making any misrepresentation as to its character but subsequently included two more plots in the deed, the transaction was only voidable and not void. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed as under:- The above distinction drawn by various Courts in England before the judgment rendered in the case of Saunders (supra) and of the Supreme Court in the case of Ningawa (supra) was not approved by the Supreme Court in the case of Smt. Bismillah v. Janeshwar Prasad, AIR 1990 SC 540. The distinction between the character of a document and the contents of the document stands abrogated in Bismillah's case (supra). In that case Smt. Bismillah challenged the validity of sale deeds concerning agricultural land executed by her agent. The ground for invalidation of the sale deed was that the agents were not authorised to do so and in the suit filed by her it was asserted that a clause in the instrument of agency drafted in Hindi had been incorporated by the agent which she never authorised nor she knew Hindi language, as a consequence of declaration concerning invalidation of sale deeds possession of the agricultural land was also claimed. A preliminary objection was raised to the maintainability of the suit by pleading Section 331 of the U.P. Zamidari Abolition and Reforms Act, 1951 and it was argued that filing of the suit was barred and the Civil Court had no jurisdiction. The preliminary objection having been sustained by the Allahabad High Court, the appeal was filed by Smt. Bismillah before the Supreme Court. Reversing the view taken by the High Court, their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed as under:- Authorities drew a distinction between fraudulent misrepresentation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as not the contents thereof. It was held that the defence was available only if the mistake was as to the very nature of character of the transaction. In Foster v. Mackinnon, 1869 L.R. 4 CP 704 (supra), Mackinnon, the defendant was induced to endorse a bill of exchange on the false representation that it was a guarantee similar to one he had signed on a previous occasion. He was held not liable when sued even by an innocent endorsee of the bill. Byles, J. said: This decision was referred to with approval by this Court in Ningawa v. Byrappa , in 1968(2) SCR 797 : AIR 1968 SC 956. It was observed: However the distinction based on the character of the document and the contents of the document was considered unsatisfactory. The distinction based on the character and contents of a document is not without its difficulties in its practical application; for, inconceivable cases the 'Character' of the document may itself depend on its contents. The difficulty is to be resolved on a case by case basis on the facts of each case and not by appealing to any principle of general validity applicable to cases. Chitty on Contracts (General Principles, 25th Edition, Para 343) has this observation to make on Saunders' decision: 29. The principle of non est factum as discernible from the various judgments when applied to the facts of the present case, it becomes clear that the character of the document itself underwent a change. The intention of thumb marking of the document by Smt. Hameol, plaintiff was to consent for lease for a period of one year and not for a lease that was for a period of 99 years. It is probably for this reason that their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Bismillah's case (supra) has left a latitude by bridging up the distinction based on the character and the contract of the document, at the cost of repetition, the observations of Lord Denning M.R. in Gallie v. Lee's case (supra) may once again be referred. Speaking for the Court of Appeal, Lord Denning observed that execution of deed of a gift for British Pond 10,000/- which the donor led to believe was a deed of British Pond 100 would involve a mistake as to the contents and no mistake as to the nature of the instrument. It would still be a mistake as to the class and character of the transaction to raise the plea of non est factum. On the strength of these principles, the lease deed executed by the plaintiff cannot be considered to have been executed in the belief of mistake to the contents alone but, it was a mistake which was as to the character of the document. Therefore, the signatures of the plaintiff on the document can only be considered for a period of one year. On this additional plea also, this appeal deserves to be allowed. 30. From the various principles discussed above, it is crystal clear that the onus to prove the absence of mis-representation, fraud or undue influence was on the defendant which he has miserably failed to discharge. There is no evidence to show as to why the agricultural land measuring 241 kanals 12 marlas was given on lease for a period of 99 years and that too at a meager rent of Rs. 2,500/- per annum when the same land used to earn Rs. 20,000/- p.a. from Ramji Lal and Giano. There is also no evidence to show why there was no consideration paid for the lease executed for a period of 99 years. The defendant has failed to discharge the heavy onus of proving that the transaction was bona fide and there was no mis-representation, fraud or undue influence. 31. For the reasons recorded above, this appeal is allowed and it is held that the
plaintiff Hamelo intended to sign the lease deed for a period of one year only and never
intended to sign the same for a period of 99 years. The lease deed dated 9.2.1976 to that
extent is declared to be illegal and unenforceable. The suit of the plaintiff is decreed and
mandatory injunction is issued to defendant to restore back the possession of the land to
the plaintiff within a period of two months from the date of receipt of certified copy of
this order. Defendant shall pay back all the benefits which have accrued to him from the
illegal possession of the land to the plaintiff from the expiry of period of one year i.e.
9.2.1977. However, in view of the serious controversy on the legal issue involved, I
leave the parties to bear their own costs.