The Issue 1. Grievance in this application is against failure to prevent illegal

mining, discharge of sewage and dumping of solid waste into river Doodh

Ganga and Mamath Kull in violation of provisions of the Water

(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 , judgments of the Hon'ble 1 Supreme Court dated 22.02.2017 inter alia in Paryavaran Suraksha

 Samiti Vs. Union of India1 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. 2. Case set out in the application is that Doodh Ganga is a tributary

 of the Jhelum River. It originates from Pir Panjaal Mountain and

 thereafter passing through number of villages and towns up-stream to

 down-stream like Sogam, Chadoora, Wathora, Kralpora, Bagh-e-Mehtab,

 Channapora, Natipora, Barzulla, Bulbul Bagh, it merges into Hoker Sar

 Lake, at Lawaypora, Narbal and eventually meets the Jhelum River.

 Mamath Kull also originates from Pir Panjal Mountains and after passing

 through number of villages in Budgam District, enters the Mamath

 Village which is 1 km away from the stream and thereafter first enters the

 Hokersar Lake and eventually meets the Jhelum River. Rivers Doodh

 Ganga and Mamath Kull have been subjected to pollution from pesticides

 from Apple Orchards, discharge of untreated sewage and dumping of

 municipal solid wastes from the area falling under Srinagar Municipal

 Corporation and Municipal Committee of Budgam. 3. Precise submissions been set out in the application are as follows:- 1 (2017) 5 SCC 326 2 c) Till date no STPs has been established by the Srinagar
 Municipal Corporation or any other Government Body in the
 entire stretch around river Doodh Ganga as a result of which
 all the untreated sewage from residentials, commercial
 establishments, shopping malls, butcher houses, poultry
 shops, laboratories, diagnostic centres and domestic sewage
 are directly discharged into the river without any scientific
 treatment. d) A large number of Municipal Solid Wastes are unscientifically
 dumped on the banks of river Doodh Ganga and during the
 present rainy season there is a grave danger of the entire
 waste to be flowing into the river which is a tributary to River
 Jhelum. e) A large amount of municipal solid wastes are being dumped
 unscientifically on the banks of the Mamath Kull stream by the
 Municipal Committee of Budgam. There is a grave danger of
 the entire waste to be flowing into the stream which eventually
 meets River Jhelum, thereby causing major environmental
 degradation." 4. The areas where untreated sewage is being discharged are

mentioned to be as follows: 5. In support of above, the applicant has filed photographs and a

report of the applicant published in Greater Kashmir titled "SMC

converting Doodh Ganga into a drain". The applicant has also filed copies

of letters of the State PCB addressed to the Srinagar Municipal

Corporation against dewatering stations having potential to pollute water.

The applicant has also annexed representation dated 11.08.2021

addressed to the Chief Secretary, J&K, Member Secretary, J&K Pollution

Control Committee, Member Secretary, CPC B, Commissioner, Srinagar

Municipal Corporation, Director, Urban Local Bodies, Kashmir, Deputy

Commissioners Srinagar and Budgam. The applicant has also relied upon 4 letter dated 10.09.2021 from Regional Director, J&K PCC to the Member

Secretary, J&K PCC stating that on analysis of water samples, discharge

of pollution in the rivers was established. The letter is reproduced below: Procedural History - earlier orders dated 18.10.2021 and 8.3.2022 6. The matter was earlier considered on 18.10.2021 in light of above

averments and materials. The Tribunal found prima facie violation of

environmental norms showing failure of statutory regulators in taking 5 remedial action. Accordingly, the Tribunal directed remedial action in

accordance with the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated

22.02.2017 in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti Vs. Union of India , (2017) 5

SCC 326 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. The operative part of

the order is reproduced below:- 7. Thereafter, the matter was considered on 08.03.2022 in the light of

report of joint Committee dated 14.01.2022 acknowledging the violations

but not showing any meaningful steps to remedy the same. The Tribunal 6 accordingly held that remedial action was required to be taken. The water

quality of Doodh Ganga had deteriorated at downstream locations due to

unregulated discharge of raw sewage and other pollutants. Similar was

the position of Mamath Kull river. The Tribunal accordingly directed the

Chief Secretary, J&K to take remedial action by coordinating with the

concerned Departments to prevent dumping of solid waste and discharge

of untreated sewage, illegal mining and also removal of legacy waste. The

State was also held liable to pay interim compensation of Rs. 3 Crores to

be spent for restoration. The amount was to be deposited with the

District Magistrate, Budgam. An action taken report was required to be

filed and Principal Secretary was required to remain present in person by

VC for interaction. Relevant extracts from the said order are reproduced

below:- The MC Budgam and MC Chadoora have taken measures to
ensure strict prohibition for illegal dumping of waste on the
banks of River Doodh Ganga and Mammath Kull. Special
teams have been constituted to keep strict vigil and ensure
that no waste is dumped within 500 meters of the banks of
water bodies. Copy enclosed as Annexure

All municipalities are collecting 100% waste from the
households through Door to Door collection. At present,
segregation is being done in (32) wards and processing in
respect of (9) wards. Once the SWM facilities approved in
respect of every MC are established, the segregation of waste
as per the provisions of SWM Rules, 2016 would be observed
in letter and spirit. The Municipalities have been asked to identify the bulk
generators, existing in their respective towns. The number of
rag pickers has been raised from 64 to 137 in last fifteen
days. The municipalities ensuring prohibition of illegal dumping of
construction material on roadsides etc. However, usually the
demolition waste generated from the constructions is being
utilized by the inhabitants for earth filling etc.

After the establishment of Solid Waste Management facilities
in all towns, the process of composting/ RDF would definitely
yield income for the concerned MC's. Strict vigil is being kept to prevent Illegal
constructions/encroachments in all (40) ULBs. The
Municipalities are submitting weekly reports on every
Saturday countersigned by concerned elected ward member,
certifying therein that no encroachment/ illegal construction
has taken place in their areas of jurisdiction. Demolition
drives are being conducted by the ULBs in case of violations. 9 Special Sunday drives are being conducted by the
 Municipal Councils/ Committees, in which huge quantity of
 waste has been removed from the water bodies. Besides,
 ULBs have been directed to formulate of DPRs for
 preservation/ conservation of water bodies of their
 respective areas. Water body cleanliness drive
 photographs enclosed Annexure-C.

 The waste dumped on the banks of Mammath Kull and Doodh
 Ganga Nallah has been removed by concerned MC's. The MC
 Budgam has removed around 50 MTs of waste and MC
 Chadoora has removed 60MTs of waste, which includes bio-
 degradable as well non bio-degradable waste. Photographs
 are attached. So far, Legacy waste has been identified in five towns viz.
 MC Bijbehara, MC Kulgam, MC Shopian, MC Baramulla and
 MC Pampore for which the contour mapping has been
 recently completed and process has been started for
 tendering of the job. The tender document is being prepared
 by the recently established PMU as per the approved action
 plan. The ULB-wise details of the contour mapped/
 quantified legacy waste in given in the enclosed Annexure
 "D". Sites have already been identified for establishment of Solid
 waste Management facilities in all towns. The details of
 sites identified in respect of ULBs of District Budgam is
 given as under:- In order to redress the issue of handling/ managing and
 disposal of waste generated in the towns of Kashmir
 Division, the State Level Apex Committee in its meeting held
 on 16/03/202 lunder the chairmanship of Chief Secretary of
 J&K UT approved decentralised Solid Waste Management
 Action plan for all 76 Urban Local Bodies of J&K UT. Under
 the said Action plan, the following decentralised
 technologies have been approved for implementation:- 10 191.67 Crores. The municipality-wise details of beak-up
 of type and capacity of facilities are given in the statement
 enclosed as Annexure "E". The DPR's have been prepared in respect of (20) ULBs and
 authorization for tendering has been conveyed to (17) ULBs so
 far. The ULB-wise details status of District Budgam is given as
 under:- The DPR of the MC Magam is under preparation and
 tendering has been initiated at, MC Chadoora. The above land
 parcels are in possession of concerned Municipal
 Committes/Councils. The Facilities shall be created within a
 period of 12 months

 The Budgam and Chadoora towns being the important
 towns of Central Kashmir and to ensure the restoration and
 preservation the prestigious water bodies of Doodh Ganga
 and Mamath Kull, comprehensive Solid Waste Management
 facilities have been approved for Budgam town at the cost
 of Rs. 299.47 Lakhs at PallarBudgam with two Waste
 Management Centers of 5 TPD capacity and for the
 Chadoora town at Hayatpora at the cost of Rs 124.38
 Lakhs consisting of 01 Waste Management Centers of 4
 TPD capacity

 The Waste generation details of two towns viz. Municipal
 Council Budgam & Municipal Committee Chadoora are as
 under:- 11 For proper and effective implementation of Solid Waste
 Management Action plan, a dedicated Project Management
 Unit has already been engaged by the Department and the
 PMU has started its work and recently two site visits of MC
 Baramulla/ Sopore have been conducted by the PMU and two
 meetings have also been taken in the Directorate in respect of
 the integrated SWM facilities of Anantnag and
 Baramulla/Sopore towns. The project envisages multiple activities/ measures for
 waste management/ disposal viz. Establishment Door to
 Door collection of Solid Waste for its proper disposal,
 prohibition of dumping of solid and other waste near the
 banks of rivers, collection and segregation of waste as per
 SWM Rules, Compliance of SWM Rules by bulk generators,
 Recycling of waste, management and disposal of C&D
 waste, Removal & disposal of legacy waste dumped near
 river banks, Environmental awareness campaigns and
 sensitization of the inhabitants to prevent dumping of waste
 into or near the water bodies. C. AWARENESS ACTIVITIES

 Environmental awareness is being created among the
 communities and people are being educated about the
 hazards and ill effects associated with the pollution of water
 bodies. An amount of Rs. 568.12 Lakhs has been released
 to ULBs for IEC activities and an amount of Rs. 9.50 Lakhs
 has been provided for installation of Sign boards on the banks
 of water bodies. Awareness generated through
 announcements, public interactions and media. Some
 photographs of Sign Boards are enclosed as Annexure "F". 12 Sustainable awareness campaigns are being organized by
 all Municipal Councils/ Committees to create awareness
 among the public particularly in the vicinity of water bodies.
 The teams have been constituted by the Municipal
 Councils/ Committees to keep strict vigil to prevent dumping
 of waste into water bodies/ drains etc. Photographs of
 some water bodies are enclosed as Annexure "G". D. REGULATION OF MINING ACTIVITIES

 Two mineral blocks 11/bud and 12/bud in Doodh Ganga
 Nallah have been e-auctioned by the District Level Auctioned
 Committee, Budgam. Presently. the extraction from both the
 blocks is being carried out in a controlled and scientific
 manner in accordance with the approved mining plans,
 environmental clearances and consent to operate issued by
 PCC. The extraction is limited upto 1 mtr. depth as per the
 approved mining plan. Checkpoints have been established at
 the exit of both the mineral blocks where officials have been
 deployed to monitor the extraction and transportation of
 minerals. No illegal extraction is being allowed anywhere in the
 adjacent areas of nallah. Whenever complaints is received
 about illegal extraction, prompt action is taken against the
 same. So far, 27 vehicles/machines found involved in illegal
 extraction and transportation of minor minerals in the areas
 were seized and penalty of Rs.3,41,060/- has been realized
 from offenders. Besides, registration of FIR's against the
 persons involved in illegal extraction. Extraction of minor minerals from Mamath Kull has been
 completely stopped after the only exit point near Mamath
 Bridge was disrupted. Plantation drives have been conducted by the ULBs and
 target of 25000 plantation has been fixed by the Department
 for reducing the pollution and enhancing beautification.

 Some photographs of the plantation drives conducted at Uri,
 Ganderbal & Dooru-Verinag are enclosed as Annexure "H"." 11. The report shows that the water quality of Doodh ganga has
deteriorated in downstream locations. The relevant extract from the
report is reproduced below: The analysis of samples collected from Doodh Ganga at
 different locations indicate that water in upstream locations
 i.e. at Sogam and Chadoora meet the prescribed
 permissible limit for 'Class B' (Out door Bathing
 Organised) criteria in terms of analysed physico-
 chemical parameters, whereas in the lower course of
 river i.e, at Bagh-e-Mehtaab, at Old Barzulla and Near
 Tengpora, the water quality does not confirm 'Class B'
 Criteria for parameters viz Dissolved Oxygen and
 Biochemical Oxygen demand. Comparatively inferior
 quality in the lower course of river can be attributed to
 addition of sewage/domestic waste into the water body. The observed Total Coliform levels do not meet the
 prescribed permissible limit for 'Class B' (Out door
 Bathing Organised) at Baghi-e- Mehtaab and Tengpora."

 However, Committee does not appear to have collected and

analysed the samples for Pesticides. 14 12. The report of the Additional Secretary has not given the status
of Mamath Kull river. Though water quality is said to be meeting
primary water quality criteria, the issue of dumping of solid waste on
the banks of Mamath Kull remains unaddressed. The relevant
extract from the report is reproduced below: xxx.........................................xxx........................................xxx 14. We find that neither the dumping of solid waste nor discharge
 of untreated sewage has been prevented nor illegal mining stopped
 and nor legacy waste cleared for which statutory timelines have
 already expired. The State is accordingly held liable to pay
 interim compensation of Rs. One crore each under all the
 three heads which may be deposited in a separate account to
 be utilized for restoration of environment. The amount may be
 deposited with the District Magistrate, Budgam and spent as
 per plan approved by the Chief Secretary, consistent with the
 District Action Plan of the concerned area. It will be open to the State
 to recover the amount from the polluters/erring officers in accordance
 with law. For illegal mining, the loss caused to the State in the form
 of value of minerals as well as the loss caused to the environment for
 undertaking such activity without requisite clearances needs to be
 recovered by the State PCB in light of judgment of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court inter-alia in Goa Foundation v Union of India & Ors.
 (2014) 6 SCC 590 and Common Cause Vs. UOI & Ors., (2017) 9 SCC 499. It is also open to the State PCB to initiate prosecution against
 the violators. 15. An action taken report may be filed before the Tribunal by the
 Chief Secretary personally, after interaction with the concerned
 officers within three months by e-mail at [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF and not
 in the form of Image PDF. The report may specify status of facilities
 to treat sewage as well as fecal sludges, protection of flood plain,
 lifting of waste from the banks of Doodh ganga and Mamath Kull to
 the identified sites and processing it as per MSW rules, cow dung
 management and other associated issues. In view of large scale
 continuing violations, we consider it appropriate to direct that the
 Principal Secretary, Urban Development, J&K to remain present in
 person on the next date by Video Conferencing for interaction."

Action taken report filed on 24.06.2022 by J & K Govt. 8. In pursuance of above, an action taken report has been filed on

24.06.2022 showing that untreated sewage is still being discharged into

the rivers. A part of legacy waste has been removed but there is nothing

to show that the same has been scientifically processed/handled. Illegal

mining is said to have been stopped. It is stated that restoration 16 measures will require Rs. 30.85 Crores for development of green belts

and soil erosion control measures on the embankments of river Doodh

Ganga/Mamath Kull covering a total length of 42 Kms. The said damage

appears to be direct result of illegal mining. It is further stated that for

beautification of embankments from Doodh Ganga Nallah from Branwar

upto Railway Bridge Bagh-i-Mehtab further amounts of Rs. 5.82 Crores

will be required. Action taken against illegal mining is lodging FIRs,

dismantling of approach roads, seizing of tools/ equipments/

vehicles/JCBs, 36 vehicles were seized which were involved in illegal

extraction/transportation of minerals with collection of Rs. 4,53,338 as

compounding/penalty from the offenders. Relevant part of the report is

reproduced below:- ii) That the sewerage treatment of Doodh Ganga Nallah from
 Bemina to Baghi- Mehtab, Srinagar was already been
 reflected in the DPR submitted to the JICA for an amount of
 Rs. 964.48 Corers. However, due to delay in the sanctioning
 of the project by JICA and in view of the directions of Hon'ble
 National Green Tribunal, a fresh DPR for Doodh Ganga from
 Bemina to Bagh-i-Mehtab has been prepared by the
 Srinagar Municipal Corporation in consultation with
 Chief Engineer UEED to the tune of Rs. 59.13 Crore
 covering a population of 2.66 Lac by 2052 with the
 capacity of 12.24 MLD. The DPR proposes to construct
 Sewerage Treatment Plants for treatment of untreated
 Sewage coming out from these dewatering stations for
 the following areas within the jurisdiction of SMC
 tabulated below:- iii) The total sewrage generation on Doodh Ganga beyond Baghi
 Mehtab under the jurisdiction of urban local bodies,
 Kashmir is 4.30 MLD and all this untreated sewage is now
 proposed to be treated by way of Sewage Treatment
 Plants. The Project Feasibility Report for sewerage
 treatment beyond Bagh-e-Mehtab has also been framed for
 an amount of Rs. 89.34 crores covering a population of
 0.53 lacs by 2037 with the design discharge of 4.3 MLD 18 capacity with proposed STP at Kralpora including
 intermediate pumping stations, through the existing
 consultant by increasing the scope of his contract for areas
 within the jurisdiction of Urban Local Bodies, Kashmir i.e,
 Chadoora Town, Kral Pora, Moochu, Soigam, Hanji Gund,
 Batpora, Sheikh Pora, Chana Mohalla. The said PFR have
 been submitted for technical vetting to IIT, Roorkee. The
 areas proposed to be covered with treatment of Sewerage
 and DWF Discharging into Doodh Ganga Nallah from Baghi
 Mehtab to Chadoora is tabulated below:- National Green Tribunal with regard to Sewerage Management 19 are being addressed with the establishment of STPs, laying of
 sewerage network and connections and treatment of waste
 water. A copy of the letter dated 31/05/2022 received from
 Chief Engineer, UEED is enclosed as Annexu re R-4. v) That the Srinagar Municipal Corporation and Urban Local
 Bodies are responsible for management of Solid Waste
 alongside the bank of river Doodh Ganga and Mamath Kull
 within their jurisdictions. vi) That in order to redress the issue of handling/ managing and
 disposal of waste generated in all the 78 Urban Local Bodies,
 of UT of J&K, the State Level Apex Committee in its meeting
 held on 16-03-2021 and 30-07-2021 under the chairmanship
 of Chief Secretary of J&K UT approved the Capex under
 decentralised Solid Waste Management Action Plan for an
 amount of Rs. 648.00 Cr. vii) That the overall cost of the project for (40) ULBs of Kashmir
 Division for establishment of decentralized facilities is Rs.
 191.67 Crores. The Budgam and Chadoora towns being the
 important towns of Central Kashmir and to ensure the
 restoration and preservation of the prestigious water bodies of
 Doodh Ganga and Mamath Kull, comprehensive Solid Waste
 Management facilities have been approved for Budgam town
 at the cost of Rs. 299.47 Lakhs at Pallar Budgam with two
 Waste Management Centers of 5 TPD capacity and for
 Chadoora town at Hayatpora at the cost of Rs 124.38 Lakhs
 consisting of 01 Waste Management Center of 4 TPD capacity.
 The work on the project has been started by way of
 construction of Waste Management Centre at the site. viii) That the Waste generation details of two towns viz. Municipal
 Council Budgam & Municipal Committee Chadoora as given
 hereunder: the process for procurement of collection and transportation
 infrastructure through State Motor Garages J&K and in the
 first phase (107) sanitation vehicles (Hoppers) have been
 procured, out of which 04 Hoopers are provided to Municipal
 Council Budgam and MC Chadoora is already having the
 requisite vehicles in place for door to door
 collection/segregation of waste. x) That for proper and effective implementation Solid Waste
 Management Action plan, a dedicated Project Management
 Unit has already been engaged by the Department for effective
 implementation of Solid Waste Management. The PMU is
 operating from the Directorate and have visited the sites
 identified for establishment of SWM facilities in Budgam and
 Chadoora towns; xi) That to prevent the open littering of waste by the households,
 MC Budgam has distributed about 1700 Dustbins in the town
 and MC Chadoora has also distributed about 1500 Dustbins
 during the current financial year at different intervals. xii) That Doodh Ganga also known as Chatche Kull passes
 through the Chadoora Town and around two (02) Kilometers
 of stretch of Doodh Ganga traverses the town. The main
 source of pollution of Nallah Doodh Ganga has been
 observed as waste from residential houses located near the
 banks of Nallah, and effluents from restaurants Hotels and
 Work Shops, dumping of refuse by the local inhabitants, for
 which the Municipal Committee Chadoora has taken action
 and the waste scattered on the banks of Nallah Doodh
 Ganga has been removed. About 90 MTs of legacy Waste has
 been removed from the banks of Doodh. Ganga using men
 and machinery of Municipal Committee Chadoora falling
 within the jurisdiction of MC Chadoora and at present there
 is no waste lying on the banks of Doodh Ganga within
 jurisdiction of MC Chadoora. 21 xiii) That Banners/digital sign boards at various locations
 including banks of Nallah Doodh Ganga have been
 installed for awareness of general public, also
 announcements were made on public address system
 regarding cleanness of Doodh Ganga, Masjid Committees/
 Auqaf Committee of town Chadoora were also requested to
 make general public aware about the importance of
 cleanness of water body. Special teams have been constituted by MC Chadoora to
 keep strict vigil on the encroachments of banks of Nallah
 and littering of waste by the inhabitants. Municipal
 Committee Chadoora has conducted plantation drives in
 collaboration with Social Forestry Department on the banks
 of the Nallah to avoid its erosion. The issue regarding
 construction of Sewage treatment plants of adequate
 capacity had been taken up with the UEED Department.
 During last few days, the Vigilance teams of MC Chadoora
 have imposed fine on (08) violators of Rs. 4500/- and three
 No. of FIRs have also been filed against the violators to
 serve a deterrent to the violators. Around 116 ton of garbage
 have been lifted during the year 2021-22, 2022-23. xiv) That the Mamath Kull passes through the Budgam town and
 the main source of pollution has been identified as littering of
 waste by people living in the vicinity of the water body into
 the Kull and on its banks, for which the MC Budgam has
 taken strict measures to have a total prohibition of illegal
 dumping and disposal of Solid Waste along the banks of
 Maminat Kull. A special team has been constituted to ensure
 strict prohibition of dumping of garbage/Solid Waste/ Single
 Use Plastic within 500 metres of the banks of the Kull,
 besides, imposition of fine upon the violators as per the
 provisions of SWM Rule, 2016_ The constituted teams have
 been patrolling in the area frequently and during last few
 days 8 violators have been imposed fines and Flits have also
 been filed against the violators to disseminate a strict
 message among the public. The cleaning of Mamath Kull has
 been undertaken by Municipal Council Budgam. The Digital
 Displays have been installed/ erected at different places
 from New Adda to Old Adda in order to create awareness in 22 general public. 100% percent door to door collection has been
 achieved in all the wards of the Town. xv) That the Srinagar Municipal Corporation is practicing 100%
 door to door waste collection throughout the city including from
 the households putting up on both sides of Doodh Ganga canal
 from Bagh-i-Mehtab to Hokarsar. All the waste deposited on
 the banks of the Doodh Ganga has been removed and cleared
 and there is no solid waste accumulated anywhere in the
 Nallah in the SMC jurisdiction. One major waste collection
 point was setup near the Baghi-Mehtab area. The said waste
 collection point has been closed down and a public park has
 been decided to be constructed there. Strict action is being
 taken against the offenders who are being found littering the
 Doodh Ganga Canal. An amount of Rs. 181,000/- has been
 recovered from 55 offenders who were found littering the
 Doodh Ganga from 19/12/2021 to 19/5/2022. A detailed list
 is enclosed herewith as Annexure-R-5. xvi) That the photographs of some activities undertaken by
 Srinagar Municipal Corporation, Municipal Committee
 Chadoora and Municipal Council Budgam are enclosed as
 Annexure R-6. xvii) That the Director Soil and Water Conservation, Forest,
 Ecology & Environment Department has submitted a
 proposal for development of green belts and soil erosion
 control measures on the embankments of river Doodh
 GangalMamath Kull covering a total leNational Green
 Tribunalh of 42 Kms. over a period of 5 years for an amount
 of Rs. 30.85 Crore. However, during the current year, the
 preliminary working plan for first phase has been prepared
 by the Director, Soil & Water Conservation, Forest Ecology
 and Environment Department for an amount of Rs. 5.82
 Crore for beautification of embankments from Doodh Ganga
 Nallah from Branwar up to Railway Bridge, Bagh-i-Mehtab
 and further extended up to Bemina against which a provision
 of Rs. 2.00 Crore has already been kept in the Capex
 Budget. The site specific micro plans for the works proposed
 are being prepared by ground truthing and shall be finalized
 in collaboration with irrigation and flood control department.
 The details showing abstract costs of each work and District 23 wise activities against this annual plan are given in
 Annexure "R-7 & R-8". xviii) That Prior to 2016, the extraction of river bed material from
 Doodh Ganga was allowed and governed by J&K Minor
 Mineral Concession Rules, 1962 where under the provision of
 Short Tem Permit on advance payment of royalty was allotted
 for a specific period of time. With the notification of "The J&K
 Minor Mineral Concession, Storage, Transportation of
 Minerals and Prevention of Illegal Mining Rules, 2016" vide
 SRO-105 dated; 31st of March 2016," the Department of
 Geology & Mining identified 03 number of the minor mineral
 blocks in Doodh Ganga Nallah in an environmentally viable
 areas for e-auction viz-a-viz mineral concession for regulating
 and sustainable mining in the area. xix) Out of 03 identified mineral blocks, 02 blocks were
 successfully e-auctioned through the District Auction
 Committee headed by Concerned Deputy Commissioner. The
 blocks stand leased out to the successful bidders after
 completion of all the statutory clearances like submission of
 approved Mining Plan, valid Environmental Clearances,
 Consent to Operate, from the competent authorities besides
 clearances/NoCs from all the stake holding Departments. The
 mineral blocks are operational and are working as per terms
 and conditions of approved mining plan, EC, CTO and
 Sustainable Sand Mining Guidelines 2016/2020.
 Checkpoints have been established at the exit points of both
 the operational blocks to monitor and regulate the extraction
 and transportation of mineral from the leased blocks.

xx) Extraction of river bed material from the Mamath Kul has
 been completely stopped after the only exit point near
 Mamath Bridge stands closed. Lastly the Dy. Commissioner,
 Budgam Vide Order No. 179 DCB of 2021 dated: 13.07.2021
 constituted multi departmental teams at Sub-Divisional and
 Tehsil Level to curb the illegitimate extraction of minerals in
 the District. xxi) That On the directions of the Dy. Commissioner, Budgam a
 joint inspection of e-auctioned minor mineral blocks, Doodh
 Ganga nalla was carried out on 17.03.2022 by the
 Department of I&FC, Geology & Mining, PHE and Fisheries 24 wherein the committee reported that the extraction of the
 minerals in the leased out blocks has been executed
 systematically & scientifically as per the prescribed
 guidelines. Copy of the report and photographs captured on
 spot are enclosed as Annexure R-9. xxii) The Department takes due cognizance of any reported illegal
 mining activity in the area under reference and stringent
 actions are ensured against the offenders which include
 lodging of FIRs, dismantling of approach roads, seizing of
 tools/equipments/ vehicles/JCBs and compounding under
 Rules. From April 2020 to August 2021, the District Mineral
 Office, Budgam seized 36 vehicles involved in illegal
 extraction/ transportation of minerals with a collection of Rs.
 4, 53, 338 as compounding/ penalty from the offenders.
 Presently no illegal mining takes places in the Doodh Ganga
 Nallah. xxiii) That the Mining Department has given an undertaking that at
 present no illegal mining is taking place. The copy of which is
 annexed as Annexure R-10". 9. With regard to waste management in the State it is stated that

action plan has been prepared for amount Rs. 648 Crores. For sewage

treatment beyond Bagh-e-Mehtab, plan has been prepared for an amount

of Rs. 89.34 Crores. For treatment of Doodh Ganga Nallah from Bemina

to Baghi-Mehtab, Srinagar was already been reflected in the DPR

submitted to the JICA for an amount of Rs. 964.48 Crores. It is further

stated that the total sewage generated from 07 wards of Srinagar

Municipal Corporation forming the catchment of 13 dewatering stations

(10 main & 03 secondary) on the two sides of Doodh Ganga Nallah is

estimated as 16.23 MLD, whereas the untreated sewage falling into the

Doodh Ganga Nallah through these Dewatering stations is 12.25 MLD. 25 The balance sewage of 4.11 MLD gets treated in the septic tanks/soakage

pits. 10. The report also annexes letter dated 22.07.2022 by the Wildlife

Warden addressed to the Irrigation and Flood Department about illegal

mining as follows:- spread over an area of 1354 Hectares' which is a RAMSAR site of
 international importance and every year during inters, millions of
 Migratory birds from different parts of the world visit this precious
 wetland which is also known as Queen of Wetlands. Further,
 excessive extraction of mining will badly affect not only the flow and
 quality but also other characteristics of the said Wetland
 Conservation Reserve." Comments of the applicant on the report 11. Comments of the applicant on the report are as follows:- A Copy of the notice dated 22.07.2022 sent by the Wildlife Warden,
Wetlands Division Kashmir to the Irrigation and Flood Control
Department is annexed herewith as Annexure A/3.

e. That the Applicant in this regard also submits that Geology and
Mining Department of Kashmir has categorically issued directions
and clarifications regarding the monsoon period in light of the
Kashmir Climate which states that the „Normal date of Onset of
South-West Monsoon‟ is 1st July and the „Normal date of Withdrawal
of South-West Monsoon‟ is 15th September in UT of Jammu and
Kashmir as defined by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD)
Nagpur vide letter dated 18.01.2016 for each States to adhere with.
Furthermore, the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, Directorate of
Geology and Mining has also issued a Circular dated 02.08.2022
which referred to Para 8.1 (vii) of Enforcement & Monitoring
Guidelines for Sand Mining, 2020 by the MoEF&CC which deals with
the „Pre-requisite for starting Sand Mining operation‟ and specifically
states that "there shall be no river bed mining operation allowed in
monsoon period. The period as defined by IMD Nagpur for each state
shall be adhered with". Thus, the mining taking place in River Doodh
Ganga is completely in violation to the 2020 Guidelines and the
Office Orders of the Geology and Mining Department, Srinagar.

A Copy of the Order dated 15.07.2022 of the Geology and Mining
Department, Srinagar is annexed herewith as Annexure A/4.

A Copy of the Circular of Directorate of geology and Mining, Jammu
dated 02.08.2022 is annexed herewith as Annexure A/5.

e. That this Hon‟ble Tribunal vide order dated 08.03.2022 has
specifically directed: That Applicant here submits that despite specific direction from this
Hon'ble Tribunal, the report of the Chief Secretary dated 24.06.2022
shows no mention about what coercive measures has been taken
against the erring irresponsible officers who not only failed to comply
with the laws and directions of the Tribunal but also placed false
records before this Hon'ble Tribunal in dealing with illegal mining
activities caused in River Doodh Ganga." 29 Consideration by the Tribunal today, finding and directions 12. From the above, it is seen that there are serious lapses on the part

of the Administration in waste management and in failing to control

illegal mining which has resulted in huge damage to the environment and

public health. Remedial action is inadequate on the ground. The same is

more in the nature of future promises without much accountability for

the past failures. While there is no objection to future remedial action

which must be taken, accountability has to be fixed for past violations on

polluter pays principle as laid down in Vellore Citizens case, (1996) 5

SCC 647 and under section 20 read with section 15 of the NGT Act. 13. l16.23 MLD of untreated sewage is being discharged into the Doodh

Ganga drain. About 90 MTs of legacy waste has been removed from the

banks of Doodh Ganga using men and machinery of Municipal

Committee Chadoora which remained unprocessed. Thus, there is

violation of SWM Rules, 2016 which lay down timelines for taking steps

which have already expired without such steps having been taken.

Further, there is violation of judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti Vs. Union of India , supra, requiring steps for

setting up of necessary STPs within timeline mentioned therein which

have expired. Huge damage has been caused by illegal mining but beyond

stopping illegal mining and recovering small amount, compensation

commensurate with the damage already caused has not been recovered. 30 We refer to earlier order dated 08.03.2022 on the subject which is as

follows:- "14.xxx........For illegal mining, the loss caused to the State in the
 form of value of minerals as well as the loss caused to the
 environment for undertaking such activity without requisite
 clearances needs to be recovered by the State PCB in light of
 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court inter-alia in Goa Foundation
 v Union of India & Ors. ( 2014) 6 SCC 590 and Common Cause Vs.
 UOI & Ors. , (2017) 9 SCC 499. It is also open to the State PCB to
 initiate prosecution against the violators." 14. There is nothing to show that compensation recovered covers the

cost of restoration with deterrent element having regard to the value of

illegal mining. The State PCB in coordination with the concerned

Departments may take further action in this regard failing which the

State itself will be liable to pay compensation for failing to perform its

duties. 15. The above discussion shows that there still exist huge gaps in

management of solid and liquid waste even after 8 years of monitoring by

this Tribunal after order of Hon'ble Supreme Court on 2.9.2014 in

Almitra Patel, supra and more than 5 years after order of Hon'ble

Supreme Court dated 22.2.2107 in Paryavaran Suraksha.

Need to consider change in approach for administrative processes 16. There appears to be need for change in approach in realizing that

remedial action cannot wait for indefinite period nor loose ended time

lines without accountability can be a solution. Responsibility of the State 31 is to have comprehensive time bound plan with tied up resources to

control pollution which is its absolute liability. If there is deficit in

budgetary allocations, it is for the State alone to have suitable planning

by reducing cost or augmenting resources. People must be involved in the

problem by appropriate awareness and strategies to encourage public

participation and contribution. At the cost of repetition, health issues

cannot be deferred to long future. Long future dates breach of which has

taken place frequently in the past without accountability is not a

convincing solution. It is poor substitute for compliance within laid down

timelines for long past. This approach may project lack of concern or not

realizing the grim ground situation crying for emergent remedial

measures on priority. There is no time for leisure, reflected in timelines

proposed for bridging the acknowledged gaps. 17. It appears to be necessary to brain storm with available experts and

other stake holders in the State at different levels, evolve models for both

solid and sewage management which can be fast replicated, initiate

special campaigns with community/media involvement in the larger

interest of protecting environment and public health with determination

for prompt action. Such brain storming sessions may enable capacity

enhancement of the regulators and the processes. Campaigns and

community involvement may result in reducing the financial and

administrative load on the administration. 32 Need to explore implementation mechanism 18. In the light of above observations, it appears that there is need for

paradigm shift in handling of the situation. The nagging problem of waste

management stares the administration in the face and remains

unresolved to the detriment of environment and public health. First

change required is to set up a centralized single window mechanism

for planning, capacity building and monitoring of waste management

at the State level. Of course, local authorities have to do their duty and

stocktaking at the district levels may continue but subject to supervision

and control of such mechanism. It should be headed by an officer of

the rank of Additional Chief Secretary with representation from

concerned departments - Urban Development, Rural Development,

Environment and Forest, Agriculture, Water Resources, Fisheries

and Industries. The mechanism should be working on fulltime basis. Its

functions should include preparing a comprehensive blue print, periodic

review of progress in bridging the gaps in sewage and solid waste

management and establishing, continuous interaction with the

stakeholders, including experts and institutions, concerned departments,

community members and all other stakeholders. There must be a

continuous training programme for those involved in execution of waste

management projects. It should be responsible for selecting service

providers and simplifying procedures for fixing terms of engagement. Best

practices are to be evolved and followed. 33 19. Mechanism be considered to engage service providers by due

diligent process who may execute work relating to solid and sewage

management simultaneously throughout the State - all districts, cities

and towns. Solid waste management 20. Dump sites in operation as well as the legacy waste dump sites

occupy huge area of valuable public lands. They remain source of air,

water and land pollution resulting in damage to environment and public

health. They emit intolerable smell and cause hazardous and unsafe

environment for inhabitants in the vicinity. Their life is hell which is

denial of their constitutional and human rights. In terms of money also,

huge loss is caused to public health and environment. This situation is

not acceptable in a civilized society governed by rule of law. For victims of

situation, there is no governance. 21. While addressing the issue on bridging the gap in management of

MSW, segregation of the solid waste at source and its earliest processing

nearest to the point of generation with defined destination is imperative.

In particular, adequate compositing/vermicomposting/bio-methanation

centers need to be set up and upgraded nearest to the source of

generation of wet solid waste, listing people's involvement. This may also

require de-centralized waste processing facilities. Waste generators can

themselves be required to process the waste under guidance and

handholding by the Administration, with the assistance of identified 34 empaneled service providers and such details may be posted on

State's/Center's GeM portal. This may perhaps reduce planned

expenditure. Option of waste energy projects for bigger cities or at

regional/cluster level needs consideration. 22. Execution plan would include setting up of requisite waste

processing plants (centralized and decentralized) and remediation of left

out legacy waste dump sites. Bio-remediation/bio-mining process need to

be executed as per CPC B guidelines and the stabilized organic waste from

biomining as well as from compost plants need to comply with laid down

specifications. Other material recovered during such processes are to be

put to use through authorized dealers/handlers/users. Instead of

creating more dumping sites for only dumping of waste generated on day-

to-day basis unless, waste processing plants of adequate capacity should

be set up so that no further legacy waste is generated.

Fencing and maintaining legacy waste sites 23. Legacy waste sites must be maintained free from fires and safety of

workers engaged should be ensured. Such sites may be fenced with row

of trees or wall, as may be viable, for aesthetics, preventing foul smell and

safety. Provisions of Schedule-I of the SWM Rules, 2016 may be strictly

followed. Water quality in the vicinity of legacy waste dump sites may be

periodically monitored. If any contamination is found, remedial action

may be taken. Environmental safety aspects associated with legacy waste 35 dump sites be complied with as specified in Schedule I of MSW Rules,

2016. Use of reclaimed land occupied by legacy waste sites 24. As already mentioned earlier, legacy waste dump sites have

resulted in huge damage to the environment and population in the

vicinity of such dump sites who have suffered in safety, health and

comfort. For compensating them for such damage, one third of land

occupied by legacy dump sites (on reclamation) needs to be reserved for

dense forest and in the process of afforestation, Campa Funds can be

utilized in accordance with the provisions of Compensatory Afforestation

Fund Management and Planning Authority Act, 2016 (CAMPA Act). One

third of reclaimed land out of the said dump site needs to be reserved for

integrated waste management facilities. Remaining one third can be used

for any other purpose, consistent with the above purposes, including a

part of it being utilized for monetizing, if funding is required for tackling

the legacy waste. Legacy waste clearance has to be in minimum further

time as laid down statutory timelines have already expired and serious

damage is taking place. It may be noted that remediation of legacy sites

may be one time affair and such situations should not arise in future.

User of land, to be reclaimed, needs to be declared in advance so that

further steps can be taken in that direction. Maintaining sources of clean water (rivers, storm water drains and
water bodies - lakes, wetlands etc.) free from treated or untreated
sewage, channelizing treated sewage for non potable purposes 36 25. We also find that sanctity and significance of natural storm water

drains needs to be maintained. Storm water drains, if left unpolluted, can

be source of drinking water for humans, birds, animals or aquatic life

and discharge of sewage or even treated water which is not of standard of

drinking water, seriously affects such drinking water resource adversely

affecting their health. They are not to serve as sewage carrier. Failure of

duties of the State on this aspect has resulted in pollution of rivers. It is

evident from the data that huge amount of untreated sewage is being

discharged into rivers or otherwise has to be avoided and managed

without mixing in storm water drains/rivers/waterbodies. 26. As already observed, there is need for planning to prevent sewage

(treated or untreated) entering the potable water resources. Instead, the

same is to be suitably treated and channelized for non-potable purposes -

agriculture, industrial or others. 27. The restoration measures with respect to sewage management

include identifying sites for setting up of sewage treatment and utilization

systems, upgrading systems/operations of existing sewage treatment

facilities to ensure utilization of their full capacities, ensuring compliance

of standards, including those of fecal coliform and setting up of proper

fecal sewage and sludge management in rural areas. STPs need to have

co-treatment facilities of septage rather than having isolated FSTPs.

Guidelines of SBM - U 2.0 may be referred to in this respect. For urban 37 areas, SBM-U 2.0 provides co-treatment of fecal sludge at STPs with

sewage for which funding provisions are made. Utilisation of already set up STPs 28. We have found that even where STPs of adequate capacity have

been set up, the capacity is not fully utilized and standards of water

quality not always met. This aspect needs to be looked into on

continuous basis by a centralised mechanism which may be set up

preferably within a month. 29. Timeline for the establishing requisite treatment systems in terms

of judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Suraksha vs. Union

of India , supra has long expired. This Tribunal has already laid down that

for delay after 01.04.2020, coercive measures are to be taken but the

State has failed to do so. Till the gaps are bridged, untreated liquid waste

will continue to remain source of degradation of environment and damage

to public health, including deaths and diseases which the society can ill

afford. Common man will be deprived of access to potable water on

account of failure of the State to protect potable water sources from

pollution. Hence, the urgency of the situation for good governance for

ensuring emergent measures in public interest to protect the

environment, natural resources and public health as per mandate of the

Constitution. We have to levy compensation for continuing violation on

polluter pays principle to be utilised for restoration measures, following

observations in para 30 above. 38 30. As already noted and also observed in the judgement of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Paryavaran Surakhsha , supra, quoted earlier, the

matter falls in 11th and 12th Schedules to the Constitution. It is

constitutional responsibility of the State and the Local Bodies to provide

pollution free environment and to arrange necessary funds from

contributors or others. Being part of right to life, which is also basic

human right and absolute liability of the State, lack of funds or other

resources such as land (sites for waste management) cannot be plea to

deny such right. Such resources have to be found by the State by its

policies and according due priority to the subject. Further, while there

may be no objection to any central funds being availed, the State cannot

avoid its responsibility or delay its discharge on that pretext. Freeship or

other policies involving State resources cannot take priority over basic

need for hygiene and pollution free environment. 31. It is a matter of concern that even after 48 years of enactment of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and expiry of

timelines for taking necessary steps for solid waste management in terms

of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and binding direction in the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal in Almitra H.

Patel vs. Union of India & Ors. and Paryavaran Suraksha vs. Union of

India , supra, huge gaps still exist. Are there insurmountable difficulties

for State authorities or lack of will and determination? We find it difficult

to believe the first. In our view, it is lack of good governance and 39 determination responsible for the situation which needs to be remedied

 soonest. Sewage Management 32. Similarly, sewage can be required to be processed by cost-effective

 methods at least at several identified locations with least expenses.

 Decentralized and the prefabricated/modular treatment plants can be

 explored, apart from imposing condition of ZLD on industries, Group

 Housing Societies etc. Reduced load can be processed partly with the

 help of water using commercial establishments requiring water for their

 processes enforcing consent conditions in CTEs and CTOs whereby

 State's financial burden can be reduced. It may be worthwhile to look into

 and follow "Ready Reckoner on Municipal Used Water Treatment

 Technologies for Medium and Small Towns", compiled and published by

 Central Health Engineering Organisation, Ministry of Housing and Urban

 Development, GoI, on 28th September, 20222 which provides information

 about low cost technologies for treatment of sewage and use of treated

 water without discharging it in drains/rivers. 33. Compliance of environmental norms on the subject of waste

 management has to be on high on priority. It is high time that the State

 realizes its duty to law and to citizens and adopts further monitoring at

 its own level. 2 https://sbmurban.org/storage/app/media/rr-final-signed.pdf 40 Adhering to the timelines 34. Since the issue has been pending since long and there are adverse

effects of continuing delay on environment and public health, it cannot

be a matter of satisfaction that some steps are taken till the entirety of

the problem is tackled on war footing. Planning has to be to resolve the

problem without any further delay, in shortest possible time. Whatever

timeline is laid down, it should not be breached. If breached, adverse

consequences for such failures must follow on the designated

accountable officers instead of loose-ended processes.

Community involvement 35. Another important subject is community involvement not only for

IEC activities but also for planning and execution of waste management

activities. Welfare associations, corporates, religious, educational and

charitable institutions can play their role. The District Environment

Plans must have authentic and updated database which can be helpful

for policy making and execution of projects. State's liability 36. Apart from compliance in future, the liability of the State has to be

fixed for the past violations in the light of earlier binding orders passed in

pursuance of orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 2.9.2014 in WP

888/1996, Almitra Patel and dated 22.2.2017 in WP 375/2012,

Paryavaran Suraksha. Order dated 22.12.2016 in Almitra Patel clearly

laid down liability for compensation for breach of statutory timelines. 41 Similarly, liability for compensation was laid down for failing to install

 water pollution control devices after 31.3.2020. The Tribunal has to

 follow 'Polluter Pays' principle under Section 20 of the NGT Act. The State

 Authorities contributing to the pollution by failing in their constitutional

 duties are to be held accountable on this principle. Admittedly, timelines

 under Supreme Court orders and orders of this Tribunal for preventing

 water pollution and statutory timelines for solid waste management are

 over. Thus, atleast from 01.01.2021, the 'Polluter Pays' principle has to

 be applied. Compensation has to be equal to the loss to the environment

 and also taking into account cost of remediation. 37. Following the recent orders on the subject3, we fix compensation

 for discharge of untreated sewage in the drain at Rs.32 crore and for

 failure to process solid waste at Rs.3 crore. We had earlier levied interim

 compensation of Rs. 3 Crores which may be adjusted. Remaining of Rs.

 32 Crores be deposited by the State in a ring fenced account to be

 operated as per directions of the Chief Secretary for restoration of the

 Environment which will include preventing discharge of sewage in 3 (i) Order dated 25.07.2022 in OA No. 286/2022, In re: News item published in The Indian
 Express dated 20th April, 2022, titled "7 Charred to death in fire near Ludhiana
 dumpsite" (v) Order dated 13.10.2022, OA No. 606/2018 Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste
 Management Rules, 2016 and other environmental issues (in respect of State of
 Karnataka). 42 unscientific manner in drains or otherwise and improving the water

quality of the drain. Part of the amount may be utilized for restoration of

legacy waste dump site and for remediation of the leftover legacy waste. 38. An action taken report in pursuance of above order particularly

with reference to setting up of decentralized and centralized STPs and

stopping discharges from waste discharging points to Doodhganga and

Mamath Kull. Further, 90 MTs shifted solid waste to other site be

remediated including already existing legacy waste and providing status

on waste processing plants may be filed by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF

and not in the form of Image PDF on or before 30.04.2023. The Principal

Secretary, Urban Development, J&K may remain present in person by VC

on the next date. List for further consideration on 24.05.2023.

 A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary, J&K and

Principal Secretary, Urban Development, J&K and J&K PCC by e-mail for

compliance. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM 43 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM

October 14, 2022
Original Application No. 241/2021
A 44