5. As regards the adjudication order passed during pendency of the writ

 petition which has been impugned by way of a separate application filed in

 connection of the instant writ petition as aforesaid, it was submitted by Mr.

 Kanodia that the same was also passed without affording any opportunity of

 personal hearing to the writ petitioner. Mr. Chakraborty, learned Advocate

 appearing for the respondents could not offer much resistance to such

 argument. ANALYSIS & DECISION: 6. Law as regards interference with show cause is well settled. A mere notice to

 show cause does not give rise to any cause of action since it does not

 constitute an adverse order affecting the rights of the party and that being

 so a writ court is loath to interfere with a show cause notice unless an

 exceptional case of total lack of jurisdiction to issue such a notice or patent

 illegality in the such notice is made out ( See- Union of India & Another vs.

 Kunisetty Satyanarayana26 ; Union of India & Another vs. Vicco 26 (2006) 12 SCC 28 Page 12 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
 Laboratories27; Secretary, Ministry of Defence & Others vs. Prabhash

 Chandra Mirdha28 ). 7. Indeed if the show cause notice has been issued with a closed or

 predetermined mind-set that would fall within the category of patent

 illegality and would incur the wrath of a writ court. 8. The scope of enquiry in the present proceedings would therefore have to be

 limited to see as to whether the show cause notice impugned suffers from

 any of the aforesaid two incurable defects absent which this Court would

 refrain from interfering with the said notice. 9. Section 74 of the said Act of 2017 vests power with the relevant proper

 officer to issue notice to show cause if circumstances justifying issuance

 thereof exist. The first limb of the said Section is relevant for the present

 purpose. The same reads thus:- 10. Thus the proper officer would be justified in issuing a show cause notice

 under Section 74 of the said Act of 2017 if "it appears" to him that any tax

 has not been paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or where input tax

 credit has been wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud, or any wilful-

 misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax. 27 (2007) 13 SCC 270

 28 (2012) 11 SCC 565 Page 13 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353 11. A challenge to a notice to show cause in cases like the one at hand would be

 required to be examined in the light of the ingredients of the aforequoted

 provision, keeping in mind that while assessing the worth and validity of

 such notice the writ Court would only be required to see whether the

 primary ingredients for issuance of the notice to show cause i.e. the

 jurisdictional facts prima facie exist or not and whether the notice issuing

 authority has jurisdiction to issue such notice or not. At that stage the writ

 Court would not undertake an enquiry into the truth of the charges or

 allegations levelled. Adopting a divergent course, in the considered opinion

 of this Court, would force a full-fledged adjudication before the quasi-

 judicial decision making exercise is even undertaken by the relevant

 authority. In such regard the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 the case of Krishna Wax Private Limited (supra) cited by Mr. Chakraborty

 may be noticed:- [Emphasis supplied] 12. In the instant case, the show cause notice has alleged that the petitioner

 has claimed to have received inward supply of goods from certain persons

 whose GST registrations got cancelled under Section 29(2)(e) of the said Act Page 14 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
of 2017, with retrospective effect, on the ground that such registration had

been obtained by means of fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression of

facts. The notice issuing authority has doubted the genuineness of the

transactions and further alleged that upon examination of the ITC chain it

appears that the tax charged on the supply has not been paid to the

government by the supplier at source point of the chain and ITC has been

passed on fraudulently. The notice delineates a chain of the petitioner's

suppliers and alleges connivance between the petitioner and its suppliers in

tax evasion through fraudulent passing on of ITC in the following manner:- 13. After having levelled the aforesaid charges in great details, the petitioner has

 been called upon by the relevant authority to show cause why it should not

 be held liable to pay tax, interest and penalty as indicated in the said notice

 to show cause. The show cause notice thus has clearly made out a prima

 facie case that the petitioner is required to answer. 14. The petitioner has strongly relied on Section 16(2) of the said Act of 2017 to

 assert that fulfilment of all the conditions stipulated therein would entitle it

 to ITC. Such reliance is well founded. However, the petitioner has

 presumably missed the aspect that the standard of proof required for

 satisfaction of the listed conditions would vary by case. To be precise, where

 the genuineness of the transaction between the purchaser and the supplier

 is undisputed even basic documentation may suffice but in cases where the

 transaction's legitimacy is doubted a higher standard of proof would be

 required, particularly, in the light of the burden of proof as mandated by Section 155 of the said Act of 2017. In such cases a person cannot assert

 that basic documents like invoices, e-way bills etc. must always be treated

 as the "be-all and end-all" to support eligibility for ITC. Page 16 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353 15. This Court is unable to agree with the submissions of Mr. Kanodia that the

 show cause notice has been issued with a predetermined mindset. The

 petitioners would do well to remember that the Hon'ble Division Bench had

 while disposing of MAT 2291 of 2024 (i.e. the petitioner's own appeal) by the

 order dated January 21, 2025 observed that "when the authority has thought

 fit to exercise its powers under section 74(5) , he is enjoined upon a duty to

 consider the reply before it takes a decision to issue a show-cause notice

 under section 74(1) of the Act". The authority has proceeded to do so in the

 case at hand. If any reply furnished to pre-show cause notice is to be

 considered, the relevant authority will obviously apply its mind to it and

 then either return a prima facie finding that the case warrants issuance of a

 show cause notice or drop the proceeding. Application of mind would be

 evinced by the reasons supplied in support of the ultimate conclusion

 reached. In the instant case that is exactly what has been done. The GST

 authority cannot be subjected to a double whammy or be placed in legal

 double-bind by the petitioner who initially faulted the authority for not

 considering the petitioner's reply to the show cause notice and who has

 subsequently turned around to assert that the show cause notice is pre-

 meditated since it details the reasons for not agreeing with the petitioner's

 reply to the pre-show cause. To accept such an argument would lead to a

 classic text-book case of "heads I win tails you lose" effectively penalising the

 GST authority for its own transparency and diligence. 16. A meaningful reading of the show cause notice does not lead to the inference

 that the same has been issued with a premeditated mind. Mr. Kanodia's

 specific reference to the observations at page 7 of the notice to show cause Page 17 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
 to contend that the GST authority has prejudged the issue lacks appeal. The

 relevant observations may be noticed once again:- 17. The expression "reasons to believe" is not unknown to tax jurisprudence. Its

 usage in the notice to show cause only indicates presence of reasons

 sufficient enough to issue notice calling upon the registered tax payer to pay

 the taxes which the GST authority believes to be payable by the tax payer.

 Similarly, the expression "notice is to be issued requiring you to pay tax ..."

 cannot also be read as a definite conclusion reached by the GST authority.

 The text of the notice must be read in the full context of the factual setting.

 It cannot be lost sight of that the notice issuing authority has at the end of

 almost every paragraph referring to a certain allegation stated that its

 assertions are "prima facie". The profuse use of the expression "prima facie" 18. Mr. Kanodia has strenuously contended that e-way bills would be sufficient

 to prove movement of goods as the same contain details of vehicle numbers

 and the same can be verified by the proper officer to check the movement of

 goods. Mr. Kanodia's submissions are correct to some extent but then the

 same are not so weighty as to persuade the Court to hold that the GST

 authority could not have issued the show cause notice at all after the e-way Page 18 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
 bills being placed before it. Both e-way bills and weigh bridge slips are self-

 generated documents. E-way bills are generated prior to the commencement

 of the transportation. Therefore, the same may or may not by themselves be

 sufficient to prove actual movement of the goods in all cases. Evidentiary

 value thereof would vary from case to case. This Court hastens to clarify

 that while observing as above this Court is not expressing any opinion on

 the sufficiency or adequacy of the E-way bills specifically in the present

 case. 19. It will be for the petitioner to convince the GST authority that the documents

 submitted or to be submitted by it sufficiently establish the petitioner's

 eligibility to ITC. In such context, the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court in the case of State of Karnataka vs. Ecom Gill Coffee Trading

 Private Limited29 deserve notice:- [Emphasis supplied] 20. Where the genuineness of the transactions has been doubted based on an

 ITC chain, it would be improper for the writ Court to interfere with a show

 cause notice holding that presence of e-way bills and weighment slips are

 sufficient to prove movement of goods. It should not be forgotten that the

 proper officer has a duty to check and prevent tax evasion and law allows

 such officer to issue a show-cause notice based on "reason to believe" 21. In a sense the notice is a mere invitation for the tax payer to prove the

 proper officer wrong as the burden to prove eligibility for ITC is on the tax

 payer only. While discouraging interference at the stage of issuance of show

 cause, the purpose of issuing a notice to show cause was succinctly

 expressed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of Uttar

 Pradesh vs. Brahm Datt Sharma & Another30 thus:- [Emphasis supplied] 22. Similarly, in the case of Special Director and Another vs. Mohd. Ghulam

 Ghouse and Another31 the Hon'ble Supreme Court once again sounded a

 note of caution to the High Courts in entertaining writ petitions against

 show-cause notices in the following manner:- [Emphasis supplied] 23. In the case at hand the bonafides and genuineness of the transactions have

 been questioned by the GST authority and there is prima facie material to

 support the question raised, in such view of the matter, the GST authority

 cannot be faulted for issuing a show-case notice. 31 (2004)3 SCC 440 Page 21 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353 24. As regards the judgments cited by Mr. Kanodia, insofar as the judgment in

 the case of National Plasto Moulding (supra), Arise India Limited &

 Others (supra) and Suncraft Energy Private Limited (supra) are

 concerned, the same hold that purchasing dealers who have entered into

 transactions bonafide cannot be held responsible for defaults of the sellers

 but then the said judgments in the same breath also add the rider that the

 relevant department would be free to act against the purchasing dealers in

 cases where bonafides have been questioned or a case of collusion is made

 out. In the case at hand the genuineness of the transactions between the

 petitioner and its sellers have been questioned by the revenue by seeking to

 demonstrate collusion. The said judgments therefore do not aid the

 petitioners. 25. In the case of Singhal Iron Traders (supra) to there was no case of

 collusion made out and the revenue had proceeded only on the basis of the

 cancellation of the registration of the suppliers. The case at hand is not so. 26. Taparia Overseas (P) Limited (supra) has no manner of application to the

 present case. The said case is an authority for the proposition that the effect

 of fraud is not to render the transaction void ab initio but renders it voidable

 at the instance of the party defrauded and transaction continues valid until

 the party defrauded has decided to avoid it and that fraud intended by one

 man shall overturn a fair and bona fide contract or transaction with others. 27. Shanti Kiran India (P) Limited (supra) would also not aid the petitioner

 because that was a case where the Hon'ble Supreme Court had observed

 that "neither the transactions nor the invoices have been doubted". In the

 case at hand the genuineness of the transactions has indeed been doubted. Page 22 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353 28. Suresh Trading Company (supra) is also of no avail to the petitioner since

 in the said case too it was admitted by the learned Advocate General

 appearing for the department that the genuineness of the transactions

 between the registered dealer and the respondents was not in doubt and not

 disputed. Such is not the case here. 29. Roshan Sharma (supra) is an interim order where the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has issued notice upon recording the submissions made on behalf of

 the petitioner therein. The same does not help the petitioner at all. 30. M/s. Shraddha Overseas Private Limited (supra), LGW Industries

 Limited (supra) and would also not support the petitioners' case as the

 same was not one where genuineness of the transactions between the

 petitioner and its sellers had been questioned by the revenue by seeking to

 demonstrate collusion. 31. Cosmic Dye Chemical (supra), Continental Foundation Jt. Venture

 (supra), Padmini Products (supra), Chemphar Drugs & Liniments

 (supra), Gopal Zarda Udyog (supra), Lubri -Chem Industreis Ltd. (supra)

 are all cases that had walked up to the Hon'ble Supreme Court upon full-

 fledged adjudication process including statutory appeal before the appellate

 authority. None of these cases (which held that burden of proof lies on the

 revenue in the context of the Central Excise Act, 1944 ) was decided at the

 stage of show cause notice. In such view of the matter, the same cannot aid

 the petitioner. That apart in the case at hand the burden of proof clearly lies

 on the petitioner in terms of Section 155 of the said Act of 2017.

 Furthermore, the decision as to whether burden has been discharged or not Page 23 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
 can only be taken in the adjudication proceedings and not at the show

 cause stage. 32. Chandrashekhar Yadav (supra) and Ajnara Realtech Ltd. (supra) were

 passed in cases where the show cause notice lacked the essential

 ingredients of Section 74 of the said Act of 2017. The instant case is clearly

 not so. 33. Siemens Limited (supra) and ORYX Fisheries Private Limited (supra)

 also do not help the petitioner inasmuch as in the facts of the present case,

 it has been found that the show cause notice is not a product of meditated

 mind-set. In the said case the authority had confronted the notice with

 conclusions while in the present case the authority has only stated its prima

 facie case. 34. For all the reasons aforesaid, the challenge to the show cause notice cannot

 be sustained. The impugned show cause notice is not interfered with. 35. Insofar as the adjudication order dated November 04, 2025 is concerned, it

 is evident from the said adjudication order that the same has been passed

 without affording any opportunity of personal hearing to the petitioner

 despite the same visiting the petitioner with adverse consequences. 36. Such order is in clear violation of the provisions of Section 75(4) of the said

 Act of 2017 as also the principles of natural justice. In such view of the

 matter the same cannot be sustained. The order impugned dated November

 04, 2025 therefore, stands set aside. 37. The petitioner shall now have clear thirty days from date to reply to the

 notice to show cause. The proper officer shall consider such reply and pass

 appropriate order upon affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner Page 24 of 25 2026:CHC-AS:353
 in accordance with law. In case the petitioner fails to file reply within the

 time specified herein, its right to file reply would stand closed and the

 proper officer would be entitled to pass appropriate orders without the reply

 upon affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner in accordance

 with law. It is made clear that the entire period during which this writ

 petition remained pending before this Court shall stand excluded while

 computing the period of limitation prescribed for completion of the

 adjudication proceedings. It is clarified that the petitioner shall not be

 entitled to raise any objection, on the ground of limitation, to the

 adjudication proceedings conducted in terms of this order, unless such

 point was available to the petitioner at the time when the show cause notice

 was initially issued. 38. WPA 15138 of 2025 as well as CAN 1 of 2025 stand disposed of with the

 above observations. No costs. 39. Urgent photostat certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be supplied

 to the parties upon compliance of all formalities. (Om Narayan Rai, J.) Page 25 of 25