What’s the news: As many as 983 SIMs were deactivated by the Nuh police in Haryana after identifying 1,500 numbers involved in fraudulent activity near Aravalli forest region, reported Hindustan Times .

As per the report, the police launched a massive crackdown in 40 villages that were determined to be “cyber crime hotspots.” Officials analysed data from several SIM cards to identify at least 10,000 suspicious mobile phone numbers active around these villages. These numbers were forwarded to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and Crime Investigation Department (CID), which then narrowed down this number over the past week. The whole exercise started two months ago, Varun Singla, superintendent of police, Nuh, told HT.

Police following ASTR model: The SIMs, allegedly sourced from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam, Nagaland, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, were used by several gangs in Nuh for “honey trapping”, “sextortion”, ATM fraud, debit/credit card fraud among others. Singla said that DoT is using the Artificial Intelligence and Facial Recognition-powered Solution for Telecom SIM Subscriber Verification (ASTR) software to detect and weed out such fake/forged SIM cards even before they are used for cyber crimes.

“The ASTR analyses the entire subscriber base of all Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) and cleanses the database by identifying non-bona fide mobile numbers. We have also started a new drive to identify account numbers of cyber fraudsters and are checking National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) records for complaints registered against certain bank accounts and then sending details to the police officers concerned to register cases and nab the suspects,” Singla told HT.

First ever exercise of deactivating SIM cards: This was the first time in Haryana and NCR that numbers were reviewed and deactivated at such a large scale, said the report. Sangla told HT that there are nearly 1.5 million registered phone numbers in Nuh of which the police considered those that were bought using forged documents. As per the report, each SIM card bought via forged documents costs ₹3,000.

Nuh police said it registered 450 cybercrime cases between January and October 24 this year. Recently, they dug out details of 27 cyber crime cases involving two suspects and informed UP, Rajasthan, and Delhi Police to register cases against them. Similarly, the police is reaching out to other district and state police who have arrested cybercrime suspects “to flag their bank accounts.” Singla said this will help register more cases.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event