The accused in this case, who was prosecuted for

the offences punishable under Section 3(1)(xii) of Scheduled

Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Sections 366 and 376 of Indian Penal Code, was found guilty

on all three counts. He was therefore convicted and

sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for eight years

for the offence punishable under Section 366 of I.P.C., to

undergo rigorous imprisonment for eight years and to pay fine

of Rs.1,00,000/- with a default sentence of rigorous

imprisonment for two years for the offence under Section 376 of I.P.C. and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years

and to pay fine of Rs.25,000/-, with a default sentence of

rigorous imprisonment for one year for the offence under

Section 3(1)(xii) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The substantive sentences were

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. directed to run concurrently and set off as per law was

allowed. It was also directed that if the fine amount is

realised, a sum of Rs.1,00,000/- will be paid as compensation

to P.W.1. 2. P.W.1 is the victim in this case. P.W.6 is her

brother. On the date of the incident, i.e., on 10.7.2001,

P.W.1, as usual, went for job. However, she did not return

home on that date. A panicked P.W.6 laid Ext.P3 first

information statement. In the meanwhile, a phone call was

received from P.W.1 stating that she had gone along with the

accused and no one needs to worry about her. P.W.7 recorded

Ext.P3 first information statement furnished by P.W.6 and

registered crime as per Ext.P3(a) first information report

under the caption 'man missing'. P.W.13, who was entrusted

with the investigation, informed the missing of the girl to all

police stations. During investigation, he happened to come

across P.W.1 in the Atholi Bazar and she was taken to the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. police station and her statement was recorded. On the basis

of her statement, he filed a report before the court seeking to

have the offences under Sections 366 and 376 of I.P.C. and

Section 3(1)(xii) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act incorporated. He submitted

Ext.P16 report to the higher officer and he had P.W.1 medically

examined. P.W.9 examined the victim and furnished Ext.P5

report. Investigation was taken over by P.W.11. He prepared

the scene mahazar in relation to House No.7/4004 of Kalpetta

Municipality as per Ext.P7. He also prepared Ext.P1 scene

mahazar in relation to House No.4/203 of the same

Municipality. He recorded the statements of witnesses and

had M.Os. 1 to 3 cloths seized when produced by P.W.1 as per

Ext.P8 mahazar. He sent the articles so seized for chemical

examination and obtained Ext.P11 report. On the arrest of the

accused, he had him subjected to potency test and obtained

the necessary certificates. He had also obtained the other

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. necessary documents, completed investigation and laid charge

before court. 3. The court before which final report was laid

found that the offences are exclusively triable by a special

court and committed the case to Special Court for trial of

Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention Atrocities)

Act cases under Section 209 of Cr.P.C. The latter court, on

receipt of records, and on appearance of the accused before it,

framed charges for the offence under Section 3(1)(xi) of

Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention Atrocities)

Act and Sections 366 and 376 of I.P.C.. To the charge, the

accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The

prosecution therefore examined P.Ws.1 to 12 and had Exts.P1

to P16 marked. M.Os. 1 to 3 were got identified and marked.

During the examination of the prosecution witnesses, the

defence had Exts. D1 to D4 marked contradictory portions of Sec.161 statements of the respective witnesses. After the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. close of the prosecution evidence, the accused was questioned

under Section 313 Cr.P.C. He denied all the incriminating

circumstances brought out in evidence against him and

maintained that he is innocent. He submitted that while P.W.1

was working with him, she had committed financial

irregularities and also that her father's brother Ashokan had

some property near the property of the mother of the accused

and there were disputes between them. The said Ashokan is a

member of Atholi Panchayat. He, wielding his influence, has

falsely implicated the accused. 4. Finding that the accused could not be acquitted

under Section 232 Cr.P.C., he was asked to enter on his

defence. He chose to adduce no evidence. 5. On an appreciation of the materials before it, the

court below came to the conclusion that the offences have

been made out and convicted and sentenced the accused as

already mentioned. The said conviction and sentence are

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. assailed in this appeal. 6. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant

contended that the lower court has misdirected itself both on

facts and in law and has come to a wrong conclusion that the

prosecution has succeeded in establishing the case against the

accused. It was pointed out by the learned counsel that the

victim was aged above 24 years at the time of incident and

was capable of knowing the pros and cons of her acts.

Referring to the evidence of P.W.1, it was contended that,

according to the prosecutrix, she was in love with the accused

and that her evidence would show that she on several

occasions had physical contacts with the accused. She resided

at various places with the accused voluntarily and on her own

volition and there was nothing to show that there was any

compulsion from the side of the accused for P.W.1 to

accompany him or to have sex with him. There is absolutely

no evidence to show that there was any threat, coercion or

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. intimidation or there was any forced intercourse against the

resistance or reluctance offered by P.W.1. The only claim

made by P.W.1 is that the accused had offered to marry her

and she bonafide believed that he would do so. It is

significant to notice, according to the learned counsel, that

even after she left the employment of the accused, the

meeting between them continued and if one is to go by the

evidence of P.W.1, she had an active role to play in those

meetings. The complaint of P.W.1 is only that when she

mooted marriage, that was put off by the accused under one

pretext or another. Even according to P.W.1, her affair with

the accused was not disclosed to the members of her family.

The definite case of P.W.1, according to learned counsel, is

that on 10.7.2001 the accused told her that they could get

their marriage registered at Wayanad and believing him she

went along with him voluntarily. Even going by the evidence

of P.W.1, according to the learned counsel, they resided in the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. house of C.W.1, who is related and known to P.W.1 and P.W.1

had represented that the accused was her husband.

Thereafter, they shifted to the house of C.W.3. During the stay

in the houses of both C.W.1 and C.W.2, P.W.1 would say that

she has physical contact with the accused. Her complaint,

according to the learned counsel for the appellant, that when

she was residing in the house of C.W.3, the accused left her

and did not return. She had developed abdominal pain and

was hospitalized by P.W.5. P.W.5, the uncle of P.W.1, informed

about the illness of P.W.1 to the members of her family. P.W.3

came to the hospital, got P.W.1 discharged from the hospital

and took her home. Learned counsel emphasized that there is

no case for P.W.1 that either during the stay at various places

at Kalpetta or any other point of time, when they had sex,

there was threat, coercion or intimidation which made P.W.1

unable to resist. In fact, learned counsel pointed out that at

no point of time, any resistance was offered by P.W.1 and she

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. was a willing person to the sex enjoyed by them. It is clear,

according to learned counsel, that the physical contacts

between P.W.1 and the accused are the result of consent on

the part of P.W.1. In support of his contention, learned

counsel relied on the decisions reported in Uday v. State of

Karnataka ( 2003 K.H.C. 943), Thimmappa Gowda K.P. v. State

of Karnataka (2011 K.H.C. 4317), Jintu Das v. State of Assam

( 2003 K.H.C. 2278) and K.P. Thimmappa Gowda v. State of

Karnataka (AIR 2011 SC 2564). 7. Learned counsel for the appellant went on to

point out that being a woman who has attained majority, she

should be deemed to be conscious about the consequences of

having sex with the accused and should have been able to

foresee the possible danger. The allegation is that the

accused had promised to marry her on a future date. Even

assuming that P.W.1 believed that representation, it cannot be

treated as misconception of fact falling under Section 90 of

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. I.P.C . and therefore it could not be said that there was no

consent. There is no allegation of fraud or any other vitiating

element so as to vitiate the consent. There is nothing to show

that sexual intercourse, assuming the allegations are true,

was against the will and consent of P.W.1. If that be so, the

offences are not attracted and the appellant is entitled to an

acquittal. 8. Learned Public Prosecutor on the other hand

contended that the court below has considered the evidence in

considerable detail and has also evaluated the conduct of the

accused and has come to the conclusion that the accused had

promised to marry P.W.1 which P.W.1 honestly believed and it

was as a result of that belief that she had sex with the

accused. Learned Public Prosecutor drew the attention of this

court to the fact that on 10.7.2001 P.W.1 was induced to go

along with the accused on the promise that they would get

their marriage registered at Wayanad. A reading of the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. evidence of P.W.1 would show that she frequently reminded of

the said representation by him and then he put off the

marriage under one pretext or another. His conduct is such

that he could instill confidence in her mind and made her

firmly believe that he would marry her. It was that bonafide

belief which made the victim to have sex with the accused. A

close scrutiny of the evidence in this case and the conduct of

the accused would show that from the very beginning itself, he

had no intention to marry the victim of which he was fully

aware, even then he made a false representation to the victim

that he would marry her and made her believe that he would

do so. That amounts to a misconception of fact falling within

the ambit of Section 90 and if that be so, the claim of consent

is without any basis. In support of his contention, learned

Public Prosecutor relied on the decisions reported in Rao

Harnarain Singh v. State (AIR 1958 Punjab 123), Vijayan Pillai

@ Babu v. State of Kerala (1989 (2) K.L.J. 234), In re Anthony

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. (AIR 1960 Madras 308), Uday v. State of Karnataka (AIR 2003

SC 1639), Dileep Singh v. State of Bihar (AIR 2005 SC 203),

Yedla Srinivasa Rao v. State of A.P. ((2006) 11 SCC 615),

Pradeep Kumar Verma v. State of Bihar ( AIR 2007) SC 3059),

State of U.P. v. Manoj Kumar Pandey (AIR 2009 SC 711).

Relying on the principle laid down in the above decisions, it

was contended by the learned Public Prosecutor that a false

promise to marry which the accused knew from the very

beginning was false and had practiced deceit on the victim,

cannot now turn around and say that he had sex with P.W.1

with her consent. 9. P.W.1 is the victim. As is usual in such type of

cases, the evidence regarding the sexual acts is confined to

the testimony of P.W.1. P.W.1 was examined by P.W.9, the

doctor. Her findings are contained in Ext.P5 certificate. True,

she reserved her final opinion pending receipt of chemical

examination report. She did not receive the report and

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. therefore no final opinion was given. But from the entries

available in Ext.P5 and going by the evidence of P.W9, it is

clear that P.W.1 was used to sexual intercourse. 10. Coming to the evidence of P.W.1, she claims

that she had fallen in love with the accused and that she had

worked in the fancy shop run by the accused for an year.

Their intimacy developed during that period. She would say

that they fell in love with an intention of getting married and

that the accused had told her that he would marry her. To

quote in her own words

 " She would say that since the accused had promised to marry

her, she did not reveal the incidents to the members of her

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. family. She goes on to say that when she mooted marriage,

the accused used to put it off under one pretext or another

and he would point out that they could decide later and there

were certain difficulties in getting married at that point of

time. After leaving the employment of the accused, she joined

another shop at Puthiyangadi. She would say that even after

taking up employment in the new shop, she continued to meet

the accused. They used to meet near the house of P.W.1.

They used to meet on the banks of a river near to the house of

P.W.1 and even P.W.1 claims that the accused used to talk

about their marriage. He is also said to have told her that due

to certain problems he could not marry her immediately and

that he would marry her later. She would admit that the fact

that they were in love and the accused had promised to marry

her were not disclosed to the members of her family. On

10.7.2001, according to her, the accused came to the shop

where P.W.1 was working and told her that he wanted her to

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. go along with him to get their marriage registered. He

suggested that they could go to Wayanad. He in fact

represented that they could get their marriage registered at

Wayanad. P.W.1 would say that they went by bus to Kalpetta.

She would say that she had not revealed to anyone that she

was going with accused to Kalpetta. After reaching Kalpetta,

according to P.W.1, from there she telephoned to a house near

to her house and told the inmates of that house to inform the

members of her family that she had left the house in the

company of the accused. She then says that they had gone to

Kalpetta where they stayed in the house of C.W.2, Santha, who

was familiar to her. P.W.1 says that, to C.W.2 she said that

they were married and they stayed there for two days. She

would say that they had sexual intercourse on both those

days. They then shifted to the house of C.W.3 who is

examined as P.W.3. They stayed there for a day. There too,

they had indulged in sex. She would say that at that time also

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. she talked about their marriage and the accused promised to

have their marriage registered. Then, saying that he had to go

to his native place and would return soon to marry her, the

accused is said to have left her. He did not return. C.W.3 took

her to his uncle's house, i.e. P.W.5's house. While she was

residing with P.W.5, she developed acute stomach pain and

she was admitted in Government Hospital at Kalpetta. She

claimed that she then told P.W.5 about her affair with the

accused. While she was in the hospital she hoped that the

accused would come and meet her. However, he did not turn

up. Thereafter, members from her family came to the

hospital, got her discharged and took her home. She would

say that they have enquired about the whereabouts of the

accused and then she does not know what had transpired

thereafter. She says that she believed the words of the

accused that he would marry her and that is why she had

gone to Kalpetta and had sex with him. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 11. However, in cross-examination, certain

omissions were brought out which may have some bearing to

the issue involved in this case. Some of the statements

brought to her notice, she replied that she did not remember.

She however, conceded that her claim that she and the

accused had fallen in love while she was working under the

accused was not disclosed to the police. She denied that she

had written any letters to the accused. She admitted that

when they went to the house of C.W.3, it was because of her

familiarity that they were entertained in that house. They

allowed her to reside there only because she had told them

that the accused was her husband. To a pointed question that

while staying in the house of C.W.2, she had indulged in sex

with the accused voluntarily and out of her own will, the

answer given by the victim is that it is so because she believed

that he would marry her. She also admitted in

cross-examination that when they were asked to vacate from

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. the house of C.W.2, she and the accused had gone to the

house of C.W.3. Here too, she would say that the accused had

no acquaintance or familiarity with C.W.3 and it was because

of her familiarity that they were entertained in that house. 12. On the basis of the above evidence of P.W.1, it is

contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that if at

all there was any sexual intercourse, it with the consent of the

victim and therefore, no offence is made out. P.W.1 has

categorically stated that she believed the accused when he

told her that he would marry her and that is the reason why

she had gone along with him and indulged in sex with him.

The question that would arise for consideration is whether her

such belief would amount to misconception of fact vitiating

the alleged consent claimed by the accused. 13. Section 375 of I.P.C. defines rape. It reads as

follows: (Rest omitted as unnecessary.) 14. A reading of the above provision shows that

when a woman is subjected to sexual intercourse against her

will or without her consent, or in the circumstances mentioned

in Clause Thirdly, it amounts to rape. The clause which is

attracted to the facts of the case is Clause Secondly, which

mentions "without her consent". The question arises what is

meant by 'consent'. One has to necessarily refer to Section 90 of I.P.C. which reads as follows: (Rest omitted as unnecessary.)

It must immediately be noticed that section is worded in the

negative form. Going by the provision, consent cannot be

inferred if (i) is given under fear or injury, (ii) under

misconception of fact. First of these two aspects have no

application to the facts of the present case. It is the second

limb, i.e., misconception of fact, which is taken aid by the

prosecution in the case on hand to fasten liability on the

accused. It is trite that the consent must be free one and must

not be the result of threat, coercion, intimidation,

misrepresentation or fraud. Consent given under

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. misconception is invalid if the person concerned is aware of its

existence. In Ratanlal and Dhirajlal's Law of Crimes, 23rd

Edition, 262 at page under the caption 'Misconception of fact',

it is noticed as follows: 15. Consent contemplated under Sections 90 and 375 of I.P.C. must be one which should be obtained before the

act. To ascertain whether there is consent on the part of the

prosecutrix which would exonerate the accused, the attending

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. circumstances will have to be considered. One must notice

here at once that Section 90 of I.P.C. comes under Chapter IV

dealing with 'General Exceptions'. Consent, in order to relieve

the act of criminal character like rape, must be an act of

reason, accompanied with deliberation, after the mind has

weighed as in a balance between the good and the evil. It is

always a voluntary and conscious acceptance of what is

proposed to be done by another and concurred in by the

former. 16. In Halsbury's Laws of India, Vol.5(1) at page

131, it is stated as follows: 17. In Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.15A deals with

the question of consent and it is observed as follows: 18. In Words and Phrases, permanent Edition,

Vol.8A at page 197 it is observed as follows: " "Consent" in law means a voluntary
 agreement by a person in the possession and
 exercise of sufficient mentality to make an
 intelligent choice proposed by another. "Consent"
 differs from "assent", and implies some positive
 action and involves submission; while "assent"
 means mere passivity, or submission which does
 not include consent." Crl.Appeal.614/2006. At page 205 it is observed as follows: 19. In Black's Law Dictionary, 9th Edition at page

346 'consent' is noticed as follows: 20. In Text Book of Criminal Law by Glanville

Williams, Second Edition, the author, after referring to the

negative and positive sides of the notion of consent, at page

560 observed as follows: consent? The answer is given by the previous
 observation that consent always means consent to
 something. If you consent to A, you do not for that
 reason consent to B. It may be said that in rape, the
 issue is the woman's consent to sexual intercourse
 with this man. If she does not know that the act is
 one of sexual intercourse, or if she is mistaken as to
 the identity of the man, then she does not consent,
 but otherwise she does. One must have regard to
 the decencies of language, and it cannot properly
 be asserted that the woman does not consent where
 she merely mistakes some attribute of the man (that
 he has career prospects, that he has been
 vasectomised, that he intends to marry her, that he
 is free from venereal disease). If the man is guilty
 of fraud in these matters he can be punished for the
 statutory offence of obtaining sexual intercourse by

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. fraud. There is, therefore, no need to inflate the
 grave offence of rape to make it cover sexual
 deceits in general. The law was settled in this sense in Clarence,
 which has already been discussed in connection
 with OAPA Section 20 . It will be remembered that the facts were that
 Clarence, knowing that he was suffering from
 venereal disease, had intercourse with his wife, and
 thus communicated the disease to her. In holding
 that Clarence was not guilty under Section 20 ,
 because there was no assault, the Court for Crown
 Cases Reserved took the view that the wife's
 consent to the contact was not vitiated by
 Clarence's nondisclosure of his condition; and
 Stephen J expressly held that the rules for both rape
 and assault were the same. He stated the law thus: 21. In Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol.25 at page

191 it is observed as follows: 22. Criminal Law, 9th Edition by P.S.A. Pillai, at page

127 it is stated as follows: Generally speaking, consent means something
 which is done deliberately and by free will. It is a
 concurrence of wills. While concurrence of wills is
 an essential element of consent, it is also equally
 important that the consent is given consciously and
 with full knowledge of the act consented to."

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 23. In American Jurisprudence 2d at page 766, it is

mentioned as follows: At page 767, it is mentioned as follows: Crl.Appeal.614/2006. At page 817 it was held as follows: 24. In Criminal Law Cases and Materials by

K.D.Gaur, the learned author referring to the decision reported

in Rao Harnarain Singh, Sheoji Singh v. State (AIR 1958 Punjab 123) observed as follows: Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 25. In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary of Words and

Phrases, 6th Edition, Volume 1 at page 490, it is observed as

follows: 26. In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 75, at page

475 it is observed as follows: 27. A reading of the above literature would show

that consent means an act of reasoning accompanied by

deliberation, the mind weighing, as in a balance, good and evil

on either sides. Consent supposes three things; (i) a physical

power, (ii) a mental power, and (iii) free and serious use of

them. Consent given under a misconception is invalid if the

person to whom consent is given is aware of its existence. An

honest misconception by both the parties however does not

invalidate the consent. Consent obtained by false

representation which leads to misconception of facts will not

be valid consent. If the consent is obtained by (i)

intimidation, (ii) force, threat, coercion or undue influence, it

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. is to be treated as a delusion and not as a free and deliberate

act of mind. 28. Now one may turn to the decisions referred to

by both sides. The decision often referred to is the one

reported in Rao Harnarain Singh v. State (AIR 1958 Punjab 123). Though the court was considering an application for

bail, it was contended on behalf of the accused that even

assuming that there is sexual intercourse, the victim had

consented to the same. The victim was no more. One of the

main contentions was that there was no signs of the victim

having offered resistance. Considering the question of

consent in that context, it was held as follows: 29. Considering the issue as to what constitutes

consent, in the decision reported in Re Anthony (AIR 1960

Madras 308), it was held as follows: 30. Considering the question of misconception of

fact in the light of the plea that consent was obtained on the

promise of marriage, the Calcutta High Court in the decision

reported in Jayanti Rani v. State of W.B. (1984 Cri.L.J. 1535) ,

after referring to Section 90 of I.P.C., held as follows: 31. In the decision reported in Vijayan Pillai @ Babu

v. State of Kerala (1989(2) K.L.J. 234), it was held as follows: 32. In the decision reported in Jintu Das v. State of

Assam (2003 Cri.L.J. 1411) the issue as to when a full grown

woman consents to have sexual intercourse on a promise of

marriage and continued to indulge in such activity and she

conceived, question arose as to whether physical contact

would be as a result of the consent of the woman concerned.

The court held as follows: Mr. Baruah, learned counsel submits that the
 learned Sessions Judge convicted the
 accused-appellant u/s. 376 I.P.C. on the basis of
 the defence suggestion put to the prosecutrix,
 P.W.2 that the accused had sexual intercourse with
 her consent. Mr.Baruah has strenuously argued that
 the learned trial court was not justified in taking the
 aid of such suggestion in course of
 cross-examination. In support of his contention,
 he referred to a decision in Sakariya v. State of M.P. 1991 Cri.LJ 1925 wherein it has been held - Where in case of a charge of rape under
 Section 376 Penal code, the statement of accused
 contained plaint denial and a plea of false
 implication, subsequent suggestion by the defence
 lawyer to the prosecutrix about consent on her part
 would not amount to admission of guilt on behalf of

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. the accused. A suggestion thrown by the defence
 counsel to a prosecution witness does not amount
 to an admission on the part of the accused. It is a
 common practice to suggest to a witness while he
 or she is under cross-examination, the case of the
 defence when such evidence or suggestion is
 denied. It does not constitute any evidence.
 Suggestions put are no evidence at all against the
 accused and on the basis of such suggestion no
 inference can be drawn against the accused that he
 admitted the fact suggested in the cross
 examination. The proof of guilty required of the
 prosecution does not depend on the suggestion
 thrown to a witness." 33. In the decision reported in Deelip Singh v.

State of Bihar (2005(1) K.L.T. 18), it was held as follows: 34. In the decision reported in Uday v. State of

Karnataka (AIR 2003 SC 1639) the same issue as to whether

on a false promise when consent is obtained for sexual

intercourse and when later the accused retracts from the

promise, whether the act constitutes rape was considered. In

paragraph 19 of the said decision , it was held as follows: In paragraph 25 it was held as follows: 35. As to what constitutes consent was again

considered in the decision reported in Yedla Srinivasa Rao v.

State of A.P. ((2006) 11 SCC 615). The decision refers to the

decisions reported in Jayanti Rani Panda 's Case ( supra), Deelip

Singh 's case ( supra), Uday 's case (supra) and it was held as

follows: 36. In the decision reported in Pradeep Kumar

Verma v. State of Bihar (AIR 2007 SC 3059) the issue

considered was whether the mere promise to marry a girl can

constitute misconception of fact. In the said decision , it was

held as follows: 37. In the decision reported in Pradeep Kumar v.

State of Bihar (2007(4) K.L.T. 41 (SC)), the Apex Court had

occasion to hold as follows: 38. In the decision reported in Zindar Ali Sheikh v.

State of West Bengal ((2009) 3 SCC 761) it was held as follows: 39. In the decision reported in State of U.P. v.

Manoj Kumar Pandey (AIR 2009 SC 711) it was held as follows: 40. In the decision reported in State of U.P. v.

Chhoteylal (AIR 2011 SC 697) it was held as follows: 17. Broadly, this Court has accepted and
 followed the judgments referred to in the above
 judicial dictionaries as regards the meaning of the
 word 'consent' as occurring in Section 375 , IPC. It is
 not necessary to refer to all the decisions and the
 reference to two decisions of this Court shall
 suffice. In State of H.P. v. Mango Ram , a 3-Judge
 Bench of this Court while dealing with the aspect of
 'consent' for the purposes of Section 375 , IPC held
 at page 230 of the Report as under: 18. In the case of Uday v. State of Karnataka4 ,
 this Court put a word of caution that there is no
 straitjacket formula for determining whether
 consent given by the prosecutrix to sexual
 intercourse is voluntary, or whether it is given under
 a misconception of fact. The Court at page 57 of the
 Report stated : Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 41. In the above decision it was also observed that

it is to be remembered in such cases that the victim of sexual

assault is not an accomplice to the crime and her evidence

cannot be tested with suspicion as that of an accomplice. It

was pointed out that the evidence of prosecutrix is equated on

bar with an injured witness and if the testimony of the

prosecutrix is found to be reliable by itself may be sufficient

to convict the culprit. It was held that in prosecutions of rape,

law does not require corroboration. 42. In the decision reported in K.P. Thimmappa

Gowda v. State of Karnataka (AIR 2011 SC 2564), it was held

as follows: 43. A reading of the literature on the subject and

also the decisions referred to above , it becomes clear that

there is no straight jacket formula in ascertaining whether

there is consent in a particular case. A decision has to be

arrived at on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each

case and in the light of the evidence adduced in the case. The

following points emerge from the above discussion: Crl.Appeal.614/2006. (iii) Merely because the victim is aged above 16
 years is not a ground to presume consent. (iv) Girls of tender age can easily be induced away
 with promise of marriage. In such case, each case
 will have to be considered with reference to the
 evidence available in the said case. (v) If a woman indulges in sex believing that the
 accused would marry her, consent may be inferred. (vi) Mere promise of marriage without anything
 more does not constitute misconception of fact.

But if the accused made a promise, knowing it to be false

from the very inception, to the victim and had sexual

intercourse and later retracts from his promise, certainly there

is no consent at all. 44. Instances are several as in the present case

where the victim indulges in sexual intercourse on the basis

that the accused promised to marry the victim and the victim

believes in that promise. True that a mature woman is

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. capable of knowing the pros and cons of her acts. In the

decision reported in Jayanti Rani 's case (supra) which has

been followed by the Apex Court in several subsequent

decisions, a distinction between promise to marry which

makes a woman to give consent and a false promise made

with the knowledge of the accused at the very inception itself

that he has no intention to carry out his promise was brought

out. 45. What is crucial is the observation in the said

decision which reads as follows: 46. It has to be noticed that Section 90 of I.P.C. falls

in Chapter IV which deals with General Exceptions as already

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. noticed. But for the consent given by the victim, the act would

be illegal and would amount to rape. It is axiomatic that

consent is the linchpin of the offence. 47. The difficulty often arises when one is called

upon to ascertain the state of mind of a person at a particular

point of time. Whether the accused at the inception had the

intention to deceive the victim or whether it was a subsequent

promise of marriage or it was mere promise of marriage etc.

are matters which are difficult to be ascertained. In order to

come to the conclusion regarding the above matters, the

conduct of the accused before, during or after the incident

have to be considered. 48. In order to ascertain whether there is a consent

on the part of the victim also, the same standard has to be

applied. Her conduct before, during and after the incident has

to be ascertained. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 49. The potential of consent lies in its authority to

metamorphose an act that is wrong into one which the law will

permit. 50. Here one has to refer to the evidence of P.W.1

again. P.W1 had worked in the shop belonging to the

accused. Her definite case that they had fallen in love and he

had promised to marry her. It was on the basis of that

representation that they had indulged in physical contact. It

was also true that on the subsequent occasions also they had

freely engaged in sex. But it is significant to notice that on all

points of time, P.W.1 was under the bona fide belief that the

accused would marry her. In fact, she left her house on

10.7.2001 on the promise of the accused that the marriage

would be registered at Wayanad. The evidence of P.W.1 is

clear to the effect that frequently she had pointed out to the

accused that the marriage had to be conducted, and on all

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. those occasions he had promised that he would marry her, but

put it off under one pretext or another. 51. In the two houses where P.W.1, the victim, and

the accused had stayed together, the evidence of P.W.1 shows

that they were known to P.W.1 and P.W.1 and the accused had

stayed in those houses on the basis of the representation

made by P.W.1 that she and the accused were husband and

wife. It is significant to notice that the version of P.W.1 is not

seen challenged nor did accused take objection to the

statements made by P.W.1. 52. It is here that one has to notice the defence

taken. 53. As already noticed, Section 90 comes under the

category of General Exceptions. Once it is shown that the

consent is vitiated, then, the burden shifts to the accused to

show otherwise. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 54. The stand of the accused was one of total

denial. His case was that he had to terminate the services of

the victim as she had indulged in financial irregularities while

working under him and also that there was a property dispute

between his mother and a close relative of the victim. There

was no suggestion to P.W.1 that the sex which they had was

with the consent of P.W.1 or there was never a promise of

marriage made to P.W.1. There was also no suggestion to

P.W.1 that she had gone along with the accused to Wayanad

on her own will and without any inducement or allurement

from his side and that there was no promise of marriage at

Wayanad. 55. The fact that P.W.1 and the accused stayed in

the house of P.W.2 and another person, is spoken to by those

persons also. They both have identified the accused. The

accused has no case that those persons were familiar to him

and they were allowed to stay in the house on account of

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. acquaintance of P.W.1 with them. On the other hand, the

victim has stated that it was on her representation that they

were married that the persons concerned allowed them to stay

in the respective houses. 56. It is significant to notice that the accused had

left the victim at Wayanad and did not enquire about her

thereafter. P.W.1 was hospitalized for a while and then she

was brought back home. These facts spoken to by P.W.1 is

not seen challenged in cross-examination. Therefore, as

regards the testimony of P.W.1 regarding the circumstances

under which she and the accused had sex and also the reasons

for her to go along with the accused stand unimpeached. In

fact, to a suggestion in cross-examination that she had

indulged in sex with the accused on her own volition and

decision, she replied that it was only because the accused

had promised to marry her. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 57. True, P.W.1 had engaged in sex with the

accused on a number of occasions. It is also true that she was

aged more than 20 at the relevant point. She should have

been aware of the pros and cons of her acts. She is a mature

lady. But one cannot forget that the accused had promised to

marry her and that inducement or allurement offered to P.W.1

made her to act as she did. As far as the accused is

concerned, he knew at the very inception itself that he had no

intention to marry the victim, but promise of marriage was

made only to procure her consent to have sex. If that be so,

the so-called consent claimed by the accused is not a valid

consent. 58. The contention raised by the learned counsel

for the appellant that the frequent sex which the accused and

the victim had and the fact that the victim had voluntarily

gone along with the accused militate against the theory of

rape cannot be countenanced. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 59. It is not a case where there was a mere promise

to marry and the victim had consented for sex. It is a clear

case where she was induced or lured to have sex from the very

beginning itself under the promise of marriage which the

accused knew was a false representation and that he had no

intention to marry her. Under these circumstances, the

decisions relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant

that indulging in sex by a lady who had attained the age of 18

on the promise of marriage does not constitute rape cannot be

applied to the facts of the present case. 60. It is very clear from the conduct of accused that

he procured consent of P.W.1 for sex on the promise of

marriage and he had in fact taken her to Kalpetta under the

pretext of registering their marriage, a representation which

from the very inception the accused knew was false. 61. Considering the evidence in this case, it could

not be said that the court below was justified in coming to the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. conclusion that the evidence under Sections 366 and 376 of

I.P.C. have been made out. 62. However, the finding of the court below that the

offence under Section 3(1)(xii) of the Scheduled Caste and

Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is made out

cannot be sustained. In the light of the decision reported in Stephen Joseph v. State of Kerala (2013 (2) K.L.T. 58) unless

the offence has been committed on the basis of racial

prejudice, the provisions of the Act cannot be invoked. There

is no case for the prosecution that the victim was subjected to

sexual intercourse due to racial prejudice. Therefore,

conviction for the offence under the Scheduled Caste and

Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has necessarily

to be set aside. 63. The appellant has filed Crl.M.A. 1819 of 2013

under Sections 391 and 482 of Cr.P.C. seeking to have certain

documents produced before this court which according to the

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. learned counsel for the appellant, have material bearing on

the issue involved and which needs to be looked into. 64. The documents so produced are certain letters

alleged to have been written by the victim to the accused. It

can be seen from the testimony of P.W.1 when she was

specifically asked whether she had written any letters asking

the accused to meet her, she categorically denied the same.

Even inspite of the specific denial, the appellant did not feel it

necessary to have the letters produced and have it properly

brought in evidence. No reason is given as to why they could

not be produced at the trial stage. Cogent and convincing

reasons will have to be given as to why the letters now

produced could not be made available at the trial stage. No

satisfactory reason is given as to why those documents should

be admitted in evidence in this case. Therefore, Crl.M.A. 1819

of 2013 is dismissed. Crl.Appeal.614/2006. 65. Coming to the sentence, the trial court has

awarded rigorous imprisonment for eight years for the offence

under Section 366of I.P.C. Similarly, for the offence under Section 376 of I.P.C. also sentence of rigorous imprisonment

for eight years and fine of Rs.1,00,000/- with a default clause

has been imposed. 66. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant

contended that the sentences are too harsh and severe and

going by the facts and circumstances of the case some

leniency be shown with regard to the sentence. 67. The evidence and the facts referred to above shows that P.W.1 was taken for a ride by the accused. At all

points of time he kept alive the promise of marriage and

indulged in sex. Ultimately, he abandoned her. Considering

the facts and circumstances of the case, it is felt that no

leniency regarding the sentence is also warranted.

Crl.Appeal.614/2006. The result is that this appeal is without merits and it

is only to be dismissed. I do so confirming the conviction and

sentence passed by the court below with regard to the offence

punishable under Sections 366 and 376 of I.P.C., but setting

aside the conviction and sentence passed by the court below

for the offence punishable under Section 3(1)(xii) of Scheduled

Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and

the accused shall stand acquitted for the offence under

Section 3(1)(xii) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe

(Prevention of Atrocities) Act. P. BHAVADASAN,
 JUDGE

sb.