SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Reality of Sonia Gandhi
DATE: 2014-04-06
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/22c5it/reality_of_sonia_gandhi/

--- POST TEXT ---

Who is SONIA GANDHI? ( Every Indian Should Know This )

Who is Sonia Gandhi:
There is officially no Sonia Gandhi. Her real name in passport is neither Gandhi nor Sonia. Its Hedvige Antonia Albina Moina. Sonia is a Russian name and not Italian. However, Antonia is an Italian name and her passport is Italian. Though she has married Rajiv Gandhi* she never accepted change of title officially. ( recall the time of turmoil in Indian politics when Sonia Gandhi was trying to be the prime minister, but ultimately ManMohan Singh became her toy)

*Rajiv Gandhi: Actually Rajiv Khan being the son of Firoz Khan and Indira Priyadarshani. Gandhi is an assumed title to sentimentally lure Indians for their political benefit. They are muslims by religion.

Father:
Stefano Eugene Maino is socially the father of Sonia. Her father was a German(hitlers army). When Hitlers army went to russia they were captured and imprisoned. He was captured near St. Petersburgh and was imprisoned for 20 years. But he became a member of KGB and his imprisonment was limited to 4 years. When he came back from prison he gave russian name to his daughters. Social father because when she was born her father was in jail for 4 years. Biological father is unconfirmed.

Mother:
Paula Maino.
Family:
She had 2 sisters in Orbassano, italy
Birthplace
Sonia claims she was born in Besano, near Turin in italy. However, as per her birth certificate, She is actually born is Luciana, in the borders of Switzerland. A resort town for German soldiers during war.

Education:
She initially put forward to Indian Govt. that she studied in Cambridge University which proved to be fake. She submitted an affidavit that she studied English in Bell Education trust at Cambridge. Even this was proven to be fake and was found she never got any education after class five. She was a young girl with no formal education living five years in England. How did she support her livelihood for 5 years? Any wild guesses?

Citizenship:
She has not given off her Italian citizenship. Indira Gandhi used her power to issue her an Indian Citizenship so that she can join Indian politics. She is holding an illegal citizenship in India. No action is being taken by Home Minister.

Religion:Christianity.

Bank Balance:
Rajiv Gandhi and his family owned 2 billion USD in Swiss Bank as of November,1991(alleged) Benefitiary of death of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi was Sonia Gandhi.

Family:
Sonia's sister Alexandria(or Anuska) has 2 shops in Italy selling antiques stolen from India. Sonia used her power to smuggle indian artifacts through Air India flights uninspected.

Sonia's son Rahul Gandhi, whose real name is Raul Vinci. He got admitted to Harvard in quota but was thrown off soon because he was incompetant. He has italian citizenship since his mother never gave up her citizenship. He cannot officially become the citizen of india or any politician in india as long as he doesnt give up his italian citizenship. Arrested in Boston airport for carrying 160,000 dollars cash, accompanied by Veronique (spanish). veronique is the daughter of Drug mafia leader. Rahul has also been accused for gang raping Sukanya Devi,(false allegation maybe?)whose petition to all courts in India have b.een rejected due to their political hold and the whereabouts of the family is unknown. 
However, the information is widely available online.
So what do you guys think about this?