“Frequent Rs. 16 transactions indicate cigarette purchases, information which, we can share with insurance companies,” Mutual Fund Transfer Agency CAMS’ director Anuj Kumar spoke about innovations using account aggregators said in an interview with LiveMint in May this year . This raised a lot of eyebrows, especially because, as per common understanding, account aggregators are data blind . Financial Information Providers (FIPs), which hold user information, encrypt customer data before sending it to an Account Aggregator (AA). Then how was this use case that the CAMS director was speaking about even possible?

While AAs cannot access data, a little-known player in the ecosystem called a technology service provider (TSP) can. TSPs are an intermediation layer between AAs and Financial Information Users ( FIUs , organizations like banks and lending agencies). A TSP’s first job in this entire data chain is to decrypt data, CAMSfinserv CEO Tejinder Singh said in an interview with MediaNama. CAMS Finserv is the account aggregation arm of CAMS.

“TSP are able to decrypt the data and also analyze it. They then do bank statement analysis, PFM [Personal Finance Management] analysis,” Singh explained. Within this analysis, TSPs can see bank statements and transactions. “In the transaction section, the actual transaction detailing, basic credit entry or debit entry, value, date, narration, everything is available. Now you can actually then use that narration to create a number of analytic outputs around it,” Singh said.

Addressing Kumar’s interview with LiveMint, he said that the import of the statement was that “using account aggregate ecosystem, the insurers can see whether it is a smoker who’s taking insurance. So they can maybe charge a higher premium.” He emphasized that while the use case suggested by Kumar is possible, it isn’t being done by account aggregators.

The following is a copy of MediaNama’s interview with Singh, where he spoke to us about a range of topics such as TSPs, CAMS Finserv’s approach to working with TSPs and the guardrails in place to prevent TSPs from missing data. Singh’s answers have been edited for brevity.

Singh: CAMS is a 35-year-plus vintage company. Initially, the tech team was housed internally. At some point, we housed all our technology teams in Sterling, which remains a 100% subsidiary of CAMS. But it’s an independent entity. It’s at arm’s length. It has its own separate board and governance. FinServ has a separate board and governance. And within the ambit of regulation, the roles that a TSP can play for the FIU, Sterling can do all of that. And as an aggregator, the rule that I have, I can execute that.

Singh: CAMS is an organization with about 35 years plus vintage; we’ve got a pristine record around it, not even a speck of doubt in people’s minds about our capabilities and data security protocols, network security, governance, and compliance standards. And we actually get that because our group company, Sterling, provides that ability to us to do that from a technology perspective.

I do not have the same confidence in a market-facing TSP, which could be a fintech in the business of valuation. In the business of valuation, you will get any number of opportunities in your journey to monetize the data, maybe create a proprietary database, maybe do all that is possible with the data flowing and floating around. But CAMS will never do it.

I fear I would risk the FIU’s growth if I use an external TSP. Any aberration or non-compliance by the TSP will impact the FIU. If the TSP has caused an anomaly and the TSP is not within my control, I do not want to risk either the FIU relationship that I have or the FIP relationship that I have.

Singh:

The quest for the regulator is trying to manage between innovation and regulation. The regulator wants innovation, which means it will allow you to have all kinds of flexibility, but the day they find out something wrong, then they do a Paytm.

The stable that I come from, regulation is becoming far more, and has always been very important, for us in CAMS. There have been instances where account aggregators have worked with market-facing TSPs who created non-compliant journeys, not meeting the fair usage guidelines. This led to a situation where the account aggregators are being barred by a few of the FIPs from getting the data.

It takes AAs five to six years to activate an FIP. After this if you get barred by the FIP for some reason, it causes big time disruptions to the FIU that you are servicing. Imagine that you are servicing a large FIU, and one of the large FIP is not giving data to you. And this problem has not happened because of the account aggregator per se but because of the TSP-created journey. So TSP being the unregulated entity and being a fintech, and RBI’s core team around there being SRO [self-regulatory organizations], TSPs will eventually have to become a part of some kind of SRO to exist.

If you’re talking to me as an AA, and I say I’m delivering the data to the FIU. Once the data is on the FIU server, my job as a consent manager is over. I have delivered encrypted data to the FIU. After that, the FIU, being a regulated entity, is well within its right to have outsourcing partners like TSPs to handle the data. But there is a governance around that as well. It’s not that the outsourcing arrangements spelled out by RBI, the guidelines around it are silent about it for the FIU. The FIU has to ensure that the regulations are being adhered to by their outsourced vendors. This could be obligations like auditing TSPs and ensuring data purging. Otherwise, they risk losing their license.

I’ve been making this stance available to the whole ecosystem that we run the risk of TSP being an unregulated entity in the ecosystem. The regulator has been actively working on bringing in SROs for fintech, so all these TSPs will be fintechs and will need to join an SRO to exist.

Singh: We will show him what will be the contours of the consent, whether this consent will be for your six-monthly statement or yearly statement. We tell them the life of the consent request, explaining that they have to approve a consent request within a week. We tell them the expiry of the consent. What is the period for which you are sharing the data? The period of the data. So the user is shown the contours of the consent.

Singh: I can theoretically take consent that I can get your data every 15 minutes and give it to the FIU. To mitigate such abnormal usage, we implement fair usage policies. This limits FIUs from getting data beyond a certain frequency. For instance, FIUs cannot ask for data more than 45 times a month. And on the depository side and RTA [Registrar and Transfer Agents] side, it’s once a day. There’s no point in RTAs taking the data more than once a day because the data itself doesn’t get updated at a higher frequency.

RBI has already started auditing account aggregators and FIUs to check what they are doing with that data. RBI has completed its first round of at least the top six or seven audits for AAs, in Q4, and then they started with the audits of REs, which is the FIUs.

Singh: If consent was acquired at the FIP level, there would be no need for account aggregators. FIP in the core banking solution itself can capture the consent and then submit it to whosoever the customer wants them to submit it to. But that will work against the core grain of the FIP. Why would a FIP provide such a service to their customers when their core belief is that this is our data?

What this architecture is saying, it is not FIP’s data. This is citizens’ data. And he has a right of choice to share it with whatever he wants, whosoever he wants, which means I have to use a pool-based architecture. I have to document the consent, keep the consent with me, and then execute the consent, go to the specific FIP and get the data at this specific frequency.

Singh: We treat ourselves as a relationship that is subservient on the FIP side, but on the FIU side, it’s an enabler for their digital journey. We support them in moving it away from manual processes of, let’s say, download, upload kind of stuff that is available today.

Let’s say you want to submit a bank statement, you can download your bank statement using your website, net banking or a mobile app and upload it wherever you want it. But that process is also friction-prone. By the time you do that, your other journey is getting broken down. So it’s still fraud-prone. All of us know the possibilities of PDF editing. So even that pseudo digital journey of download upload is not a reliable journey. I actually fit in as a consent manager layer for data transmission. I ended up then brainstorming with the client about where they would need the data.

On our RTA side, Mutual Funds Central, which is a large application where citizens use that application to redeem their folios, instead of doing a penny drop, we ask the citizen for consent. When they give consent, the data that comes to me from the FIP (bank in this case) has the full name of the customer. Unlike the penny drop process, which has a character constraint of 20 digits, the account aggregator, the name doesn’t have a character constraint. The full name will come. It will also give me the PAN (permanent account number). It’s a more reliable way. It’s a consented way. It has a higher throughput. It’s a more reliable way.

We have also developed a use case for mutual funds that explores the following question: ‘If we can access holdings data, can we calculate a lendable amount against that holding to generate a daily offer?’ SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) regulations currently allow you to take a loan of up to 50% against your equity holdings in mutual funds. This is not a new product. Loan Against Mutual Fund is a more than 10, 15-year-old product, but it has a constraint that the margins on it are thin.  On the top side, you can only charge, say, 10%, 12%. The cost of funds is five to seven percent.

Singh: About four to five percent, I can safely say, will be the spread in the loan against mutual funds. In an unsecured standard personal loan, the spread will be nine to ten percent. Because of a higher spread available the distribution margins are five times in unsecured lending. Half percent in a secured product like a home loan or loans against a mutual fund, and two and a half to three percent on unsecured lending. The fact that there is a higher margin available on unsecured loans, the channel that sells you the lending product will first pitch in the unsecured loan and not pitch loans against mutual funds. Especially for a low ticket.

See, the ticket is large, a home loan of 30- 50 lakhs, half percent margin still gives the lender, the distributor some decent ticket size on per conversion. However, in India, 85% of unsecured lending involves ticket sizes smaller than one lakh rupees. While consumers may lack knowledge and awareness about the product, which can constrain their choices, companies can effectively address this issue through a digital journey. You just have to create a platform that will educate you that against that holding that you have, you are eligible on the day for an offer, which will be honoured, and pre-approved.

You can create such offerings in other ways as well, but the cost of creating that offer through any other solution would be much higher. So we have had talks with regulators around it and they are pretty convinced that this is a product that should fly, it should be a disruptive solution . This becomes possible only because account aggregators made it possible for you to get the data. The consent part of getting the data on a daily basis.

Singh: Today only regulated entities can access the data of citizens, if that constraint was not there then possibly the first set of citizens in this country who would want the data beyond all kinds of crazy usage would be maybe your chartered accountants. As a chartered accountant, your chartered accountant may not have visibility on your financial data across your FIPs.

Yeah, so there are people who are wanting to build it. But the constraint will be they will have to have a regulated entity in their setup to get the data for them to do tax planning. So if the entity that is thinking of getting this data is not a regulated entity, then even if theoretically it’s a great concept, they will not be able to execute it.

Singh: It would look like what we are doing today handling 115 clients, handling their journeys, providing consent, providing all the details and ensuring the encrypted data moves to them.

Fortunately for us in the financial ecosystem, the consent manager layer exists in the form of account aggregators. I actually hate the word account aggregator. Because it creates so much of discomfort in a listener’s mind. For a discerning citizen, it’s very uncomfortable because you don’t want anybody to aggregate your data apart from you. I do the job of documenting the consent for my FIU client, why do they have the citizen data? What’s the purpose of accessing this data? And I provide a digital log of which date on what time the citizen gave the consent. So my FIU client can become DPDP compliant using this architecture.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event