For the Appellants : Mr. R.S. Mazumdar, Sr. Advocate
 For the State : Mrs. Priya Shrestha, Special P.P. ----- This interlocutory application has been preferred by the appellant no. 2 for
 grant of bail to him during the pendency of this appeal. The appellant no. 2 has been convicted for the offences under sections
 376DA , 376(2)(n) / 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the POCSO Act
 and has been sentenced to imprisonment for life, which shall mean imprisonment
 for the remainder of his natural life along with a fine of Rs.50,000/-for the offence
 punishable under section 376DA of the Indian Penal Code. It has been alleged that the prosecutrix after staying for six years in the
 quarter of her maternal grandmother had left it and started staying at her own
 house. On being questioned, she disclosed that both the accused had prepared
 her nude video and by blackmailing her were repeatedly committing rape upon
 her. She has described the various instances when both the accused had
 subjected her to sexual abuse. Submission has been advanced by the learned senior counsel for the
 appellant no. 2 while referring to the evidence of P.W-1 that there was no
 tenderness and redness on the private part of the victim and that penetration
 was not forceful, which falsifies the case of the prosecution. It has also been
 submitted that although it has been alleged that on the threat of the nude video,
 both the accused persons had subjected the victim to rape but no such video
 was recovered by the Investigating officer although the mobile of the appellant
 no. 2 was seized from his possession. Learned Special P.P. has opposed the prayer for bail of the appellant no. 2.
 It appears from the evidence of P.W-4 who is the victim that she is
 consistent with respect to the commission of rape upon her repeatedly by both
 the accused persons including the appellant no. 2. The medical report also
 indicates that sexual intercourse had taken place. In view of the aforesaid facts, we are not inclined to admit the appellant
no. 2 on bail. His prayer for bail is, accordingly, rejected. I.A. No.2073 of 2022 stands rejected. ( Rongon Mukhopadhyay, J)

 ( Ambuj Nath,J)

Rakesh/-