China has had a vice-like grip on cryptocurrencies since 2013 when it first barred its banks from handling transactions related to Bitcoin. Now, a fresh crackdown has been initiated by China on activities related to cryptocurrencies which include an explicit ban on crypto trading, according to a press release by the People’s Bank of China. The country has also intensified its clampdown on crypto mining after banning mining projects in June this year, according to a CoinDesk report.

Many crypto analysts believe that the latest move is the most comprehensive of all the rules in the history of crypto regulation in China. The crypto ecosystem is under pressure across the world as governments become wary of privately operated, volatile digital currencies.

Here, we answer frequently asked questions about China’s crypto ban, the measures announced, and their impact.

What is banned as per the new regulations? These are the trading activities banned as per the new law:

Do the rules apply to foreign crypto exchanges? It is now illegal for foreign virtual currency exchanges to engage in financial activity with domestic residents of China through the Internet. Parties like the domestic staff of these exchanges along with people availing their services will be a subject of an investigation if they engage with them. Huobi and Binance , two of the biggest exchanges in the world, have announced plans to stop providing their services to the Chinese market following this development. China had already directed crypto exchanges to cease operations in 2017 but they continued to serve the market from offshore bases.

How will the government implement these rules? PBOC laid down a set of measures it will rely upon to strengthen surveillance of the virtual currency space and dissuade people from engaging with virtual currencies.

Why is the government banning virtual currencies? “Trading speculation has risen, disrupting the economic and financial order, breeding illegal and criminal activities such as gambling, illegal fund-raising, fraud, pyramid schemes, money laundering, etc., and seriously endangering the safety of people’s property,” China’s central bank said in its statement.

Why does China refuse to recognise crypto as legal tender? The central bank said: “Virtual currency does not have the same legal status as legal tender. Bitcoin, Ethereum and other virtual currencies have the main characteristics of issuance by non-monetary authorities, the use of crypto technology and distributed accounts or similar technologies, and the existence in digital form. They are not legal compensation and should not and cannot be used in the market as money,” the statement continued.

Which departments or ministries have established a monitoring mechanism?

The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), China’s apex state-planning body, reiterated China’s intention to phase out mining completely from its land.

What is crypto mining? The term crypto mining means gaining cryptocurrencies by solving cryptographic equations through the use of computers. This process involves validating data blocks and adding transaction records to a public record (ledger) known as a blockchain. China had emerged as the hub of mining because it offers electricity at low cost and cheap computer hardware.

Why is it being discouraged by China? It has not been banned completely but it consumes a lot of electricity which has forced China to wash its hands off the scheme so as to meet its carbon-neutrality goals.

What did the NDRC order? It ordered local authorities to clamp down on illegal mining activities. Mining is to be deemed an “outdated” industry and no new projects will be sanctioned, whereas existing ones will be given time to exit, as per a CoinDesk report. The NDRC has transfered full control of the mining crackdown to central authorities from provincial and city governments, the report added. The notice prevents crypto mining activities under the guise of a data centre.

What are the measures stipulated? The NDRC instructed local authorities to draw up a list of current and developing mining projects and their characteristics. The regulatory body also wants a check on power grids for abnormal electricity use related to illicit mining and to strengthen on-site inspections of large data centres. It urged local governments to cease tax support of mining projects.

How does the notice target the electricity supply of miners? No electricity supplier will provide electricity to miners, CoinDesk reported. The notice increases the cost of electricity supplied to miners.

December 2013: The PBOC termed bitcoin as a “virtual good” that has no legal status and shouldn’t be used as a currency. This was effectively the first ban towards crypto applied to major financial institutions within the country, according to a BBC report.

September 2017: The country ordered local cryptocurrency exchanges shut and banned Initial Coin Offerings (ICO). It did permit over-the-counter transactions while restricting the conversion of fiat into virtual currencies, Business Insider reported.

May 2021: China then banned financial institutions and payment companies from providing services related to cryptocurrency transactions, and warned investors against speculative crypto trading in May this year, Reuters said in its report. Banks and online payments channels will not be able to offer clients any service involving cryptocurrencies, such as registration, trading, clearing, and settlement, Reuters added.

June 2021: China, citing environmental concerns and excessive energy consumption, clamped down on mining operations in the country. It led to bitcoin mining operations moving overseas to more crypto-friendly countries, including the US and Kazakhstan.

The blanket ban imposed by China is its most categorical response to the sunrise industry. Here are a few articles to help make sense of China’s actions:

Explainer: What’s new in China’s crackdown on crypto? by Reuters (Read here )

China’s Latest Crypto Ban Is Its Most Severe, Insiders Say by Muyao Shen (Read here )

Why China Finally Decided to Ban Bitcoin by Aaron Mak (Read here )

China’s crypto ban puts spotlight on central banks putting their own spin on digital coin by David Hollerith (Read here )

Also read:

If you have a question that you’d like us to consider about China and cryptocurrency, leave a comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event