1. The accused namely Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi faced
trial for the offences u/s 498A / 304B / 34 IPC. A chargesheet was
filed against them SHO PS Nihal Vihar for the commission of
offences u/s 498A / 304B / 34 IPC. The case of the prosecution: 2. The facts of the prosecution case, in brief, are that on
28.07.2018, the police received an information that one married
woman, namely, Pooja W/o Sudhir had been brought to the SGM
Hospital in unconscious state. She had been declared brought
dead in the casualty by the doctors. On inquiry, police came to
know that the woman got married in the year 2017. Accordingly,
SDM Punjabi Bagh was informed. PW-1, Sh. Sitaram got
recorded his statement Ex. PW-1/A to the SDM to the effect that
deceased Pooja was her youngest child. She was married on
08.05.2017 with accused Sudhir Kumar. In the marriage, he had
given dowry as per his capacity. The accused Sudhir Kumar was
working in Sehgal Hospital as the ultrasound technician. He
further stated that for about 1½-2 months there was no complaint State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 2/28
 in the marriage. However, one day his daughter told him that
Sudhir had demanded a sum of Rs. 60,000/- and one bullet
motorcycle for his transport. When he talked about this with the
parents of Sudhir, they stated that Sudhir was their son-in-law
and if they wished, they could give him the money. He told them
that they may sell their gold jewelery and satisfy the needs of
Sudhir Kumar and solve the problem. However, the father of
Sudhir did not accede with his request and on not receiving the
said amount, his son-in-law had started beating the deceased.
Due to the problems in the life of deceased, his wife had an heart
attack. About three months back, his deceased daughter had sent
a voice message through Whatsapp on the mobile phone of her
elder daughter Aarti, wherein she stated that accused Ram Sakhi
and Sudhir were demanding the money. Thereafter, on
14.07.2018 on the occasion of his marriage anniversary, Pooja
came to their house and told her mother that she would never
come back to his house. On 28.07.2018, one neighbour of in-
laws of deceased Pooja had called them to inform about the ill
condition of deceased and further that she was being taken to
SGM Hospital. When they reached at the hospital, they saw that
their daughter Pooja had expired. On the aforesaid statement, an FIR u/s
304B/498A/34 IPC was registered. The postmortem of the
deceased was got conducted. In the postmortem, doctor opined
the cause of death as "asphyxia as a result of ante-mortem
hanging". After the postmortem, the dead body was handed over
to the family members of the deceased. During the investigation, State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 3/28
 Aarti produced her mobile phone and one CD allegedly
containing the voice mail sent by deceased Pooja to her. Accused Ram Sakhi was not arrested but was placed
in column no. 11. In the charge-sheet, it was stated that the
supplementary charge-sheet along with CDR of the mobile
phones of deceased and Aarti would be filed. Later on, the FSL
result dated 30.09.2019 was filed on the record. The said FSL
result pertains to one mobile phone make Karbonn and another
mobile phone make Micromax. 3. The Ld. Magistrate committed the case to the Court of
Sessions after compliance of the relevant provisions. The charge against the accused: 4. The accused persons namely Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi
did not plead guilty for offences u/s 498A / 34 , u/s 304B/34 as
well as for the alternate charge u/s 306 / 34 IPC framed and they
claimed trial. The evidence by the prosecution: 5. To prove the afore-mentioned charge against the accused
persons, the prosecution got examined eight witnesses in all. For
the sake of convenience, a brief description of testimonies of all
the prosecution witnesses including the oral as well as
documentary evidence, in tabular form, is as under:- PW-5 HC Nemi He being the DD writer at PS Nihal Vihar,
Chand recorded DD No. 10A dated 28.07.2018. He
 was also working as MHC(M) and deposed
 about making the relevant entries in register
 no. 19 regarding deposition of case property.
PW-6 Smt. Aarti She is the younger sister of deceased. She
 deposed about receipt of a voice mail on her
 Whatsapp from the mobile phone of deceased
 wherein she had levelled serious allegations
 against the accused persons. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 5/28
 Ex.PW-1/E Brief facts of the case prepared the IO, duly attested
 by SDM. Ex. PW-1/F Form no. 25.35(1) (B)
Ex.PW-1/G Statement of Sh. Sita Ram and Dinesh regarding
 dead body identification of deceased. 6. During the trial, Ld. Counsel for accused persons moved
an application u/s 311 Cr.P.C for recalling PW-8 Inspector Raj
Pal Singh. The said application was allowed and PW-8 Inspector

State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 6/28
 Raj Pal Singh was cross-examined u/s 311 Cr.P.C by the Ld.
Counsel for accused. The statement of accused persons u/s 294 Cr.P.C: 7. Statement of the accused persons u/s 294 Cr.P.C was also
recorded, wherein they admitted the contents and genuineness of
following documents:- 8. The statements of both the accused persons u/s 313 Cr.P.C
were recorded. The incriminating circumstances appearing in
evidence against the accused were brought to their notice and
their explanations were sought. They denied the allegations
against them and stated that parents and elder sister of deceased
used to pressurize her to reside near their residence due to which
deceased used to remain in stress. Further, deceased was in
mental trauma, however the complainant falsely implicated
accused persons in the present case in order to extort money from
them. Accused persons wished to lead defence evidence.
However, later on in view of the submissions of Ld. Counsel for
both the accused at bar, DE was closed. Submissions by Ld. Prosecutor: 9. Ld. Prosecutor while inviting the attention of the court
towards the oral as well as documentary evidence on record
argued that the prosecution has been able to prove the charges
framed against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. He
vehemently contented that the prosecution has been able to prove
that the deceased had committed suicide within seven years of
her marriage due to cruelty and harassment in connection with
the demand of dowry committed by her mother-in-law and
husband and also that soon before death of the deceased, there
was a demand of dowry. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 8/28
 Submissions by Ld. Counsel for accused persons: 10. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for accused persons argued
that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case against
the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt. He argued that the
prosecution has failed to show on record that soon before her
death, deceased was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her
mother-in-law and husband in connection with dowry. He prayed
for the acquittal of the accused persons. 11. I have heard the final arguments advanced by the Ld. Addl.
Prosecutor for the State and the Ld. Counsel for the accused
persons. Analysis: 12. It is settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that the
prosecution has to prove the case against the accused beyond
reasonable doubt and the accused has to prove its defence on
preponderance of probabilities. What do we mean by the
expression 'beyond reasonable doubt'? 13. The said expression 'beyond reasonable doubt' has been
defined by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the various judgments.
In the judgment of Paramjeet Singh @ Pamma Vs. State of
Uttarakhand, 2011CRI.L.J.663, Hon'ble Mr. Justice Dr. B. S.
Chauhan, elaborated the concept of Standard of Proof in a
criminal trial in the following terms: 14. Furthermore, in the judgment of Sucha Singh and
Another Vs. State of Punjab , (2003 ) 7 SCC 643, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court explained the term beyond reasonable doubt
and observed as under:- Ashok Kumar Srivastava, AIR 1992 SC 840 : 1992(3) RCR(Crl.) 63 State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 10/28
 (SC)]. A reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or merely
 possible doubt, but a fair doubt based upon reason and common
 sense. It must grow out of the evidence in the case. If a case is
 proved perfectly, it is argued that it is artificial; if a case has some
 flaws inevitable because human beings are prone to err, it is argued
 that it is too imperfect. One wonders whether in the meticulous
 hypersensitivity to eliminate a rare innocent from being punished,
 many guilty persons must be allowed to escape. Proof beyond
 reasonable doubt is a guideline, not a fetish. [See Inder Singh and
 Anr. v. State of (Delhi Admn .) (AIR 1978 SC 1091)]. Vague hunches
 cannot take place of judicial evaluation. "A judge does not preside
 over a criminal trial, merely to see that no innocent man is
 punished. A judge also presides to see that a guilty man does not
 escape. Both are public duties." (Per Viscount Simon in Stirland v.
 Director of Public Prosecution (1944 AC (PC) 315) quoted in State
 of U.P. v. Anil Singh , AIR 1988 SC 1998). Doubts would be called
 reasonable if they are free from a zest for abstract speculation. Law
 cannot afford any favourite other than truth. 15. Both the accused have been charged for the offences u/s
498A / 304B / 34 IPC and in alternative for the offence u/s 306 / 34 IPC. 16. Section 304 B which defines and provides the punishment
for dowry demand, reads as under:- Section 304B (1) defines 'dowry death' of a woman. It
 provides that 'dowry death' is where death of a woman is
 caused by burning or bodily injuries or occurs otherwise than
 under normal circumstances, within seven years of marriage,
 and it is shown that soon before her death, she was subjected State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 11/28
 to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her
 husband, in connection with demand for dowry. Subclause
 (2) provides for punishment for those who cause dowry
 death. 17. In Major Singh v. State of Punjab , (2015) 5 SCC 201,
the Hon'ble Supreme Court held the following essential
ingredients of 304B IPC . The relevant observations are
reproduced hereunder:- 18. Now, let us discuss if the prosecution has been able to
prove the essential ingredients of the offence u/s 304 B IPC
against the accused persons. I. Death of a woman by burn or bodily injuries or
otherwise than a 'normal circumstance': 19. The first essential ingredient for the offence u/s 304 B IPC
is that the death of the woman should be caused by burns or
bodily injury or otherwise than under a 'normal circumstance'. As
per the postmortem report Ex.P-10 the cause of death was
opined by the doctor as "asphyxia as a result of ante-mortem
hanging and the manner of death as suicide". The fact that the
deceased had committed suicide leaves no doubt that the State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 12/28
 deceased had actually died by committing suicide and her death
was 'otherwise than under normal circumstances'. Therefore, the
first ingredient of Section 304 B IPC is satisfied. II. The death should have occurred within seven years of
marriage: 20. The second requirement to frame charge for offence u/s
304 B IPC is that the death of the woman should have occurred
within seven years of marriage. From the oral testimonies of PW-
2 Sh. Sita Ram, PW-3 Savitri, the father and mother of deceased
respectively as well as the statements of both the accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C as well as the other documentary evidence i.e. marriage
card and the marriage photographs, it is not disputed that the
deceased was married with accused Sudhir Kumar on
08.05.2017. The deceased committed suicide on 28.07.2018 i.e.
within a span of one year only. Therefore, it is proved on the
record that the deceased died within seven years of her marriage.
Accordingly, it is held that the second ingredient of section 304B IPC also stands proved. III. The deceased woman must have been subjected to
cruelty or harassment 'by husband or any relative of
husband': "9. It is relevant here to state that the expression "relative of
 the husband" has been used in Section 498-A of the I.P.C.
 While interpreting the said expression, this Court in the case
 of U. Suvetha vs. State by Inspector of Police and Anr. (2009)
 6 SCC 787 held it to mean a person related by blood, marriage
 or adoption. Relevant portion of the judgment reads as
 follows: would depend upon the nature of the statute. It
 principally includes a person related by blood, marriage
 or adoption." 10. The expression relative of the husband further came up for
 consideration in the case of Vijeta Gajra vs. State of NCT of
 Delhi (2010)11 SCC 618 and while approving the decision of
 this Court in U. Suvetha (Supra), it was held that the word
 relative would be limited only to the blood relations or the
 relations by marriage. It is appropriate to reproduce the
 following passage from the said judgment : State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 14/28 11. It is well known rule of construction that when the
 Legislature uses same words in different part of the statute,
 the presumption is that those words have been used in the
 same sense, unless displaced by the context. We do not find
 anything in context to deviate from the general rule of
 interpretation. Hence, we have no manner of doubt that the
 word "relative of the husband" in Section 304 B of the IPC
 would mean such persons, who are related by blood, marriage
 or adoption." 22. In view of the aforesaid settled propositions of law, it is to
be seen whether the accused persons are the husband or any
relative of the husband. There is sufficient material on the record
also the statement of accused persons u/s 313 Cr.P.C, to hold that
accused Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi are the husband and
mother-in-law of deceased. Accordingly, it is held that both the
accused fall within the purview of section 304B IPC. Thus, the
third essential ingredient of section 304 B IPC also stands
satisfied. IV. Cruelty and harassment of the woman by husband or
relative for dowry in connection with the marriage : 23. Now, let us discuss if the prosecution has been able to
prove the aforesaid two essential ingredients or not. For the said
purpose, the testimonies of PW-2, Sh. Sita Ram, PW-3, Smt.
Savitri and PW-6, Smt. Aarti are relevant. They are the father,
mother and sister respectively of the deceased. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 15/28 24. PW-2 Sh. Sita Ram, father of deceased, in his examination
in chief, deposed that the father of accused Sudhir did not
demand any dowry prior to the marriage of his daughter and the
marriage was performed according to his financial capacity and
there were no complaint by deceased for about one and half
month. However, after about two months of marriage, accused
persons started harassing his daughter and started demanding one
bullet motorcycle and Rs. 60,000/- for education of accused
Sudhir. PW-2 deposed that his daughter informed the said fact to
his wife i.e. PW-3 Savitri. PW-2 also deposed that after 9-10
months of marriage, his elder daughter Aarti received a voice
message from the deceased stating that she was very upset at her
matrimonial home and when after two days Aarti alongwith her
husband and brother went to the matrimonial home of deceased
and enquired about the reasons of sending the said voice
message, deceased told them that her mother in law had stated
something to her due to which she was upset and sent the said
message. PW-2 also deposed that 8-9 months after the marriage
of his daughter, he went to her matrimonial home where he met
the father of accused Sudhir and told him the fact that accused
Sudhir had been demanding bullet motorcycle and Rs. 60,000/-
and harassing his daughter. PW-2 also asked the father of accused
Sudhir to sell the jewellery given by him in the marriage and
fulfill the demand of accused Sudhir whereupon father of
accused assured PW-2 that he would make his son understand.
PW-2 further deposed that about 8-9 months after the marriage,
on one occasion, he had a telephonic conversation with accused
Sudhir and told him that PW-2 had already given him whatever State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 16/28
 he had whereupon accused Sudhir said to PW-2 that "mere ko
aapse koi baat nahi karni aur mujhe to paise aur bullet chaiye" 25. PW-3 Smt. Savitri deposed that after marriage of deceased
with accused Sudhir, for about 1½-2 months, everything
remained proper, but after that her daughter started complaining
about the harassment by her in-laws. PW-3 further deposed that
her daughter told her that accused Sudhir had demanded a bullet
motorcycle and Rs. 60,000/- for his study. She deposed that on
the occasion of her marriage anniversary on 14.07.2018, her
daughter and accused Sudhir visited her house and her daughter
told that accused Sudhir and Ram Sakhi did not allow her to visit
her parental house as they were repeatedly demanding money for
purchasing bullet motorcycle. In her cross-examination by accused, she deposed that
before one week of marriage, the accused started making
demands. PW-3 admitted that after marriage, her daughter was
happy or that till the death of her daughter, she had never made
any complaint to the police even after receipt of voice message. 26. PW-6 Smt. Aarti, who is the sister of deceased, deposed in
her examination-in-chief that on 13.05.2018, she received a voice
message on Whatsapp wherein her sister levelled serious
allegations against accused Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi. PW-6 was cross-examined by the accused wherein she
admitted that her sister never made any complaint to her parents
regarding the cruelty. However, she denied that her sister was
living happily with her husband and in-laws at her matrimonial
house. She further admitted that there is nothing about the
beatings and cruelty caused by the accused to her sister in the CD

State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 18/28
 when played in the court. She also admitted that deceased never
made any compliant to her parents regarding the cruelty. She
denied that her parents used to pressurize the deceased to shift
nearby their house. PW-6 denied the suggestion that she had not
received any voice message from deceased or that she had
deposed falsely at the instance of her parents. 27. Since the prosecution is required that the cruelty or
harassment in connection with demand of dowry has to take
place 'soon before the death' of the woman, one needs to
understand as to what the said expression means. The term "soon
before death" is an elastic term and no straight jacket formula or
fix criterion can be laid down. In the judgment of Kans Raj vs.
State of Punjab and Ors. (26.04.2000-SC): MANU/ SC/ 0296/
2000, the Hon'ble Supreme Court explained the term "soon
before death" in the following observations:- 28. Hence, the term "soon before death" is an elastic term and
it does not specify any time duration before the death of the
bride. What it pre-supposes is that the demand of dowry must
have been a reasonable connection or nexus with the death and
the demand should have travelled for a reasonable period of time. 29. Now the prosecution is left to prove two more ingredients
which are that the deceased was subjected to cruelty or
harassment by the husband or his relatives for dowry in
connection with the marriage and further that such cruelty or
harassment must have taken place soon before the death of the
deceased. 30. Having gone through the oral and documentary evidence
on record, this court is of the considered opinion that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the same due to the
following reasons:- examination by the Ld. Prosecutor, he admitted the same.
 Though nothing adverse can be found regarding the same, but
 still his statement is not believable as the same was one of
 most important development which was not deposed by PW-2
 in his statement Ex.PW-1/A. No reason has been assigned as to
 why the said important fact was not mentioned by him in his
 statement Ex.PW-1/A.
 b. PW-2 in his examination-in-chief stated that before the
 marriage, the father of the accused did not demand anything
 and he performed the marriage accordingly to his financial
 capacity and the problem started after one and half month of
 the marriage. However, in cross-examination, he stated that
 after 2-3 days of marriage when her daughter had come to his
 house alongwith accused Sudhir, he demanded from him a
 bullet motorcycle and Rs. 60,000/- for his education and
 further that he would not take the deceased back to his home.
 On explanation sought on two statements, he stated that his
 both statements were correct. The same clearly shows that the
 witness had improved at the time of his cross-examination
 from his earlier statement and thus, cannot be relied upon.
 c. In his statement Ex.PW-1/A, PW-2 stated that one day
 after one and half month of marriage, his daughter told him State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 21/28
 that accused Sudhir had demanded a Sum of Rs. 60,000/- and a
 bullet motorcycle. However, in the cross-examination, he
 admitted that deceased Pooja had informed him about the
 aforesaid demand to her mother and her mother i.e. his wife
 told him the same. Thus, the witness did not support his
 version given in his initial statement Ex.PW-1/A.
 d. PW-2 deposed that after 8-9 months of the marriage, he
 called one Sandeep and father of accused Sudhir to his house
 for settlement. Sandeep acted as a mediator in the marriage of
 his daughter. They came at his house alongwith the deceased.
 At that time, the father of accused received a phone call from
 him which was handed over to him wherein Sudhir demanded
 bullet and money. However, the prosecution has not produced
 Sandeep as a witness in this case. Therefore, there is no
 corroboration to the aforesaid statement of PW-2. Moreover,
 the aforesaid statement appears to be an improvement as there
 is nothing in the complaint Ex.PW-1/A in this regard.
 Moreover, the prosecution has not proved on record any CDR
 to corroborate the aforesaid deposition of the witness.
 e. Furthermore, PW-2 had deposed that on 14.07.2018, on
 the occasion of his marriage anniversary, her daughter and
 accused Sudhir came to his house and his daughter told him
 that she will not come back and when his wife inquired, her
 daughter stated to him that she remained busy in household
 work. However, in the cross-examination, he improved again
 and stated that her daughter stated that uske ghar me kalesh
 rehta hai. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 22/28
 PW-3, the mother of the deceased also stated that till 1
 and half months of the marriage, the things remained good, but
 thereafter her daughter informed her that the accused Sudhir
 demanded Rs. 60,000/- and one bullet motorcycle from her.
 She did not depose that accused Ram Sakhi demanded any
 dowry, but rather stated that she used to remain angry with the
 deceased. However, she did not depose anything about the
 alleged visit of her husband and her son to the matrimonial
 house of the deceased 3-4 days prior to the death. Therefore,
 the deposition of PW-2 did not find any corroboration from
 PW-3. f. PW-6 Ms. Aarti is the sister of the deceased. She had
 placed on record a CD containing the voice message allegedly
 containing the serious allegations by deceased against both the
 accused persons. However, neither PW-2 nor PW-6 deposed
 about the allegations in their testimonies to prove the alleged
 voice message. The IO had sent two mobile phone of Karbon
 and Micromax make alongwith the SIM cards. However, the
 FSL report Ex.AD-X does not support the prosecution case as
 no data could be found from the mobile phones and memory
 cards. The mobile make Micromax could no be opened up as
 it was found encrypted with the pattern lock. Therefore, no
 scientific evidence has come against the accused on the record.
 g. Another important aspect is that a careful perusal of
 evidence of PW-2 would reveal that whenever he asked his
 daughter as to how she was in his matrimonial home, she used
 to say that she was happy and even when he went to his
 matrimonial home, she stated that she did not face any State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 23/28
 problem. He further stated that even after 14.07.2018,
 deceased used to say that she was happy. He further stated that
 on 27.07.2018, at about 1/ 1.15 p.m the deceased was happy
 when he talked to her on the mobile phone. It is needless to
 mention here that the deceased committed suicide on
 28.07.2018. In the cross-examination also, he admitted that
 whenever he had gone to the house of his daughter, she used to
 say that she was happy. Therefore, the same demonstrates that
 even one day before the death also, the deceased did not raise
 any incident of cruelty or harassment. h. Furthermore, it has come on the record in the testimony
 of PW-2 that accused Sudhir already had two bikes before the
 marriage and he was employed. PW-2 also did not specify as
 to for what course the accused Sudhir was demanding money
 from him. Thus, it does not appeal to the common sense that
 when no demand of dowry was made before the marriage and
 the groom had two bikes, he would still demand another bike
 from his in-laws. The same is not believable.
 i. PW-2 also deposed that accused Ram Sakhi never
 demanded anything directly from him. PW-3 and PW-6 also
 did not depose anything against accused Ram Sakhi. Thus, no
 evidence has come against accused Ram Sakhi at all. 31. In view of the aforesaid circumstances, this court is of the
considered opinion that the prosecution has miserably failed to
prove the aforesaid two essential ingredients against the accused
persons and thus, failed to prove Section 304B / 34 IPC.
Accordingly, accused persons stands acquitted from the
offence u/s 304B / 34 IPC. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 24/28 32. As far as Section 498A IPC is concerned, it is to be seen
whether a married woman has been subjected to cruelty by her
husband or relatives of her husband either for harassment with a
view to coerce meeting a demand of dowry or willful conduct by
her husband or his relative of such a nature as is likely to lead the
lady to commit suicide or to cause grave injury to her life, limb
or health. For the purpose of Section 498A, the cruelty can be
either physical or mental. 33. To decide whether the prosecution has been able to prove Section 498A IPC, the testimonies of PW-2, PW-3 and PW-6 are
important. However, none of the witnesses has deposed about
any cruelty or harassment having been committed by any of the
accused persons of such a nature which have been prescribed in Section 498A IPC. Rather the testimonies of all the aforesaid
witnesses would show that there are no specific incidents of
cruelty or harassment. None of the witnesses have deposed
anything about the same. There is no evidence on the record to
suggest that the accused persons willfully conducted themselves
in such a manner which was likely to drive the deceased to
commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or
health and she was harassed with a view to coerce her or any
family member to meet any unlawful demand for any property or
valuable security or the conduct was on account of failure by her
or any person related to her to meet any such demand. Thus, this
court has no hesitation in holding that not a scintilla of evidence
has come on record to prove the charge u/s 498A IPC against the
accused persons. Accordingly, accused persons also stand
acquitted for the offence u/s 498 A IPC as well. State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 25/28 34. Now remains section 306 IPC which provides the
punishment for the abetment of a suicide of a person. Abetment
has been defined u/s 107 IPC. It says that a person abates the
doing of a thing who instigate any person to do that thing or
engages with one or more persons in any conspiracy for the
doing of that thing and intentionally aids, by any act or illegal
commission in the doing of that thing. The prosecution case at
best is covered under the first clause of section 107 i.e. of
instigation only. 35. It is not necessary that the actual words must be used to
that effect or what constitute instigation must necessarily and
specifically be suggestive of that consequence. Yet a reasonable
certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being
spelt. 36. It is also settled law that whether the person has abetted the
commission of suicide of another or not is a question to be gath-
ered from the facts and circumstances of the case and to be found
out by the continuous conduct of the accused involving his men-
tal element. 37. In Amlendu Pal vs State of West Bengal (2010) 1 SCC
707, the Hon'ble Supreme Court after considering the several ear-
lier pronouncements held as under:- 38. Now, let us see the facts of the case in view of the
aforesaid propositions of law for offence u/s 306 IPC. At the cost
of the repetition, again the testimonies of aforesaid PWs need to
be taken into consideration. PW-2, PW-3 and PW-6 are the
relevant witnesses as they are the family members of the
deceased. Their testimonies have already been discussed
hereinabove. The testimonies of the aforesaid witnesses do not
show that the accused persons were indulged in such behaviour
or conduct towards the deceased that the same could have
amounted to any instigated to the commission of suicide by the
deceased. There is nothing on record that deceased was pushed
to the wall by the accused persons by their conduct to such an
extent that there was no other alternative left to the deceased, but
to commit suicide. I have already discussed the testimonies of
PWs. However, there is nothing in their testimonies that the
conduct of the accused led the deceased to commit suicide.
Hence, no evidence to prove section 306 IPC has come on the
record. Therefore, this court has no other option, but to acquit
the accused persons from the offence u/s 306 IPC as well. Conclusion: 39. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am of the opinion
that the prosecution has failed to prove charges against both the State Vs Sudhir Kumar & Anr SC No. 829/2018 FIR No.463/2018 27/28
 accused persons and thus, failed to prove its case beyond
reasonable doubt. Therefore, both the accused persons namely
Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi stand acquitted from the
offences u/s 498A / 304B / 34 IPC and in alternative for the
offence u/s 306 / 34 IPC as well. 40. Earlier Bail bonds of both the accused persons stand
discharged. The original documents of their previous respective
sureties, if any be returned to them after cancellation of
endorsement and upon the identification of the sureties. 41. The bail bonds furnished u/s 437 A Cr.P.C of accused
namely Sudhir Kumar and Ram Sakhi are extended for a period
of six months for the purpose of Section 437A Cr.P.C. After the
expiry of six months, their bail bonds shall stand cancelled and
surety bonds discharged. Original documents of sureties, if any
be returned after cancellation of endorsement and upon the
identification of the sureties. Case property, if any be destroyed
after the expiry of period of appeal. 42. File be consigned to Record Room.