This petition is filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India to issue a writ of Certiorari, setting aside the proceedings in
G.O.Ms.No.21 Social Welfare (CV2) Department, dated 28.02.2004 
declaring the same as illegal, arbitrary, contrary to the rules,
principles of natural justice and to pass consequential orders. 02. The petitioner Smt.Janni Ganga, is the daughter of Sri
Janni Gumpa Swamy, who belongs to schedule tribe. In the year 
1972 at the age of 10 years, she was admitted in Panchayat Samithi
School, Komarada in Vizianagaram District in first class by her
father. At that time necessary entries were made in the school
records mentioning her caste as 'JATHAPU' which is a scheduled 
tribe. By the date of her admission into school, she was only a
minor and basing on the information furnished by her father, those
entries were made. She prosecuted her studies up to V class in the
Panchayat Samithi School and later completed her studies in Z.P.
High School, Komarada up to X class and she passed X class in the 
year 1983. In all the school records, her caste was shown as
'JATHAPU' which is the scheduled tribe, daughter of Janni Gumpa
Swamy. During prosecution of studies, she was a boarder in Tribal
Welfare Ashram Girls Hostel, Komarada, enjoyed all the benefits of a
student belonging to scheduled tribe. She obtained a community
certificate from Mandal Revenue Officer, Komarada on 26.09.1986,
who certified that she belongs to scheduled tribe, secured
employment in the year 1986 as a Single Teacher in the Integrated
Tribal Welfare Development Agency, her name was sponsored for 
training in Teacher Training Course by ITDA and after completion of
her training, in the year 1988, she joined in employment. 03. While the matter stood thus, in the year 1990 Sub-
Collector, Parvathipuram has cancelled her caste/community 
certificate issued by the Mandal Revenue Officer, Komarada on the
complaint of Janni Gumpa Swamy, who is the father of the
petitioner, wherein he stated that the petitioner is the daughter of
another G.Gumpa Swamy, who belongs to Koppala Velama caste, 
who managed to substitute the petitioner in the place of Janni
Ganga D/o.Janni Gumpa Swamy, who discontinued her studies 
long back. The reason for such complaint is that the petitioner
married one Tangudubilli Satyanarayana who belongs to backward 
class, against the will of her father. She further contended that her
children are enjoying the benefits of backward community obtaining
'BC' caste certificate. 04. Challenging the order passed by the Sub-Collector,
Parvathipuram, the petitioner filed W.P.2259 of 1992 which was
allowed by this Court on 29.07.1999 setting aside the order of the
Sub-Collector on the ground of competency, however permitted to
initiate fresh inquiry. 05. Consequent to the order of the Sub-Collector,
Parvathipuram, she was terminated from the service by ITDA,
Parvathipuram, and the same was questioned before the A.P. 
Administrative Tribunal in O.A. No.2101/1992, the same was set
aside by the Tribunal on 03.02.1999 holding that the ITDA failed to
follow the CCA rules. In view of the orders passed by the High
Court and Tribunal, she was reinstated by proceedings dated
29.01.2002 by ITDA Parvathipuram, while, placing her under
suspension; later, in pursuance of the directions of the High Court
in W.P. No.2259 of 1992 dated 29.07.1999, conducted an inquiry by
District Level Scrutiny Committee headed by the Joint Collector as
Chairman and in the said inquiry, her father Janni Gumpa Swamy 
appeared and deposed denying the complaint against the petitioner,
while stating that the petitioner was not born to him, but he
adopted the petitioner as he had no female child by that time and
whereabouts of her natural parents were not known. The petitioner
for the first time came to know that she was not born to Janni
Gumpa Swamy with whom she was leaving since her childhood. 
She also appeared before the District Level Scrutiny Committee and
testified that she does not know who are her parents till that date
and from whom she was brought by Janni Gumpa Swamy, but in all 
her school records it was recorded that she was the daughter of
Janni Gumpa Swamy, and that she never misrepresented any fact 
before the school authorities, at the time of her employment also
she did not make any misrepresentation and she is under bonafide
impression that she is the daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy, but 
the District Level Scrutiny Committee, unfortunately, concluded
that her name was G.Hymavathi and she was substituted in the 
name of J.Ganga, who discontinued her studies, since the petitioner
failed to produce any record in support of her claim. 06. On the basis of the District Level Scrutiny Committee
report, the second respondent issued proceedings No.1576/99 C5, 
dated 13.05.2002 whereby cancelled her caste certificate. Aggrieved
by the same she preferred an appeal, but the order of the second
respondent was confirmed in the appeal, and issued GOMs.No.21 
Social Welfare (CVS) Department, dated 28.02.2004. The action of
the respondents passing order in G.O.Ms.No.21 Social Welfare (CVS) 
Department, dated 28.02.2004 is illegal, highly arbitrary and
contrary to the rules and in violation of the principles of natural
justice. 07. The specific contention, from the beginning, is that the
respondents without appreciation of facts and law declared by the
courts, come to such conclusion that her name-G.Hymavathi was 
substituted in the place of J.Ganga in the school registers and the
same is without any basis. She also contended that the copy of the
complaint as well as the report of the committee was not furnished
to enable to defend her case effectively. Therefore, the order passed
by the second respondent is in violation of principles of natural
justice. In fact, the complaint was against Guntreddy
Gumpaswamy who is said to be her father, and was not summoned 
before the committee nor examined. Therefore, GOMs. No.21, Social 
Welfare (CVS) Department dated 28.02.2004 is illegal and prayed to
set aside the same by passing consequential orders. 08. The respondents did not file any counter. 09. During hearing, Sri M.Kesava Rao, learned counsel for the
petitioner, did not raise any specific ground to invalidate the order
passed by the second respondent canceling her caste certificate,
more particularly, pointing out the irregularities in the procedure
followed by the District Level Scrutiny Committee or by the second
respondent, but contended that she cannot be removed from service
after long lapse of time, placing reliance on two Judgments of the
Apex Court reported in DIRECTOR OF TRIBUNAL WELFARE, 
GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH V. LAVETI GIRI AND 
ANOTHER , STATE OF MAHARASTRA V. MILIND AND OTHERS 
and prayed to permit the petitioner to continue in service till
attaining the age of superannuation. 10. Per contra, learned Government Pleader for Revenue (AP)
and learned Government Pleader for Services-II (AP) supported the
order under challenge in all respects. It is specifically contended
that in the absence of violation of any order, rules or statutory
provision by the authorities in passing impugned order by the
second respondent and G.O.Ms.No.21 Social Welfare (CVS) 
Department, dated 28.02.2004 passed by the Government, this 
Court cannot interfere with such administrative orders and prayed
to dismiss the writ petition. 11. Considering rival contentions, perusing the material
available on record, the point that arise for consideration is,
"Whether the District Level Scrutiny Committee and the
respondents followed the prescribed procedure under the
Andhra Pradesh (SC, ST & BCs) Regulation of Issue of 
Community Certificates Act, 1993 and Rules, 1997. If so,
whether this Court by exercising the power of judicial review
can interfere with such GO MS No.21 Social Welfare (CVS) 
Department dated 28.02.2004?" 12. A bare look at the contents of the affidavit that the
petitioner is unaware about her parents but she was living with
Janni Gumpa Swamy and she was treated as his daughter from her 
childhood, admitted in school by Janni Gumpa Swamy mentioning 
her caste as 'JATHAPU' which is a scheduled tribe. But the said
Janni Gumpa Swamy made a complaint to the respondents that she 
does not belong to scheduled tribe, obtained Caste/Community 
certificate as if she belongs to scheduled tribe, though she belongs
to Koppelavelama Community, which is a backward class, and after 
conducting inquiry by the Sub-Collector, Parvathipuram, cancelled
her social status certificate (Caste/Community certificate), but the
same was set aside by this Court in W.P.No.2259 of 1992 by order 
dated 29.07.1999 while permitting the respondents to hold inquiry
by competent authority. 13. In pursuance of the directions particularly given by this
Court, to initiate necessary inquiry, to decide caste or social status
of the petitioner, District Level Scrutiny Committee headed by the
Joint Collector was taken up the issue and conducted inquiry before
whom Janni Gumpa Swamy deposed that the petitioner was 
adopted by him, as he was not blessed with female child by that
time, while denying the complaint and admitted that whereabouts of
her natural parents were not known. Thus, according to the
evidence of the said Janni Gumpa Swamy, the petitioner was his
adopted daughter. The petitioner is unaware about her parents as
she was taken into adoption by Janni Gumpa Swamy during her 
childhood and she was treated as daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy 
through out her education and school records disclosed the same.
Strangely the petitioner testified before the Committee that she did
not make any misrepresentation either before school authorities at
the time of admission or before the Government at the time of
securing employment, since she was under the impression that she 
was the daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy. But the Committee 
found that her name was substituted in the school register in the
place of J.Ganga, though the petitioner's name is G.Hymavathi, to
claim benefits of scheduled tribes including reservation etc. The 
report of the said Committee is placed on record and the contents of
the report shows that Janni Gumpa Swamy belongs to scheduled 
tribe residing at Sominaidu Valasa Village in Komarada Mandal. He
submitted a petition to the Project Officer, ITDA, complaining that
the petitioner is the daughter of Guntreddy Gumpaswamy of
Gangareguvalasa Village, who belongs to Koppelavelama 
Community and managed to get his daughter Guntreddy Hymavathi 
admitted in elementary school, Komarada, in the vacant admission
number allotted to Janni Ganga and after completion of X class by
producing false social status certificate (caste certificate) as if she
belongs to 'JATHAPU' (Scheduled Tribe) from the Komarada Village 
secured employment in ITDA. Immediately the complaint was 
referred to Sub-Collector, Parvathipuram, for necessary action. 14. The Mandal Revenue Officer, Komarada has conducted 
preliminary inquiry at the village level. During inquiry on
20.09.1988 Sri Janni Gumpuswamy S/o.Kantanna Dora of 
Sominaidu Valasa Village, appeared and testified that he belongs to
Konda Dora community, he was blessed with three sons and one 
daughter and that he admitted that his daughter Kum.Ganga 
admitted in elementary school and also in the hostel for one year,
but she discontinued her studies on account of the death of his
wife, i.e. mother of Ganga, but her name is continued in the school,
however, denied the signature on the application being an illiterate,
more particularly, deputation of his daughter to any training,
therein. 15. The petitioner further testified that Guntreddy Hymavathi
is the third daughter of Guntreddy Gumpa Swamy of 
Ramabhadrapuram Village and daughter-in-law of Tangudubilli
Chaittayya of Ramabhadrapuram Village. Unfortunately, the said
Janni Gumpa Swamy also testified that the relatives of the
petitioner tried to influence Janni Gumpa Swamy, but he did not
yield to the influence. 16. During enquiry, one Padala Gumpa Swmay Naidu and one 
Jagana Simhachalam Naidu and other elders of Gangareguvalasa 
Village were also examined, in one voice they stated that Janni
Gumpa Swamy was blessed with three sons viz., Narayana Rao, 
Krishna and Chiranjivi and one daughter by name Ganga, W/o. 
Marri Ram Dasu of Pedakharjala Village and that the petitioner was
the daughter of Guntreddi Gumpa Swamy of Ramabhadrapuram 
Village and that they never heard about adoption of said Hymavathi
by Janni Gumpa Swamy. In the process of inquiry the committee 
obtained the extract of Admission Register of MPP Elementary 
School, Ramabhadrapuram Village, and the date of birth of the
Hyma D/o. Gumpa Swamy was recorded as 12.05.1963, as per 
admission and withdrawal register of MPP Elementary School, 
Gangureguvalasa Village the date of birth of the petitioner-Janni
Ganga was 01.07.1966 and as per the Admission Register of MPP 
Elementary School, Komarada, her date of birth was recorded as
19.10.1962. Thus, there is any amount of discrepancy in the date
of birth recorded in the school register of Gangureguvalasa and
Komarada Villages respectively. In the admission register of MPP
elementary school of Komarada, the caste/community of Hymavathi 
is recorded as Koppelavelama. Thus, initially, in the school register,
her social status was mentioned as Koppelavelama which is 
backward class. Had the petitioner belongs to Jathapu or Konda
dora, her caste would have been mentioned as Jathapu or Konda 
Dora. Thus it is clear from the material on record that the
petitioner does not belong to scheduled tribe, she belongs to
Koppelavelama community. But the report of Sub-Collector was set
aside by this Court in W.P. No.2259 of 1992 vide order dated
25.07.1999, thereupon, a fresh inquiry was held by the District
Level scrutiny Committee in terms of Section 9(1) of the Andhra
Pradesh (SC, ST & BCs) Regulation of Issue of Community 
Certificates Act, 1993 and Rules, 1997. In the process of inquiry,
the committee issued notice to Smt. Janni Ganga directing her to
appear on 18.12.2000, 24.03.2001, 10.04.2001 and 21.05.2001. on 
24.03.2001 Smt. Janni Ganga has filed written statement before the
District Level scrutiny Committee and deposed on 10.04.2001,
specifically stated that she used to live with Janni Gumpa Swamy,
she was admitted in school on the information furnished by her
father, Janni Gumpa Swamy. She does not know whether she was 
adopted through a deed and she does not know about the caste 
elders or community customs of 'JATHAPU' and recording her caste 
of 'JATHAPU' is mere clerical mistake, but she belongs to Konda
Dora caste/ community. She married a person belonging to Telukali
caste. Janni Gumpa Swamy also appeared before the Scrutiny 
Committee, but changed his initial stand contending that he
adopted Ganga, D/o. Guntreddy Gumpa swamy and Mahalakshmi, 
who belongs to Koppelavelama community of Gangureguvalasa 
Village, admitted her in elementary school of Komarada and he used
to take care of her. The statement of Janni Gumpa Swamy was not 
rebutted by producing any evidence by the petitioner, but admitted
in her statement dated 25.10.1991 before the Joint Collector that
her natural parents were Guntreddy Gumpa swamy and Smt. 
Mahalakshmi of Gangareguvalasa Village and they used to call her
as Hymavathi and she was given in adoption to Janni Gumpa 
Swamy of Sominaiduvalasa Village, when she was two years old. 
Thus she was adopted by Janni Gumpa swamy, admitted in school 
and thus there is any amount of controversy with regard to caste of
the petitioner because at one stage, Janni Gumpa swamy admitted 
that the petitioner was taken in adoption as he was not blessed with
female child by the date of adoption and at another stage, he denied
the very complaint itself, while admitting admission of the petitioner
into elementary school etc. 17. Initially the contention of the petitioner before the
Committee was that she was the daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy 
and she belongs to JATHAPU community which is a Scheduled 
Tribe, enjoyed all benefits of Scheduled Tribe while prosecuting her
studies boarding in tribal welfare hostel and secured employment.
But never made any misrepresentation to the authorities concerned
in obtaining admission into school, hostel and while securing
employment. 18. The Committee, vide Government Memo No.79/SLA & 
J/RL/C/2001 dated 15.02.2001 and Government Memo 
No.3149/C1/2000 BC Welfare (C1) Department dated 29.03.2001, 
issued notice to Janni Ganga, W/o. T.Satyanarayana, calling upon
to appear before the District Collector, Vizianagaram on 18.02.2002,
through Advocate, she filed written statement, but failed to produce
any fresh documentary evidence to prove that she belongs to
Scheduled Tribe and after compliance of the procedure submitted a
report and on the strength of the same, her caste certificate was
cancelled. 19. Even a bare look at the report of the District Level
Scrutiny Committee, there is any amount of discrepancy in the
stand of the petitioner and initially her stand was that she is the
daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy, later she changed her stand 
contending that she was taken into adoption by Janni Gumpa 
Swamy, but her school admission register disclosed otherwise and
she changed her date of birth from time to time when she was
shifted from one school to other school. Apart from that, her caste
was mentioned as Konda Dora and not as JATHAPU and she 
explained that she was mistakenly claiming that she belongs to
JATHAPU community, which is a scheduled tribe. Therefore, 
basing on the inconsistent plea of the petitioner, it is difficult to
conclude that she belongs to either Konda Dora community or 
JATHAPU community, scheduled tribe. 20. It is evident from the record that the petitioner is
uncertain about her caste, she is unable to establish either she
belong to JATHAPU or Konda Dora caste which are scheduled tribe. 
Similarly she admitted that she was born to Guntreddy Gumpa 
Swamy and Mahalakshmi (natural parents) but taken into adoption 
by Janni Gumpa Swamy as he was not blessed with daughter, 
moreover, the material on record disclosed that Janni Ganga was
the daughter of Janni Gumpa Swamy. Therefore, the contention
that the petitioner was taken in adoption by Janni Gumpa Swamy is
false on the face of record. In such case, the certificate of
community is based on spurious caste claim, who does not belong 
to scheduled tribe and snatched away the benefits of genuine tribal. 21. In MADHURI PATIL V. COMMISSIONER OF TRIBAL 
DEVELOPMENT while deciding similar issue of spurious caste 
claims and obtaining of appointments on the basis of false
certificate and held that it had the effect of depriving the genuine
scheduled castes or scheduled tribes of the benefits conferred on
them by the Constitution. It also found that appointment to posts
in the States is denied to genuine tribes and that ineligible or
spurious candidates who falsely gained entry resorted to dilatory
tactics and created hurdles in completion of inquiries by the
Scrutiny Committee, regarding their caste status. The Apex Court
issued fifteen guidelines for issue of community certificate as step
gap arrangements, till passing any legislation for the said purpose.
In pursuance of guidelines the State passed the regulations in 1997. 22. The Rules for issue of Community, Nativity and Date of
Birth certificate for SC, ST and Backward classes 1997 prescribed
procedure for making inquiry, as to the caste. Rule 5 of the said
rules deals with procedure for verification on receipt of the
application by the Competent Authority or any officer authorized to
issue such certificates and the applicant has to furnish complete
information contemplated in Form I/II and, then the Competent
Authority may further inquire, if necessary and examine school
records, birth registers, certificates etc. While conducting enquiry,
the Scrutiny Committee has to verify genuineness or otherwise of
the information furnished to it or recorded by it from such persons
who have given evidence, both oral and documentary and consider
the objections raised by any person during the enquiry by following
due process of law. It is not the case of the petitioner that officers of
committee violated Rule 5. 23. When the petitioner claiming that she belongs to
scheduled tribe, the burden of proof is on the applicant and it is the
responsibility of the applicant to produce necessary evidence/
documents while applying in Form I/II to the Competent Authority
and Review Committee at the State Level/ District Collector/
Scrutiny Committees at the District Level/ Government, from time
to time, while enquiring into the claims for the issue of Community,
Nativity and Date of Birth. 24. Thus, it is clear from Rule 6 that the burden heavily lies
upon the petitioner to produce evidence in support of her
contention. Here, the petitioner herself admitted in the writ affidavit
in paragraph 7 that she came to know for the first time that she was
born to Janni Gumpa Swamy with whom she was living and she 
does not know who are her parents, but from the childhood she is
living with Janni Gumpu Swamy as a member of his family and she 
was brought up. Thus, it is evident from paragraph 7 of the
affidavit she is not aware about her natural parents, but she was
brought up by Janni Gumpa Swamy and admitted in school etc., 
who belongs to scheduled tribe. On the other hand there is any
amount of discrepancy in the school admission register regarding
her date of birth and caste. Strangely when she gave statement
before the District Collector that she was the daughter of Guntreddi
Gumpa swamy and Mahalakshmi, but she was adopted by Janni 
Gumpa swamy. Thus she is changing her version from time to time 
to suit her case to claim the benefits of scheduled tribe. 25. Rule 8 of the Rules referred above deals with Scrutiny
Committee (District Level) and members of it, procedure to be
followed. In the entire affidavit filed along with the writ petition, the
petitioner did not complain violation of any statutory procedure
under the Act or Rules except questioning the findings recorded by
the committee. Therefore, in the absence of violation of any
statutory rule or provision, the findings arrived by the Committee
cannot be interfered, since, the power of judicial review under Article 226 in the Administrative Orders is limited as held by the
Apex Court in NAGENDRANATH BORA AND ANOTHER VS. THE 
COMMISSIONER OF HILLS DIVISION AND APPEALS, ASSAM AND 
OTHERS . Similarly when the Administrative Order is irrational and
not in accordance with law, such order can be interfered by the
Court while exercising the power of judicial review under Article 226 of the constitution of India. 26. In STATE OF A.P. V.CHITRA VENKATA RAO the Apex 
Court considered the scope of judicial review in dealing with the
departmental inquiries and held that the scope of Article 226 in
dealing with departmental inquiry has come up before this court.
Two propositions were laid down by this Court in STATE OF 
ANDHRA PRADESH V. S. SREE RAMA RAO . First, there is no 
warrant for the view that in considering whether a public officer is
guilty of misconduct charged against him. The rule followed in
criminal trials that an offence is not established unless proved by
evidence beyond reasonable doubt to the satisfaction of the Court
must be applied. If that rule be not applied by a domestic Tribunal
of Inquiry, the High Court in a petition under Article-226 of the
Constitution is not competent to declare the order of the authorities
holding a departmental inquiry as invalid. The High Court is not a
Court of Appeal under Article 226 over the decision of the
authorities holding a departmental enquiry against a public servant.
The Court is concerned to determine whether the enquiry is held by
an authority competent in that behalf and according to the
procedure prescribed in that behalf, and whether the rules of
natural justice are not violated. Second, where there is some
evidence which the authorities entrusted with the duty to hold the
enquiry has accepted and which evidence may reasonably support 
the conclusion that the delinquent officer is guilty of the charge, it is
not the function of the High Court to review the evidence and to
arrive at an independent finding on the evidence. The High Court
may interfere where the departmental authorities have held the
proceedings against the delinquent in a manner inconsistent with
the rules of natural justice or in violation of the statutory rules
prescribing the mode of enquiry or where the authorities have
disabled themselves from reaching a fair decision by some
considerations extraneous to the evidence and the merits of the case
or by allowing themselves to be influenced by irrelevant
considerations or where the conclusion on the very face of it is so
wholly arbitrary and capricious that no reasonable person could
ever have arrived at that conclusion. The same principle can be
applied even to the administrative orders. 27. The jurisdiction to issue a writ of certiorari under Article
226 is a supervisory jurisdiction. The Court exercises it not as an
Appellate Court. The findings of fact reached by an inferior court or
Tribunal as a result of the appreciation of evidence are not to be
reopened or questioned in writ proceedings. An error of law which is
apparent on the face of the record can be corrected by a writ, but
not an error of facts however grave it may appear to be. In regard to
a finding of fact recorded by a Tribunal, a writ can be issued if it is
shown that in recording the said finding, the Tribunal had
erroneously refused to admit admissible and material evidence, or
had erroneously admitted inadmissible evidence which has
influenced the impugned finding. Again if a finding of fact is based
on no evidence, that would be regarded as an error of law which can
be corrected by a writ of certiorari. A finding of fact recorded by the
Tribunal cannot be challenged on the ground that the relevant and
material evidence adduced before the Tribunal is insufficient or
inadequate to sustain a finding. The adequacy or sufficiency of
evidence led on a point and the inference of fact to be drawn from
the said finding are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal
as held by the Apex Court in SYED YAKOOB V. K.S. 
RADHAKRISHNAN 28. Thus the principle laid down in the above Judgment
relates to the order passed by Tribunals and inquiry authorities and
the same principle can be applied to the present facts of the case
and in Hals bury's Laws of England, Reissue, Volume 1(1), pages
144 and 145, Para 78, stated as follows: 29. In CHAIRMAN-CUM-MANAGING DIRECTOR, COAL 
INDIA LIMITED AND ANOTHER VS. MUKUL KUMAR 
CHOUDHURI AND OTHERS , the Apex Court further held as 
follows in Para 21: 30. In view of Law declared by the Apex Court, if the courts
find that the administrative action is irrational, it is always subject
to judicial review. If there is illegality or irrationality, in view of the
principles referred above, the power of the court to interfere with the
administrative decisions is limited. 31. Learned counsel for the petitioner, during arguments, did
not point out any irrationality or illegality, or any violation of any
statutory rules or provisions, warranting interference of this Court.
Therefore, in the absence of any irrationality or illegality or violation
of principles of natural justice or statutory Rule this court while
exercising the power of judicial review cannot interfere with the
administrative order under challenge in this writ petition. 32. Rule 9 deals with fraudulent claims and procedure to be
followed and the learned counsel for the petitioner did not point out
non compliance of any of the provisions of the Act. In the absence
of any violation of statutory rules and provisions, the fact finding
arrived by the respondents that the petitioner does not belong to
scheduled tribe cannot be found fault. Hence, it is difficult for me to
interfere with the fact finding recorded by the respondents in
cancellation of caste or social status certificate of the petitioner. 33. Learned counsel for the petitioner, at last, made an
attempt to convince this court that she cannot be deprived of her
employment at the fag end of her service placing reliance on a
Judgment of the Apex Court in LAVETI GIRI AND ANOTHER1 at 
paragraph 8 of the Judgment the Apex Court issued the following
directions. 34. In STATE OF MAHARASHTRA V. MILIND AND 
OTHERS at paragraph 37 the Apex Court held as follows: 35. In both the above Judgments, the candidates prosecuted
their studies both in engineering and medical respectively on the
basis of their false social status certificate, but the courts
consistently held that the candidates, who joined in engineering and
medical, are not entitled to claim any benefits as scheduled tribe
and their degrees cannot be cancelled. Such principle has no
application to the present facts since the petitioner secured
employment as a teacher on the basis of false claim. However, the
claim of the petitioner in the writ petition is only to set aside the
Government Oder. 36. It is the case of the petitioner at one stage that she was
the daughter of Guntreddy Gumpa Swamy and at another stage 
Janni Gumpa Swamy and the petitioner stated before the 
Committee and Collector that the petitioner was taken into adoption
during her childhood. In such case though she was transplanted by
adoption, by virtue of adoption, she is not entitled to claim benefits
as scheduled tribe. 37. When a member is transplanted into SC, ST or OBC's, he/ 
she must also, of necessity, have had undergone the same 
handicaps, and must have been subjected to the same disabilities,
disadvantages, indignities or sufferings so as to entitle him/ her to
avail the facility of reservation. Therefore, a candidate for a post
who had advantageous start in life, being born in Forward Caste
and had march of advantageous life but is transplanted in backward
caste by adoption or marriage or conversion, does not become
eligible to the benefit of reservation either under Art.15(4) or 16(4),
as the case may be. Acquisition of status of Scheduled Caste etc.,
by voluntary mobility into these categories would play fraud on the
Constitution, and would frustrate the benign constitutional policy
under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) as held in VALASAMMA PAUL v. 
COCHIN UNIVERSITY so also in STATE OF TRIPURA v. NAMITA 
MAJUMDAR , SANDHYA THAKUR v. VIMBA DEVI KUSHWAH . 38. The principle laid down in the above Judgment is straight
away applicable to the present facts of the case. Even the alleged
adoption of Janni Ganga is accepted and by virtue of adoption, the
petitioner adopted by Janni Gumpa swamy, she is not entitled to
claim benefits of reservation either under Articles 15(4) or 16(4) of
the Constitution. 39. A similar question came up before this Court reported in DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER, CANARA BANK, CIRCLE OFFICE, 
HYDERABAD AND ANOTHER v. A. RAMA RAO wherein this 
court held that when a bank employment was secured by filing false
certificates that he belongs to scheduled tribe, such person is not
entitled to claim any relief in the writ petition. 40. In DUKKU LABUDU BARIKI V. SOBHA HYMAVATHI 
DEVI AND OTHERS question came up before this Court was that 
whether the respondent is entitled to claim reservation under Articles 15(4) , 16(4) and 330 of Constitution, when she married her
mother's brother who belongs to Bhagata caste, and this Court held
that respondent can claim a right of reservation as a Scheduled
Tribe woman on the basis of her marriage with Appala Raju only
when she is able to establish that she has suffered all the
handicaps, disadvantages and restrictions of a Scheduled Tribe
woman and had been recognized as a Scheduled Tribe woman by 
the society. So it has to be seen if the evidence on record establishes
that first respondent suffered the handicaps, disadvantages of a
Scheduled Tribe and was recognized as a member of Scheduled 
Tribe by the society in which she lived, she is entitled to claim
benefits of Tribes. 41. Similarly in K.C. VASANTH KUMAR AND ANOTHER, V. 
STATE OF KARNATAKA the Apex Court issued certain guidelines 
for continuation of reservation to scheduled tribes. But guidelines laid down in the above Judgment have no application to the present
issue in controversy. 42. In YOGESH RAMCHANDRA NAIKWADI V. STATE OF 
MAHARASHTRA AND OTHERS the question of admission based 
on reservation by securing invalid caste/ tribe certificate and Degree
obtained on the basis of such invalid certificate was came up for
consideration and the Apex Court by following the principle in
MILIND case referred supra held that,
 "the appellant's admission or degree is to be annulled,
it is to nobody's benefit as his seat cannot be offered to
someone else. There is also no allegation that the appellant
forged or faked the caste certificate. His admission to
engineering course was nearly thirteen years back and he
secured the degree more than four years back. Therefore, we
are of the view that the appellant herein should be permitted
to retain the benefit of the degree but subject to terms. The
first is that he shall not claim or seek any further benefit by
claiming to belong to a Scheduled Tribe. The second is that
if the State has spent or incurred any expenditure on the
appellant's professional degree education by extending the
benefit of exemption from payment of fee or award of
scholarship or by extending the benefit of concession in fee
(that is less than what is charged to general category
students) by treating him as a Scheduled Tribe candidate,
the appellant cannot retain such financial benefits. The
third respondent may, on behalf of the State Government,
take appropriate steps to enquire and assess the amount, if
any spent on the appellant either towards fee, scholarship or
by way of concession in fee and make a demand on the 
appellant for payment thereof. If the appellant fails to pay
the amount so found due within six months of the demand 
by the third respondent, the third respondent may take steps
for recalling the degree granted to the appellant. If no
amount is found to be due or if the amount determined and
demanded is paid by the appellant, he may be permitted to
retain the degree obtained by him." 43. In the above decision the Apex Court, further widened the
scope of recovery of amount spent on the person who obtained a
degree by false claim that he belongs to scheduled tribe. 44. In UNION OF INDIA V. DATTATRAY S/O.NAMDEO 
MENDHEKAR AND OTHERS the question of appointment and its 
cancellation on the ground of production of fake caste or tribe
certificate came up for consideration and the Apex Court held that
when a person secures employment by making a false claim 
regarding caste/tribe, he deprives a legitimate candidate belonging
to scheduled caste/tribe, of employment. In such a situation, the
proper course is to cancel the employment obtained on the basis of
the false certificate so that the post may be filled up by a candidate
who is entitled to the benefit of reservation. 45. Therefore, the principle laid down in MILIND case cannot
be applied to wrongful appointment since such appointment is
based on invalid certificate or false certificate, would deprive
genuine tribal from enjoying the benefit of the reservation provided
in the Constitution. 46. Similarly in SHALINI V. NEW ENGLISH HIGH SCHOOL 
ASSOCIATION AND OTHERS the Apex Court considered the 
justifiability of termination from services of the petitioner on the
ground that she secured employment by producing false caste 
certificate and the facts in the above Judgment are that Scrutiny
Committee after a passage of several decades, found her
disentitled to claim the benefits ensuring to Halbas, but she was in
service on 06.11.1981 on the strength of her claim of consanguinity
to 'Halba Scheduled Tribe' duly predicted on a Certificate dated
8.7.1974 issued by the Competent Authority. Avowedly she was
appointed in a vacancy earmarked against the Scheduled Tribe
category. She was confirmed as Assistant Teacher with effect from
1.1.1984. Respondents 1 and 2, by order dated 17.9.1989,
appointed the Appellant as Assistant Head Mistress. Thereafter on
28.4.1994 she was promoted as Head Mistress by an order of even 
date, subject to production of Caste Validity Certificate. It is not
clear when the certificate produced by the Appellant was referred to
the Caste Scrutiny Committee, Nagpur for verification, but the said
Committee by Order dated 20.8.2003 held it to be invalid. The
learned Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay,
Nagpur Bench granted protection in service on the basis of
Government Resolution dated 15.6.1995 by his order dated 
2.9.2003 in Writ Petition No.3500 of 2003. The litigation was
protracted for sufficiently long time and she filed another writ
petition in which the learned Single Judge set aside the
reinstatement order passed by the School Tribunal, Nagpur which
came to be affirmed by the Division Bench. The impugned order is
challenged in the Apex Court since she secured employment based 
on the false certificate and such direction cannot be extended to the
appointment, wherein the Apex Court held as follows: