% 09.07.2025
 CRL.M.A. 19381/2025 (exemption) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition has been filed by the petitioners
 seeking quashing of FIR No. 92/2013 dated 23.02.2013,
 registered at Police Station Pandav Nagar, for offences under Sections 323 / 354 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC ').
 Chargesheet has been filed in the present case. 4. The brief facts are that the petitioners used to put bricks in
 the drain in front of their house due to which the flow of drain
 water stopped and fill the lane with water. 5. It is alleged that on 23.02.2013 at about 1:30 p.m., when
 drain water started to accumulate in the lane, Respondent No. 2
 asked Petitioner No. 2 to remove the bricks, whereafter, she
 allegedly started abusing Respondent No. 2. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50 6. It is alleged that when Respondent No. 2 started to remove
 the bricks from the drain, Petitioner No. 1 grabbed the hand of
 Respondent No. 2 and dragged her into the drain due to which
 she fell into the drain. 7. It is further alleged that thereafter both the petitioners
 started to beat and abuse Respondent No. 2. Pursuant to the
 compliant filed by Respondent No. 2 the present FIR was
 registered. 8. The present petition is filed on the ground that the parties
 have settled their disputes by way of Memorandum of Settlement
 dated 21.12.2022, out of their free will without any force, undue
 pressure, influence, misrepresentation or mistake. 9. The learned counsel for the petitioners submit that the
 parties have amicably settled the present dispute and the
 petitioners have also tendered an unconditional apology to
 Respondent No. 2. 10. The parties are present in person and have been duly
 identified by the Investigating Officer. 11. On being asked, Respondent No. 2 states that all the
 misunderstandings have been resolved and she has no objection
 if the proceedings arising out of the present FIR are quashed. 12. Offences under Sections 323 of the IPC are compoundable
 whereas offences under Sections 354 of the IPC are non-
 compoundable. 13. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 528 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha
 Sanhita, 2023 ('BNSS') (erstwhile Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973) can compound offences which are
 non-compoundable on the ground that there is a compromise
 between the accused and the complainant. The Hon'ble Apex CRL.M.C. 4453/2025 Page 2 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50
 Court has laid down parameters and guidelines for High Court
 while accepting settlement and quashing the proceedings. In the
 case of Narinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr. : While exercising the power the High Court is to form an
 opinion on either of the aforesaid two objectives.
 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in those
 prosecutions which involve heinous and serious
 offences of mental depravity or offences like murder,
 rape, dacoity, etc. Such offences are not private in
 nature and have a serious impact on society. Similarly,
 for the offences alleged to have been committed under
 special statute like the Prevention of Corruption Act or
 the offences committed by public servants while working
 in that capacity are not to be quashed merely on the
 basis of compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases having
 overwhelmingly and predominantly civil character,
 particularly those arising out of commercial transactions
 or arising out of matrimonial relationship or family CRL.M.C. 4453/2025 Page 3 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50
 disputes should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among themselves.
 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High Court is to
 examine as to whether the possibility of conviction is
 remote and bleak and continuation of criminal cases
 would put the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him by not
 quashing the criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 14. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50
 gravity of the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as murder,
 rape and dacoity cannot appropriately be quashed
 though the victim or the family of the victim have settled
 the dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact upon society.
 The decision to continue with the trial in such cases is
 founded on the overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences. 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences, there may be
 criminal cases which have an overwhelming or
 predominant element of a civil dispute. They stand on a
 distinct footing insofar as the exercise of the inherent
 power to quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which arise from
 commercial, financial, mercantile, partnership or similar
 transactions with an essentially civil flavour may in
 appropriate situations fall for quashing where parties
 have settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash the
 criminal proceeding if in view of the compromise between
 the disputants, the possibility of a conviction is remote and
 the continuation of a criminal proceeding would cause
 oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle set out in
 propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above. Economic offences
 involving the financial and economic well-being of the
 State have implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The High Court
 would be justified in declining to quash where the offender
 is involved in an activity akin to a financial or economic
 fraud or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic system will
 weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied) 15. In the present case, Respondent No.2 has stated that she
 has no remaining grievance against the petitioners and that she is
 satisfied with the unconditional apology tendered by the
 petitioners. In the peculiar circumstances of this case, it is
 unlikely that the present FIR will result in a conviction when
 Respondent No.2 does not wish to pursue the case. In such
 circumstances, continuance of the proceedings would only cause
 harassment and heart burn amongst the parties. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50 16. Keeping in view the nature of dispute and the fact that the
 parties have amicably settled the dispute, this Court feels that no
 useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute alive and
 continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse of the
 process of Court. I am of the considered opinion that it is a fit
 case to exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 528 of
 the BNSS. 17. However, keeping in mind the fact that the present FIR
 was registered in the year 2013 and that the State machinery has
 been put to motion, ends of justice would be served if the
 petitioners are put to cost. 18. In view of the above, FIR No.92/2013 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to payment of total cost of ₹10,000/- by the petitioners, to be
 deposited with the Delhi Police Welfare Society, within a period
 of eight weeks from today. 19. Let the proof of deposit of cost be submitted with the
 concerned SHO/IO. 20. The present petition is allowed in aforesaid terms. Pending
 application(s), if any, also stand disposed of. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 9, 2025
 "SK" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/08/2025 at 21:45:50