YouTube has removed ( Archived Page ) The Wire’s ground-reporting video on how the Know Your Customer (KYC) process of authentication of a person as per Aadhaar guidelines is depriving people of their fundamental rights, such as education, food, and dignity, resulting in them being caught in vicious bureaucratic circles. The reasons for the removal are still unknown. However, their reporting is still available to view on Facebook .

Siddarth Varadaraj, the editor of The Wire, said that the video was removed without prior intimation or notice. “It is unacceptable. We are fighting against it,” he said in a telephonic interview with MediaNama.

At the time, we took the screenshot , it read that the “video has been removed for violating YouTube’s policy on harassment and bullying.” However, the URL now shows that the video was removed for “violating the terms of service.” The exact reason for the uninformed removal is not known yet.

YouTube can delete the video from its platform if it has violated the Terms of Service. They are the rules and guidelines for the users of the platform. YouTube claims that the video has been removed because it violates the terms of service. YouTube proactively monitors the violation of its community guidelines , which include child safety, harmful or dangerous content, violent or graphic material, harassment, and spam.

To prevent the removal of YouTube videos, users must value others’ privacy and avoid copyrighted content and misleading people, including impersonation and encouragement of illegal activities. Defaming, bullying, harassment, being obscene, or stalking others may also lead to content removal as per the guidelines .

Yes. YouTube had to comply with India’s Information Technology (IT) (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules , 2021. Section 69(A) of the IT Act gives power to the government to block content that threatens “national security, sovereignty, or public order.” This can be sent by either the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) or any other authority.

Earlier in 2023, the Union government also mandated that deepfake and misinformation content be removed within 36 hours of reporting. Failing to do so will result in the loss of safe harbour protections under Section 79 of the IT Act. Section 79 protects digital platforms from liability for the content posted by their users. However, the online platform is still liable if it fails to remove unlawful content after the government’s notice/request.

To strengthen the content moderation on the internet, the government asked the intermediaries to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person, a resident grievance officer, and a physical office in India earlier in 2021.

A 2023 report highlights how 4,000 YouTube URLs were ordered to be removed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C)– under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sent 426 content takedown notices to the platform since its inception in 2024.

The content takedown notices from both online platforms and the government have been increasing. On the one hand, copyright and privacy are also becoming barriers to freedom of speech ; on the other hand, the government has strengthened its censorship controls through the Sahyog portal.

However, this is a developing story. It is not yet clear what the exact reasons are for the removal of The Wire’s reporting. MediaNama is following up with The Wire Team. We will update the copy once we learn the exact reasons for the removal of their video.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event