Shri Yogesh, the Applicant herein, who was terminated by the order dated 30.4.2009 (Page 16) approached this Tribunal under Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 seeking the following directions to :- quash and set aside the impugned order (Annexure-A1) commanding the respondents to reinstate the applicant in service with full back wages and continuity of service alongwith all consequential benefits; direct the respondents to pay the arrears of pay, as admissible under the law; and

pass any other and further order which this Honble Tribunal may deem fit and proper be also passed in favour of the applicant and against the respondents. 2.	It is the case of the Applicant that while working as Chowkidar on casual basis at Leprosy Home Tahirpur an order dated 29.11.2005 (Pages 17-18) was passed regularizing his services and posted at Ghumanhera Dispensary. It is stated that 127 Group-D employees services were terminated by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD for short), on the grounds of appointment/regularization in fraudulent manner and those terminated employees challenged the order of termination, by filing respective Writ Petitions in Honble High Court of Delhi (Writ Petition No.8379-99/2006, 8268-85/2006 and 9576/2006) upholding the decision of the Single Judge Bench of the Honble High Court of Delhi directed the MCD that the persons whose services had been terminated without holding any inquiry and without calling for show cause notice being illegal ab initio, such orders were remanded to the MCD. In case of the Applicant it is stated that a show cause notice was issued to him, against which, he has submitted his reply and thereafter his services were terminated by the Respondents vide order dated 30.04.2009. The Applicant has raised a question in the instant case that whether the Respondents had taken into consideration the relevant documents including the work performance of the Applicant while passing an order of regularization? Therefore, the decision taken by the Respondents for terminating the Applicants services is highly belated since the Applicant had already completed his two years probation and thereafter he has been terminated without holding a proper inquiry. 3.	Shri R. K. Shukla, the learned Counsel for the Applicant, very extensively argued the case and contended that (a) without holding regular enquiry and departmental disciplinary proceedings, the Applicant could not have been terminated by the Respondents, (b) Respondents failed to appreciate the grounds raised by the Applicant in his reply to the show cause notice, (c) This being a termination stigmatic the normal disciplinary proceedings should have been followed to remove the Applicant and (d) it is stated that the Applicant was a permanent employee of MCD and not a temporary employee and, therefore, the Rules of MCD for permanent employee should have been applied before order of termination was issued. 4.	It was further stated by Shri Shukla that if it was a case of illegal regularization of services of the Applicant, the MCD should have adopted CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965 treating the same as misconduct and issued detailed charge sheet and followed the normal disciplinary proceedings before passing any final order. In the present case, Shri Shukla contended that detailed departmental enquiry was not held but only after getting the reply of the Applicant to the show cause notice the termination order has been passed. 5. In support of his contentions, learned Counsel for the Applicant has relied on the judgment of Honble Supreme Court in the case of Telecom District Manager and Others versus Keshab Deb (2008) 8 SCC 402 decided on 6.5.2008. The main contention in this regard was that the appellant in the said case has committed a misconduct for which he was terminated from service. It was the observations of Honble Supreme Court that there should have been an opportunity accorded to the Appellant and regular departmental proceedings should have been initiated against him and the termination order being stigmatic in nature, the termination itself was considered as illegal. While allowing the appeal of the Appellant it was observed that the Courts should take into consideration the factors relevant that (a) whether the recruitment of the Respondent was ex facie illegal as prior thereto neither any advertisement was issued nor the employment exchange was notified in regard to the vacancy, (b) It did not appear that the respondent had even got himself registered with the local employment exchange. (c) He being a daily-rated casual employee did not have any right to continue in service. The Keshav Debs case (supra) is based on different facts and circumstances from the present OA. The present OA is of regularization of the Casual Chowkidar whose initial appointment has been in question on the grounds of fraud and, therefore, the Keshab Debs case (supra) is clearly distinguishable and the law laid in that judgment of Honble Supreme Court would not be applicable in the present OA. 6.	The Respondent No.2, after considering the explanation of the Applicant found that there was nothing available for his initial engagement and he got himself posted to Ghumanhera Dispensary on the basis of a forged regularization and transfer order. The forged office order dated 29.11.2005 and the forged letter dated 7.12.2005 read as follows :- This service of Shri Yogesh S/o Sh. Mahender Singh Daily wages Chowkidar of Leprosy Home Tahir M.C.D. is hereby regularized w.e.f. 1.4.2004 in the pay scale of Rs.2550-55-2660-6-3200 plus usual allowances. Consequent upon regularization he is posted at Ghumenhara Dispensary. He will draw his salary and joint against a vacant post of Chowkidar. The appointment is subject to the following terms and conditions:- 7.	The cases of fraudulent appointment in MCD were considered by the learned Single Judge of the Honble High Court of Delhi in WP(C) No.8379-99/2006, 8268-85/2006 and 9576/2006 and decided that by depriving the petitioner of an opportunity to explain their version and also to produce the relevant records in their possession and to establish their authenticity, the termination from service was found to be arbitrary and unjustified and such termination orders were set aside. The operative part of the judgment is extracted below :- 8.	The Respondent MCD appealed against the above cited judgment which was considered by Honble High Court of Delhi in LPA No. 1176/2007 and LPA No.1184/2007. While upholding the judgment of learned Single Judge, the following judgment was passed on 9.10.2007 in both LPAs :- 9.	The Respondent MCD, in the present case, issued a show cause notice dated 12.12.2008 (Page-94) and on receipt of the explanation/reply (Pages 96-98), examined the same. It was found by the MCD that the Applicant did not enclose any document relating to his initial engagement as daily wager in MCD and concluded that the Applicant was never engaged on daily wage basis by MCD and managed work in Ghumanhera Dispensary on the basis of forged regularization/transfer order. The fraudulent engagement of the Applicant was terminated vide MCD Office Order dated 30.04.2009 (Page-16). The said order reads as follows :- 				OFFICE ORDER

Sh. Yogesh S/o Sh. Mahender Singh, Chowkidar, was posted in Ghumanhera Dispensary against the vacant post of Chowkidar vide regularization office order No-5612/AO(H)/RCS/2005 dt. 29.11.2005 issued supposedly under the signature of the then Administrative Officer (H) wherein he has been shown working as daily wager in Leprosy Home Tahirpur, MCD. Sh. Yogesh joined his duty in Ghumanhera Dispensary on the basis of above said regularization/posting order. The Audit Department vide letter dated 11.03.08 reported to Deputy Commissioner, Nazaf Garh Zone that during enquiry from the M.O.I/C Leprosy Home Shahdra it revealed that Sh. Yogesh S/o Sh. Mahender Singh had never worked in Leprosy Home, Shahdara on daily wages. The file of Sh. Yogesh was sent to MO I/C Leprosy Home Shahdara by the office of AO(H) for verification of his daily wages services and the MO I/C Leprosy Home, Shahdara has reported that as per record Sh. Yogesh S/o Sh. Mahender Singh, Daily wager, Chowkidar has not worked in Leprosy Home Tahirpur. A show cause notice vide No-AO (H)/KAJ/Gf-779/08/1501 dt. 12.12.08 was issued to Sh. Yogesh with direction to submit the reply of the show cause notice along with the documents of initial engagement and proof of salary drawn or any other relevant document within a period of 07 days. In response to above show cause notice he has submitted his reply but has not enclosed any documents related to his initial engagement as daily wager in MCD. His documents available with the department were scrutinized by this office and it was found that there is nothing available for his initial engagement. This shows that he was never engaged on Daily Wage basis by the MCD; however, he managed to work in Ghumanhera Dispensary on the basis of forged regularization/transfer order as mentioned above. In view of above, the fraudulent engagement of Sh. Yogesh S/o Sh. Mahender Singh, Chowkidar is hereby terminated with immediate effect. This issues with the approval of Competent Authority. -sd- Administrative Officer (Health)-II 10.	The facts of this case reveal that (i) the Applicant was stated to have been working as daily wage Chowkidar at Leprosy Home Tahirpur (ii) the Applicant was indicated to have been regularized and posted in the vacant post of Chowkidar at Ghumanhera Dispensary; (iii) the Audit Department, during the enquiry, detected vide their letter dated 11.3.2008 that the Applicant never worked in the Leprosy Home Tahirpur on daily wage; (iv) further verification confirmed the detection of the Audit Department of MCD; (v) the Applicant was issued a show cause notice dated 12.12.2008; (vi) he submitted his reply but did not enclose any document relating to his initial engagement as daily wager in MCD; (vii) it was found that the Applicant was engaged to work in Ghumanhera Dispensary on the basis of forged regularization/transfer order; and (viii) he was ultimately terminated with the approval of the Competent Authority. 11.	We notice that this is the part of a scam and the coordinated Bench of this Tribunal where one of us (Honble Mrs. Meera Chhibber, Judicial Member) authored the order dated 19.8.2009 in TA No.97/2009 between Satish Chand Gupta versus Municipal Corporation of Delhi and Another , has very comprehensively dealt with the issues coming up before us in this OA. While relying on the judgments of Honble Supreme Court in the case of State of Bihar versus Upendra Narayan Singh and Others [2009-5-SCC-65]; ( b) Directorate of Film Festivals versus Gaurav Ashwin Jain [2007-4-SCC-737 ]; and ( c) State of Manipur and Others versus Y. Token Singh and Others [2007-3-Scale-319], this Tribunal decided Satish Chand Guptas case (supra) as follows :- 12.	We considered the issues raised by the Applicant in the present OA at the admission stage and heard the learned Counsel for the Applicant. We do not consider it necessary to issue notice to the Respondent, as we come to the considered conclusion that the present OA is fully covered by this Tribunals judgment in TA No.97/2009. In the result, the Original Application is dismissed in limine. No costs.