VIBHU BAKHRU, J IA No.5576/2016 1. The Plaintiff has filed the present application, inter alia, praying as

under:- 2. The Plaintiff is a private company and is, inter alia, engaged in the

business of Data Recovery. The Plaintiff states that it has been providing a

wide range of Data Recovery, Data Migration and Data Erasure Solutions

to its clients in India and abroad. 3. Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 are the erstwhile employees of the Plaintiff.

Defendant Nos. 5 to 7 are the respective spouses of Defendant Nos. 1 to 3.

Defendant no. 4 (hereafter 'Techchef') is a company promoted by

Defendant nos. 5 to 7 and they are also the directors of the said company. 4. The Plaintiff alleges that although Defendant nos. 5 to 7 are shown

as the promoters/directors of Techchef, in fact, its business is carried on

by Defendant nos. 1 to 3, who are in de facto control and management of

Techchef. It is further alleged that Techchef is also carrying on the same

activities/business as is being carried on by the Plaintiff - that is, the

business of providing services relating to data recovery, data migration and

data erasure - and is directly competing with the Plaintiff. 5. It is the Plaintiff's case that Defendant nos. 1 to 3 - by virtue of their CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 2 of 20 employment with the Plaintiff - had access to Plaintiff's confidential data,

information, trade secrets and knowhow and they are now using the same

for securing the business from the Plaintiff's clients. According to the

Plaintiff, the same is breach of the "Confidentiality and Invention

Assignment Agreement" and "Employee Confidentiality Agreement" 6. The Plaintiff claims that it became aware of an email forwarded by

Defendant no.1 to Defendant no. 3 regarding a work order sent by M/s

Rollatainers Limited, which the Plaintiff claims is an ancillary of M/s

Amtek Group, which in turn is stated to be a customer of the Plaintiff. It is

further claimed that the Defendants are continuing to approach the

Plaintiff's customers and soliciting work from them. It is contended that the

aforesaid action of the Defendants approaching the Plaintiff's customers is

in violation of the aforesaid Agreements entered into by the Defendants

with the Plaintiff. 7. Mr Mathur, the learned counsel for the Plaintiff submitted that the

Defendants have stolen the Plaintiff's client list, which includes the phone

numbers and contact details of the concerned persons, and are using the

same for their business. He further stated that the Defendants had also not

returned the laptop provided to them during their employment. It was CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 3 of 20 earnestly contended that the client list prepared by the Plaintiff is its

proprietary information and, therefore, the Defendants must be restrained

from using the said list and/or approaching the Plaintiff's customers. 8. Mr Mathur further submitted that the Defendants were only

restrained from carrying on the competing business and that too for a

limited period and therefore, the subject clause was reasonable and in

terms of the Agreements, the Plaintiff was entitled to injunctive relief. He

relied upon the decisions of this Court in Diljeet Titus, Advocate v. Alfred

A. Adebare and Others : 2006 ( 32) PTC 609 (Delhi) and Vogueserv

International Pvt. Ltd. v. Rajesh Gosain & Ors. : 203 (2013) DLT 613, in

support of its contention that the Defendants are liable to be restrained

from approaching the Plaintiff's customers. 9. Mr Santhalia, the learned counsel for the Defendants countered the

arguments advanced on behalf of the Plaintiff. He submitted that the

Defendants did not have any confidential information pertaining to the

Plaintiff. He submitted that names of almost all large customers of the

Plaintiff are advertised on its website and therefore, are in public domain.

He further submitted that business market relating to data recovery and

data migration is not very large and the names of almost all customers

requiring such services are known in the market and can be found on the CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 4 of 20 internet by using search engines such as google.com. 10. Insofar as the Plaintiff's allegation that the Defendants have not

returned the laptop given to them during the course of their employment

with the Plaintiff is concerned, he submitted that first of all, the machine

was a tablet and not a laptop; and secondly, the Defendants had no

objection in returning the same but had not done so as their dues had not

been cleared. He submitted that there was no confidential or technical data

available on the said tablet which, in fact, was no longer in a working

condition. He further submitted that the software and other tools used by

the Plaintiff for rendering services are not the proprietary software of the

Plaintiff but are licensed software. He also denied that the Defendants had

secreted or stolen any data relating to the remuneration package of other

employees. 11. Mr Santhalia further submitted that the Defendants could not be

restrained from carrying on their business or approaching the customers as

any such restrictive covenant in the Agreements would be void by virtue of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. In support of its contention,

he relied on the following decisions: Reasoning and conclusion 12. Before proceeding further, it would be necessary to refer to the

relevant clauses of the Agreements, which are stated to have been breached

by the Defendants. The Plaintiff claims to have entered into similarly

worded "Employee Confidentiality Agreement" and "Confidentiality and

Invention Assignment Agreement" with each of the Defendants. However,

in terms of the Confidentiality and Invention Assignment Agreement,

Defendant no.1 is restrained from carrying on the prohibited activity for a

period of one year while Defendant nos.2 and 3 are proscribed from

carrying on the prohibited activity for a period of two years. 13. The relevant clauses of the said agreements are set out as under:- CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 6 of 20 Confidential Information is to be broadly defined, and
 includes all information that has or could have commercial CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 7 of 20 value or other utility in the business in which the Company is
 engaged or contemplates engaging, and all information of
 which the unauthorized disclosure could be detrimental to the
 interests of the Company, whether or not such information is
 identified as Confidential Information by the Company. (b) Existence of Confidential Information The Company
 owns and has developed and compiled, and will develop and
 compile, certain trade secrets, proprietary techniques and
 other Confidential information which have great value to its
 business. This Confidential Information includes not only
 information disclosed by the Company to me, but also
 information developed or learned by me during the course of
 my employment with the Company. (c) Protection of Confidential Information I will not,
 directly or indirectly, use, make available, sell, disclose or
 otherwise communicate to any third party, other than in my
 assigned duties and for the benefit of the Company, any of the
 Company's Confidential Information, either during or after my
 employment with the Company. In the event I desire to
 publish the results of my work for the Company through
 literature or speeches, I will submit such literature or speeches
 to the Managing Director of the Company at least 10 days
 before dissemination of such information for a determination
 of whether such disclosure may alter trade secret status, may
 be highly prejudicial to the interests of the Company, or may
 constitute an invasion of its privacy. I agree not to publish,
 disclose or otherwise disseminate such information without
 prior written approval of the President of the Company. I
 acknowledge that I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure
 of Confidential Information of the Company may be highly
 prejudicial to its interests, an invasion of privacy, and an
 improper disclosure of trade secrets. (d) Delivery of Confidential Information Upon request
 or when my employment with the Company terminates, I will
 immediately deliver to the Company all copies of any and all
 materials and writings received from, created for, or
 belonging to the Company including, but not limited to, those
 which relate to or contain Confidential Information. CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 8 of 20 (e) Location and Reproduction I shall maintain at my
 work station and/or any other place under my control only
 such Confidential Information as I have a current "need to
 know." I shall return to the appropriate person or location or
 otherwise properly dispose of Confidential Information once
 that need to know no longer exists. I shall not make copies of
 or otherwise reproduce Confidential Information unless there
 is a legitimate business need of the Company for
 reproduction. (f) Prior Actions and Knowledge I represent and
 warrant that from the time of my first contact with the
 Company I held in strict confidence all Confidential
 Information and have not disclosed any Confidential
 Information, directly or indirectly, to anyone outside the
 Company, or used, copied, published, or summarized any
 Confidential information, except to the extent otherwise
 permitted in this Agreement. (g) Third-Party Information I acknowledge that the
 Company has received and in the future will receive from
 third parties their confidential information subject to a duty on
 the Company's part to maintain the confidentiality of such
 information and to use it only for certain limited purposes. I
 agree that, during the Period of Employment and thereafter, I
 will hold all such confidential information in the strictest
 confidence and not to disclose or use it, except as necessary to
 perform my obligations hereunder and as is consistent with
 the Company's agreement with such third parties. (h) Third Parties I represent that my employment with
 the Company does not and will not breach any agreements
 with or duties to a former employer or any other third party. I
 will not disclose to the Company or use on its behalf any
 confidential information belonging to others and I will not
 bring onto the premises of the Company any confidential
 information belonging to any such party unless consented to
 in writing by such party. (a) Acknowledgment I acknowledge that the pursuit of
 the activities forbidden by Section 4(b) below would
 necessarily involve the use, disclosure or misappropriation of
 Confidential Information. (b) Prohibited Activity To prevent the above-described
 disclosure, misappropriation and breach, I agree that during
 my employment and for a period of one (I) year after
 termination of the Period of Employment, without the
 Company's express written consent, I shall not, directly or
 indirectly, (i) employ, solicit for employment, or recommend
 for employment any person employed by the Company (or
 any Affiliate); and (ii) engage in any present or contemplated
 business activity that is or may be competitive with the
 Company (or any Affiliate) in any state where the Company
 conducts its business, unless I can prove that any action taken
 in contravention of this subsection (ii) was done without the
 use in any way of Confidential Information. (a) Upon the termination of my relationship with the
 Company or promptly upon the Company's request, I shall
 surrender to the Company all equipment, tangible Proprietary
 Information, documents, books, notebooks, records, reports,
 notes, memoranda, drawings, sketches, models, maps,
 contracts, lists, computer disks (and other computer-generated
 files and data), any other data and records of any kind, and
 copies thereof (collectively, "Company Records"), created on
 any medium and furnished to, obtained by, or prepared by
 myself in the course of or incident to my employment, that are
 in my possession or under my control. CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 10 of 20 (b) My representations, warranties, and obligations
 contained in this Agreement shall survive the termination of
 the Period of Employment. (c) Following any termination of the Period of
 Employment, I will fully cooperate with the Company in all
 matters relating to my continuing obligations under this
 Agreement. (d) In the event that I leave the employment of the
 Company I hereby grant consent to notification by the
 Company to my new employer about my rights and
 obligations under this Agreement. (e) Upon termination of the Period of Employment, I
 will execute a Certificate acknowledging compliance with this
 Agreement in the form reasonably provided by the Company. Clause 7 7. Injunctive Relief I acknowledge that my failure to
 carry out any obligation under this Agreement, or a breach by
 me of any provision herein, will constitute immediate and
 irreparable damage to the Company, which cannot be fully
 and adequately compensated in money damages and which
 will warrant preliminary and other injunctive relief, an order
 for specific performance, and other equitable relief. I further
 agree that no bond or other security shall be required in
 obtaining such equitable relief, and I hereby consent to the
 issuance of such injunction and to the ordering of specific
 performance. I also understand that other action may be taken
 and remedies enforced against me. Employee Confidentiality Agreement 1. Confidential Information

 I agree that during and after my term of employment with the
 company: the existence of which is also in dispute - would be an exercise in futility

and enforcement of which would be impossible. 16. The fact that the Defendants have approached some of the Plaintiff's CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 13 of 20 customers does not in the given facts establish that the Defendants are

using any proprietary information of the Plaintiff. The Defendants also

cannot be prevented from using the experience and knowledge which is

gained by them during the course of employment with the Plaintiff.

Although, the Plaintiff had alleged that the Defendants have removed the

laptop, it was clarified by the learned counsel for the Defendants that the

Defendants had not returned the tablet (and not laptop as claimed by the

Plaintiff) provided by the Plaintiff to them for the reason that the dues of

the Defendants had not been settled by the Plaintiff. It was further pointed

out that the Defendants have filed two suits titled Rakesh Kumar v. Stellar

Information Technology Pvt. Ltd: Suit No.219 of 2016 and Anish Kumar

v. Stellar Information Technology Pvt. Ltd: Suit No. 68 of 2016 in the

District Courts at Tis Hazari for claiming their dues and had already

indicated that they were willing to return the tablet in question provided the

dues of the Defendants were settled. 17. It is also not disputed by the learned counsel for the Plaintiff that the

Defendants are not technically qualified and/or were not involved in the

technical operations. In these circumstances, it would be difficult to accept

that the Defendants secreted any technical process and/or would have

removed or copied any information relating to any technical process. In CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 14 of 20 any event, the Plaintiff has not been able to establish or indicate its

proprietary right on any software or technical process which is being used

by the Defendants. On the contrary, it is not disputed that the software used

by the Plaintiff was licensed software and not the proprietary software of

the Plaintiff. 18. It is thus, seen that the Plaintiff's case is essentially not one of

infringement of copyright but one for enforcement of a non-compete

clause. The Plaintiff claims that the Defendants are obliged not to carry on

competing activity for the specified period after termination of their

employment (one year in case of Defendant no.1 and two years in case of

Defendant nos. 2 & 3). The aforesaid contention is premised on the basis

of clause 4 of the Confidentiality and Invention Assignment Agreement.

However, a closer examination of the aforesaid clause indicates that there

is an inbuilt exception to the restriction to not to carry on any competitive

activity; and that exception is where an employee can prove that he has

carried on the business activity without using of any confidential

information. 19. In the present case, it is not disputed that the names of the customers

seeking data recovery services are well-known and in public domain.

Therefore, the Defendants cannot be restrained from approaching the CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 15 of 20 customers only on the allegation that the Defendants are aware of the

names of the Plaintiff's customers. 20. The learned counsel for the Plaintiff had submitted that the

expression 'confidential information' is very wide and thus, it would not be

practically impossible for the Defendant to establish that they were not

using the confidential information in the context of their business.

Consequently, the Defendants could not be permitted to carry on any

competing business. In my view, this contention is also bereft of any merit

as by expanding the width of the expression 'confidential information' to

include information which is in public domain, the Plaintiff is not seeking

protection of proprietary or confidential information, but is essentially

seeking a restraint on trade. Plainly, if the expression of 'confidential

information' is read in the manner as suggested by the Plaintiff, clause

4(b)(ii) of the Confidentiality and Invention Assignment Agreement for the

Employee would in effect work as a covenant in restraint of trade and,

therefore, would be void by virtue of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act,

1872. 21. The decision in the case of Diljeet Titus (supra) is wholly

inapplicable in the facts of this case. In that case the issue was whether the

copyright in the database - which included a client list and was admittedly CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 16 of 20 copied by the defendants - vested with the defendants as they had worked

on it or whether the same belonged to the plaintiff. The court held that

"The mere fact that defendants would have done work for such clients

while being associated with the plaintiff would not give them the right to

reproduce the list and take it away" and therefore, restrained the

defendants from using the same. Even so, the court clarified that "it is

possible that a part of this information is retained in the memory of the

defendants and if that is utilized no grievance can be made in this behalf.

This would, however, be different from a copy made of the list.". The

decision in Vogueserv International Pvt. Ltd. (supra) also turned on the

issue of copyright. There is no dispute that the Defendants could be

restrained from using the copyright material, but clearly, they cannot be

restrained from using the material which is in public domain and from

carrying on competing business after their employment with the Plaintiff

has ceased. 22. The contention that the restriction to carry on competing business is

for a limited time and is therefore, reasonable and consequently,

enforceable cannot be accepted. Once it is held that in the guise of a

confidentiality clause, the Plaintiff is attempting to enforce a covenant in

restraint of trade, the same must be held to be void. As explained by Justice

A.P. Sen in his concurring judgement in Superintendence Company of CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 17 of 20 India (P) ltd. vs Krishan Murgai: (1981) 2 SCC 246, a covenant in

restraint of trade, whether partial or not is void by virtue of section 27 of

the Indian Contract Act, 1872; the question whether a restriction is

reasonable or not is relevant only if the case falls within the exception to section 27 . The relevant extract of the said judgement are reproduced

below: The section is general in terms, and declares all agreements in
 restraint void pro tanto, except in the case specified in the
 exception. 27. The question whether an agreement is void under section
 27 must be decided upon the wording of that section. There is
 nothing in the wording of section 27 to suggest that the
 principle stated therein does not apply when the restraint is for a
 limited period only or is confined to a particular area. Such
 matters of partial restriction have effect only when the fact fall
 within the exception to the section. 28. A contract, which has for its object a restraint of trade, is CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 18 of 20 prima facie, void. Section 27 of the Contract Act is general in
 terms and unless a particular contract can be distinctly brought
 within Exception 1 there is no escape from the prohibition. We
 have nothing to do with the policy of such a law. All we have to
 do is to take the words of the Contract Act and put upon the
 meaning which they appear plainly to bear. This view of the
 section was expressed by Sir Richard Couch C.J. in celebrated
 judgment in Madhub Chunder v. Rajcoomar Doss [1874] Beng
 L. R. 76 at pp. 85-86 laying down that whether the restraint was
 general or partial, unqualified or qualified, if it was in the nature
 of a restraint of trade, it was void." 23. In Wipro Limited v. Beckman Coulter International S.A. : 131

(2006) DLT 681, a Coordinate Bench of this Court, after referring to

several judgements, summarised the law on the issue as under: 24. Similar views are also expressed in the decisions referred to by Mr

Santhalia. 25. In view of the aforesaid, the application is dismissed and the interim

order passed on 08.06.2016 is vacated. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
AUGUST 29, 2016
RK CS(COMM) 482/2016 Page 20 of 20