1. The plaintiffs have filed the present suit seeking partition,

recovery of money and permanent injunction against the defendants.

The Plaint 2. The brief facts as mentioned in the plaint are as follows : Chhotey Lal Abhaya married plaintiff no.1, who brought up Sh. Jagdish

Prasad Abhaya. Out of the wedlock, three other children namely Dr.

Avinash Abhaya, Smt. Mithlesh and Smt. Vijay Laxmi were born to the

plaintiff. Late Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya is survived by his following

legal heirs : Late Dr. Chhotey Lal was a Central govt. employee and a duly

qualified medico holding BIMS degree conferred by Body of Ayurvedic

and Unani System of Medicine by Delhi Administration on 15.04.1967.

Late Dr. Chhotey Lal also settled his private medical practice in a

rented shop bearing no.723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh, Delhi during

the year 1968. Main part of his income came from his medical practice

in addition to his income from salary and rent from his self-acquired

and constructed three storey house in Firozabad, U.P. (iii) After some time, some disputes arose between Late Dr. Chhotey

Lal and his landlord named Sh. Net Ram who was landlord of his

rented shop. Sh. Net Ram sent a notice to late Dr. Chhotey Lal whereby

the tenancy of Dr. Chhotey Lal in respect of shop no.723 was

terminated. However, litigations started between them and on

20.07.1979, due to intervention by the area's Shopkeepers Welfare

Association, the dispute was amicably settled and the court cases

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 5 between them were compromised. In terms of the compromise, the

landlord Sh. Net Ram sold his shop no.723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh,

Delhi to Late Dr. Chhotey Lal on 22.08.1979 vide GPA, Agreement,

Affidavit and Receipt duly executed by Sh. Net Ram in favour of Late

Dr. Chhotey Lal. After having purchased the shop, Late Dr. Chhotey Lal

got constructed first floor on the said shop and got installed electricity

connection in his own name. He also wrote various letters to MCD for

mutation of the said shop in his name. For almost a period of 42 years,

i.e. from his induction as a tenant in the year 1968 till his death on

02.12.2010, Dr. Chhotey Lal was continuously and uninterruptedly

running his clinic from the said shop. (iv) Late Dr. Chhotey Lal purchased a plot admeasuring about 150 sq.

yds. bearing no.1667/11, Kamala Park, Main Dharampura Road,

Najafgarh, Delhi in the year 1970 and also got constructed a house on it

in the year 1972 and till his death, he continuously resided in the said

house with plaintiff no.1. In the year 1992, Late Dr. Chhotey Lal retired

from government service and was getting pension after August 1992.

Plaintiff was nominated by her husband in his Pension Pay Orders dated

06.08.1992. Late Dr. Chhotey Lal also had rental income from his self

acquired house i.e. House no.38, Katra Sunaran, Firozabad, U.P. (v) After his retirement, Late Dr. Chhotey Lal purchased another plot

admeasuring 100 sq yds. bearing no.RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura,

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 6 Najafgarh, Delhi upon which two rooms, kitchen and toilet were built

up at ground floor only at time of purchase. His elder son Sh. Jagdish

Prasad was sent to live in the said house with his family comprising of

defendants no.1 to 4. Late Dr. Chhotey Lal got issued a separate Ration

Card for them. Sh. Jagdish Prasad did not get the necessary changes in

his ration card, voter identity card and gas connection etc. but in the

invitation card of marriage of defendant no.4, the address was given as

RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, Delhi. Further, defendant

no.2 Gaurav Singh Abhaya had old account in SBI Bank, Najafgarh at

said address. (vi) As the House no.1667/11, Kamla Park, Main Dharampura Road,

Najafgarh, Delhi earlier acquired by Late Dr. Chhotey Lal had fallen

down, he planned to shift to RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura,

Najafgarh, Delhi and asked his elder son to vacate the house and to shift

in a rented accommodation in the neighbourhood house of one Sh.

Dharam Singh who was a retired employee of DESU. Late Sh. Jagdish

Prasad shifted to the rented premises with his family for which rent was

also paid by Dr. Chhotey Lal. Late Dr. Chhotey Lal got constructed

upto 3 storey on RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, Delhi.

The demolition of old construction started in May 2002 and new

construction was completed in December 2003 on which he spent about

Rs.15 lacs. After completion of construction, Late Sh. Jagdish Prasad

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 7 was sent to reside only at the first floor of the house and since then, he

is residing in the said floor with his family. The second floor of the said

house was given on rent and the ground floor was kept by plaintiff no.1

and her husband for their personal use. Therefore, plaintiff no.1 and her

husband shifted some of their furniture and belongings there and used

to stay there for a day or two but before they could permanently shift

there, Jagdish Prasad and his wife started quarelling with plaintiff no.1.

Therefore, plaintiff no.1 and her husband dropped their plan of shifting

to the said house and kept the ground floor vacant as their belongings

were kept there under lock and key. Dr. Chhotey Lal resided throughout

his life at House no.1667/11, Kamla Park, Main Dharampura Road,

Najafgarh, Delhi.There was no formal partition of any property

acquired, owned and held by late Dr. Chhotey Lal. (vii) Dr. Chhotey Lal also submitted two applications for allotment of

LIG flats in DDA under Ambedkar Awas Yojna 1989, one application in

his name and another in the name of Sh. Jagdish Prasad, out of which in

the draw of lots, only the application in the name of Sh. Jagdish Prasad

succeeded and consequently, a flat no.357 in Sector 14, Dwarka, New

Delhi was allotted. Dr. Chhotey Lal made the payment of Rs.8,000/- for

each application towards registration fee and also made remaining

payment. The flat was given on rent by Dr. Chhotey Lal after its

possession. Sh. Jagdish Prasad did not do well in studies and his career,

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 8 he was asked by Dr. Chhotey Lal to assist him in his clinic. Sh. Jagdish

Prasad has never been in any employment except assisting his father.

Therefore, his father had to bear all his household expenses. Both the

sons of Sh. Jagdish Prasad have got education at the expense of Late Dr.

Chhotey Lal. Thereafter, Sh. Jagdish Prasad died of kidney ailment in

the year 2006. (viii) Late Dr. Chhotey Lal got the daughter of defendant namely

Meenakshi married after the death of her father and bore all the

expenses of the same but she is not residing in her matrimonial house

but is residing at RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, Delhi.

Dr. Chhotey Lal died intestate on 02.12.2010. Thereafter, defendants

no.1 and 3 asked plaintiff no.1 to give them entire property papers,

FDRs, passbooks of her deceased husband. They searched the house

and removed the box containing property documents, FDRs., bank

passbooks etc. and keys of the house and clinic and took them to their

residence i.e. RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, Delhi.

They also asked plaintiff to vacate House no.1667/11, Kamla Park,

Main Dharampura Road, Najafgarh, Delhi. After the death of Dr.

Chhotey Lal in December 2010, the defendants no.1 to 4 have not only

restricted the entry of plaintiff no.1 and other legal heirs of late Dr.

Chhotey Lal in RZ-28-B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, Delhi but

also started residing at the ground floor of the said house. On

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 9 06.12.2010, the defendants came to the residence of plaintiff no.1 and

started ransacking the house. They also threatened to kill plaintiff no.1.

Thereafter, a police complaint was made and a warning to given to the

defendants. They also pressurized plaintiff no.1 to vacate House

no.1667/11, Kamla Park, Main Dharampura Road, Najafgarh, Delhi and

shop no.723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh on which plaintiff no.1 made a

written complaint to local police. Thereafter on 07.12.2010, plaintiff

no.1 was assaulted and threatened by the defendants to be thrown out if

she did not vacate the premises. Plaintiff no.1 filed a suit bearing

no.259/2010 before Ld. JSCC cum CCJ, Dwarka Courts, Delhi for

permanent injunction. A Local Commissioner was appointed who

recorded statement of a neighbour stating that the shop no.723,

Gaushala Road, Najafgarh belonged to Late Dr. Chhotey Lal.

Defendants no.2 and 3 also got encashed FDRs of Dr.Chhotey Lal from

SBI Bank, Najafgarh Village branch and received a sum of

Rs.4,25,233/-. (ix) Thereafter, defendants no.1 to 4 also filed a suit bearing no.CS

1077/11 seeking partition of property no.1667/11, Kamla Park,

Najafgarh, New Delhi which is also pending. (x) The details of properties and other assets left behind by the

husband of plaintiff no.1 are as follows : Movable Properties : Chhotey Lal Abhaya in Punjab & Sind
 Bank, Najafgarh. 7. Amount not known- SB A/c No.21924/30 in the name of Dr.
 Chhotey Lal Abhaya in State Bank of
 India, Najafgarh. (xi) No formal partition of the above properties left behind by late Dr.

Chhotey Lal Abhaya has taken place. The plaintiffs being the wife and

sons have one fifth share in the estate left behind by late Sh. Chhotey

Lal Abhaya. The plaintiffs are also entitled to recover a sum of

Rs.2,03,251/- from the defendants being one fifth share in the total sum

lying in the bank accounts as mentioned above. Hence, this suit.

Proceedings of the Case 3. A perusal of the Court file reveals that the suit was

initially instituted in Hon'ble High Court of Delhi on 07.01.2013 along

with an application u/o XXXIX R 1 and 2 CPC . Summons along with

notice of the application were issued to the defendants on 14.01.2013

which were received back duly served. Thereafter, the defendants

entered appearance through their counsel and filed Written Statement. 4. In the Written Statement, it is averred by the defendants that the

present suit is liable to be dismissed for misjoinder and non joinder of

necessary parties. It is also averred that the present suit is not

maintainable as the properties i.e. RZ-28-B/1, Dharampura, Najafgarh,

New Delhi; Shop No.723, Gaushala Road and Flat no.357, Sector 14,

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 12 Dwarka, all were self acquired by late Sh. Jagdish Prasad, who was

husband of defendant no.1, out of his own funds. It is also averred that

the present suit is not maintainable in view of the fact that the plaintiff

has no right, title or interest in the properties. It is further averred that

Flat no.357, Sector-14, Dwarka, New Delhi was allotted to Late Sh.

Jagdish Prasad in his name by DDA and was later on sold by Late Sh.

Jagdish Prasad in 2006 during his lifetime and therefore, neither the

said flat nor the sale proceeds thereof can be considered as a part of the

estate of Late Dr. Chhotey Lal and hence, the said property can not be

partitioned as being exclusive property of Late Sh. Jagdish Prasad. It is

further averred that the plaintiff was earlier married to one Smt.

Chameli and out of the said wedlock, his elder son namely Sh. Jagdish

Abhaya was born. The defendants are the wife and children of Late Sh.

Jagdish Abhaya. It is further averred that plaintiff no.1 is the second

wife of late Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya and the children from the said

wedlock namely Dr. Avinash Abhaya, Smt. Mithlesh and Smt. Vijay

Laxmi were never having good relations with Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya

and used to mistreat him and therefore, he has not made them a

nominee in any of his FDs or savings. It is further averred that the

present suit is not maintainable in view of the fact that the defendants

had already filed one suit for partition with regards to the estate of Late

Dr. Chhotey Lal which was registered as Suit no.1077/2011 which wa

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 13 later on transferred before Hon'ble High Court and is still pending and

in that suit, the plaintiff has admitted that the defendants have 1/5th

share in property bearing no.RZ-1667/11, Kamla Park, Main

Dharampura Road, Najafgarh, Delhi - 110043 is the only immovable

property left behind by late Dr. Chhotey Lal. It is also averred that as

the present suit is also concerned with the same subject matter i.e. the

estate of Late Sh. Chhotey Lal, therefore the present suit is liable to be

stayed in view of Section 10 CPC. It is also averred that the relief

claimed herein is also barred by Section 11 of CPC and the plaintiff had

already filed one suit for permanent injunction which was between the

same parties and has already been decided against the plaintiff and

hence, can not be re-litigated by way of the present suit. It is also

averred that the suit has not been properly evaluated by the plaintiff

while instituting and the plaintiff has not paid appropriate court fees at

the time of institution of the plaint. 5. On 04.07.2013, admission-denial of documents was conducted

and the matter was fixed for framing of issues. On 12.07.2013, on the

basis of pleadings, the following issues were framed : action? OPD. (IV) Is the suit not maintainable due to non-joinder of parties? OPD.

(V) Is the suit property no.357, Sector-14, Dwarka, Delhi owned by

late husband of defendant no.1 and therefore, not amenable to partition?

OPD. (VI) Is the suit property no.RZ-B-B/1, Block-H, Najafgarh, New Delhi

a self-acquired property of late husband of defendant no.1 and,

therefore, no amenable to partition? OPD. (VII) Is the suit property no.723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh, New

Delhi a self-acquired property of late husband of defendant no.1 and,

therefore, not amenable to partition? OPD

(VIII) Relief. 6. Thereafter, the matter was fixed for PE. On 04.03.2014, an

application for consolidation of evidence in this suit as well as another

suit vide CS(OS) No.2701/2012 filed by defendant no.1 which was

allowed. On 10.03.2014, an application for consolidation of suit i.e. the

present suit as well as CS(OS) No.2701/2012. Another application for

amendment of issue, filed by defendants. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff

submitted that he did not want to file any reply to the said application

and intends to argument the same directly. Vide order dated 20.01.2015,

the application for amendment of issues was allowed and issue no.1

was reframed as under : Thereafter, the matter was again adjourned for PE.

Evidence of the Parties 7. On 18.03.2015, PW Smt. Dropti Devi was examined as PW-1.

She tendered her affidavit of evidence Ex.PW-1/A. She was partly cross

examined on 17.08.2015 before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and

thereafter, the matter was transferred to the Court of Ld. District Judge,

South-West, Dwarka, New Delhi vide order dated 10.02.2016.

Thereafter, an application under Order I R 10 of CPC was filed on

behalf of the Plaintiff to which reply was also filed and arguments were

heard. The said application was thereafter, allowed subject to cost vide

order dated 18.05.2017 and amended memo of parties was also filed. 8. Thereafter, another application under Order I R 10 of CPC was

filed on behalf of the Plaintiff for impleading the daughters as the

proposed Defendants which was also allowed subject to cost vide order

dated 12.02.2018 and matter was adjourned for further cross-

examination of PW-1. 9. No WS was filed on behalf of Defendants no. 5 and 6 and they

were proceeded ex-parte vide order dated 02.07.2018. However,

amended written statement was filed on 04.12.2018 on behalf of

Defendants no. 1 to 4. Thereafter, separate statement of Plaintiff no. 2

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 16 Dr. Avinash Abhaya was recorded wherein he was substituted as the

authority in place of Smt. Dropti Devi and affidavit of Plaintiff no. 1

Smt. Dropti Devi was taken off record in the absence of her cross-

examination vide order dated 26.09.2019. 10. Thereafter, on 22.02.2020, PW-1 Dr. Avinash Abhaya had

tendered his evidence by way of affidavit exhibited as Ex. PW1/A and

during cross-examination, he deposed that no document / title deed of

four properties which are the subject-matter of the present suit was filed

along with plaint. He denied the suggestion that no complaint was ever

lodged with the police and that is why, the same was not placed on

judicial record. He deposed that the property bearing flat no. 357,

Sector 14, Dwarka, New Delhi is in the name of late Sh. Jagdish Prasad,

husband of Defendant no. 1. He further deposed that the allotment of

the aforesaid flat was part of Ambedkar Awas Yojna, 1997 and the

allotment letter was given as per the priority list declared. Further cross-

examination of PW-1 was deferred. 11. Thereafter, on 17.12.2021, PW-1 Dr. Avinash Abhaya was further

cross examined and during further cross-examination, he denied the

suggestion that late Sh. Jagdish Prasad had knowledge of Ayurveda /

Homeopathy and father of late Sh. Jagdish Prasad was a government

doctor and hence could not practice in private clinic. His further cross-

examination was again deferred. Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 17 12. On 28.04.2022, PW-1 Dr. Avinash Abhaya was further cross

examined and during his further cross-examination, he admitted that he

had not filed any papers for the immovable properties mentioned on

page 15 of his affidavit in para 36 at serial nos. 1 to 4 and voluntarily

stated that these papers are not in his possession. Relevant extract of the

cross-examination of PW-1 is reproduced herein as under: 13. Thereafter, arguments were heard on the application under Order

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 18 XVI R 1(3) of CPC and the same was allowed subject to cost vide order

dated 08.06.2022. On 24.08.2022, PW-2 Sh. Mahender Singh, Assistant

Manager, Punjab and Sind Bank, Roshanpura, Najafgarh, New Delhi

was examined as a summoned witness and the record brought by him

was exhibited as Ex. PW2/1 which was the certified copy of FDR no.

698036; Ex. PW2/2 which is the certified copy of the application

submitted by Saurabh Singh for getting the payment of FDR; Ex.

PW2/3 i.e. statement of account of Saurabh Singh and Ex. PW2/4

which is also the statement of account. The witness was cross examined

by Ld. Counsel for Defendants no. 1 to 4 and discharged. 14. On 24.09.2022, PW-3 Sh. Roop Ram Meena and PW-4 Sh.

Mehtab Ali were examined-in-chief and their cross examination was

deferred. Thereafter, on 07.11.2022, both the witnesses were

discharged. On 17.12.2022, PW-5 Sh. Ashok Yadav had tendered his

evidence by way of affidavit exhibited as Ex. PW5/A and during cross-

examination by Ld. Counsel for Defendants no. 1 to 4, he deposed that

Dr. Chotey Lal Abhaya had only one wife and her name was Gayatri

Devi and that he had also another wife who had expired but he had not

seen her. He was discharged on the even date. On the same date, PW-6

Sh. Prem Raj had also tendered his evidence by way of affidavit

exhibited as Ex. PW6/A and he was also cross examined and

discharged. Thereafter, on 01.03.2023, PW-7 and PW-8 were also

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 19 examined, cross examined and discharged and thereafter, no other

witness was examined on behalf of the Plaintiff and PE was closed vide

separate statement of the Ld. Counsel for Plaintiff dated 01.03.2023 and

matter was proceeded for DE. 15. Thereafter, applications under Order VIII R 1A(3) of CPC and

under Order XI R 14 of CPC were moved on behalf of the Plaintiffs

which were dismissed and disposed off vide order dated 16.10.2023. On

04.01.2024, DW-1 Smt. Krishna Abhaya had tendered her evidence by

way of affidavit exhibited as Ex. DW1/X and relied upon the following

documents: and affidavit dated 18.06.1997 as Ex. DW1/4 (colly); (e) Original water bill of the property no. RZ-28B/1, Dharampura as

Ex. DW1/5; (f) Original electricity bill of the property no. RZ-28B/1,

Dharampura as Ex. DW1/6; (g) Copy of registered GPA dated 09.06.1994, Agreement to Sell

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 20 dated 06.09.1994, registered Will dated 09.06.1994 and Affidavit along

with receipt as Ex. DW1/7 (colly); (h) Original water connection bill of the shop no. 723, Gaushala

Road in the name of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Abhaya as Ex. DW1/8; (i) Original electricity bill of shop no. 723, Gaushala Road in the

name of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Abhaya as Ex. DW1/9; (j) Copy of DDA acknowledgment letter for flat no. 357, Sector 14,

Dwarka as Ex. DW1/10; (k) Certified copy of order dated 24.08.2022 as Ex. DW1/11; (l) Copy of pages from personal diary of late Dr. Chhotey Lal

Abhaya as Ex. DW1/12; (m) Copy of certificate of registration dated 30.04.1984 issued to Dr.

Jagdish Prasad Abhaya by registered Medical Practitioners Council as

Ex. DW1/13; (n) Copy of MLC in Safdarjung Hospital of Sh. Jagdish Prasad

Abhaya and her wife Smt. Krishna Devi dated 20.04.1997 as Ex.

DW1/14 and (o) Two original letter from Sub Post Master HSG II, Najafgarh,

New Delhi dated 16.11.2011 as Ex. DW1/15 (colly). 16. During cross-examination, DW-1 deposed that she did not know

as to whether her deceased husband received all the original previous

title chain of the shop no. 723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh, New Delhi in

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 21 the year 1994. She further deposed that she did not know as to whether

his deceased husband used to file ITRs or not. Relevant portion of the

cross-examination of DW-1 is extracted herein: 17. On the even date, DW-2 Sh. Chaman Lal who was a summoned

witness was also examined, cross-examined and discharged. The record

brought by him was summoned as Ex. DW2/1 (OSR) to Ex. DW2/4

(OSR). Thereafter, on 30.03.2024, DW-3 and DW-4 were also

examined, cross examined and discharged. DW-3 was a summoned

witness and DW-4 Sh. Gaurav Singh had tendered his evidence by way

of affidavit exhibited as Ex. DW4/X and during cross-examination, he

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 22 deposed that his father had purchased all the suit properties from his

own funds, out of his own income as he was a doctor and was a

registered medical practitioner. He further deposed that he has not

placed on record any document to show the medical qualification of his

father. He further deposed that he did not know as to whether his father

had ever filed ITR. He denied the suggestion that all the suit properties

were purchased by his grandfather Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya and that his

father had no financial capacity to meet out the medical expenses, etc.

Thereafter, the witness was confronted with an affidavit dated

16.02.2012 filed in suit no. 259/2010 which was exhibited as Ex.

DW4/X1. He deposed that he had never seen any document by which

his father had made any payment to DDA regarding the sale of the flat

bearing no. 357, Sector 14, Dwarka, New Delhi. He denied the

suggestion that his grandfather never had any reason to sell the said

shop and he was never in any financial difficulty to sell the said shop.

He deposed that the title documents pertaining to property bearing no.

RZ-28B/1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh, New Delhi are in their

possession and power. He admitted that whatever amount was received

towards encashment of the FDRs and bank accounts of their

grandfather was received by him and his father as his nominees. He

deposed that he had never paid any single penny out of the amount so

received to the Plaintiffs or other LRs of late Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya.

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 23 He was further cross examined at length and discharged on the even

date. 18. Thereafter, on 13.05.2024, DW-5 Sh. Saurabh Abhaya had

tendered his evidence by way of affidavit exhibited as Ex. DW5/A and

during cross-examination, he admitted that he had received the amounts

from the bank account, FDR, post office saving schemes of his

grandfather, being his nominee. He deposed that he never had any joint

account with his grandfather. Thereafter, the said witness was cross

examined at length and discharged on the even date. No other witness was examined on behalf of the Defendants and

therefore, DE was closed vide separate statement of Defendant no. 1

Smt. Krishna Abhaya and matter was fixed for final arguments. 19. Thereafter, it was submitted that the Plaintiff Dropti Devi had

expired and an application under Order XXII R 1 and 2 of CPC was

filed for impleading the LRs of the deceased Plaintiff which was

subsequently, allowed and disposed off vide order dated 08.07.2024 and

final arguments were heard. Contentions of the Parties 20. Final arguments were heard on behalf of the parties. Rebuttal

arguments were also heard. Written submissions were filed by the

parties. Ld. Counsel for the plaintiff has submitted that the plaintiff and

defendants No.5 & 6 are the widow, son and daughter respectively of

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 24 late Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya whereas defendant Nos. 1 to 4 are the

widow, sons and daughter of late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya who was the

pre deceased son of late Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya. 21. The case put forward by the plaintiff is that the suit properties

mentioned in para No.34 of the plaint are the self acquired properties of

Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya who was employed as Pharmasist. He also was

practising medicine and used to earn a handsome income. Dr. Chhote

Lal Abhaya made huge investments in the form of FDs, Post Office

Saving Schemes, Bank deposits and also purchased immovable

properties such as RZ-28-B1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh and flat

No.357, Sec.14 Dwarka in the name of his elder son i.e. Jagdish Prasad

Abhaya and a shop at 723, Goshala Road, Najafgarh in his name from

where he was running his clinic. Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya died intestate

on 02.12.2010 while Jagdish Prasad Abhaya had pre-deceased him on

08.11.2006 and had remained totally dependent on his father throughout

his life. On the death of Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya, the defendant Nos. 1 to

4 took away all the title documents, bank pass books and the same

remained in their possession. 22. It is submitted by ld. Counsel for plaintiff that the plaintiff has

been able to prove the case. In respect of the property at 723, Goshala

Road, Najafgarh, Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya had purchased the same in

1979 and the defendants NO. 1 to 4 have deliberately not placed on

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 25 record the previous chain of title documents pertaining to 723, Goshala

Road. The documents Ex. DW1/7, DW2/3 and DW2/4 dated

09.06.1994 are sham documents which have been prepared by

defendant Nos. 1 to 4 to lay a false claim on the aforesaid property. 23. It is further submitted that the defendants have deliberately not

placed on record the actual title documents of the property RZ28 B1,

Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh and the documents Ex. DW1/4

(colly), DW2/1 and DW2/2 pertains to some other property. The

defendants No. 1 to 4 have also not shown any record of the payments

made by late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya towards the flat No.357, Sec. 14 ,

Dwarka. They have dishonestly sold out the flat after demise of Jagdish

Prasad Abhaya and not disclosed the amount of sale proceed received

by them. The only document placed on record by defendant Nos. 1 to 4

to show that late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya was a Doctor is Ex. DW1/13

which is a forged and bogus documents. PW5 and PW6 who were

neighbours of late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya have categorically stated that

he was not a doctor and that they never saw him working as one. The

defendants have not placed any income tax returns or bank pass book to

show the financial situation of late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya and adverse

inferance must be drawn against them. Therefore, it is established that

the suit properties were purchased by late Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya in the

name of his elder son Jagdish Prasad Abhaya. Dr. Chhote Lal Abhaya

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 26 never executed any Will or Gift Deed in favour of any party to the suit. Ld. Counsel for plaintiff has submitted that the property purchased by

the father in the name of the son is not hit by provisions of the Benami

Transactions Act and had placed reliance upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Marcel Martins Vs. M. Printer & Ors . 24. Qua the movable property, it has been submitted by ld. Counsel

for plaintiff that the defendants have given false statements on oath and

concealed the amount received by them as nominees of late Dr. Chhote

Lal Abhaya. It has been submitted that it is the settled law that the

nominee is not entitled to retain the amount received by them by virtue

of the nomination. Reliance has been placed upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sharbati Devi vs. Usha Devi, 1984, 1 SCC 424. 25. Per contra, it has been submitted on behalf of defendant Nos. 1 to

4 that the plaintiff had filed the suit for partition which is not

maintainable as the properties in question were the self acquired

properties of late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya and purchased from its own

funds. It has been submitted that DW2 has produced the documents

relating to house No.RZ-28 B1, Block H, Dharampura, Najafgarh

showing that the property is registered in the name of Jagdish Prasad

Abhaya and similar is the situation qua shop No.723, Gaushala Road,

Najafgarh. PW3 has proved that the flat No.357, Sec.14 , Dwarka was

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 27 allotted to Jagdish Prasad Abhaya and the payment was also made by

him on 07.06.2000. It is further submitted that Jagdish Prasad Abhaya

had his own medical practice and a shop in the name of Jagdish Health

Clinic and the electricity and water bills of the shop at 723, Gaushala

Road, Najafgarh is also in the name of late Jagdish Prasad Abhaya.

Therefore, it has been submitted that no case is made out and same is

liable to be dismissed. Issue Wise Findings

Issue no. (II): Is the suit barred by the principles of res judicata? OPD. 26. This issue was never pressed and moreover, it has not been

shown that a similar suit was filed in regard to the suit properties in

question before the present suit or that the same matter in issue had

already been decided between the parties qua the suit properties of the

present suit. Therefore, this issue is decided in favour of the Plaintiffs

and against the Defendants. Issue no. (III) : Is the suit liable to be dismissed for not disclosing any

cause of action? OPD. 27. The present suit has been filed for partition of the alleged

immovable and movable assets of the deceased intestate Dr. Chhotey

Lal Abhaya. There is no reason to find that the suit does not have a

cause of action. Therefore, this issue is decided in favour of the

Plaintiffs and against the Defendants. Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 28 Issue no. (IV): Is the suit not maintainable due to non-joinder of

parties? OPD. 28. It has not been shown by the Defendants that any of the necessary

parties have not been joined to the suit. It is not claimed that there is

any other LR of Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya who is not party to the suit. In

a partition suit, only the LRs of the deceased intestate as per the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956 are the necessary parties. Therefore, this issue is

decided in favour of the Plaintiffs and against the Defendants.

Issue no. (V): Is the suit property no.357, Sector-14, Dwarka, Delhi

owned by late husband of defendant no.1 and therefore, not amenable to

partition? OPD. 29. I find that the Defendants have been able to prove that the said

suit property being no. 357, Sector-14, Dwarka, Delhi was the self

acquired property of late Jagdish Lal Abhaya. The witness DW-1 has

placed on record the documents showing the allotment by DDA of the

flat as Ex. DW1/10. A perusal of the same would show that the DDA

has allotted the plot vide the acknowledgment letter dated 08.03.2006.

No suggestion has been given to the witness DW-1 that the said

document was a forged and fabricated document or that the suit

property was not allotted to late Jagdish Lal Abhaya by the DDA. In

fact, the same has been admitted by PW-1 during cross-examination

wherein he himself states that the allotment was part of Ambedkar Awas

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 29 Yojna, 1997 and that the same was given as per the priority list. It has

also been admitted that the property is in the name of late Sh. Jagdish

Prasad Abhaya. In fact, the Plaintiff examined PW-3 who produced the

record from the DDA and who testified that the said plot was allotted to

Jagdish Prasad Abhaya. He deposed that "As per records, the said flat

was allotted to one Sh. Jagdish Prasad Abhaya R/o 1667/11, Kamla

Park, Najafgarh and for the allotment of this flat, a payment of Rs.

3,35,934/- by way of pay order drawn on Syndicate Bank, Shadipur,

Delhi, vide challan No. 215550 dated 07.06.2000. As per record, vide

letter dated 28.05.2001, the physical possession of the said flat was

given to allottee Jagdish Prasad Abhaya. Further, as per record, the

conveyance deed for this flat was executed on 22.03.2006 in the name

of Jagdish Prasad Abhaya S/o Sh. Chhotey Lal Abhaya. Original

records seen and returned. As per procedure, if the said flat is resold by the allottee to any

third person, DDA has no role to play." 30. However, the main thrust of the Plaintiff is that the sale

consideration was given by late Chhotey Lal Abhaya and therefore, the

property would form part of the estate of Chhotey Lal Abhaya and not

Jagdish Prasad Abhaya. Firstly, there is no evidence to show that

Chhotey Lal Abhaya had paid the sale consideration. Moreover, even if

that is the case, it would not mean that the property would belong to

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 30 Chhotey Lal Abhaya. It was the specific contention of the Counsel for

Plaintiff that the prohibition under the Benami Transactions

(Prohibition) Act, 1988 would not apply. 31. Section 4 of the Benami Act reads as under: whom he is a trustee or towards whom he stands in such

 capacity." 32. At this stage, I would like to place reliance on the judgment of

the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Amar N Gugnani v. Naresh Kumar

Gugnani 2015 SCC Online Del 11248, where the Hon'ble Court

explained the law extensively in context of a similar claim. The

following is the relevant portion of the judgment:- and a relationship of a trustee cannot be so interpreted so

 as to in fact negate the Benami Act itself because all

 benami transactions actually are in the nature of trust and

 create a fiduciary relationship and if the expression

 "trustee" or "fiduciary relationship" is interpreted liberally

 to even include within its fold a typical benami transaction,

 then it would amount to holding that there is no Benami

 Act at all. Putting in other words, since Section 7 of the

 Benami Act repealed certain provisions, hence, the

 relationship of trust comprised in such provisions

 necessarily would be excluded from the sweep of the

 expression trust/fiduciary relationship found in Section

 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act because what is excluded by Section 7 of the Benami Act cannot be got included in Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. Let me at this stage

 refer to the relevant paras in the judgment in the case of J

 M Kohli (supra) and these paras read as under: 8. In a way, therefore, there may be some ostensible

 conflict between the provision of Section 4(3)(b) of the

 Benami Act and Section 7 of the same Act which repeals

 the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 , however, one

 has to read and interpret Section 4(3)(b) in a manner which

 is in accord with the legislative intention to bar claims

 against properties held as benami. The concept of trust was

 always inbuilt once a transaction was a benami transaction

 as the benamidar was the trustee for the real owner. But in

 spite of the concept of trust being inbuilt in benami

 transactions, the Benami Act provided that no rights could

 be asserted in a benami property by the actual/de jure

 owner. Putting it differently, once Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the India Trusts Act, 1882 have been repealed, they

 cannot be brought in from the back door, so to say, by

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 35 giving the same content contained in the repealed

 provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts

 Act, 1882 to Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. If we give

 such an interpretation, the entire Benami Act will fall and

 it will be as if the same has not been enacted. Therefore, Section 4(3)(b) which provides that the property which is

 held as a trustee or in a fiduciary capacity must be

 interpreted in the sense that the trustee or a person who is

 holding the property in a fiduciary capacity has either

 committed a fraud and got the property title in his name or

 is in furtherance of law holding property in his name

 however in the capacity of a trustee or in fiduciary

 capacity, although the real owner is somebody else.

 Repealed Sections 81 , 82 and 94 of the Indian Trusts Act,

 1882 read as under:- 9. Two of the examples where the Supreme Court has held

 the property to be held as a trustee in terms of Section 4(3) (b) of the Benami Act are the judgments in the cases of C.

 Gangacharan v. C. Narayanan , ( 2000) 1 SCC 459 and P.V.

 Sankara Kurup v. Leelavathy Nambiar , (1994) 6 SCC 68. In the case of C. Gangacharan (supra), the Supreme Court

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 37 has held that the property was held as a trustee as per Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act, and the person in

 whose name the property stood cannot take up a plea of the

 bar of Benami Act , inasmuch as, actually the owner had

 given moneys for the property to be purchased under his

 name, however, the moneys were in fraud utilized to get

 the property purchased in the name of defendants in that

 suit. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra) also the

 obvious fraud which was perpetrated was that the property

 was to be purchased in the name of the plaintiff by his

 attorney holder and which the defendants did not do and

 instead got the property purchased directly in their name. In the case of P.V. Sankara Kurup (supra), the Supreme

 Court was dealing with Section 66 of CPC as it existed

 before its repeal by Section 7 of the Benami Act and in the

 facts of the case as stated above it was held that the

 purchaser had acted in fiduciary capacity as an agent and

 consequently the bar of the Benami Act would not apply. In the said judgment , the Supreme Court held that when

 the agent was employed to purchase the property on behalf

 of his principal, however does so in his own name, i.e. the

 agent's name then upon conveyance or transfer of the

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 38 property to the agent, he stands as a trustee for the

 principal. 10. Therefore, in certain cases where there is obvious

 breach of trust in purchasing the property in the name of a

 person, whereas it ought to have been purchased in the

 name of the principal or the real owner, Supreme Court

 has, to that limited extent, held that such actions are

 covered under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act and such

 transactions are not hit by the Benami Act ." 12. It need not be again said, but at the cost of repetition it

 bears note that the expression "trustee" or "fiduciary

 relationship" cannot be interpreted in such a manner that

 the definition of "benami transaction" provided under Section 2(a) of the Benami Act and prohibited by Sections

 4(1) & 4(2) of the Benami Act is totally washed away,

 inasmuch as, it is the benami transactions which are sought

 to be completely barred by the provisions of the Benami

 Act . 13. In the judgment in J M Kohli 's case (supra) certain

 cases where there is a relationship of trust and fiduciary

 relationship, and which cases are exempted from operation

 of the Benami Act and they fall under the exception of

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 39 Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act are given in para 9 by

 reference to the judgments of the Supreme Court in the

 cases of C. Gangacharan v. C. Narayanan ( 2000) 1 SCC

 459 and P.V. Sankara Kurup v. Leelavathy Nambiar (1994)

 6 SCC 68. These Supreme Court judgments held as to

 when a relationship of trustee would be covered under Section 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act for the same not to be a

 benami transaction which is barred as per Section 2(a) read

 with Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act. Para 9 of

 the judgment in JM Kohli 's case (supra) gives the facts of

 these two Supreme Court judgments and hence the factual

 reasons why those cases fell in the exception of Section

 4(3)(b) of the Benami Act. ....... A reading of the judgment in the case of Marcel

 Martins (supra) shows that on the facts of the said case it

 was held that there was a fiduciary relationship and a

 relationship in the nature of trust, inasmuch as, actually all

 the parties were to be the owners but for the fact that the

 Corporation had desired, and which is in fact in the nature

 of compulsion by the Corporation and as per its policy, the

 property by the Corporation was not transferred in the

 name of all the legal heirs of Smt. Stella Martins but only

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 40 in the name of one legal heir. Such transactions compassed

 in the case of Marcel Martins (supra), and which were

 brought about on the direction of a third party, is different

 from a voluntary transaction where a person voluntarily

 gives money for property to be purchased in the name of

 another person and in which case such a transaction where

 A pays money for the property to be purchased in the name

 of B, this by itself will necessarily be a benami transaction

 under Section 2(a) of the Benami Act which states that any

 transaction in which property is transferred to one person

 for a consideration paid or provided by another person,

 such a transaction is a benami transaction, and such

 benami transactions are subject matter of prohibition of Sections 4(1) and 4(2) of the Benami Act." (emphasis

 supplied) 33. The above is a complete answer to the points of fact and law

raised by the Plaintiff to buttress their claim that the property in

question belonged to Chhotey Lal Abhaya and not Jagdish Prasad

Abhaya. Much stress has been laid upon the fact that Jagdish Prasad

Abhaya was not having a source of income and that the medical

practice certificate produced by the Defendants is forged and fabricated.

The Plaintiff cannot seek to prove their case by proving the negative i.e.

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 41 that Jagdish Prasad Abhaya did not have a source of income to purchase

the property. They had to prove that the document was either in the

name of Chhotey Lal Abhaya which they could not do so. As far as the

contention of the Benami Transaction i.e. that the sale consideration

was paid by Chhotey Lal Abhaya but property was in the name of his

son Jagdish Prasad Abhaya is concerned, the judgment of Amar N.

Gugnani (supra) is a complete answer to the same and such claim is

barred by Section 4 of the Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988. Therefore, the present issue is decided against the Plaintiff and in

favour of the Defendants. Issue no. (VI): Is the suit property no.RZ-B-B/1, Block-H, Najafgarh,

New Delhi a self-acquired property of late husband of defendant no.1

and, therefore, no amenable to partition? OPD. 34. The observations qua issue no. (V) above will apply mutatis

mutandis to the present issue as well. The Plaintiffs have failed to

produce a single document showing that the said property has been

purchased and was owned by Chhotey Lal Abhaya. Merely trying to

prove the negative i.e. that the said property could not be purchased by

Jagdish Prasad Abhaya because he was not having a source of income

or that the said property is not in the name of Jagdish Prasad Abhaya is

not sufficient for the Plaintiffs to succeed. The Plaintiff's case has to

stand on its own legs and it is for the Plaintiff to prove with positive

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 42 evidence that the said property was in fact, owned by Chhotey Lal

Abhaya. In absence of such evidence, it is difficult to find in favour of

the Plaintiffs and rather, more weightage will have to be given to the

documents produced by the Defendants which is the registered GPA,

Will Ex. DW2/1 and Ex. DW2/2 respectively. In so far as the contention

that the sale consideration was paid by Chhotey Lal Abhaya is

concerned, the judgment of Amar N. Gugnani (supra) as discussed

above, will apply. Therefore, this issue is decided against the Plaintiffs and in

favour of the Defendants. Issue no. (VII): Is the suit property no.723, Gaushala Road, Najafgarh,

New Delhi a self-acquired property of late husband of defendant no.1

and, therefore, not amenable to partition? OPD 35. The observations qua issue no. (V) and (VI) above will apply

mutatis mutandis to the present issue as well. The Plaintiffs have failed

to produce a single document showing that the said property has been

purchased and was owned by Chhotey Lal Abhaya. Merely trying to

prove the negative i.e. that the said property could not be purchased by

Jagdish Prasad Abhaya because he was not having a source of income

or that the said property is not in the name of Jagdish Prasad Abhaya is

not sufficient for the Plaintiffs to succeed. The Plaintiff's case has to

stand on its own legs and it is for the Plaintiff to prove with positive

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 43 evidence that the said property was in fact, owned by Chhotey Lal

Abhaya. The Plaintiffs have not proved any such documents. Certain

documents have been placed on record showing that the suit property

was earlier sold to Chhotey Lal Abhaya. However, no such documents

have been proved by the Plaintiffs. On the other hand, apart from the

Will and GPA which are registered in favour of Jagdish Prasad Abhaya,

the Plaintiff has also produced the original water bill dated 23.03.2005

Ex. DW1/8 in the name of Jagdish Prasad Abhaya and original

electricity bill Ex. DW1/9 dated 11.12.1999. In absence of such

evidence, it is difficult to find in favour of the Plaintiffs and rather,

more weightage will have to be given to the documents produced by the

Defendants which is the registered GPA, Will Ex. DW2/3 and Ex.

DW2/4 respectively. In so far as the contention that the sale

consideration was paid by Chhotey Lal Abhaya is concerned, the

judgment of Amar N. Gugnani (supra) as discussed above, will apply. Therefore, this issue is decided against the Plaintiffs and in

favour of the Defendants. Issue no. (I): Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief of partition of the

properties and declaring her 1/5th share therein? OPP. 36. The Plaintiffs have also claimed partition of the movable

properties i.e. the monies in FD / Post office savings / savings accounts

etc left by the deceased intestate Dr. Chhotey Lal Abhaya. A perusal of

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 44 the evidence would show that the following accounts have been

proved:- paid to Gaurav Singh Abhaya and Saurabh Singh Abhaya as they were

the nominees (Ex. PW7/3 and Ex. PW7/4). (f) Saving account no. 1519000100084375 in the name of Dr.

Chhotey Lal Abhaya with Punjab National Bank, Najafgarh branch (Ex.

PW8/1). No evidence has been provided by the Defendants as to why the

aforesaid property should not be partitioned being the movable property

owned by deceased intestate Chhotey Lal Abhaya. Merely being the

nominee does not override the scheme of succession under the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956 . It is a settled law that nominees are merely

entitled to receive the amount but not entitled to enjoy the exclusive

possession thereof as against the co-sharers. 37. I find that the maturity amount or the amount lying in the

aforesaid accounts apart from the account as mentioned in para (d)

above, forms the estate of the deceased intestate Dr. Chhotey Lal

Abhaya and has to be partitioned as per Section 8 of the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956 among his LRs. Plaintiff no. 1 and 2 and

Defendants no. 5 and 6 are the widow, son and daughters of Chhotey

Lal Abhaya and therefore, they will take an independent equal share,

whereas, Defendants no. 1 to 4 being the widow, sons and daughter of

the predeceased son i.e. Jagdish Prasad Abhaya of the deceased

intestate will take one share as a whole collectively.

Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 46 38. Therefore, the Plaintiff is entitled to a decree of partition of the

movables as mentioned in paras (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) above.

Defendants no. 2 and 3 having received the sums as nominees in

accounts mentioned in paras (a), (c) and (e) are liable to deliver up the

shares of the other co-sharers to them. Therefore, this issue is decided accordingly in favour of the

Plaintiffs. Relief 39. Therefore, the suit of the plaintiff is partly decreed and a decree

of partition is passed in the movable properties declaring that the

Plaintiff no. 1, Plaintiff no. 2, Defendant no. 5, Defendant no. 6 have a

share of 1/5th each and Defendants no. 1 to 4 have a collective share of

1/5th in the following movable properties i.e. money in the below

mentioned accounts:- Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors. Suit No. 17251/16 47 (e) FDR bearing no. 30175352449 in State Bank of India, Najafgarh

main branch, New Delhi; (f) Saving account no. 1519000100084375 in the name of Dr.

Chhotey Lal Abhaya with Punjab National Bank, Najafgarh branch. 40. Costs of the suit are also to be awarded to the Plaintiffs and to be

paid by Defendants no. 1 to 4. Parties are entitled to realize the amounts

by way of appropriate execution proceedings. 41. The relief not granted explicitly herein are deemed to have been

refused to the Plaintiffs. The suit, in so far as the relief of partition of

the immovable properties is concerned, stands dismissed. 42. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 43. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Smt. Dropti Devi & Anr. Vs Smt. Krishna Abhaya and Ors.