1.	The present 482 Cr.P.C . application has been filed to quash the charge sheet no. 1/2019 dated 5th January, 2019 and Cognizance taking order dated 19th July, 2019 passed in Criminal Case No. 3374 of 2019 ( State Vs. Arvind & Others ), under Sections 323 , 504 , 506 , 376 , 377 and 420 I.P.C., Police Station-Surajpur, District-Gautam Budh Nagar, arising out of Case Crime No. 940 of 2018, under Sections 323 , 504 , 506 , 376 and 377 I.P.C., Police Station-Surajpur, District-Gautam Budh Nagar, pending in the Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar. The applicants have further prayed for stay of the aforesaid criminal proceedings during the pendency of the present application. 2.	Heard Mr. Ranjit Saxena, learned counsel for the applicants, Mr. Daya Shanker Pandey, learned counsel for opposite party no.2 and Mr. Pankaj Srivastava, learned A.G.A. for the State as well as perused the entire material available on record. 3.	On the matter being taken up, on 19th October, 2019, a Coordinate Bench of this Court passed following order: 4. Before addressing the legal aspects of the case before this Court, it would be worthwhile to record the following relevant facts for deciding the present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C.: 5.	The said first information report lodged by opposite party no.2 has been challenged by all the five named accused persons including applicant nos. 1 and 2 by means of Criminal Misc. Writ Petition no. 27147 of 2018. The said writ petition has been disposed of by a Division Bench of this Court vide order dated 28th September, 2018, wherein the arrest of the accused persons have been stayed till filing of the Police report under Section 173 (2) Cr.P.C. 6.	On lodging of the aforesaid first information report, the Investigating Officer has recorded statements of witnesses. After completing statutory investigation under Chapter XII Cr.P.C ., the Police has submitted the charge-sheet against the applicants under Sections 323 , 504 , 506 , 376 , 377 and 420 I.P.C. On submission of the aforesaid charge-sheet, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate-II, Gautam Budh Nagar has taken cognizance vide order dated 19th July, 2019 and has directed registration of the case which has been registered as Criminal Case No. 3374 of 2019 ( State Vs. Arvind & Others ), under Sections 323 , 504 , 506 , 376 , 377 and 420 I.P.C., Police Station-Surajpur, District-Gautam Budh Nagar. Both the applicants have also been summoned by the court below vide order dated 19th July, 2019. It is against the aforesaid charge-sheet and taking cognizance order/summoning order that the present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. has been filed. 7.	Mr. Ranjit Saxena, learned counsel for the applicants has made following submissions on behalf of the applicants: Santosh Prasad Vs. The State of Bihar reported in 2020 (3) SCC 443; (xi) In Re: Assessment of the Criminal Justice System In Response to Sexual Offences reported in 2020 (1) ALT (Crl.) 1 (A.P.); (xii) P. Gopalkrishnan Vs. State of Keral & Others reported in 2019 (16)SCALE 752/AIR 2020 SC 1; (xiii) Ganga Prasad Mahto Vs. State of Bihar & Others reported in 2019 (5) SCALE 305. X.	Learned counsel for the applicants has also placed reliance upon the following judgments of this Court: 8.	Per contra, Mr. Pankaj Srivastava, learned A.G.A. for the State as well as Mr. D.S. Mishra, learned counsel for opposite party no.2 have opposed the prayer made by the learned counsel for the applicants. 9.	I.	Learned A.G.A. submits that applicant no.1 has committed rape upon the victim/opposite party no.2 forcibly against her wishes and thereafter the investigation was concluded and charge-sheet has been submitted against the applicants. II.	Learned A.G.A. further submits that the judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the applicants in the cases of Parminder Kaur, Rakesh Kumar Yadav, Santosh Prasad, In Re: Assessment of the Criminal Justice System in Response to Sexual Offences, P. Gopalkrishnan, Ganga Prasad Mahto and S. Khusboo (Supras) are either in appeals or against conviction or in different footing having no reliance to the person, as such the same are not applicable in the facts of the present case. III.	Learned A.G.A. further states that the submission made by the learned counsel for the applicant that in view of the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar vs. State of Maharashtra & Others reported in 2019 (1) SCALE-64, Page-111-121, this Hon'ble Court exercising its inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. may quash the charge-sheet in such a heinous crime is liable to be rejected, as the said judgment is not applicable in the facts of the present case. In the said case, the complainant has forcibly raped the victim but in the present case the applicant no.1/accused raped the victim/informant not forcibly but against her wishes by promising to marry her. IV.	Learned A.G.A. further states that the judgment relied upon by the learned counsel for the applicant in the case of Pramod Surya Bhan Pawar Vs. The State of Maharashtra will also not be applicable in the facts of the present case because in the aforesaid case the accused and the victim lived in relation upto 12 year w.e.f. 2004 to 2016. They knew each other since 1998 and were intimated since 2004. Further the judgment relied upon by the learned counsel for the applicants in the case of Ahmad Ali Quaraishi & Others Vs. State of U.P. & Others is also not applicable in the facts of the present case. In the said case the Apex Court has quashed the charge-sheet because civil dispute was going on between the parties. V.	Lastly, the learned A.G.A. states that this High Court may not quash the entire criminal proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for which he has relied upon the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Mohd. Allauddin Khan Vs. The State of Bihar & Others reported in 2019 0 Supreme (SC) 454, wherin the Apex Court has held that the High Court had no jurisdiction to appreciate the evidence of the proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C. because whether there are contradictions or/and inconsistencies in the statements of the witnesses is an essential issue relating to appreciation of evidence and the same can be gone into by the Judicial Magistrate during trial when the entire evidence is adduced by the parties. However, in the present case the said state is yet to come. VI.	Learned A.G.A. has further relied upon the judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Rajeev Kaurav Vs. Balasahab & Others reported in 2020 0 Supreme (SC) 143, wherein the Apex Court has held that it is no more res integra that exercise of power under Section 482 CrPC to quash a criminal proceeding is only when an allegation made in the FIR or the charge sheet constitutes the ingredients of the offence/offences alleged. Interference by the High Court under Section 482 CrPC is to prevent the abuse of process of any law or Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. It is settled law that the evidence produced by the accused in his defence cannot be looked into by the Court, except in very exceptional circumstances, at the initial stage of the criminal proceedings. It is trite law that the High Court cannot embark upon the appreciation of evidence while considering the petition filed under Section 482 CrPC for quashing criminal proceedings. It is clear from the law laid down by this Court that if a prima facie case is made out disclosing the ingredients of the offence alleged against the accused, the Court cannot quash a criminal proceeding. VII.	The learned A.G.A. further relied upon the judgments of this Court in the cases of V.K. Rai & Another Vs. State & Another passed in Application U/S 482 No. 3707 2004, decided on 29th April, 2019 and Sri Rudra Prakash Tiwari @ Raju Tiwari & Another Vs. State of U.P. & Another passed in Application U/S 482 No. 12608 of 2020 decided on 6th October, 2020. VIII.	On the cumulative strength of the aforesaid submissions, learned A.G.A. states that this Court may not exercise its inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. in the present case, and hence the present application is liable to be rejected. 10.	I.	Mr. D.S. Pandey, learned counsel for opposite party no.2 submits that the submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants that the criminal proceedings initiated by opposite party no.2 against the applicants is a case of counter blast to the criminal proceedings initiated by applicant no.1 against opposite party no.2 have no legs to stand on the ground that opposite party no.2 has lodged the first information report on 17th September, 2018 at 04:34 p.m, whereas applicant no.1 has lodged first information report against opposite party no.2 along with her two alleged colleagues on 25th September, 2018 at 22:31 p.m. under order of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate-II, Gautam Budh Nagar dated 20th September, 2018 in an application under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. Apart from the above, the submission of the learned counsel for the applicants that for lodging of the first information report, he has made an application before the Station House Officer, Police Station-Surajpur, District-Gautambudh Nagar on 16th September, 2018, a copy of which has been enclosed at page nos. 52 to 54 of the paper book, has also no leg to stand, as the receipt of the speed post from which the said application has been sent is of dated 17th September, 2018. Learned counsel for opposite party no.2 applicant, therefore, submits that from the aforesaid it is clear that the criminal proceedings initiated by applicant no.1 against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues are counter blast to the criminal proceedings initiated by opposite party no.2 against the applicants. II.	Learned counsel for opposite party no.2 further submits that the Investigating Officer has investigated both the aforesaid cases, but he has submitted the charge-sheet against the applicants in the criminal case which has been initiated by opposite party no.2, whereas the Investigating Officer has submitted final report in the criminal case which has been initiated by applicant no.1 against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues. Learned counsel for opposite party no.2, therefore, submits that from the aforesaid, it is clear that the allegations made by applicant no.1 against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues have been found to be fake and false, whereas the allegations made by opposite party no.2 against the applicants have been found to be correct and genuine. III.	Learned counsel for opposite party no.2 further submits that the submission of the learned counsel for the applicants that applicant no.1 was only a friend of opposite party no.2 and being married person, he has never lived with opposite party no.2 as her husband nor he has established any physical relations with her on the promise to marry her, is also liable to be rejected. Initially, applicant no.1 has concealed from opposite party no.2 that he is already married having one daughter. By concealing the said fact, he lived with her as husband and established physical relations with her on the promise to marry her, which is a case of rape as the same has committed against her wishes by cheating and deception, which makes out an offence under Section 376 I.P.C. against him. As soon as opposite party no.2 came to know that applicant no.1 was already married, she used to exert pressure upon him to marry with her but he again and again pretended and avoided and ultimately, opposite party no.2 was bound to lodge first information report. IV.	Learned counsel for opposite party no.2 further states that though opposite party no.2 has refused to get herself examined internally but from the medical examination report of external part of opposite party no.2, it is clear that physical relation has been established between opposite party no.2 and applicant no.1 as husband and wife and the same has been continued for more than two years as she has believed that applicant no.1 would marry her. On believing applicant no.1, opposite party no.2 was giving her salary to applicant no.1 for performing his business of cybercafe in which they spent sometimes and everybody knew that they were husband and wife. V.	Learned counsel for opposite party no.2 further states that it is heinous offence, as applicant no.1 has raped her on the promise to marry but against her wishes. On asking of opposite party no.2 as to when, he would perform marriage with her, he always avoided saying that at the earliest he would marry her but he has not solemnized marriage with her and also misbehaved and threatened her. Opposite party no.2 being innocent lady has believed the false promise of applicant no.1 and started living with him as his wife but she did not know that applicant no.1 was cheating and committing rape behind the false promise of marriage. It is not a case of living relation but it is case of cheating and deception by establishing physical relation with the victim on the promise to marry her but against her wishes. Since applicant no.1 has established physical relations with opposite party no.2 since long on the promise to marry her but against her wishes, case of rape i.e. offence under Section 376 I.P.C. is made out against the applicants. VI.	In view of the aforesaid submissions, the learned counsel for opposite party no.2, thus, submits that the present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is liable to be rejected. 11.	I have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the records of the present application. 12.	The submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants that neither applicant no.1 has committed rape upon the informant nor he has established any physical relations with her on promise to marry her or on deception that he is already married, he was only his friend, is liable to be rejected on the ground that the said issue cannot be examined at this stage because the trial has yet to come, in which documentary as well as oral evidence shall be led by the prosecution side as well as defense side and thereafter on the basis of the said evidence, the said issue can be examined and decided. 13.	At this stage, as per the case of the prosecution, this Court comes on the issue as to whether case for the alleged offence under Section 376 I.P.C. is made out against the applicants or not. The Apex Court in the case of Anurag Soni Vs. State of Chhattishgarh reported in (2019) 13 SCC 1, has observed that if prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that consent of prosecutrix was obtained by accused on false promise to marry her, through knowing well from very beginning that he had no such intention, it cannot be treated as consent but amounts to cheating and consent given under "misconception of fact" within the meaning of Section 90 I.P.C. In paragraph nos. 14 to 19 the Apex Court has observed as follows: "14.	Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case and the evidence on record, the prosecution has been successful in proving the case that from the very beginning the accused never intended to marry the prosecutrix; he gave false promises/promise to the prosecutrix to marry her and on such false promise he had a physical relation with the prosecutrix; the prosecutrix initially resisted, however, gave the consent relying upon the false promise of the accused that he will marry her and, therefore, her consent can be said to be a consent on misconception of fact as per Section 90 of the IPC and such a consent shall not excuse the accused from the charge of rape and offence under Section 375 of the IPC. 15.	Though, in Section 313 statement, the accused came up with a case that the prosecutrix and his family members were in knowledge that his marriage was already fixed with Priyanka Soni, even then, the prosecutrix and her family members continued to pressurise the accused to marry the prosecutrix, it is required to be noted that first of all the same is not proved by the accused. Even otherwise, considering the circumstances and evidence on record, referred to hereinabove, such a story is not believable. The prosecutrix, in the present case, was an educated girl studying in B. Pharmacy. Therefore, it is not believable that despite having knowledge that that appellant's marriage is fixed with another lady - Priyanka Soni, she and her family members would continue to pressurise the accused to marry and the prosecutrix will give the consent for physical relation. 16. In the deposition, the prosecutrix specifically stated that initially she did not give her consent for physical relationship, however, on the appellant's promise that he would marry her and relying upon such promise, she consented for physical relationship with the appellant-accused. Even considering Section 114-A of the Indian Evidence Act, which has been inserted subsequently, there is a presumption and the court shall presume that she gave the consent for the physical relationship with the accused relying upon the promise by the accused that he will marry her. As observed hereinabove, from the very inception, the promise given by the accused to marry the prosecutrix was a false promise and from the very beginning there was no intention of the accused to marry the prosecutrix as his marriage with Priyanka Soni was already fixed long back and, despite the same, he continued to give promise/false promise and alluded the prosecutrix to give her consent for the physical relationship. 17. Therefore, considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case and considering the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions, we are of the opinion that both the Courts below have rightly held that the consent given by the prosecutrix was on misconception of fact and, therefore, the same cannot be said to be a consent so as to excuse the accused for the charge of rape as defined under Section 375 of the IPC. Both the Courts below have rightly convicted the accused for the offence under Section 376 of the IPC. 18. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused-appellant that the accused had marriage with Priyanka Soni on 10.06.2013 and even the prosecutrix has also married and, therefore, the accused may not be convicted is concerned, the same cannot be accepted. The prosecution has been successful by leading cogent evidence that from the very inspection the accused had no intention to marry the victim and that he had mala fide motives and had made false promise only to satisfy the lust. But for the false promise by the accused to marry the prosecutrix, the prosecutrix would not have given the consent to have the physical relationship. It was a clear case of cheating and deception. 19.	As observed hereinabove, the consent given by the prosecutrix was on misconception of fact. Such incidents are on increase now-a-days. Such offences are against the society. Rape is the most morally and physically reprehensible crime in a society, an assault on the body, mind and privacy of the victim. As observed by this Court in a catena of decisions, while a murderer destroys the physical frame of the victim, a rapist degrades and defiles the soul of a helpless female. Rape reduces a woman to an animal, as it shakes the very core of her life. By no means can a rape victim be called an accomplice. Rape leaves a permanent scar on the life of the victim. Rape is a crime against the entire society and violates the human rights of the victim. Being the most hated crime, the rape tantamounts to a serious blow to the supreme honour of a woman, and offends both her esteem and dignity. .........." 14.	The submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants that no case for the offence under Section 376 I.P.C. is made out against the applicants, as there is no medical evidence, which supports the said offence, is also liable to be rejected on the ground that though applicant no.1 did not rape opposite party no.2 forcefully but he has established physical relations with her and lived as husband and wife on the promise to marry her but against her wishes, which amounts to rape on the principal of cheating and deception of fact. It is case of such heinous crime where the social ramification of such crimes are very dishonourable to the victim and she suffers social death. The offences of this nature which involves social defamation, there is always a general tendency to suppress such events at the initial stage in order to avoid the lady being stigmatized. The offence committed by the applicants is egregious in nature and it speaks about depravity of the applicants character, who had no moral qualms in violating modesty and honour of a lady due to which she suffers mental agony. 15.	The submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants that there is delay in lodging of the first information report for which no plausible explanation has been given which makes the prosecution case doubtful, is also liable to be rejected on the ground that as per the prosecution case, applicant has concealed from opposite party no.2 that he was already married and by concealing that fact he lived with her as husband and wife and he has established physical relation with her on the promise to marry her but against her wishes. As soon as she knew that the applicant no.1 was already married, she exerted pressure upon him to marry her after taking divorce with her wife and when he denied to marry her, she has made an application before the Police Station concerned for lodging of the first information report and when her application has not been considered, she immediately moved an application under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. 16.	The submission of the learned counsel for the applicants that the present criminal case initiated by opposite party no.2 against the applicants is a case of counter blast to the criminal case initiated by applicant no.1 against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues bearing Case Crime No. 981 of 2018 dated 26th September, 2018 under Sections 323 , 384 , 386 , 389 , 504 , 506 and 506 I.P.C. has only been made to be rejected by this Court on the ground that the first information report has been lodged by opposite party no.2 against the applicants on 17th September, 2018 at 1731 hours, whereas the application has been made by the applicants on 20th September, 2018 under Section 156 (3) Cr.P.C. for lodging of the first information report against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues, as a result whereof on the direction issued by the court below only on 26th September, 2018 first information report has been lodged against opposite party no.2 and her two colleagues. As a matter of fact, this plea has only been taken to build up a case of counter blast and nothing else. 17.	Now, this Court comes on the issue whether it is appropriate for this Court being the Highest Court to exercise its jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash the charge-sheet and the proceedings at the stage when the Magistrate has merely issued process against the applicants and trial is to yet to come only on the submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants that present criminal case initiated by opposite party no.2 are not only malicious but also abuse of process of law. The aforesaid issue has elaborately been discussed by the Apex Court in the following judgments: 18.	In the case of R.P. Kapur (Supra), the following has been observed by the Apex Court in paragraph 6: 19.	In the case of State of Haryana (Supra), the following has been observed by the Apex Court in paragraph 105: 20. In the case of State of Bihar (Supra), the following has been observed by the Apex Court in paragraph 22. :- 21. In the case of Zandu Pharmaceuticals Works Ltd. (Supra), the following has been observed by the Apex Court in paragraphs nos. 8 to 12: 10. In dealing with the last case, it is important to bear in mind the distinction between a case where there is no legal evidence or where there is evidence which is clearly inconsistent with the accusations made, and a case where there is legal evidence which, on appreciation, may or may not support the accusations. When exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code, the High Court would not ordinarily embark upon an enquiry whether the evidence in question is reliable or not or whether on a reasonable appreciation of it accusation would not be sustained. That is the function of the trial Judge. Judicial process should not be an instrument of oppression, or, needless harassment. Court should be circumspect and judicious in exercising discretion and should take all relevant facts and circumstances into consideration before issuing process, lest it would be an instrument in the hands of a private complainant to unleash vendetta to harass any person needlessly. At the same time the section is not an instrument handed over to an accused to short-circuit a prosecution and bring about its sudden death. 11. The scope of exercise of power under Section 482 of the Code and the categories of cases where the High Court may exercise its power under it relating to cognizable offences to prevent abuse of process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice were set out in some detail by this Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal (1992 Supp (1) 335). A note of caution was, however, added that the power should be exercised sparingly and that too in rarest of rare cases. The illustrative categories indicated by this Court are as follows: As noted above, the powers possessed by the High Court under Section 482 of the Code are very wide and the very plenitude of the power requires great caution in its exercise. Court must be careful to see that its decision in exercise of this power is based on sound principles. The inherent power should not be exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The High Court being the highest court of a State should normally refrain from giving a prima facie decision in a case where the entire facts are incomplete and hazy, more so when the evidence has not been collected and produced before the Court and the issues involved, whether factual or legal, are of magnitude and cannot be seen in their true perspective without sufficient material. Of course, no hard-and-fast rule can be laid down in regard to cases in which the High Court will exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction of quashing the proceeding at any stage. (See: Janata Dal v. H. S. Chowdhary (1992 (4) SCC 305), and Raghubir Saran (Dr.) v. State of Bihar (AIR 1964 SC 1). It would not be proper for the High Court to analyse the case of the complainant in the light of all probabilities in order to determine whether a conviction would be sustainable and on such premises arrive at a conclusion that the proceedings are to be quashed. It would be erroneous to assess the material before it and conclude that the complaint cannot be proceeded with. In a proceeding instituted on complaint, exercise of the inherent powers to quash the proceedings is called for only in a case where the complaint does not disclose any offence or is frivolous, vexatious or oppressive. If the allegations set out in the complaint do not constitute the offence of which cognizance has been taken by the Magistrate, it is open to the High Court to quash the same in exercise of the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code. It is not, however, necessary that there should be meticulous analysis of the case before the trial to find out whether the case would end in conviction or acquittal. The complaint has to be read as a whole. If it appears that on consideration of the allegations in the light of the statement made on oath of the complainant that the ingredients of the offence or offences are disclosed and there is no material to show that the complaint is mala fide, frivolous or vexatious, in that event there would be no justification for interference by the High Court. When an information is lodged at the police station and an offence is registered, then the mala fides of the informant would be of secondary importance. It is the material collected during the investigation and evidence led in court which decides the fate of the accused person. The allegations of mala fides against the informant are of no consequence and cannot by themselves be the basis for quashing the proceedings. (See: Dhanalakshmi v. R. Prasanna Kumar (1990 Supp SCC 686), State of Bihar v. P. P. Sharma ( AIR 1996 SC 309), Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh Gill ( 1995 (6) SCC 194), State of Kerala v. O. C. Kuttan ( AIR 1999 SC 1044), State of U.P. v. O. P. Sharma ( 1996 (7) SCC 705), Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar Bhada ( 1997 (2) SCC 397), Satvinder Kaur v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ) (AIR 1996 SC 2983) and Rajesh Bajaj v. State NCT of Delhi (1999 (3) SCC 259. 12. The above position was recently highlighted in State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa and Another (2002 (3) SCC 89)." (emphasis added) 22.	Thereafter, in the case of M.N. Ojha Vs. Alok Kumar Srivastava , reported in 2009 (9) SCC 682 has made observations in paragraphs 25, 27, 28, 29 and 30 regarding the exercise of power under section 482 Cr.P.C. as well as the principles governing the exercise of such jurisdiction:- 27. The case on hand is a classic illustration of non-application of mind by the learned Magistrate. The learned Magistrate did not scrutinize even the contents of the complaint, leave aside the material documents available on record. The learned Magistrate truly was a silent spectator at the time of recording of preliminary evidence before summoning the appellants. 28. The High Court committed a manifest error in disposing of the petition filed by the appellants under Section 482 of the Code without even adverting to the basic facts which were placed before it for its consideration. 29. It is true that the court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot go into the truth or otherwise of the allegations and appreciate the evidence if any available on record. Normally, the High Court would not intervene in the criminal proceedings at the preliminary stage/when the investigation/enquiry is pending. 30. Interference by the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure can only be where a clear case for such interference is made out. Frequent and uncalled for interference even at the preliminary stage by the High Court may result in causing obstruction in progress of the inquiry in a criminal case which may not be in the public interest. But at the same time the High Court cannot refuse to exercise its jurisdiction if the interest of justice so required where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no fair-minded and informed observer can ever reach a just and proper conclusion as to the existence of sufficient grounds for proceeding. In such cases refusal to exercise the jurisdiction may equally result in injustice more particularly in cases where the Complainant sets the criminal law in motion with a view to exert pressure and harass the persons arrayed as accused in the complaint." (emphasis added) 23. In the case of Md. Allauddin Khan (Supra), which has been relied upon by the learned A.G.A. for the State, the Apex Court has held that the High Court had no jurisdiction to appreciate the evidence in proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C. The relevant paragraph nos. 15 to 17 are being quoted herein below: (Emphasis added) 24.	The Apex Court in its another judgment in the case of Nallapareddy Sridhar Reddy Vs. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors. reported in 2020 0 Supreme (SC) 45, dealing with a case under Sections 406 and 420 I.P.C. has observed that the Court does not have to delve deep into probative value of evidence regarding the charge. It has only to see if a prima facie case has been made out. Veracity of deposition/material is a matter of trial and not required to be examined while framing charge. The Apex Court further observed that the veracity of the depositions made by the witnesses is a question of trial and need not be determined at the time of framing of charge. Appreciation of evidence on merit is to be done by the court only after the charges have been framed and the trial has commenced. However, for the purpose of framing of charge the court needs to prima facie determine that there exists sufficient material for the commencement of trial. The Apex Court in paragraph nos. 21, 22 and 24 has observed as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 
 

 
22 In the present case, the High Court while directing the framing the additional charges has evaluated the material and evidence brought on record after investigation and held: (Emphasis supplied) 
 
 24 The veracity of the depositions made by the witnesses is a question of trial and need not be determined at the time of framing of charge. Appreciation of evidence on merit is to be done by the court only after the charges have been framed and the trial has commenced. However, for the purpose of framing of charge the court needs to prima facie determine that there exists sufficient material for the commencement of trial. The High Court has relied upon the materials on record and concluded that the ingredients of the offences under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC are attracted. The High Court has spelt out the reasons that have necessitated the addition of the charge and hence, the impugned order does not warrant any interference." (Emphasis added) 25.	The Apex Court in its latest judgment in the case of Rajeev Kourav (Supra), which has been heavily relied upon by the learned A.G.A., has clearly held that the conclusion of the High Court to quash the criminal proceedings on the basis of its assessment of the statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. is not permissible as the evidence of the accused cannot be looked into before the stage of trial. The relevant portions whereof read as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 26.	In view of the aforesaid, this Court finds that the submissions made by the applicants' learned counsel call for adjudication on pure questions of fact which may adequately be adjudicated upon only by the trial court and while doing so even the submissions made on points of law can also be more appropriately gone into by the trial court in this case. This Court does not deem it proper, and therefore cannot be persuaded to have a pre-trial before the actual trial begins. A threadbare discussion of various facts and circumstances, as they emerge from the allegations made against the accused, is being purposely avoided by the Court for the reason, lest the same might cause any prejudice to either side during trial. But it shall suffice to observe that the perusal of the F.I.R. and the material collected by the Investigating Officer on the basis of which the charge sheet has been submitted makes out a prima facie case against the accused at this stage and there appear to be sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. I do not find any justification to quash the charge sheet or the proceedings against the applicants arising out of them as the case does not fall in any of the categories recognized by the Apex Court which may justify their quashing. All the judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the applicants referred to above are clearly distinguishable in the facts of the present case. 27.	The prayer for quashing the impugned charge-sheet as well as the entire proceedings of the aforesaid State case are refused, as I do not see any abuse of the court's process at this pre-trial stage. 28.	The present application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. is, accordingly, rejected. There shall be no order as to costs. 29.	Written submissions filed by the learned counsel for the applicants, learned counsel for opposite party no.2 and the learned A.G.A. for the State are taken on record. 30	Interim order, if any, stands discharged. (Manju Rani Chauhan, J.)
 
Order Date :- 01.12.2020
 
Sushil/-