SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I have an African friend, she is from Kenya, she and her friend were told to come to India to work, when they arrived they had their passports taken and now have been told they must prostitute themselves to pay their ‘debt’ before they give them their passports back
DATE: 2019-09-01
SCORE: 605
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cy0wwi/i_have_an_african_friend_she_is_from_kenya_she/

--- POST TEXT ---

I just want to know how I can help her.

She and her friends are locked in during the way and allowed out at night to find customers and must bring money back by the following morning.

So I feel she has a good chance to get out of this situation but any advice will help.

She has had her phone taken off her already but can WhatsApp on her laptop.

Her friend still has a phone.

I am thinking to suggest she takes an Uber the next time a ‘customer’ has taken her to his house when she will he away from the ‘madam’ boss who keeps an eye on them when they are on the street waiting for ‘customers’

But I don’t know how India works I am from Europe.

She said the police require you to carry your passport at all times and is scared.

The police have already beaten her because they suspected she was working as a prostitute on the street this is why they took her phone off her.

I am wandering if she can get to a Kenyan Embassy in Delhi can they help her?

*edit, due to all the people suspecting this to be a scam - she is a friend I have met in real life, she is not asking me for any money and has never asked me in the past, she did not contact me I contacted her because she put my email as her Google recovery email so I got an email saying she was trying to access her account in India due to her phone being stolen and when I emailed her asking if she was in India we started talking. She is using her Kenyan friend's WhatsApp on a laptop I gave her last time I saw her, she is in this situation with a Kenyan friend, but now they both want to go back home, they thought they were arriving their to work, in a normal job.