1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned AGA and perused the material available on record. 2. The present Anticipatory Bail Application has been filed with the prayer to grant anticipatory bail to the applicant - Shyam Sharma in Case Crime No. 54 of 2024, under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 I.P.C. and Section 6 / 10 U.P. Sarvajanik Pareeksha Adhinium, Police Station - Gandhi Park, District - Aligarh. 3. It is submitted by learned counsel for the applicant that the First Information Report was lodged on 18.2.2024 with the allegation that public examination was being held in respect of Constable in the year 2023 where a person Omveer Sharma was caught participating in the examination against the admit card of the applicant. It is submitted that biometric, admit card and photograph did not match with the aforesaid co-accused Omveer Sharma. The aforesaid person was sitting in the examination against the roll number of applicant. It is submitted that in view of the law laid down by the Apex Court in State of Haryana Vs. Bhajan Lal , 1992 SCC (Cri) 426, no offence against applicant can be said to be made out. It is further submitted that whatever recovery has been made, has been made from co-accused Omveer Sharma and there is no participation of applicant in the aforesaid crime. It is submitted that applicant has no previous criminal history. If the applicant is enlarged on anticipatory bail, he will not misuse the liberty and cooperate with the investigation. The applicant has apprehension of his arrest by the police any time. 4. Learned AGA has opposed the anticipatory bail application and submits that applicant is the person against whose roll number co-accused Omveer Sharma was participating in the examination. In the public examination, the aforesaid fraud has been committed. 5. It is to be seen that in the present case, applicant was the original participant in the public examination of Constable in U.P. Police but another person being Omveer Sharma was participating in the examination in place of applicant, who was caught on the spot. The original admit card, photograph did not match with the applicant nor biometric of the applicant match with the Omveer Sharma and on the aforesaid basis, Omveer Sharma was made accused and thereafter the name of applicant has surfaced. Applicant did not participate in the examination. 6. It is further to be seen that fairness of public examination is being violated by another person participating in the examination on behalf of applicant. Such action dilutes the fairness of public examination. The admit card which was found with co-accused has not been explained as to how another person was having the admit card of applicant. The investigation in the present case is going on. 7. Applicant is the beneficiary of the act of co-accused Omveer Sharma, who has participated in the public examination on behalf of applicant. No explanation has been given by the applicant that as to how co-accused Omveer Sharma has participated in the examination on his behalf. 8. This Court is of the opinion that in case applicant is granted anticipatory bail, applicant will destroy the evidence and will try to influence the investigation although the co-accused Omveer Sharma has been granted bail. This is not the case of applicant that applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. The anticipatory bail application is liable to be rejected. 9. Accordingly, the present anticipatory bail application is rejected. Order Date :- 5.8.2024
 
D. Tamang