This special newsletter went out to MediaNama subscribers on March 20, 2024.

Welcome to this month’s edition of our Talking Points newsletter, where we bring you a curated list of things to think about in tech policy: something that you can bring up to spark a discussion or debate.

Why TRAI’s suggestion to use Caller Line Identification Restriction (CLIR) doesn’t work [Kamya Pandey]

In February, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) recommended that caller names should be displayed whenever one telecom user calls another. This service raises a lot of potential privacy concerns, which were raised when the regulator conducted a consultation on the service in 2022. Despite the concerns, TRAI decided to go ahead with recommending the service stating that the Department of Telecommunications already has a Caller Line Identification Restriction (CLIR) service that enables normal subscribers, officers of Central Intelligence Agencies and dignitaries to withhold their identities. While CLIR may hide the names of those who have registered for the service, those who have not or are unaware of the service would end up having their names accessible to anyone whom they might accidentally call. In such a case, could it really be considered an effective way for people to keep their identity private?

Should AI companies be held accountable for deep fakes? [ Kamya Pandey]

On February 15, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) proposed a rule prohibiting individuals’ impersonation. The FTC also requested comments on whether the revised rule should make it unlawful for an AI platform that creates images, video, or text, to provide services that they know or have reason to know are being used to harm consumers through impersonation. With the recent AI advisory for India’s IT Ministry, it appears that India has taken a similar approach when it comes to platform liability. In the Indian context, the advisory has urged that AI models should label deep fakes or embed them with a permanent unique metadata or identifier. However, some have expressed concern that labels can be removed and that digital fingerprints for deep fake content can be fake. Given how readily the current measures to ensure deep fake transparency can be bypassed, AI image-generation companies might have to put in efforts to ensure that their tools cannot be used to generate a real person’s image to comply with both the proposed rule and India’s AI advisory.

Why Rapido Is Moving To Subscription Model [Sarvesh Mathi]

Rapido last month moved to a new subscription model for auto drivers on its app, allowing them to pay a fixed fee per day for unlimited rides rather than a certain percentage of each ride as commission. This is similar to Namma Yatri, another ride-hailing app. These two apps point at an interesting trend. The existing commission-based model, which companies like Uber and Ola have used for a long time and still stick to, has received criticism from drivers for various reasons. If you talk to any auto or cab driver booked through these apps, they would complain that the app is taking a good chunk of their money. The exact percentage of commission varies from driver to driver, and the driver only sees the amount they will receive, not the amount paid by the customer. This lack of transparency usually frustrates the drivers, and some even think they are being cheated by the company.

To appease drivers, some apps like inDrive and Uber are experimenting with flexible pricing, where customers can choose to pay a higher price for a better chance of acceptance, but this still doesn’t address the transparency problem, only that drivers are more likely to accept seeing a higher amount. The subscription model appears to be another attempt to address driver concerns. For what it’s worth, there is a lot more transparency with subscriptions because the driver knows their cost upfront and knows that they are receiving the entire amount the customer is paying. They can quite easily verify this by asking the rider what the app showed and tallying it with what they receive from the app. If the economics of this work out for the ride-hailing app, it should be a win-win situation for aggregators, drivers, and users.

“What Is Not Written In Regulations Is A No-Go For Fintech Entities”: Why I disagree with this statement by the NPCI CEO [Sarvesh Mathi]

Recently, NPCI CEO Dilip Asbe commented that fintechs should not embark on something that is not written in regulations. “What is not written in the regulation, the answer is no. […] There is no grey area [in regulations],” Asbe remarked. These statements are problematic for more reasons than one. Firstly, this is equivalent to saying no to innovation. Innovative products and services always emerge in grey areas and regulations generally follow them if the regulators deem it necessary. Saying “no” even before the idea materialises discourages innovation. Second, the RBI has itself admitted that it doesn’t yet know how to regulate fintech. Given this, there is a lack of clear regulations for fintech. Third, RBI frequently issues clarifications and FAQs for its directions because there are grey areas. And lastly, without innovation, NPCI’s dominance of the payments sector will continue.

Uber wants a share of the ONDC pie but doesn’t want to contribute to it [Sarvesh Mathi]

Uber last month announced that it signed an MoU with ONDC to explore integration with the network. At first glance, this seems like a big deal. Uber is a major ride-hailing app and ONDC users could greatly benefit from this integration. But if you look more closely at the announcement, you will see that Uber merely wants to show its own users more transport options from ONDC such as metro and bus services. There is no indication that Uber will allow its ride-hailing service to be shown on other ONDC apps or that it will show the options offered by other ONDC-based competitors like Namma Yatri on its own app. In an ideal ONDC scenario, a user should be able to open any buyer app, see rides from all ride-hailing services and choose between them based on price, reviews, etc. But this ideal scenario appears to be far away as two of the most popular ride-hailing apps, Uber and Ola, haven’t yet made their rides available on ONDC.

Too late, too little [Sarasvati T]

On the Supreme Court’s directions, the Indian government has agreed to publish the Review Committee orders assessing internet shutdowns in Jammu & Kashmir as public information. Here’s the catch: these orders would be published without crucial details such as the reasons for such shutdowns. It’s worth questioning what purpose will the Review Committee orders serve if they lack details regarding the deliberation between the members assessing the constitutionality of prolonged internet bans imposed as a precautionary measure in several states. Notably, it has been reported in the past that Review Committees have been slacking in effectively reviewing internet ban orders. Amidst such uncertainties, it is unlikely that making Review Committee orders public will prove to be a solid move in challenging arbitrary internet shutdowns in Court of law, as such disproportionate actions continue to infringe upon people’s freedom of speech, expression and other fundamental rights.

How is moral policing a solution for fighting cyber crimes? [Sarasvati T]

While speaking at the Mumbai Tech Event in February, the Mumbai Police Commissioner Vivek Phansalkar took a chance to school the young audiences on the “basic principle” of human interactions, which according to him was to avoid interaction with strangers. In view of increasing online crimes such as financial frauds, sextortion, identity theft, cheating, etc, the Commissioner opined that by communicating with strangers online, people make themselves vulnerable to cyber crimes. If one were to not talk with unknown people online, how will social media, dating apps, and even professional communication sites like LinkedIn operate? People use these spaces as opportunities to expand their personal and professional circles, an integral aspect of their emotional and financial well-being. Secondly, at a time when the modus operandi of cyber criminals has evolved to make it tougher for people to accurately differentiate between the known and unknown, it’s time for the police to let go of constricted perspectives that only demoralise the victim from reporting such crimes. While there’s no one way to address harms, discussing and developing methods that do not infringe upon people’s rights to free speech and expression and also offer better protection to individuals can prove to be more useful.

X Corp needs to consider creator consent in its advertising model [Vallari Sanzgiri]

On February 12, 2024 X Corp, formerly Twitter, said it will allow advertisers to run ads against a curated list of “premium content creators” via a new feature called ‘ Creator Targeting .’ The feature gives advertisers more control over the “self-serve X Ads Manager” to run ads against the content of selected creators. But what about creators? The blog post does not clarify whether creators have a say on the kind of ads appearing alongside their content. So coupling this announcement with the August 2023 news of the freedom to put up political advertising on X Corp in the US, this decision has the potential to put content creators in awkward situations. A Republican or Democratic party may target specific creators and run ads next to their content. Then, can the creator refuse or prevent an unwanted ad being played beside their work? Will creators have the option to opt-out of the ads displayed alongside their content? As mentioned before, X plans to provide advertisers with these abilities. So, what happens to creator consent then?

How effective will KYC be if deep fake technology is used to create fake IDs?  [Vallari Sanzgiri]

In Early February, we came across a news piece that said OnlyFake , an underground website,  is allegedly using ‘neural networks’ – a subset of machine learning technology that is important in the context of deep learning algorithms – to generate fake IDs. The news was intriguing, to say the least, because it seemed to have been inspired directly by a comment during our Deep Fakes and Democracy event, about deepfakes challenging video KYC in a big way. KYC is an important security measure for banking and other financial activities online. However, the above-mentioned incident and other instances where people use deep fakes to attend interviews on Zoom calls highlight the need to discuss the impact of deepfake and AI in the verification process. India is a country that loves the notion of biometric authentication. However, considering the remarkable progress that technology has made recently, will the push for KYC by the government really reap the benefits that it anticipates?

Regards, Team MediaNama

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event