Date : 19.12.2025 1. Heard Ms. A. Saikia, the learned counsel for the applicants. Also
 heard Mr. D. Mazumdar, the learned senior counsel assisted
 by Mr. B. J. Mukherjee, the learned counsel for the
 respondent. 2. This Interlocutory Application has been filed by the
 applicants/appellants in connection with the RSA No. 236/2024
 under Order 6 Rule 17 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 praying
 for amendment of Memorandum of Appeal in the RSA No. 236/2024. 3. The present applicants have filed the connected RSA No. 236/2024
 Page No.# 4/24

 herein they have impugned the judgment and decree dated
 07.09.2024 passed in Title Appeal No. 17/2016 by the Court of
 learned Civil Judge (Senior Division), Bongaigaon whereby the
 judgment and decree dated 31.08.2016 passed in Title Suit No.
 30/1998 was upheld by the First Appellate Court. 4. In the Memo of Appeal of the RSA No. 236/2024, the appellants have
 proposed the following substantial questions of law - (i) Whether the findings of both the learned
 trial as well as the first appellate courts are perverse in
 holding that the plaintiff No.2 has right, title and interest
 over schedule "C" Land by virtue of the sale deed No.
 1214/1998 and 1215/1998, without there being any
 pleading in the plaint that the plaintiff No. 1 has sold the
 Schedule "C" Land to the plaintiff No.2 by the said sale
 deed. (ii) Whether the findings of both the learned
 trial as well as the first appellate court below are
 perverse in holding that the Exhibit No.2 Gift Deed has
 been duly proved in accordance with law without there
 being any materials on record of its due execution and
 acceptance by the donee as per Section 122 of the
 Transfer of the Property Act, 1882. 5. The learned counsels for both sides were heard on the question as to
 whether any substantial question of law is involved in the connected
 RSA or not. However, before passing of any orders by this Court on
 Page No.# 5/24

 the existence or otherwise of any substantial question of law in the
 connected RSA, the present applicants had engaged Ms. A. Saikia as
 their counsel. The applicants, thereafter, had filed another
 Interlocutory Application under Order 41 Rule 27 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908 before the delivery of orders in RSA No. 236/2024
 in respect of substantial question of law involved in the connected
 RSA. On the basis of the said application, I.A.(C) No. 1949/2025 was
 registered and the delivery of orders in RSA No. 236/2024 was
 deferred. 6. Thereafter, by filing the instant Interlocutory Application under Order
 6 Rule 17 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, the applicants have
 prayed for amendment of the Memo of Appeal by incorporating the
 facts stated in the Paragraph No. 3 to 28 of the Interlocutory
 Application No. 1949/2025. 7. The learned counsel for the applicants has submitted that the decree
 in the Title Suit No. 30/1998 as well as that of the Title Appeal No.
 17/2016 were obtained by the respondent by practicing fraud upon
 the said courts. 8. It is pertinent to mention herein that since the connected RSA
 No.236/2024 has not yet been admitted and the respondents have
 appeared in the said RSA on their own as caveators, the
 Interlocutory Application No. 1949/2025 has not yet been decided
 and the same is still pending before this Court. 9. The learned counsel for the applicants has submitted that the suit
 filed by respondents is barred under Section 9 of the Code of Civil
 Page No.# 6/24

 Procedure, 1908 read with Regulation 154 of the Assam Land and
 Revenue Regulation, 1886. 10. The learned counsel for the applicants has submitted that the
 procedure adopted by the trial court during the trial is also perverse
 in the way that the present respondents were allowed to amend
 their plaint on two occasions without describing the reasons for the
 said amendments. 11. The learned counsel for the applicants has further submitted that the
 trial court also failed to consider that the signatures of the proforma
 defendant Shri. Jitendra Narayan Banikya in the gift deed as well as
 in the affidavit were fake signatures. 12. The learned counsel for the applicants has further submitted that
 during pendency of the RSA, a certificate has been issued by the
 Chairman, Abhayapuri Municipal Board on 15.07.2025 stating that
 the appellant No.1 and her family members have been residing in
 the Holding No. 149/3 of Ward No. 11, Batabari since 1985. She
 therefore, submits that the said facts are required to be brought on
 record by amending the Memo of Appeal. She further submits that
 the decree in the Title Suit No. 30/1998 and the Title Appeal No.
 17/2016 were obtained by practicing fraud upon the court. 13. The learned counsel for the applicants has submitted that the
 following grounds as well as substantial questions of law are
 required to be incorporated in the Memo of Appeal by way of
 amendment for the ends of justice: v. For that suppression of facts such as the Petition No. 1
is the Rayoti Khatiyan since 1983 and this is in the knowledge
of the Defendants. For suppression of facts that the mutation
 Page No.# 10/24

of Gita Banikya was cancelled due to lacking Katiyan rights of
her employer Jitendra Narayan Banikya over the 7B 3K land,
suit land which was always vested upon the Appellant No. 1
and she has exhibited documentary evidence to this effect,
which is Ext. No. G. Both the Trial court as well as Appellate
Court ignored this vital documentary evidence, which was
enough to prove as per land records, the Defendant/Plaintiff
did not have any right, title or interest in the disputed land.
vi. For that suppression of fact and concealment of
document that Aruna Bala Ray was the wife of Jitandra
Narayan Banikya at the time of execution of the fraudulent gift
deed committed by the plaintiff/defendants. Even in the
written statement filed with the Gauhati High Court in the RSA
236/2024 the suppression of these facts is eminent. The gift
deed numbers are mentioned incorrectly paragraph 2 where it
is written as 351 but it is found to be 33/97. Suppression of
the fact that Jitendra Narayan Banikya was never in possession
of the scheduled land, only his sister Appellant No. 1 was in
possession of the land and cultivated it herself and with hired
workers. She had built the house she is living in with financial
help from her husband. But these facts were suppressed and
the court failed to bring out the entire truth in the
proceedings. Therefore, the impugned judgements are to be
set aside on the grounds of fraud among the other grounds
listed out in the interest of justice and to correct the wrong
done. Page No.# 11/24

vii. For that the Title Suit No. 30/1998 was instituted and
adjudicated without presence or consent of Jitendra Narayan
Banikya. Even in the written statement, suppression of all the
facts can be seen, such as the Deed of declaration
(agreement) No. 4 dated 19.01.1998 was never cancelled and
this was the last document executed by the elder brother of
Petitioner No.1 before his passing away. That elder brother
Late Sri Jitendra Narayan Banikya in favour of Niva Banikya
was the last executed document by him with his full signature.
He never appeared in court to dispute the Power of attorney
No. 48 dated 12.01.1998 as well as the Declaration of deed.
And the defendants tactfully suppressed these facts. He never
appeared in the court as Performa Defendant. For in all the
fraudulently prepared documents the name of Jitendra
Narayan Banikya appears as Jiten Banikya, reflecting the
coercion and fraud played by the caretaker Gita Banikya and
the Land broker Phukan Adhikary. Therefore, the impugned
judgements are to be set aside on the grounds of fraud among
the other grounds listed out in the interest of justice and to
correct the wrong done. viii. For that Decree in TS 30/98 and judgement in
17/2026 is obtained by fraud and collusion of the Defendants
and the counsel of the petition Abdus Samad. He did not file
the various land documents of his client the defense side to
protect the right, title, interest of the Defendant/13518
appellant, who were in possession of their ancestral land and
 Page No.# 12/24

had all the rights, title, interest and claim over it, while he let
the case drag over 18 years in the Munsiff court at Abhayapuri,
and about 8 years in the Appellant court in Bongaigaon district
he neglected to get the fake gift deed cancelled. Particularly
the paragraph 32 of the impugned judgement of trial court
makes the collusion quite apparent. Therefore, the impugned
judgements are to be set aside on the grounds of fraud among
the other grounds listed out in the interest of justice and to
correct the wrong done. ix. For that Abdus Samad (Appellant's previous counsel)
had all the land documents in his files and in his possession,
but he did not file them in both courts, misleading the clients
all the while. The land documents were found on the files
returned by him, upon checking on 25th March 2025. For
Abdus Samad did not file a counter claim and written
statement for 2 amendment petitions filed by the Plaintiff/
Defendant (Gita) and did not raise objections for the grounds
taken for impleadment of Phukan Adhikary and Rumi Banik
respectively in the two amendments. Where provision of Lis
pendens would be invoked to block any further complications
in the disputed land. As reflected in the order-sheet of the Trial
Case No. 30/1998, the amendments were not objected to and
no written statement was filed on behalf of the Appellants due
to the collusion between the Opposite Party and counsel of the
Appellants. That all the criminal
indictments/allegations/averments made against the
 Page No.# 13/24

 defendants in IA 1949/2025 are not contested and refuted,
 hence it may be deemed proven. Therefore, the impugned
 judgements are to be set aside on the grounds of fraud among
 the other grounds listed out in the interest of justice and to
 correct the wrong done. x. For that the plaintiff/defendant No. 2 was unlawfully
 included in the subsequent amendments and his sale deeds
 1214 and 1215 duly exhibited as Exhibit No. 30 and 31 have
 no legal bearing/status since the seller itself did not have title,
 rights or interest to pass on to any other person. Here the
 question of law of using criminal means to obtain civil rights
 comes in play. SUBSTANTIAL QUESTIONS OF LAW: Whether jurisdictional errors committed by the Trial court as
 Page No.# 14/24

well as Appeals court is apparent on the face of record ?
Whether the courts were competent to try the matter due to section 9 of CPC? b) Whether the highest doctrine of Actus curiae neminem
gravabit, which translates to "an act of the court shall
prejudice no man". This principle holds that a party should not
suffer because of a mistake, error, or delay on the part of the
court should be applied on the face of such per-incuriam? c) Whether the section 38 of BSA applies in the
judgement and decrees in TS 30/98 and in T.A. 17/2026 as
they were obtained by fraud, concealment and collusion of the
Defendants and the counsel of the petition Abdus Samad.
Abdus Samad did not file the various land documents of his
client i.e. thereby concealing them from the defense side and
failed/neglected to protect the rights of the
Defendant/appellant who were in possession of their ancestral
land and had all the rights, title, interest and claim over it,
while he let the case drag over 18 years in the Munsif court at
Abhayapuri, and about 9 years in the Appellant court in
Bongaigaon district. Whether the courts had taken into
account the documents as described under section 3 , 4 and 5 of BSA when adjudicating the matter in respect of possession
documents? Whether this possession can be declared illegal by
a court not competent to decide? d) Whether the substantial questions of law regarding
cause of action and maintainability of the Title Suit 30/98
 Page No.# 15/24

Dated: 24.07.1998, was covered up by fraud. It was instituted
based upon a fake document i.e. the gift deed no. 33
(opposite side have mentioned as 351) dated 20.02.1997. The
gift deed cannot be valid since the doner (Jitendra Narayan
Banikya) of the gift deed did not have the right, title or claim
to the D/L property to make a gift under section 122 and 123
of the transfer of property act 1882, since no deliver of
possession could be proved? Hence, can the Hon'ble court
cancel the invalid instrument and declare it null and void?
Whether it can be considered under section 51- Facts judicially
noticeable need not be proved, of the BSA? And Section 38 of
the BSA? e) Whether there is a cause of action by the present
defendants (Rumi Banik and Phukan Adhikary) valid? Who
cannot claim the D/L based upon the unproven rights of the
doner. Who never had any right, title and interest can be made
accountable for the fraud the committed upon the courts by
way of submitting fraudulent documents, suppressing facts
and impersonating under the ambit of burden of proof in section 104- Burden of proof, 105-On whom burden of proof
lies, 106 Burden of proof as to particular fact and 107 Burden
of proving fact to be proved to make evidence admissible? f) Whether a fraud upon the court was committed by the
original petitioner Gita Dey by impersonating as Gita Banikya,
who prepared most of the documents after her employer's
death? Whether fraudulent use of fake identification of the
 Page No.# 16/24

original petitioner Gita Dey and her daughter Rumi Dey @
Rumi Banik such as a next of kin certificate, Pan card, voter
card, Aadhar card to establish false identity as Jitendra
Narayan Banikya's wife and daughter (Whereas Gita was the
wife of Lt Rabindra Dey and Rumi was the daughter of
Rabindra) to obtain the decrees is a fraud upon the court
should get court's notice under section 51 Facts judicially
noticeable need not be proved, of the BSA? And Section 38 of
the BSA? And under the ambit of section 100 of CPC to reverse
all the unlawful judgments/decrees passed. And to take
cognizance of such wrongdoing and give exemplary damage
cost upon such defendants. g) Whether suppression of facts such as the Petition No. 1
is the Katiyan Rayati since 1983 and this is in the knowledge of
the Defendants, that her name is included in the Citha dated: Page No.# 17/24 h) Whether suppression of facts that the mutation of Gita
Banikya was cancelled due to lacking Katiyan rights of her
employer Jitendra Narayan Banikya over the land property of
his sister the Appellant No. 1. And suppression of fact that
Aruna Bala Ray was the wife of Jitandra Narayan Banikya in
1997 at the time of execution of the fraudulent gift deed was
committed by the plaintiff/defendants? Claiming her to be
second wife whereas law recognized her as the only wife in
maintenance Misc case no. 60/1997 and solved on dated
23.06.1998. Therefore, Geeta @ Gita cannot be his wife.
Whether these findings can be considered under section 51- Facts judicially noticeable need not be proved, of the BSA? And Section 38 of the BSA? And under the ambit of section 100 of
CPC to reverse all the unlawful judgements passed. And to
take cognizance of such wrongdoing and give exemplary
damage cost upon such defendants. i) Whether misrepresentation of facts that Jitendra
Narayan Banikya was in possession of the land of 7B 3K,
thereby defendant No. 2 are entitled to claim any relief given
that fact that Jitendra Naryana Banikya was never in
possession of the land and never built the house, and the
defendants have made a false case to grab the land property
and house built and lived in by the Petitioners comes under
the ambit of section 100 of the CPC and setting aside of the
judgements duly obtained by fraud and delivered by courts not
competent to try is for greater good of the society? And under
 Page No.# 18/24

 the ambit of section 100 of CPC to reverse all the unlawful
 judgements passed. And to take cognizance of such
 wrongdoing and give exemplary damage cost upon
 such defendants. j) Whether the fraud and coercion was apparent in the
 documents wherein all the fraudulently prepared documents
 the name of Jitendra Narayan Banikya appears as Jiten
 Banikya, reflecting the coercion and fraud played by the
 caretaker Gita Banikya and the Land broker Phukan Adhikary
 amount to a fraud upon the court and should be considered
 under section 51 Facts judicially noticeable need not be
 proved, of the BSA? And Section 38 of the BSA? And under the
 ambit of section 100 of CPC to reverse all the unlawful.
 judgements passed. The question of law of using criminal
 means to obtain civil rights comes is to be answered in this
 case. And to take cognizance of such wrongdoing and give
 exemplary damage cost, particularly upon Plaintiff/defendants
 No. 2. 14. The learned counsel for the applicant/appellant has submitted
 that the aforementioned amendments are prayed for by the
 applicants/appellants as the same are necessary for showing that
 fraud has been played upon the Court by the respondent while
 obtaining the judgment and decree in their favour in Title Suit No.
 30/1988 as well as Title Suit No. 17/2016. 15. She submits that it is a settled proposition of law that when a
 judgment or decree obtained by fraud, it is nullity and non est in the
 Page No.# 19/24

 eye of law and it can be challenged in any proceeding in any Court
 even in collateral proceedings. 16. In support of her submission the learned counsel for the
 applicants has cited the following rulings: 17. On the other hand, Mr. D. Mazumdar, the learned senior counsel
 for the respondents has opposed the prayer for amendment of the
 memo of appeal by the appellants on the ground that the same is
 only an attempt by the applicants/appellants to prevent the
 respondents to enjoy the benefit of decree granted by the Trial Court
 as well as the First Appellate Court in their favour after a protracted
 Page No.# 20/24

 litigation. 18. He submits that the amendment petition has been filed by the
 applicant after this court had heard both sides in the connected RSA
 No. 236/2024 on the question as to whether any substantial
 question of law is involved. He submits that since the learned
 counsel for the respondents has given verbal undertaking before the
 court that before passing of the order regarding existence or
 otherwise of any substantial question of law in the connected RSA
 the respondents/decree holder would not pray for execution of the
 decree, hence, any attempt to protract the litigation on flimsy
 ground would cause prejudice to the respondents. 19. The learned senior counsel for the respondents submits that a
 regular second appeal can only be heard on the substantial question
 of law involved in the case, however, he submits that by the
 proposed amendment the applicant has prayed for incorporating
 disputed question of facts which were never raise before the trial
 court or before the First Appellate Court. 20. He submits that the allegation of fraud has been made by the
 applicants even against the engaged counsel of the applicant before
 the trial court and the First Appellate Court, namely, Mr. Abdus
 Samad, who is not a party in the present proceedings. Further, no
 allegations against the said counsel were ever made by appellants
 before the Trial Court or before the First Appellate Court as such
 there is no pleading or any evidence to that effect on the record.
 Hence, he submits that this court cannot determine the said
 questions of facts in the connected RSA. Page No.# 21/24 21. He further submits that the bar of Section 154 (1) of the Assam
 Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886 is not an absolute bar and civil
 court are not precluded from exercising its jurisdiction under Section
 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, where a relief of declaration
 of the title is prayed for. In support of his submission, the learned
 senior counsel for the respondent has cited following rulings: Under Section 100 (5) , it is provided that a second appeal shall be
 heard on the substantial question of law formulated by it. Further,
 under Section 103 of the said code, though, the High Court has
 power to determine the issue of facts also, however, for that the
 evidence on record must be sufficient to determine such issue of
 fact. 26. In the instant Interlocutory Application, the applicants/appellants
 have made several serious allegations like connivance and collusion
 between the engaged counsel of the applicants in the Trial Court as
 well as the First Appellate Court and the respondents. The
 allegations regarding suppression of material facts and forging of gift
 deeds and other documents are also made. It is also alleged that the
 Page No.# 23/24

 original petitioner Gita Dey impersonated as Gita Banikya by using
 fake identification document. Further, allegations are also made
 against counsel of the applicants, namely, Abdus Samad of
 committing fraud in collusion with the respondents. These
 allegations are levelled for the first time in the Interlocutory
 Applications filed by the present applicants and are in the realm of
 allegations only. In the records of the Trial Court as well as of the
 First Appellate Court, no whisper about the aforementioned
 allegations has been made. Neither there is any evidence to that
 effect on record. A bare perusal of the averments sought to be
 incorporated by the applicant in the memo of appeal, by way of
 proposed amendment, as indicated in paragraph No. 13 of this order
 hereinbefore, it appears that scathing allegations have been made
 against the respondents and the earlier engaged counsel for the
 applicants, namely, Abdus Samad for the first time. It is pertinent to
 mention herein that Mr. Abdus Samad is not before this Court to
 defend the accusations made against him. If the said amendments
 are allowed, the memo of appeal would appear like a plaint in a suit
 for nullity of decree on the basis of allegations of fraud and the
 proceeding in the second appeal would traverse beyond the
 provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, governing the
 procedure in respect of a Regular Second Appeal as contained in Section 100 to Section 103 of the said code. 27. Though, this Court is of the considered opinion that the applicants
 may file a fresh suit for nullity of the impugned decree passed by the
 First Appellate Court as well as by the Trial Court on the basis of
 Page No.# 24/24

 allegations of fraud made by them in the instant Interlocutory
 Application, however, as the proposed amendments involves
 disputed questions of facts raised for the first time and no evidence
 to that effect is there on record, same cannot be allowed to be
 incorporated by way of amendment in the memo of appeal of the
 connected Regular Second Appeal. 28. In light of discussions made in the foregoing paragraphs and
 reasons stated therein, the prayer for amendment of memo of
 appeal made by the applicants is rejected and this Interlocutor
 Application is dismissed. JUDGE

Comparing Assistant