India’s telecom regulator, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), has directed telcos to block all unverified headers and message templates within 30 and 60 days respectively, according to a press release .

The regulator observed that telemarketers were ‘misusing’ headers and message templates of registered parties and asked telcos to reverify all registered headers & message templates on the DLT (Distributed Ledger Technology) platform.

All telecom service providers (TSP) have to comply with these directions, issued under the Telecom Commercial Communication Customer Preference Regulations, 2018 , within a month, TRAI said in its release.

The directions were issued after TRAI held a meeting with telcos on February 17, 2023, to discuss quality of service (QoS) improvements, review of QoS standards, QoS of 5G services and unsolicited commercial communications”, as per its press release .

Why it matters: It may prove to be a useful measure as it can ensure that all promotional messages are sent through registered telemarketers using only approved templates. It is no secret that the problem of spam has been difficult to rein in, so the measure can restrict its proliferation and filter out telemarketers resorting to misuse.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Details about TRAI’s orders: The release said that telcos have to ensure that temporary headers are deactivated immediately after the time duration for which such headers were created.

“Entities involved in message transmission should be clearly identifiable and tracked, if required,” the regulator added.

Measures to check unregistered telemarketers: The release ordered telcos to bar all telemarketers who are not registered on its DLT platform from accessing message templates, and scrubbing it to deliver spam messages to recipients on the network of telcos.

How big is the problem of spam: A survey conducted by LocalCircles said that two out of every three people (66 per cent) in India get three or more spam calls on a daily basis. It added that there was not a single person among thousands of respondents who checked the box of ‘no spam’.

Addressing the problem of spam: The regulatory body released a consultation paper recently in which it proposed the idea of providing the real name identity of callers to people receiving calls. The paper said that it will use a database which contains correct names of each subscriber to implement the caller name presentation (CNAP) service. The regulator is looking to use details acquired by telecom service providers via customer acquisition forms (CAF).

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event