Update, May 12, 2:00 PM:

The Wire’s website is now accessible. The publication said that it had reached out to MeitY and MIB seeking an explanation for the website takedown and found that the government based its blocking request on a story The Wire had carried about Pakistan allegedly taking down a Rafale Jet, which CNN had previously carried. The MIB explained that it had given blocking orders for the entire site because of a technical limitation that, in the case of HTTPS websites, telcos can only block the entire site and not sub-pages.

The Ministry told The Wire to take down the story and inform it, once it does so the government will restore access to the site. The company has since had the opportunity to present before an Inter-Departmental Committee constituted under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. While the specifics of the hearing are unclear, The Wire notes that while the government took its site down, all other international sites that covered the CNN report are still accessible in India.

The Editors Guild of India and DigiPub have released statements regarding the government’s decision to block The Wire. “A free media is the best antidote to misinformation and fake news,” DigiPub notes, calling the government’s move a blatant attack on press freedom.

Original post:

The website of the independent news publication ‘The Wire’ is no longer accessible across multiple internet service providers in India. In a statement about the website takedown, the publication says that it protests this “blatant censorship” at a critical time and says that it is taking all the steps necessary to challenge this “arbitrary and inexplicable move.” The publication mentions that some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) say that they blocked the site based on an order from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), while others state that it was on orders of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB).

Dear Readers of The Wire In a clear violation of the Constitutional guarantee of freedom of the press, the Government of India has blocked access to https://t.co/mEOYg6zJMu across India. + pic.twitter.com/K1jRk3Vxpy

MediaNama has independently confirmed that The Wire’s site’s accessibility varies across ISPs and locations. For instance, in the national capital region, the site is not accessible on Airtel, Reliance Jio, or ACT. However, only ACT users see the actual notice that the site is inaccessible because of a MeitY order. For others like Airtel and Jio, the ISP just tells users that the site cannot be reached. In other regions, like Goa or Hyderabad, the site is accessible on Airtel and Jio as well. (visible below) As of writing this story, The Wire’s social media accounts ( X , YouTube, Facebook and Instagram ) are still accessible. The publication’s Hindi site is also still accessible.

On ACT ISP in Delhi

Airtel in Delhi NCR

The IT Ministry’s action against The Wire comes in the context of a long line of takedowns that the government has ordered since the terrorist attack against Indian tourists who visited the Pahalgam region of Jammu and Kashmir in April this year. While the Wire is the only publication whose site the government has blocked for access in India, other news publications have also been affected by blocking requests on their social media handles. This includes X accounts of independent news organisations Maktoob Media , The Kashmiriyat and Free Press Kashmir .

Journalist Sanjay Sharma’s YouTube channel 4PM News is also no longer accessible in India because of national security/public order reasons. Sharma has filed a case challenging the government’s takedown in the Supreme Court. His case also challenges the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards For Blocking For Access Of Information By Public) Rules, 2009 . Besides Indian publications, according to a post by X’s Global Government Affairs team, the government has sent takedown requests for over 8000 accounts, including those of international news organisations.

Based on The Wire’s statements, it is unclear what specific piece of content led the government to decide to take down the publication’s entire site. This is similar to 4PM News, which, as Sharma mentioned in a statement posted on the news publication’s takedown, said it did not get the opportunity to learn the piece of content that the government had flagged for national security concerns. This lack of transparency around content takedowns has the potential to cause independent news sites to self-censor to avoid losing their platform.

Complete site takedowns are not unusual by any means. In February this year , the government gave out orders for the Tamil News website Vikatan after it published a cartoon showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his hands and feet cuffed and chained, sitting next to US President Donald Trump. Vikatan took the matter to the Madras High Court, and the court granted the site interim relief, lifting the ban on the site provided the publication took down the cartoon. As Vikatan mentioned in its petition, a complete site shutdown, as the government chose to enforce in all three of these cases, is a disproportionate measure. It can adversely impact the publication in question financially through lost readership, while also depriving citizens of access to journalistic works.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event