Hi team, Subjected jeevan sathi id which has been deleted after getting in contact with me 45 days ago. This id was created by a fraud claiming to be a neurosurgeon born and brought up in huntsville albama, usa and is currently working under un as a doctor in san'aa yemen. He told me that he could not speak to me over the audio or video call due to the restriction there and his calls are encrypted and he can be in trouble if he call or talks to me. We continued chatting only in which after some time he told me that he is not sufficient with him to have three meals there. His income is being transferred to his us account which he is not able to access and is also not able to get in touch with his dad as he is a sailor in the usa and due to sea waves, his network does not seem to be working. he said he wants to come meet me for marriage and my family to convince them how genuine and real he is, therefore he is arranging funds from his friends in usa. However after some time he told me that with all the fnd he could arrange he is still short of 1000usd. He emotionally pressurized and convinced me for which i transferred 500usd twice in his account in the interval of 10-15 days. He gave me a indian bank of baroda account with uttam nagar, delhi branch. He further showed me his tickets from muscat to delhi as well via ari indigo and he would be coming from san'aa to muscat oman via bus as they dont have air service there.in the middle of the night while he was on road (As he said) he told me he is being held by a customs official for the box of gold he is carrying with him which was given to hime by saving some prominent lives in yemen. Custom wont let him go unless he pays 2580usd or they might kill him right there or take him in custody. Then i understood he was lying because he was constantly in access of the internet and chatting with me, i even got a friend to contact him using the same alias and he spoke to her nicely and gave her a different name and his different pics. Please help me catch this guy and check from which ip address the profile was originally created so that such a person can be stopped right there. Please contact me if you need any further information on this person to move ahead. Regardsshallu Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)