Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. The instant application has been moved on behalf of applicant with a prayer to enlarge him on bail in Case Crime No.43 of 2022, under Sections 376 , 120B , 506 I.P.C., Police Station Mansoorpur, District Muzaffarnagar, during pendency of trial. The brief facts necessary for disposal of this bail application is that the victim lodged a first information report on 24.2.2022 at 15:41 p.m. on the order of Magistrate alleging therein that her husband died three years ago and she was blessed by two children. After his death, she used to raise his children by doing menial work. It is further alleged that one Raunak of his village has stated that how she can manage to raise her children, he will help her for her second marriage. Thereupon, he took her to his truck owner Muzahid, who told her that he will raise her children and will marry her. He made physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage and thereafter she became pregnant. Later on the applicant got it aborted after three months and it is further alleged that the applicant prepared her nude video to blackmail her. It is contended by learned counsel for the applicant that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case due to ulterior motive. It is further contended that the first information report was lodged after three years of the alleged incident. It is further contended that she refused to undergo for medical examination. It is further contended that if she was medically examined then it will prima facie be established that no operation was taken place or otherwise some evidence may be procured. It is further contended that the applicant has no criminal history. It is further contended that delay in lodging the first information report has not been explained. It is further contended that the co-accused Raunak who is alleged to have enticed the victim and took to the applicant, has already been enlarged on bail by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court vide order dated 28.6.2022 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No.25588 of 2022. It is further contended that the applicant is languishing in jail since 27.4.2022 and if the applicant is released on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail. Learned A.G.A. for the State and learned counsel for informant have opposed the application and have submitted that the victim has supported the prosecution version in her statements under Sections 161 & 164 Cr.P.C. Having heard the submissions of learned counsel for the parties, nature of accusation and the severity of the punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence, prima facie satisfaction of the Court in support of the charge and keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, I find it to be a fit case for bail. Accordingly, the bail application stands allowed. Let the applicant Muzahid @ Kallu involved in the aforesaid crime be released on bail on executing a personal bond and furnishing two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. Order Date :- 15.9.2022/Anil K. Sharma