This is an appeal filed by the Assessee under section 253 of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as Act) as and by way
second appeal before this Tribunal. The Assessee is aggrieved by the
order dt. 29/03/2010 passed in First Appeal No. 111/HSR/2016-17 which
pertains to the assessee. The order dt. 29/03/2010 is passed by
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) u/s250(6) of the Act which is
hereinafter referred to as the "impugned order". The relevant AY is 2014-15
and the corresponding previous year period is from 01/04/2013 to
31/03/2014. 2. Factual Matrix

 Proceedings before AO 2 2.1 The assessee derived income from salary, business income from
partnership firms, capital gains and income from other sources during the
financial year ending 31/03/2014 relevant to the A.Y.2014-15. 2.2 That theassessee filed return of income for the A.Y 2014-15 on
29/04/2015 declaring a total income of Rs. 8,58,360/-. 2.3 That the case of the assessee was selected through CASS system of
ITD for examination of "suspicious sale transaction in sales and exempt
long term capital gains shown in return (penny stock tab in ITS)" under the
scope complete scrutiny. 2.4 That the statutory notice under section 143(2) of the Act was issued
on 26/07/2016 and subsequent notices too under section 143(2) and 142(1) of the Act, 1961 alongwith Questionnaire were issued and served
upon the assessee. 2.5 That the Counsel for the Assessee attended the assessment
proceedings from time to time and furnished the requisite information. 2.6 That perusal of the computation of income, return of income
furnished by the assessee reveals that the assessee has shown exempt
income of Rs. 1,04,06,769/- and claimed the same as exempt u/s 10(38) of
the Act. 2.7 That as per the details of statement of long term capital gains
transaction, tax exempt under section 10(38) ; the shares of "NCL Research
and Financial Services Ltd." Numbering 7000 were purchased @ Rs. 257/-
per share on 30/04/2012 for a total consideration of Rs. 18,07,540/- and
that the same were sold on different dates from 20/05/2013 to 13/09/2013
i.e; during the F.Y. 2013-14 relevant to A.Y 2014-15 for a consideration of Rs.
1,22,14,309/-in aggregate thereby earning a Long Term Capital Gain 3 amounting to Rs. 1,04,06,769/- on sale of shares which was claimed as
Exempt Income under section 10(38) of the Act. 2.8 That after examining the information and written submissions
furnished from time to time, taking into consideration the sworn
statements, the assessment is completed as under:- 2.9 The above order of assessment is under section 143(3) of the Act of
ITO Ward-1, Sirsa. It is dated 31/12/2016. 2.10 In the aforesaid assessment order dt. 31/12/2016 the Ld. AO has
taken into consideration investigation carried out by the investigation
wing of Income Tax Department which led to a country wide investigation
to unearth the organized racket of generating bogus entries of long term
capital gains (hereinafter called LTCG) which is exempt from tax u/s
10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Modus Operandi

2.11 The modus operandi adopted by the "operators" was to make the
beneficiaries buy some shares of a pre determined penny stock
companies controlled by them. These shares were transferred to the
beneficiaries at a very nominal price mostly off line through preferential
allotment or offline sale to save STT. 2.12 The beneficiary individuals were made to hold the shares for a
minimum period of one year, the statutory period after which LTCG is 4 exempt under the provisions of Section 10(38) of the Income Tax Act,
1961. 2.13 In the meanwhile the operators rig the price of the stocks and
gradually rise its price many times. This is done through low volume
transaction indulged in by the dummies of the operator at a pre
determined price. When the price reaches the desired level, the
beneficiaries who bought the shares at a nominal price were made to sell
the same to a dummy paper companies of the operator. For this,
unaccounted cash was provided by the beneficiaries which was routed
through a few layer of paper companies by the operator and finally
parked with the dummy paper companies that would buy the shares. 2.14 Further it may be mentioned here that the prices of the shares of the
penny stock companies were rigged and were raised through circular
trading. 2.15 The circular trading was managed by the "operators" of the scrips.
An "operator" is a person who was managing the overall affairs of the
scheme and he was the one who contacted the entities who wished to
take entry of bogus LTCG / STCG in their books and arranged the same
through the scrips of penny stock companies. The operator managed
many paper / bogus companies and used them to do circular
transactions to rig the price of the shares. The shares of these penny stock
companies; although listed on exchange, were always closely held and
were controlled by the promoter of the penny stock companies and the
operators who were arranging for the bogus LTCG/LTC Loss. This was due
to the fact that the general public was not interested in the shares of
these companies as these companies had no credentials and this helped
the operators to keep a control on the price movement of the shares. 2.16 That if beneficiary say, "B" bought 10,000 shares of company "P" @
Rs. 1/- per share and sold it @ Rs. 500/- per share, he would make on
paper, capital gain of Rs. 49,90,000/-. In his bank account there would be
a cheque deposit of Rs. 50,00,000/- paid by the paper company that buys
the shares. The receipt is primafacie exempt from tax under the provisions
of section 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 2.17 That the Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata investigated the
transactions in 84 such penny stock shares quoted on BSE and during the
course of investigation examined on oath a large number of brokers,
Directors of Companies that finally purchased the shares, the promoters of
penny stock companies, the entry operators, who managed the dummy
companies involved in price rigging. The money trail of the transactions
was also examined and in a large number of transactions, trail right from
cash deposit account to the beneficiaries account was unearthed. As a
result of the above investigation, individuals who have taken such entries
of bogus LTC gains amounting to a number of crores have been
identified. The result of the investigation in brief are as under: A large amount has also been voluntarily surrendered by such assessees. (iv) In Kolkata, where this investigation was started some of the
beneficiaries who had taken entries have voluntarily surrendered it for
taxation without any further enquiry. 2.18 That the scrip "NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd." In which
the assessee traded was suspended by SEBI on 07/01/2015 i.e; suspending
sale of scrips. Screen shot evidencing suspension is placed on record in Ld.
AO Assessment Order dt. 31/12/2016 at page 3 & 4. Security code of "NCL
Research Financial Services Ltd." Was 530557 as per BSE data. 2.19 In the order of assessment of Ld. AO dt.. 31/12/2016 it was alleged
that as part of adjudication and adjudgement process, that the assessee
Shri Krishna Kumar Jalan is one such beneficiaries who had taken entry of
Rs. 1,04,06,769/- of LTCG during the F.Y. 2013-14 i.e relevant to the A.Y.
2014-15 the year under consideration and had claimed exemption for
LTCG amounting to Rs.. 1,04,06,769/- u/s 10 (38) of the Income Tax Act,
1961 by selling shares of "NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd."The
assessee had purchased 7,000 shares of "NCL Research and Financial
Services Ltd." On 30/04/2012 for a consideration of Rs. 18,07,540/-. 2.20 That during the course of the assessment proceedigns, the
assessee's AR furnished written submissions whereby copies of
computation statement, Bank Statements, details of Long Term Capital
Gain were enclosed. 2.21 That the assessee purchased and sold the shares of "NCL Research
and Financial Services Ltd." The details of which are as under: Were recorded by the Income Tax Authorities wherein they all have on
oath stated that they have provided and accommodated bogus LTCG. 2.25 That a show cause notice / letter dt. 19/12/2016 was issued and
served upon the assessee which in sum and substance stated as under: Q.56. It is seen from the trading details of NCL that all the preferential
allottees have sold their shares during the period when the Price of the
shares were hovering around Rs. 1800 to Rs. 2100. Once the preferential
allottees sold their shares, the price of the shares of NCL took a dip and
the current price of shares is around Rs. 14. The trading in the shares of
NCL has been banned by BSE w.e.f. 1.1.2015. The whole scheme of event
shows that NCL is a penny stock company and the prices of the shares
have been manipulated. Please explain why it should not be considered
that the shares of NCL have been used to provide entry of bogus Long
Term Capital Gain and Short Term Capital Loss." In response to the above question the Chairman & Managing Director of
NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd. Sri Vijay Jaydeo Poddar,
deposed under oath that NCL is a penny stock company, and the shares
of the company had been used to provide entry of bogus Long Term
Capital Gain to the preferential allottees. Further to this, Sri Viay Jaydeo
Poddar could not answer the following question posed during the course
of survey. Q.55. It is seen that the price of the shares of NCL have risen from Rs. 302
on 7.6.2012 to Rs. 2107 on 9.7.2013. This is a rise of 600% within a span of
one year. During this period there has been no corporate announcement
by NCL which suggests that the company is undertaking any substantial
development activity. The primary source of income during these years
has been only the interest income and during this period the company
has incurred huge losses in trading of securities and commodities. In the
light of these facts kindly explain the phenomenal rise in the price of
shares of NCL." As stated supra, the CMD did not give proper reply and stated that he
was unable to explain. 3. Similarly. Shri Mahavir Prasad Saraswat who is found to be a director in
NCL Research and Financial Services l.ict. had given a sworn statement
on 27.5.2015 in response to summons issued u/s. 131 at Aayakar Bhavan
Annexe Building, Kolkata. The relevant excerpts of the statement together
with the deposition of Sri Mahavir Prasad Saraswat, the Director of NCL
Research and Financial Services Ltd. are as under: 4. Sri Goutam Bose, one of the Directors of NCL Research & Financial
Services Ltd. in his sworn deposition recorded on 27.5.2015, deposed that
cash is taken from the beneficiaries who wanted to book bogus Long
Term Capital Gain. It is stated that the cash so provided to Manish Baid
and the same was routed through Shell/Jamakharchi companies
controlled by Mr. Manish Baid and finally to such paper companies
purchased shares from such individuals and get cheques of Long Term
Capital Gains. It also came to light that NCL Research and Finance
Services Lid. is suspended by BSE as part of surveillance measures for
indulging in suspicious transactions of bogus Long Term Capital Gains. 5. In view of the foregoing facts and circumstances, the transactions
 entered into by you for purchase and sale of shares of NCL Research and
 Financial Services Ltd. are found to be bogus as the said company
 accommodated bogus entries and issued cheques for bogus Long-Term
 Capita! Gains. It is therefore proposed to treat the said amount of Rs.
 1,04.06,769/- as unexplained credit found in the books of account, and
 add u/s. 68 to the income returned. You are requested to show cause as
 to why the exemption claimed u/s. 10(38) towards Long Term Capital
 Gains, be denied and why it should not be added u/s. 68 to the income
 returned. Your reply should reach the undersigned on or before 21.2.2016
 failing which it will be construed that you do not have any explanation to
 offer in this regard and the assessment will be completed as proposed
 above without any further notice ". 2.26 That in response to the above show cause notice the assessee
furnished reply on 21/12/2016 which in sum and substance is as under: (3 ) The statement recorded from the Chairman and other directors may
 kindly be provided to me if it affects my claim of long term capital gain.
 Ialso request that the persons who have made adverse comments
 regarding the share transactions may please be produced for my cross
 examination. (4) The information/details called for regarding the claim of LTCG
 Exemption on sale of shares were furnished. All the transactions are
 genuine and routed through proper channels i.e., shares were purchased
 through account payee cheque. The company is a listed company,
 shares are traded in the stock exchange, shares are sold through demat
 account. Received payment through RTGS. All the information was
 submitted earlier may be perused/reconciled. If any further information is
 required, the same will be furnished accordingly. (5 ) Inpara NO.-4 of the letter dt. 19.2.2016, is is mentioned that
 beneficiaries who wanted to book bogus long term capital gains have
 paid cash to purchase shares is false. Inthe assessee case the purchase of
 sharps was made through account payee cheque. (6) Regarding the proposal to treat the amount of Long term capital gain
 of Rs. 1.04,06,769/- as unexplained credit u/s. 68 of the Act. It is submitted
 that the assessee has purchased shares with account payee cheques, 12 shares were, held under demat account after two years the shares were
 sold through stock exchange and the amount was received through
 RTGS. The purchase bills, demat account copy and sale bills were
 furnished, hence it is requested that the proposal u/s. 68 to treat the LTCG
 claim as unexplained cash credit may please be dropped. 2.27 That the aforesaid request of the assesseewith regard to copies of
sworn depositions of CMD and other Directors of "NCL Research and
Financial Services Ltd." Were provided to the assesse (Para 4.3 of Ld. AO
order). 2.28 That the assessee has sold the shares on different dates i.e; on
20/05/2013 , 27/05/2013, 28/05/2013, 08/07/2013 and 13/09/2013. 2.29 That the assessee has shown credit of Rs. 1,04,06,769/- in his bank
account as sale proceeds of shares. 2.30 That the investigation evidently speaks of actual source of this credit
is the unaccounted cash of the assessee. 2.31 That the assessee was asked to explain the source of this credit. 2.32 The explanation offered is that it is sale proceeds of shares are found
to be not only unsatisfactory but false. 2.33 The assessee has been confronted with all the evidence gathered
and the issues. 2.34 The explanation of the assessee is general in nature that as the
transaction is through stock exchange and the payment is by cheque, the
transaction should be treated as genuine. 2.35 That the premises drawn up supra shows that the transaction
ipsofacto does not prove genuineness. The SEBI after thorough
investigation has certified that such transactions are rigged and are 13 carried out to convert the black money into white. Credit in the bank
account of the assessee cannot be treated as explained and is liable to
be added under section 68 of the Act. 2.36 That the assessee had miserably failed to discharge the onus and
therefore the only inescapable conclusion that like thousand other
individuals the assessee has also taken entry of bogus LTCG by paying
unaccounted income. The burden of proof within the meaning of Section
68 is not discharged by the assessee. The assessee has failed to discharge
proof that claim of LTCG as exempt u/s 10(38) 2 .37 The summation of facts are as under: 2.38 The transactions is found to be not genuine in view of following: (iv) That even assuming the purchase as genuine, the sales, given the
 high rates for such penny stocks, with no real buyers, are bogus. The
 evidenciary value of payment of STT cannot make a non-genuine
 transaction, a genuine one. (v) The scrip is a penny stock, purchased at a low price, which is over a
 period of time ramped up by operators acting in benami names or name
 lenders. The purchases are off market purchases, and not reported on the
 exchange; 2.39 That the Ld. AO in assessment order dt. 31/12/2016 has also stated
that while arriving at conclusion to affirmly say that the transactions
entered into by the assessee in purchase and sale of LTCG are not
genuine and he has taken bogus entry of LTCG the guiding Supreme
Court Judgments are as under: 2.40 The Ld. AO has recorded as under in the assessment order dated
31/12/2016 : 31/12/2016 for A.Y. 2014-15 prefers first appeal before Ld. CIT(A) who by
the impugned order has however sustained the aforesaid addition of Rs.
1,04,06,769/-; in 1st Appeal No. 111/HSR/2016-17. 4. The assessee being aggrieved by the impugned order dt.
29/03/2019 passed u/s 250(6) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 has challenged
the impugned order interalia on the following grounds: 5. Record of Hearing

5.1 The hearing in the matter took place on 22/10/2024 when Ld. AR for
and on behalf of the assessee has placed on record following paper
books: 5.2 The Ld. DR has placed on record a Paper Book containing pages 1
to 54 dt. 05/08/2024. 5.3 It was contended by Ld. AR that "impugned assessment order" and
"impugned order" is based on investigations report of Directorate of
Income Tax (investigation) Kolkata which is on racket of generating bogus
entries of LTCG to avail exemption u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
This report of DGI-IT has overwhelmed and overpowered both the lower
authorities i.e Ld.AO and CIT(A) so much that they failed to carry out their
own independent verification. They failed to apply their own independent
judicious mind to the facts and circumstances of the present case. They
failed to appreciate evidence. Addition u/s 68 is made as unexplained 23 credit without any evidence on record in so far as present assessee is
concerned. 5.4 The Ld. CIT(A) and Ld. AO orders are illegal and bad in law as they
have gone by preponderance of probability. The judicial decisions
applied are all wrong and not applicable to the facts and the
circumstances of the present case. The orders are based on assumptions
and presumptions. The roving and fishing inquiry has prevailed over
reasons given in the impugned orders of lower authorities. 5.5 The sheet anchor of Ld. AR argument before us was that the
assessee has not failed to discharge the onus that the transaction was real
and was accurate one. 5.6 That in so far s the transaction of both buying and selling is
concerned the assessee has indeed provided the details of transactions,
the broker through which the same was purchased and sold same has
been detailed in the assessment order. The transaction was through the
Registered Brokers, had been properly accounted for in the books of
accounts and was through proper channel. It was contended
vehemently that once the assessee has discharged his onus by providing
the authenticated true documents and details in support of the
transaction of purchase and sale of shares, the onus shifts to the Assessing
Officer to prove that the content on basis of cogent evidence and
reasons are wrong and that the income from sales of shares is
unaccounted income. This onus has not been discharged by the
Department of Income Tax at both levels. The theory of Department of
Income Tax on penny stock is a generalized theory which is expounded
by Investigation Wing of Income Tax Department at Kolkata. Since the
entire order is based on such report of lower authorities same gets vitiated 24 and shows non application of mind. The exercise of power is not judicious
and not independent. 5.7 Yet another sheet anchor of the argument of Ld. AR was that
rejection of claim by Ld. AO under section 10(38) of the Act, the addition
of entire sum of sale consideration u/s 68 of the Act are based on
"Presumption & Assumptions" as well as "Conjectures & Surmises" only on
basis of one unspecified investigation report from Directorate of
Investigation, Kolkata on, the generalized issue of Pan India organized
racket of generating bogus entries of Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG)
though dealings in penny stock shares. The report has no mention of the
Assessee name nor there is any specific investigation with reference to the
assessee. The Assessing Officer ought not to have placed reliance on such
generalized investigation report which did not link assessee directly. The
investigation report is highly swayed to a generalised and non specific
conclusion based on jargonized concepts such as penny stock, rigged
share market etc.

5.8 That it is required to be noted by this Tribunal that both the
Authorities below have given their findings without any cogent reason,
facts or evidence that sale proceeds, that came to the bank account of
the assessee as basis of some cash flow of some unaccounted money. 5.9 That authorities never ever shared with the assessee any specific
information which was collected behind the back of the assessee and
that the same was used against the assessee during the course of
assessment. 5.10 That the copies of sworn depositions of the Chairman & MD and
other Directors of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." were provided 25 to the assessee. But no opportunity however was granted to cross
examine such Chairman / MD and other Directors of "NCL Research and
Financial Services Ltd." even though the assessee had made specific
requests in this regard vide its reply filed on 21/12/2016 which fact is even
recorded by Ld. AO. 5.11 Further it is also requires to be appreciated by this Tribunal that the
statements given by the Chairman / MD, Directors of "NCL Research and
Financial Services Ltd." did not being about any fact that there was any
artificiality in these share transactions. They only said that one Manish Baid
is the person who can explain the details of the transactions. That Shri
Manish Baid however was neither confronted by the Income Tax
Investigating Authorities or the Assessing Officers and nor the assessee was
allowed to confront and cross examined Mr. Manish Baid. It was
emphatically contended by Ld. AR that none of the statements of the
above mentioned person made any mention of the assessee. No adverse
inference can be drawn on this basis. 5.12 The Ld. AR brought to our notice that the transaction relating to the
securities both buy and sell were done through by the assessee through a
broker. The broker was not confronted with the assessee by Tax
Department nor by SEBI. However the Ld. AR candidly said that Ld AO
mentions that SEBI has held the scrip of "NCL Research and Financial
Services Ltd. " under surveillance measure and later on suspended the
sale of scrip on 07/01/2015 (page 15 para 2.3.2 paper book volume I)

5.13 The Ld. AR has contended before us that surveillance by SEBI is not a
determinative factors for transactions of buy and sell of scrip of "NCL
Research & Financial Services Ltd." to be dubbed as bogus and not
genuine. There is total absence of a conclusive final report of SEBI. Further 26 "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." was put under survillance by SEBI
on 07/01/2015 which pertains to the A.Y. 2015-16 and not for the A.Y. 2014-
15 which is under consideration, in present appeal. Hence Department
contention that for aforesaid this reason the share transaction by the
assessee was not in order is not tenable. 5.14 That the Ld. AR has contended before this Tribunal that the share
transaction happened through the DEMAT Account, the bank account
and through recognized brokers and that transaction are duly and
properly accounted for. 5.15 It was contended by the Ld. AR that the Ld. AO used downloaded
unverified audit report from website about "NCL Research and Financial
Services Ltd. basis that took a view that results of the company were not
as such too command a higher price in the market. Hence both orders of
lower authorities are bad in law and illegal. They are not proper. Claim
cannot be denied under these circumstances of LTCG. 5.16 That Ld. AR has once again contended that though the Ld AO has
tried to propound the theory of "preponderance of probability" in tax
matters, he miserably failed to appreciate that such theory cannot stand
before existing facts and circumstances of the case, evidences etc. The
Ld. AO has failed to:- 5.17 The Ld. AR has brought to our notice that market price of shares are
not decided by bland financials of the company but is determinative of
various other factors including moods, sentiments, emotion of stock
players in stock market, various other market factors on date of share
transaction and that heavy rise and fall in share price is not uncommon to
share market transactions. 5.18 The Assessing Officer as well as the Learned Commissioner of Income
Tax (Appeals) on the other hand has admitted that the Appellant had
submitted copies of the Contract Notes for sale of shares and proved that
both purchase and sale transactions of theequity shares under
consideration were through banking c h a n n e l s and were genuine. It
has been adequately recognised that the said genuine share transactions
did suffer Securities "'Transaction Tax and Brokerage etc. and the same
cannot be held as bogus. Having said that the learned Commissioner of
Income - Tax (Appeals) ignored the fact that the Assessing Officer made
the addition solely on the basis of the so-called unsubstantiated and non-
specific Investigation Report of Kolkata Investigation Wing of the Income -
Tax Department. The Assessing Officer's observation that the said
company NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd. was a Penny Stock
Company, and that it was improbable for its stock price to increase was 28 an unsubstantiated sweeping observation and therefore was misplaced
and misleading. 5.19 The Ld. AR placed reliance on several case laws which in sum and
substance speaks that assumptions, presumptions, pure guess, suspicion,
conjectures, surmises, have no role in assessment. In admissible material,
irrelevant material have no place. Reliance was placed on Supreme
Court decisions in case of Dhirajlal GirddhariLal V. CIT ( 1954) 26 ITR
736(SC) and Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Vs. CIT (1954) 26 ITR 775(SC). 5.20 The investigation wing of Income Tax Department Report cannot be
taken in to consideration at all as gossple truth. The assessee is not figuring
in report not his share transaction leading to LTCG. Assesee is unaware of
dummy and paper company. Statements recorded during course of
investigation does not point out towards assesee and his transaction in
question. Modus operandi discovered cannot be attributed to assessee.
Assessee's transactions is genuine and not bogus. It is through organized
channel. The broker has good reputation in market. Broker of assessee is
not implicated in any manner. Department has painted "NCL Research &
Financial Services Ltd." as a non functional dummy company basis copy
of its fiancials down loaded from website. Sources of download is
"Moneycontrol.com" hence downloaded statistics are unconfirmed and
cannot be relied upon. Information from company or MCA sites are not
downloaded. 5.21 It was also contended that the Company "NCL Research &
Financial Services Ltd." has its own website were all information are
available. It was corporated in the year 1985. It got listed on BSE in the
year 1994. The "NCL Research & Financials Services Ltd." has been in
business of "Textiles & Investment activities in Shares & Securities". The 29 company is duly registered with RBI as NBFC, as it is in the business of
Finance also. It's website also depicts all it's financials through annual
reports. Therefore such company cannot be called a non entity, dummy
and penny stock company. The Ld. AO has not appied his mind and so
also first appellate Authority. 5.22 The Ld. AO has erroneously called share purchased and sold as
"Preferential Shares" when admittedly the shares are not preferential. 5.23 Shri Manish Baid implicated by MD & Other Directors of "NCL
Reserarch & Financials Services Ltd." is a lose end left open. 5.24 The orders of lower authorities i.e. Ld. AO and Ld. CIT(A) are not
objective but are subjective. The Company is a proper legal entity with all
Registration in place. 5.25 The Reasoning that other similarly situated person like assesee have
surrendered claim of LTCG is ill founded. 5.26 The assessee is investor in security market. This is not an isolated
transaction. 5.27 That other family members of assessee to have benefited is no
argument. 5.28 It was finally prayed that impugned order should be set aside and
addition of Rs. 1,04,05,769/ be deleted under section 68 of the Act. 5.29 Per contra the Ld. DR has gone by the orders of lower authorities i.e
Ld. AO & Ld. CIT(A). 6. Observations, Findings & Conclusions 30 6.1 We now have to adjudge and adjudicate this second appeal basis
premises laid down by us. 6.2 We have to decide the legality, validity and the proprietary of the
"impugned order" in accordance with the provisions of law. 6.3 We observe that assessee has placed reliance on number of
judgements of High Courts, Supreme Courts and Tribunal but not a single
judgement was recited and relied upon during the course of hearing
before us. To cite legal precedents as binding precedent have become
ornamental how especially in pleadings, paper books, synopsis, written
submissions etc. The relevant case law which are pari material with
present facts and circumstances of case are seldomly relied upon.
Tribunals are loaded with precedents. It is not stated that which case law
is opt for present facts and circumstances of the case. Parimateria nature
of case law is not cited. 6.4 By "impugned Assessment Order" dt. 31/12/2016 and by virtue of
"impugned order" the claim of 1,04,06,769/- on account of LTCG under section 10(38) stands denied to assessee. The broad issue is whether such
claim is legally tenable or not. If answer is it is legally tenable then assessee
gets benefit of Section 10(38) otherwise not and than in that situation
provisions of Section 68 comes into play together with denial of claim of
LTCG. 6.5 The core allegation against the assessee is that his claim of LTCG of
Rs. 1,04,06,769/- is not tenable and is denied in orders of two authorities
below i.e; Ld. AO & Ld. CIT(A). Consequently addition of Rs. 1,04,06,769/-
in returned income of Rs. 8,58,360/-. Income assessed works out to Rs.
1,12,65,329/-. 6.6 In the field of taxation be it direct or indirect there is enough
jurisprudence now. We have to confine ourself with facts and
circumstances of each and every case as they differ from one another.
Judicial precedents cannot be blindly applied. It should be Apt. 6.7 Be it noted that the subject transaction of buy and sell of share in
securities market is through stock exchange, through DEMAT Account,
through contract notes, through a broker and duly accounted in books by
the assessee leading to LTCG. The transaction is through banking
channels. 6.8 The Assessee throughout has not asserted how the share price of
"NCL Research & Financials Services Ltd." which was purchased at a price
of Rs. 257/- per share on 30/04/2012 for a total consideration of Rs.
18,07,540/- ( 7000 shares) rosed and was sold on different dates from May
to September 2013 aggregating to Rs. 1,22,14,309/- leading to LTCG of Rs.
1,04,06,769/- ;which is whopping increase of 600% within a period of 13 to
17 months a period slightly more than a year. The mysterious rise in price is
just not explained on sound basis market fundamentals / companies
fundamentals. There is studded silence on part of assessee on this score. 6.9 The assessee throughout has maintained studded silence about
company's " financial fundamentals & profit". Needless to state
companys' financials, profit, dividend, earning per share etc if not sole
basis for increase in share price but at least is a paramountal fact, which
requires to be appreciated. In stock market price is discovered and then
delivery takes place. 6.10 The financial details of said "NCL Research and Financial Services
Ltd." are as under: 31/12/2016 (para 4.1, page 6,7,8,&9 of Ld. AO order). It is also recorded at
para 4.3 of Ld. AO order that copies of swon depositions of one and all
were provided to the assessee to meet the case. We therefore hold that
when the owners of NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd (Vijay
Poddar MD) have deposed that 'NCL Research and Financial Services
Ltd' is a penny stock company and has been used for providing bogus
LTCG which deposition is further corroborated by other directors of
company including Gautam Bose Deposition recorded on 27/05/2015
stating and deposing that cash is taken from the beneficiaries who
wanted to book bogus long term capital gain.Cash was provided to one
Manish Baid and same was routed through shell/Jama Kharchi companies
controlled by Manish Baid and finally such paper companies purchased
shares from such individuals and gave cheques of LTCG. We therefore
have no hesitation in holding that NCL scrips were penny stocks and were 36 used by individuals including assessee to book LTCG. The transaction
therefore is tainted one, disentitling the assessee to claim LTCG. The price
was deliberately got sky rocketed despite weak financials, not having
awesome profit, EBIDTA margin, bonus and dividend history. The Ld. AO
has rightly applied circumstantial evidence and applied theory of
preponderance / human probabilities" rightly. We therefore have no
hesitagation in holding that scrip NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd
was artificially hiked in pre planned manner to get undue benefits by
misusing the exemption u/s 10 (38) of the Act and Ld. CIT(A) has rightly
sustained the order of assessment. 6.13 We hold that Revenue cannot take care or accept such make
believe transactions as presented by the Assessee. The assessee
contention that no cross examination opportunity was provided does not
hold water as sum and substance of accusation was provided to the
assessee; they were informed and given all statements of MD and other
(Para 4.3 of Ld. AO order) Directors of NCL Research and Financial
Services Ltd and in which they have not established nor pleaded nature of
prejudice caused to them for not giving opportunity to cross examine
them. Thus, not giving cross examination opportunity would not vitiate the
proceedings as whatever information was to be given was provided
which was recorded in Para 4.3 of Ld. AO order dt. 31/12/2016. Before us
issue of cross examination and failure to give reasonable opportunity by
lower authority was not pressed hard nor any prejudice caused was
pressed; by virtue of which 'impugned order' becomes vitiated including
that of Ld. AO. 6.14 We are of the considered view that Ld. AR arguments that assesee is
not impleaded in the investigation report holds no water as it is post 37 "Traded Transaction dated" investigation. Revenue in the present case
has been able to secure "Evidence" of artificial rise in penny stocks of
"NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd" both by Investigation Wing
report of Income Tax Department; trading pattern of scrip, steps taken by
SEBI, financials of "NCL Research and Financial Services Ltd" and above
all statements on oath of key officials of "NCL Research & Financial
Services Ltd." These material evidence coupled with peculiar facts and
circumstances i.e trading pattern of scrip of "NCL Research & Financial
Services Ltd.", its meteorological rise and falls on flour of exchange etc.
are not effectively rebutted, nor explained to demonstrate that both
purchases and sale of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." scrips
were a market related phenomenon caused by market forces and in the
process they made "Killing". While it is true that market sentiments cannot
be gaged purely by financials of the scrip but at the same time it is proven
fact well known in security market that scrips prices tends to go up due to
"strong fundamentals" including financials. The assessee besides showing
paper related transactions of buy and sale has completely failed to
demonstrate both before lower authorities and before us any evidence,
materials, factors, circumstances, trading pattern, graphs, etc explaining
showing and demonstrating before us with help of stock exchange data
or otherwise that prices after purchases went up by 600%. Approximately
due to strong undercurrent and fundamentals of scrip "NCL Research &
Financial Services Ltd.". The assessee fails on this score. We hold that
mere showing papers of transactions of scrip NCL in form of contract
notes, bills, invoices, payment of STT, D'MAT records, banking channel
evidences per se does not explain and demonstrate genuineness of the
share transactions unless and until assesee primafacie shows to the
authorities particularly so when LTCG is claimed in return that rise in prices 38 of scrip was a natural market related phenomenon which was driven by
market related forces like strong financials of scrips, dividend history,
bonus history, profitability, co/scrips securing large orders / projects,
soundness of promoters, sudden spurt in demand of companies product
or services etc. In the absence of any positive statement / explanation,on
part of the assesse, we have no hesitation in holding that prices of scrip
"NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." were indeed rigged and assssee
made a killing by dubious way as has been found by Department. We
hold that in normal circumstances in ITR the assessee is only required to
show computation of LTCG but in scrutiny assessment the authorities are
well within their rights to question the genuineness of the transactions and
it becomes incumbent upon the assessee to offer suitable explanation /
documents first in addition to papers of share transactions. The
explanation / documents in such a situation should be on real time basis
as to what triggered the rise in pries like strong under current in market
and scrip, strong financials of scrip, profitability of scrip, dividend history of
scrips, bonus history of scrips, splitting of scrips, strong background of
promoters, bank and institutions supporting scrips, mutual funds supporting
scrips, foreing institutions taking plunge in the scrips, ESOP announcements
by scrip/company, CSR initiative by scrip/company the list is endless.
Unfortunately suffice to say assessee save and except producing papers /
documents of purchase / sale transactions of 'NCL' scrip has nothing
positive to assert what factors genuinely made them to make "Killing" in
stock market. Assesee fails on this score. Revenue is entitled in law to
question such transactions and in a given case are also entitled in law to
go behind the transactions to see real nature of transactions with a view to
ascertain whether it is a real or sham / make believe or not. WE hold that
very language of section 10(38) speaks of "any income arising from the 39 transfer of a long term capital asset being an equity share in a company".
The concept of STT, stock exchange, international financial centre etc too
finds mention in it. Therefore the very nature of transfer of a long term
capital asset transaction being an equity share in a company is required
in law to be ascertained and inquired into by tax authorities in order to
determine whether the claim of the assessee is really genuine or bogus. If
after such determination and inquiry if it is found that the transaction in
equity is genuine and not a sham or make believe and upon proper
explanation by the assessee which is plausible then as a matter of right
the assessee in law is entitled to relief on claim made on LTCG. However if
above parameters are not found to be satisfactory and transaction of
equity is found to be tainted as has happened in the instant case then the
assessee claim is liable to be rejected. For making a claim of LTCG in ROI it
is upto assessee to make a claim basis sound foundation on real time
basis. Mere submission of documents of share transaction, purchase and
sale made through recognized stock broker whose track record are good,
transactions through banking channels, issuance of contract notes, bills,
invoices, payment of STT, transaction on floor of stock exchanges etc are
in our considered view are only indication that income has arisen from
"transfer of a long term capital asset" but whether such transfer basis
transaction on floor of a exchange is real or sham/make believe can be
looked into and have been rightly looked into and have been found to
be sham on real time basis on basis of statement of very Chairman / MD
and other Directors of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." coupled
with detailed investigation done by Investigation Wing of Department of
Income Tax, failure of part of assessee to offer a valid explanation on spurt
in prices of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." basis strong financial
fundamental which are key for rise in price of scrip in market). WE thus find 40 no infirmity legal or otherwise in the 'impugned order'. The assessee
contention is more in nature of rebuttal of evidence found by Department
but lacks on meritorious nature of transfer of share transaction. It is not a
case of private nature of transaction which two individuals have entered
into where autonomy of parties are inherent but it is a transaction on floor
of exchange where shares are traded, prices of shares are determined on
nano second basis on several factors (supra) and assessee owes a
explanation to Revenue while claiming benefit of LTCG to at least
primafacie say that transactions of transfer are at arm's length, buyers
and sellers are not related and price is sole criteria for transfer and that
there is no mutuality of interest. Unfortunately no such explanation
contention is canvassed in a positive way in support of claim made of
LTCG. Per contra Department has proved that there was price rigging,
accommodation entry provided, action taken by SEBI, weak financials,
and finally the statements of MD and other Directors admitting that scrips
prices were rigged and entry provided. We hold that merely because
Revenue could not get hold of 'Manish Baid' who was implicated as
mastermind person who was brain behind the scam ip so facto does not
means that prices were not rigged, there was no circular trading and
accommodation entry were not provided for. 6.15 We are of the considered view after examining the material on
record that transaction of share transfer right from purchase to sale is a
colourable device deliberately created to give a colour of genuineness
which is not permissible in law.We gainfully place reliance on the
judgment of Hon'ble Supreme court of India in case of Mcdowell Ltd. Vs.
CTO reported in 154 ITR 148(SC) which though permits tax planning but 41 not colourable devices to evade taxes and to hood wink the tax
authorities. 6.16 We hold that tax exemption claimed of LTCG is on basis of
structured deals. The Ld. AO and Ld. CIT(A) have rightly made addition by
denying the laim made and have rightly treated income as unexplained
income within the meaning of section 68 of the Act. We do not agree with
the contention of Ld. AR that additions have been made without any
evidence and are based on assumptions, presumptions, conjectures and
surmises. The material with Department are cogent and assesse has failed
to rebut the same in a maner known to law. The addition is on cogent
material which have been found post claim made; material is confronted
to assessee, assessee has failed to give a plausible explanation about
genuineness of core transactions. Investigation Wing has unraveled the
truth behind the transactions where shares of insignificant company
called "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." were targeted by market
manipulators in collusion and connivance with Chairman / MD and other
Directors of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." to give
accommodation entries to various persons all over India to claim bogus
exemptions u/s 10(38) of the Act. We hold that merely because assssee
does not know 'Manish Baid' the key person who orchestrated the scam
of price rigging and gave accommodation entry through manipulative
ways through stock exchange deals;does not mean that transaction is
real and not bogus. We further hold that merely because purchase and
sale of shares is through broker on a stock exchange and consideration is
paid through cheques does not mean that transfer transaction of shares
(both purchase and sale) is real and not bogus. We further hold that
copies of contract notes relating to purchase and sale of shares on 42 various dates alongwith details of rate are not sufficient in law to make
transaction real and genuine. We also hold that merely because
transaction is recorded in books by assessee too cannot be criteria to
determine nature of transaction of share transfer. We hold that in peculiar
facts and circumstances of the present case what is relevant is
genuineness of transaction of both purchase and sale. We find that
assessee purchased shares of "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd."
and sold the same within a period of 14 to 15 months. 600% gain is
claimed which in our considered view is peculiar and abnormal gain. vii) That genuineness could validly be tested on the ground or principle of
 preponderance of human probabilities, which could thus form a valid ground or
 parameter for determining the genuineness, stands since settled by the apex
 court in Sumati Dayal v. CIT (1995)214 ITR 801 (SC) wherein the apex court, in
 declaring the transaction as non- genuine, discarded a host of documentary
 evidences filed or relied upon by the assessee - appellant. That documentary
 evidences are not by themselves conclusive, and the truth of the matter or the
 documents could be determined on the basis of or on the anvil of the surrounding
 facts and circumstances of the case is well settled, and reliance is placed on the
 decision in the case of Durga Prasad More 82 ITR 540(SC). 6.21 We are also in conformity with the findings of Ld. CIT(A) in respect of
his following observation: The evidentiary value of payment of STT cannot make a non genuine
 transaction, a genuine one. ix) The scrip is a penny stock, purchased at a low price, which is
 over a period of time ramped up by operators acting in benami names
 of name lenders. x) The purchases are in the physical form, and dematerialized only
 subsequently; generally long after the purchase date, close to the date
 of sale; 6.22 Further we are also in agreement with view of Ld. CIT(A) in the
impugned order wherein in para 4.11following is held and recorded. 4.11. The following important decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and
 other decisions are relied upon, while arriving at conclusion to affirmly say
 that the transaction entered into by the assessee in purchase and sale of
 LTCG arenot genuine and has taken bogus entry ( i) Sumati Dayal v. CIT - (1995) 214 ITR 801 (SC) (ii) Durga Parsad More - 82 ITR 540 (SC) (iii) Mc. Dowell & Co. Ltd. - 154 ITR 148 (SC) (iv) Asst. CIT v. Som Nath Mani (2006) 100 TTJ 917 (Chd) (v) Govinda Rajulu Mudaliar v. (1958) 34 ITR 807 (SC) vi) Sreelekha Banerjee & othrs. V. CIT (1963) 49 ITR 112 (SC) ( vii) Kalekhan Mohammed Hanif v. CIT (1963) 50 ITR 1 (SC) ( viii) CIT v. Biju Patnaik (1986) 160 ITR 674 (SC) ( ix) CIT v. P. Mohanakala & Others - (2007) 291 ITR 278(SC) 51 6.23 We hold ta tassessee has failed to establish that scrip "NCL Research
& Financial Services Ltd." was capable to to command high price in stock
market. 6.24 We also hold that share transaction documents were created as
masks to cover the true nature of transaction. A genuine transaction must
be proved to be genuine in all respect meaning thereby from top to
bottom and even behind the transaction in order to avail benefit of LTCG.
That the onus was on assessee to prove that the transaction leading to
claim of LTCG was distinctly genuine transaction indeed and not bogus,
premeditated transaction arranged with a view to evade taxes. 6.25 We hold that it was assessee who was asserting a claim that he was
indeed engaged in genuine share transactions. We gainfully refer to the
judgement of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case of Shri Charan Singh
Vs. Chandra Bhan Singh AIR 1988 SC 637 wherein Hon'ble Apex Court has
clarified that the burden of proof lays on the party who substantially assets
the affirmative of the issue and not upon the party who denies it. It has
also been further held that the party cannot on failure to establish a
primafacie case, take advantage of the weakness of his adversary's
case. The party must succeed by the strength of his own right and
clearness of his own proof. He cannot be heard to say that it was too
difficult or virtually impossible to prove the matter in question. 6.26 We hold that despite opportunity assessee has emphasized only on
very nature of transaction basis document of capital assetbut has failed
miserably to establish financial of scrip and has failed to demonstrate that
scrip could indeed command a high price. Wherever there are abnormal
gains, the onus would lie on assessee to prove the abnormal
circumstances and here the assessee has not discharged this onus. 6.27 We gainfully refer to judgement of Hon'ble Calcutta High court in
case of PCIT Vs. Swati Bajaj 139 Taxmann.com 352 (Kol)(2022) wherein it
was held as under: 6.32 Similarly, in the case of SEBI Vs. Mega Corporation Ltd. 136
taxman.com 333, while dealing with a case of income earned through
price manipulations of share, held that right to cross-examination of a
person who gave a complaint, was rejected by Hon'ble Supreme Court . 6.33 In the case of Udit Kalra ITA No. 220/2009, Hon'ble Delhi High Court
held that the company had meagre resources at disposal, negligible
profit, but there was unusual and very high growth in the share price
which does not support the same, the transaction was held to be sham. 6.34 In the case of Sanat Kumar Vs. ACIT Delhi, Circle 36(1), Hon'ble ITAT
Delhi Bench has held that the so-called sale proceed of shares received
and claimed as exempt u/s. 10(38) was held to be sham transaction 56 because of huge price rise of shares at the time of sale despite the fact
that company's profits are negligible and did not support such price rise. 6.35 In the case of Satish Kishore Vs. ITO Delhi, ITA No. 1704 of 2019 dated
6.8.2019, Hon'ble ITAT Delhi has held that the transactions of penny stock
are manipulated ones to get arranged benefits to claim false exemption u/s. 10(38) because there is a cartel of brokers involved in jacking up the
scrip without corresponding profit/prospects of company. All the
contentions of assessee that he was not given cross-examination
opportunity, transactions were done through stock exchange and money
received through banking channels were considered and then only the
exemption u/s. 10(38) was denied because these affairs are all pre-
conceived and arranged affairs which lack genuineness. The same
decision was rendered in the case of Sandeep Bhargava Vs. ACIT Delhi ,
109 taxman.com 174 (Delh-Trib). 6.36 Shamim M. Bharwani Mumbai Vs. ITO-19 (3)(4), Mumbai ITA No.
4906/Mum/2011 (A.Y. 2006-07), Hon'ble Mumbai ITAT : In this case, it was
held that, a penny stock company, Eltrol Ltd., exposing the modus
operandi adopted by assessee, in the case of such stocks, the price, de-
horse any fundamentals or other factor, of paper companies being raked
up on the exchange, so as to yield "gain" and then again, equally,
without basis, grounded to yield "loss", both of which, i.e., "gain" and
"loss" find ready customers or takers. The purpose is to evade tax. The Ld.
CIT(A) wrongly dismissed the Revenue's case by glossing over the many
attendant facts and incidents, the most vital, and on which we observe
complete silence or absence of any explanation, is the absence of any
credentials of investor company. It was further held that the documentary
evidence in the face of unusual events, as prevailing in the instant case, 57 and without any corroborative evidence, cannot be regarded as
conclusive. For the scrip to trade 50 times its face value, in the absence of
trail blazing performance or great business prospects in future, by all
counts, it is a paper company and reverse the findings of first appellate
authority and confirm the impugned sum u/s. 68 of the I.T. Act. 6.37 In the case of M.K. Rajeshwari Vs. ITO [2018] 99 taxmann.com 339
(Bangalore - Trib.) the coordinate bench of the Tribunal has held that
while dealing the issue of long-term capital gain accrued to the assessee,
one has to examine the financials of the company whose shares were
inflated within a short period and after the sharp rise in the price of shares,
it again comes down. It was held as follows :- 6.38 In the case of Rajkumar B. Agarwal vs. DCIT (ITAT Pune), Bench "B"
ITA Nos. 1648 & 1649/PUN/15, it was held as follows :- 6.39 In the case of Pooja Ajmani Vs. ITO (ITAT Delhi) April 25, 2019 ITA No.
5714/Del/2018, it was held as follows :- 6.40 Abhimanyu Soin Vs. Asst, Cit, Circle VII, Ludhiana, ITAT, Chandigarh,
Bench A, ITA No. 951/chd/2016: 6.41 Mrs Vidya Reddy Vs. ITO International Taxation, Ward-1 (2), Chennai
ITAT, D Bench, Chennai

 "All these trading patterns show that LTCG admitted by the assessee is arranged
 one. The payment of Security Transaction Tax was to paint credit worthiness to the
 transaction and claim exemption u/s. 10(38) . In view of the information provided
 by the Investigation wing, Kolkata, the recommendations of SIT on Black money
 etc, the AO required the assessee to prove her claim of exemption. After
 considering her reply etc. held inter alia that it is clear that the assessee has
 manipulated the sale of shares within a span of time in collusion with the brokers
 in order to earn tax free exempt Long term capital gain on sale of shares u/s
 10(38) etc". 6.42 In the case of Somnath Maini Vs. CIT 306 ITR 414, the Hon'ble Punjab
& Haryana High Court, held that claim of genuineness of transactions can
be rejected even if the assessee backs the same with evidence which is
not trustworthy. Hon'ble Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Chandigarh, in
the case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Som Nath Maini by 59 placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Durga Prasad More (2002) 3 BOMLR 747, 2003 (1) MhLj 420 has observed
as under :- 6.43 Chennai ITAT in the case of Rajnish Agarwal in
I.T.A.No.1419/CHNY/2018has held that the penny stock of SRK Industries
Ltd. is not having any financial strength of its own and the sale and
purchase of these shares were held to be sham and LTCG u/s. 10(38) was
denied to the assessee. 6.44 Similarly, in the cases decided by various Tribunals of the country as
mentioned below also, have held that the penny stocks without financial
fundaments to support the astronomical price rise of hundreds of times
within short span of one to two years, are sham transactions and LTCG
claim u/s. 10(38) was denied to them : 6.45 We now intend to examine several case laws which are cited by the
parties before this Tribunal, before we part with this adjudication and
adjudgement of this second appeal. We make it very clear that several case
laws are relied upon by the parties in PB, however we intend to confined
ourselves with few relevant case laws only which are germane to the issue in
hand. (i) PCIT Vs. Hitesh Gandhi (2018) 11 ITR-OL-206 (P&H)

In the above case Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in para 4, 5 & 6 have
recorded as under: The poor financial fundamentals of the scrip was not the issue involved in
the above case as is in the instant case. The assesse in the instant case
has failed to give any explanation about the poor financial health of the
company / scrip called "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd.". The
assessee has also failed to give suitable explanation with regard to other
fundamentals of the scrip like background of the promoters, dividend
history of the company, bonus if any and other factors in the security
market including sentiments which lead to abnormal increase in price of
the scrip in short span of time. The facts of the case in the above cited
case law are different. In the instant case facts are that 7000 shares were
purchased at the price of Rs. 257/- per share and were sold with in slightly
more than a year @ Rs. 1745/- (Avg. rate) giving LTCG of whopping
amount of Rs. 1,04,06,769/-. The sudden and abrupt rise in price was not
based on any strong fundamental factors including financials of the
company. Even otherwise other facts of the case are different, then that
of above cited case law. In the present case price has been held to be a
very high price for which no plausible explanation as prevalent in security
market has been offered by the assessee basis profile of the company
and its fundamentals including financials as per security market practices. (ii) PCIT Vs. Prem Pal Gandhi (2018) 401 ITR 253 (P&H) 63 In the above judgment Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court has on
para 3 has recorded as under: The above facts are not present in the instant case which we have
already stated in immediately above para (supra) while dealing with the
case of Hitesh Gandhi(supra). Hence respectfully we distinguish the case of two judgments of Punjab &
Haryana High Court (supra) on the grounds that the facts are different.
Consequently the ratio of above cases cannot be applied to the peculiar
facts and circumstance of the instant case where apart from poor
financials of the company "NCL Research & Financial Services Ltd." the 64 very Directors and Chairman and Managing Director of "NCL Research &
Financial Services Ltd." have given inculpatory statements about the
accommodation entries, manipulation in prices of the scrip etc. In the
above cases of Punjab & Haryana High Court suspicion about sham
nature of transaction was there and there be no evidence about it. But in
the instant case there is an elaborate discussion about sham and make
belief nature of transaction of transfer of capital asset. There are
evidences and the circumstances to go behind the transfer of capital
asset document to see the reality or real nature of transaction. The
applicability of Mcdowell case, Durga Prasad Case and Sumati Dayals case of Hon'ble Supreme Court are just not discussed. The courts in India
decide upon each case basis facts of that particular case which defer
from one another. The Supreme Court of India and various other High
Courts including jurisdictional High Courts additionally decide upon the
broad proposition of law which they lay down in a case which is required
to be followed by one and all. The Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court
in above two cases have held that basis suspicion without their being any
evidence LTCG cannot be disallowed. Per contra in the instant case the authorities have taken into
consideration the evidence in security market parlance and the
circumstantial evidence surrounding the transaction including the
financial, fundamentals and other fundamentals of the scrip as a ground
to deny LTCG. 6.46 We have also perused the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay High Court
in case of CIT Vs. Mukesh Rati Lal Marolia dt. 07/09/2011 in ITA No. 456 of
2007 and we are of the considered view that the facts therein are totally
different which we reproduce as below: Richmand Securities Pvt.Ltd. held that the sale transaction was genuine. 7. In these circumstances, the decision of the ITAT in holding that the
purchase and sale of shares are genuine and therefore, the Assessing Officer
wasnotjustifiedinholdingthattheamountofRs.1,41,08,484/ represented unexplained
investment under Section 69 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 cannot be faulted. 8. In the result, we see no merit in this Appeal and same is dismissed with no
order as to costs. We therefore are of the view that the Ld. AR has placed reliance on a
case law where the facts are materially different than that of instant case
in hand. 6.47 We have also perused the judgment of Hon'ble Calcutta High Court
in case of CIT Vs. Carbo Industrial Holding Ltd. reported in (2000) 244 ITR
422 (Cal) (page 63,64,65 & 66 of Paper Book Volume II) wherein too the
facts are different from the facts of the present case. The core issue
therein was that the broker had not appeared despite summons and it
was held that mere non appearance by broker would not disentitle the
assessee from claim of loss hence this case is distinguishable from the facts
of the present case. 6.48 The assessee has placed reliance on the following case law in
sequence: 7. In the premises impugned order is sustained and appeal of the
Assessee is dismissed. 8. In the result appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 15/01/2025.