% 14.01.2026 1. This is a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of
 India seeking the following prayers:- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/01/2026 at 20:33:43
 mtrs. To the Petitioner; iii) Issue a Writ of Prohibition prohibiting the Respondent/DDA
 to not allot the said two Shops/Units bearing No. 16 and 14
 Ground Floor, District Center, Laxmi Nagar, Delhi - 110 092
 and measuring 16.99 sq. mtrs. and 13.23 sq. mtrs. to any other
 person/ firm/ company/ agency/ institution except the
 Petitioner;" 10. Hence, the present petition. 11. Ms. Sen, learned standing counsel for the respondent, has drawn my
 attention to paragraph No.6(b) of the counter-affidavit, which reads as
 under:- 12. Ms. Sen, learned standing counsel for the respondent, submits that
 there was an error at the DDA's end and the circle rate of the kiosks in
 question were calculated on the basis of the assumption that the property
 was actually in category "D" colony but the circle rate was calculated on the
 basis category "F" colony. Hence, the reserve price was much lower than
 what it should have been. She further states that the 2 shops/kiosks are to be
 re-auctioned and any other direction would cause loss to the public
 exchequer. She further draws my attention to the counter-affidavit where the
 same is also reiterated. 13. Mr. Mehta, learned counsel for the petitioner, states that the petitioner
 is agreeable to refund of the money provided the same is returned along with
 interest as demanded by the DDA in the "Terms and Conditions For
 Allotment of Built Up Shop/ Office/Kiosk, On Freehold Basis" of the online
 tender auction notice. In this regards, he draws my attention to paragraph
 No. 8 under the heading "2. E-auctioning and Submission of Documents",
 which reads as under:- The competent authority may, in his absolute discretion, extend the
 last date of payment up to a maximum period of 180 days beyond
 the last date of payment with reference to the date of issue of
 demand letter subject to payment of interest on the balance amount
 at rate of 18% per annum where the delay does not exceed by 30
 days and at the rate of 25% per annum where the delay exceeds 30
 days provided that bidder/auctioner has applied to the competent
 authority for grant of extension of payment within 20 days from the
 date of issue of the demand letter." 14. I have heard learned counsel for the parties. 15. It is undisputed fact that the petitioner has made the entire payment to
 the respondent in respect of the two shops without any delay and in
 accordance of the terms and conditions of the online tender auction notice.
 There are no allegations of collusion or fraud committed by the petitioner. 16. The fault lies totally at the respondent's end, as before issuing auction
 notice, it is the responsibility of the authority issuing auction notice to make
 sufficient verifications of the property and see the category it lies in. 17. The petitioner participated in the auction, was declared as the

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/01/2026 at 20:33:43
 successful bidder and duly made the entire payment. The respondent has
 utilized the said consideration and the amount deposited by the petitioner
 has been with the respondent ever since the date of the deposit. 18. A perusal of the paragraph No. 8 under the heading "2. E-auctioning
 and Submission of Documents" from the auction notice (reproduced above)
 shows that the respondent is charging interest on non-payment of the amount
 at the rate of 18% p.a. where the delay in payment is under 30 days from the
 prescribed date and at the rate of 25% p.a. where the delay exceeds 30 days
 from the prescribed date. 19. If the respondent is charging interest on non-payment of the amount at
 the rate of 18% p.a. where the delay is under 30 days from the prescribed
 date and at the rate of 25% p.a. till the date of payment where the delay
 exceeds 30 days from the prescribed date, the same is the accepted rate of
 interest to be charged from the respondent as well. 20. Ms. Sen, learned standing counsel for the respondent, further draws
 my attention to the letter of 31.12.2020 which reads as under:- 21. A perusal of the letter, reproduced above, I am of the view that merely
 writing a letter does not tantamount to refunding the money. The petitioner
 is not required to apply for a refund in case the respondent is the one
 cancelling the allotment on its own. 22. It is the duty of the respondent to return the money and the bank
 details, etc. are already available with the respondent as the petitioner has
 made payments through NEFT credit. 23. A perusal of the letter also shows that there is no mention of the
 respondent refunding the amount with interest. Hence, the same only seems
 to be an eye-wash. 24. For the said reasons, the amount paid by the petitioner shall be
 returned by the respondent along with the interest at the rate of 18% p.a. for
 30 days from the date of deposit and thereafter at the rate of 25% p.a., within
 4 weeks from today. 25. In case, the respondent fails to comply with the directions passed in
 this order, the petitioner will be at liberty to revive the petition. 26. The writ petition is disposed of in the above terms. JASMEET SINGH, J
 JANUARY 14, 2026/DM

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 19/01/2026 at 20:33:43