These appeals at the instance of the assessee were
originally disposed by the ITAT vide its common order dated
23.10.2017. On further appeal at the instance of the
assessee, the Hon'ble High Court vide judgment dated
17.04.2021 in ITA No.883/2017, 897/2017 to 899/2017,
restored the matter to the ITAT for de novo consideration. The
relevant finding of the Hon'ble High Court reads as follows:- The material on which Google Adword functions were summarized does
not find place in the order of the Tribunal nor the material was brought to
the notice of the appellant, meaning thereby some material collected
behind back of the appellant has been used by the Tribunal and the
material brought on record through proper application has not been
looked into. 18. The Madras High Court in similar circumstances, in the case of
Ramco Industries Ltd., (supra) in paragraphs 5 to 10 has held as under; 19. In the considered opinion of this Court, keeping in view Rule 29 of the
Income Tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963 and also keeping in view the
fact that the material on the basis of which the order has been passed was
not furnished to the appellant at any point time, the order passed by the
Tribunal is certainly violative of principles of natural justice and fair play
as the appellant was not afforded an opportunity to rebut fresh evidence
especially when such evidence was based on Google study. \ 20. Another important aspect of the case is that details of the material has
also not been reflected in the order passed by the Tribunal and therefore,
this Court is of the opinion that as there is a violation of principles of
natural justice and fair play, the matter deserves to be remanded back to
the Tribunal for hearing it afresh in accordance with law. 21. In light of the aforesaid, the questions are answered in favour of the
assessee and against the revenue and the other questions are left open.
Accordingly, the appeal in ITA.No.879/2017 is allowed. The order passed 6 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. by the Tribunal is set aside. The matter is remanded back to the Tribunal
 for fresh adjudication in accordance with law. 22. The parties will appear before the Tribunal on 3.5.2021 and within a
 period of 15 days the appellant shall be free to file the
 documents/additional documents in support of his contentions and the
 revenue shall also be free to file documents/additional submissions in
 support of their contentions. In case any other material is being relied
 upon by the Tribunal, the same shall also be made available to the
 assessee/appellant as well as to the counsel for revenue before passing a
 final order. The Tribunal is requested to make all possible endeavour to
 decide the matter at an earlier date. 23. In light of the order passed in ITA.No.879/2017, the connected appeals
 i.e., ITA.Nos.882/2017, 883/2017, 897/2017, 898/2017 and 899/2017 are
 also allowed and the order passed by the Tribunal is set aside and all the
 matters are remanded back to the Tribunal to decide the appeals afresh in
 accordance with law." 2. Pursuant to the Hon'ble High Court's judgment, the
cases was finally heard on 13.09.2022. The brief facts of the
case are recapitulated hereunder. 3. The assessee (Google India Private Limited) (GIPL) is a
company engaged in the business of providing Information
Technology (IT) and Information Technology Enabled Services
(ITES) to its group companies. Further, the assessee also acts
as a distributor for Adwords Programme in India. The
companies activities are classified into the following
segments:- 4. The assessee had entered into Google AdWords Program
Distribution Agreement dated 12.12.2005 with Google Ireland
Limited (GIL). As per the agreement, the assessee was
appointed as a non-exclusive distributor of AdWords
programme to the advertisers in India. The distribution fees
paid by the assessee to Google Ireland as per the agreement
for the relevant assessment years are as under:- 5. The Assessing Officer [Deputy Director (International
Transaction)] initiated proceedings u/s 201(1) and 201(1A) of
the I.T.Act in respect of the above payments made by the
assessee to Google Ireland Limited, since, no tax was
deducted at source u/s 195 of the I.T.Act. The A.O. called for
and examined various details and documents. The statement
of the Director of Indian operation and Director (Sales) 8 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. relating to the business carried on under the distribution
agreement and the service agreement were recorded. The
relevant extracts from these recorded statements are
reproduced below:- Ans: Advertisers upload Ads which resides in data centers
 outside of India and these Ads are reviewed in accordance
 with Google Policies. 94% of these Ads are automatically
 review by the system. 6% of these Ads comes from manual
 review which is done through a proprietary web application
 (Approval Bin) by the Ad Reviews Team. The Ad review
 team consists of 100 Google employees and 200 vendor
 employees, they are graduates from various colleges in India. Q4. Explain the process of use of Approval Bin by the Ad
 review Team? Ans: The Manager of the Ad review team after identification
 of the team members sends request for creation of the user
 id's to Google Ireland. Once the access is created the Ad
 Review Team member can see the Ad in the interface and post
 review conclude whether the Ad is in accordance with the
 Google policies. The Ad review team member can see the Ad
 i.e hosted out of data centers outside of India and the review
 is updated again to the Ad in the data center. The Ad Review outsourcing function is carried out for all global
 customers including India. This team handles all the
 customers across the world and with a small team in the
 Dub/in, China, Japan, Korea handling specific language Ads. The reviewer reads the Ad texts and checks the URL and
 checks the landing page of the Advertiser and then updates
 the status regarding the compliance in the web application. The policy guidelines are framed by the global legal team in 9 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. California and Dublin. Information regarding these guidelines
are disseminated using the Approval Bin and also through
training. Q5 : Explain the process of outsourced help desk? Ans: When an advertiser has any issue related to Ad words,
he can call, write an e-mail or chat with a representative of the
help desk team. This support is provided from some of the
global English advertisers. We have a team of around 150
Google employees and 40 vendor employees and they are
graduates from various colleges in India. The team guides the
advertiser to access the right information or helps him to
resolve the issue. This is carried out by internal web
application (gcases and ICS). The Manager of the help desk
team after identification of the team members sends request
for creation of the user id's to Google Ireland. Once the access
the created, the help desk team member can see the
Advertiser issues in Advertiser's account hosted in the data
center through the interface. The process of trouble shooting for issues related to Adwords
is a global process and training for the same is provided
locally through various means (video conferencing
with teams in Ireland and US and web based). It is clarified that the support / customer services for the
accounts managed by the sales team of GIPL is handled by
them only using ICS and the remaining ie. Self Signup
Advertisers are serviced by the Help desk. Q6: Explain the process of outsourced Business Analytics?
Ans: The outsourced Business Analytics analysis the
performance of the advertiser accounts and market trends
and provides the same to the account management team. This
service is provided for global English account management
team (sales team) of us, UK And Australia base on the request
and on the criteria given by them. For example, for a global
Advertiser if he has concerns on clicks on his website he
approaches the Account Management Team which in turn
sends the request to the Business Analytics team. So the
Business Analytics team analyses the Account Performance
and gets back to the Account Management Team with a
report. The analyses could be either of the following: M/s.Google India Private Limited. his website, he raises the issue with the Account Management
Team of that country and he in turn sends the request to the
Business Analytics Team. The Business Analytics Team
analyses the reason which could involve issues related to key
words, budget, bids, quality score etc. For example, if there is
a low quality score, the team looks into the following aspects: The above instances in the case of Advertisers located in India
are handled by the Accounts Management Team (Sales Team)
of GIPL. This is not provided for India Account Management Team
(Sales Team). I understand that it is performed by the India
Account Management Team themselves. The Business Analytics team constitutes of 300 graduates
and MBAs. The Manager of the team identifies the team
members and request for access to Google Ireland. Then
the team accesses an internal web application called GRM
(Internal Google CRM application) to generate reports based on
which they perform their analysis. The Business Analytics
team accesses the Advertiser's account hosted in the data
center through the interface. The account management team
also uses the same application for the accounts managed by
them. Q7: How is the deliverable of the outsourced Business
Analytics team used by the Account Management Team (Sales
team)? Ans:- The deliverable is used by the Sales team for a)To understand the performance of Ad Campaigns run by the
Advertisers b)To optimize the performance of the Ad campaigns

Q 9 Explain the process of Adword Distribution by GIPL.?
Ans: Even though I am not responsible for AdWord
Distribution by GIPL, my understanding of the AdWord
Distribution process is as follows: M/s.Google India Private Limited. 95% of the total number of Advertiser's from India) and
managed accounts (balance 5% through the sales team of
GIPL. b)All Advertisers put up their Ads through a web interface c)The Ads are hosted in the serves / data center situated
outside of India d)For the 95% self sign up GIPL's role is limited to invoicing
and collections and support if there is an issue raised by the
Advertiser. e)For the balance 5% managed accounts, GIPL interfaces with
the Advertiser's and sells Ads space for display and also
invoicing, collection and support issues The Account Manager
is responsible for a set of accounts and provides post sale
support for those accounts. (f) Any self sign up Advertiser qualifies for an Account
Management Support after they spend above a certain
threshold. The threshold is determined by the country finance
team. Q 15: Clarify whether the confidential information. Intellectual
Property, software technology, documentation of Google
Ireland is used by GIPL ITES division in carrying out the
activities as per the services agreement? Ans : Yes. the ITES division of GIPL is allowed to use the
confidential information Intellectual Property. software
technology, documentation of Google Ireland to carry out the
activities as per the Services agreement. The examples are: Sworn Statement of Sri Vikas Agnihorti, Director Sales

Q 6: Once the customer agrees to use Google Adwords
program how does he get initiated into using the program
Ans: The customer has to agree to the terms and conditions as
specified in the account opening/registration process which is
online. However, in the case of large clients, at times, credit
facility for payment terms towards his consumption of the
Adwords program is extended, in such specific cases an
additional contract is Signed between GIP L and the customer. Q7. What are the tools used by the sales team for marketing
and distribution of Adwords Program 12 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Ans: GIPL sales team uses cross section of information which
is through primary and secondary research proprietary or
available in the market. In addition it uses Google
Online tools such as Google Trends, Google Adwords for
Keywords and in cases where the customer uses Google
Analytics in such case the sales team also uses Google
Analytic tool. All the Adword related tools used by the sales
team. are available online free of cost on the web. In reference
to the above the tools that are publicly available
irrespective of the user being an advertiser are Google Trends.
Google Adwords for Keywords and knowledge around the
Adwords policies and the framework there in. For advertiser
having a Adwords account the user have access to the Google
Analytics too. and within that options like bid optimizer for
running his campaigns efficiently. Q 8: Explain the structure in the GIPL Sales team
Ans: In GIPL customers are classified into three sub-
categories; large clients (LCS), small and medium business
(SMB). and the long tail set of self service customers. In the
case of LCS, the sales process as discussed above. In case of
5MB another team manager a larger act of accounts on similar
lines of LCS and in the case of long tail clients, the client
manage end to end themselves or may take the help of the
calf center. Q 9: In reference to contract with customer Clause 2 of the
contract sub-part as stated "Customer grants Google
permission to utilize and automated Software program to
retrieve and analysis websites associated with the services
for ad quality and serving purposes, unless customer
specifically opts out of the evaluation in a manner specified
by Google ". What is the program utilized by Google for the
above. Ans: The tool used in the applicable cases is Google
Analytics and the same is available online. The same can be
access by people who have been given user id and passwords
by the respective customer. Q 10: Under what conditions and circumstances a ad is
disabled and what are the tools used for the same: 6. Show cause notice dated 8.2.2013 was issued
proposing to treat the above payments as Royalty under the
Act and the DTAA. Vide reply letter dated 15.2.2013 the
assessee explained that the above payments are not in the
nature of 'royalty' under the Act and India - Ireland DTAA
and is in the nature of advertisement fees. The AO, however,
rejected the contentions of the assessee and passed the order
under section 201(1) & 201(lA) dated 22.2.2013 for the AY
2007-08 to AY 2012-13. (for A.Y. 2007-2008 , A.Y. 2008-
2009, the Tribunal had disposed off the case on 10.08.2022
on short ground that the orders passed u/s 201(1) and
201(1A) of the I.T.Act for A.Y. 2007-2008 and 2008-2009 are
barred by limitation). The gist of A.O.'s finding are as
follows: M/s.Google India Private Limited. under Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the I.T.Act. (ii) In para II, the AO concluded that the assessee has
been granted license to sell or make offer for sale of
Adwords program by Google Ireland by virtue of the
distribution agreement and the same is a copyright
within the purview of section 14(b)(ii) of the Indian
Copyright Act. It was held that the sums payable by
assessee to Google Ireland are covered by clause (v) to
Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi) of the I.T.Act and
hence 'royalty'. (iii) In part III, the AO held that the assessee has been
granted the use of or right to use trademarks and other
brand features owned by Google Ireland for the purpose
of distribution of Adwords program and consequently
the sums payable to Google Ireland are royalty under
clause (i), (ii) and (iii) of Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the I.T.Act. (iv) In part IV, the AO held that the assessee is
granted the use of right to use the 'process' in the
Adwords platform for the purpose of marketing and
distribution. Therefore, clause (i), (ii) and (iii) of
Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the I.T.Act are
satisfied and hence amounts payable to Google Ireland
are taxable under section 9(l)(vi) of the I.T.Act. (v) In part V, the AO held that in the process of
authorizing the assessee to distribute Adwords 17 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. program, know how has also been imparted to
assessee. It was held that imparting of training,
knowledge, experience and skill to assessee's staff by
GIL, sharing of confidential information, results in
impart of knowhow for the purpose of marketing, sales
of adword programs, maintenance of adword accounts,
after sales service, billing etc. Hence, it was held that
the sums payable to GIL are covered by clause (iii) and (iv) to Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the I.T.Act. (vi) In Part VI of the order, it was held that grant of
distribution rights involves use of industrial,
commercial and scientific equipment as the assessee is
allowed to access the Adwords platform running on
servers for various purposes. According to AO, Adwords
platform is similar to a portal running on servers,
based on the search engine technology of Google and
therefore a commercial cum scientific equipment.
Without having access to the servers running the
Adwords platform, assessee cannot perform its
functions as per the distribution agreement. Hence, it
was held that the distribution right also includes the
right to use the industrial, commercial or scientific
equipment which are the servers. (vii) In part VII of the order, it was held that as per Article 12 of the India - Ireland DT AA, the payments to
GIL is for use of or right to use a copyright right under section 14 of the Indian copyright Act and hence the 18 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. payments are in the nature of royalty under the DT AA. (viii) & (ix) In part VIII and IX, the AO discussed the
 issue of retrospective amendments to Finance act 2012
 not affecting the DTAA and other decisions relied on by
 the assessee. (x) In Part X of the Act , the AO concluded that the
 sums payable under the distribution agreement to GIL
 are for the (a) right to sell or right to offer for sale
 adwords program, (b) use of or right to use various
 IP rights (process, trademarks, brand features,
 copyright, know how) in adwords program and (c) use
 of or right to use industrial, commercial or scientific
 equipment. The AO thus concluded that such sums are
 covered by the definition of Royalty under the I.T.Act
 and the DTAA. 7. Aggrieved by the order passed u/s 201(1) and 201(1A)
of the I.T.Act, the assessee filed appeals before the first
appellate authority. The CIT(A) vide order dated 20.9.2013
confirmed the findings of the AO with regard to right
to use intellectual property as well as trademark and
copyright. The action of the AO in holding that the
distribution fees is actually consideration received for the
right to use/ license to use a computer program/process i.e.,
Adwords program was upheld. However, CIT(A) held that the
assessee cannot be said to have gained right to use any
scientific equipment since Google Ireland has not parted 19 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. with the copyright it holds in the Adwords program and
hence it cannot be said that any kind of technical knowhow
has been transferred to the assessee company. The CIT(A)
was not in agreement with the AO on the above issue
without prejudice to his view in holding that the remitted
amount is royalty on different grounds. The CIT(A) also
confirmed that Google Ireland rendered services to enable
the assessee company to market and distribute the Adwords
program. The CIT(A) consequently dismissed all the appeals. 8. Aggrieved by the order of the CIT(A), the assessee has
filed the present appeals before the Tribunal. The assessee
has filed multiple paper books serially numbered (running
into 3201 pages) enclosing therein the case laws relied on,
the adword program agreement dated 12.12.2005,
distribution and service agreement dated 01.04.2004 entered
by the assessee with Google Ireland Limited, the show cause
notices issued by the A.O. and the assessee's response,
submissions made in the earlier round of litigation, etc. The
learned Senior Counsel Sri.Percy Pardiwala appearing for the
assessee, at the very outset, submitted that the issue in
question is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the
following orders of the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal:- M/s.Google India Private Limited. 4. Play Games 24X7 Private Limited v. DCIT, [ITA 1533/Mum/2019,
 decision dated 23.03.2022 (ITAT - Mumbai)], 5. Myntra Designs Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT, [ITA 598/Bang/2020, decision dated
 03.09.2021 (ITAT - Bengaluru)], 6. Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT, [ITA
 615/Bang/2020, decision dated 17.08.2021 (ITAT - Bengaluru)], 7. Inception Business Services v. ITO, [ITA 2674/Chny/2016 , decision
 dated 18.02.2019 (ITAT - Chennai)], 8. ITO v. Right Florists Pvt. Ltd. , (2013) SCC OnLine ITAT 6870 (ITAT - Kolkata), 9. Pinstorm Technologies (P.) Ltd. v. ITO , (2012) 54 SOT 78 (ITAT - Mumbai), 10. Yahoo India (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT , (2011) 140 TTJ 195 (ITAT - Mumbai). 9. It was submitted that in the above cases, the Tribunal
had held that for purchase of online advertisement space
cannot be characterized as "royalty" and hence, the same are
not chargeable to tax in India, in the absence of PE of the
non-resident in India. Further, it was contended that the
entire case of the Revenue heavily hinges upon the following
judicial pronouncements while characterizing the subject
payments to be royalty being payments made for the "use of" New Delhi). 10. It is submitted that the above judicial pronouncements
relied on by the Revenue has been specifically overruled by
the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Engineering Analysis 21 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Centre of Excellence Private Limited v. CIT & Anr. reported in
(2021) 432 ITR 471 (SC). It was contended by the learned AR
that since the DTAA between India and Ireland overrides the
definition under the Income-tax Act , the phrase "similar
property" being absent in the definition of "royalty" as
provided under the DTAA, the entire reasoning and
discussion in the impugned order of the A.O. and the CIT(A)
to the extent of analysis around distribution right being
classified as "similar property" is to be rendered redundant.
The learned AR further took us through various clauses of
adword programme distribution agreement dated 12.12.2005,
the service agreement dated 01.04.2004 to explain the factual
background of Google Adword Programme and online
Advertisement Review Process (ITeS services) and further it
was explained how the A.O. and the CIT(A) has erroneously
interlinked the services agreement and the distribution
agreement. 11. The learned Standing Counsel, on the other hand,
argued that on perusal of the various clauses of the adword
program distribution agreement and service agreement, the
substance over the form must be seen and the same needs to
be interlinked. It was contended that the note of assessee
under the distribution agreement does not end with the
uploading of online advertisement. It was stated that the
obligation of assessee under the distribution agreement,
including after sales customers support, necessarily entails
use of IPR's, which was provided by Google Ireland under the 22 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. service agreement. For this purpose, the learned Standing
Counsel placed reliance on various clauses of the distribution
agreement and the service agreement. Further, it was
contended that the assessee received confidential information
from Google Ireland Limited under the adword program
service agreement, which was in turn used by the assessee
for carrying out its obligation under the distribution
agreement, and therefore, the payment made by the assessee
to Google Ireland Limited under the distribution agreement
tantamount to royalty. It was further argued by the learned
Standing Counsel by placing reliance on book written by
Benjamin Mangold that online advertisement space through
the Google Adwords Programme enabled targeting of
advertisement using IPR received by the assessee under the
service agreement. In essence, this argument again focused
on interlink of distribution agreement and service agreement.
It was also argued that the material on working of Google
AdWord Programme available online was also in consonance
with the content of the above said book and in that manner it
was contended that the payment in question must be
characterized as royalty. The learned Standing Counsel also
argued that the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private
Limited v. CIT & Anr. (supra) was distinguished since it dealt
with copyright alone. It was argued that since the assessee in
the present case was obliged to carry out after-sales services
for which it was granted IPRs under the Service Agreement,
the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of 23 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited v.
CIT & Anr. (supra), especially the classic "book" example
contained therein, did not apply. The learned Standing
Counsel has given the brief written submission in essence
reiterating the findings of the A.O. 12. In the rejoinder, the learned Senior Counsel, specifically
rebutted the contentions raised by the learned Standing
Counsel and has also filed a written submission with
reference to the arguments raised by him. 13. We have heard rival submissions and perused the
material on record. The issues involved in these appeals
revolve around the taxability of payments received by GIL
from the assessee, who is engaged in the business of online
advertisement space to advertisers in India. The Revenue had
sought to characterize these payments received by GIL to be
royalty as defined in section 9(1)(vi) of the I.T.Act r.w. Article
12(3) of the India-Ireland Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement (India-Ireland DTAA) and thus chargeable to tax in
India in the hands of GIL. The case of the assessee is that the
said payments are in the nature of business profits, which
are chargeable to tax in Ireland and not in India. Further,
since the Department in these proceedings has never alleged
that GIL had a Permanent Establishment (PE) in India in
terms of Article 5 and accordingly by virtue of Article 7(1) of
the India-Ireland DTAA, the right to tax these profits is solely
with Ireland. Consequently, the assessee cannot be held to be 24 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. an assessee in default u/s 201 of the I.T.Act for not
deducting tax at source u/s 195 of the I.T.Act while making
the subject payment to GIL. 14. For a proper adjudication of the above issue, it is
necessary to briefly explain / examine the overview of the
Google Adword Program, the role of the assessee under
Adword Program distribution agreement and the service
agreement (ITES). The undisputed fact on record is that
Google.com is a search engine developed by Google LLC, USA
available freely to the world at large providing information on
any subject based on the search made by the user. The link
to various websites related to the search are provided in the
search result. Additionally, Google LLC, USA has also
developed a computerised advertising program known as
Google AdWords Program. Google Ireland Ltd (GIL) is the
exclusive licensee and principal operator of the
computerised advertising program i.e., "Google AdWords
Program" for the whole world outside the USA. The Google
AdWords program displays advertisements on Google's search
engine. It has a separate website in which the advertisers
have to agree to certain terms and conditions including the
consideration payable for the targeted Advertisements and
provide appropriate keywords on searching of which the
websites of the advertisers would be displayed on top of the
Google search engine with the abbreviation "Ad". For
instance, pursuant to the search query "Fresh Flower
Delivery", website of "Ferns N Petals" is listed two times 25 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. among websites of various other businesses. The listing of the
website of "Ferns N Petals" at the top of the list is a sponsored
link accompanied by a small abbreviation "Ad", and the other
listing is an organic search result as it does not have any
such abbreviation. [Page 318 of paper book 1] This is
because, "Ferns N Petals" utilised the "Google AdWords
Program" to advertise its business on the Google Search
Engine. The targeting of advertisement is achieved by using
appropriate keywords, which can be selected only by the
Advertiser. The Google AdWords Program contains a glossary
of keywords together with helpful suggestions for the
Advertiser to select appropriate keywords for his targeted
advertisement. Google AdWords Program also contains a
number of computer commands, by which the proposed
Advertiser can achieve a more focused and particularised
targeting, such as geographical or area targeting
(advertisement to be shown only in a particular area, say the
State of Karnataka) or period targeting (advertisement to be
shown only in a certain period) or time targeting
(advertisement to be shown only at certain fixed times during
the day) or duration targeting (to be shown only for a fixed
time duration each time). All these types of targeting are over
and above the usual subject targeting and are achieved by
simple computer commands, given by the proposed
Advertiser on the Google AdWords Program. All these facilities
are available on the Google AdWords Program to any member
of the public, free of charge, to enable him to formulate a
suitable draft advertisement for his product or service. The 26 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. only requirement is that the proposed Advertiser should have
a website of his own / or entity giving particulars about his/
its business. The Google AdWords Program itself gives step-
by-step and detailed instructions, so that even a person who
has a basic knowledge of computers and internet can create a
draft advertisement and target it suitably by using the
necessary computer commands (or tools). No payment is
made for any use of the Google AdWords Program. After
formulating the draft advertisement, the Advertiser is
required to upload the same for display on Google Search
Engine or other online properties using the Google AdWords
Program. No payment is made for the same. Thereafter, the
proposed advertisement is stored on the servers of Google
Ireland Ltd (GIL) located outside India for undergoing a review
process. 15. The review process is undertaken by GIL for
advertisements uploaded by Advertisers from all around the
world including India. Approximately 94% of global
advertisements are reviewed by GIL through its automated
system located outside India. Remaining global
advertisements, which are not successfully reviewed by the
automated system, are subjected to a manual review. For
carrying out manual review, the balance 6% (approx.) global
advertisements are forwarded to one of service centres of
GIL's group entities, located in USA, Dublin, China, Korea,
Japan, and India. An advertisement in English by an Indian
Advertiser may go for manual review to any of these service 27 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. centres. These service centres carry out the activity of manual
review on a cost-plus basis. The assessee also carries out this
activity under the ITES segment as per the services
agreement dated 1.4.2004 entered into with GIL. The relevant
terms and conditions of this agreement are as under: control or management of either party or is under common 28 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. ownership with a party to this Agreement or other entity
actually controlled by, controlling. or under common control
with a party to this Agreement. 1.2 "Confidential Information' shall mean all data and
information of a confidential nature, Including know-how and
trade secrets, relating to the business, the affairs, the
products. the development or other projects or services of
Google Ireland or its-suppliers or its affiliate. including but not
limited to Intellectual Property. Confidential Information may
be communicated orally, in writing. or in any other recorded,
electronic or tangible form. Data and information shall be
considered to be Confidential Information if (i) Google Ireland
has marked them as such; (ii) Google Ireland, orally or in
writing, has advised Google India of their confidential nature;
or (iii) due to their character or nature, a reasonable person in
a like position and under like circumstances would treat them
as secret and confidential. Confidential Information does not
include information: (i) that is in the public domain through no
fault of the receiving party, (ii) that was previously known by
receiving party, as established by written records of the
receiving party prior to receipt of such information from the
providing party or (iii) that was lawfully obtained by the
receiving party from a third party without any obligations of
confidentiality to Google Ireland. 1.3 "Derivative works Work" shall mean (i) for copyrightable or
copyrighted material, any modification. derivative works work
(as defined in 17 USC. §101), translation, abridgment,
revision or other form in which such material may be recast,
transformed or adapted, (ii) for patentable or patented
material, any improvement thereon. and (iii) for material
protected by trade secret, any new material derived from such
existing trade secret material, including new material which
may be protected to copyright, patent and/or trade secret.
1.4 "Documentation" shall mean any and all information,
written or otherwise, provided by Goode Ireland to Google
India describing the Intellectual Property or the Products and
any updated, improved or modified version(s) of such
materials including information contained in published written
materials, on magnetic media or communicated by electronic
means. 1.5 "intellectual Property' shall mean all intellectual,
proprietary, and/or intangible property rights constituting,
embodied in. pertaining to, used in or with respect to the
business of Google Ireland, the Products, or the provision of
related services and all tangible embodiments hereof, 29 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. wherever located, including but not limited to the following: (i)
all trademarks, trade names, service marks, logos or trade
dress, including all registrations and applications therefor; (ii)
all copyrights. Moral Rights (as defined below), and other
rights in works of authorship including all registrations and
applications therefor; (iii) all patents and patent applications.
patentable Ideas, Inventions, innovations and improvements; (iv) all know-how and trade secrets; v) all design and code
documentation, methodologies, processes, design information,
design flows, encoding techniques, applications, product
information. Formulae, engineering specifications, technical
data, testing procedures, drawings and techniques and other
proprietary information and materials of any kind; (vi) all
software programs in both source code and object code
format. including all testing software and software tools: (vii)
all documentation, records, databases, drafts, designs, codes,
drawings and algorithms: and (viii) all confidential and
proprietary information related to any of (i) through (vii) above

**** **** ******

1.10 "Software Embodiments" shall mean all designs,
discoveries, inventions. Products. procedures, improvements,
developments, drawings, notes, Documentation. information.
materials, Intellectual Property and Derivative works Works
made, conceived or developed by Google India alone or with
others which result from or relate to the Services
1.11 "Software Technology" shall mean all Intellectual
Property, Confidential Information, Documentation, Derivative
works Works and other technical data used by Google Ireland
that are required, used or appropriate for the design and
development of Products. including the reproduction, use,
testing, operation, maintenance and service of such Products. 2.1 Request Google India hereby agrees to perform certain
information technology, information technology enabled
services and software development services, as requested by
Google Ireland from time to time, with respect to Products,
utilizing Google Ireland Software Technology and other
appropriate technology from Google Ireland or third parties
which may be properly used for these purposes. Google
Ireland will specify the information technology, information
technology enabled services and software development
services to be performed, the Products to be worked on or
used, the time line for completion and the specific results to
be achieved (the Services"). IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. 2.2 Performance. Upon agreement between Google Ireland and
Google India as to the Services and completion date for a
particular Services project, Google India will perform the
Services. Google India agrees to use commercially reasonable
efforts to perform the Services in a timely fashion and as
described to it by Google Ireland. Google India may not
subcontract work under this Agreement unless specifically
and to the extent set forth in the Services. Google India shall,
at all times, be responsible for work done by its
subcontractors within the scope of this Agreement as it is for
work done by its own employees. At the option of Google
Ireland, Google India shall make Goggle Ireland a party to the
agreements that Google India may execute with its
subcontractors and Google Ireland shall have the right to pre-
approve the terms and conditions of such agreements

**** **** ****** 5. OWNERSHIP
5.1 Intellectual Property. Google India acknowledges the
exclusive right. title and interest of Google Ireland and its
licensors and/or suppliers in and to any and all Confidential
Information, Intellectual Property, Software Technology and
Documentation, and Google India will not at any time do or
cause to be done any act or thing impairing or tending to
impair any part of said right, title and interest. Google India
acknowledges and agrees that all such Confidential
Information, Intellectual Property, Software Technology and
Documentation shall remain the exclusive property of Google
Ireland and, as applicable, its licensors and/or
suppliers. 5. 2 Ownership of Derivative works Works and Software
Embodiments. Google India shall keep Google Ireland
promptly informed of Google India's development of any
Derivative works Works and Software Embodiments and
hereby irrevocably agrees that all such Derivative works
Works and Software Embodiments shall forever be the sole
and exclusive property of Google Ireland throughout the world
from the date of its creation. As between Google Ireland
and Google India no additional action shall be required to vest
all right, title and ownership of such Derivative works Works
and Software Embodiments in Google Ireland. Google India
shall furnish to Google Ireland all such Derivative works
Works and Software Embodiments developed by Google India
as soon as they become available. From time to-time, promptly
upon receipt of Google Ireland's request, Google India shall
provide Google Ireland with assignments, in substantially the 31 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. form of Exhibit B hereto to facilitate Google Ireland's perfection
of its rights in the Derivative works Works and the Software
Embodiments in any jurisdiction in the world. Google India
shall also promptly make available to Google Ireland all
Residuals. If Google India has any rights to Derivative works
Works or Software Embodiments that cannot be assigned to
Google Ireland under law. Google India hereby waives the
enforcement of such rights; and if Google India has any rights
which cannot be assigned or waived under law, Google India
hereby grants to Google Ireland an exclusive, irrevocable,
perpetual, worldwide, transferable, folly paid licence, with
rights to sub license and assign, to all such rights. Google
India shall enter into agreements with its Representatives
sufficient to permit Google India to make the foregoing grant of
rights. ****** ****** ***** 6. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

6.1 Access and Use of Confidential Information. During the
course of performance of this Agreement, Google Ireland will
disclose certain Confidential Information to Google India
solely to permit Google India to perform its obligations under
this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement, Google India agrees that such Confidential
Information shall be kept secret by Google India during the
term of this agreement and after the expiration hereof Google
India shall refrain from using or exploiting any and all
Confidential Information for any purposes or activities other
than those contemplated in this Agreement. 6.2 Agreement Not to Disclose Confidential Information.
Google India shall not disclose or facilitate disclosure of such
Confidential Information to any Person without the prior
consent of Google Ireland, except to its Representatives, and
then only to the extent necessary for the performance of the
activities contemplated by this Agreement. Google India shall
cause each of its Representatives with access to the
Confidential Information to enter into a nondisclosure
agreement in a form approved by Google Ireland. Google India
shall use the highest standard of care currently employed by
any developer or distributor of high technology products in
order to avoid disclosure or misappropriation of such
Confidential Information. 6.3 Ownership and Return of Confidential Information. All
files, lists, records. documents, drawings, specifications, 32 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. equipment and computer programs which incorporate or refer
 to all or a portion of the Confidential Information shall remain
 the sole property of Go ogle Ireland or its licensors and
 suppliers. Such materials shall be promptly returned: (i) upon
 Google Ireland's reasonable request, or (ii) in accordance with Section 12 upon termination of this Agreement, whichever is
 earlier. **** ********* ******

 12.5 Rights and Duties of Termination. (a) Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement: assessee, whereunder the assessee was appointed as a non-
exclusive distributor of online advertisement space in India In
terms thereof, the assessee set up its "Distribution Segment" NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the
mutual covenants, agreements, representations and
warranties hereinafter set forth, Google and Distributor
hereby agree as follows 1. Definitions. The following capitalized terms shall have the
meanings set forth below. 1.1 ''Advertiser'' means an individual or business resident or
having its principal place of business located within the
Territory (as defined herein), where principal place of business
is determined by the place of an entity's registration.
1.2 ''AdWords Program" means the advertising program
currently offered by Google under the name ''AdWords.''
1.3 "Brand Features" means the trade names. trademarks,
service marks, logos, domain names, and other distinctive
brand features of each party, respectively, as secured by such
party from time to time. 1.4 "Designated Contact" means those contacts designated by
each party as the point of contact or contacts for a particular
function area related to this Agreement. 1.5 "Google Brand Features" means the Google trade names,
trademarks, service marks, logos, domain names, and other
distinctive brand features, with some but not all examples at 35 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. 2.1 Appointment of Territory. Google appoints Distributor as a
non-exclusive authorized Distributor of Go ogle AdWords
Program to Advertisers, all under and in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Distributor
shall conduct its business for its own account, in its own
name, aid not as an agent, employee, partner, or franchisee of
Google. Distributor may not solicit business from and shall not
distribute AdWords Program to (even if unsolicited), any entity
that does not have a principal place of business within the
Territory. For the avoidance of doubt, an entity's principal
place of business will be determined by the place of such
entity's registration. All inquiries by any such entity for sale of
advertising space shall be referred to the designated Google
contact within three (3) business days of receipt by
Distributor of such inquiry. 2.2 Distribution & Marketing of AdWords Program. Distributor
agrees to market and distribute AdWords Program to
Advertisers in the designated Territory. within the broad
guidelines provided by Google, with its reasonable commercial 36 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. expertise and own sales force and customer service
infrastructure. Distributor shall not subcontract any of its
functions or obligations under this Agreement to any third
parties. Distributor shall perform its obligations hereunder in a
professional and workmanlike manner consistent with
reasonably applicable industry standards and in accordance
with this Agreement. Distributor will distribute AdWords
Program in accordance with the training provided by Google.
Failure to do so would constitute a material breach of this
Agreement and shall be grounds for termination under section
9 .3. 2.3 AdWords Program Sign Up Process. Distributor shall be
responsible for uploading all Advertiser information that is
required by Google for participation in the AdWords Program.
2.4 Licences; Approvals. Distributor shall be responsible for
obtaining all licences and permits and for satisfying all
formalities as may be required to enter into this Agreement
and to perform its obligations in accordance with then-
prevailing laws and regulations, including without limitation
those necessary to enable Distributor to make payments to
Google in US dollars. Distributor will promptly secure all
governmental approvals as may be required in the Territory or
performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
2.5 Compliance with United States and Other Applicable Law;
Conduct of Business. Distributor will comply with all United
States and local laws and regulations applicable to the
distributor of the goods and services. including but not limited
to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and US regulations of
international boycotts. Distributor shall (a) conduct business in
a manner that reflects favorably at all times on the AdWords
Program and on Google's goodwill and reputation, and (b)
agrees to adhere to the minimum levels of service as specified
in Exhibit C. Breach of this Section 2 . 5 will constitute a
material breach of this Agreement. 2. 6 After-Sales Support. Distributor will provide after-sales
services to Advertisers in accordance with the broad
instructions, training and standards of Google. 3. Google Obligations. 3.1 Advertising Space. Google agrees to provide advertising
space through the AdWords Program for distribution by
Distributor to Advertisers as set forth herein. 3.2 Training. Google agrees to train Distributor. 3.3 Non-Exclusivity. This Agreement shall constitute a non- IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. exclusive relationship between Google and Distributor. ***** ***** ****** 5. Reporting Requirements. 5.1 Information Provided by Google. Google will make
available to Distributor online information about Advertiser
activity, on an aggregate and individual basis. which
information shall contain include (i) the total number of
Keywords purchased by Advertisers, (ii) the number of
impressions of Advertisers' advertisement delivered across the
Google network, (iii) the number of clicks delivered across the
Google network for Advertisers' advertisement an (iv) the cost
of clicks delivered across the Google network for Advertisers'
advertisement. Distributor must set up AdWords Program
advertising accounts in order to receive such online
information. Google reserves the right, but has no obligation,
to send reports about an Advertiser's activity directly to such
Advertiser. If an Advertiser makes a request to Distributor
to receive a user name and password to access such
Advertisers individual AdWords Program account activity,
Distributor' will grant such request after approval from Google. ***** ***** ****** 6. Brand features. Each party shall own all right, title and
interest, including without limitation all Intellectual Property
Rights, relating to its Brand Features. Google grants to
Distributor nonexclusive and non sub-licensable licence during
the Term to display Google Brand Features solely for the
purpose of Distributor's marketing and distribution of
AdWords Program under the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Distributor will submit all materials of any kind
containing the Brand Features) to Google for written approval
prior to release to the public. Furthermore, Distributor agrees
to adhere to Google's then-current Brand Features use
guidelines, and any content referenced or included therein,
which may be found at the following URL: 7. Confidentiality; Limitation on Public Announcements.
Disclosure of confidential and/or proprietary information
disclosed hereunder, including the User Data (including any
aggregated User Data), the existence and content of this
Agreement, and any information provided pursuant to this
Agreement, shall be governed by the Google Standard Mutual
Non-Disclosure Agreement (introductory paragraph and Sections 1 through 12, inclusive), executed by the parties prior
to or concurrently with this Agreement (the "NDA ''), which is
attached hereto as Exhibit B, and which is incorporated by
reference herein. Each party acknowledges and agrees that it
will obtain the other party's prior written approval, which shall
include approval of any proposed text, before making any
public announcements or communication, including, but not
limited to, any press releases, online publishing or direct
mailings concerning or related to the existence or terms of this
Agreement. In addition. Distributor agrees to waive all claims
against and release Google (and its affiliates, partners and
representatives) from any claims or losses in connection with
any above publications made by Google. 8. User Data. Google owns all right, title, and interest in and
to all information and data, including the User Data collected
by Google relating to Advertisers in connection with the
provision of the AdWords Program. Distributor shall maintain
all User Data in accordance with local law and regulation
applicable to such data. and shall implement policies and
procedures with respect to the User Data that are at least as
protective of the rights of the Advertisers as is provided in the
Google Privacy Policy set forth at
http://wwvv.qoogle.comlprivacy.html and all relevant policies
implied therein

****** ****** ******

9.4 Effect of Termination. Upon any termination or expiration
of this Agreement, (i) all rights and licences granted by one
party to the other. including but not limited to rights to use the 39 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. other party's Brand Features shall cease immediately, (ii) each
party shall promptly return to the other party, or destroy and
certify the destruction of all Confidential Information as
defined in the NDA and Section 7 of this Agreement) of the
other party, and (iii) except for a termination pursuant to Section 9 .2 or Section 9 .3 above. Google will continue to serve
advertisements as provided in this Agreement up to the earlier
date to occur of (x) the date that the services provided by
Google exhaust any amounts prepaid by Distributor, or (y) the
date that is thirty (30) days after expiration or termination of
the Agreement. Termination or expiration of this Agreement. in
part or in whole. shall not limit either party from pursuing
other remedies available to it, nor shall Distributor be relieved
of its obligation to pay all charges that have accrued or are
otherwise owed under this Agreement. Termination of this
Agreement does not prevent Distributor from participating in
the AdWords Program pursuant to the general terms and
conditions made publicly available by Google from time to time
in its sole discretion. Distributor shall be solely responsible for providing all
customer services to Advertisers. according to the procedures,
and in compliance with standards, provided by Google. All
Advertisers shall be instructed by Distributor to contact
Distributor directly for support and not to communicate
directly with Google. Distributor agrees that it shall provide at least the following
minimum levels of service: Business hours phone support to
all Advertisers. E-mail queries from Advertisers shall be responded to within
one (1) business day with immediate resolution of any issues
when possible. Issues that cannot immediately be resolved by Distributor
based on training and procedures provided under the
Agreement must be communicated promptly to Google by
Distributor and Google will assist Distributor in determining
the best solution. Google agrees that it shall provide at least the following
minimum levels of service to Distributor: M/s.Google India Private Limited. disclosed by operation of law, court order or other
 governmental demand ("Process''); provided that (i) the
 Recipient shall immediately notify the Discloser of such
 Process; and (ii) the Recipient shall not produce or
 disclose Confidential Information in response to the Process
 unless the Discloser has: (a) requested protection from the
 legal or governmental authority requiring the Process and such
 request has been denied, (b) consented in writing to the
 production or disclosure of the Confidential Information in
 response to the Process, or (c) taken no action to protect its
 interest in the Confidential Information within 14 business
 days after receipt of notice from the Recipient of its obligation
 to produce or disclose confidential information in response to
 the Process

 ***** ***** ******* 11. No Party acquires any intellectual property rights under II
 Agreement (including, but not limited to, patent, copyright, and
 trademark rights) except the limited rights necessary to carry
 out the Purpose as forth in this Agreement. 12. Each Party acknowledges that damages for improper
 disclosure Confidential Information may be irreparable;
 therefore, the injured Party is entitled to seek equitable relief,
 including injunction and preliminary injunction, in addition to
 all other remedies available to it. 18. The standard agreement entered into between the
assessee and the advertisers is as under:- Customer signature
Name
Title
Company
Google Signature
Name 45 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Title
 Company." 19. The Standard Google India Private Limited Advertising
Program Terms are as under: services and landing pages which Creative links or directs
 viewers to, and advertised services and products 46 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. (collectively "Services"). Customer shall protect any Customer
passwords and takes full responsibility for Customer's own,
and third party, use of any Customer accounts. Ads may be
placed on (y) any content or property provided by Google
("Google Property"), and unless opted-out by Customer (z) any
other content or property provided by a third party ( "Partner")
upon which Google places ads ("Partner Property"). With
respect to Adwords online auction-based advertising, Google
may send Customer an email notifying Customer it has 72
hours ("Modification Period") to modify keywords and settings
as posted. The account (as modified by Customer otherwise
as initially posted) is deemed approved by Customer after the
Modification Period, and Google is only liable to Customer for
discrepancies if Customer can certify by contemporaneous
documentary evidence that Google posted ads not approved
by Customer. With respect to all other advertising, Customer
must provide Google with all relevant Creative by the due date
set forth in that advertising Program's applicable FAQ or as
otherwise communicated by Google. Customer grants Google
permission to utilize an automated software program to
retrieve and analyze websites associated with the Services for
ad quality and serving purposes, unless Customer specifically
opts out of the evaluation in a manner specified by Google.
Google or Partners may reject or remove any ad or Target any
time for any or no reason. Google may modify the Program or
these Terms at any time without liability and your use of the
Program after notice that Terms have changed indicates
acceptance of the Terms. 3. Cancellation. Customer may independently cancel
advertising itself online through Customer's account. if any, or,
if such online cancellation functionality is not available, with
prior written notice to Google, including electronic mail.
AdWords online auction-based advertising cancelled online
will cease serving upon cancellation. All other advertising may
be subject to Google's ability to re-schedule reserved inventory
or cancel advertisements already in production. Cancelled
advertisements may be published despite cancellation if
cancellation of those ads occurs after any applicable
commitment date as set forth in advance by the Partner or
Google in which case Customer must pay for those ads.
Google may cancel immediately any 10, any of its advertising
Programs, or these Terms at any time with notice, in which
case Customer will be responsible for any ads already run.
Google may modify any of its advertising Programs at any
time without liability. Sections I, 2, 3,5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 will
survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement. IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. 4. Prohibited Uses; License Grant; Representations and
Warranties. Customer shall not, and shall not authorize any
party to: (a) generate automated, fraudulent or otherwise
invalid impressions, inquiries, conversions, clicks or other
actions; (b) use any automated means or form of scraping or
data extraction to access, query or otherwise collect Google
advertising related information from any Adwords website or
property except as expressly permitted by Google; or (c)
advertise anything illegal or engage in any illegal or
fraudulent business practice. Customer represents and
warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google and
Partners all rights (including without limitation any copyright,
trademark, patent. publicity or other rights) in Creative.
Services and Targets needed for Google and Partner to
operate Google's advertising programs for Customer (including
without limitation any rights needed to host, cache, route,
transmit, store, copy, modify, distribute, perform. display,
reformat. excerpt, analyze, and create algorithms from and
derivative works of Creative or Targets) in connection with this
Agreement ("Use"). Customer represents and warrants that LV)
all Customer information is complete, correct and current; and
(z) any Use hereunder and Customer's Creative, Targets, and
Customer's Services will not violate or encourage violation of
any applicable laws, regulations, code of conduct, or third
party rights (including, without limitation, intellectual property
rights). Violation of the foregoing may result in immediate
termination of this Agreement or customer's account without
notice and may subject Customer to legal penalties and
consequences. 5. Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability. To the fullest extent
permitted by law. GOOGLE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION FOR NONINFRINGEMENT, SATISFACTORY
QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR ANY
PURPOSE. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Google
disclaims all guarantees regarding positioning or the levels or
timing of (i) costs per click, (ii) click through rates, (iii)
availability and delivery of any impressions, Creative,
or Targets on any Partner Property, Google Property, or section
thereof, (iv) clicks (v) conversions or other results for any ads
or Targets (vi) the accuracy of Partner data (e.g.
reach, size of audience, demographics or other purported
characteristics of audience), and (vii) the adjacency or
placement of advertisements within a Program. EXCEPT FOR
indemnification AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THIRD PARTIES
HEREUNDER AND CUSTOMER'S BREACHES OF SECTION 1,
to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) NEITHER PARTY 48 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL,
INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSS OF PROFITS,
REVENUE, INTEREST, GOODWILL, LOSS OR CORRUPTION
OF DATA OR FOR ANY LOSS OR INTERRUPTION TO
CUSTOMER'S BUSINESS) WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES
AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL
PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY; AND (b) EACH PARTY'S
AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO THE OTHER IS LIMITED TO
AMOUNTS PAID OR PAYABLE TO GOOGLE BY CUSTOMER
FOR THE AD GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. Except for
payment obligations, neither party is liable for failure or delay
resulting from a condition beyond the reasonable control of the
party, including but not limited to acts of God, government,
terrorism, natural disaster, labor conditions and power
failures. 6. Agency. Customer represents and warrants that (a) it is
authorized to act on behalf of and has bound to this
Agreement any third party for which Customer advertises (a
"Principal'') (b) as between Principals and Customer, the
Principal owns any rights to Program information in
connection with those advertisements, and (c) Customer shall
not disclose Principal's Program information to any other party
without Principal's consent. 7. Payment Customer shall be responsible for all charges up to
the amount of each 10, or as set in an online account, and
shall pay all charges in Indian Rupees or in such other
currency as agreed to in writing by the parties. Unless agreed
to by the parties in writing, Customer shall pay all charges in
accordance with the applicable 10 or Program FAQ. Late
payments bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or the
highest rate permitted by law, if less). Charges are exclusive
of taxes, cesses or other applicable levies. Customer is
responsible for paying (y) all applicable taxes, cesses and
levies, government charges, and (z) reasonable expenses and
attorneys fees Google incurs collecting late amounts. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, Customer waives all claims
relating to charges unless claimed within 60 days after the
charge (this does not affect Customer's credit card issuer
rights). Charges are solely based on Google's measurements
for the applicable Program, unless otherwise agreed
in writing. To the fullest extent permitted by law, refunds (if
any) are at the discretion of Google and only in the form of
advertising credit for only Google Properties. Nothing in these
Terms or an 10 may obligate Google to extend credit to any 49 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. party. Customer acknowledges and agrees that any credit
card and related billing and payment information that
Customer provides to Google may be shared by Google with
companies who work on Google's behalf, such as payment
processors and/or credit agencies, solely for the purposes of
checking credit, effecting payment to Google and servicing
Customer's account. Google may also provide information in
response to valid legal process, such as subpoenas, search
warrants and court orders, or to establish or exercise its legal
rights or defend against legal claims. Google shall
not be liable for any use or disclosure of such information by
such third parties. 8. Indemnification. Customer shall indemnify without limit and
defend Google, its Partners, agents, affiliates, and licensors
from any third party claim or liability (collectively, "Liabilities"),
arising out of Use, Customer's Program use, Targets, Creative
and Services and breach of the Agreement. Partners shall be
deemed third party beneficiaries of the above Partner
indemnity. Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
Customer shall indemnify Google against any Liabilities or
losses arising out of any claim based on any act or allegation
of infringement of intellectual property, misrepresentation or
defamation. 9. Arbitration. The parties agree that they will try in good faith
to settle within thirty (30) days any dispute, controversy or
claim arising out of relating to or in connection with this
Agreement ("Dispute''). If the Dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days after such Dispute arose, such Dispute must
be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration, to which the
Parties hereto expressly agree and submit. The arbitration will
be submitted to the International Centre for Dispute Resolution
of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") and conducted
in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the
AAA in force as of the date of this Agreement ("Rules''). Pre-
hearing information exchange shall be limited to the
reasonable production of relevant, non-privileged documents
and carried out expeditiously. There will be one arbitrator
selected by mutual agreement of the Parties. The arbitrator
will not act as amiable compositeur or ex aequo et bono. It is
the intent of the parties that, barring extraordinary
circumstances, arbitration proceedings will be concluded
within 60 days from the date the arbitrator is appointed. The
arbitrator may extend this time limit in the interests of justice.
Failure to adhere to this time limit shall not constitute a basis
for challenging the award. The arbitration will be conducted in
English and the place of arbitration will be Bangalore, India. IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Either party may, without waiving any remedy under this
Agreement, apply to the arbitrator and/or any court having
jurisdiction any interim, provisional, injunctive or conservatory
relief that is necessary to protect the rights or property of that
party until the arbitration award is rendered or the Dispute is
otherwise resolved. Any decision rendered by the arbitrator
will be final and binding on the parties, and judgment thereon
may be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, any court that has jurisdiction
over either of the parties or any of their assets. The parties
expressly agree that the arbitrator will be empowered to
award and order equitable or injunctive relief with respect to
matters brought before him, provided however, that such
remedy or relief is consistent with the remedies and
limitations set forth in this Agreement. The parties agree that
all arbitral proceedings conducted pursuant to this Section,
including the existence of any arbitral proceedings,
information disclosed in the course of such arbitral
proceedings, and any settlements, negotiations, discussions,
proposals, and awards related thereto shall be considered
confidential information and shall not be disclosed to third
parties except as required by law or otherwise provided
herein. The parties may, however, disclose such information to
an appropriate court, as is necessary to seek enforcement of
any award rendered by the arbitrator or to seek any interim,
provisional, injunctive or conservatory relief pursuant to the
terms hereof 10. Miscellaneous. The Agreement must be construed as if
both parties jointly wrote it, governed by Indian law. The
Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes and replaces any other applicable agreements,
terms and conditions applicable to the subject matter hereof
Any conflicting or additional terms contained in additional
documents (e.g. reference to a purchase order number) or oral
discussions are void. Each party shall not disclose the terms
or conditions of these Terms to any third party, except to its
professional advisors under a strict duty of confidentiality or
as necessary to comply with a government law, rule or
regulation. Customer may grant approvals, permissions,
extensions and consents by email, but any modifications by
Customer to the Agreement must be made in a writing
executed by both parties. Any notices to Google must be sent
to Google India Pvt. Ltd., No.3, RMZ Infinity - Tower E, Old
Madras Road, 4th Floor, Bangalore, 560016, India with a
copy to Legal Department, via confirmed facsimile, with a copy
sent via first class or air mail or overnight courier, and are 51 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. deemed given upon receipt. Notice to Customer may be
 effected by sending email to the email address specified in
 Customer's account, or by posting a message to Customer's
 account interface, and is deemed received when sent (for
 email) or no more than 15 days after having been posted
 (for messages in Customer's account interface). A waiver of
 any default is not a waiver of any subsequent default.
 Unenforceable provisions will be modified 10 reflect the
 parties' intention and only to the extent necessary to make
 them enforceable, and remaining provisions of the
 Agreement will remain in full effect. Customer may not assign
 any of its rights hereunder and any such attempt is void.
 Google and Customer and Google and Partners are not legal
 partners or agents, but are independent contractors. In the
 event that these Terms or an Advertising Program expire or is
 terminated, Google shall not be obligated to return any
 materials to Customer. 11. Term: Unless terminated earlier under the terms of this
 Agreement This Agreement shall have a term of 1 year from
 the latest of the signature dates below. Customer
 acknowledges and agrees that if this Agreement expires or is
 terminated any Customer campaigns in effect as of
 the date of such expiration or termination or any new
 campaigns commenced after such expiration or termination
 shall run thereafter subject to Google's then standard terms
 and conditions for the Program." 20. Under the Distribution Agreement, the assessee acted
as a distributor of online advertisement space to Indian
Advertisers. The assessee was ensured a specified margin
over its cost from GIL. If in case, the revenue recorded by the
assessee from the sale of online advertisement space to
Indian Advertisers was less than its cost (incurred in
connection with its distribution function) plus the specified
margin, GIL was required to compensate the assessee for the
difference. However, where the revenue recorded by the
assessee from the onward sale of online advertisement space
to Indian Advertisers was more than the cost plus the 52 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. specified margin of the assessee, the assessee was required
to make the payment to GIL. 21. In the present case, it is not in dispute that the DT AA
between India - Ireland is applicable in respect of the
payments made by the assessee to Google Ireland. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis Centre of
Excellence (P) Ltd v CIT (supra) at para 108 of its judgment
held as under:- 22. Thus, the definition of the term "royalty" in Article 12(3) of the India - Ireland DT AA override the definition of
"royalty" as provided in Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of
the Act by virtue of section 90(2) . Therefore, the definition of
the term "royalty" under the India - Ireland DTAA being more
beneficial to the assessee must only be considered in these
appeals. The findings of the AO and CIT(A) as regards the
characterisation of the payments to Google Ireland as
'Royalty' under section 9(l)(vi) of the Act is therefore not
relevant and consequently correctness of these findings need 53 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. not be adjudicated in these appeals. Similarly, we do not
think it is necessary to decide whether the services
agreement and distribution agreement are interlinked or
complementary to each other. ITES services are enabling the
overall business and not directly related to generating
revenue from Adword Program in India. Revenue is
generated by end customers clicking on link and not
because of ITES services. Even if it is interlinked, the
internal tools / intangibles / software of Google Ireland are
admittedly not transferred to assessee. The assessee has
only right to use these for rendering ITES services. Applying
ratio of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited (supra), this cannot result in royalty. We proceed to examine
whether the definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12 of India-
Ireland DT AA is satisfied in the present case considering the
distribution agreement, services agreement and the facts on
record. 23. The definition of 'Royalty' as per Article 12(3)(a) of India - Ireland DTAA is as under:- IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. 24. The first limb of the above definition treats consideration
for the use of or the right to use any copyright of literary,
artistic or scientific work including cinematograph film or
films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting as royalty.
The computerised advertising program i.e., "Google AdWords
Program" is essentially a computer program i.e., a computer
software. As per Explanation 3 to section 9(l)(vi) , a computer
software means any computer programme recorded on any
disc, tape, perforated media or other information storage
device and includes any such programme or any customized
electronic data. It is not in dispute that the Adwords Program
is used by the assessee in the present case be it for the
purpose of discharging its functions under the distribution
agreement or under the services agreement. However, the
question for our consideration is whether the copyright in
"Google AdWords Program" is used by the assessee or not? In
order to attract definition of 'Royalty', there has to be use or
right to use, inter alia, any copyright. The issue as to whether
usage of computer software tantamounts to royalty, is now
resolved by the Supreme Court decision in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited (supra). The Supreme Court grouped the various appeals on
the aspect of royalty issue on software payments into four
categories as under:- 25. The Supreme Court made a reference to the relevant
provisions of the Copyright Act and on the interpretation of
the same, it accepted the difference between a copyright right
and copyrighted article. The important observations of the
Supreme Court are summarized as follows:- M/s.Google India Private Limited. itself, serve to transfer the copyright therein. The transfer of
 the ownership of the physical substance, in which copyright
 subsists, gives the purchaser the right to do with it whatever
 he pleases, except the right to reproduce the same and issue it
 to the public, unless such copies are already in circulation,
 and the other acts mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright
 Act. (iv) A licence from a copyright owner, conferring no
 proprietary interest on the licensee, does not entail parting
 with any copyright, and is different from a licence issued
 under section 30 of the Copyright Act, which is a licence which
 grants the licensee an interest in the rights mentioned in section 14(a) and 14(b) of the Copyright Act. Where the core of
 a transaction is to authorize the end-user to have access to
 and make use of the "licensed" computer software product
 over which the licensee has no exclusive rights,
 no copyright is parted with and consequently, no infringement
 takes place, as is recognized by section 52(l)(aa) of the
 Copyright Act. It makes no difference whether the end-user is
 enabled to use computer software that is customised to its
 specifications or otherwise. (v) A non-exclusive, non-transferable licence, merely enabling
 the use of a copyright product, is in the nature of restrictive
 conditions which are ancillary to such use, and cannot be
 construed as a licence to enjoy all or any of the enumerated
 rights mentioned in section 14 of the Copyright Act. or create
 any interest in any such rights so as to attract section 30 of
 the Copyright Act. (vi) The right to reproduce and the right to use computer
 software are distinct and separate rights, as has been
 recognized in State Bank of India (supra) (see paragraph 21),
 former amounting to parting with copyright and the latter, in
 the context of no exclusive EULAs, not being so." 26. Having considered the above principles in the context of
copyright royalty, we proceed to examine the applicability of
the above principles to the facts of the present case
particularly with reference to distribution agreement, services
agreement and other facts on record. As per para 2.1 of the
distribution agreement, assessee is appointed as a non 59 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. exclusive authorised distributor of Google Adwords program
to Advertisers. Para 2.2 of the agreement states that the
distributor agrees to market and distribute Adwords program
to advertisers within the broad guidelines provided by Google
with its reasonable commercial expertise and own sales force
and customer service infrastructure. It also provides that the
Distributor will distribute the AdWords program in
accordance with the training provided by Google. As per para
2.3, distributor shall be responsible for uploading all
Advertiser information that is required by Google for
participation in the Adwords Program. As per para 2.6,
distributor will provide after sales services to Advertisers in
accordance with the broad instructions, training and
standards of Google. The advertising space is provided by GIL
through the Adwords program and GIL also agreed to train
the distributor. It is specifically agreed that the agreement
shall constitute a non exclusive relationship between Google
Ireland and distributor. Google Ireland owns all right, title
and interest in and to all information and data including the
user data collected by it in connection with the provision of
the Adwords Program. 27. As per the service level agreement - Exhibit C to
distribution agreement, assessee distributor shall be solely
responsible for providing all customer services to Advertisers,
according to the procedures, and in compliance with
standards, provided by Google. All Advertisers shall be
instructed by Distributor to contact Distributor directly for 60 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. support, and not to communicate directly with Google
Ireland. Distributor agrees that it shall provide minimum
levels of service like Business hours phone support to all
Advertisers, E-mail queries from Advertisers shall be
responded to within one (l) business day with immediate
resolution of any issues when possible. It was decided that
the issues that cannot immediately be resolved by Distributor
based on training and procedures provided under the
Agreement must be communicated promptly to Google Ireland
by Distributor / assessee, and Google Ireland will assist
assessee / Distributor in determining the best solution. It was
also agreed that the distributor agrees that Google Ireland will
have the right, to review samples of communications sent to
Advertisers to assess the quality of responses and modify
communications accordingly. Google Ireland shall also have
the right to send questionnaires to Distributor's customers to
ensure that Distributor is providing an adequate level of
service. 28. As per the standard Advertising program terms, the
advertiser is solely responsible for all ad targeting options,
keywords and all ad content. The advertiser represents and
warrants that it holds and hereby grants Google and Partners
all rights (including without limitation any copyright,
trademark, patent, publicity or other rights) in Creative,
Services and Targets needed for Google and Partner to operate
Google's advertising programs for Customer (including
without limitation any rights needed to host, cache, route, 61 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. transmit, store, copy, modify, distribute, perform, display,
reformat, excerpt, analyze, and create algorithms from and
derivative works of Creative or Targets) in connection with
this Agreement ("Use"). The advertiser represents and
warrants that (y) all Customer information is complete,
correct and current; and (z) any Use hereunder and
Customer's Creative, Targets, and Customer's Services will
not violate or encourage violation of any applicable laws,
regulations, code of conduct, or third party rights (including,
without limitation, intellectual property rights). Violation of
the foregoing may result in immediate termination of this
Agreement or customer's account without notice and may
subject Customer to legal penalties and consequences. 29. As per the services agreement, the assessee was
providing information and information technology enabled
services to Google Ireland. As regards ownership of
intellectual property and ownership of derivate works, it was
agreed that all intellectual property shall remain the exclusive
property of Google Ireland. The confidential information
provided by Google Ireland was to be employed by the
assessee in performance of its services under the agreement
and it shall remain the sole property of the Google Ireland.
The statements recorded from the employees also confirms
that the confidential information, software technology and the
training documents for providing services under the services
agreement are provided by Google Ireland to the assessee. IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. 30. On a consideration of all the above agreements and the
facts on record, we find that none of the rights as per section
14(a) /(b) and section 30 of the Copyright Act, 1957 have been
transferred by Google Ireland to the assessee in the present
case. As held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited v.
CIT & Anr. (supra), mere use of or right to use a computer
program without any transfer of underlying copyright in it as
per section 14(a) /(b) or section 30 of the Copyright Act, 1957
will not be satisfying the definition of Royalty under the Act /
DTAA. Similarly, use of confidential information, software
technology, training documents and others are all 'literary
work' with copyrights in it owned by the foreign entity and
there was no transfer or license of copyrights in favour of the
assessee company. Hence, the impugned payments cannot be
characterised as 'Royalty' under the DTAA. 31. The lower authorities have held that the assessee has
been granted the use of or right to use trademarks, other
brand features and the process owned by Google Ireland for
the purpose of distribution of Adwords program and
consequently the sums payable to Google Ireland are royalty.
As per Article 12 of India - Ireland DTAA, consideration for
the use of or right to use any patent, trade mark, design or
model, plan, secret formula or process is regarded as royalty.
In the present case, as per the distribution agreement,
"Google Brand Features" means the Google trade names,
trademarks, service marks, logos, domain names, and other 63 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. distinctive brand features, with some but not all examples at
"http://www.google.com/permissions/trademarks.html" (or
such other URL that Google may provide from time to time),
and such other trade names, trademarks, service marks,
logos, domain names, or other distinctive brand features that
Google may provide to Distributor for use solely under this
Agreement. As per para 6 of the distribution agreement, each
party shall own all right, title and interest, including without
limitation all Intellectual Property Rights, relating to its Brand
Features and Google Irland grants to the assessee /
distributor nonexclusive and nonsublicensable licence during
the Term to display Google Brand Features solely for the
purpose of distributor's marketing and distribution of
AdWords Program under the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in this Agreement. It is thus evident that
the trademark and other brand features are not used
independently or de hors the distribution agreement but they
are incidental or ancillary for the purpose of carrying out the
marketing and distribution of Adword program. The Delhi
High Court in DIT v Sheraton International Inc [2009] 313
ITR 267 held that when the use of trade mark, trade name etc
are incidental to the main service of advertisement, publicity
and sales promotion and further when there is no
consideration payable for such use of trade mark, trade name
etc, the consideration cannot be characterised as royalty.
Applying the said principle, in the present case, use of Google
Brand Features etc are de hors any consideration payable to
Google Ireland and further they are incidental and ancillary 64 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. for achieving the main purpose of marketing and distributing
the Google Adwords Program. Hence, the lower authorities
were not right in treating the payments as Royalty. 32. As regards the applicability of 'use of or right to use
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment" the CIT(A)
held that the assessee cannot be said to have gained right to
use any scientific equipment, since, Google Ireland has not
parted with the copyright it holds in the Adwords program
and hence it cannot be said that any kind of technical
knowhow has been transferred to the assessee company. The
CIT(A) was not in agreement with the AO on the above issue
without prejudice to his view in holding that the remitted
amount is royalty on different grounds. The revenue has not
challenged the said finding of CIT(A). Hence, the impugned
payments cannot be regarded as made for 'use of or right to
use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment'. The
remaining portion of definition of 'Royalty' under the India -
Ireland DT AA is consideration for information concerning
industrial, commercial or scientific experience. The AO has
not characterised the impugned payments as a consideration
for the above. In any case, CIT(A) has given a finding that it
cannot be said that any kind of technical knowhow has been
transferred to the assessee company. This has not been
challenged by the revenue. 33. Thus on an overall analysis of the entire facts on record,
we hold that the impugned payments cannot be regarded as
royalty under the India - Ireland DTAA. It is true that the 65 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Google Adword program was commercially and profitably
exploited in a commercial sense and profitable manner in
India to generate revenues from Indian customers or
advertisers. This is the business or commercial aspect of the
transaction. However, the stand of the lower authorities that
the impugned payments are in the nature of Royalty cannot
be upheld especially under Article 12 of the India - Ireland
DTAA merely because the marketing, distribution and ITES
activities are carried out in India and revenues are generated
from India or from Indian Advertisers. As held by the
Supreme Court in the case of UOI v Azadi Bachao Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706, at page 763: 34. Before concluding, it is to be mentioned that the
taxability with respect to payments made for purchase of
online advertisement has been decided by the following Co-
ordinate Bench orders of the I.T.Act:- M/s.Google India Private Limited. payment remitted by Yahoo India to Yahoo Hong Kong was
the subject matter of dispute before the Tribunal. The AO as
well as CIT(A) held such payments to be royalty and in that
manner, disallowed the expenditure in the hands of Yahoo
India under section 40(a) of the Act. The Tribunal, in second
appeal, held that banner advertisement hosting services did
not involve use or right to use any industrial, commercial, or
scientific equipment and no such use was granted by Yahoo
Hong Kong. In that manner, the Tribunal set aside the
findings of the AO and CIT(A), wherein the subject payments
were characterised as royalty. (ii) Pinstorm (supra): Pinstorm was engaged in buying
online advertisement space for onward re-sale to an
advertiser, much like GIPL in the present case. For such
purpose, Pinstorm made payments to GIL, which were
disallowed by the AO and CIT(A) under section 40(a)(i) of the
Act, on the premise that the said payments were taxable in
India. While the AO held the said payments to be fees for
technical services ("FTS"), the CIT(A) held them to be royalty.
The Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo (supra) to delete
the disallowance. It was also observed by the Tribunal that
the said payments were business profits, which were not
taxable in India, since GIL did not have a PE in India. (iii) Right Florists (supra): Right Florist was a florist who
used Google Search Engine for online advertising, to
generate more business for itself. In this case again, the AO
had disallowed the payments made by Right Florist for
online advertising under section 40(a)(i) of the Act. However,
the CIT(A) reversed the said decision on the ground that
none of the recipients of the payments had a PE in India. The Tribunal, in Department's appeal, upheld the order of
the CIT(A), while observing that the decisions in Yahoo
(supra) and Pinstorm (supra) were authorities in support of
the proposition that payment by the Indian arm of a foreign
owner of search engine portal, in connection with online
advertising, is not in the nature of royalty as per section
9(1)(vi) of the Act. In this decision, the Tribunal also
discussed the modalities involved in the online advertising
business, in the context of Google Search Engine. IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. (iv) Inception Business (supra): In this case the assessee
was engaged in the business of brand management as well
as posting advertisements in the social portal on behalf of
their clients. The AO held the payments made by it for that
purpose to Facebook Ireland Ltd., a non-resident, to be
taxable in India. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The
Tribunal relied on the decision in Yahoo (supra), Pinstorm
(supra), Right Florists (supra), while setting aside the order
of the AO/ CIT(A) and holding that the payments for
purchase of online advertisement space were not taxable in
India. (v) Urban Ladder (supra): The assessee in this case, made
payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising.
The AO held the said payments to be royalty. The CIT(A)
upheld the order of the AO. However, while doing so, the
CIT(A) relied upon certain functional aspects of
advertisement system qua Patent Number
US20040059708A1 as well as US7778872B2. These two
patents are held by Google LLC., USA in connection with the
Google AdWords Program hereto. The Tribunal, set aside the
order of the CIT(A), while following the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering Analysis (supra). The
Hon'ble Tribunal also relied on the decisions in Yahoo
(supra), Pinstorm (supra) and Right Florists (supra). (vi) Myntra Designs (supra): Myntra in this case, made
payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd., for online advertising.
The AO held the said payments to be royalty and in the
alternate, as FTS. The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO.
The Tribunal followed the decision in Urban Ladder (supra),
while setting aside the order of the CIT(A). (vii) Play Games (supra): Play games is engaged in the
business of providing a platform for online gaming. It had
made payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online
advertising. The AO and CIT(A) in this case as well, held
that payments to be taxable in India. The Hon'ble Tribunal
observed that Play Games did not get any right to modify/
deal with the servers, which belonged to Facebook Ireland 68 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. Ltd., in any manner. It was also observed inter alia that the
said servers, which hosted online advertisements, were
located outside India and that Facebook Ireland Ltd. did not
have a PE in India. In that manner, the Tribunal set aside
the order of the CIT(A) and held the payments in question to
be neither royalty, nor FTS. (viii) Matrimony.com (supra): Matrimony.com in this case,
made payments to Facebook Ireland Ltd. for online
advertising. The AO in this case as well, disallowed the said
payments under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, which action was
upheld by the CIT(A). The Tribunal followed the decision in
Urban Ladder (supra), while deleting the said disallowance. (ix) ESPN Digital Media (supra): ESPN India in this case,
entered into a re-seller agreement with ESPN UK, for the
resale of online advertisement space. In terms thereof, ESPN
India purchased online advertisement space for re-sale to
Indian advertisers. For this purchase, it made payments to
ESPN UK, which were characterised as royalty by the AO.
The CIT(A) upheld the order of the AO. The Tribunal, in
second appeal, set aside the order of the CIT(A), while
observing that ESPN India was merely making payment
under the re-seller agreement towards purchase of online
advertisement space. It was also observed that a website is
not a tangible property and is certainly not a high-tech
equipment. It was also observed that the reliance of the AO
and CIT(A) on the decision in Verizon Communications
Singapore Pte Ltd. v. ITO , (2014) 361 ITR 575 (Madras High
Court) was misplaced, since the same had been overruled by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the decision in Engineering
Analysis (supra). (x) Interactive Avenues (supra): Interactive Avenues is
an internet advertising agency, which places online
advertisements on behalf of its clients. The payments in this
case were made to Facebook Ireland Ltd., which were
disallowed by the AO and the CIT(A). The Tribunal observed
that Interactive Avenues was utilising Google Search Engine
amongst others, to buy online advertisement space on behalf
of its clients. Be that as it may, the Tribunal set aside the 69 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. order of the CIT(A) and held that the payments in question
 could not be characterised as royalty, while relying on the
 decisions in Urban Ladder (supra) and Play Games (supra). 35. It is also relevant to point out that in the context of
interpreting Article 12(3) of India - Ireland DTAA, it is relevant
to take note of the existing international jurisprudence. The
Technical Advisory Group ("TAG") set up by the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), in its
Report (2001) on treaty characterisation of electronic
commerce payments analysed various e-commerce
transactions and suggested suitable characterisation for
consideration flowing thereunder. One of the transactions
analysed by TAG was advertising. In the context of online
advertisements, including advertisements where the payment
is based on number of clicks (i.e., CPC basis), TAG
recommended taxability of such payments under Article 7 of
the relevant DTAA. The said Article 7 deals with "business
profits" and not royalty. Business profits under Article 7 are
taxable only where the non-resident has a PE in India. 36. It is important to note that TAG was set up by OECD
and its recommendation on changes to the OECD
commentary were accepted by OECD. As per the recent
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Engineering
Analysis , (supra), OECD commentary is a necessary aid for
the interpretation of provisions contained in DTAA. In fact,
the High-Powered Committee ("HPC") on electronic commerce
and taxation, set up by the Central Board of Direct Taxes 70 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. ("CBDT") had also accepted the view taken by TAG and
recommended taxing consideration flowing for online
advertisement under Article 7 , and not Article 12 of the
relevant DTAA. 37. Therefore, in terms of the international guidance as
stated herein, the position regarding taxability of receipts
from sale of online advertisement space is clear. Unless the
non-resident, who is engaged in sale of online advertisement
space, has a PE in India, no portion of receipts earned by it
from sale of online advertisement space in India can be
brought to tax in India as Act read with the relevant DTAA. 38. The above view is also supported by insertion of
provisions related to Equalisation Levy (EL) by Finance Act,
2016 . The root for the emergence of the EL can be traced to
the dynamic business models that have the ability to
transcend the link between an income producing activity and
a specific location since these business are carried in the
cyber place. The PE definition presently is based upon the
physical presence criteria. The new business models also
created challenges in characterizing the nature of payment -
whether the payment is for services or for any IPR and hence
royalty or whether it represents pure business profits.
Various ITAT decisions, as discussed above, have held that
income from sale of advertisement space on a website is not
taxable in India if there is no PE of the foreign enterprise in
India. It was held that such income is not to be regarded as 71 IT(TP)A No.1513/Bang/2013 & Ors. M/s.Google India Private Limited. royalty or FTS. Such tax challenges is addressed by the
introduction of EL. Section 165 of the Finance Act, 2016
provides for charge of EL at 6% on consideration for specified
services. Section 164(i) of Finance Act, 2016 provides that
"specified service" means online advertisement, any provision
for digital advertising space or any other facility or service for
the purpose of online advertisement and includes any other
service as may be notified by the Central Government in this
behalf. Thus, online advertisement is now covered under EL.
If online advertisement was already covered under definition
of royalty, then bringing it as part of EL scheme would not
arise. 39. In view of the aforesaid discussion and the judicial
pronouncements, cited supra, we hold that the impugned
payment cannot be characterized as royalty under the India-
Ireland DTAA. It is ordered accordingly. 40. In the result, the appeals filed by the assessee are
allowed. Order pronounced on this 19th day of October, 2022.