APPEAL UNDER SECTION 96 READ WITH ORDER XLI
RULE 1 WITH SECTION 151 CPC AGAINST THE IMPUGNED
DECREE & JUDGMENT DATED 30.11.2013 PASSED BY MS.
RICHA PARIHAR, LD. CIVIL JUDGE­06 (CENTRAL), TIS
HAZARI, DELHI IN SUIT NO. 541/10/1989 TITLED AS
M/S. BHARDWAJ MEDICINE CENTRE VERSUS DELHI
TRANSPORT CORPORATION. Date on which Judgment was reserved : 18.09.2019
Date of Judgment : 11.11.2019

 ­: J U D G M E N T :­ 1. The Appellant was the plaintiff and the respondent was
 defendant in the suit. The appellant and respondent are
 respectively referred in this Judgment according to the
 original status before the Ld. Trial Court. The
 Appellant/plaintiff is dissatisfied with the Judgment and
 Decree dated 30.11.2013 passed by the Ld. Trial Court. The
 Ld. Trial Court has dismissed the suit of the Plaintiff. 2. Succinctly, the plaintiff had filed a Suit for recovery against
 the defendant inter­alia on the following facts that:­
 (1) The Plaintiff, M/s. Bhardwaj Center is a dealer in
 medicine and is a proprietary concerned of Sh. Jagdish
 Prasad Bhardwaj. Vide letter no. ADM­I­7I27)/83, dated
 16.12.1983 of defendant, plaintiff was empaneled as
 authorized chemist for supplying medicine to its
 employees and their family members under the
 prescription of doctor authorized by the defendants
 under its New Medical Scheme. The defendant allotted
 the code no. C­0291 to plaintiff. RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 2 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 (2) Thereafter, the plaintiff started supplying medicine as
 per prescription received from the DTC authorized
 doctors to the employees of defendant. The plaintiff used
 to get signatures of the employees of the defendant on
 the bill in token of the receipt of the medicine and then
 said bill was sent to defendant periodically for re­
 payment. The defendant had also been paying the
 amount periodically. The defendant had been extending
 this scheme periodically and had informed the plaintiff
 vide its letter no. ADMI­7(27)/MS/86 dated 22.01.1986
 that the scheme w.e.f. 01.02.1986 has been
 discontinued. The plaintiff thereafter, stopped supply of
 medicine to the employees of the defendant.
 (3) The plaintiff had supplied medicines for the employee of
 the defendant during the period of the scheme as per
 terms and conditions incorporated in the letter of
 appointment. The balance amount for which the
 medicine have been supplied to the employee of the
 defendant during the existence of the scheme as per
 terms and conditions comes to Rs. 84,293.43/­. The last
 payment of Rs. 15000/­ was made by the defendant in
 this account on 22.01.1986 and thereafter no payment
 has been made to the plaintiff in this account.
 (4) The account containing the details of medicines supplied
 to the employees of the defendant as well as the balance

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 3 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 amount of Rs. 84,293.43/­ was sent to the defendant on
 31.03.1986. The defendant has not paid the aforesaid
 amount in spite of the demands of the plaintiff and
 hence, the defendant is also liable to pay the interest on
 the aforesaid balance amount @ 18% per annum from
 the due date of the date of payments. The interest from
 22.01.1986 to 21.01.1989 comes to Rs. 45,418.22/­
 approximately and the total of the balance amount plus
 interest comes to Rs. 1,29,711.65/­. The defendant is
 also liable to pay interest on this total amount from the
 date of suit till the date of realization.
 (5) The notice for making payment of Rs. 84293.43/­ was
 sent to the defendant on 02.02.1987 and the reply to
 same notice was received from the defendant vide its
 letter no. LA5186 dated 26.02.1987 stating that the
 amount is found due to the same will be paid to the
 plaintiff. The defendant in spite of the above letter
 neither informed nor paid anything despite repeated
 demands made by plaintiff to the defendant hence
 plaintiff has filed the suit in the trial court. 3. The defendant has filed the written statement and succinctly
 submitted as under:­
 (1) The contents of the plaint are vague giving no
 particulars of cash memos with amount thereof of the
 patients to whom medicines were issued, of the unit in

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 4 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 which the employee were working and the details of the
 payments were received. The entire amount claimed in
 the suit is not within limitation. (2) In reply on merits, it is denied that plaintiff is
 proprietorship concern of Sh. Jagdish Prasad Bhardwaj,
 however, it is admitted that plaintiff is dealing in the
 business of medicine and was empaneled as the
 authorized chemist under the New Medical Scheme of
 defendant. The defendant has reproduced the relevant
 facts regarding this new scheme as follows:­ (i) that vide office order no. 8 dated 28.04.1984 DTC
 introduced and enforced from 1.5.1984 a "New
 Medical Scheme" for providing free medical facility
 to its employees with a view to ensure assistance
 in bonafide and genuine cases of sickness. (ii) that the scheme envisaged to empanel a number of
 doctors and chemists. (iii) that every employees cold opt 2 doctors from the
 doctors empaneled by DTC. (iv) that the employees had been issued Medical cards
 showing his name and the name of his family
 members and the signatures of his family
 members above 12 years of age against his name. (v) that two sets of employees Index Card had been
 prepared in duplicate (one for each of the two

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 5 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 doctors and one for DTC i.e. Total 4) Each
 employee Index Card contained the names of the
 employee and his family members and against the
 name of adult persons their signs had been
 obtained. That One employee Index Card had
 been sent to the two doctors opted by the
 employee. (vi) that in the case of sickness an employee or any
 member of his family could approach/report to
 any of the two doctors opted by him who was
 supposed to tally the sign of the employee of his
 family members on the employee on Index Card on
 medical cards and his signature on the
 prescription slip which he was to obtain while
 issuing prescription slip on the forms supplied to
 him by DTC. Two of the slips (i.e. the original and
 second carbon copy of original with signatures of
 the employee or his family members were given to
 the patient and the 1st carbon copy with signatures
 of the patient remained with the doctor. Prescription slips in triplicate were supplied to the
 doctors by DTC. After some time of the
 introduction the scheme, the DTC started getting
 printed in red ink in the original prescription slip

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 6 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 ( chemists copy) on 1st carbon copy (doctors copy)
 and on 2nd carbon copy (employee copy). (vii) that the employee/patient was required to
 approach any empaneled chemist with the said
 original and 2nd carbon copy of the prescription
 slip with the medical car of the employee to show
 that the patient name was included in the same. (viii) that the original prescription slip was given to the
 chemist by the employee/patient and the chemist
 prepared cash memo in duplicate (one original
 plus one carbon copy) and obtained the signatures
 of the employee patient on the same. (ix) that it was also the duty of the chemist to see and
 to tally the signatures of the employee/patient on
 the cash memo with the signature of the
 prescription slip issued by the doctor and as
 stated above to verify that the name of the patient
 was entered in the medical card of the employee. (x) that it was that the chemist would issue the
 medicines after been satisfied that the same were
 honestly and genuinely required by the employee
 or their family members and that the medicines
 would be issued and the bills would be prepared
 and submitted in strict compliance with

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 7 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 instructions and directions issued by DTC from
 time to time. (3) The said scheme had to be discontinued as the same
 was unfortunately exploited by most of the employees of
 the DTC in connivance with the empaneled doctors and
 chemist including the plaintiff resulting into illegality
 depriving the DTC a sum of about Rs. 18 crores by way
 of medical expenses during the period of May 1984 of
 July, 1985. (4) That about 550 chemists and about 1260 doctors in
 Delhi were placed in panel of DTC for issuing of
 medicines to the employees of DTC under New Medical
 Scheme. The empaneled chemist and the doctors were to
 carry out and comply with the directions issued by DTC
 from time to time. The scheme was put into operation
 w.e.f. 01.05.1984 and within a few months it was noted
 that the scheme was being exploited. Some of the
 employees were getting issued medicines for more than
 Rs. 100/­ and at one of the same time each for himself
 and for others members of his family. That DTC issued
 office order no. 35 dated 15.10.1984 which contained
 instructions to be followed by the empaneled chemist
 and the doctors. That among other following were the
 instructions in the said office order no. 35:­

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 8 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC (i) No doctor will be allowed to prescribe medicines for
 more than 3 days in the first instance except in
 cases of T.B. Diabatesmollitus and Epilepsy. (ii) In all cases panel doctors shall prescribe only
 smaller packing of all the drugs including ointment
 and the chemist shall also supply only small
 packing even if larger one are prescribed, failing
 which the cost thereof shall be recoverable by the
 competent authority. (iii) Only one antibiotic shall be prescribed by the
 panel doctor at a time as far as possible and
 whenever, more than one is required, full
 justification therefore, shall be given by him on the
 prescription itself. (iv) Chemist (and the doctors) shall invariably verify
 the signatures of employee/patient before supply
 of medicines. (v) As envisaged in the medical scheme proprietary
 preparation are to be avoided as far as possible
 particularly where cheaper substitute of equal
 there apeutic value are available. (vi) With a view to implementing these provisions of
 the schemes in its true perspective, no medicines
 as are included in the list of inadmissible
 medicines printed under the CGHS Scheme by

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 9 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 Muthu Swami shall be prescribed or the cost
 thereof paid for to the employee. (vii) That the empaneled chemist and the doctors were
 to be purchased the printed list of inadmissible
 medicines published by Muthuswamy under the
 CGHS scheme of the Central Government for strict
 compliance. (viii) The medicines prescribed by the doctors (panel
 doctors, DTC medical officer, etc.) where the cost
 thereof is more than Rs.50/­ per prescription shall
 be purchased by the employees only from the
 Super Bazar and the reimbursement claimed there
 for from their respective units as hitherto­fore. (ix) The chemists shall also not issue medicines on any
 one prescription where the cost of medicines
 prescribed is more than Rs.50/­. medicines supplied by them on any prescription in
 breach of these limits. The amount in excess will
 be retrenched by the units. (xi) DTC will have the right to withhold payment of any
 medical bill/ any prescription for satisfying itself of
 its genuineness. RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 10 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC (xii) It may also be pointed out that the empaneled
 chemist could issue the medicines of a medical
 prescription only if he had all the prescribed
 medicines because he was to retain the original
 medical prescription slip and if he did not have
 some medicine and kept the original medical
 prescription slip, the employee would be debarred
 from purchasing the rest of the medicines which
 were not supplied by the chemists. (xiii) That the chemist could not issue medicines on the
 prescription slip which were not signed by doctors
 and/or did not bear the seal of the doctors. (xiv) That the office order no. 8 and 35 were duly served
 on the plaintiff and have been relied upon by him
 in the suit. (xv) That keeping in view of the nature of scheme and
 the fact that about 1,50,000/­employees of DTC
 and their family members were covered by the
 Scheme it was the duty of the empaneled doctors
 to be satisfied that exploiting the scheme and to
 issue prescription slips only to genuineness
 employees and their family members and after
 being satisfied about their genuine sickness. It
 was also the duty of the empaneled chemists to
 issue medicines after being fully satisfied that the

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 11 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 employees and their family members approaching
 them for medicine were really sick and were not
 exploiting the Scheme. In case of doubt about the
 genuineness of the prescription slips the chemists
 were expected not to issue the medicines. The
 stock register, sale and purchase register and cash
 memos of the plaintiff would belief the case of the
 plaintiff. (xvi) That in addition to the production of prescription
 slip by the empaneled (approved doctors by the
 employees and their family members. The plaintiff
 had to comply with various other instruction and
 directions issued by the defendant from time to
 time as detailed above. (xvii) That the plaintiff has failed to state that he issued
 the cash memos and supplied medicines to the
 employees of DTC and their family members in
 compliance with the instructions and directions
 contained in office orders 8 & 35 and other
 circulars and as such the plaint does not disclose
 any cause of action and is liable to be rejected.
 (xviii) It is also denied that plaintiff supplied medicines
 as per the agreement between the parties in fact as
 stated above various circulars, office orders etc.
 containing instructions, directions etc. formed part

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 12 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 of the contract and the plaintiff acted in
 contravention of the same as given in this written
 statement. (5) The plaintiff did not supply the medicines as per
 instructions/ directions of DTC which the plaintiff was
 required to follow nor the bills were submitted as per the
 terms and conditions laid down by DTC in various
 circulars issued by it. It is admitted that defendant had
 been paying amount periodically but it is submitted that
 further payment has been stopped when the defendant
 detected the fraud played by the chemist including the
 plaintiff in connivance with the empaneled doctors and
 some of the employees of DTC. (6) The defendant specifically denies that plaintiff supplied
 medicines to the employees of the defendant during the
 period of scheme as per the terms & conditions laid
 down by DTC in various circulars issued by it. It is
 denied that balance amount for the alleged supply of the
 medicines as per the terms and conditions comes to
 Rs.84,293.43p or any other amount. (7) It is, however, admitted that a payment of Rs.15,000/­
 was made by defendant on 22nd January, 1986,
 however, defendant submits that the plaintiff has not
 specifically mentioned as to which the bills have been

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 13 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 paid and the bills with their respective details which
 have not been cleared. The plaintiff has further failed to
 mention as to against which bills the said payment of
 Rs.15,000/­ has been adjusted. The plaintiff has
 deliberately concealed all these facts.
 (8) The defendant submits that in fact, there is no balance. According to the computer, the plaintiff submitted cash
 memos/ bills purporting to have supplied the medicines
 worth Rs.2,58,212.55 out of which a sum of
 Rs.1,95,444.22p has been erroneously cleared and stood
 paid without proper checking regarding their compliance
 with directions and instructions etc. issued by DTC.
 (9) The scheme was extended from time to time. It is
 admitted that same was stopped w.e.f. 01/02/1986.
 The defendant submits that about 1,50,000/­ persons
 were covered by the New Medical Scheme and on an
 average about 3 lakh cash memos and same number of
 prescription slips were issued by empaneled chemists
 and doctors per month between 01/05/1984 to
 15/07/1984. The dealing staff did not find time to
 check the cash memos and prescriptions slips in a
 month which resulted into payment of about Rs.18
 crores to the empaneled chemists and doctors for the
 bills/ cash memos covering period upto 15/10/1985. In
 the year 1983­84, the medical expenses paid to

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 14 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 employees of DTC amounted to Rs.73,24,000/­ and in
 previous years, the expenses were about same or even
 less. That a probe was ordered in this matter and on
 21/07/1986 screening committee were appointed for the
 scrutiny of the bills and as per the scrutiny
 discrepancies have been found in the bills and cash
 memos issued by plaintiff and other empaneled
 chemists due to the fact that there was violation of many
 terms & conditions of the scheme. It was found inter
 alia that non admissible medicines were issued by
 plaintiff, the signatures of patient on the bills and
 medical prescription slips did not match, the plaintiff
 instead of issuing smaller package of medicines, issued
 large packet of medicines, the plaintiff on many bills and
 cash memos did not mention the batch number and
 date of medicine which is mandatory as per rules. That
 in many cases, plaintiff issued medicines on false
 prescriptions. The plaintiff has issued medicines on
 prescription slips which were not returned by doctors
 and/ or not signed by the doctors or bear the stamp of
 doctor. That there are several other circumstances
 appearing on bills and cash memos to show that there
 have been connivance between the employees plaintiff
 and the empaneled doctors and thus plaintiff has

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 15 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 committed fraud upon the defendant is not entitled to
 any claim from DTC. 4. The plaintiff has filed replication to the written statement
 wherein he has denied the averments of written statement
 and reaffirmed contents of the plaint as correct. 5. On completion of pleadings of parties, following issues were
 framed on 22/04/1994:­
 ISSUES 1. Whether the suit of plaintiff is barred by limitation? OPD 2. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the amount claimed in
 the suit? OPP 3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the interest if so at
 what rate? OPP 4. Relief. 6. The plaintiff has led evidence by way of affidavit PW1, Sh. Jagdish Prasad Bhardwaj, Proprietor of plaintiff company vide
 affidavit dated 24/01/1995 which has not been exhibited by
 the plaintiff. The plaintiff has relied upon Ex.P­1 to Ex.P­7
 mentioned in affidavit. Ex.P­1 is the letter of empanelment of
 plaintiff, Ex.P­2 is the letter dated 30/04/1984 vide which
 defendant informed the plaintiff about its new medical
 scheme, Ex.P­3 is the letter of defendant dated 25/05/1984
 informing the plaintiff about the payment system to doctors
 and chemist and also allotted a code number C0291 to

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 16 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 plaintiff, Ex.P­4 is another office order no. 35 dated
 15/10/1984, Ex.P­5 is the letter dated 25/03/1985 vide
 which the scheme was extended for further period. Ex.P­6 is
 the copy of Statement of Account, as per books of plaintiff,
 Ex.P­7 is the letter dated 2/01/1986 vide which defendant
 has informed the plaintiff that the medical scheme has been
 discontinued w.e.f. 01/02/1986. Ex.P­8 are the copies of the
 bills and their periodical statements sent to the defendant
 from time to time lying in the trunk with the Court. Ex.P­9 is
 the legal notice dated 02/02/1987 and Ex.P­10 is the reply to
 said notice. Plaintiff has been cross­examined by Ld. counsel
 for the defendant. 7. On behalf of defendant, DW1 Sh. V.K. Singh, Manager
 (Accounts) has appeared as witness. DW2 is Dr. Yogesh
 Tiwari, Senior Medical Officer of DTC who has led the
 evidence vide affidavit dated 27/10/2004 which has not been
 exhibited. Ex.DW1/1 is the medical scheme of defendant. The
 summary of the discrepancies found in the bills submitted by
 plaintiff is Ex.DW1/A. DW1 and DW2 have been cross­
 examined by Ld. counsel for the plaintiff. 8. The Ld. Trial Court has passed the impugned Judgment and
 decree dated 30/11/2013, whereby the suit of the plaintiff
 was dismissed. The appellant/plaintiff was aggrieved from
 the Judgment and decree passed by the Ld. Trial Court has

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 17 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 sought to set aside Judgment and decree dated 30/11/2013
 on the following grounds :­
 (A) Because the Ld. Trial Court dismissed the suit of
 plaintiff without considering the evidence led by plaintiff.
 The plaintiff himself came to the witness box and
 deposed that the medicines were given to the patients as
 per directions issued from time to time by the defendant
 office. (B) Because the Ld. Trial Court dismissed the suit of
 plaintiff with an observation that plaintiff has not
 brought best evidence to prove its contentions. The Ld.
 Civil Judge­06 has further made an observation that
 plaintiff has failed to prove the outstanding bills this it
 cannot be ascertained on what basis the sum of
 Rs.1,27,711.65/­ as claimed by plaintiff has been
 calculated. (C) Because the Ld. Trial Court dismissed the suit of the
 plaintiff with an observation that plaintiff has placed on
 record the account/ Ledger books Ex.PW1/6, however,
 the same has not been proved as per law. It is
 submitted that plaintiff has failed all the book of
 accounts/ Ledger books in a box. However, the same
 were admitted by defendant but the Hon'ble Court has

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 18 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 not considered the bills and taken a totally wrong view
 in regard to Section 34 of the Evidence Act. (D) Because the Ld. Trial Court has dismissed the suit of
 plaintiff on a wrong appreciation of evidence, the Ld.
 Civil Judge has not considered the fact that the
 defendant has acknowledged and accepted that
 medicines were given to the employees of the
 organization by plaintiff firm. (E) Because the Ld. Trial Court has dismissed the suit of
 plaintiff wherein, the Ld. Civil Judge has failed to
 appreciate that medicines were given and proper bills
 were raised despite this the defendant had failed to
 make the payments towards bill raised from time to
 time. 9. In the aforesaid background, the following points for
 determination arise for the consideration of the present case:­ i) Can the order under question be termed as perverse,
 capricious and arbitrary? ii) Does the impugned order run against the legal framework
 operating in and principles enunciated in this sphere? iii) Does determination of point for determination no.1 or 2
 warrants any indulgence or interference of the present Court
 with the order appealed against? iv) What order? RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 19 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS OF THE COURT
 The Ld. Trial Court has decided Issue no.1 which relates
to the limitation in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant.
The defendant has neither challenged the judgment and decree
independently nor by filing cross­objections qua the findings of
Issue no.1. However, this Court also does not find any infirmity in
the findings rendered by the Ld. Trial Court qua issue no.1. The
Ld. Trial Court has dismissed the suit primarily on the following
grounds:­ 1. The plaintiff has failed to disclose that which are the bills paid
 by the defendant and which remained outstanding. The
 plaintiff has not brought the best evidence to prove its
 contents. 2. The Ld. Trial Court has relied upon the evidence of DW­1 Sh. V.K. Singh and DW­2 Dr. Yogesh Tiwari, who deposed about
 the discrepancies found in the bills. 3. The Ld. Trial Court has also relied upon clause no.3 of Ex.P­2
 and as per which, seal of the doctor on every prescription and
 signatures of the patient were the necessary requirements. 4. The Ld. Trial Court has also relied upon the fact that the mere
 entries in the ledger book are not sufficient to prove the case
 until & unless the plaintiff specifically pleads the bills which
 remained pending for payment. RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 20 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 There is no dispute between the parties that the plaintiff
has submitted the bills to the defendant for payment, however, the
defendant has taken the defence that there are various
discrepancies in the bills submitted by the plaintiff and on account
of such discrepancies, bills of the plaintiff were not cleared. The
perusal of the ledger account submitted by the plaintiff reveals that
as on 16.09.1985, there was the debit balance of Rs.88,296.82/­.
The ledger account further reveals that as on 13.10.1985, there was
a debit balance of Rs.1,00,472.17p and a payment of Rs.15,000/­
was made by the DTC on 26.10.1985 by means of the cheque. The
ledger also reveals that there was day­to­day entry qua the bills in
their account. The said ledger was not disputed by the defendant.
The last entry in the said ledger account pertains to 22.01.1986,
whereby the plaintiff has received an amount of Rs.15,000/­ leaving
the balance of Rs.84,293.43p on 31.01.1986. It is an admitted case
of the parties that the scheme was abandoned on 31.01.1986.
There was day­to­day entries of the bills in the ledger account. The
entire bills are produced in original vide Ex.P­8, which are kept in
the trunk. The plaintiff has claimed an amount of Rs.84,293.43p.
The plaintiff was having the transaction with the DTC for a period of
about two years and the DTC has failed to show that the payment
was made by the DTC to the plaintiff during the said period on bill­
to­bill basis. It is not the case of the defendant that the defendant
had not received the bills and statement as kept in trunk and which
are collectively Ex.P­8. The transaction appears to be open, current

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 21 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

and non­mutual account as there was a transaction from day­to­
day. The case of the DTC is not that they were paying the plaintiff
on bill to bill basis. The transaction between the DTC and the
plaintiff was not on bill­to­bill basis but on the basis of open,
current and non­mutual account. Therefore, the ledger account
filed by the plaintiff assumes the vital and important document.
The Ld. Trial Court also have taken into consideration the last
payment which was made by the DTC to the plaintiff on 22.01.1986
and in view thereof, the suit, which was filed on 21.01.1989 was
held to be within the period of limitation by the Ld. Trial Court. The perusal of the cross­examination of DW­1 reveals
that in case, the patient was not in a position to go to the doctor,
then his family members named in the medical card, can visit the
doctor and sign the prescription in place of the patient's signature.
The Screening Committee was appointed for checking the disputed
bills but the defendant has not brought the guidelines, which are
issued to the Screening Committee for checking the bills. The DW­
1 has submitted during the cross­examination that he not aware
whether the Screening Committee or the defendant had
communicated to the respective chemist or the doctors, whose bills
were got checked by the Screening Committee. In reference to the discrepancy of excess amount
towards the disputed bills, the DW­1 clarifies that the same
pertains to ad­hoc payment made to the plaintiff but DW­1
admitted that there was no mention in the bills that there was an

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 22 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

ad­hoc payment to the plaintiff. It is admitted by DW­1 that
plaintiff used to submit the bills after every 15 days and the
payment against the said bills was respectively made. However, the
witness has volunteered that the said payment was made on ad­hoc
basis. The witness has also submitted that whatsoever bills have
been mentioned in Ex.DW­1/A, which are disputed by the
Screening Committee, the payment of all the bills has already been
made to the plaintiff. It is also admitted by DW­1 that he does not
know whether the defendant has demanded any retrenched/
overpayment amount from the plaintiff or filed the suit for recovery.
It is also admitted by the DW­1 that no communication in respect of
the irregularities mentioned in Ex. DW­1/A was ever communicated
to the plaintiff. It is also admitted by the DW­1 that the defendant
has no proof to support the statement of DW­1 that the employees
in place of medicines used to purchase cosmetics. In his cross­examination, the DW­2 has categorically
admitted that at the time of checking the bills and prescriptions, no
information or opportunity of hearing was given to the doctor and
chemist from the DTC including the plaintiff. It is further admitted
by the DW­2 that he had not verified the irregularities from the
concerned employees and he had only pointed­out the irregularities
in the bills. The DW­2 further admitted that the irregularity NA
(not admissible) was mentioned by him as the same was not
allowed to be reimbursed by Central Government Rules but the said
medicines could be necessary for the life of patient like B­Complex

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 23 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

and others. The irregularity NED (no expiry date) was pointed­out
by him as the expiry date of the medicines was not mentioned on
the bills issued by the chemist/ plaintiff. He further admitted that
non­mentioning the expiry date on the bill did not mean that the
said medicine was not sold by Chemist/ plaintiff but he volunteered
the genuinity of the medicine is questioned. It is admitted by DW­2
that the irregularity SNT (signature not tally), as mentioned in his
affidavit, was the irregularity, which was not pointed­out by him,
so, he cannot say what is the basis of mentioning the same in his
affidavit. The irregularity ID (incomplete dispensing) means that
the chemist had not supplied the full medicines, as prescribed in
the prescription slip, however, he has admitted that as per office
order Ex.DW­2/4, there was a limit prescribed for supply of
medicines by the chemist and simultaneously, in the said order, it
was also mentioned that if the medicines above Rs.50/­ at a time,
then the chemist will not supply the same and will purchase from
Super Bazar. The irregularity NBN (no batch number) was the
irregularity of the same type as he has stated qua NED. He was not
aware about the number of bills which he had checked qua the
plaintiff. The Ld. counsel for the plaintiff has relied upon the
another judgment of the similar nature passed by the Hon'ble High
Court in RFA No.632/98, which was decided by the Hon'ble High
Court on 08.03.1999 and has confirmed the judgment passed by
Sh. S.N. Dhingra, the then Ld. Additional District Judge. The then

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 24 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

Ld. Additional District Judge has also dealt the similar issues,
which were raised by the defendant in the present case. The then
Ld. Additional District Judge, in the said case, inter­alia came to
the following conclusions:­ 1. It is admitted that there was no directions given by the DTC to
 mention the expiry date on each and every medicine on the
 bill. 2. It is also admitted that a batch no. is known the expiry date
 can be easily trace out in case of doubt. 3. It is not the case of the defendant that the plaintiff supplied
 the medicines of expired period. As far as incomplete
 dispensing, the plaintiff cannot be put to blame. 4. The defendant gave instructions that the medicines only upto
 Rs.50/­ to be given to the employees. In case, the total bill of
 medicines was jumping the bar of Rs.50/­, there was no way
 out either with the employee or with the chemist except to
 leave the medicines which should be left and give the rest of
 medicines to keep the bill below Rs.50/­. The instructions
 should have been given to the doctor to prescribe in such a
 way that the bill of the chemist should not go beyond Rs.50/­.
 If the doctor had prescribed the medicine, the duty of the
 chemist was to give the medicines out of the limit of Rs.50/­
 and under such circumstances, some medicines were bound
 to left for which the employee had to pay out of his own
 pocket of that medicines or chemist had to forgo the price. RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 25 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC 5. The then Ld. Addl. District Judge has held that how the
 chemist can do the jugglery of keeping the bill within Rs.50/­
 and to give all the medicines prescribed by the doctor when
 the total cost of medicines was beyond Rs.50/­. The Ld.
 Judge came to the conclusion that the bill of the chemist
 cannot be retrenched on the ground that he kept the bill
 within the limit of Rs.50/­, as directed by the DTC by not
 given part of the medicines. 6. The Ld. Judge also opined that the Screening Committee was
 formed with the sole motive of refusing the payment to the
 plaintiff and other chemist. The doctor checked even those
 thing which were not required to be mentioned by the
 Chemist in the bill. When the Chemist prepared the bill he
 suppose to write on the bill the name of the doctor, name of
 the patient, the name of the medicine, batch number of
 medicine and quantity supplied by him. In some cases, the
 value of the bill jumped by few paise to Rs.50/­. In some
 cases the doctor might have prescribed such medicines as
 Vitamin tablet or liver tablets alongwith antibiotic. During the
 evidence in the Court the doctor of the defendant submitted
 that in several cases prescribing of vitamin tablets or
 prescribing of liver medicines become necessary alongwith
 prescription of other medicines otherwise, the liver of the
 patient gets damaged or medicines eats away the vitamins
 and there is deficiency of the vitamins in the body and the

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 26 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 patient feels weakness. It was also admitted by the doctor
 that prescribing these medicines are essential and even if he
 would have been the doctor of the patient and felt prescribing
 of vitamin and liver necessary, he could have also prescribed
 the same. The Ld. Judge has further opined that the defendant
 had made allegations of fraud but has failed to bring home the
 fraud played by the plaintiff. There is not a single detail of
 fraud, nor single fact of fraud has been proved. I, therefore,
 consider that plaintiff cannot be deprived of the due amount
 only on the flimsy ground that there was no expiry date
 mentioned in the bills, or some of the bills were above Rs.50/­
 or some vitamin tablets and non­admissible items were given
 to the patient as prescribed by the doctor alongwith the
 medicine of ailment. The aforesaid findings of the then Ld. Additional District
Judge were upheld by the Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court in
the RFA No. 632/1998. Vide order/ judgment dated 08.03.1999,
the Hon'ble Division Bench has opined that the Ld. Addl. District
Judge considered all aspects including documentary and oral
evidence for arriving at the conclusion and they see no reason to
interfere with the same and accordingly, the appeal was dismissed
by the said order/ judgment. RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 27 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

 In the present case also, the pleas, which are taken by
the DTC, are similar to the pleas, which were taken in the said
case. The Screening Committee ought to have called upon the
chemist before coming to conclusion qua the retrenchment of the
amount from the bills which were submitted by the plaintiff to the
defendants. The perusal of record reveals that the Screening
Committee has considered the bills only to the tune of
Rs.1,15,268.77/­ and as per the report of the Screening Committee,
the retrenched amount from the said bill is Rs.90,594.86p. After
considering the entire accounts of the plaintiff, the Screening
Committee came to the conclusion that the excess paid amount to
the plaintiff is Rs.27,826.51p. The reasons given by the Screening
Committee were tried to be given by DW­1 and DW­2. The said
reasons were also given at the time of the disposal of the another
case, which was decided by the then Ld. Additional District Judge
and the then Ld. ADJ has rejected the report of the Screening
Committee and decreed the suit of the plaintiff in the said case. The
same was also upheld by the Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court
in RFA No. 632/1998. The Screening Committee has not given any
opportunity to the chemist or the doctors before coming to the
conclusion that the above amount of Rs.90,594.86p is required to
be retrenched from the bills of Rs.1,15,268.77/­. There are various
parties involved in the formation of the chemist bill. Firstly, the
employee of the defendant or the person depended upon the
employee, who is covered under this scheme, goes to the doctor for

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 28 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

his medical check­up. Thereafter, the doctor is required to check­up
the said employee or the person depended upon him and as per the
prescription, the chemist supplies the medicines to the employee or
the concerned person depended upon him, who is covered under
the scheme. The defendant has failed to bring anything on record
to show that the bills, which were submitted by the plaintiff to the
DTC were forged and fabricated by the plaintiff in league and
connivance with the employee of the DTC and/ or empaneled
doctor. There is no criminal complaint or criminal record which
has been produced to show that the bills in question are the part &
parcel of the such scam, which the DTC had alleged in the Written
Statement. The plaintiff has alleged that the Screening Committee
has adjudicated upon the bills, which were already paid to the
plaintiff. The said aspect was not at all disputed by the DTC. The
DTC submitted that entire account has been taken into
consideration and after that the Screening Committee came to the
conclusion that an amount of Rs.27,826.51p is over­paid to the
plaintiff. If the said amount was payable by the plaintiff, then why
the defendant has not filed its own counter­claim and/ or
demanded the said amount from the plaintiff. The Ld. Trial Court has failed to take into consideration
the aforesaid important and vital aspects of the case including the
findings of the case of the similar nature, as detailed hereinabove.
The plaintiff has been able to prove his claim for entitlement for the
amount of Rs.84,293.43/­. The plaintiff has claimed the interest @

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 29 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

18% p.a. from 22.01.1986 but in my considered view, the rate of
interest claimed by the plaintiff is on a very higher side. Section 34 CPC postulates and envisages the pendent­
elite interest at any rate not exceeding 6% and future interest at
any rate not exceeding the rate at which nationalized banks
advanced loan. The Hon'ble Division Bench of Hon'ble High Court of
Delhi in the case of Pt. Munshi Ram & Associates (P) Ltd. V.
DDA , 2010 SCC Online Del 2444 that higher rates of interest
which are against public policy can be struck down by the Court by
finding such rates of interest to be against the public policy. Any
Contract which is against the public policy is void as per Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. The said Judgment was also relied
upon by the Hon'ble Single Bench of the Hon'ble High Court in the
case bearing R.F.A. No.823 of 2004 titled as Shri Sanjay Mittal
Versus Sunil Jain decided on 07.12.2018. Keeping in mind the mandate of the said proposition
and the aforesaid Judgments, interest of justice would be served if
plaintiff is granted simple rate of interest @ 6% per annum from
22.01.1986 till the realization of the principal amount of
Rs.84,293.43/­. Accordingly, in my considered view, the findings of the
Ld. Trial Court are not in accordance with the pleadings and
evidence of the parties and also against well settled principles of law
and accordingly, the findings of the Ld. Trial Court qua issues no.2

RCA No. 02/2014 Page­ 30 of 32
 M/s. Bhardwaj Medicine Center V. DTC

and 3 are liable to be set­aside. Issues no. 2 and 3 are decided in
favour of the plaintiff/appellant and against the
defendant/respondent in the aforesaid terms. The Ld. Trial Court
has already decided issue no.1 in favour of the plaintiff/ appellant
and against the defendant/ respondent and this Court has already
held that this Court does not find any infirmity in the said findings
of the Ld. Trial Court. RELIEF: The copy of this Judgment may kindly be sent forthwith
to the Ld. Trial Court alongwith the record of Trial Court. Appeal file be consigned to record room after due
compliance. Announced in the open court on
this 11th day of November, 2019.