आयकर अपील य अ धकरण,च डीगढ़ यायपीठ, "बी " च डीगढ़
 I N T H E I NC OM E T A X A P PEL L A TE T RI B U N AL
 D I VI SI O N B E NC H , ' B ' CH A N DI G A R H

 ी संजय गग , या यक सद य एवं ीमती अ नपण ू ा ग'ु ता, लेखा सद य
B E F OR E S HR I S A N J A Y GA R G, J U D I C I A L M E MB E R A N D
 M s . A N N A P U R N A G U P T A , A C CO U N T A N T M E MB E R आयकर अपील सं./ ITA Nos. 625 & 626/ C H D / 2 0 1 9 नधा रण वष / Assessment Years : 2013-14 & 2014-15
 Shri Tarun Jain, बनाम The DCIT,
 C/o M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Central Circle-1,
 Pvt Limited, Chandigarh
 Bhatinda
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN NO: AHWPJ2158H
 Appe al against the order of C IT(A) -1, Ludhiana date d 11.3.2018

 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent आयकर अपील सं./ ITA Nos. 627 & 628/ C H D / 2 0 1 9 नधा रण वष / Assessment Years : 2013-14 & 2014-15
 Smt. Rajni Jain, बनाम The DCIT,
 C/o M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Central Circle-1,
 Pvt Limited, Chandigarh
 Bhatinda
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN NO: AANPJ0005H
 Appe al against the order of C IT(A) -1, Ludhiana date d 11.3.2018

 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent आयकर अपील सं./ ITA Nos. 629 & 630/ C H D / 2 0 1 9 नधा रण वष / Assessment Years : 2013-14 & 2015-16
 Sanjay Jain & Sons, बनाम The DCIT,
 C/o M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Central Circle-1,
 Pvt Limited, Chandigarh
 Bhatinda
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN NO: AALHS3790N
 Appe al against the order of C IT(A) -1, Ludhiana date d 11.3.2018

 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 2 आयकर अपील सं./ ITA Nos. 707 to 708/ C H D / 2 0 1 9 नधा रण वष / Assessment Years : 2011-12 & 2012-13

 Shri Sanjay Jain, बनाम The DCIT,
 C/o M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Central Circle-1,
 Pvt Limited, Chandigarh
 Bhatinda
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN NO: ABJPJ5318E
 Appe al against the order of C IT(A) -1, Ludhiana date d 12.3.2018

 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent

 & आयकर अपील सं./ ITA Nos. 709 to 710/ C H D / 2 0 1 9 नधा रण वष / Assessment Years : 2013-14 & 2014-15
 Shri Sanjay Jain, बनाम The DCIT,
 C/o M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Central Circle-1,
 Pvt Limited, Chandigarh
 Bhatinda
 थायी लेखा सं./PAN NO: AHWPJ2158H
 Appe al against the order of C IT(A) -1, Ludhiana date d 11.3.2018

 अपीलाथ /Appellant यथ /Respondent

 नधा रती क ओर से/Assessee by : Shri Sudhir Sehgal, Advocate
 राज व क ओर से/ Revenue by : Smt. Mona Mohanti, CIT DR

 सन
 ु वाई क तार%ख/Date of Hearing : 18.12.2019
 उदघोषणा क तार%ख/Date of Pronouncement : 27.01.2020

 आदे श/Order

Per Bench: 2. Though numerous grounds have been taken by the assessees in all

the appeals, but the main issue being identical in all the appeals,

therefore, these were heard together and are being disposed of by this

common and consolidated order. ITA No. 625/Chd/2019 is taken as

lead case for narration of facts. 3. The grounds raised in this appeal by the assessee are reproduced

as under:- 4. That the learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law by
 upholding the addition without appreciating the documentary
 evidences placed on record and case laws referred by the
 assessee appellant and rebutting the same especially when all
 the conditions of section 10(38) of the Income Tax Act are
 fulfilled. As such, addition confirmed is unjustified. The same
 be deleted. 5. That the learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law by
 upholding the addition by following the single member
 judgement of ITAT, Delhi Bench ignoring two member
 judgements of ITAT. Delhi Bench and judgements of
 jurisdictional High Court. As such, addition confirmed is
 unjustified. The same be deleted. 6. That the learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law by
 upholding the addition on the theory of human probability
 whereas as per facts of the case this theory is not applicable.
 As such, addition confirmed is unjustified. The same be
 deleted. 7. That the learned CIT(A), Ludhiana has erred on facts and in
 law by upholding the addition on the theory of preponderance
 of probability ignoring the explanations furnished and
 material placed on record especially when mere suspicion
 cannot take the character of evidence. As such, addition
 confirmed is unjustified. The same be deleted. 8. That the learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law by
 upholding the addition made u/s 68 of the Income Tax Act
 ignoring the facts that the AO has not examined the details of
 the buyers of shares especially when obligation of the
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 5 assessee appellant in regards to initial explanation has been
 discharged. As such, addition confirmed u/s 68 of the Act is
 illegal and unjustified. The same be deleted. 9. That the learned CIT(A) has erred on facts and in law by
 upholding the addition on the ground that sale receipt of
 share was obtained after paying the money to broker ignoring
 the facts that the AO has not brought on record any evidence
 which may relate to the compensatory payments made by the
 assessee appellant to the buyer of the shares. As such,
 addition confirmed without any evidence is against the
 principle of natural justice. The same be deleted. 10. That the assessee appellant craves to add or amend the
 grounds of appeal. 4. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has submitted that since ground

No.2 is legal ground, the same should be adjudicated first. The Ld. DR

has not objected to the same. Hence, we have heard on the legal issue

raised vide ground No.2 of the appeal. 5. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is an individual

having salary income from M/s Royal Lifestyle Jewellers Pvt. Ltd. in

the capacity of director. The assessee during the year earned long term

capital gain by sale of shares of M/s Presha Mettallurigical Ltd.,

company, amounting to Rs 26,68,215/- and the same had been claimed

as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act in the return of income filed on

24.06.2013. The return of the assessee had been processed u/s 143(1) of

the Act. However, on 11.02.2016, a search action had been carried out

at the premises of assessee and during the search proceedings, the
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 6 assessee was told that the share in which assessee had traded was a

penny stock and as per report of Investigation Wing of Kolkata, price of

the shares had been rigged manually to give bogus Long Term Capital

Gains to the share holders. The assessee, under the above circumstances,

agreed to surrender the LTCG claimed. The surrender was made with a

condition that no penal action would be taken and right to contest the

taxability of the surrendered income in view of any new development in

the matter was reserved. Though the assessee agreed for taxation the

surrendered income in the return of income, however, the assessee

during the assessment proceedings claimed that the said additional

income was not taxable. The assessee stated that during the search

proceedings no incriminating evidence had been found to show that the

claim made by the assessee was not correct. Therefore, the assessee

contested the claim as genuine during the assessment proceedings u/s

153A of the Act. However, the Ld. Assessing Officer relying upon the report of the

Investigation Wing, Koltaka held that the patterns of investment of the

assessee in the shares of M/s Kappac Pharma Ltd and M/s Presha

Metallurgical Ltd. resemble the character of the penny stock done by

the bogus companies based at Kolkata. He, further took note of the fact

that during the search action, the assessee himself had surrendered the

amount in respect of the income from capital gains which was claimed
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 7 as exempt. He, accordingly, made the additions in the assessment

carried out u/s 153A of the Act. 6. Being aggrieved by the above order of the Assessing Officer, the

assessee preferred appeal before the Ld. CIT(A) and pleaded that since

no incriminating material was found during the search action, hence, no

addition could have been made by the Assessing Officer to the income

of the assessee in the already concluded assessment. The assessee in this

respect relied upon the following decisions:- The part of the above judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court,
relevant to the matter in hand, is reproduced below: - It may be true that the assessee has furnished the
documents regarding the sale/purchase of the shares from the
broker and paid STT. But the documents have to be seen
critically and the story of the assessee is to be judged on the test
of human probability. In fact, the story in the case of the assessee
does not pass the test of human probability. It is a known fact in
the market that these (Long Term Capital Gain) are fake entries
and still the assessees take such risk fully knowing that these are
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 12 not genuine transaction, because now-a-days only a small fraction
of return is subject to scrutiny / investigation by the Department
every year. Most of the assessees taking such entries go
unnoticed since their cases do not get selected for scrutiny. This
fact acts as incentive for the others who are allured to take these
non-genuine entries. It is an undisputed fact that at the time of search, the
assessee surrendered the Long Term Capital Gain which was
claimed exempt u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. During
the course of statement recorded u/s 132(4) , the assessee had
submitted that it had earned Long Term Capital Gain as the
period of holding was more than 12 months and the sale have
taken place in a recognized Stock Exchange viz. BSE and STT on
the sale was duly paid, however after discussion with the counsel
and to buy peace of mind, surrendered the amount of capital gain
of Rs. 26,68,215/- in assessment year 2013-14 and Rs.
18,78,643/- in assessment year 2014-15 to Income Tax as
'income from other sources' for the relevant assessment years
with a right to contest the taxability in view of any new
development in the matter. It is however noted that all these facts
have remained the same and there is no new development
regarding the sales and purchase of shares, the income from
which was surrendered and in fact for assessment year 2014-15,
the assessee revised the return and paid the tax. Since, the facts
for the two years are similar, there is no reason for not paying the
tax for assessment year 2013-14. It is duly brought on record by
the AO that M/s. Presha Metallurgical Ltd. is also a penny stock
and its weak financial position, suspicious pattern of rigging of
share price, very low creditworthiness etc. are similar to that of
M/s. Kappac Pharma Ltd. in respect of which the assessee has
paid the tax. It is also relevant to mention that as per records, the other
members of the assessee group have also taken such type of
entries and during the search u/s 132 accepted generation of
unaccounted income, the group members surrendered these
amounts and paid tax on the same and also revised their returns
for assessment year 2014-15. The amount surrendered by
different family members were Rs. 42,76,242/- by Sh. Sanjay
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 13 Jain, Rs. 45,42,855/- by Smt. Rajni Jain, Rs. 18,78,643/- by Sh.
Tarun Jain and Rs. 31,65,198 by Sanjay Jain & Sons (HUF) for
assessment year 2014-15 and all of them revised their returns and
paid tax on these amounts. This was in fact an unscrupulous
method adopted by the assessee (group) to reintroduce the
unaccounted income. The picture becomes clear when we see the
whole arrangement as discussed by the AO in the assessment
order while discussing modus operandi of misuse of Long Term
Capital Gain for re-introducing the unaccounted income. The
funds are been given to the operator who gives cheque which is
deposited by the assessee in the bank and shown as 'Long Term
Capital Gain' as in the present case. Had it been true that there
was so much appreciation in the shares then question arises why
the brokers themselves did not invest funds in these shares and
earned the profit themselves? Also there are whole time brokers
at Mumbai and other metros whose only job is to earn profit by
ng in shares, then how these shares escaped their attention. There
are Mutual d|\Managers also whose whole time job is to invest in
the shares where the returns are maximum and if the profit shown
by the assessee was genuine then how this escaped the attention
of these Mutual Fund Managers. On the above facts, it can be
seen that the apparent is not real and the modus-operandi adopted
to assessment order. Regarding the level of proof to substantiate
the above modus-operandi, it is observed that in the criminal
proceedings, the level of proof required is 'beyond reasonable
doubts' whereas in the civil proceedings the level of proof
required is 'preponderance of probability'. It has been held by the
Higher Courts that during the Income Tax assessment
proceedings, the level of proof required is that of 'preponderance
of probability' and if the Assessing Officer is able to substantiate
his action upto this level, then the addition is required to be
upheld. In the present case, on the test of 'preponderance of
probability', it is not believable that assessee would earn such a
huge profit on the sales of these shares. It is also not understood
how the assessee came to know about these shares which were
traded at faraway place and the company is not a prominent one.
The assessee has past experience of trading in shares but never
had such profit in the past or in the future except these two years.
It is highly improbable that such huge profit is earned on the
shares of an unknown company making losses or having nominal
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 14 income. Such type of profit is unrealistic, is also supported by the
fact that even the Government of India is advising the Citizens
not to be allured by the promise of high returns. The Citizens are
cautioned that such high returns are not possible and investment
should not be made on the promise of such high returns. For this,
an Investment Protection Program is run by the 'Investor
Education and Protection Fund Authority' (Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Government of India) and regular
advertisement/advisories are given on the national channels of
Doordarshan and other prominent channel for the benefit of the
Citizens. If such type of incomes/returns, as declared by the
assessee were possible, then why should the Government deprive
its Citizens of such benefits? Further, the existence of paper
companies which are used for the purpose of money laundering
and providing accommodation entries, has been accepted by the
Government of India and a number of such companies have been
de-registered and deleted from the records of Registrar of
Companies. In the present case, the action has been taken by the
Bombay Stock Exchange against the companies from whose
shares the assessee has shown profit. This amply proves that
showing the receipts from the companies will not make the funds
genuine when the source itself is non-genuine. In fact there are
number of persons/brokers dealing in shares throughout the
country and spent almost whole of their life in the business, still
they could never lay hand on such huge profits in the share
transactions and they only earn a nominal profit/loss. On the 'test
of preponderance of probability', the earning of such huge profits
as shown by the assessee is found as non-genuine. It is in fact,
assessee's own unaccounted funds which were given to the
brokers who issued cheque in favor of the assessee, which have
been shown as receipts on sale of shares. The operator has
charged a commission and arranged the various documents to
give the whole transacation a color of genuinity, when in fact no
such high profit is possible in such a short period of time. The
shares were purchased off-line and there was no contract note
regarding the purchase/sale of shares. It is relevant to mention
that for one assessment year, the assessee has surrendered the
amount and paid tax on such type of transaction. All these things
point to a make belief story because such thing does not happen
in real world. Infact this did not happen with the assessee also
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 15 and the cheque shown as 'sale receipt of shares' was obtained
after paying the money to the broker who arranged the
transaction. Such types of method are in fact colorable device to
launder the unaccounted fund of the assessee. The appellate
authorities can also not turn a blind eye to realities around and the
reality is that nobody can earn such huge profit as claimed by the
assessee. In fact, it is assessee's own unaccounted money which
has been reintroduced as capital gains claimed as exempt income.
If what has been claimed by the assessee was a reality, then what
the broker, who arranged the transactions, waiting for? He should
also have earned such profit instead of charging nominal
commission. The story of the assessee is not found acceptable on
the test of human probability. The matter gains further strength
from the order of Bombay Stock Exchange order referred by the
AO in the assessment order. It has been held by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court that "Tax planning may be legitimate provided it
is within the framework of law. Colorable devices cannot be part
of tax planning and it is wrong to encourage or entertain the
belief that it is honorable to avoid the payment of tax by resorting
to dubious methods. It is the obligation of very citizen to pay the
taxes honestly without resorting to subterfuges ". The AO drew adverse inference based upon the
investigation carried out by DIT, Investigation, Kolkata. The
large increase in the value of shares in short time led the AO to
draw adverse inference in this case and in fact the assessee has
also accepted this position and surrendered the amount at the time
of search and then -revised the return and paid the tax for
assessment year 2014-15. The AR relied upon case laws and
argued that no such inference was called for. A perusal of the
reply shows that the purchases have not been made in cash and
this fact creates doubt about the genuineness of the transactions
and supports the conclusion that it was merely an arrangement to
reintroduce the unaccounted funds of the assessee in the bank
account. In the recent judgment, the Hon'ble ITAT has held, vide
its order dated 08.01.2019 regarding the misuse of Long Term
Capital Gain in the case of Anip Rastogi vs. ITO in ITA No.
3809/Del/2018 and Anju Rastogi vs. ITO in ITA No.
3810/Del/2018 for the assessment year 2015-16, as under:- Brief facts o f the case are that assessee is an individual
earning rental income, income from medical profession
and interests on deposits with banks, during the relevant
year. The assessee filed his ITR for the relevant year on
22.09.2015, declaring a total income o f Rs. 9,39,250/-.
The return filed him was selected for scrutiny assessment
which were completed vide order dated 18.12.2017,
passed u/s. 143(3) o f the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short
Act") making an addition o f Rs. 22,28,172/-, holding that
the exempt long term capital gain earned by the assessee
on sale o f shares o f M / s CCL International Ltd., was not
genuine and the same was bogus. Against the assessment
order, the Assessee appealed before the Ld. CIT(A) vide
his impugned order dated 20.4.2018 has dismissed the
appeal o f the assessee. Aggrieved with the order o f the id.
CIT(A), assessee appealed before the Tribunal. 5. During the hearing, Ld. counsel for the assessee has
submitted that the addition in dispute was made and
confirmed purely on presumptions, conjecture and
surmises and therefore, deserve to be deleted. He further
submitted that the authorities below have failed in
disallowing deduction claimed by the assessee u/s. 10(38) o f the Act for Rs. 22,28,172/-. It was further submitted
that lower authorities failed to appreciate that the amount
o f L TCG earned by the assessee on STT paid sales o f
listed equity shares o f M/s CCL International Ltd.,
ignoring the evidences, documents and case laws relied
upon by the assessee. It was further submitted that the
nothing has been brought on record to show any linking
between the alleged entry operators whose statements
have been relied upon and the assessee. The evidences and
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 17 arguments used by the authorities below are generic in
nature and can in no sense be related to the assessee. He
further submitted that the addiion made was without any
basis and without brining on record any corroborative
material found during the course o f assessment
proceedings and also by completely ignoring the well-
established law that no addition can be made solely on the
basis o f statements 8 recorded on oath during the course
o f survey conducted by the Investigation Wing o f Income
Tax, Kolkata and departmental^ communicated to the
A.O., without making his own independent enquiry and
efforts. Hence, he requested to cancel the orders o f the
authorities below and allow the appeal o f the assessee. In
support o f his contention, he filed a Paper Book
containing pages 1 to 55 in which he has attached the
copy o f written submissions dated 20.4.2018 as filed
before the Ld. CIT(A), Meerut; photocopy o f sale note
and confirmation from M/s Sai Securities for purchase o f
shares o f M/s CCL International Ltd. as filed before the
Ld. CIT(A), Meerut; photocopy o f the relevant bank
statement o f the assessee showing payment for purchase
o f shares as filed before the CIT(A); photocopy o f
statement o f D-MAT account o f the assessee, as
maintained by him with Mansukh Securities and Finance
Ltd. as filed before the CIT(A), Meerut; photocopy o f the
sale note o f the shares sold as filed before the CIT(A),
Meerut; Photocopy o f the stock trading details as
downloaded from website o f BSE India as filed before the
CIT(A); Financial details o f M/s CCL International Ltd.
for FY's 2012-13 to 16017 as downloaded from the
website o f money control.com as filed before the Ld.
CIT(A); photocopy o f submissions dated 4.10.2017 &
28.11.2017 as filed before the AO during the assessment
proceedings; copy o f judgment o f Hon'ble 9 Delhi High
Court in the case o f PCIT & Ors. vs. Best Infrastructure
India Pvt. Ltd. (2017) 3 9 7 I T R 0082; copy o f Hon'ble
Delhi High Court in the case o f CIT vs. Ashwani Gupta (2010) 322 ITR 0396; judgment o f Hon'ble High Court o f
Madhya Pradesh in the case of Prakash Chand Nahata vs.
CIT (2008) 301 ITR 134 and copy o f judgment o f Hon'ble
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 18 High Court o f Bombay in the case o f CIT vs. M/s Ashish
International (2011) ITA no. 4299 o f 2009; ITAT, Delhi
'SMC Bench decision dated 25.9.2018 in ITA Nos. 20121/Del/2018 to 2028/Del/2018 in the case o f Shoubit
Goel (HUF) & Ors. vs. ITO ; ITAT, Delhi SMC decision
dated 24.10.2018 in the case o f A m i t Rastogi (HUF) &
Ors. vs. ITO in ITA No. 2128, 2129, 2131 &
2132/Del/2018 (AY 2015-16) and SMC, ITAT, Delhi
Decision dated 5.11.2018 in the case of Arun Kumar &
Ors. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 457, 2825 & 2826/Del/2018). 6. On the other hand, Ld. DR relied upon the orders o f the
authorities below. He further stated that assessee has not
substantiated his claim before the revenue authorities. He
stated that assessee hasd generated bogus entries o f long
term capital gains on sale o f penny stocks and claimed the
same to be exempted under section 10(38) of the Act. In
this case the Investigation Wing at Kolkata had carried
out country wise investigation to unearth the organized
racket o f generating bogus entries o f long term capital 10
gains which is exempt from tax. It was further submitted
that the assessee had purchased 5000 equity shares o f
M/s CCL International Ltd. for Rs. 2,00,000/- on
15.4.2013 in o f f market transaction @ Rs. 40.00 per
share from Sai Securities. These shares were sold by the
assessee through stock broker M/s Mansukh Securities and
Finance Ltd. ranging from Rs. 492.50 to 481.20 per share.
He further submitted that the payment for purchase o f
shares has been debited from assessee account through
cheque for a sum o f R s . 2,00,000/- was debited whereas
the sale note was dated 15.4.2013, which proves that the
transaction was an afterthought and the buyer has back
dated the transaction. The shares were purchased through
o f f market deals o f unknown company. In view o f the
above assessee failed to prove the genuineness o f the
alleged long term capital gain claimed to have been
earned by the assessee. He further stated that the case
laws relied upon by the AO as well as Ld. CIT(A) may be
read as his arguments including the decision o f the
Hon'ble Supreme Court o f India In the case o f Sumati
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 19 Dayal vs. CIT and in the case o f Mc Dowell and Company
Limited, 154 ITR 148. 7. I have heard both the parties and perused the records
especially the impugned order. I note that the assessee has
shown Long Term Capital Gain amounting to Rs.
22,28,172/- earned during 1 1 the FY 2014-15 and exempt u/s. 10(38) o f the I.T. Act, 1961 . The assessee was asked
to explain the source o f aforesaid Long Term Capital
Gain during the course o f scrutiny proceedings. The
explanation offered that it is sale proceeds o f shares are
found to be unsatisfactory. The explanation o f the
assessee is general in nature that as the transaction is
through Stock Exchange and the payment is by cheque, the
transactions should be treated as genuine. Further,
regarding the statement o f Sh. Jai Kishan Poddar the
assessee has only stated that in the statement there is no
specific link with the claim o f exemption in respect o f
Long Term Capital Gain o f Rs. 22,78,172/- u/s. 10(38) by
him. He has not stated a thing with respect to the
statement o f Sh. Jai Kishan Poddar in which he has
accepted that facilitation o f accommodation entries o f
long term capital gain I long term capital loss through his
share banking firm has been done to few beneficiaries with
the help o f different accommodation entry operators,
promoters o f the scripts o f various penny stocks other
brokers etc. Sh. Jai Kishan Poddar also gave details o f
different bogus scripts/ penny stocks which have been used
for providing the accommodation entries o f LTCG and
LTCL to different beneficiaries using his brokerage
company Consortium Capital Pvt. Ltd. and the name o f
CCL International Limited having scrip name CCL Inter
appears in the list whose 12 shares were sold by the
assessee and exemption on LTCG amounting to Rs.
22,28,172/- claimed u/s. 10(38) o f the Act. After perusing
the records, I find that in the instant case the investment in
shares made by the assessee reveals that he has not been
dealing in shares on a regular basis and the entries o f
LTCG have also been taken by other members o f the
assessee company and the purchase o f these shares were
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 20 claimed to be through off market deals and not through
Stock Exchange. The financials o f penny stock company
M/s CCL International Ltd. and movement o f its price are
abrupt, unrealistic and based upon any realistic
parameters. From the perusal o f financial statements o f
the aforesaid company M/s CCL International Ltd. from
the Ministry o f Corporate Affairs website (MCA)
examining the information available in the public domain
from where it was observed that there is no extraordinary
increase in the profits o f the company to justify the
increase in value o f the shares. I further note that
Investigation Wing had recorded the statement o f Sh. Jai
Kishan Poddar who is one o f the Director o f M/s
Consortium Capital Pvt. Ltd. which is one o f the entities
utilised for providing entry o f bogus long term capital
gain o f M/s C C L International Ltd. who had admitted
that he was involved in scam o f providing bogus long
term capital gains through shares o f M/s CCL
International Ltd. had also admitted that they were also 13
involved in trading o f these Jamakharchi Companies
through which manipulative transactions in securities to
either artificially raise or lower the market rate o f the
shares are being done. I also note that the independent
findings o f the AO, which are corroborated by the
information given by the Investigation Wing, the assessee
has failed to substantiate the genuineness o f alleged share
transactions in respect o f long term capital gain u/s.
10(38) o f the Act. In view o f above discussions, the
landmark decision o f the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case o f McDowell and Company Limited, 154 ITR 148
are squarely applicable in this case wherein it has been
held that tax planning may be legitimate provided it is
within the framework o f the law and any colourable
devices cannot be part o f tax planning and it is wrong to
encourage or entertain the belief that it is honourable to
avoid the payment o f tax by dubious methods. However,
the case laws cited by the Ld. counsel for the assessee are
on distinguished facts, hence, not applicable in the instant
case. The assessee has not argued any other ground
mentioned in the grounds o f appeal, but only argued on
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 21 merit for which assessee has failed to substantiate his
 claim before the lower revenue authorities as well as
 before this Bench. In view o f above discussions, I am o f
 the considered opinion that Ld. CIT(A) has rightly
 confirmed the addition in dispute, which does not need any
 interference on my 14 part, therefore, I uphold the action
 o f the Ld. CIT(A) on the issue in dispute and reject the
 grounds raised by the Assessee. In the result, the appeal
 o f the assessee is dismissed. 8. Since in other appeal i.e. in the case o f Anju Rastogi, ITA No. 3810/Del/2018 (AY 2015-16), similar facts are permeating and same finding has been given, therefore,
 my finding given above will apply mutatis mutandis in this
 also, because the nature o f transactions, evidences and
 documents are exactly the same. Thus, both the appeals
 are treated as dismissed." It is relevant to mention here that in the case of Smt. Harjit
Kaur Vs. ACIT ; the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in
ITA No.280 of 2013 upheld the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT
Chandigarh holding that the department cannot bake or accept
'make believe transactions' as held by the Hon'ble ITAT
Chandigarh Bench. The Tribunal in that case relied upon the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Durga
Parsad More, 82 ITR 540 and McDowell & Company Ltd., 154
ITR 148 also. The Hon'ble ITAT, Chandigarh held that it is
essential on the part of the revenue authority, to look into the real
nature of the transaction and what happens in the real word and
contextualize the same to such transactions in the real market
situation. The following observations of the Hon'ble ITAT are
worth mentioning here:- The Relevant observations and findings of Hon'ble
Supreme Court, in the matter of discharge of onus of proof and
the relevance of surrounding circumstances of the case are that
though an appellant's statement must be considered real until it
was shown that there were reasons to believe that the apparent
was not the real, in a case where the party relied on self-serving
recitals, the taxing authorities were entitled to look into the
surrounding circumstances to find out the reality of such recitals. In view of the facts of the case, the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of CIT Vs. Durga Parsad More is applicable that
the Income Tax Authorities are entitled to look into surrounding
circumstances to find out the reality. The decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Sumati Dyal Vs. CIT 214 ITR 801 is also
relevant where it has been held that matter has to be considered in
the light of human probability. Merely because the payments
were made by cheques and received by cheque does not render
the transaction genuine. Given the circumstances, it is quite
apparent that the paper documents filed by the appellant are sham
and the paper evidence has been created although these are not
genuine because once, during the course of investigation by the
Investigation Wing of the Department at Kolkata and the
investigation by the SEBI/BSE, the transactions in shares have
been proved to be not genuine, then how the funds received from
such source can be genuine in the hands of the assessee. The
genuine funds could come from a genuine source only and the
funds received from a non-genuine source cannot be genuine. Further, according to Section 68 , the primary burden is on
the assessee to satisfactorily explain the credit entries in the
accounts of the previous year. If the explanation given by the
assessee is not satisfactory or the source offered by the assessee is
not genuine, the amount is to be taken as the income of the
assessee. The explanation regarding the nature and source of
credit should be satisfactory in the opinion of the assessing
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 23 authority and Section 68 sets up a presumption against the
assessee whenever unexplained credits are found in the accounts
of the assessee. The initial burden is on the assessee to refute the
presumption raised and the burden shifts only when the assessee
establishes the authenticity of the transactions. Section 68 applies
equally to money received by the assessee shown as sale of
shares and the burden is on the assessee to prove the nature and
source thereof to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer
regarding the three ingredients i.e. proof regarding identity of the
purchaser, the creditworthiness to purchase the shares and the
genuineness of the transaction as a whole. The burden of proving
the source of a cash credit is on the assessee and the Assessing
Officer is not required to prove the source. Mere furnishing of
particulars is not enough, mere payment by account payee by
cheque is not sacrosanct as held in Hindustan Tea Trading Co.
Ltd. vs CIT 2003 [263 ITR 289, 297 (Cal)]. Where there is
unexplained credit, it is open to the Assessing Officer to hold that
it is income of the assessee and no further burden lies on the
Assessing Officer to show that the income is from any particular
source as held in CIT vs. Devi Prasad Viswanath Prasad 1969 72
ITR 194 (SC). The case laws quoted by the AR are not applicable to the
facts of the present case as in the present case the genuineness of
the transaction has not been established because on investigation,
the existence of the company M/s. Presha Metallurgical Ltd. has
not been established and it was revealed that the company was
not carrying out any business activities and nobody knew about
the existence of the company at the given address. From the facts,
it is clear that the assessee has infact re-introduced its
unaccounted income in the shape of Long Term Capital Gain by
routing it through paper companies who have no real business or
activities and are created on papers for such type of sham
transactions. The persons operating such paper companies
complete the paper formalities but no real business/ activities are
carried out by these companies. The bank accounts are opened
and operated only to launder money and provide accommodation
entries. It is an accepted principle of jurisprudence that in certain
exceptional cases the court is entitled to lift the veil of corporate
entity and to pay regard to the economic realities behind the legal
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 24 facade. The court has power to disregard the corporate entity if it
used for tax evasion or to circumvent tax obligation or to
perpetrate s held in Juggilal Kamlapat v. CIT , (1969) 73 ITR 702
(SC); Union of India v. Playworld Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (1990)
184 ITR 308, 317 (SC); CIT v. Sri Meenakshi Mills Ltd. , (1967)
63 ITR 609, 616 (SC) etc. Further the legislature can forge a
sledge- hammer capable of cracking open the corporate shell; and
it can, if it chooses, demand that the courts ignore all the
conceptions and principles which are at the root of company law
[Bank Voor Handel enScheepvart N.V. v. Slatford, (1953) 1QB
248]. The facts and circumstances of the case, as mentioned
above, clearly suggest that the revenue cannot take or accept such
'make believe transaction', as presented by the appellants. Truth
or genuineness of such transactions must prevail over the smoke
screen, created by way of premeditated series of steps taken by
the appellants, with a view to imparting a colour of genuineness
and character of real receipt as sale of shares. Needless to say that
one has to look at the whole transactions and a series of steps
taken to accomplish such share transactions, in an integrated
manner, with a view to ascertaining the true nature and character
of the money received. The assessee has not been able to identify
the purchaser of the shares (sold by the assessee) and their
creditworthiness to substantiate the genuineness of the
transactions. The plea that the sale proceeds have come through
account payee cheques loses all force in the light of the material
gathered by the Investigation Wing about the modus operandi
followed by the operators. In view of the said facts and
circumstances, the Assessing Officer was justified in making the
addition u/s 68 after granting adequate opportunity to the
appellant and after duly rebutting the submissions of the
appellant. Moreover the amount himself surrendered by the
assessee in the statement u/s 132(4) during the course of search
and in fact paid tax and revised return for assessment year 2014- 15. Therefore, under the facts and circumstances of the case, the
arguments of the AR are not found acceptable and the action of
the AO in making the addition of Rs. 26,68,215/- u/s 68 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 is found sustainable. The AO has duly
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 25 mentioned the facts and the legal position in support of the
addition made on the issue and hence the addition is confirmed. Accordingly, these grounds of appeal are dismissed. 4.3 Ground of Appeal No. 8 is of general in nature and it has
been contended that the reversal of surrender was on account of
fulfillment of other conditions and it cannot be made a ground for
making the addition. It is however a fact accepted by the
appellant that a surrender u/s 132(4) was made during the search
which was however not honored later on for the year under
consideration. The AO has relied upon the statement recorded
during the search as per the provisions of section 132(4) of the
Income Tax Act, 1961, which mandates that statements made
may be used as evidence in any proceedings under the Income
Tax Act, 1961 . For clarity, the provision of section 132(4) is
reproduced below:- [Explanation- for the removal o f doubts, it is hereby
 declared that the examination o f any person under this
 sub-section may not be merely in respect o f any books o f
 account, other documents or assets found as a result o f
 the search, but also in respect o f all matters relevant for
 the purpose o f any investigation connected with any
 proceeding under the Indian Income-Tax Act, 1922 (11 o f
 1922), or under this Act.]" 5. Rathi Steel Ltd. V/s Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax
 56 CH 102 DEL-TRIB
 6 Naresh Kumar Agarwal [2015] 53 taxmann.com 306 (A.P.)

 7 CIT vs Sunil Agarwal [2015] 64 taxman.com 107 ( Delhi High Court)

 8 Basant Bansal vs ACIT [2015] 63 taxmann.com 199 (Jaipur Trib.) 11. We have gone through the above decisions as also the other

decisions relied upon by the Ld. Counsel for the assessee. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of 'Pr. CIT vs Best

Infrastructure (India) Pvt. Ltd ' has observed that the statement recorded

u/s 132(4) of the Act do not themselves constitute incriminating

material. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in this respect had also

distinguished the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of 'Smt. Dayawanti Gupta vs CIT ' [2016] 390 ITR 496. The relevant part of the

observations made are reproduced as under;- ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 29 "38. Fifthly, statements recorded under Section 132 (4) of the
 Act of the Act do not by themselves constitute incriminating
 material as has been explained by this Court in Commissioner
 of Income Tax v. Harjeev Aggarwal (supra). Lastly, as
 already pointed out hereinbefore, the facts in the present case
 are different from the facts in Smt. Dayawanti Gupta v. CIT (supra) where the admission by the Assessees themselves on
 critical aspects, of failure to maintain accounts and admission
 that the seized documents reflected transactions of unaccounted
 sales and purchases, is non-existent in the present case. In the
 said case, there was a factual finding to the effect that the
 Assessees were habitual offenders, indulging in clandestine
 operations whereas there is nothing in the present case,
 whatsoever, to suggest that any statement made by Mr. Anu
 Aggarwal or Mr. Harjeet Singh contained any such admission. 39. For all the aforementioned reasons, the Court is of the view
 that the ITAT was fully justified in concluding that the
 assumption of jurisdiction under Section 153A of the Act qua
 the Assessees herein was not justified in law." Further, The Hon'ble A.P. High Court in the case of "Naresh

Kumar Agarwal" (2015) 53 taxmann.com 306 (Andhra Pradesh) has

observed that where, in the absence of any incriminating material etc.

found from the premises of the assessee during the course of search,

statement of assessee recorded under section 132(4) would not have any

evidentiary value. Similar view has been adopted by the Jaipur bench of

the Tribunal in the case of " Shree Chand Soni vs. DCIT " (2006) 101 TTJ

1028 (Jodhpur). The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of " CIT vs. Harjeev

Agarwal " in ITA No.8/2004 vide order dated 10.03.16 has observed that
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 30 a statement made under section 132(4) of the Act on a stand-alone basis,

without reference to any other material discovered during search and

seizure operation, would not empower the AO to make a block

assessment merely because any admission was made by the assessee

during search operation. In the case of " Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Sunil Agarwal " In the case of " Basant Bansal vs. ACIT " reported in (2015)63

taxmann.com 199 (Jaipur Trib.), having somewhat similar facts, the

assessee therein, during the search and seizure action u/s 132 of the Act,

offered a summary discloser of income as undisclosed and the

department accepted the summary surrender of income and thereafter

advance tax for the said surrendered of income was also deposited, but

thereafter it was contended by the assessee that the surrender was made

under threat or coercion and that no incriminating material was found

during the search action. The stand of the department was that the

admission was voluntary and was not under a mistaken belief of fact or

law and that the assistance had enough time to go through the facts of

their case, law applicable in their case and take advice from their

counsels and advisors before filing the letter of surrender of

undisclosed/unaccounted income and that the admission by them was

final and binding on them; The co-ordinate Jaipur Bench of the

Tribunal, after overall appreciation of the fact and evidences before it,

observed that the assessee's surrender was not based on any
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 32 incriminating material and that the discloser being not voluntary and

extracted by the department in creating a coercive situation cannot be

relied solely to be basis of addition as undisclosed income. The co- ordinate bench of the Tribunal while relying upon various case laws of

the higher authorities observed that it is well settled legal position that

merely on the basis of a statement which is not supported by the

department with cogent corroborative material cannot be a valid basis

for sustaining such ad-hoc addition. The co-ordinate Jaipur Bench of

the Tribunal (supra) further observed that the issue of existence of

pressure, threat, coercion during search proceedings is to be judged by

reference to the existing facts and circumstances, human conduct and

preponderance of possibilities. During the search proceedings, record

relating thereto being in exclusive custody of the searching officers, it

is their wish and will which prevails during the fateful period. That it is

almost impossible for the assessee to adduce demonstrative evidence of

exerting such pressure. The co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal (supra)

while holding so, apart from relying upon various decisions of the

higher courts has also relied upon the decision of the Tribunal in the

case of " Dy CIT vs. Pramukh Builders " (2008) 112 ITD 179 (Ahd.)

wherein it has been held that even in the absence of proof of coercion or

pressure, the statement by itself cannot be taken as conclusive. Therefore, merely in the absence of proof of pressure, threat, coercion
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 33 or inducement the statement cannot be held as conclusive and additions

cannot be made by solely relying on a statement or a letter. 12. Even the CBDT Letter No.286/2/2003-IT(Inv) dated Oct 3, 2003

in this respect read as under: 13. A perusal of the above circular also shows that it is in the notice

of the statutory controlling body of the Income Tax Authorities that the

revenue officials are used to take confessional statements from the

person searched under force, pressure or threat and that is why they

have made it mandatory that additions solely on the basis on such

statements should not be made and that corroborative evidences should

be collected or obtained before making such additions. The circular of

the CBDT is binding on the revenue officials. In the facts and

circumstances of this case, when seen in the light of above case laws

and CBDT circular, additions in this case cannot be said to be justifiably

made. 14. So far as the legal question raised by way of additional ground

regarding contesting of the impugned addition made / despite the income

being offered in the return of income is concerned, the issue is squarely

covered by the decision of the Coordinate Mumbai Bench of the

Tribunal in 'Shri Pandoo P. Naig, vs ACIT' ITA No. 7089/Mum/2011 &

Others vide order dated 24.6.2016. The relevant part of the findings of

the order of the Tribunal are reproduced as under:- and " Godavari Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. CIT " by way of a
common order dated 30.04.1992 (1993) 199 ITR 351 has
observed that the basic purpose of an appeal procedure
in an income tax matter is to ascertain the correct tax
liability of the assessee in accordance with law.
Therefore, at both the stages, either by the Appellate
Assistant Commissioner or before the Appellate
Tribunal, the appellate authority can consider the
proceedings before it and the material on record before
it for the purpose of determining the correct tax liability
of the assessee. The appellate authorities, of course,
cannot travel beyond the proceedings and examine new
source of income, for that purpose other separate
remedies are provided to the department under the Income Tax Act . The Hon'ble full bench of the Bombay
High Court observed that apart from the above, there
was nothing in section 254 or section 251 which would
indicate that the appellate authorities are confined to
considering only the objections raised before them or
allowed to be raised before them either by the assessee
or by the department, as the case may be. They can
consider the entire proceedings to determine the tax
liability of the assessee. ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 37 The Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of
" CIT vs. Pruthvi Brokers and Shareholders Pvt. Ltd. "
(2012) 349 ITR 336 (Bom.) has observed that the
assessee is entitled to raise not merely additional legal
submissions before the appellate authorities, but is also
entitled to raise additional clams before them. The
appellate authorities have jurisdiction to deal not merely
with additional grounds, which became available on
account of change of circumstances or law, but with
additional grounds which were available when the return
was filed. The words 'could not have been raised' must
be construed liberally and not strictly. There may be
several factors justifying the raising of a new plea in an
appeal and each case must be considered on its own
facts. The co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case
of "Shri Chandrashekhar Bahirwani" ITA
No.7810/M/2010 and 6599/M/2011 vide order dated
17.06.2015 while deciding the question as to whether
the income cannot be assessed less than the returned
income has observed as under: 16. In view of the above observation, we hold that the
 Ld. CIT(A) though, rightly admitted the question of law
 as to whether the income offered by the assessee in the
 return of income consequent to offer made in his
 statement recorded during the survey action can be
 challenged before the appellate authority, but wrongly
 decided the same in favour of revenue. In view of our
 findings given above and in view of the various case
 laws as discussed above, we have no hesitation to hold
 that the additional income was returned by the assessee
 perhaps under force, pressure, threat or coercion and
 under the mistaken belief. The assessee, in our view,
 was not liable to pay tax on the said additional income
 returned. We, accordingly direct the Department to
 refund the taxes, if any, paid by the assessee in respect
 of additional income offered during the survey action." The issue is accordingly decided in favour of the assessee. In view of our observations made above, the appeal of the assessee

is hereby allowed and the impugned addition made by the Assessing

Officer are ordered to be deleted and if the assessee has already paid

any taxes in respect of the impugned addition, the same be refunded to

the assessee. Since the facts in all the captioned appeals are identical and the

identical legal issue has been raised in all the appeals either through the
 ITA Nos. 625 to 630 & 707 to 710-chd-2019
 Shri Tarun Jain & Others, Ludhiana 40 main grounds or through additional ground of appeal, hence, in view of

our findings given above on the legal issue, all the aforesaid captioned

appeals of the assessees stand allowed. Order pronounced in the Open Court on 27.01.2020

 Sd/- Sd/- (अ नपण
 ू ा ग'ु ता / ANNAPURNA GUPTA) (संजय गग / SANJAY GARG)
 लेखा सद य/ Accountant Member या यक सद य/ Judicial Member
Dated : 27.01.2020
"आर.के." आदे श क त,ल-प अ.े-षत/ Copy of the order forwarded to :