SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Pandemic forcing me to stay with my mother much longer than I intended which showed the extent of my incompatibility with her now
DATE: 2020-09-03
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ilx0gv/pandemic_forcing_me_to_stay_with_my_mother_much/

--- POST TEXT ---

Warning : Writing the post in frustration. Too long. TL;DR at the end.

I have just graduated during the pandemic. I moved out of state for my undergraduate studies. Over the past 4 years, I have seen and learnt so much. I realized that I was a fish in a pond before I got out. Admittedly, even though I was good at academics and extra-curriculars at school, I was very naïve. I studied in a town all my school life.

Going to college of high standards was a real eye opener. I realized that I was nothing. There are literally hundreds out there who are better than me. It is pretty hypercompetitive out there. I've always had a burning desire to achieve something out of life. Or in American lingo, I have a chip on my shoulder. I attribute this to my lower middle class upbringing and my inferiority complex I have struggled with through out my childhood(partly because my mother was a teacher in the same school I attended.). I had screwed up my 1st sem due to various reasons. Mental illness was what I realized later. I worked very hard and improved my grades a lot. At the same time, I was involved in many extra-curriculars and event organizing because not only was I interested in those things, I knew that those will look good on my CV in the future. I have made amazing friends who have helped me expand my horizons and who became my family. Throughout all this, I changed. I became more refined. More liberal. More "educated".

Coming back home was never a pleasant experience. My mother divorced my good for nothing father after many years(Thank God!). She is alone all year unless I came home. Which was a for few moths a year during vacations. Every time I came home, I used to realize this gulf that was just widening between me and my mother. Now, in the pandemic, we are forced to interact much more than we would like.

First, the whole our culture and how we should protect it shit. Oh god! This! She uses cow urine to "treat" her ear pain. Goes to great pain using copper vessel for water(boiled). Organic food is supposed to be so much better than regular food even though there is literally no scientific evidence suggesting anything like this. The whole stupid support for AYUSH medicine. Oh God! I try to tell her to use a little bit of critical thinking. I send her a few science articles as proof showing how all such things are just a huge money grabbing scam. Nope. Apparently, I am the idiot and asshole because I am the only one that doesn't believe it when the whole world believes this. I really blame the whole PR machinery of BJP/RSS for turning my mother into this insular person who suddenly discovered all the great things about ancient India that were earlier suppressed by the people in power.

I hate that she watches the jarring and cringe-worthy Indian TV content. She insists to put it on every time we eat even though I hate it. Saying she doesn't like watching other language content while eating. But, what about me? Every second I am in the presence of that content feels like an attack on whatever I learnt over the years. I tried explaining how wrong some the content is, like cringy LGBT portrayal, female derision, parent-sentiment porn, poverty porn (by porn I mean the stupid sob stories that are shown for TRP). Even all the stupid and irritating noice they make. This is our biggest fight point. I gave up after a point because I just could not bear the TV assault and the mental pain from the fight at the same time.

I disagree with her on many other philosophical stuff as well. She isn't able to comprehend that me disagreeing doesn't mean I am calling her wrong. She resorts to name calling and sometimes tells how I should not have received all this education. Whenever I try to reason with her and discuss, she thinks we are fighting. I tell communication is important, she tells it is better to stay silent and sweep it under the rug. Apparently, even girls don't talk this much(I am a guy).

I have been offered a prestigious govt. job straight out of college. I am happy to do it but I intend to leave it after a few years and do an MBA so as to climb the financial ladder faster. Because, I know that it is govt. job at the end of the day, deeply frustrating and snails growth pace. Takes decades to reach any meaningful position. It took me more than 2 years now to convince her that it wasn't a bad decision. She got convinced once I told her the average packages that Top Business school graduates get. Or else, she was happy with me living a normal life in that govt. job forever even if I was not really happy.

There are so many more things but this gets my point across.

This is not to say that she is a bad person. She is a good person. Maybe even a better person than me. At least humanity wise. I am very practical. Logic and rationality over emotions.

TL;DR : I don't like my mother as a person anymore after I my college education. I have no clue how to co-exist with her. We are constantly fighting. How did other people in similar situation cope with it?