The Indian Government distributed over 65 lakh property cards under the SVAMITVA Scheme to property owners in over 50000 villages in more than 230 districts across 10 States and 2 Union territories, through a video conference held by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on January 18. The Survey of Villages And Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme aims to offer formal land ownership documentation across rural areas through drone mapping and issuing digital property cards. The scheme has managed to provide legal documents to 2.25 crore people, claimed the PM.

Govt Distributes 65 Lakh Property Cards Under SVAMITVA Scheme

The SVAMITVA scheme begins with the Survey of India (SoI) signing memorandums of understanding with state governments. SoI utilises technologies including drone photography, satellite imagery, and Unmanned Air Vehicles to create national topographic databases with precision mapping.

The implementation process establishes a Continuously Operating Reference System (CORS), a network of reference stations providing high-accuracy geographic corrections. Villages selected for survey undergo a detailed mapping procedure where inhabited areas are demarcated, and properties are marked with limestone. Drone surveys capture large-scale images of these areas, which are then used to create detailed Geographic Information System (GIS) databases and village maps at 1:500 scale.

Ground verification teams conduct thorough surveys using drone imagery, making necessary corrections and resolving any property disputes. The final stage involves generating Property Cards or “Sampatti Patrak,” which the government distributes to village household owners both digitally and in hard copy, providing residents with official documentation of their property boundaries and ownership.

The government claimed that the SVAMITVA scheme will help in the resolution of land ownership disputes and make it easier for the government to collect property taxes. It also seemed particularly interested in the way formalised property documents could enable villagers to take out secured loans. In his interactions with scheme beneficiaries, the PM spoke to five people all of whom had taken out loans against their property to start a business or expressed their desire to do so. Notably, one individual stated that he had taken out a loan to start a dairy farm and was paying Rs. 16,000 as EMI. His monthly income was only Rs. 30,000.

The RBI is also running pilot experiments with using the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) to provide credit to tenant farmers, who often struggle to access agricultural credit as they do not have the land title to submit to banks or lending institutions.

The PM also referred to an unnamed economist, who had termed the small amount of land owned by villagers to be dead capital. He was possibly referring to Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto , who had coined the term. In a paper, he wrote, “The property of the poor is, in effect, ‘dead capital.’ It exists in a universe where there is too much room for misunderstanding, confusion, reversal of agreements, and faulty recollection. It is useless as collateral; it can neither secure a bank loan nor guarantee the payment of water, electricity, or other infrastructure services. As long as the majority cannot put their assets to work in the market because they are informal, they will not realize most of the benefits that should accrue from macro reforms.”

The point here is that the Government should work towards providing formal property rights to economically disadvantaged citizens, who can then leverage those assets in the formal economy, by mortgaging their land for a bank loan for example. De Soto claimed that formalising land ownership and businesses globally could unlock $9.3 trillion in wealth.

This idea was later taken up by multilateral organisations such as the World Bank .

A cursory glance through Government data doesn’t really suggest a lack of credit in rural India. The All-India Survey on Debt and Investment in 2019 showed that rural households had a higher Incidence of Indebtedness (IoI) than urban ones at 35%, with cultivator households owing 71% of rural debt. Further, the majority of cash debt provided to rural households came from institutional lenders like commercial banks, at 66.1%. Access to formal financial channels has actually improved, as the more recent All India Rural Financial Inclusion Survey (NAFIS) from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) showed that 75.5% of agricultural households took loans only from institutional lenders in the year 2021-22.

A paper from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR) in 2016 also stated, based on the RBI’s Basic Statistical Returns (2014), that 80% of all agricultural loans have land as collateral.

Seen together, these figures are sufficient to turn a skeptical eye towards both the need and impact of the SVAMITVA Scheme in ensuring access to secured loans for rural Indians.

There is also the problem of increasing indebtedness in rural households. The NABARD study also showed that 55% of all agricultural households were now indebted, higher than the previous version of the survey. At the same time, the RBI has raised concerns about a rising household debt to GDP ratio and decreasing savings.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event