The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) directed regulated entities (REs) to furnish details of their digital lending apps (DLAs) through its Centralised Information Management System (CIMS) portal by June 15, 2025. RBI’s directive forms part of its Digital Lending Guidelines, 2025, consolidating various directions and circulars on the subject.

As per the RBI’s press release, customers can use the list to verify claims of a DLA’s association with a regulated entity. The list would also be updated regularly with details like the addition or deletion of existing apps.

RBI’s mandate is significant due to the surge of Chinese loan-taking apps in India in recent years. With such applications, companies charged borrowers exorbitant interest rates and often harassed customers for repayment. Taking note of the loan app menace, in September 2022, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the premises of payment gateways like Paytm, PayU, Razorpay, and Cashfree, alongside other entities owned and controlled by Chinese nationals. Later, India’s IT Ministry blocked 94 lending apps with Chinese links for involvement in money laundering and “improper data storage and transfer”. Overall, the creation of a centralised directory for digital lending apps can be viewed as an effort to boost consumer confidence in the lending sector.

In addition to the Government’s crackdown on illegal loan apps, several other actions have been taken. In April 2024, the RBI mulled over establishing a Digital India Trust Agency (DIGITA) to maintain a public register of authorised DLAs that could be employed by law enforcement officers to weed out illegal loan apps.

Previously in September 2022, the Ministry of Finance announced that India’s apex bank would create a whitelist of all lending apps to operate on Google Play and Apple’s App Store. Later, the RBI flagged 442 unique lending apps to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), following which Google removed over 2,200 loan apps from September 2022 to August 2023.

Notably, in a previous RTI response to MediaNama, the RBI refused to share the whitelist, citing confidentiality and subsequent exemption from disclosure. Later, following an appeal, the First Appellate Authority at RBI stated that disclosing the whitelist could have a ‘catastrophic’ impact on the country’s financial ecosystem.

Besides instructions on maintaining a public directory of DLAs, the central bank also prescribed finalised directions on transparency in the aggregation of loan products. Within the draft guidelines issued in April 2024, the RBI prescribed that platforms operating as Lending Service Providers (LSPs) to aggregate loan offers by multiple lenders and enable borrowers to compare and avail themselves of the best option. The guidelines mandated the provision of information on all available loan offers, their key details, the display of products in an unbiased manner, and demonstration of the willingness of lenders to offer loans.

While the overall structure of agreements between REs and LSPs remains unchanged, the RBI has made updates in two areas:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event