President Joe Biden on November 8 reiterated the US government’s stance on dealing with cyber security issues, especially the ransomware ecosystem. This statement came on a day when the US Justice Department arrested a Ukrainian national, Yaroslav Vasinskyi for allegedly deploying Revil ransomware in July 2021 against Kaseya , a multi-national information technology software company.

We are bringing the full strength of the federal government to disrupt malicious cyber activity and actors, bolster resilience at home, address the abuse of virtual currency to launder ransom payments, and leverage international cooperation to disrupt the ransomware ecosystem and address safe harbors for ransomware criminals — US President Joe Biden

Russia and China have been in the cross-hairs of the US government for allegedly perpetrating state-sponsored cyberattacks targetting the country’s critical infrastructure. The Biden administration has been publicly calling out both these nation-states over these alleged attacks, and in the November 8 statement released by the White House , Biden said, “When I met with President Putin in June, I made clear that the United States would take action to hold cybercriminals accountable,”

In the statement, the US President also claimed that it has taken a number of steps to strengthen the country’s critical infrastructure against cyber attacks. Here is a look at the key decisions Biden has taken regarding cybersecurity since he became the President on January 20, 2021.

May 12: The Biden administration issues an executive order that overhauls its cybersecurity policy

This policy which came on the heels of digital attacks such as Colonel Pipeline and SolarWinds, focused on protecting US federal government networks with assistance from the private sector.

The order expects to —

June 3: US government expands ban on Americans investing in the Chinese surveillance sector

The US government expanded the ban on Americans investing in Chinese companies with purported ties to China’s military to cover companies in the surveillance technology sector, the executive order stated. The blacklist now includes 59 Chinese companies, up from the 48 banned by the previous administration last November.

June 9: US revokes order banning TikTok, WeChat

The order which revoked the previous administration’s order banning TikTok, WeChat and other Chinese, also laid new steps to protect Americans’ sensitive data from “foreign adversaries”.

July 19: US and allies accuse China of carrying out malicious cyber activity

The US along with European Union, the United Kingdom, NATO, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Japan accused China of —

July 28: Cyberattacks can lead to “real shooting war”: Biden

Biden in July warned that a significant cyber attack on the United States can end up in a “real shooting war” with a “major power”. “I think it’s more than likely we’re going to end up, if we end up in a war – a real shooting war with a major power – it’s going to be as a consequence of a cyber breach of great consequence and it’s increasing exponentially, the capabilities,” Reuters quoted Biden as saying.

August 13: US Cyber Team partners with tech giants to counter ransomware attacks

According to a report by The Wall Street Journal, the US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) is collaborating with tech giants such as Amazon, Google, and Microsoft to fight ransomware and defend cloud computing systems from hackers.

August 25: Biden meets private sector leaders on improving nation’s cybersecurity

In a meeting with companies such as Google, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and others, several commitments were made by Big Tech for improving cyber security infrastructure in the US. For instance —

According to a report by Forbes , the Biden administration announced a slew of measures that is going to be implemented in order to combat cyberattacks in the USA. A few of them are listed below:

Also Read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event