Mr. Ankit Gautam as he represented Bajaj and assisted me to get me the loan from Bajaj wroth 15 lacs in 2025 he was very supportive which was a trap of blind faith which i always had on Bajaj Finance since 2018 from the first loan i started with. I lost my Job in Jan month due to my health issues and due to which my Feb.2026 auto debit got bounced t for EMI with Bajaj from my registered bank (ICICI Bank) as a solution Mr. Ankit Gautam shared UPI code and suggested me to pay the Feb month EMI to him and he will get this sorted at backend But he never did this as he assured me to help me and on the 14th Feb I found Bajaj team at my doorstep to collect the Feb month EMI and was very inappropriate with my neighbor awkward situation for me  as it was not even a weeks time given to me to handle the situation and everyone from the Bajaj was so quick to visit my home and checking about me from the neighbors. since 14th Feb after experiencing this money fraud done by Mr. Ankit Gautam i am begging him to return my hard earned money back as I sold my home assets and got the loan close immediately as i carry respect throughout and Mr. Ankit Gautam did money fraud and it was the first time that someone visited my door step to collect money. I carry very prestigious CIBIL Record throughout being a Female i know her respect is the only priority and I always tried to maintain in this  men dominating world  Today I lost my money in blind faith on the same person. I am continuously sending a begging email to Mr. Ankit Gautam and Bajaj Management Team but unfortunately no action is taken against Ankit Gautam or refund back my money and Mr. Ankit is giving me threating calls that he will send a court legal notice if i didn't take my complain back and he will drag me to the court and using so abusive language But no action is taken yet. Being female i am just writing requesting email without using any odd words but in return getting no empathy or support yet its been more than 20 days now. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)