Heard Mr. Vivek Jain, learned counsel for the

petitioners and Mr. K.Surender, learned Special Public

Prosecutor for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) (as his

Lordship then was). 2. This criminal petition has been filed by five petitioners

under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

(briefly ' Cr.P.C ' hereinafter) to dispense with the presence of

petitioner No.1 Sri I.Syam Prasad Reddy in C.C.No.26 of 2014

pending on the file of Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases,

Nampally, Hyderabad (briefly 'CBI Court' hereinafter). 3. Be it stated that petitioner No.1 is Sri I.Syam Prasad

Reddy who is accused No.4 in C.C.No.26 of 2014. Petitioner

No.1 is the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of petitioner

Nos.2 to 5 companies. Petitioner Nos.2 to 5 are accused

Nos.5, 8, 10 and 13 in C.C.No.26 of 2014. 4. Be it stated that the erstwhile High Court of Andhra

Pradesh passed order dated 10.08.2011 in W.P.Nos.794 and

6604 of 2011 directing the CBI for registration of a case and

conduct investigation into allegations of financial misdeeds by

the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and his son

involving huge amount of government largesse, corporate

dealings including huge investments as part of quid pro quo

arrangement for the largesse and for the benefit obtained by

the investors from the State of Andhra Pradesh and also in all

other aspects. 5. In view of the aforesaid order, CBI, Anti Corruption

Bureau (ACB), Hyderabad registered a case being RC 19

(A)/2011-CBI-Hyderabad on 17.08.2011 under Sections 120B

read with Sections 420 , 409 and 477A of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860 ( IPC ) and Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (c) and (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (briefly,

'the P.C.Act' hereinafter) against Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy

(Accused No.1) and 73 others. 6. After conclusion of investigation, CBI filed charge sheet

being charge sheet No.20 dated 09.09.2014 in the form of

final report under Section 173 Cr.P.C putting up as many as

fourteen accused persons to face trial. This includes the

petitioners as accused Nos.4, 5, 8, 10 and 13. This has given

rise to C.C.No.26 of 2014. 7. It is stated that respondent CBI has filed thirteen charge

sheets. All the calendar cases arising out of the charge sheets

are being heard by the CBI Court. 8. Petitioner No.1 is a businessman carrying on business

in construction. He is the Chairman-cum-Managing Director

of Indu Group of Companies having its Corporate Office at

1009, Indu Fortune Fields, 13th Phase, Kukatpally,

Hyderabad. Being a businessman, he is required to attend to

his business duties on a regular basis. In connection with his

business activities, he has to undergo travel both within India

and outside India frequently, sometimes at short notices. In

the circumstances, it has become difficult for him to appear

before the CBI Court on each and every date. 9. According to the petitioners, C.C.No.26 of 2014 is not

yet ready for hearing and recording of evidence. He is

appearing before the CBI Court on every Friday but on one

ground or the other, the cases are being adjourned

particularly on the hearing of the discharge applications.

Petitioner No.1 has appeared before the CBI Court from the

very first day except on those dates on which he was granted

exemption from personal appearance. Petitioner No.1

therefore submits that his presence on every date in

C.C.No.26 of 2014 may be dispensed with. He has given an

undertaking that he would appear before the CBI Court as

and when his presence is directed by the learned Judge. 10. While learned counsel for the petitioners has reiterated

what has been contended in the petition and has placed

reliance on a Single Bench decision of this Court dated

20.04.2016 in criminal petition No.5574 of 2016 and on the

decision of Supreme Court in Puneet Dalmia v. Central Bureau of

Investigation1 , learned counsel for the respondent submits that

the prayer made by petitioner No.1 is not supported by any 1 (2020) 12 SCC 695 5 documents or details to justify grant of exemption from

personal appearance. Entire petition is bereft of any details.

Exemption from appearance in a criminal case cannot be

granted to an accused as a matter of course. Therefore, the

criminal petition may be dismissed. 11. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties

have received the due consideration of the Court. 12. Petitioners have furnished a statement of contract works

carried out by the petitioners for which petitioner No.1 has to

visit different places in the country. However, other than such

a statement, no particulars have been placed before the Court

as to why petitioner No.1 should be granted exemption from

personal appearance. 13. For examining the prayer made in the present petition,

it is not necessary for the Court to delve into the allegations

made against the petitioners by the respondent in the charge

sheet. Suffice it to say, as per allegations made in the charge

sheet, accused No.1 Sri Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy had exerted

undue influence on his late father Dr. Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy, 6 who was the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, for

extending benefits to the accused persons, such as, allotment

of land, setting up of ports, Special Economic Zones (SEZs),

licences, permissions etc, in return for which or as a quid pro

quo the beneficiaries paid bribes to the accused No.1 in the

form of investing in his companies at highly inflated premia. 14. Section 205 Cr.P.C deals with dispensation of personal

attendance of an accused by a magistrate. Section 205 Cr.P.C

reads as under: (2) But the Magistrate inquiring into or trying the case
 may, in his discretion, at any stage of the proceedings, direct
 the personal attendance of the accused, and, if necessary,
 enforce such attendance in the manner hereinbefore provided.

14.1. From the above, we find that as per sub-section (1) of

Section 205, whenever a Magistrate issues a summons, he

may dispense with the personal attendance of the accused

and permit him to appear by his pleader, if he sees reason so

to do. However, as per sub-section (2), at any stage of the 7 proceedings, the trying Magistrate may direct personal

attendance of the accused and if necessary, enforce such

attendance in the manner provided. Therefore, the Magistrate

has the discretion to dispense with the personal attendance of

the accused and to permit him to appear by his pleader, if he

sees reason so to do. The expression reason so to do is not

qualified by any word or expression to mean that the reason

should be good or sufficient. The requirement of the law is

that if the Magistrate sees reason, he may dispense with the

personal attendance of the accused. Of course, he is

empowered thereafter to direct the personal attendance of the

accused at any stage of the proceedings. 15. In Ajit Kumar Chakraborty v. Serampore Municipality2,

Calcutta High Court in the facts and circumstances of the

case observed that the second petitioner was a member of the

West Bengal Higher Judicial Service. He had to remain busy

with the case pending on his file and could not afford to

attend the Court of the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate at

Serampore on the dates fixed without serious disruption of 2 1988 SCC OnLine Cal 118 8 his official work and harassment to the litigant public whose

cases were pending in his Court. 16. This Court in M.Shyam Prasad Reddy v. State of Andhra

Pradesh3 , after referring to previous decisions held that in a

case where the accused himself applies to the Court to be

exempted from personal appearance, then the Court should

grant the request unless Court is of the opinion that in the

interest of justice, it is necessary that the accused should be

present through out the course of the trial or unless there are

some other good reasons for directing the presence of the

accused throughout the course of the trial. It is the basic

principle of criminal jurisprudence that nothing shall take

place behind the back of the accused. It is on the basis of this

principle that fair trial is given to the accused and that the

accused is required to be present during trial. 17. One of the points which arose for consideration in Bhaskar Industries Limited v. Bhiwani Denim & Apparels Limited4 was the plea made by the second accused before the trial 3 1992 SCC OnLine AP 62 4 (2001) 7 SCC 401 9 Court for exempting him from personal appearance. Supreme

Court posed the question to itself, when a Court feels that

insisting on the personal attendance of the accused in a

particular case would be too harsh on account of a variety of

reasons, can't the Court afford relief to such an accused in

the matter of facing prosecution proceedings? Supreme Court

answered as under: This is what the Delhi High Court held: After referring to its earlier decision in Bhaskar Industries

Limited (supra), Supreme Court held as follows: 2009 SCC OnLine Pat 497 13 bailable cannot be reasons for rejecting the prayer under Section 205 CrPC. 21. Supreme Court in Sonia Gandhi v. Subramaniam Swamy8 ,

after considering the position occupied by the petitioner took

the view that presence of the petitioner during the hearing

before the trial court would cause more inconvenience than

convenience. Accordingly, direction was issued to the effect

that petitioner should be exempted from personal appearance

before the trial court. 22. In Arvind Kejriwal v. State9, Delhi High Court considering

the nature of duties required to be performed by the petitioner

being the Chief Minister of Delhi held that it would be in the

interest of justice to grant permanent exemption to the

petitioner from personal appearance before the trial court.

Delhi High Court directed that petitioner should be exempted

from appearance before the trial court and to be represented

by a duly nominated counsel on his behalf, filing an affidavit

to the effect that petitioner would not dispute recording of 8 MANU/SC/0325/2016 9 Crl.M.C.No.3306 of 2016 & Crl.M.A.No.14056 of 2016, dated 06.12.2016 14 pleas made by the counsel on his behalf nor evidence in his

absence; petitioner would also not dispute the identity of the

witnesses nor his own identity nor raise objections of similar

nature. Liberty was granted to the trial court that if it needed

presence of the petitioner it could direct his presence in

person. It was further directed that if the trial court found

that unnecessary adjournments were being sought for by

learned counsel for the petitioner, it would be at liberty to

pass appropriate orders. 23. Petitioners have placed reliance on a Single Bench

decision of this Court in criminal petition No.5574 of 2016

(M/s.Trident Life Sciences Limited v. CBI; date of order

20.04.2016). That was a petition filed for quashing the

proceedings. In the course of hearing, petitioners gave up the

main prayer for quashing and confined to the relief of seeking

dispensing with the presence of the petitioner during trial.

Considering the submissions of learned counsel for the

petitioners, learned Single Judge dispensed with the presence

of the petitioners who were accused Nos.5 and 8 in C.C.No.8 15 of 2012 except on the dates when the CBI Court would insist

on their appearance. 24. From a perusal of the order dated 20.04.2016, no

binding ratio is laid down by the learned Single Judge. It was

an order passed in the facts and context of that case. Benefit

granted to the petitioners of that case cannot be extended to

the petitioners of the present case. 25. In so far Puneet Dalmia (supra) is concerned, Supreme

Court adverted to its earlier decisions and also considered the

scope and ambit of Section 205 Cr.P.C and thereafter granted

relief to the accused petitioner. 26. Adverting to the facts of the present case, as already

noticed above, other than stating or furnishing a statement of

business deals of the petitioners, nothing has been stated

about the frequent visits of petitioner No.1 to outside the city

of Hyderabad. The petition is bereft of specifics. No cogent

reasons or grounds have been mentioned as to why petitioner

No.1 should be given general exemption from appearance in

the criminal case. No general or sweeping exemption can be 16 granted to petitioner No.1. In the circumstances, Court is not

inclined to invoke its jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. to

grant general exemption from personal appearance of

petitioner No.1 under Section 205 Cr.P.C. On a particular

date of appearance, if petitioner No.1 is unable to appear for

good reason, he may make necessary application before the

CBI Court for exemption. If such application is filed, the same

shall be considered by the CBI Court in accordance with law. 27. Subject to the above, criminal petition is dismissed.

However, there shall be no order as to cost. Miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in this criminal

petition shall stand closed. __________________
 UJJAL BHUYAN, CJ

04.11.2022
pln