% 26.08.2025

 IA No.20841/2025 (O-XI R-1(4) of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908) 1. The present Application has been filed on behalf of the Plaintiff under
 Order XI Rule 1(4) of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (" CPC ") as
 applicable to Commercial Suits under the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 (" CC Act ") seeking leave to place on record additional documents. 2. The Plaintiff is permitted to file additional documents in accordance
 with the provisions of the CC Act and the Delhi High Court (Original Side)
 Rules, 2018. 3. Accordingly, the Application stands disposed of.
 IA No.20842/2025 (Exemption) 4. Exemption is allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 5. The Application is disposed of. I.A. No.20843/2025 (Exemption from Pre-institution Mediation) 6. This is an Application filed by the Plaintiffs seeking exemption from
 pre-institution Mediation under Section 12A of the CC Act. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58 7. As the present matter contemplates urgent interim relief, in light of
 the judgment of the Supreme Court in Yamini Manohar v. T.K.D. Krithi ,
 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1382, exemption from the requirement of pre-
 institution Mediation is granted. 8. The Application stands disposed of. I.A. No.20844/2025 (Extension of time to file Court Fees) 9. The present Application has been filed by the Plaintiff under Section
 149 read with Section 151 of the CPC, seeking exemption from payment of
 Court Fees at the time of the filing of the Suit. 10. Considering the submissions made in the present Application, time of
 four weeks is granted to file the Court Fees. 11. The Application stands disposed of. CS(COMM) 893/2025 12. Let the Plaint be registered as a Suit. 13. Issue Summons to the Defendants through all permissible modes upon
 filing of the Process Fee. 14. The Summons shall state that the Written Statement(s) shall be filed
 by the Defendants within 30 days from the date of the receipt of Summons.
 Along with the Written Statement(s), the Defendants shall also file an
 Affidavit of Admission / Denial of the documents of the Plaintiff, without
 which the Written Statement(s) shall not be taken on record. 15. Liberty is granted to the Plaintiff to file Replication(s), if any, within
 30 days from the receipt of the Written Statement(s). Along with the
 Replication(s) filed by the Plaintiff, Affidavit(s) of Admission / Denial of
 the documents of Defendants be filed by the Plaintiff, without which the
 Replication(s) shall not be taken on record. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58 16. In case any Party is placing reliance on a document, which is not in
 their power and possession, its details and source shall be mentioned in the
 list of reliance, which shall also be filed with the pleadings. 17. If any of the Parties wish to seek inspection of any documents, the
 same shall be sought and given within the prescribed timelines. 18. List before the Joint Registrar on 15.10.2025 for completion of
 service and pleadings. IA No.20840/2025 (U/O XXXIX R-1&2 CPC ) 19. The Plaintiff has filed the present Suit seeking an order of permanent
 injunction restraining impairment and tampering of goods, infringement of
 registered Trade Marks and copyright, passing off, dilution and tarnishment
 of Trade Marks and copyright, unfair trade practise, unfair competition,
 disparagement, false trade description, damages, rendition of accounts,
 delivery up, etc. 20. The Plaintiff is in the business of inter alia marketing and selling
 various household essentials. 21. Both the Defendants are engaged in the business of manufacturing
 and selling spying cameras and other digital equipment and gadget. 22. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiff made the following submissions
 before this Court: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 Dress ("Subject Trade Dress"). The Subject Product was launched in
 the market in the year 2000 and has been continuously and
 uninterruptedly been used by the Plaintiff since then. The Subject
 Product is sold in India through both online and offline channels. The
 photographs of the Subject Product as appearing in the Application
 are reproduced below: This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 22.3. In the financial year 2018-19, the Plaintiff introduced an
 advance variant of the Subject Product that automatically shifts mode
 between high (attack) and low (protect) periodically throughout the
 night, in line with mosquito intensity. To strengthen the market
 position and visibility of the said product, the Plaintiff collaborated
 with celebrities for promoting the same. The Plaintiff has spent large
 amounts of money in promoting their MAXO branded products and
 have also made huge sales turnover for the above-mentioned product
 sold by it under its mark and brand MAXO over the years.
 22.4. Since 18.07.2000, the Plaintiff has also obtained multiple
 trademark registrations for the Subject Trade Mark in Classes 5, 7, 9,
 11 and 21. The Plaintiff also has the below reproduced copyright
 registration in India over the artwork forming part of their MAXO A-
 GRADE product's trade dress which was obtained by the Plaintiff
 vide registration No. A-149826/2023 dated 14.12.2023. 22.5. The Plaintiff has also obtained the below mentioned design
 registrations for the shape and configuration of the variants of their
 bottle / refill containing the mosquito repellent liquid and the same are CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 5 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 valid as on this day. 22.6. Both the Defendants engaged in the business of inter alia
 manufacturing and selling spying cameras are promoting the same on
 social media platforms such as www.youtube.com by unauthorizedly
 using the Subject Trade Mark and by unauthorizedly tampering with
 the Plaintiff's MAXO branded products bearing the Subject Trade
 Dress and design elements. 22.7. In May 2025, the Plaintiff came to know that Defendant Nos. 1
 and 2 are marketing and selling spy cameras by fitting them inside the
 Plaintiff's MAXO branded mosquito repellent machine along with the
 bottle / refill, containing the mosquito repellent liquid, in the Subject
 Trade Dress ("Infringing Products"). Thereafter, the Plaintiff
 deputed an Investigator to conduct an online investigation on the
 Defendants and to purchase the Infringing Products from the
 Defendants. The investigation conducted on the Defendants
 confirmed that the Defendants are impairing and unlawfully selling
 the Infringing Products. 22.8. Defendant No. 1 is promoting the Infringing Product on his
 YouTube channel '@smarsofficial8875'. Defendant No. 1 is also
 selling the Infringing Products through their listing on the e-
 commerce platform www.amazon.in and also through his own
 website at www.smars.in. Screenshots of Defendant No. 1's listings CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 6 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 on Amazon and on his website as appearing in the Application are
 reproduced below. 22.9. The Investigator further made a purchase of Defendant No. 1's
 Infringing Product from his website at www.smars.in on 20.05.2025
 and made a payment of ₹ 2,999/- against the same. The screenshots of
 the order confirmation on Defendant No. 1's website and of the
 payment confirmation on Paytm as appearing in the Application is
 reproduced below: However, the product that was actually being sold by Defendant No. 1
 and which was received by the Investigator in New Delhi bore the
 Subject Trade Mark and Subject Trade Dress. This is indicative of the
 fact that the infringing and illegal activities that are being carried out
 by the Defendants are intentional and deliberate as they know that in
 the event the Subject Trade Mark and Subject Trade Dress is
 displayed on his website, the Plaintiff may come to know about it and
 may take appropriate legal action. 22.12. Defendant No. 2 is also selling the Infringing Products on e-
 commerce platforms such as www.amazon.in and www.flipkart.in.
 Screenshots of the Defendant No. 2's listings on the said e-commerce
 platforms as appearing in the Application is reproduced below: The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 description as it induces the consumers and members of trade to
 falsely believe that the Defendants have a direct nexus or affiliation
 with the Plaintiff; or the Defendants have been granted a license to
 use the Subject Trade Mark and the Subject Trade Dress or the
 business of the Defendants has been endorsed by the Plaintiff.
 22.20. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 have impaired the condition of the
 Subject Product and completely changed the functionality of the same
 which was never intended. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 are marketing and
 selling the Infringing Products in such a manner that any consumer
 might assume that the same have originated from the Plaintiffs.
 Therefore, Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 cannot plead the principle of
 exhaustion and say that their infringing act is covered under Section
 30 (2) (d) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 ("Act"). 22.21. Section 30(4) of the Act also carves an exception to Section
 30(3) and stipulating that Section 30(3) of the Act shall not apply
 when there exist legitimate reasons for the proprietor to oppose
 further dealings in such product where the condition of the product
 has been changed or impaired after they have been put on the market
 by the registered proprietor. The Subject Product has been materially
 impaired and tampered with. There is no correlation at all between the
 intention of the Plaintiff behind selling the Subject Products, i.e., to be
 used as a mosquito repellant device and the intention with which the
 Defendants tampered with the same and selling it for spying purposes.
 Therefore, the Defendants' act of selling the Infringing Product in the
 market after tampering and making material alterations to the Subject
 Product, amounts to an infringement of the Subject Trade Mark under CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 18 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 Section 30(3) read with Section 30(4) of the Act. If such a thing were
 to happen and the Defendants' infringing products were to be used
 illegally for breaching someone's privacy, the aggrieved individual
 will only hold the Plaintiff liable as it is the Plaintiff's product bearing
 the Plaintiff's mark and brand 'MAXO' which he / she would see in
 front of him / her. 22.22. The Plaintiff is not a company that is involved in any sting
 operations or espionage activities that may have a direct impact on the
 personal lives of the citizens of our country. If any person's personal
 life and liberty is invaded through the use of the Infringing Product,
 they will blame the Plaintiff associating the Infringing Product with
 the Plaintiff as the same bears the Subject Trade Mark and Subject
 Trade Dress. Such actions will also dilute the distinctiveness,
 goodwill, reputation and popularity that the Plaintiff and the Subject
 Product enjoy in the market. 22.23. The Defendants' act of selling Infringing Product and
 misrepresenting the Plaintiffs' 'MAXO' branded mosquito repellant
 product as brand-new Spy Cam products originating from Defendants
 is without any authorization or approval from the Plaintiff. The
 Defendants, therefore, by their acts of refurbishing / tampering with
 the Plaintiff's 'MAXO' branded mosquito repellant product
 misrepresent, inter alia, the source and quality of the said products
 and are therefore committing passing off as well as giving a false
 trade description of such products. Such conduct causes not only
 confusion among consumers but ultimately damaging the Plaintiff's
 reputation and goodwill and exposing the Plaintiff to various CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 19 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 liabilities and consequences for no fault of theirs.
 22.24. The Defendants' activities also have the effect of disparaging
 the Subject Trade Mark and such activities will also injure the
 Plaintiff in their business and trade leading to loss of business. The
 fraudulent and illegal activities of the Defendants are causing and will
 continue to cause incalculable harm and injury to the business,
 goodwill and reputation associated with the Subject Trade Mark,
 Subject Trade Dress and Subject Product. 22.25. The Plaintiff are suffering loss of distinctiveness, uniqueness,
 and exclusivity attached to Subject Trade Mark, Subject Trade Dress
 and Subject Product.by reducing their capacity to identify and
 distinguish the business of the Plaintiff as originating from a
 particular source, independent of the presence or absence of a
 likelihood of confusion, mistake, or deception. The immediate
 consequence of such unlawful activity is erosion of the confidence of
 the public in the Plaintiff's brand. 22.26. All profits earned by the Defendants in pursuance of their
 infringing activities are the Plaintiff's losses and amount to unjust
 enrichment of the Defendants. The balance of convenience clearly
 tilts in favor of the Plaintiff and against the Defendants. It is also
 apparent that grave prejudice, irreparable harm and injury will be
 caused to the Plaintiff if the present Application is not allowed.
 However, no prejudice will be caused to the Defendants in case the
 present application is allowed. 23. Having considered the submissions, pleadings and material placed on
 record, the Plaintiff has made out a prima facie case warranting the grant of CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 20 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58
 an ex-parte ad interim injunction. The material placed on record,
 demonstrate that the Defendants have impaired and tampered with the
 Subject Product, while continuing to use and misappropriate the Subject
 Trade Mark and the Subject Trade Dress. The activities of the Defendants
 amount to alteration and misrepresentation of origin. The deliberate
 concealment of the Subject Trade Mark and Subject Trade Dress on online
 listings and the delivery of altered products bearing the Subject Trade Mark
 indicates mala fides. Needless to say, the Infringing Products can be used for
 illegal and immoral activities. If such conduct were to continue unchecked,
 it would expose the Plaintiff to unwarranted liabilities and cause irreparable
 injury to the reputation built over the years. The balance of convenience is,
 therefore, also in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendants. 24. Accordingly, till the next date of hearing it is directed as under: 25. Let the Reply to the present Application be filed within four weeks
 after service of pleadings and documents. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed
 before the next date of hearing. 26. The compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the CPC be done within
 two weeks. 27. List before the Court on 17.12.2025. TEJAS KARIA, J
 AUGUST 26, 2025
 'gsr' CS(COMM) 893/2025 Page 23 of 23 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 01/09/2025 at 21:54:58