SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Am I wrong to feel this!
DATE: 2022-11-17
SCORE: 95
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/yxib43/am_i_wrong_to_feel_this/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am married in a so called modern South Mumbai household. My mother in law (MIL) is a Parsi who never stayed a day with her Hindu in laws. My FIL is obsessed with MIL till date, who left his parents in a heart beat. Today she is only grown stronger to turn into a literal dictator. She handles the company accounts, we have no CA. She has kept the account of FIL and son very weak on purpose, and my FIL brags about it. Everything is on her name, EVERYTHING we own TO BITS. God knows where she spends money coz no one is there to track her or question her. If I want to buy a lehenga, I want to get approval, discuss the budget from her, if I want to join a yoga class, she will see and approve, if we want to go for a vacation- she will be writing a sponsorship letter attaching her bank details for us to get a visa. Don’t get me wrong I am a doctor and I am all about feminism. I have never seen her boil water in the kitchen, she is not motherly in any way. My husband is into the family business and has successfully taken over the operations in his hand since years, he is the busiest, workaholic man I know. So he does the work and she enjoys the fruit. MIL is so insecure that she would do anything to never let us live in a separate home, she faked a heart attack to get a promise from my husband that we will never live separately from her. She wants her daughter to be married in a house where in- laws won’t stay with her. She is a control freak, nosy, manipulative and gives no space. She wakes up and gives instructions to her husband and son as to what will be their action plan for today over breakfast. She hasn’t given me my room keys after I cried so much to have my space- she said there is nothing like your room it’s all one unit. She comes to my room, opens my cupboards and drawers in my absence. In my presence she just doesn’t knock and enters at-least 4 times a day to enquire, ask questions, see what is there in my room. I am so done with her and living with a person like this in your 30’s is a torture. There is no quality of a mother in her even now when I am pregnant. It’s only about money to her, she is materialistic and have been like this so no one finds it abnormal, including my husband. The couple only likes to invite her parents and family over every week to our home and are not welcoming and nice to my mother who comes once a year. She has no responsibility towards her husbands parents whatsoever. Its so unfair and hypocrite that there are times I feel how long can someone be so lucky, and when and where does this end!