1. In January 2021, the Commission took suo motu cognisance of certain media reports
 stating that WhatsApp Inc. (now, WhatsApp LLC and hereinafter, referred to as
 'WhatsApp') has updated its privacy policy and terms of service for its users (Suo Moto
 Case No. 01 of 2021). It was inter alia reported that the new policy makes it mandatory
 for the users to accept the terms and conditions in order to retain their WhatsApp account
 information and provides as to how it will share personalised user information with
 Facebook Inc. (later renamed as Meta Platforms, Inc. and hereinafter, referred to as
 'Meta') and its subsidiaries. 2. The Commission observed that since early January 2021, WhatsApp users started
 receiving notification from WhatsApp informing them about the new changes in

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 2
 Public Version

 WhatsApp's terms of service and privacy policies. The text of such notification, as
 reported in media, is as follows: 3. Thus, the above notification suggested that in order to be able to use the services of
 WhatsApp, from 08.02.2021 onwards, users will have to mandatorily accept the new
 terms and policy in their entirety including the terms with respect to sharing of their data
 across all the information categories with other Facebook Companies. As per previous
 privacy policy(ies) dated 25.08.2016 and 19.12.2019, existing users had an option to
 choose whether they wanted to share their WhatsApp data with Facebook. However,
 with the latest update, every WhatsApp user has to mandatorily agree to such data
 sharing with Facebook. 4. In the meanwhile, the Commission received an Information bearing Case No. 05 of 2021
 under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 ('Act') by Ms. Prachi Kohli
 ('Informant') against WhatsApp alleging contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act. The Commission considered the said Information in its ordinary meeting held
 on 23.03.2021 and noted that the allegations made by the Informant are substantially
 same to those, which are the subject matter of Suo Moto Case No. 01 of 2021.
 Accordingly, in terms of proviso to Section 26(1) of the Act, the Commission decided
 to club this matter with Suo Moto Case No. 01 of 2021. It was also decided that no
 separate order or direction is required to be passed on the instant Information and the
 same shall abide by the decision of the Commission in Suo Moto Case No. 01 of 2021. 5. Based on the material available on record, the Commission, vide its order dated
 24.03.2021, formed a prima facie view that WhatsApp in the garb of its policy update,
 has contravened the provisions of Section 4 of the Act through its exploitative and
 exclusionary conduct, as detailed in the said order. Accordingly, the Commission
 directed the DG to cause an investigation to be made into the matter under the provisions
 of Section 26(1) of the Act (PF Order). 6. Subsequently, the Commission received another Information bearing Case No. 30 of
 2021 against the Opposite Parties filed by Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF). The
 Commission considered the said Information in its ordinary meeting held on 12.10.2021
 and noted that the subject matter of the allegations made in the instant Information was
 substantially the same as that of Suo Motu Case No. 01 of 2021 which is currently under
 examination before the DG. Accordingly, in terms of proviso to Section 26(1) of the
 Act, the Commission, vide its order dated 12.10.2021, decided to club this case with Suo
 Motu Case No. 01 of 2021. It was also directed that no separate order or further direction
 is required to be passed on the instant Information and the same shall abide by the
 decision of the Commission in Suo Motu Case No. 01 of 2021. It was clarified that the
 scope of the Order dated 24.03.2021 passed under Section 26(1) of the Act, in Suo Motu
 Case No. 01 of 2021, remains unaltered by virtue of the clubbing of the present matter
 with Suo Motu Case No. 01 of 2021. 7. The OPs filed Writ Petitions before the Single Judge in Hon'ble Delhi High Court to
 challenge the aforementioned order dated 24.03.2021 passed by the Commission. The
 Court vide its order dated 22.04.2021 dismissed the captioned petitions after finding no
 merit in the petitions and refused to quash the PF Order of the Commission. The OPs
 filed Letter Patent Appeals No. 163 and 164/2021 before the Division Bench of Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court against the said Single Judge bench order. The Hon'ble Court vide
 judgement dated 25.08.2022 dismissed both the LPAs. Aggrieved by the impugned
 judgment and final order dated 25.08.2022 passed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 4
 Public Version

 Special Leave Petitions were preferred by the OPs. The Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its
 judgment dated 14.10.2022 dismissed the SLPs filed by parties. The Court observed that
 the Commission should not be restrained from proceeding further with the
 enquiry/investigation for the alleged violation of any of the provisions of the Act. 8. Accordingly, the DG submitted the Investigation Report (confidential as well as non- confidential versions) on 12.01.2023 along with case records. Investigation by the DG 9. During the course of Investigation, the DG has collated information from OPs as well
 as third parties. The replies and submissions so received have been considered by the
 DG while preparing his Investigation report. 10. Based on the analysis of various factors mentioned in the Act, following relevant
 markets were delineated by the DG: Considering the relative financial resources and active users of the OPs and the
 competing apps in the relevant market, direct network effects, the strong lock-in effects,
 absence of countervailing buying power, and control over huge data acting as barriers
 to market entry, Meta group was found by the DG to be dominant in the market for
 Over-The-Top (OTT) messaging apps through smartphones in India. 12. The DG also found that Meta (through WhatsApp) has contravened the provisions of Sections 4(2)(a)(i) , 4(2)(c) and 4(2)(e) of the Act for reasons elaborated in the
 Investigation Report. Consideration of the Investigation Report by the Commission 13. The Commission considered the Investigation Report in its ordinary meeting held on
 14.07.2023 and noted that Meta appears to operate as a 'Group' and offers its
 products/services through its various subsidiaries including WhatsApp. The
 Commission directed to forward an electronic copy of the non-confidential version of
 the Investigation Report to the Opposite Parties i.e., WhatsApp, Meta and Facebook
 India Online Services Limited as well as to the Informant(s) in Case Nos. 05 of 2021
 and 30 of 2021 (together referred to as the 'Parties'). The Parties were allowed to file
 their respective suggestions/ objections, if any, to the Investigation Report. The Parties
 were directed to mutually exchange copies of their respective objections/ suggestions in
 advance, before filing the same with the Commission. Parties were also allowed to file
 response(s), if any, to each other's objections/ suggestions. 14. Further, the Commission, vide its order dated 22.11.2023, decided to set up a
 confidentiality ring in the matter in terms of Regulation 35 of the Competition
 Commission of India (General) Regulations, 2009 (General Regulations), to grant
 access to the confidential version of the Investigation Report and confidential case
 records to the OPs, as prayed for, subject to the stipulations made therein. 15. The respective objections/ suggestions from all the three OPs as well as IFF have since
 been received and taken on record. The Informant in Case No. 05 of 2021 (i.e., Ms.
 Prachi Kohli) has neither filed any submission nor participated in the proceedings before
 the Commission. 16. The Parties were also allowed to appear for a oral hearing on the Investigation Report
 either in person or through their duly authorised representatives, within the meaning of Section 35 of the Act. During the course of oral hearing, the OPs were also given liberty
 to make submissions on the quantum of penalty which may be levied by the Commission
 in the event they are held in contravention of the provisions of the Act. In this regard,
 the attention of the OPs was drawn towards the Competition Commission of India

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 6
 Public Version

 (Determination of Turnover or Income) Regulations, 2024 and the Competition
 Commission of India (Determination of Monetary Penalty) Guidelines, 2024 (Penalty
 Guidelines). 17. The Commission heard the learned Senior Counsel(s) appearing on behalf of WhatsApp
 and Meta and learned counsel appearing on behalf of Facebook India and IFF, on
 22.05.2024, 16.07.2024, 25.07.2024, 26.07.2024, 01.08.2024, 07.08.2024 and
 28.08.2024. On conclusion of hearing, the Commission invited the learned Senior
 Counsel(s) for the OPs to make arguments on the quantum of penalty and remedies
 which may be imposed in the event they are held to be in contravention of the provisions
 of the Act. The learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of WhatsApp made his
 submissions on these aspects as well. Further, as prayed, the parties were also allowed
 to file brief synopsis of their oral arguments, within 10 (ten) days, if so desired. The
 Commission also decided to pass an appropriate order in due course. 18. Thereafter, all the parties filed synopsis of their oral arguments with the Commission. The same have been taken on record. Replies/objections/suggestions by the Parties. 19. The Informant in Case Nos. 30 of 2021 (i.e., IFF), in its reply to the Investigation Report,
 concurs with the conclusions and findings of the DG, while the OPs have contested the
 findings of the DG. The averments made by the OPs as well as IFF would be referred to
 in this order and dealt with, while analysing the matter on merits. Analysis and findings of the Commission

 About the Parties 20. Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) is stated to be a registered charitable trust under the
 provisions of the Indian Trust Act, 1882 that works on technology and fundamental
 rights issues. As per the information available, it was established in 2016 to promote the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 7
 Public Version

 rights of internet users before policymakers, regulators, courts and the wider public
 sphere and claims to be working in furtherance of that objective to bring transparency
 to policies and defend and expand digital rights. 21. Meta, established in 2004 is a publicly traded company listed on NASDAQ. In October
 2021, its name was changed from Facebook, Inc. to Meta Platforms, Inc. Meta offers
 various internet-based products, services and applications (apps). The primary product
 offerings of Meta include Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, Messenger, etc. Facebook
 is a social networking service providing services like Newsfeed, stories, photos and
 videos sharing, Watch, Pages, Groups, Events and Marketplaces. The Instagram Service
 is a mobile and web-based application that provides a variety of features to users to
 communicate with each other, such as sharing photos, videos, messages, feed etc.
 Messenger is a messaging application which enables people to send and view messages,
 including text, photos, videos, or voice messages. Meta also provides advertising
 services wherein advertisers purchase ads that can appear in multiple places, including
 on the Facebook Service, the Instagram Service, Messenger, and on third-party mobile
 apps. 22. WhatsApp was acquired by Meta in February 2014, and it provides instant messaging
 platform which enables the users to send text messages, make voice and video calls,
 share various media files across devices with ease, etc. WhatsApp has also evolved to
 cater to the needs of businesses, providing features such as WhatsApp Business and
 WhatsApp Business API. Currently, WhatsApp services in India and globally, are
 provided by WhatsApp LLC (OP-1/WhatsApp). Whereas, WhatsApp Ireland Limited
 provides the WhatsApp service for users located in the European region. 23. WhatsApp Business App, launched in January 2018, is stated to be a free-to-download
 app that makes it easier for small businesses to connect with customers, and more
 convenient for WhatsApp users to chat with businesses that matter to them. Among
 other things, the WhatsApp Business App: (a) helps companies create business profiles; (b) provides smart messaging tools (that allow businesses to send greeting messages to
 introduce customers to their business, away messages to let customers know the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 8
 Public Version

 company is busy, and quick replies to provide fast answers to frequently asked
 questions); (c) provides messaging statistics; (d) allows businesses to chat from their
 desktop to manage conversations and send files to customers; and (e) provides tools for
 businesses to organize contacts and chats. Businesses have the option to build a
 WhatsApp business profile which includes additional fields (including address,
 category, products or services offered, hours of operation, email address, and website
 fields), but they are not required to do so. 24. WhatsApp Business API, launched in August 2018, allows businesses to
 programmatically send and receive messages to and from their customers at scale.
 Unlike the WhatsApp Business App, this is a paid service. Users of the WhatsApp
 Business API are contractually obligated to abide by the Meta Terms for WhatsApp
 Business (and the policies, terms and guidelines incorporated by reference within),
 given the business uses the product through the Meta interface. 25. WhatsApp also offers WhatsApp Pay which is an in-chat payment feature that allows
 users to make transactions via WhatsApp to their contact list. It is a UPI-based payments
 service that allows users to both send and receive money. 26. Facebook India is one of the four Indian subsidiaries of Meta, and its current role is
 stated to be providing sales and marketing services to Meta, in relation to advertising in
 India. During 01.10.2018 to 31.07.2022, Facebook India was appointed as a non-
 exclusive reseller of its advertising inventory in India. Preliminary Objections 27. Before adverting on the issues on merit, the Commission deems it appropriate to
 examine certain alleged 'foundational errors' in the Investigation Report as claimed by
 WhatsApp. WhatsApp has averred that the Investigation Report improperly arrives at
 incorrect findings on matters of data protection and privacy law, unrelated to the Act.
 The contentions of WhatsApp in this regard are as follows: 27.1 Each of the Investigation Report's findings that WhatsApp has violated the Act is
 predicated on the DG's conclusion that there is a breach of data protection and
 privacy norms (which are defined by the DG itself and do not find basis in any law
 in force at the time the Investigation Report was prepared). In particular, the
 Investigation Report returns findings on whether: (a) WhatsApp obtained proper
 consent from users for the 2021 Update; and (b) WhatsApp's data collection is
 excessive or unfair. 27.2 The same questions of data protection and privacy law analysed by the DG are being
 adjudicated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and Hon'ble Delhi High Court. A decision
 by these Courts in the Privacy Policy Litigations will be binding on the DG and the
 Commission and, therefore, the DG should not have arrived at any pre-emptive
 findings on these issues. 27.3 The DG has gone against the Commission's own submissions before the Delhi
 High Court where it had clarified that it will only look at the competition aspects of
 the 2021 Update, and not the data protection and privacy aspects. 27.4 Two special statutes, the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDP Act )
 which provides for a framework of lawful consent and the Information Technology
 Act, 2000 (IT Act ) along with the Information Technology (Reasonable security
 practices and procedures and sensitive personal data or information) Rules, 2011
 (Privacy Rules) address data protection and privacy issues. Further, where a subject-
 specific law occupies the field, the courts have held that it must take precedence over
 the Act. 27.5 Based on above, WhatsApp has averred that the Investigation Report's pre-emptive
 findings on the nature of consent and extent of data collection under the 2021 Update
 relate to data protection and privacy law and are outside its purview. Therefore, the
 entire Investigation Report should be rejected and set aside. 28. The Commission has carefully considered the averments made by WhatsApp and
 concludes that it has jurisdiction to examine the conduct of the OPs. The observations
 of the Commission in this regard are as follows: Digital platforms that rely heavily on data often have the potential to gain substantial
 market power due to the unique characteristics of data, such as its ability to be
 collected, processed, and utilized on a massive scale. Such platforms can leverage
 their extensive data repositories to create barriers to entry, exclude competitors, or
 engage in discriminatory practices, thus stifling competition and reducing consumer
 welfare in the long run. 28.4 Given these dynamics, competition authorities must closely monitor and address
 anti-competitive behaviour in data-driven markets. Therefore, the role of competition
 authorities in such markets is indispensable. Their active oversight is necessary to
 ensure that data does not become a tool for perpetuating anti-competitive behaviour,
 and that the benefits of data-driven innovation are shared widely. By preventing the
 misuse of data-driven power, authorities not only safeguard fair competition but also
 contribute to a more dynamic, innovative, and consumer-friendly digital economy. 28.5 Data-related practices can lead to different types of legal violations that fall under
 multiple statutes viz. data protection or consumer protection or competition laws, etc.
 reflecting the growing complexity of the digital economy. Data protection and
 competition law, have distinct intervention tools to address data-related concerns, and
 each serves a unique purpose. Data protection and privacy laws focus on maintaining
 transparency and securing individual rights, which supports consumer protection by
 increasing awareness and trust. Competition law, on the other hand, addresses the
 impact of data on market power, ensuring that dominant firms do not exploit their
 data advantage to the detriment of competition. It aims to protect consumer welfare
 by promoting competitive pricing, innovation, and more diverse choices. 28.6 Abuse of a dominant position can manifest as either exclusionary or exploitative
 conduct. In the context of data, exclusionary abuses typically involve practices such
 as consolidating data sets from various services to exclude competitors and create
 barriers to entry. These tactics limit competition by preventing other firms from

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 12
 Public Version

 competing effectively in the market. On the other hand, exploitative abuses are
 characterized by actions like reducing service quality or demanding excessive user
 data for access to existing services. Such practices can degrade the quality of service
 and harm consumer welfare, as reduced privacy or misuse of data can be seen as a
 decrease in service quality. 28.7 Data-related practices might violate data protection laws, but they can also be seen
 as the imposition of unfair terms under competition law. This overlap creates a point
 of intersection between data protection and competition law, with each addressing
 different aspects of harm. Further, while data protection laws primarily focus on the
 processing of personal data, competition law can also intervene when non-personal
 but competition-sensitive data is abused. In this context, it is important to recognize
 that the concept of "user data" in digital platforms encompasses not just personal
 data, but also anonymized and aggregated data, which may not always align with
 traditional definitions of personal data. This broader view is crucial when analysing
 data-related competition concerns in digital markets. 28.8 Consequently, data-related practices can sometimes trigger concerns that require
 simultaneous intervention from multiple branches of law. For instance, data-driven
 conduct by a dominant firm may raise privacy concerns under data protection law
 and also constitute an abuse of market dominance under competition law. Therefore,
 a comprehensive approach is necessary to create a market structure that is
 competitive, transparent, and beneficial to consumers in terms of price, quality,
 privacy, choice, etc.

28.9 Data protection laws apply universally to all entities handling personal data, ensuring
 the privacy and rights of all individuals. In contrast, Section 4 of the Act, specifically
 applies only to dominant entities, imposing additional obligations to prevent abuse
 of market power. There is no inherent conflict or repugnancy between the two
 statutes, as the Act supplements data protection regulations by placing heightened
 responsibilities on dominant firms, ensuring they do not leverage their market
 position in a manner that distorts competition or harms consumer welfare. 28.10 In this regard, it is also apt to refer to observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission of India and Another (2017) 8
 SCC 47, which are extracted below: 28.11 The issue raised by the OPs have already been succinctly put to rest by the Division
 Bench of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the present matter itself. The Division
 Bench vide its judgement dated 25.08.2022 in LPA Nos. 163/2021 and 164/2021 has
 observed as follows: 28.12 Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its order dated 14.10.2022 refused to intervene and
 dismissed Special Leave Petitions Nos. 17121/2022 and 17332/2022 filed by Meta
 and WhatsApp, against the above-mentioned judgement of the Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court. 29. In conclusion, the jurisdiction of the Commission must be viewed in the light of its
 statutory mandate under the Act, which aims to prevent anti-competitive practices,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 15
 Public Version

 promote competition, and protect consumer interests. As observed by the Courts, the
 Commission's jurisdiction operates independently and concurrently with other
 authorities, including Constitutional Courts, even in instances where there may be a
 potential overlap in the subject matter of inquiries. The objectives of competition law,
 as set out in the Act, focus on promoting economic efficiency. Mere existence of parallel
 proceedings or the involvement of other authorities does not strip the Commission of its
 jurisdiction. Thus, the Commission retains the authority under the Act, irrespective of
 any ongoing legal proceedings in other forums, reaffirming its role as the market
 regulator and guardian of competition principles. Accordingly, exercise of its
 jurisdiction in the present matter is in full compliance with Commission's averments
 before the Hon'ble Delhi Court as well as the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 30. Based on the above, the Commission finds preliminary objections raised by the OPs as
 erroneous and misconceived and thus, the same are rejected. Role of Facebook India 31. Before adverting to issues on merit, it is also important to examine the submission of
 Facebook India and its role in the present matter. Facebook India has averred that,

 31.1 Case No. 30 of 2021 names Facebook India as an "Opposite Party", but it does not
 make any allegations specific to Facebook India. Further, the allegations which IFF
 makes regarding the conduct of what it terms as the "Facebook Group" (i.e.,
 WhatsApp, Meta and Facebook India) are based on the mistaken assumption that
 Facebook India issued the 2021 Update or is somehow involved in hosting, operating
 or controlling the WhatsApp Service, Facebook service, (Facebook) Messenger
 service or Instagram service, which it is not. 31.2 Facebook India's role is limited to being a service provider to Meta; it does not gather
 or collect user data for any other purpose, or share data with Meta for ads purposes.
 Further, (a) WhatsApp -- not Facebook India -- issued the 2021 Update; (b)
 Facebook India has no role in hosting, operating, or controlling the WhatsApp

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 16
 Public Version

 Service, the Facebook service, the Instagram service or the (Facebook) Messenger
 service; (c) Facebook India is not involved in WhatsApp's alleged collection and
 sharing of user data with Meta or any other Meta companies pursuant to the 2021
 Update; and (d) Facebook India is not involved in Meta's alleged use of user data
 received from WhatsApp. 32. Based on above, Facebook India has averred that its name ought to be deleted from the
 array of parties, or an order may be passed declaring that Facebook India has not violated Section 4 of the Act. 33. The Commission has perused the submissions of Facebook India. Based on these
 averments and the fact that WhatsApp and Meta have submitted to the jurisdiction of
 the Commission in relation to allegations under Section 4 of the Act, the Commission
 decided to delete name of Facebook India as one of the Opposite Parties in the matter
 in terms of Regulation 27 of the Competition Commission of India (General)
 Regulations, 2024 (General Regulations 2024). Accordingly, any reference to OPs or
 Opposite Parties in this order mean WhatsApp and Meta. The cause title of Case No. 30
 of 2021 is also directed to be amended accordingly. Relevant Market and Assessment of Dominance 34. The instant matter pertains to allegations of abuse of dominant position by the OPs in
 violation of Section 4 of the Act. The assessment framework under Section 4 requires
 delineation of relevant market(s) wherein the concerned entity operates, followed by an
 assessment of market power i.e., whether such entity holds a dominant position. Finally,
 the conduct of the dominant entity is examined to ascertain whether it is abusive in
 nature, in terms of various provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act. 35. Relevant market has been defined under Section 2(r) of the Act, as "the market which
 may be determined by the commission with reference to the relevant product market or
 the relevant geographic market or with reference to both the markets." Thus, delineation

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 17
 Public Version

 of relevant market generally has two dimensions i.e., relevant product market and the
 relevant geographic market. Similar position emerges from Section 19(5) of the Act. 36. Section 2(t) of the Act defines 'relevant product market' as "...a market comprising all
 those products or services (i) which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by
 the consumer, by reason of characteristics of the products or services, their prices and
 intended use; or (ii)....." Moreover, Section l9(7) of the Act provides a list of factors to
 be considered by the Commission for determination of the relevant product market,
 which includes physical characteristics or end use of the goods or the nature of services,
 price of goods or services, consumer preferences, etc. The Competition (Amendment)
 Act, 2023 has inter alia introduced costs associated with switching demand or supply
 to other goods or services as one of such factors. 37. Relevant geographic market has been defined under Section 2(s) of the Act as "a market
 comprising the area in which the conditions of competition for supply of goods or
 provision of services or demand of goods or services are distinctly homogenous and can
 be distinguished from the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas". In this
 regard, Section 19(6) of the Act lists various factors which may be given due regard to
 by the Commission while determining the relevant geographic market viz. regulatory
 trade barriers, local specification requirements, language, transport costs, consumer
 preferences, etc. 38. As observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Civil Appeal No. 6691 of 2014
 titled Competition Commission of India v. Co-ordination Committee of Artists and
 Technicians of WB. Film and Television and Ors. , market definition is a tool to identify
 and define the boundaries of competition between firms. The main purpose of market
 definition is to identify in a systematic way the competitive constraints that the
 undertakings involved face. Further, the objective of defining a market in both its
 product and geographic dimension is to identify those actual competitors of the
 undertaking involved that can constrain its behaviour and prevent it from behaving
 independently of competitive pressure. 39. After delineation of the relevant market(s), the next step for assessing the alleged abuse
 of dominant position in terms of Section 4 of the Act, is to examine whether the
 concerned entity holds dominant position in the relevant market(s), so identified.
 Explanation (a) to Section 4 of the Act sets out the test for dominance as, "a position of
 strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market, in India, which enables it to: 40. In the instant matter, allegations against OPs are particularly related to the WhatsApp
 2021 Privacy Policy update, which made it mandatory for WhatsApp users to accept the
 terms and conditions in order to retain their WhatsApp account, data sharing with Meta,
 leveraging and creating entry barriers leading to denial of market access in the online
 display advertising services. Based on information available on record, it is noted that
 Meta offers display advertisement services to advertisers through Facebook and
 Instagram and OTT messaging services to users through WhatsApp. 41. In order to assess the conduct of the OPs, the DG in its Investigation Report has
 delineated following relevant markets i.e.,

 a. Market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India; and
 b. Market for online display advertising in India. 42. The DG has also found Meta to be dominant in the first relevant market. 43. The reasoning and findings of the DG, submissions of the parties thereon and the
 analysis of the Commission, in this regard, are given in succeeding paragraphs. A. Market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in India

 Relevant Market 44. The allegations in the present matter emanate from the updated privacy policy of
 WhatsApp, an Over-The-Top (OTT) messaging App with features of multitude type of
 communication and linked to a smartphone device and mobile number. It is noted that
 OTT messaging services are communication platforms that operate over the internet and
 are provided by third-party companies, not requiring traditional telecommunication
 networks. These services enable users to send and receive messages, share multimedia
 content, make voice and video calls, and create groups without relying on SMS or voice
 call services offered by mobile network operators. 45. The Investigation has observed that OTT messaging apps have unique features which
 indicate that it forms a separate and distinct market and cannot be substituted or
 interchanged with the traditional electronic communication services such as text
 messaging, voice calls, etc. Accordingly, after examining the physical characteristics,
 price and consumer preference of the OTT messaging apps, the DG has found the same
 to constitute a distinct relevant market. The DG has inter alia further noted that some
 consumer communication apps are proprietary in nature i.e., available on only one
 operating system such as FaceTime and iMessage service which are available on Apple's
 iPhones and, therefore do not form part of the relevant market for OTT messaging apps
 in India. Regarding the geographic market, the DG has noted that the OTT messaging
 apps for a country are similar in terms of price, functionality or operating system. Hence,
 the Investigation delineated the geographical market in this case as territory of India.
 Thus, first relevant market delineated by the DG the 'market for the OTT messaging
 apps through smartphones in India'. 46. The Commission notes that: 47.1 In contrast to the narrow and flawed market definition set forth in the DG Report,
 WhatsApp actually operates in the broad and highly competitive market for user
 attention. WhatsApp competes with all digital products and services that seek to
 capture user attention through different services or functionalities, such as social
 networking, messaging, gaming, content viewing and sharing, photo and video
 sharing, or music, amongst many others. WhatsApp claims that these services are
 substitutable from the perspective of the user and form part of the same relevant
 market. In this regard, WhatsApp has also relied on outage of Meta's family of apps,
 including the WhatsApp Service, on 04.10.2021 (Outage). Based on few reports,
 WhatsApp has asserted that services such as Netflix, X (formerly Twitter),
 Snapchat, Signal, and Telegram saw an increase in user engagement during the
 Outage. WhatsApp asserts that the fact that users shifted to a wide range of services
 in response to the Outage (as opposed to just consumer communication services or
 OTT messaging apps) demonstrates that these wide range of services are
 substitutable. 47.2 Indian users exhibit a high degree of multi-homing by installing and switching
 between numerous applications on their devices. The high degree of switching
 between various services, including social media service providers, entertainment
 services, and other companies, demonstrates how the market cannot be limited to
 merely specific modes of engagement, but should broadly be defined as the "market
 for user attention". 47.3 The narrowest possible definition of relevant product market claimed by WhatsApp
 is that of "consumer communication services" and the same should not be
 segregated based on functionality (for instance, no distinction should be made

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 22
 Public Version

 between messaging / audio / video services) in view of the demand and supply-side
 realities. The consumer communication services market includes not only OTT
 messaging apps such as JioChat, Zoom, Skype, Signal, Telegram, and Snapchat, but
 also SMS, MMS, RCS, voice services, proprietary apps (such as FaceTime,
 iMessage and Google Messages), and email. Each of these services is substitutable
 for the other; their intended use is similar (communication), their price is similar
 (free), and they are all offered on the same device. 47.4 Consumer communications market should also not be segmented based on devices. Most consumer communication services are available across devices (i.e., desktops,
 smartphones, tablets, etc.). Google Duo, Signal, Skype, Telegram, Viber and
 Snapchat are all available on PCs and mobile phones, as are proprietary apps such
 as FaceTime, iMessage, and Discord. 47.5 The Investigation Report fails to collect relevant evidence, e.g., through user
 surveys, or consider market reports to assess demand-side substitutability, which is
 a key factor for arriving at the market definition. The DG fails to account for the
 fact that users regularly switch between various multi-functional online service
 providers (i.e., multi-homing), and that new and existing online competitors are
 constantly evolving, innovating, and adopting new features (including rich
 communication services as well as other features) to attract and retain user interest. 47.6 Investigation Report improperly excludes important rivals solely on the basis that
 their offerings' functionalities do not perfectly match the DG's notion of a
 hypothetical direct messaging service, despite failing to provide any supporting
 evidence on actual user behaviour (such as survey evidence on which functional
 characteristics are linked to user demand substitution patterns). For example, the
 Investigation Report describes Koo as a micro blogging service, Slack as a B2B
 business tool, and Discord as a group chatting platform, and excludes these rivals
 from its alleged market without any analysis of user substitution between them and

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 23
 Public Version

 the WhatsApp Service, despite the fact that those services also provide vibrant
 messaging functionalities. 47.7 Due to flawed and incomplete analysis, the Investigation Report also incorrectly
 excludes short messaging services (SMS), multimedia messaging services (MMS),
 and rich communication services (RCS) from the alleged market even though they
 offer the same functionality as instant messaging services. The Investigation Report
 excludes important mediums of communications like email and voice over internet
 protocol from the alleged market, despite both being substitutes for instant
 messaging. 47.8 Investigation Report fails to undertake a proper economic analysis suitable for zero- priced products and instead, it merely relies upon the PF Order. This demonstrates
 confirmation bias. 47.9 Investigation Report incorrectly limits the relevant geographic market to India
 without any analysis. Although there are certain differences in the regulatory
 regimes in different countries, those differences do not materially affect competition
 or demand. An objective assessment of the competitive and dynamic realities of the
 market supports a global definition of the market and the Investigation Report's
 analysis is flawed, because: (a) markets for digital services are global as:- (i) players
 typically operate globally, and (ii) functionalities of services rarely differ from
 country-to-country; and (b) WhatsApp's product decisions are typically made on a
 global basis to offer a consistent user experience across the globe. 48. The Commission has perused the information available on record and the observations
 of the Commission in respect of delineation of the abovementioned relevant market, are
 as follows: whether groceries, clothing, entertainment, or travel--belongs to a single market,
 which contradicts established competition law principles of substitutability. Just as
 these diverse categories cannot be lumped into the same market merely because
 they all compete for a share of the consumer's wallet, digital platforms cannot be
 considered part of a single "market for user attention" simply because they vie for
 time spent on their platforms. Each platform offers distinct services that fulfil
 specific consumer needs, making it essential to define their markets separately
 based on the nature and purpose of the service provided, rather than viewing them
 as competitors for user attention in an overly generalized manner. 48.3 While it is true that in advertising markets, the users' time and attention are treated
 as valuable commodities that advertisers seek to purchase, this does not imply that
 user attention itself constitutes a relevant product market under competition law.
 The demand from advertisers is fundamentally different from the demand of users.
 For advertisers, platforms like Facebook provide access to users' attention through

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 25
 Public Version

 targeted ads, which helps advertisers promote their products or services and drive
 sales. However, for users, the platform meets their demand for social networking,
 communication, or content sharing. The two sides of the market serve distinct
 demands i.e., advertisers seek to reach potential customers, while users seek to
 connect and communicate with each other. Therefore, defining the market as one
 for "user attention" may erroneously conflate these two distinct types of demand
 coming from two distinct user sides, which competition law does not intend to do.
 Instead, competition law looks at the relevant product market from the perspective
 of the distinct needs and preferences of each market side, recognizing that user and
 advertiser demands are not interchangeable or substitutable. 48.4 Specifically in relation to reliance placed by WhatsApp on the Outage, the
 Commission is of the view that firstly, even assuming that users temporarily shifted
 to other platforms like Netflix, Snapchat, or Twitter during the outage, this appears
 to be more a reflection of the immediate need to fill a communication or
 entertainment void rather than a fundamental substitutability between these
 services. Secondly, the consumer shift during the outage appears to be temporary
 and driven by the lack of access to their preferred platform, not a non-transitory
 behavioural change that suggests these services are direct substitutes. There is no
 evidence on record to suggest the contrary. Suppose people go to a cinema hall in a
 mall to watch a movie, but when they find that tickets are unavailable, they decide
 to have dinner in an adjoining restaurant instead. This situation does not imply that
 the cinema hall and the restaurant are competitors. The cinema hall and the
 restaurant serve fundamentally different consumer needs i.e., one offers
 entertainment, while the other provides food and dining. The fact that consumers
 opted for a restaurant due to the unavailability of movie tickets reflects a temporary
 shift in their activity within the same location, not a substitutive relationship
 between the two businesses. Similarly, during the Facebook outage, users may have
 temporarily turned to other platforms or services, but this does not necessarily mean
 those services are in direct competition with Facebook or its messaging apps. Therefore, the contention of WhatsApp in relation to broader user attention market
 is rejected sans merit. 48.5 OTT messaging services are generally free or available at a significantly lower cost
 compared to traditional communication methods like SMS or MMS, which are
 typically chargeable by telecom providers. Users of OTT messaging apps do not
 incur costs for individual messages, voice, or video calls; instead, they only need to
 pay for internet access, which is often already covered by existing data plans or Wi-
 Fi connections. While telecom operators may offer messaging packages for
 traditional services, additional charges frequently apply for sending MMS,
 international messages, or messages during roaming. This contrast in cost structures
 presents a significant advantage for OTT messaging apps, as users can
 communicate without worrying about variable fees. The cost savings associated
 with OTT messaging apps have been a key factor in their widespread adoption, as
 they offer a more economical option for a broad range of communication needs. 48.6 OTT messaging apps function as closed user group services, meaning that
 communication is restricted to users who have installed the same app. For example,
 a user on WhatsApp can only send messages to others who also use WhatsApp;
 they cannot directly communicate with users on a different OTT platform, like
 Telegram or Signal. This model creates distinct, isolated networks where users must
 align their app choices to communicate. In contrast, SMS / MMS / RCS allow
 communication across different devices, networks, and operating systems without
 requiring a specific app. While SMS / MMS and OTT messaging apps both serve
 the primary function of communication, they are not direct replacements for one
 another and often exhibit a certain degree of complementarity. Thus, traditional
 electronic communication services and OTT messaging applications are not
 substitutable, and these two services constitute separate relevant product markets. 48.7 In relation to OP's contention regarding substitution between OTT messaging apps
 and email services, the Commission is of the view that these modes differ

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 27
 Public Version

 significantly in their style, speed, and delivery. Email is typically used for more
 formal, structured communication and often involves longer messages with detailed
 content or attachments like documents and files. It is suited for professional or
 official exchanges and does not emphasize real-time interaction. In contrast, OTT
 messaging apps, such as WhatsApp or Signal, are designed for instant, real-time
 communication, favouring shorter, conversational messages with features like
 multimedia sharing, voice and video calls, and often include read receipts and
 online status indicators, providing a more dynamic and interactive communication
 experience. The user interface and accessibility of these platforms also vary. Email
 is accessible on both desktop and mobile platforms but are generally optimized for
 desktop use, where users can manage longer messages and more complex tasks.
 Conversely, OTT messaging apps are highly optimized for mobile devices,
 emphasizing quick messaging and ease of use for continuous, ongoing
 conversations. Another key difference lies in integration and functionality. Email
 integrates well with various productivity tools, such as calendars, task management
 apps, etc., making it an essential tool for business and professional environments.
 OTT messaging apps focus more on social interaction and multimedia
 communication, integrating features for voice and video calls, group chats, location
 sharing, and even payments. 48.8 The DG has also distinguished between OTT messaging apps and proprietary apps
 such as Apple's FaceTime and iMessage which has been contested by the OPs. In
 this regard, it is noted that consumer communication apps that are proprietary and
 limited to a single operating system, such as Apple's FaceTime and iMessage, are
 not substitutable for OTT messaging apps (interoperable across devices) because
 they restrict communication to users within a specific ecosystem, creating a "walled
 garden" effect. These proprietary apps only allow (or allow with limitations)
 messaging and calling between users who own devices compatible with the same
 operating system, in this case, Apple's iOS, effectively excluding users on other
 platforms like Android or Windows. This limitation contrasts with interoperable
 OTT messaging apps, such as WhatsApp or Telegram, which operate across

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 28
 Public Version

 multiple platforms and devices, allowing seamless communication regardless of the
 user's choice of device or operating system. Consequently, proprietary apps lack the
 flexibility, reach, and inclusiveness of interoperable OTT messaging services,
 making them less suitable as a universal communication tool, particularly in a
 diverse and interconnected user base. 48.9 It has also been contended that the Investigation Report incorrectly excludes
 services such as Discord, Koo, and Slack from the alleged relevant market. Based
 on the characteristics and intended uses of apps like Koo, X (formerly Twitter),
 Slack, and Discord compared to OTT messaging apps, it emerges that these
 platforms are not considered substitutes for OTT messaging apps by consumers.
 The primary reason for this is the distinct functionalities and user purposes each
 app serves. OTT messaging apps like WhatsApp are designed primarily for instant,
 real-time communication, including text messaging, voice and video calls, and
 multimedia sharing. In contrast, Koo and X (Twitter) primarily serve as
 microblogging and social networking platforms, where the focus is on public
 broadcasting, following, and interacting with content from a broad audience. They
 are designed for sharing news, opinions, and engaging in public discourse, not for
 private, one-on-one or group communication. Similarly, Slack and Discord are
 primarily collaboration tools, intended for team communication and project
 management in professional or community settings. They offer features like
 organized channels, integration with various productivity tools, and specific
 functionalities for task management, which are not typical of OTT messaging apps
 like WhatsApp. 48.10 Regarding the contention by the OPs that the consumer communications market
 should not be segmented based on devices, it is important to note that using
 WhatsApp Web or the desktop version still requires a phone number and an active
 connection to a smartphone. This prerequisite means that WhatsApp's core service
 is inherently tied to a smartphone, making it fundamentally different from
 communication services that can operate independently on desktops or other

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 29
 Public Version

 devices. OTT messaging apps like WhatsApp, primarily designed for smartphones,
 provide seamless and instant messaging capabilities. Desktop-based
 communication apps are generally not optimized for the instant, always-on
 messaging experience typical of smartphone-based apps, which impacts how
 consumers perceive and use these services. The instantaneous messaging feature
 available on smartphone has led to WhatsApp's penetration in Indian markets.
 Moreover, the OPs have not provided data showing that any major competitor is
 excluded from the relevant market in a way that would reduce WhatsApp's market
 power. Apps available on PCs only, if any, lack reasonable substitutability with
 mobile apps due to key functional difference between both in terms of mobility.
 Even if WhatsApp's argument were accepted, it would not significantly change the
 market dynamics, as Meta's dominance with WhatsApp, due to its vast user base
 and smartphone-centric approach, remains largely unaffected. Therefore, device-
 based segmentation is required to accurately assess the competitive landscape and
 Meta's market power. 48.11 The OPs have also attempted to draw parallel between OTT messaging apps and
 video conferencing applications viz. Zoom, etc. In this regard, it is noted that OTT
 messaging apps like WhatsApp offer basic video calling features primarily designed
 for casual, one-on-one, or small group communication. However, they lack the
 advanced capabilities that define video conferencing solutions like Zoom, Google
 Meet, Microsoft Teams, and Cisco Webex. Video conferencing apps are built for
 more structured, professional meetings and can support a larger number of
 participants, cross-platform compatibility (across phones, tablets, and computers),
 screen sharing, recording, and the ability to invite participants via a dedicated
 meeting link. These functionalities make video conferencing solutions better suited
 for large-scale virtual meetings and collaborative environments, distinguishing
 them from the simpler video call services provided by OTT messaging apps, which
 are not direct substitutes for comprehensive conferencing needs. 48.12 Regarding the OP's claim for a global definition of the relevant geographic market,
 the Commission is of the view that the conditions of competition in the OTT
 messaging apps market are homogeneous within India, and thus the relevant market
 should be defined nationally, not globally. India has a unique regulatory
 environment that significantly impacts the operation of OTT messaging services.
 Regulatory policies, data privacy laws, and requirements for data localization can
 differ substantially from those in other countries, affecting how these services are
 provided and accessed in India. Further, it would be erroneous to include
 competitors not operating in India in the relevant market based on a global
 geographic definition, as claimed by WhatsApp as competition is determined by the
 choices available to consumers in a specific location. Therefore, the scope of
 relevant geographic market remains the territory of India. 49. The averments of the OPs in relation to multi-homing as well as zero-priced products
 have been examined while assessing dominance of the OPs in the relevant market. To
 conclude, an important factor in favour of considering OTT messaging apps as a distinct
 market is the comprehensive range of functionalities they offer, which cumulatively
 exceed the capabilities of other individual communication services like SMS, email, or
 single-purpose applications. Unlike SMS or email, which do not support real-time voice
 or video calls or group chats, OTT messaging apps such as WhatsApp provide a unified
 platform for various types of communication, including text messaging, voice and video
 calls, multimedia sharing, and group conversations. Similarly, while Apple's FaceTime
 is limited to video calls and is only compatible with Apple devices, it does not provide
 cross-platform messaging or allow calls to devices on other operating systems. OTT
 messaging apps bridge these gaps by offering seamless, cross-platform communication,
 real-time interaction, and additional features such as end-to-end encryption. This
 versatility and ease of use highlight why OTT messaging apps should be considered a
 distinct market segment, driven by consumer demand for multifunctional and integrated
 communication solutions. 50. Consumers increasingly demand communication services that seamlessly integrate
 multiple functions, enhancing their overall user experience. OTT messaging apps have
 met this demand by allowing users to effortlessly switch between different types of
 communication--such as instant messaging, voice calls, and video calls--at no extra
 cost. For example, a user can initiate a conversation through text messages and, within
 the same app, transition smoothly to a voice or video call, all without needing to switch
 platforms or incur additional charges. Devices equipped with cameras and microphones
 further enable this flexibility, allowing users to switch communication methods
 seamlessly without interrupting the conversation. This versatility has become a key
 feature of OTT messaging apps, meeting modern consumer expectations for integrated,
 fluid communication experiences that are convenient and cost-effective. 51. Thus, on a holistic consideration of the information available on record, the Commission
 agrees with the findings of the DG in this regard. Accordingly, based on the statutory
 scheme prescribed in the Act (including the parameters given in Section 19(6) and 19(7) ), the Commission delineates market for OTT messaging apps through
 smartphones in India as the first relevant market, for the purpose of the present matter. Assessment of Dominance of the OPs 52. Investigation also found that Meta operating though WhatsApp and Facebook
 Messenger in the market of OTT messaging apps in India is way ahead of other
 messaging apps. The DG has noted that WhatsApp is owned by Meta, which also
 operates Facebook, Facebook Messenger and Instagram, which adds on to their
 combined strength as a group. Further, as the parent company, Meta has been found to
 have considerable size and resources at its disposal. Considering the relative financial
 resources and Daily Active Users (DAUs) and Monthly Active Users (MAUs) of the
 OPs and the competing apps in the relevant market, direct network effects, the strong
 lock-in effects, absence of countervailing buying power, and control over huge data
 acting as barriers to market entry, the DG has found Meta group to be dominant in the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 32
 Public Version

 market for Over-The-Top (OTT) messaging apps through smartphones in India through
 WhatsApp. 53. The OPs on the other hand have contested the abovementioned finding of the DG and
 have inter alia averred that WhatsApp is not dominant in the market for user
 attention or even in the narrow segments of consumer communication services in India
 and the even narrower alleged relevant market of OTT messaging apps through
 smartphones in India. 54. The Commission has perused the information available on record and the observations
 of the Commission in respect of assessment of dominance of Meta through WhatsApp
 in the abovementioned market are elucidated in succeeding paras. Market Shares based on Daily Active Users and Monthly Active Users data 55. Market shares is a key element for understanding the market structure and the relative
 importance of competitors within a relevant market. While high market share can
 provide an important indication of an entity's market power, it is not the sole factor; a
 thorough analysis of all relevant factors is necessary to establish market power
 accurately. This is particularly true in technology markets, where rapid innovation and
 the fast-paced nature of the industry can lead to transient market shares. Despite this
 fluidity, consistently high market shares may still reflect substantial competitive
 advantages, such as the ability to leverage presence in neighbouring markets, economies
 of scale, and network effects, which can reinforce an entity's market position and protect
 it from competitive threats. Digital platforms and networks often exhibit a natural
 tendency towards concentration due to pronounced indirect and direct network effects.
 Indirect network effects occur when the value of a platform increases as more users join,
 attracting more third-party developers, advertisers, or content creators. Direct network
 effects happen when the platform's value grows directly with the number of its users, as
 seen in social networks or communication apps. Thus, determining market power
 requires a broader assessment that considers not only market shares but also the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 33
 Public Version

 underlying dynamics that drive concentration and user behaviour within digital
 ecosystems. 56. In relation to digital platforms, market position can be assessed based on user
 engagement, as app platforms consider frequent user interactions a key success factor.
 The DG has noted that Meta also regularly reports the number of its Daily Active Users
 (DAUs) to measure usage intensity and Monthly Active Users (MAUs) to gauge the
 active user community size. DAU represents the number of unique users who log in and
 engage with the app daily, regardless of how many times they do so. A steadily
 increasing DAU count indicates growing popularity and user retention, providing
 valuable insights into how users interact with the app. Further, compared to total user
 registrations, the share of DAUs is a more significant metric for assessing a platform's
 market position, especially for instant messaging apps where users connect with their
 contacts frequently. High DAU figures suggest a strong network value and a significant
 market position. 57. In this regard, the Investigation has collated data related to DAU as well as MAU from
 various competitors in the market: 58. It is noted from the abovementioned data that Meta's WhatsApp is way ahead of its
 rivals with million DAUs (after first 5 months of 2021) followed by another
 Meta's messaging app i.e., Facebook Messenger with million. The closest
 competitior is ShareChat with less than DAUs of WhatsApp i.e., million.
 The DAUs of WhatsApp are way beyond the cumulative number of its rivals suggesting
 a strong market position enjoyed by it. The situation tilts more in favour of Meta when
 DAUs of WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger are combined since both are owned by
 Meta. The strong market share lead enjoyed by Meta over its competitors gives a strong
 indication of competitive advantage that competitors are not able to match. 59. It is further noted that for OTT messaging apps, the market share based on DAUs is a
 key indicator of their competitive significance and market success. In the context of
 messaging apps, users typically engage in frequent, often daily, interactions with their
 contacts, sharing messages, multimedia, and other content in private or group settings.
 This high frequency of use reflects the app's importance in facilitating regular
 communication, making DAUs a crucial metric for evaluating the app's value and
 market position. The high market share in DAUs enjoyed by Meta (both in terms of
 absolute number and also in terms of considerable lead over other competitors) is
 particularly significant. The Commission further notes that while some users may use
 multiple messaging apps, this parallel usage is generally limited, with many users
 prioritizing one primary service over others. The combined DAUs of WhatsApp and
 Facebook Messenger, highlight Meta's strong market position, demonstrating the
 intensity of use and user preference for these platforms over their rivals. 60. In relation to MAUs, the DG has noted that MAU is another key performance indicator
 used by social networking and other companies to ascertain the number of unique users
 who visit a site within a month. MAU is defined as a registered user who logged in and
 visited a service in the last 30 days as on the date of measurement. In calculating MAUs,
 the date of measurement is the last day of a month. This stickiness metric indicates an
 app's ability to attract and retain users over time. It is used as a benchmark for
 determining the long-term performance, growth or popularity of any online site. A high

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 35
 Public Version

 MAU is an indication that a product / app enjoys good customer engagement and
 retention over a period of time. MAU data collated by the DG during investigation is as
 follows: 61. It is noted from the abovementioned data that Meta's WhatsApp is way ahead of its
 rivals with million MAUs (after first 5 months of 2021) followed by another
 Meta's messaging app i.e., Facebook Messenger with million. The closest
 competitior is ShareChat with less than approximately MAUs of WhatsApp i.e.,
 million. In this case also, the MAUs of WhatsApp are way beyond the
 cumulative number of its rivals suggesting a strong market position enjoyed by it. 62. It may be further noted that the WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger have consistently
 maintained high levels of DAUs and MAUs over the period starting from 2016
 indicating unassailable position and competitive strength enjoyed over peers. 63. In relation to the DAUs/MAUs data collated by the DG, the OPs have averred that
 Investigation Report's analysis of WhatsApp's market share based on DAU and MAU
 data cannot be relied upon as the Investigation Report itself admits that "... two major
 competitors namely Telegram and Signal did not provide [DAU and MAU] data. In the
 absence of this data analysis of dominance of OPs remains incomplete". 64. During the course of hearing, IFF submitted Statista's Companies and Products Report
 for Telegram (Telegram Statista Report), which provide various statistics related to
 Telegram application. As per the said report, between January and April of 2022, the
 average number of MAUs for Telegram in India stood at 86.6 million as against
 cumulative MAUs of Meta at (i.e., million for WhatsApp and
 million for Facebook Messenger). 65. In this regard, the Commission notes that Telegram vide its submission dated 23.06.2021
 has stated that total number of users of the Telegram app in India are approximately
 151.5 million and referred to a news article dated 13.01.2021 for the same. The relevant
 extract of the article is excerpted below: 66. Thus, even if download data were to be considered, the disparity between Telegram and
 WhatsApp in India is significant. As per the referenced news article, Telegram has
 approximately 151.5 million downloads in India since 2014, whereas WhatsApp has an
 overwhelming 1.4 billion downloads during the same period. This vast difference
 further underscores the substantial lead that WhatsApp enjoys in terms of user base and
 potential network effects. The number of downloads for Telegram pale in comparison
 to WhatsApp, reinforcing the conclusion that WhatsApp holds a dominant position in
 the Indian market, driven by its extensive user base and higher user engagement.
 Therefore, Telegram appears to be a relatively smaller player as compared to Meta in
 the relevant market. 67. In relation to Signal, the Commission notes from the Global Consumer Survey of
 Statista (August 2022) that Signal does not rank in the top 10 messenger services in
 India. The referenced news article states that Signal has a meagre 3.9 million downloads
 which implies low DAUs of Signal. Moreover, Signal has not responded to the letters
 sent by the DG seeking user data. The entity's lack of engagement with the regulatory

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 37
 Public Version

 process seems to suggest lack of concern regarding developments in the OTT messaging
 apps market in India. In the absence of any information to the contrary, the Commission
 concludes that Signal does not constitute a significant or formidable player in the Indian
 market. 68. The OPs have also relied on download data of Telegram and Signal app to assert that
 rapid increase in user base of these apps demonstrates that no single firm dominates the
 market. In this regard, it is important to refer to submissions made by WhatsApp (reply
 dated 05.07.2021) which is excerpted below: (Emphasis added) 69. In fact, as already stated, Meta in its financial statements also reports the number of its
 DAUs to measure usage intensity and MAUs to gauge the active user community size.
 A user may download an app but may not be using the same for various reasons.
 Therefore, the Commission is of the view that in assessing market dynamics within the
 OTT messaging app market, total number of downloads may not necessarily be a
 reliable metric for determining market presence or competitive strength especially in the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 38
 Public Version

 presence of better metric in the form of user engagement. Therefore, download data
 relied upon by the OPs to assert competitive constraints faced from Telegram and Signal
 is erroneous and misplaced. 70. Another key metric for evaluating user dependence on a platform is the ratio of DAU to
 MAU. This ratio provides insight into how frequently users engage with the platform
 within a given month. A ratio of 100% signifies that every user who visits the platform
 at least once a month is also accessing it on a daily basis, reflecting an exceptionally
 high level of user reliance and habitual interaction. Therefore, the closer the DAU/MAU
 ratio is to 100%, the greater the users' dependence on the platform, indicating that users
 consider it an integral part of their daily routines and are highly engaged with its
 services. Based on data presented above, it is noted that DAU/MAU ratio for WhatsApp
 is around whereas that of ShareChat, Snap and Viber are
 respectively. This indicates that WhatsApp users interact with their platforms more
 frequently and have higher platform dependency compared to other applications. 71. In addition to DAU and MAU data, the DG has relied on Statista Global Consumer
 Survey as of August 2022 in respect of top 10 most used Messenger services in India: 72. The DG has noted that in a consumer survey of 3,236 messenger user conducted by
 Statista, in response to a multi-pick question "which instant messenger service or video
 call service do you use frequently?" 90% users ranked WhatsApp as their mostly used
 service. The report also states that Signal does not rank in the top 10 messenger services
 in India. The Investigation further noted that WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger are
 the two top messenger service providers in India having 90% and 56% user share
 respectively which clearly indicates that these two are most popular apps in India. 73. However, the OPs have averred that DG's reliance on the Statista Report which is based
 on the Statista Survey - a broad survey designed to gather consumer insights and data
 on consumer characteristics - is improper both: (a) procedurally (as the Statista Survey
 is not part of the DG's record); and (b) substantively (as it is insufficient to support the
 DG's analysis of WhatsApp's alleged dominance). In this regard, the Commission notes
 that the OPs have provided a copy of the 2023 survey report (Annexure 9B of the
 Response dated 14.02.2024 filed by WhatsApp) which has similar findings/
 observations in relation to market presence of the OPs and its competitors i.e., Telegram
 and Signal. Therefore, the Commission is of the view that no prejudice has been caused
 to the OPs, procedurally. The Commission notes from the 2023 report that Signal ranks
 outside the top 10 of most used messenger services in India. The Report also states that (t)he share of messenger users using Signal declined by 1 percentage points since Q1 of
 2022. Further, 2023 report also present data as per which WhatsApp and Facebook
 Messenger are two top messenger service providers in India which are used by 89% and
 59%, respectively, of the users surveyed. This is followed by Telegram at 46%. This
 data also suggests that Meta group enjoys a dominant position in the relevant market. 74. The OPs have also contended that the Statista Survey is a broad survey designed to
 gather consumer insights and data on consumer characteristics from more than 15000
 brands across 56 countries and the same was not designed with the objective of
 providing reliable market shares of Indian OTT messaging app users. In this regard, the
 DG as well as the Commission have not used the information / data included in the
 Reports for calculating market shares but assessing market presence of WhatsApp,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 40
 Public Version

 Facebook Messenger, Telegram, Signal, etc. This information / data has to be assessed
 in conjunction with other data available on record to determine dominance of the OPs.
 In fact, the OPs have also relied on the same report to assert that the Statista Survey also
 demonstrates multi-homing as the total share of the "top 10 most used messenger
 services in India" significantly exceeds 100%". Therefore, the contentions of the OPs
 that reliance placed by the DG on Statista Survey is substantively improper is unfounded
 and thus, rejected. 75. The OP's argument appears contradictory. While the OPs claim that the Investigation
 Report fails to collect relevant evidence, such as conducting user surveys or referencing
 market reports, on the other hand, they challenge the reliance placed on the Statista
 survey, which does gather consumer insights. The Statista survey, focused on consumer
 behaviour, provides critical insights into how users interact with different messaging
 platforms, which are essential for understanding market presence and competition
 between OTT messaging apps. While the survey may not be perfectly tailored for
 determining exact market shares, consumer patterns captured in such reports are often
 used to assess the market presence of competitors in digital platform markets. Therefore,
 the reliance on consumer reports like Statista's remains appropriate for understanding
 market behaviour and competition in digital markets, including OTT messaging
 platforms, when seen in conjunction with other relevant factors. Network Effects, Switching Costs and Entry Barriers 76. In the market for OTT messaging apps, such as WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger,
 positive direct network effects significantly contribute to market dominance. These
 network effects occur when the value of a service increases as more users join, creating
 a self-reinforcing cycle where increasing user numbers attract even more users. In the
 case of OTT messaging apps, this cycle is evident, as users tend to prefer larger networks
 where they can connect with a broader range of contacts. The ability to find and
 communicate with known contacts on the same platform leads to a concentration of

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 41
 Public Version

 users on one app, enhancing the app's market power and making it difficult for
 competitors to attract users. 77. One of the reasons for such strong network effects is that it is very difficult to switch to
 a rival of WhatsApp. If most of the contacts of an individual user are already using
 WhatsApp, then it will be more difficult to switch to another platform because the user
 will lose the ability to communicate with them easily. For example, if a user has a group
 chat with his friends on WhatsApp, then he will not be able to continue that conversation
 if he switches to another platform. He will have to convince his friends to switch to the
 new platform as well. These contacts will have further contacts, they would also have
 to be persuaded to switch. Users wishing to switch will be faced with the question of
 whether they should switch to another network if a significant share of their previous
 contacts will not do the same. The incentive to switch to another social network
 therefore decreases with higher intensity of use of the previous network. It creates a
 'lock-in' effect and thus results in high entry barriers. 78. When a platform with a dominant user base, such as WhatsApp, is involved, users face
 significant switching costs when attempting to migrate to a new platform. These costs
 arise because users must convince their contacts to transfer to the new platform, which
 can be difficult when there is no interoperability between services. As a result, users are
 generally reluctant to switch unless the benefits provided by the new platform
 substantially outweigh the costs of leaving the existing network. The larger the user base
 of the dominant platform, the greater the switching costs, and thus, the higher the value
 or advantages the new platform must offer to make the switch attractive to users thereby,
 creating entry barriers for such platforms. 79. This self-reinforcing process promotes what is known as market "tipping." Once a
 messaging app reaches a critical size, the strong network effects make it challenging for
 competing platforms to gain a foothold in the market. New users are more likely to
 choose the largest network where most of their contacts already are, while existing users
 are reluctant to switch to smaller networks due to the limited connectivity they offer. As

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 42
 Public Version

 a result, smaller competitors often remain secondary or are effectively excluded from
 the market, creating a "winner takes most" or "winner takes all" scenario. For example,
 Meta's OTT messaging apps like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger have consistently
 high numbers of daily active users (DAUs) and monthly active users (MAUs), reflecting
 their strong market position. This exponential increase in DAU and MAU numbers also
 evidences presence of direct network effects wherein presence of users on the platform
 attracts more users. It is also noted that despite the announcement of 2021 Policy Update
 by WhatsApp in January 2021, its user base did not suffer any decline, and it kept
 increasing. 80. Moreover, these positive direct network effects are often accompanied by indirect
 network effects in multi-sided market ecosystem like the one operated by Meta
 (including WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Instagram, etc.), where the growth in the
 user base also attracts more third-party developers, advertisers, and content creators.
 This further consolidates Meta's market position, as more users mean more opportunities
 for monetization through targeted advertising and other services. This concentration
 process is ongoing and reinforces the market dominance of leading players, making it
 difficult for new entrants to compete effectively. 81. Indirect network effects enjoyed by Meta have played a crucial role in facilitating the
 introduction of business features on WhatsApp. As the user base of WhatsApp grew
 exponentially, the platform became more attractive also to businesses looking to reach
 a large and active customer base. This growth created a self-reinforcing cycle: the more
 users joined WhatsApp, the more businesses saw value in using the platform to engage
 with their customers, provide support, and drive sales. WhatsApp capitalized on this
 dynamic by introducing dedicated business features, such as WhatsApp Business API,
 product catalogues, automated messaging tools, and payment integration, to cater to the
 needs of businesses and enhance their interaction with customers. These features
 leveraged the platform's vast user network, allowing businesses to connect directly with
 users who were already highly engaged, thereby enhancing the utility of WhatsApp as
 both a communication tool and a business channel. This strategy illustrates how indirect

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 43
 Public Version

 network effects, where the growth in one group of users (businesses) is fuelled by the
 increase in another (individual users), have been pivotal in expanding WhatsApp's
 functionality beyond personal messaging to include robust business services. These
 indirect network effects, when combined with direct network effects, further elevate the
 barriers to entry for OTT messaging apps. 82. In relation to entry barriers, WhatsApp has averred that there are very low entry barriers
 for new players to enter the market, since the cost of operating is low, no big capital
 investment or large numbers of staff, or infrastructure investments, etc. are required. It
 has been also averred that Telegram in its submission to the DG states that the alleged
 market for OTT messaging apps is competitive and rivals do not face any barriers to
 entry / expansion in India. Further, reliance has also been placed on the Commission's
 order passed in Combination Registration No. 2020/06/747 (Jio/Jaadhu) wherein it has
 been observed that the consumer communication applications market does not exhibit
 significant entry barriers. As per WhatsApp, low entry barriers and numerous examples
 of entry, coupled with the easy portability and interoperability between consumer
 communication applications, also mitigates against network effects. 83. The OPs have also relied on a submission by Telegram to the DG allegedly stating that
 it has not faced any barriers to entry / expansion in India. In this regard, the Commission
 notes that the specific query of the DG to Telegram and reply of Telegram to the same
 which is extracted below: Telegram Reply dated 07.07.2021

 "It is clarified that the query 3 (xiii) of the Notice of the DG dated 27 May
 2021 ("Notice dated 27 May 2021") and the response of Telegram FZ-LLC
 to the same, filed on 23 June 2021, is in relation to "denial of market access" 84. Thus, it is noted that submission made by Telegram has been taken out of context by the
 OPs and in fact Telegram has not negated the importance of network effects as entry
 barriers, as claimed by the OPs. 85. It is observed that the primary entry barriers for new entrants in the OTT messaging
 market are the strong network effects, status quo bias and the challenge of reaching a
 critical mass of users. The DG has noted that many competitors in this space, with few
 exceptions, have experienced a steady decline in market share in recent years, with
 some, such as Hike, exiting the market altogether. 86. The significant disparity in DAU data between WhatsApp and its competitors, coupled
 with the reinforcing nature of network effects, also indicate that Meta is able to exert
 substantial competitive pressure on alternative OTT messaging platforms. However, the
 reverse is not true i.e., these rivals do not appear to exert competitive pressure on Meta,
 underscoring the dominant position Meta enjoys in the market. 87. In relation to reliance placed by the OPs on the Commission's previous decisions as
 mentioned above, it is noted that it is crucial to distinguish between the contexts of
 combination assessments and abuse of dominance proceedings. The decision under the
 Combination regulations is a forward-looking exercise where the Commission predicts
 potential market outcomes, anticipating future market dynamics to gauge the potential

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 45
 Public Version

 appreciable adverse effect on competition resulting from the combination. On the other
 hand, in abuse of dominance cases, the Commission must assess the prevailing market
 conditions to determine if any anticompetitive conduct is occurring. Thus, the
 Commission's conclusions from a dated assessment in an another context are not
 sufficient to disregard the market realities which have been unravelled in an in-depth
 investigation. Furthermore, in rapidly changing markets in particular, market assessment
 cannot have a static approach. In the present case, the Commission has the benefit of a
 detailed investigation which has revealed that network effects are a critical factor in
 determining the success of new entrants in the OTT messaging market. These network
 effects, which strengthen as more users join a platform, significantly hinder the ability
 of new players to enter and compete effectively. This is evidenced by the market exit of
 platforms like Hike, which struggled to gain traction against larger competitors with
 entrenched user bases. Therefore, it is imperative to assess market conditions on a case-
 by-case basis, particularly in the fast-evolving digital markets where the landscape can
 shift rapidly. 88. Additionally, the Commission must remain cautious in relying on past decisions, as
 precedents in such rapidly changing environments are of limited value compared to the
 necessity of understanding the economic realities at the time of assessment. In the
 present matter, based on the detailed investigation, the Commission is satisfied that
 significant entry barriers exist in the relevant market, and prior observations do not
 preclude a reassessment of market conditions. The emphasis is on the present findings,
 and past decisions should not bind the Commission's conclusions in a different factual
 and market context. Dependence of the consumers on the enterprise: 89. The DG has also examined dependence of users on WhatsApp and noted that there exists
 no countervailing buyer power which can effectively impact and constrain the market
 power of Meta in the relevant market. As per the DG, this is because of the scale
 advantage that large platforms possess which make it an unlikely possibility of users

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 46
 Public Version

 switching to another platform. Further, network effect not only restrict the existing users
 from leaving the platform, but also attracts new users to register on the platform. 90. In this regard, the OPs have inter alia contended that the DG has not contacted any users
 of WhatsApp or of other competing applications or consumer groups, etc. to assess their
 alleged dependence or inability to exert countervailing buyer power. It has been further
 contended that users can and do easily multi-home (i.e., switch to and between
 competitors), which demonstrates that there is no user dependence on a single service. In this regard, the OPs have also relied on Commission's order dated 01.06.2017 in Case
 No. 99 of 2016 ( Vinod Kumar Gupta v. WhatsApp ) as well as Commission's order dated
 19.07.2017 in Case Nos. 06 and 74 of 2015 ( Fast Track Call Cab Private Limited & Anr.
 v. ANI Technologies ). The OPs have also relied on research paper titled A Web Of
 Paradoxes: Empirical Evidence On Online Platform Users And Implications For
 Competition And Regulation In Digital Markets by Dr. Pinar Akman (Pinar Akman
 Paper), to assert that users switch between approximately four apps for communications
 / messaging. As per the said paper, 86% of Indian users engage in multi-homing when
 it comes to messaging / communication services. Accordingly, the OPs have claimed
 that consumers are not dependent on WhatsApp in terms of Section 19(4)(f) of the Act. 91. In this regard, the Commission is of the view that the impact of multi-homing on
 imposing competitive constraints in the OTT messaging market can be assessed based
 on two key factors i.e., the extent of multi-homing and the efficacy of multi-homing in
 creating competitive constraints. The OPs based on Pinar Akman Paper have claimed
 that 86% of Indian users engage in multi-homing for messaging services, meaning they
 use multiple platforms simultaneously, such as WhatsApp, Telegram, and Facebook
 Messenger. However, a closer look at the data casts doubts on the significance of multi-
 homing as a competitive force. E.g., if 86% of WhatsApp's MAUs, which stand at
 million in India in 2021, were also using other messaging apps, such as Telegram, one
 would expect Telegram's MAUs to be around million. However, as per the Statista
 report, Telegram's MAUs in India are only approximately 86.6 million, indicating a far
 smaller user base. Similar inferences can be drawn in respect of active user data related

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 47
 Public Version

 to Snapchat, etc. Accordingly, the extent of multi-homing claimed by the OPs is
 overstated and the claim of the OPs remains un-substantiated. 92. Furthermore, the parallel use of multiple services appears to be limited, with the
 majority of multi-homing users sticking with Meta's applications and other competitors,
 like Telegram or Signal, having much smaller user bases. 93. When assessing the efficacy of multi-homing in the context of OTT messaging apps, it
 is noted that platforms like WhatsApp are characterized by strong identity-based direct
 network effects, wherein their primary function is to enable direct communication
 between users, typically with known friends and acquaintances. For effective
 communication to occur, both parties must use the same messaging platform, as there is
 no interoperability or compatibility between different platforms. Consequently, the
 value and attractiveness of a messaging platform increases as its user base grows, as
 users are more likely to find their contacts on larger platforms, further reinforcing the
 network's market position. In such scenarios, multi-homing tends to have limited impact
 in weakening market power. This is because users derive the most value from platforms
 where the majority of their contacts are present, making them less likely to fully switch
 to or engage with other platforms, even if they multi-home. The apps where users multi-
 home remain secondary apps for them. Consequently, platforms like WhatsApp can
 maintain their dominance despite the existence of competing services. 94. In the case of OTT messaging apps like WhatsApp, the efficacy of multi-homing is
 diminished by the personal network effects involved. Users are more likely to stay with
 the platform where their close contacts and primary communication circles are already
 active. The switching costs are high, as migrating to a less popular platform would result
 in losing access to key contacts or reducing communication efficiency. Therefore, while
 users may multi-home across different messaging platforms, their activity remains
 concentrated on the platform with the largest user base, limiting the competitive
 constraints imposed by multi-homing. Size, resource and economic power of the enterprise and competitors 95. The DG has also examined size, resources and economic power of Meta and its
 competitors in terms of its assets and revenue. Total assets and revenue earned by Meta
 from the year 2014 and 2020 (calendar years), are tabulated hereunder: 96. The DG has also compared value of assets and turnover of Meta with its rivals in India
 and the same is tabulated below: This gives Meta a competitive edge, enabling it to offer better services, enhance user
 experiences, and maintain its market-leading position in OTT messaging with platforms
 like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. 101. The DG has further noted that Facebook, Instagram, Facebook Messenger and
 WhatsApp belong to Meta group of companies which provides Meta group access to
 huge resources. The DG has further noted that these companies also share data amongst
 themselves, and such functional integration enables Meta to enjoy economies of scale. 102. In this regard, the OPs have contested these observations of the DG. The Commission
 notes that Meta operates a multi-sided ecosystem encompassing platforms like
 Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Messenger, connecting billions of users with
 advertisers, businesses, and developers. This ecosystem enables Meta to generate value
 from network effects, as users on one side (individuals) enhance the platform's
 attractiveness for the other side (advertisers and businesses). Meta's vast ecosystem of
 platforms allows it to collect immense amounts of data, which in turn strengthens its
 advertising business. This data advantage enhances Meta's ability to target
 advertisements more effectively than its competitors, thereby driving up revenues and
 further cementing its dominant market position. The scale of Meta's data collection
 enables it to continually refine and enhance its services, making it difficult for
 competitors to match the level of personalization and utility that Meta offers. 103. Meta also benefits from economies of scale, where the cost per user decreases as its user
 base grows, making it cheaper for Meta to operate on a large scale compared to smaller
 competitors. Additionally, Meta enjoys economies of scope, as it can leverage its
 existing infrastructure, technology, and data across multiple platforms (e.g., Facebook,
 Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger) to enhance the user experience and lock users into
 its ecosystem. This integrated approach makes it more challenging for users to switch
 to other platforms, further reinforcing its dominance. Other averments of the OPs 104. The OPs have also contended that the Investigation Report ignores the dynamic nature
 of zero-priced digital markets and does not conduct any economic analysis to determine
 dominance in such markets. Zero-priced markets are different from traditional markets,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 51
 Public Version

 where the ability to dictate 'price' is an important factor to assess dominance. The DG
 fails to apply any appropriate economic test or reasoning that is specific to zero-priced
 markets. It has also been averred that the Investigation Report fails to consider the high
 levels of innovation in zero-priced digital markets, disregards the importance of multi-
 homing in such markets as well as how new entrants in zero-priced markets can quickly
 gain users. 105. The Commission has carefully reviewed these arguments and observes that, under the
 Act, dominance is defined as the ability of an enterprise to operate independently of
 competitive forces or affect its competitors, consumers, or the market in its favour. Section 19(4) of the Act sets forth various factors for determining dominance, and these
 have been appropriately considered in this case. 106. Further, while users may not pay a monetary price for services in these markets, the
 notion of "zero price" is a misnomer as users provide non-monetary consideration,
 typically in the form of their personal data, in exchange for services offered by
 platforms. Thus, the concept of price extends beyond monetary payments,
 encompassing inter alia data exchange which is recognised by Section 2(o) of the Act.
 These factors are equally relevant in digital markets as they are in traditional markets.
 The OPs' assertion that the investigation disregards the distinctive aspects of zero-priced
 markets is therefore erroneous. The Commission concludes that a thorough and
 sufficient analysis has been conducted, consistent with the legal requirements under the
 Act. 107. The Commission notes that the statutory test for the assessment of dominance must be
 viewed in the context of market realities, including the ubiquitous use of WhatsApp in
 everyday life. WhatsApp's widespread adoption is not limited to individual users but
 extends to businesses and even government bodies, which utilize the platform for critical
 administrative functions. For instance, during the course of hearing, IFF referred to news
 article in relation to the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India launching a service using
 WhatsApp to provide advocates with important case-related information, such as cause

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 52
 Public Version

 lists, case filings, and case listings, directly via WhatsApp messages. Such examples are
 not un-common in respect of WhatsApp and the same illustrates how deeply integrated
 WhatsApp has become in both public and private spheres. Such pervasive use reinforces
 the platform's dominance, as reflected in the statutory test, which requires assessing an
 enterprise's ability to operate independently of competitive forces and its influence on
 consumers and market conditions. Daily life examples like this further substantiate the
 conclusion that Meta, through WhatsApp, holds a dominant position in the Indian
 market. WhatsApp has become synonymous with messaging itself indicating the
 platform's deep integration into everyday communication. Conclusion 108. Thus, on holistic consideration of the ecosystem operated by Meta, findings of the DG
 as well as submissions made by the IFF as well as the OPs along with other information
 available on record, the Commission concludes that Meta group operating through
 WhatsApp is dominant in the market for OTT messaging apps through smartphones in
 India. This dominant position is further strengthened due to presence of Facebook
 Messenger in the same market. B. Market for Online Display Advertising in India 109. The primary revenue generation activity of Meta is advertising; therefore, it becomes
 necessary to examine various modes of advertising and the market dynamics involved
 therein to identify competitive constraints on Meta. For the purpose of delineation of
 this relevant market, the DG has referred to submissions made by Informant, Meta and
 multiple third parties / competitors viz. Snap, Ally, Google, Inmobi, Twitter, Taboola,
 LinkedIn, Amazon, Pinterest, etc. In addition, the DG has also referred to jurisprudence
 of other anti-trust agencies in relation to online display advertisement market i.e.,
 European Commission, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, French
 Competition Authority, US Federal Trade Commission, UK CMA, etc. The observations
 of the DG in respect of this market inter alia are briefed below: 109.1 Online and offline markets are different markets and serve different purposes. Offline advertising is primarily used by the advertisers to create brand awareness,
 while online advertising is mainly used to trigger a direct consumer response.
 Further, online advertising is generally more cost-effective, provides easily
 measurable returns on investment, and offers better tracking of conversions. 109.2 Search and display advertising are separate markets and are not substitutable with
 each other. The DG has found that except Facebook and Google, all advertisers
 engaged in online advertisement business have admitted that search and display
 advertising are different markets. 109.2.1 Search ads are driven by user intent and proactive search queries, while
 display ads rely on targeting parameters and do not require proactive user
 engagement. 109.2.2 Search advertising and display advertising utilize different advertising
 technologies to deliver their ads. 109.2.3 Search advertising involves advertisers paying for text-based ads to appear
 alongside search engine results. Display advertising enables advertisers to
 place ads on websites or apps in a variety of formats, including banner-style
 adverts, 'native' advertising, sponsored content, and video advertising. 109.3 The Investigation has also noted that search engines such as Google and Bing
 mainly provide search advertising, whereas social networks such as Facebook,
 Instagram and YouTube provide display advertising. 109.4 In relation to geographic dimension of the relevant market, the Investigation has
 noted that the conditions of online display advertising are homogeneous across

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 54
 Public Version

 India. Further, competitive conditions and regulatory structure in India is different
 from the global conditions for the online display advertising market. 110. Thus, the Investigation has concluded that search and display advertising are not
 substitutable and hence, fall under different markets. Accordingly, the second relevant
 market in the instant case as delineated by the DG is the "market for online display
 advertising in India". 111. Meta on the other hand have contested the abovementioned market delineation. WhatsApp in its response has adopted submissions of Meta in relation to this relevant
 market. These averments are briefed as follows: It has also been averred that recent market events confirm that "search" and
 "display" advertising are substitutable, innovation and the rapid evolution of user
 preferences have further bolstered substitutability and also that technological
 changes have converged the purposes of online search and display advertising. 111.4 Investigation Report also erroneously limits the geographic market to India and the
 same is flawed, because: (a) markets for digital services and advertising services
 are global; (b) players in the advertising market (including Meta's rivals) offer
 similar services across countries (including India); and (c) Meta's product decisions
 are generally made on a global level. 112. For the purpose of delineation of the present market, the Commission has perused the
 information available on record and the observations of the Commission are elucidated
 in the succeeding paras. Distinction between Online and Offline modes of advertising 113. Offline Advertising refers to traditional methods such as print (newspapers, magazines),
 broadcast (TV, radio), and outdoor displays (billboards, posters). It typically targets a
 broad audience and has physical presence but lacks the flexibility of real-time targeting
 and personalization. Online Advertising, on the other hand, encompasses digital
 channels such as display ads on websites, social media ads, search engine marketing,
 and video ads. This type allows for precise targeting, data-driven strategies, and real-
 time tracking of user engagement, enabling advertisers to adjust campaigns quickly. 114. Relevant extracts from the submissions of Snap Inc. (Snap) dated 20.07.2021, in this
 regard, are as follows: 115. The DG has also relied on decisions or reports of other competition authorities in
 relation to above distinction. The Commission has also perused these decisions and
 notes that: 116.1 Offline advertising, such as print and television, primarily aims to raise brand
 awareness by reaching a wide audience. On the other hand, online advertising,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 57
 Public Version

 particularly search ads, focuses on driving immediate consumer actions, such as
 purchases or downloads, by directly engaging users and leading them towards
 specific conversions. 116.2 The level of user engagement varies considerably between offline and online
 advertising. Online advertising allows users to instantly interact with ads by
 clicking, which redirects them to a website or product page, facilitating a direct
 response. In contrast, offline advertising does not offer immediate interaction,
 making the transition from initial engagement to action slower and less
 straightforward. 116.3 Online advertising tends to be more cost-efficient and often delivers a higher return
 on investment (ROI). It offers superior performance tracking, allowing advertisers
 to monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns in real time and make quick
 adjustments to optimize their strategies. This level of agility is less feasible with
 traditional offline advertising methods. 116.4 Online advertising offers the advantage of real-time monitoring and analysis. Advertisers can directly trace clicks and consumer actions back to specific ads,
 providing an immediate measure of success. This precision in tracking is not
 possible in offline advertising, where results are harder to quantify. Thus, online
 advertising enables tracking of user behaviour, providing insights into engagement
 that offline methods cannot match. This capacity for detailed tracking and targeting
 makes online advertising more effective in reaching specific audiences. 116.5 The audience reach differs between offline and online advertising. Offline platforms
 like television or newspapers tend to reach a broader, more diverse demographic,
 while online advertising allows for more precise targeting, particularly engaging
 younger, tech-savvy consumers. 116.6 With rapid digitalization of commerce, businesses need to focus on enhancing their
 digital visibility to ensure their advertising efforts remain effective. For businesses
 in modern times, relying entirely on offline advertising is not a practical option, as
 it lacks the reach and engagement capabilities that are essential for connecting with
 their primary audience through digital channels. 117. In conclusion, the clear distinctions in audience, engagement, cost, monitoring
 capabilities and purpose, reach between offline and online advertising suggest that they
 operate in separate but complementary markets. Distinction between Search and Display Advertising 118. It is noted that display advertising refers to visual ads that appear on websites, apps, or
 social media platforms, often in the form of banners, images, or videos. These ads are
 designed to attract attention and drive traffic to a specific webpage, product, or service,
 typically focusing on brand visibility and awareness. Whereas search advertising
 involves placing ads on search engine results pages (SERPs). These ads appear when
 users search for specific keywords, making them highly targeted and intent-driven, as
 they reach users who are actively looking for related products or services. 119. For assessing the distinction between search and display modes of advertising, from the
 perspective of delineation of relevant market, it is important to refer to submissions
 made by various parties, as follows: With search advertising, the users have already input a query, so they are
 either primed to take an action or are doing research for a future action.
 Thus, search advertising is really focused on the bottom of the funnel-intent
 and conversion. Display advertising can serve the entire funnel
 (awareness, consideration, intent, and conversion). Thus, for example, if
 an advertiser just started a new brand, it would be less likely to use search
 advertising to raise brand awareness and inform potential customers about
 its brand and product. The targeting capabilities are therefore different between online search
 ads and online display ads. The biggest difference is that search
 advertising is intent- driven, whereas display advertising is audience
 driven. For search advertising, advertisers bid on geography and
 keywords. For display advertising, the advertiser bids on characteristics
 of the user. The planning of search ad campaigns tends to be more
 straightforward, because search ads tend to be text based, whereas display
 ads are photo or video based." 119.2 LinkedIn Technology Information Private Limited vide its submission dated
 23.07.2021 has submitted that,

 "Marketers and advertisers seek to achieve sales through what's known in
 the industry as the "sales funnel," where the initial marketing activities
 begin at the top of the funnel with brand introduction then move through
 the middle, which involves building the brand favourability and gaining
 customer trust, then move toward the bottom of the funnel-where customers
 form an intent to purchase, conduct price comparisons, download any
 white papers, then ultimately arrive at the purchase decision. Marketers
 allocate their advertising spends across the sales funnel and at each level,
 have available a range of marketing channels to achieve their objectives.
 It is thus advantageous for digital advertising service providers to have
 robust solutions across the entire funnel process to maximize their share

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 60
 Public Version

 of the total digital advertising spend. ......search advertising has certain advantages as it enables marketers to
 reach the intended target audience with almost immediate results, where
 pay-per-click (PPC) ads are displayed directly on search results for a
 certain keyword or phrase. A PPC campaign can increase traffic to the
 marketer's website and drive higher conversions because in many
 instances, customers are actively searching keywords that are relevant to
 the marketer's product or service, i.e., qualified leads. Search advertising
 campaigns also allow for easy tracking and measurement of customer
 responses to the marketer's keywords and phrases..... Display advertising is mostly focused on the upper and medium portions
 of the sales funnel to introduce and build a brand in gaining consumer trust
 and interest. When a marketer tries to build its brand and move down the
 sales funnel towards conversion, the volume of consumer engagement and
 the ability to reach the target audience with higher frequency all play an
 important factor in that process. This is Facebook's key advantage in
 display advertising...." 119.3 Collectcent Digital Media Private Limited (Collectcent) is a digital advertising
 company offering performance based digital advertising services to companies.
 Relevant extracts from its submissions dated 30.06.2021 are as follows: Search advertising is offered primarily on Search engines by Search
 engines like Google search ads on Google.com search page. Display
 advertising is done across by all other type of Publishers, Websites or Apps
 on desktop or mobile. 119.4 Taboola lndia Private Limited (Taboola) is primarily engaged in the business of
 providing content recommendations to users by leveraging technology to place
 relevant advertisements on publishers' websites. In relation to the difference
 between the two types of advertisements, Taboola vide its reply dated 25.07.2021
 has submitted that, "....the main difference lies in users' awareness. Search ads
 only appear to those who are already searching for products and services, while

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 61
 Public Version

 display ads are paid placements that appear based on various targeting
 parameters...". Other submissions of Taboola are as follows: 119.5 Twitter, Inc. vide its reply dated 02.08.2021 has submitted that,

 Twitter understands that online search advertisements are displayed based
 on a proactive search query keyed by a user. Online display advertisements
 do not typically require users to proactively look for a product / service.
 Instead, online display advertisements are typically triggered when users
 browse through websites / mobile applications and their interests are
 matched to relevant advertisements." 119.6 InMobi Technology Services Private Limited (InMobi) vide its submission dated
 09.07.2021 has stated that: 119.7 Xapads Media Private Limited (Xapads) is a digital advertisement and technology
 company in the field of digital / online marketing, delivering banners and video
 advertising campaigns through website and mobile applications. Xapads vide its
 submission dated 07.07.2021 has submitted that: No, the segments of search and display advertisements are not inter-
 changeable. Majority of the advertisers have different advertisement
 budgets for Search, Social and Display Advertisements." ......... 119.8 Affle lndia Limited (Affle) is a technology company with a proprietary consumer
 intelligence platform that delivers consumer engagements, acquisitions and
 transactions through relevant Mobile Advertising. Affle vide its submission dated
 30.07.2021 has submitted that: ....... (ix) ls there any inter-changeability between search and display
 advertising? Technically advertisers have an option to do both search and display
 advertising but most of these advertisers allocate separate budgets for both
 due to inherent differences between the two types of advertising. Some
 early stage advertisers find it easier to start with search as there the user
 interest / intent is most validated vs. display where the relevance of the ad
 is more inferred by the platform delivering the ad vs. being implicitly stated
 by the user. 119.9 Pinterest, Inc. (Pinterest) provides a suite of advertising products, including brand
 and performance-based advertising. Pinterest vide its submission dated 22.07.2021
 has submitted as follows: Reply: While display ads can show up on sites across the Internet, search
 ads only appear in search engine results. Advertisers select a list of
 keywords that are relevant to their company or products and can bid to
 have their ad show when someone searches for those words or phrase. 119.11 Inuxu Digital Media Technologies Private Limited (Inuxu) offers Digital & Social
 Media Advertising solutions to advertisers / brands. Inuxu vide its submission dated
 17.07.2021 has submitted that: ....... kind of ads, so for new businesses / products or services display ads would
 be the first go to choice in terms of brand building. Globally overall display
 ad spends are also more than search ad spends." 119.12 In addition to above, the Commission has also perused submissions made by other
 parties in the matter viz. Ally Digital Media, etc. which have made similar
 submissions. 120. The DG has also referred to various reports from anti-trust agencies across the globe. Important observations from these reports are as follows: 121.1 Online search advertising and display advertising operate differently, each serving
 distinct purposes within the advertising ecosystem. Search ads are triggered when
 a user enters specific queries into a search engine, allowing advertisers to match
 those queries with relevant ads. This system is intent-driven, meaning users are
 actively looking for information, products, or services, which makes search
 advertising particularly effective for generating immediate responses or
 conversions. Users engaging with search ads are often closer to making a purchase
 decision, as they have already expressed interest through their queries. Search
 advertising is thus, particularly effective at the bottom of the funnel, or the final
 stage of the buying process. For example, a user searching for "best smartphones
 under INR 10,000" is likely near the end of her decision-making process, and search
 ads provide them with options that can lead directly to conversions such as
 purchases. 121.2 In contrast, display ads appear as users consume content on websites, apps, or social
 media platforms, typically without any direct user input or search query. These ads
 are interspersed with the content the user is viewing, such as news articles or social
 media updates, and are designed to raise awareness about a brand or product rather
 than directly prompting immediate action. Display ads target users based on their
 profile, behaviour, or past activity, making them audience driven. As a result,
 display advertising is more focused on building long-term brand awareness and
 generating interest at earlier stages of the sales funnel. At this stage, consumers may
 not be actively searching for a product, but are open to discovering new brands or
 products. 121.3 Search advertising operates on a pull method, where ads are shown to users who
 are actively seeking specific products or services by entering relevant search
 queries. In contrast, display advertising follows a push method, where ads are
 presented to users as they browse websites or apps, regardless of whether they are
 actively looking for the product or service being advertised. 121.4 The difference in targeting also reflects in the engagement and conversion
 capabilities of the two advertising types. Search ads are more likely to result in
 conversions because they reach users who are actively seeking relevant
 information, making them qualified leads. This is why search advertising
 campaigns often lead to higher website traffic and conversion rates. On the other
 hand, display ads, while less likely to generate immediate conversions, play a
 critical role in introducing products and services to new audiences and building
 brand recognition over time. 121.5 When it comes to performance tracking, search advertising has an edge. Advertisers
 can easily measure the success of their campaigns by tracking the number of clicks
 on ads and the conversion rates for specific keywords. This level of detail allows
 for precise adjustments to advertising strategies in real-time. In contrast, the impact
 of display ads is harder to quantify, as there is typically no direct link between
 viewing the advertisement and making a purchase. The effectiveness of display

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 68
 Public Version

 advertising is often measured in terms of brand awareness and engagement metrics
 rather than direct sales. 121.6 From a supply-side perspective, search advertising relies on advanced algorithms
 to match user queries with ads in real-time auctions, ensuring that the most relevant
 ads appear in response to specific searches. In contrast, display advertising is
 delivered through advertising networks that use data about users' browsing
 behaviour and interests to target them with appropriate ads across various websites
 and apps. 121.7 Search advertising is primarily conducted on search engines, such as Google, where
 ads are displayed directly on the search results page based on user queries. For
 instance, Google Search Ads appear alongside organic search results on
 Google.com. In contrast, display advertising is distributed across a wide range of
 publishers, including websites, mobile apps, and social media platforms. These ads
 are typically visual and can be shown on any digital platform that serves display
 ads, whether on desktop or mobile, targeting users as they consume various types
 of content. 121.8 Switching from providing search advertising services to display advertising, or vice
 versa, would require significant changes in technology, audience engagement
 mechanisms, and ad-serving infrastructure. For instance, search advertising relies
 heavily on keyword-based targeting, while display advertising focuses on user
 behaviour and profile data to place ads across websites and apps. These differences
 create substantial barriers to supply-side substitution between the two markets. This
 is corroborated by different players operating in search and display advertising
 markets (e.g., Google primarily in online search and Meta in online display). 122. The OPs have contended that advertisers can switch between the two modes of
 advertising and relied on the same to assert that they both belong to the same relevant
 market. In this regard, it is apt to refer to submission of following third parties: 122.1 Relevant extracts from submissions dated 30.06.2021 of Collectcent are as follows: Depends upon clients advertising strategy. Clients prefer to split budgets
 between both types of advertising. (x) ls a separate budget assigned for search and display advertising
 independently? Yes" Yes, there are separate budgets for Search, Social and Display
 Advertisements. Here's how a brand generally divides there advertisement
 budgets: Yes, in most cases we see this to be true. However, we believe that advertising / media agencies are more qualified
 to answer such questions as they manage these budgets on behalf of
 advertisers, and as Affle we play only in the display advertising market. 123. In view of the above, the Commission is of the view that advertisers appear to allocate
 their budgets separately between search and display advertising due to the significant
 functional differences between the two. Meta in its response has also acknowledged
 allocation of budgets for various mediums of advertising and asserted that low switching
 cost, multi-homing as well as willingness to move to new platforms as reasons for the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 70
 Public Version

 same. However, the Commission is of the view that given the significant differences
 between search and display advertisements, as elaborated above, one cannot replace the
 other. Rather, this division of budget reflects that advertisers see both forms of
 advertising as complementary tools rather than direct substitutes. By investing in both,
 advertisers ensure that they are effectively reaching their audience at various stages of
 the customer journey, reinforcing the idea that search and display ads work in tandem
 to achieve broader marketing objectives. IFF has also made similar arguments before
 the Commission. 124. The OPs have also averred that technical advancements in digital advertising enables
 substitutability between various mediums of advertising. For instance, Google not only
 runs ads on its search engine, but also has a display advertising delivery system. In this
 regard, the Commission notes that simply because a market player is present in both the
 segments does not mean that both the segments are substitutable. 125. The OPs also contend that the DG ignored submissions of two of Meta's largest rivals,
 i.e., Google and Amazon, which set out that there is substitutability between various
 mediums of advertising, without providing any reason. In this regard, the Commission
 has perused the submissions of Google and Amazon also. The Commission notes that
 in a previous case1, Google was found to be dominant in online search advertisement
 market. Therefore, the submissions of Google have to be considered guardedly.
 Therefore, instead of placing reliance on submissions of one or two parties, the
 assessment has to be done in the context of overall information available on record and
 the corresponding market reality. Based on a holistic assessment, the Commission is of
 the view that there is no substitutability between various mediums of advertising which
 warrants a single relevant market for advertising services. 126. The Commission also had the occasion to examine online advertisement services and
 made a distinction between search and non-search (display) advertising (Case No. 07 & 1 In Re: Matrimony.com Limited Vs. Google LLC & Others (Case No. 07 of 2012) & Consumer Unity
 & Trust Society (CUTS) Vs. Google LLC & Others (Case No. 30 of 2012), available at: search advertising are different from one another. The Commission in the said matter
 also noted that Google and Facebook (now Meta) operate in different markets i.e., search
 advertisement and display advertisement services. 127. In view of the above discussion, the Commission concludes that online display and
 online search advertisement are different in terms of price, characteristics and intended
 use and therefore, form part of separate relevant markets. 128. Regarding the OP' claim for a global definition of the relevant geographic market, the
 Commission is of the view that the conditions of competition in the online display
 advertisement market are homogeneous within India, and thus the relevant market
 should be defined nationally, not globally. India has a unique regulatory environment
 that significantly impacts the operation of advertisement industry. The OPs have not
 presented any concrete argument to evidence that conditions of competition in the online
 display advertisement market are homogeneous across the globe. Providing similar
 services across the globe or making of product decisions on a global basis, does not
 mean that competitive constraints are homogenous across the globe. Therefore, the
 scope of relevant geographic market remains the territory of India. 129. In view of the above discussion, the Commission is not convinced with the arguments
 put forth by the OPs and the Commission agrees with the findings of the DG.
 Accordingly, the Commission delineates second relevant market in the present matter
 as that of online display advertising in India. 130. To conclude, the Commission delineates following relevant markets in the present case: Section 4(2) of the Act lists out various conducts which tantamount to abuse of dominant
 position. At this stage, it would be prudent to reiterate the provisions of Section 4(2),
 which reads as follows: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or
 discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or service
 referred to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in
 purchase or sale of goods (including predatory price) or service
 referred to in sub-clause (ii) shall not include such condition or price
 which may be adopted to meet the competition; or (b) limits or restricts-- (i) production of goods or provision of services or market therefor; or (ii) technical or scientific development relating to goods or services to
 the prejudice of consumers; or (c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market access
 in any manner; or (d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other
 parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or
 according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject
 of such contracts; or (e) uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or
 protect, other relevant market. 133. The subject matter of the investigation in the present case was the privacy policy of
 WhatsApp and the resultant data collection practice of WhatsApp as well as sharing of
 the same with other Meta group companies and third parties. Based on the allegations

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 73
 Public Version

 made by the Informants and the prima facie observations of the Commission, the DG
 has identified and investigated four allegations against the OPs for examination. The
 reasoning and findings of the DG, submissions of the parties on these issues and the
 analysis of the Commission, in this regard, is given in succeeding paragraphs. A. 'Take-it-or-leave-it' 2021 Update by Meta (through WhatsApp) 134. The Commission in its PF Order had inter alia observed that as per 2021 Update of
 WhatsApp, users are required to accept the unilaterally dictated 'take-it-or-leave-it'
 terms in their entirety, including the data sharing provisions therein, if they wish to
 continue using WhatsApp services. It was further observed that WhatsApp users have
 not been provided with appropriate granular choice, neither upfront nor in the fine print,
 to object to or opt-out of specific data sharing terms, which prima facie appear to be
 unfair and unreasonable for the WhatsApp users. 135. In this regard, the observations / findings of the DG, after a detailed investigation, are
 briefed as follows: 137.7 As per WhatsApp, updated screens were shown to users, consistent with
 WhatsApp's confirmation that to communicate with friends and family, users who
 have not accepted the 2021 Update can continue using the WhatsApp Service
 without having their accounts deleted or losing functionality of the WhatsApp
 Service at least until a personal data protection legislation comes into effect in India.
 However, a perusal of the screenshots given below shows that there was no such
 information given to users and in fact, users were being led to accept the policy by
 providing only "Accept" option. 138. Based on the information and documents available on record, the Commission notes
 that under the previous privacy policy dated 25.08.2016, WhatsApp users were given
 the option to decide whether they wanted to share their data with Facebook. Users who
 did not wish to share their account information could opt out within 30 days of agreeing
 to the updated terms and privacy policy. However, with the latest policy update in 2021,
 WhatsApp made data sharing with Meta mandatory for all users, removing the earlier
 option to opt out. As a result, users had to accept the new terms, which include data
 sharing with Meta, in order to continue using the platform. This marked a significant
 shift from the 2016 policy. 139. WhatsApp has also asserted that it is continuing to honour the 2016 opt-out for anyone
 who chose it, and the most recent updates do not change that. If anyone who has
 previously opted out agrees to the 2021 Update, WhatsApp will acknowledge their
 agreement to the 2021 Update and also continue to honour their 2016 opt-out. In this
 regard, IFF has argued that by way of 2021 Update, the opt out of 2016 has also been
 negated as there is nothing in 2021 Update that suggests that 2016 opt out will be
 respected. It has been further averred that since the 2021 policy is an update to the 2016
 policy, any acceptance of it means that the user will be governed by the new terms,
 which include mandatory data sharing with Facebook. As per IFF, WhatsApp has only
 given vague statements that 2016 opt out will be respected, however, the same is not
 technically feasible and no evidence has been led qua the same. 140. In this regard, the DG has noted that the 2021 policy does not create a distinct segment
 for users who exercised their opt-out option in 2016. Instead, the 2021 policy mandates
 that all users, including those who previously opted out, must accept the new terms to
 continue using the service. This acceptance means agreeing to the sharing of data with
 Meta companies moving forward. While WhatsApp claims it will not share data of pre-
 2016 opt-out users up until the implementation of the 2021 policy, once these users
 accept the updated policy, their data from that point onwards will be shared with
 Facebook companies. 141. Sections 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act inter alia prohibits a dominant enterprise from imposing
 an unfair condition or price in the purchase or sale of goods or services. The 2021 policy
 update of WhatsApp demonstrates both "imposition" and "unfairness" for various
 reasons: 141.2 The notion of unfairness in competition law revolves around ensuring that a
 dominant enterprise does not use its market power to impose arbitrary or one-sided
 conditions on users. However, the 2021 policy update by WhatsApp disregards the
 legitimate expectations of the users to decide as to how their data would be collected
 and used. This arbitrary change is unfair because it undermines users' trust and
 deprives them of their right to decide. The absence of an opt-out mechanism for
 these new conditions makes the terms one-sided and exploitative. 141.3 The imposition and unfairness of the 2021 policy update are magnified by the
 network effects inherent in WhatsApp services. With a massive user base and the
 convenience of connecting with a broad range of contacts, WhatsApp enjoys a
 dominant position that makes it difficult for users to shift to alternative messaging
 platforms without incurring significant costs or inconvenience. Users are thus
 locked into the platform, and their dependence on WhatsApp as a primary

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 80
 Public Version

 communication tool means they have little or no bargaining power when faced with
 changes in terms and conditions. 141.4 The broadening of data-sharing terms under the 2021 policy has adverse
 implications for consumer welfare and competition in the market. By compelling
 all users to accept the data-sharing conditions, WhatsApp reduces the level of
 privacy (an important non-price parameter of competition in digital markets) that
 users expect, thus diminishing consumer welfare. Additionally, this conduct
 consolidates Meta's market power by allowing it to access more user data, creating
 a competitive disadvantage for other players in the market for display
 advertisement, who cannot match this level of data integration. Such anti-
 competitive effects are particularly harmful in the digital ecosystem, where data is
 a key competitive asset. 142. On 07.05.2021, WhatsApp announced that no user would have their account deleted or
 lose functionality due to non-acceptance of the 2021 policy update (supra). Further,
 WhatsApp vide its letter dated 22.05.2021 to Ministry of Electronics and Information
 Technology (MEITY) that it will not limit the functionality of how WhatsApp works in
 the coming weeks as previously planned. In this regard, the Commission is of the view
 that during the period from 05.01.2021 to 07.05.2021, a sense of urgency was created
 among the users, compelling them to accept the update out of fear of losing essential
 features or access to the platform. Consequently, many users accepted the policy not out
 of choice, but due to the pressure and confusion caused by WhatsApp's communication,
 forcing them to accept the policy out of coercion. 143. During the proceedings, WhatsApp has also submitted data related to number of
 subscribers as well as those who accepted the 2021 Policy. 143.1 On 04.01.2021, WhatsApp had approximately million cumulative registered
 users in India, out of whom only users (i.e., approximately of the
 total pre-existing users as on 04.01.2021) had opted out of the 2016 Update. 07.05.2021, when WhatsApp announced that it would not restrict the functionalities
 of the service post 15.05.2021. Placing reliance on this, WhatsApp has averred that
 an acceptance rate of only is inconsistent with compulsion on users, as
 alleged by the DG. 143.3 An additional approximately of these pre-existing users have accepted the
 2021 Update after 07.05.2021 (data gathered as on 28.03.2023), after WhatsApp's
 commitment that WhatsApp would not restrict the functionalities of the service if
 users did not accept the 2021 Update. 144. The Commission has carefully considered the submissions of WhatsApp. In this regard,
 the Commission notes that for the purpose of computing above percentages, WhatsApp
 has relied on registered users as the base (e.g., million users). Whereas, WhatsApp
 has itself stated that " WhatsApp's rivals offer services mostly free of charge, like WhatsApp. Therefore,
 users can download and use other messaging services quickly and easily and always
 have a meaningful choice. WhatsApp has also relied on the decision of the
 Commission in Vinod Kumar Gupta - CCI to assert that the market for instant
 messaging services using consumer communications apps through smartphones in
 India is characterised by low switching costs. In this regard, as elaborated earlier in
 this order, it is noted that switching costs in this market are in the context of network
 effects and not in monetary terms. Due to strong personal direct network effects,
 the users are not inclined to switch to alternative applications. The ever-expanding
 DAU and MAU numbers of WhatsApp are a testament to the same. Further,
 reliance placed by WhatsApp on the Commission's decision in Vinod Kumar Gupta - CCI is misplaced. Unlike Vinod Gupta case, in the present matter, the Commission
 has the benefit of a detailed investigation which has sufficiently brought out the
 switching costs associated with OTT messaging apps, as discussed earlier in this
 order. Therefore, the contentions of WhatsApp are rejected. 147.4 WhatsApp has also submitted that not providing an opt-out is simply industry
 practice, and not an abuse of any dominant position. WhatsApp has also referred to
 policies of various digital platforms for this purpose. In this regard, the Commission
 is of the view that Section 4 of the Act places a special responsibility on the
 dominant players that their conduct should not impinge on the competition on
 merits or cause consumer harm. The argument of aligning with industry practice is
 not sufficient justification for a dominant player because the competitive landscape
 and consumer impact are viewed differently for dominant firms than for non-
 dominant ones. Non-dominant players adopting similar practices may not fall under
 the scrutiny of Section 4 of the Act because their actions do not carry the same
 potential for anti-competitive result or consumer harm. In contrast, dominant firms
 have a higher level of responsibility and must avoid conduct that could exploit their
 market power. Accordingly, a dominant player engaged in conduct proscribed under Section 4 of the Act cannot take the plea of standard industry practice. The
 Commission's view is that the presence of these practices in the industry does not
 absolve a dominant firm from its responsibilities under Section 4, which aims to
 prevent the misuse of market power to the detriment of competition and consumer
 welfare. 148. The 2021 WhatsApp policy update exemplifies the problematic nature of "take-it-or- leave-it" terms imposed by dominant enterprises. By mandating that all users accept the
 new data-sharing terms with Meta (formerly Facebook) or lose access to the platform,
 WhatsApp has effectively stripped users of any real choice. Such terms are inherently
 coercive, as they force users to either agree to unfavourable conditions or discontinue a
 service they rely on for communication. This approach becomes particularly concerning
 in the context of dominant firms like WhatsApp, where network effects make switching
 to alternative platforms impractical and costly. With a vast user base and market
 influence of WhatsApp, users are left with no bargaining power, making the acceptance
 of the new policy a forced decision rather than a voluntary one. This kind of conduct
 highlights the exploitative nature of "take-it-or-leave-it" terms, where users are

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 85
 Public Version

 pressured to accept conditions that prioritize the company's commercial interests at the
 expense of user autonomy and degradation of privacy protection (a non-price parameter
 of competition amongst players), ultimately constituting an abuse of market power. B. Data collection and sharing of data by Meta (through WhatsApp) 149. It has been alleged that the data collected by WhatsApp is in the form of metadata and
 is very broad in nature. New categories have been added under 2021 policy. Further,
 many of the categories described in the 2021 policy are too broad, vague and
 unintelligible. It is also submitted that excessive data collection and inter platform
 linkage with other Meta companies is not justified vis-s-vis the services that the platform
 offers to the users i.e., messaging services. Identical service is being offered by several
 other platforms in the market where there is no such condition of collecting excessive
 data. 150. The observations and findings of the DG in relation to the captioned allegation are
 summarised below: The varied purposes for which the data is shared amongst Meta group companies
 inter alia include to meet growing demand to enable businesses to build their
 businesses and reach their customers globally, etc. 151. Based on above, the DG has concluded that the conduct of excessive data collection and
 sharing of data by Meta tantamount to imposition of unfair conditions violating the
 provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. 152. The OPs on the other hand have contested the findings of the DG. It has been inter alia
 submitted that 2021 Update does not expand WhatsApp's ability to collect data and does
 not expand its ability to share data with Meta. The primary aim of the 2021 Update is
 stated to be two-fold i.e., to provide: (a) users with additional transparency, using
 examples about how WhatsApp collects, uses and shares data; and (b) additional
 information about how optional business messaging features work when they become
 available to users. In particular, it was intended to: Information users provide 155. Users provide the following information to WhatsApp: 155.1 Account information: Including a user's mobile phone number, and profile name. Users may optionally provide a profile picture and "about" information; 155.2 Messages: WhatsApp does not retain users' individual or group messages in the
 ordinary course of providing its services (and the content of those personal
 messages is encrypted). Instead, messages are stored on users' devices, and not
 typically on WhatsApp's servers. Once a message is delivered, it is deleted from
 WhatsApp's servers. WhatsApp may store messages in the course of delivering
 them in the following circumstances: 156.1 Usage and log information: WhatsApp collects information about users' activities
 on its services, such as service-related, diagnostic, and performance information.
 This includes information about user activity (including how users use WhatsApp's
 services, user services settings, how a user interacts with others (including when
 interacting with businesses) using WhatsApp's services, and the time, frequency,
 and duration of user activities and interactions), log files, and diagnostic, crash,
 website, and performance logs and reports. This also includes information about: related features, such as when a user decides to share their location with their
 contacts, view locations "nearby" or view locations other users have shared with

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 90
 Public Version

 them. It has been stated that WhatsApp cannot see shared location information in
 personal messages between friends, family or co-workers as this is End-to-End
 Encrypted (E2ee). In addition, any location information is typically only retrieved,
 processed and stored locally on a user's device. Even if a user does not use
 WhatsApp's location-related features, WhatsApp uses IP addresses and other coarse
 location information (for example, phone number area codes) to estimate users'
 general location (for example, city and country). WhatsApp also uses coarse user
 location information for diagnostics and troubleshooting purposes; and

 156.3 Cookies: WhatsApp uses cookies to operate and provide its services, including to
 provide services that are web-based, improve users' experiences, understand how
 its services are being used, and to customize its services. For example, WhatsApp
 uses cookies to: provide its services for web and desktop and other web-based
 services; understand which of its Help Center articles are most popular and to show
 users relevant content related to its services; to remember users' choices, such as
 language preferences; to provide a safer experience; and otherwise to customize its
 services for users. 157. It is also submitted that WhatsApp may receive the following categories of data from
 third parties: party service providers may provide WhatsApp with information about users in
 certain circumstances; for example, app stores may provide WhatsApp with reports
 to help it diagnose and fix service issues; and

157.5 Third-party services: WhatsApp allows users to use its services in connection with
 third-party services and other Meta Companies' services. If a user uses WhatsApp's
 services with such third-party services or other Meta Companies' services,
 WhatsApp may receive information about the user from them; for example, if a user
 uses the WhatsApp share button on a news service to share a news article with their
 WhatsApp contacts, groups, or broadcast lists on WhatsApp's services, or if the
 user chooses to access WhatsApp's services through a mobile carrier's or device
 provider's promotion of its services. When a user uses third-party services or other
 Meta Companies' services, their own terms and privacy policies will govern the
 user's use of those services and products. Information about a business made available to WhatsApp by a business on
 WhatsApp 158. It is also submitted by WhatsApp that when a business user sets up and uses a WhatsApp
 Business account, or uses the WhatsApp Business API service, they provide certain
 information about themselves to WhatsApp. Examples of such information include: Information about the business' customer made available to WhatsApp by a business
 on WhatsApp 159. It is further submitted that in addition to the business-related information that businesses
 provide to WhatsApp when they set up and use the WhatsApp Business App or the
 WhatsApp Business API, businesses may also provide contact information (such as
 phone numbers) for their customers. 160. As per WhatsApp, when a user messages a business on WhatsApp, it is the business as
 the message recipient-not WhatsApp-that is in control of the message content. As such,
 it is up to the business to decide how to use this message content. 161. It is also submitted that section "Third-Party Information" of the 2021 Update, provides
 that when a user interacts with a business on the WhatsApp Service, then such business
 may provide information about these interactions to WhatsApp. 162. Further, WhatsApp uses the data collected from businesses on WhatsApp mainly for
 analytics, to improve product functionality, for troubleshooting, to provide business
 insights and support functionalities, for app entry point, for product personalisation, to
 enable WhatsApp businesses that advertise on Facebook's services to contact customers
 over WhatsApp if the customers click the "Send Message" button to start
 communicating with the WhatsApp business. 163. WhatsApp has submitted that various operations viz. rely on the Information collected and are essential to
 provide the WhatsApp Service. It has also submitted a list of essential activities that rely
 on each type of Information collected. 164. The Commission has perused the information available on record and notes that as
 already stated, the 2021 Update continues to use vague, broad and open-ended
 categories of information being collected. Similar approach was taken in the 2016
 Policy, based upon which it is being claimed that information being collected as per
 2021 Update is similar to that under 2016 Policy. Therefore, the exact scope of data
 being collected by WhatsApp and accordingly, sharing of same with other Meta
 companies remains in-determinable. Despite that specific data sets being referred to in
 the 2021 update have been examined. 164.1 A verbatim comparison of 2021 Update with that of 2016 Policy is provided below: information about your activity your activity (including how you use our
 (such as how you use our Services, your Services settings, how you interact
 Services, how you interact with with others using our Services (including when
 others using our Services, and the
 you interact with a business), and the time,
 like), log files, and diagnostic,
 frequency, and duration of your activities and
 crash, website, and performance interactions), log files, and diagnostic, crash,
 logs and reports. website, and performance logs and reports. This
 also includes information about when you
 registered to use our Services; the features you
 use like our messaging, calling, Status, groups
 (including group name, group picture, group
 description), payments or business features; profile photo, "about" information; whether you
 are online, when you last used our Services (your
 "last seen"); and when you last updated your
 "about" information. 164.2 The above table shows that 2021 Update expands the data points being collected
 from WhatsApp users. E.g., time, frequency, and duration of your activities and
 interactions, profile photo, "about" information; whether you are online, etc. under
 Usage and Log Information. Similarly, battery level and signal strength are being
 collected under Device and Connection Information. WhatsApp in this regard, has
 submitted that the language in the 2016 Update was not exhaustive in nature. Hence,
 it covers all the categories of data under the 2021 Update and that 2021 Update
 merely made it more transparent. 164.3 There are multiple data sets which are being collected from the users but the reason
 for collecting this data has not been communicated to the users. E.g., Device and
 Connection Information, general location data, etc. 165. WhatsApp has consistently claimed that the 2021 Update does not expand its ability to
 collect or share data with Meta (formerly Facebook). According to WhatsApp, the
 primary purpose of the update is to enhance transparency by providing users with clearer
 information on how their data is collected, used, and shared. The company argues that
 the 2016 Update had already disclosed its data collection and sharing practices with
 Meta, and the 2021 Update merely seeks to record users' acknowledgment of these
 existing terms. 166. The Commission finds this assertion as problematic, and the associated conduct as anti- competitive for several reasons. The language used in both the 2016 and 2021 policies

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 98
 Public Version

 is vague, broad, and open-ended, relying on terms such as "includes," "such as," and
 "for example." This creates uncertainty regarding the specific categories of information
 being collected and shared. Phrases like "service-related information," "mobile device
 information," and "interactions with others" lack clear definitions, leaving room for
 expansive interpretations that could extend beyond what users reasonably understand.
 The use of non-exhaustive lists in the policy suggests that WhatsApp retains the
 flexibility to expand the scope of data collection at any time and justify it as being
 covered under previous policies. 167. Such opacity and ambiguity in data policies is inherently unfair to users and raises
 significant competition concerns. Dominant platforms like WhatsApp, by virtue of their
 market power, can impose these broad terms without providing users a clear
 understanding of the true cost of using the service in terms of data sharing. This lack of
 transparency prevents users from making informed decisions and places them at a
 disadvantage, as they are unable to fully comprehend the extent of data being collected
 and shared or to seek alternatives that better protect their data. 168. Moreover, the ability of WhatsApp to unilaterally alter or interpret the scope of data
 collection without an effective choice for the user creates a situation where the platform
 can continuously increase its data capture without any real accountability. Accepting
 WhatsApp's position would set a precedent where dominant firms could continue
 expanding their data collection practices and justify it under vague and broadly worded
 past policies, effectively undermining user rights and choices. 169. Users in digital markets generally do not possess the same level of information or
 bargaining power as the platforms they engage with. WhatsApp's opaque policies take
 advantage of this information asymmetry, resulting in users accepting lopsided 'take-it-
 or-leave-it' policies. Vague and ambiguous terms of WhatsApp's 2021 Update allow
 Meta to exploit its dominant position and prevent effective competition by limiting user
 awareness and choice. Such practices are not only detrimental to consumer welfare but
 also undermine the competitive dynamics of digital markets, where transparency and

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 99
 Public Version

 effective choice is essential for ensuring fair competition and informed consumer
 decision-making. 170. The DG in its Investigation Report has also compared WhatsApp's Policy updates for
 rest of the World and European Region and observed that the WhatsApp's privacy policy
 for its users living in the European Region, is more transparent and detailed on various
 aspects as compared to its policy for the users living outside the European Region
 (including Indian users). In this regard, the OPs have averred that the differences
 between the privacy policies of WhatsApp and WhatsApp Ireland (the entity that
 provides the WhatsApp Service in the European region) relate to issues relevant only to
 the European region inter alia including compliance with Europe's General Data
 Protection Regulation (GDPR). In this regard, the Commission is of the view that while
 the policies may differ across jurisdictions based on local laws, the aforesaid differences
 demonstrate the scope and feasibility for providing greater transparency and choice for
 users in India. 171. The Investigation Report has stated that cookies, location information does not seem to
 be essential to provide messaging apps service. In this regard, WhatsApp has asserted
 that: 172.1 data collected from businesses such as user's interaction with businesses is not
 required to provide messaging app services. In this regard, WhatsApp has submitted
 that

 WhatsApp clarifies that while using its business messaging features, the user is in
 control of what they choose to do and share. Messaging a business using the
 WhatsApp Service continues to remain optional (i.e., users can contact businesses
 using other means). 172.2 processing data from third party sources to the extent done by WhatsApp is not
 required for offering its messaging services. In this regard, WhatsApp has submitted
 that if a user uses WhatsApp's services with such third-party services, WhatsApp
 may receive information about the user from the third party. 173. In relation to sharing of information with other Meta companies, it is important to refer
 to the following extract from WhatsApp's 2021 Update: 174. IFF in its rejoinder has also referred to another page when a user clicks on "see here" in
 the above policy, user will be redirected to below information. What information does WhatsApp share with the Meta Companies? WhatsApp currently shares certain categories of information with its parent
 company, Meta, and the Meta Companies. If you use WhatsApp Messenger

 The information we share with the other Meta Companies includes your
 account registration information (such as your phone number), transaction
 data (for example, if you use Facebook Pay), service-related information,
 information on how you interact with businesses when using our Services,
 mobile device information, your IP address, and may include other
 information identified in the Privacy Policy section entitled 'Information We
 Collect' or obtained upon notice to you or based on your consent. If you use the WhatsApp Business app
 The information we share with the other Meta Companies includes your
 account registration information (such as your phone number and
 information from your business profile and product catalog), transaction data
 (for example, if you use Facebook Pay), service-related information,
 information on how you interact with customers when using our Services,
 mobile device information, your IP address, and may include other
 information identified in the WhatsApp Business Terms of Service section
 entitled 'Our Data Practices - Other Information' or obtained upon notice to
 you or based on your consent. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 102
 Public Version

 We limit the information we share with Meta in important ways. For example,
 we will always protect your personal conversations with end-to-end
 encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Meta can see these private
 messages. We don't keep logs of who everyone's messaging or calling and
 can't see your shared location so we cannot and do not share this with Meta.
 We need your contacts to provide the service, but don't share your contacts
 with Meta. You can learn more about some of these limitations here. 175. WhatsApp in its submission has also stated that since 2016, WhatsApp may share
 certain categories of information with other Meta Companies, for instance, to provide
 both safe and reliable services as well as optional business features. 23. The specific types of user data that WhatsApp may share with other Meta
 Companies are described publicly by WhatsApp in its Privacy Policy and in
 a publicly available FAQ linked within the Privacy Policy and may include: 24. The specific user data WhatsApp shares will depend on the development and
 availability of new products and features and how users decide to use them.
 Not all data described in the "Information We Collect" section of the Privacy
 Policy is currently being shared with the other Meta Companies. 25. As an example, WhatsApp shares certain data with Meta when Meta (or
 certain Meta Companies) acts as a service provider. WhatsApp works with
 these Meta Companies to support its services, such as by providing technical
 infrastructure, delivery and other systems; marketing WhatsApp's services,
 conducting surveys and research; protecting the safety, security, and integrity
 of users and others; and assisting with customer service. 27. To meet growing demand to enable businesses to build their businesses and
 reach their customers globally, there are plans to provide businesses with
 new features to engage with customers and support their economic growth,
 while taking consistent measures to reinforce the private nature of the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 103
 Public Version

 platform. These include features WhatsApp is developing to enable customer
 service, discover a business, and shop online. WhatsApp has described these
 features further in its FAQs. Many of these features rely on Meta services, so
 as WhatsApp develops and launches them, it may share information with
 Meta when a user chooses to engage with a business using one of those
 features. If a business were to choose to use Meta to store WhatsApp
 messages securely and to respond to customers, Meta will only use data at
 the instruction of the business and on the business' behalf. These business
 features are entirely optional, and users always have the option of deciding
 whether or not to communicate with businesses. WhatsApp will make it clear
 within the WhatsApp Service when a user is communicating with any business
 that uses a third-party (including Meta) to facilitate messaging with the user.
 WhatsApp's philosophy is that users should be in control when messaging a
 business. It is their choice whether or not to reach out or engage with a
 business, and WhatsApp will protect their private information. 28. WhatsApp limits the information it shares with other Meta Companies in
 important ways. WhatsApp does not share the following information with
 other Meta Companies: 176. WhatsApp has stated that data collected by it is shared with Meta companies i.e.,
 Facebook Ireland Ltd., Facebook Payments Inc, Facebook Payments International
 Limited, Facebook Technologies, LLC, Facebook Technologies Ireland Limited,
 WhatsApp, WhatsApp Ireland Limited, Novi Financials, Inc. and its affiliated, global
 Novi entities and Facebook Pagamentos do Brasil Ltds. 177. WhatsApp has also submitted that Meta shares information it collects, infrastructure,
 systems, and technology with other Meta Companies (including WhatsApp) to provide
 a seamless, consistent and richer, innovative experience across Meta's services
 (including the WhatsApp Service) to enable cross app interactions, sharing, viewing and
 engaging with content, including posts and videos. Meta also processes information that
 it receives about users from other Meta Companies, according to their terms and policies
 and as permitted by applicable law. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 104
 Public Version 178. Further, in this regard, it is also important to note WhatsApp business terms of service
 set out the terms of service between businesses and WhatsApp LLC. WhatsApp collects,
 stores and uses information from a) business account and registration, usage, b) log and
 functional information generated from use of business accounts, c) performance,
 diagnostics and analytics information, d) technical and support requests e) information
 about businesses from other sources like other WhatsApp users, businesses, third party
 companies, and the Meta companies. This information may be shared with Meta
 companies, and it will be used to develop, operate, provide, improve, understand,
 customize, support and market business services of WhatsApp, other services and
 services and products of Meta companies. 179. WhatsApp has averred that

 It has been further averred that if the
 user chooses to engage with these features, WhatsApp informs them about these features
 and the data that may be shared with Meta through transparency screens. 180. It has been averred that WhatsApp's data sharing practices are proportionate and not
 arbitrary as: (a) WhatsApp does not share all the data that it may collect; (b) limited data
 that is shared from WhatsApp to Meta is necessary to provide services in relation to
 safety, security and integrity, and (c)

 . 181. In relation to sharing of data within Meta Group, IFF has stated that based on the policy,
 there is no restriction of information that may be shared by WhatsApp with other Meta
 companies. WhatsApp may claim that only a limited set of data is shared which is

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 105
 Public Version

 essential, however, the policy puts no such restriction and contractually puts WhatsApp
 in a position to share unrestricted data with other Meta companies. IFF has further
 pointed out that it has been claimed by the OPs that WhatsApp does not share
 individuals' phone numbers with Meta. However, the FAQ screenshot extracted at para
 174 shows that phone numbers are shared with Meta. 182. In relation to sharing of information by WhatsApp with Meta, the observations of the
 Commission are as follows: SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 107
 Public Version

182.6 Privacy is increasingly recognized as a critical non-price parameter of competition,
 which is valued by users on par with other service attributes like quality, customer
 service, and innovation. In the context of digital services, where many offerings are
 provided at zero monetary cost, consumers tend to place substantial importance on
 non-price factors, such as the degree of privacy protection, data security, and
 transparency of data practices. In this regard, the DG has relied upon several cases
 and studies namely Facebook/ WhatsApp merger decision dated 03.10.2014 in Case
 No. COMP/M.7217 by European Commission, Microsoft/ LinkedIn merger
 decision dated 06.12.2016 by European Commission, Google/ DoubleClick merger
 assessment by US FTC, TomTom/Tele Atlas and Apple/ Shazam merger by
 European Commission, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's
 'Digital Platforms Inquiry' of June 2019 and Facebook decision by German Federal
 Cartel Office (FCO) i.e., Bundeskartellamt to conclude that there is a consensus
 behind the idea that 'competition on privacy' can constitute an element of
 competition. Relevant extracts from these decisions and reports are not being
 reproduced here for brevity. 182.7 Increased data collection or broader data sharing can thus be considered a reduction
 in the overall quality of service. When a dominant firm like WhatsApp reduces its
 data protections, it effectively diminishes the quality of its service, impacting
 consumer welfare and violating competitive principles under antitrust law. 182.8 Moreover, the impact of reduced data protection extends beyond just consumer
 exploitation. When a dominant firm lowers data protection standards, it not only
 weakens the consumer's position but also has significant exclusionary effects on
 competition. Consequently, lower data protection standards not only harm
 consumers by reducing the quality of services but also create insurmountable entry
 barriers for potential competitors, entrenching the dominant position of established
 firms and distorting competition across various markets. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 108
 Public Version

182.9 Users typically do not anticipate or desire that their personal data will be shared
 with third parties beyond what is necessary for the functioning or enhancement of
 a service. Most users expect that data collected by a platform like WhatsApp will
 be used solely for the purpose of providing or improving the messaging service
 itself. However, the language used in the 2021 privacy policy implies a much
 broader scope for data sharing. It indicates that user data may also be utilized to
 "help operate, provide, improve, understand, customize, support, and market our
 Services and their offerings, including the Meta Company Products", "improving
 their services and your experiences using them, such as making suggestions for you
 (for example, of friends or group connections, or of interesting content),
 personalizing features and content, helping you complete purchases and
 transactions, and showing relevant offers and ads across the Meta Company
 Products", "providing integrations which enable you to connect your WhatsApp
 experiences with other Meta Company Products", etc.

182.10 This implies that user data, instead of being restricted to WhatsApp's internal
 functions, may be shared across Meta's ecosystem to promote & improve other
 Meta products, recommend content, or tailor advertising, enhance integration
 across Meta products, etc. Such practices contradict users' reasonable expectations
 regarding data usage, as they extend beyond the limited context of service
 provision. Consequently, the data sharing scheme raises concerns about whether
 users are fully informed about how their personal information is being utilized
 across multiple platforms within the Meta network. 182.11 The sharing of information between WhatsApp and Meta as mandated by the 2021
 privacy policy update can be considered an imposition on users due to the absence
 of choice and the exploitation of WhatsApp's dominant position in the messaging
 market. The policy compels users to either accept broad and ambiguous data-
 sharing terms or risk losing access to essential features and functionalities of the
 platform (at least till 07.05.2021). This coercive approach leverages WhatsApp's
 dominance to impose data-sharing conditions that primarily benefit Meta's business
 interests. Such conduct demonstrates the imbalance of power, where users are

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 109
 Public Version

 deprived of meaningful autonomy over their data and are pressured into accepting
 terms they cannot practically negotiate or refuse. The data-sharing arrangement
 without user choice is also fundamentally unfair as it degrades the quality of service
 by diminishing privacy standards, which are an essential non-price parameter of
 competition. This combination of coercive imposition and unfair reduction in
 service quality underscores the exploitative nature of WhatsApp's conduct, which
 harms both consumer welfare and market competition. 183. To conclude, the Commission is of the view that the 2021 policy update by WhatsApp
 on a 'take-it-or-leave-it' basis constitutes an imposition of unfair condition under the
 Act, as it compels all users to accept expanded data collection terms and sharing of data
 within Meta Group without any opt out. Given the network effects and lack of effective
 alternatives, the 2021 Update forces users to comply, undermining their autonomy, and
 constitutes an abuse of Meta's dominant position. Accordingly, the Commission finds
 that Meta (through WhatsApp) has contravened Section 4(2)(a)(i) of the Act. C. Denial of Market Access and Leveraging by Meta 184. The Commission in its PF Order noted that the ability to collect and utilize large volumes
 of personal data from different sources allows Meta to gain a competitive edge that other
 players cannot easily replicate. This leveraging of WhatsApp's dominance to strengthen
 Meta's position in other markets, such as display advertising, results in exclusionary
 effects, making it difficult for new entrants and smaller players to compete effectively.
 Such conduct, which involves integration and cross-sharing of data within the Meta
 ecosystem, could potentially foreclose competition, restrict innovation, and harm
 consumer welfare by reducing privacy protections and limiting choices. As a result, the
 Commission determined that WhatsApp's and Meta's practices warrant a detailed
 investigation to ascertain the extent of the anti-competitive effects. 185. The DG has examined two allegations related to denial of market access and leveraging
 by Meta, together. Based on its investigation, the DG has concluded that collection of
 huge user data and data sharing between Meta companies act as an entry barrier to the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 110
 Public Version

 new entrant resulting in denial of market access in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act; and the conduct of leveraging its dominant position in the
 market for OTT messaging app through smartphone in India by Meta (through
 WhatsApp) to protect its market share in the online display advertising market
 tantamount to violating the provisions of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. 186. The OPs on the other hand have contested these findings of the DG. The Commission
 has perused the evidence collated by the DG, averments made by the OPs and other
 information available on record. Third Party Submissions 187. As already stated, data gives a strong competitive advantage in the online display
 advertisement market. During the course of investigation, the DG has collected
 information from various third parties in the matter in this regard. For the purpose of
 examining the conduct of the OPs, it is important to note these submissions. 188. The relevant submissions of Snap are summarised below: 189. Affle has stated that data led targeting makes advertising more relevant for users, and if
 advertising is more relevant for the user, there is a higher chance of it being more
 effective. It also helps maximise user experience as users don't get shown ads which are
 of no interest or value to them while they surf free apps/sites. With relevant advertising,
 the open internet economy is kept alive and thriving as users get free or subsidized
 access to content/apps which make money through ads. Regarding the 2021 policy
 update of WhatsApp, Affle has submitted that this would help Facebook target
 advertising better with the additional data they could now use from users' engagement
 with WhatsApp. This should thus help Facebook to grow its advertising business.
 However, as the Indian market itself is very fast growing we expect this growth for them
 to not necessarily come at the cost of other Indian and International players. 190. Ally Digital has submitted that online platforms provide data points such as date, time
 and target audience etc. that helps optimizing the campaign. It has also been submitted
 that data sharing between WhatsApp and Facebook would increase advertising revenue
 of Facebook multi-fold as with better targeting options, the brands would spend more
 on Facebook ads. It is further submitted that better targeting leads to better sales and
 that would definitely make brands spend more money on display awareness ads by
 Facebook. 191. Collectcent has submitted that all businesses rely on end-users to get the revenue
 generated by advertising, in-app purchases, online sales, on-ground services. As per
 Collectcent, to show ads to the right audience at the right time for the client is key to

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 116
 Public Version

 achieving the business goals of clients. This can only be achieved with user data like
 gender, income group, location. Regarding the WhatsApp-Facebook alliance after the
 2021 policy update, Collectcent stated that it will definitely impact the rest of the
 advertising companies' revenues (Indian or international) big time directly. 192. Google has submitted that it primarily uses data provided to it by users of its services or
 collected with users' consent to provide, maintain and improve the services it offers to
 users. As per Google it also uses data to serve users with personalised and non-
 personalised ads that support Google's provision of a wide range of free services.
 Further, user data inter alia helps Google to train advertisement quality models used in
 ranking ads, As per Google
 its advertisement quality models are based only on relatively recent data and many
 factors other than user data, It has been further submitted that
 the key to success in the online advertising sector continues to be innovative consumer
 services, rather than just user data. 193. The relevant submissions of Inuxu are summarised below: SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 117
 Public Version

193.3 Google & Facebook due to their reach, popularity & product spread (own or
 acquired) have access to tremendous amount of user data and hence enjoy
 significant portion of market share of online display advertising market in India. All
 the user data is behind closed walls of Google & Facebook like companies which
 have acquired this user data through their various offerings (not initially intended
 towards advertising) over a period of time. This makes business like Inuxu suffocate
 on user data. 193.4 WhatsApp is being used widely in India now and WhatsApp groups have allowed
 like-minded or related folks to come together. Hence it has great capability to make
 information viral in a short time. Also, WhatsApp has lot of personal information
 sharing in terms of location, phone number etc. Having WhatsApp's data available
 to Facebook can help Facebook cross-leverage the user behavior and demographic
 data to make its display advertising more relevant and targeted to user's interest.
 Also, with WhatsApp business now being used by many startups or small / mid-
 scale businesses, Facebook can leverage its technology along with WhatsApp's user
 base & data to boost its advertising revenue. Enabling data sharing between
 Facebook and WhatsApp will give advantage to Facebook for its Ads business.
 Facebook will further strengthen its market share in digital advertising business
 making it difficult for businesses like us to increase its market share. 193.5 Aggregation of WhatsApp's data with Facebook (as both have user's personal &
 demographic details) would surely help in more targeted and better user relevant
 ads and help Facebook boost its display advertising offering. As per Inuxu,
 Facebook with this cross-leverage of WhatsApp's data would become undisputed
 leader in knowing and understanding (with use of analytics) user's conversational
 data that is the core of any digital advertising targeting. Companies that thrive on
 services of Facebooks Ads would benefit greatly while AdTech companies that are
 not part of Facebook and WhatsApp ecosystem will face tougher competition. 193.6 Facebook's access to WhatsApp data has strengthened Facebook's targeting
 capabilities for ads. While this has not impacted directly our profitability, it has an

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 118
 Public Version

 indirect impact on our demand & cost as more advertisers move to Facebook due
 to its audience targeting capability (which is enhanced due to this data) and it may
 need us to integrate with third party DMPs (Data Management Platforms) to have
 competitive targeting capability which will result in more cost to us. 193.7 It may not be very accurate to say that sharing between WhatsApp and Facebook
 has created barrier to us, but it has given a competitive advantage to Facebook in
 our view due to more access to data which will further strengthen Facebook's
 audience targeting - which is one of the key driving factors for display advertising. 194. The relevant submissions of InMobi are summarised below: The access to data will improve Facebook's ability to target users better and hence
 may potentially affect the cost of impressions/profitability for InMobi. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 119
 Public Version 195. OpenX Technologies Inc. has submitted that due to WhatsApp-Facebook alliance,
 Facebook may leverage its position in the display advertising market further by building
 even more detailed audiences. 196. The relevant submissions of Magnite Inc. (Magnite) are summarised below: 197. The relevant submissions of Smile Internet Technologies (P) Ltd (Tyroo), a display
 advertising network, are summarised below: 198.1 2021 policy update of WhatsApp enables both WhatsApp and Facebook to target
 wider range of audiences as well as parameters like location, behaviour,
 demographics are competitive advantage. It has been further submitted that the
 2021 update will enable both WhatsApp and Facebook to capture better market
 share by offering accurate target audiences. 198.2 Tying-in acceptance of WhatsApp 2021 policy update with Facebook will
 substantially increase spends of clients on Facebook platform, thus minimizing the
 importance of other publishers and websites. 198.3 Facebook and WhatsApp have competitive advantage as they have consumer's
 behavioural data, which helps them to target specific users resulting in low-cost
 advertisement. Currently, there is no direct impact but there is a possibility in future
 to impact SVG Media's profitability & performance in business. 199. Twitter is an online micro-blogging platform offering online advertisement space on its
 website that an advertiser can pay to utilise. Regarding the role of data for online display
 advertising, Twitter vide its reply dated 02.08.2021 has submitted that

 Regarding the WhatsApp-Facebook alliance after 2021
 policy update, Twitter stated that 200. Xandr Inc. is a digital advertising technology and analytics company and is stated to be
 part of the AT&T group. Xandr has submitted that data is required at several levels of
 the advertising technology stack and for a variety of reasons, in order for digital
 advertising to operate effectively. Particularly for advertiser customers, access to end-
 user data and accurate targeting is one of the most important criteria in selecting a
 provider. One of the key underlying tenets of the programmatic advertising industry is
 the ability to target users as granularly as possible. Granular user data is particularly

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 122
 Public Version

 valuable to advertisers when combined with inventory that has a high reach among
 different audience types, as this allows for relatively large numbers of very specific
 audiences to be targeted. 201. The relevant submissions of Xapads are summarised below: SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 123
 Public Version 202. Taboola has submitted that data gives online platforms a competitive advantage in the
 provision of digital advertising. Online platforms provide targeting capabilities which
 allow advertisers to retarget their current customers and also to target potential new
 customers. For these purposes, detailed data on consumer demographics, interests,
 preferences and behaviour is most valuable in terms of profiling consumers, predicting
 consumers' potential response to advertising and tailoring advertising messages. Online
 platforms also provide verification and attribution services to advertisers. For this
 purpose, online platforms' ability to collect data, beyond their own consumer-facing
 services, from third-party sites and mobile applications, and to combine it with analytics
 data to present a unified view of campaign performance to advertisers is very important
 to demonstrate their effectiveness in digital advertising. 203. The relevant submissions of LinkedIn are summarised below: targeting tools, an advertiser can identify and show ads to a potential business
 customer anywhere on the web, and this form of targeting is increasing in accuracy
 day-by-day. It is also stated that the continuing sophistication and growth of ad-
 targeting tools allow certain digital advertising providers (such as Google and
 Facebook) to monitor effectiveness and ROI of a given digital advertising across
 the web regardless of the websites. Further, unlike Google and Facebook, LinkedIn
 and other platforms have limited access to advertising data outside the logged-in
 environment, which constrains effective attribution/ROI analysis and limits
 advertising campaign optimization. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 124
 Public Version 204. Amazon Seller Services Pvt. Ltd. has submitted that: 205.1 Larger, multi-property digital advertising platforms like Facebook and Google
 enjoy economies of scale that allow them to have access to larger volumes of data
 and platforms that are used on a more frequent basis than others. This may enable
 them to better understand their user base and develop and measure more targeted
 advertising to advertisers. 205.2 This scale is self-reinforcing, making them a 'must-have' for advertisers. As per
 Pinterest, these dynamics lead to certain platforms collecting an increasingly greater
 share of data, and by extension strengthening their position in the digital advertising
 market. 205.3 Regarding the 2021 policy update of WhatsApp, Pinterest stated that to the extent
 that WhatsApp shares data with Facebook, it would be to Facebook's competitive
 advantage in the digital advertising market. Further, as Facebook collects an
 increasingly greater share of data, it strengthens its position in the digital advertising
 market, which allows it to further grow its data set. 205.4 There are significant barriers to entry in the market for providing online display
 advertising at scale. New entrants into this market face a very significant challenge
 in generating a sufficiently large user base, and similarly significant challenges in

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 125
 Public Version

 obtaining the data necessary to target advertising and measure its impact. New
 entrants and small to medium-sized platforms have a greater challenge in providing
 advertisers with a compelling, measurement-based reason to shift their budgets.
 Regulation can also serve as a barrier to entry. 205.5 Facebook has significantly greater capacity to collect first-party data about its users
 within its family of platforms and services. Its other properties, Instagram and
 WhatsApp, each have well over a billion users themselves. Facebook is able to
 collect a wide array of data about its users, both through first-party data collection
 through its family of apps' many features (content, chats, events, photos,
 marketplace purchasing, etc.), as well as third-party collection of purchase and
 website / app activity, for example through its conversion pixels, 'like' buttons, and
 Facebook login functionality. 205.6 Facebook's superior access to data enables it to better understand its user base and
 develop and measure more targeted advertising to advertisers, which can improve
 the engagement of their audience (the time they spend using the service) and can
 improve the targeting of ads which improves those ads' performance (the users'
 engagement with those ads). Third-party purchase and site visitation data also
 allows Facebook to offer advertisers clear measurement of advertisement
 performance, which contributes to advertisers' perception that Facebook-served ads
 are superior to competitors' offerings. 206. In relation to importance of data sharing between various services of Meta, the
 Commission notes the following extract from the FORM 10-Q filed by Facebook for
 the quarterly period ended 31.03.2021 before Securities and Exchange Commission,
 United States. In this extract, Facebook admitted that data sharing between WhatsApp
 and Facebook helps Facebook to provide services and targeting ads: (Emphasis supplied) 207. The primary objectives of advertisements are to build awareness, drive consideration,
 generate intent, and ultimately achieve conversion, where the consumer takes a desired
 action, such as purchasing a product or downloading an application. Effective data
 collection significantly enhances the ability to meet these objectives. Platforms like
 Facebook and WhatsApp gather extensive user data such as age, gender, location,
 income profile, and behavioural patterns which enables advertisers to create detailed
 profiles of potential customers. This allows them to deliver targeted advertisements that
 align with users' preferences and interests. Such precision targeting is highly valued by
 advertisers, as it not only reduces excessive advertising spending but also increases the
 likelihood of successful conversions, thereby optimizing business outcomes. By
 leveraging data collected from various sources, Meta enables advertisers to reach
 specific consumer segments more efficiently, resulting in more personalized ads and
 better engagement, ultimately improving the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. 208. In relation to business services, the Commission based on submissions made by the OPs
 as well as investigation by the DG notes that businesses who use the WhatsApp Business
 App are not required to have a WhatsApp Business Account WABA or a Facebook
 account. This requirement is there only if the business opts to use the WhatsApp
 Business API. Further, the WABA is accessed through the WhatsApp Business Manager
 which is housed within the Meta Business Suite or Meta Business Manager. Business
 Manager requires a Facebook account to use. WhatsApp

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 127
 Public Version

 Business Manager relies on the Meta Business Manager to work, and hence requires a
 Facebook account. Thus, they are required to accept the Meta terms of Service as well
 as privacy Policy of Facebook at the time of creation of profile. Thus, by accepting
 Facebook's Terms of Service and privacy policy, users / businesses agree to share data
 with Meta. 209. WhatsApp has submitted that while users of WhatsApp Business App are contractually
 obliged to abide by the WhatsApp Business Terms of Service (and the policies, terms
 and guidelines incorporated by reference within), the users of the WhatsApp Business
 API are contractually obligated to abide by the Facebook Terms for WhatsApp Business
 (and the policies, terms and guidelines incorporated by reference within). In this regard,
 it is noted from such WhatsApp Business Terms of Service that,

 "...You understand and agree that WhatsApp collects, stores, and uses: (a)
 information from your business account and registration; (b) usage, log, and
 functional information generated from your use of our Business Services; (c)
 performance, diagnostics, and analytics information; (d) information related to
 your technical or other support requests; and (e) information about you from other
 sources such as other WhatsApp users, businesses, third-party companies, and the
 other Facebook Companies. We may share this information with the Facebook
 Companies, and we and the Facebook Companies will use all the information we
 have to develop, operate, provide, improve, understand, customize, support, and
 market our Business Services, our other services, and the services and products
 of the Facebook Companies. It is not possible to opt-out of these data practices." (Emphasis added) 210. Meta has also submitted that WhatsApp Business API requires the business to provide
 certain crucial identifiers, such as: (a) business profile; (b) display name; (c) category;
 and (d) business phone number and certain other optional identifiers, such as: (i) email
 address; (ii) business description; (iii) address; and (iv) websites. 211. It is further noted that to use Cloud API, the Business gives Meta access to its
 communications to send, store, read, manage, or otherwise process them for the
 business' own use, as it uses Meta servers and is supported by Meta data centers and

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 128
 Public Version

 localized storage options. When a business or business service provider chooses to use
 Meta to securely host the WhatsApp Business API, Meta acts as a service provider to
 such business and acts as directed by the business. A business might designate a number
 of employees, or even other vendors, to store, process and respond to customer
 communications. A business's third-party service provider could also include Facebook.
 When a business chooses Facebook as its third-party service provider, Facebook cannot - on its own initiative - use the customer communications to show the ads that the user
 may see. The business will however be able to use the content of message threads they
 receive for their own marketing purposes, which may include advertising on Facebook. 212. The DG has also noted that 213. The Commission also notes 214. Meta has also averred that

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 129
 Public Version

 In this
 regard, as already stated, the operational text of the 2021 Update allows WhatsApp to
 share data with Meta for purposes such as marketing its own services and promoting
 offerings across Meta company products. This includes enhancing Meta's services and
 improving user experiences by making suggestions (e.g., recommending friends or
 group connections, or highlighting interesting content), personalizing features and
 content, assisting with completing purchases and transactions, and displaying relevant
 offers and advertisements across Meta's platforms. There is no such restriction in the
 Policy and the current limited sharing, assuming to be true, gives unilateral ability to
 WhatsApp to expand scope of data sharing. 215. Meta also contends that these are optional features and users/businesses are not required
 or incentivised to opt for the same. In this regard, the Commission notes that the issue
 being examined is in relation to aggregation of user data with Meta and the resulting
 competitive edge for Meta's advertising business. Therefore, whether the features are
 optional, or mandatory is not material for the issue under determination. Presence of Meta in the Display Advertisement Market 216. The number of Impressions sold has been stated by the DG as an important criterion to
 assess the position of players in the market. Meta is present in the market for display
 advertisement through Instagram and Facebook. The number of impressions provided
 reflects the number of times an advertisement has been served to a user. Based on data
 collected by the DG, a comparative analysis of the impressions sold by Meta and its
 other competitors is as follows: 217. From a review of the total number of advertisement impressions sold by Meta in India,
 it is noted that Meta holds a leading position compared to its competitors. The table
 above demonstrates a significant increase in advertisement impressions for Meta, which
 far surpasses that of any other player. Meta has more than of impressions sold by
 all the players mentioned in the table. While Amazon emerges as Meta's closest
 competitor, its share of impressions is too small to be considered a serious rival. Other
 players in the market for display advertisements in India also hold only a minor share in
 terms of the number of impressions sold, highlighting Meta's un-assailable position in
 this segment. 218. Meta asserts that impressions are an inappropriate metric to assess advertising shares of
 supply or to assess the market position of Meta. Further, the number of impressions sold
 by players like ASSPL, Snap, X, Tyroo and Affle have increased consistently for the
 period between FY 2017 to 2020. However, it is noted that the advertisements
 impressions of these rivals are not only non-comparable to Meta but highly insignificant.
 The Commission also notes that advertisements impressions sold serve as an appropriate
 metric to assess the market power of players in the online advertising space, as they
 reflect the reach and visibility a platform offers to advertisers. A higher number of
 advertisements impressions indicate the platform's ability to capture more user attention
 and deliver advertisements effectively, thereby demonstrating its influence and
 competitive strength in the market. Thus, the contentions of Meta are unfounded. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 131
 Public Version 219. The DG has further noted that some of the players have not provided data related to
 impressions and therefore, in order to assess the market position of these players, data
 related to advertisement revenue has been considered. The advertisement revenue of
 Meta and its competitors is highlighted as follows: # Revenue figures for 2016 denotes advertising revenue for financial year 2016-17,
 2017 denotes 2017-18, and so on. ** Data for the financial year 2021-2022 220. It is evident that Meta's advertising revenue is significantly higher than that of its
 competitors and has consistently increased over the years. Google, the second-largest
 player in the display advertising market, generates substantially lower revenue than
 Meta. Amazon ranks third, followed by LinkedIn, InMobi, Twitter, and Affle. All other
 players have a minimal presence in comparison to Meta, highlighting its significant

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 132
 Public Version

 position in the market3. It is further noted that advertisement revenue of Meta increased
 nearly over 2015 to 2021 (i.e., from USD to USD
 ). None of the rivals have been able to match this growth in advertisement
 revenue of Meta. 221. It has been argued by Meta that players with innovative products can enter the market
 and challenge the position of Meta. However, it is noted from the data related to
 impressions served and advertising revenue that rivals of Meta are relatively
 insignificant and not able to constrain Meta effectively. 222. A cumulative assessment of the available data on advertisement impressions and
 advertisement revenue clearly demonstrates that Meta is significantly ahead of its
 competitors in both categories. These comprehensive figures indicate that Meta not only
 generates far higher advertisement revenue compared to its competitors but also serves
 an overwhelming number of advertisement impressions in the Indian display
 advertisement market. Even the closest competitors, such as Google and Amazon, have
 a considerably lower share of both advertisement impressions served, and revenue
 generated. Smaller players, such as LinkedIn, InMobi, Affle, and Twitter, hold an even
 more negligible share, making it clear that Meta's scale and reach are unmatched in this
 segment. The stark disparity in both revenue and advertisements impressions served
 highlights Meta's superior ability to attract advertisers, optimize advertisement
 placements, and leverage its extensive user data, which collectively reinforces its
 competitive advantage in the display advertising market. 223. Based on the information available on record, the Commission notes that,

 223.1 Data is the cornerstone of effective online display advertising, as it enables
 advertisers to precisely target specific audience segments, ensuring that their 3 It is also noted that Pinterest do not display advertising on the platform in the country and accordingly
 generate no revenue in India. SVG Media has submitted that the company is under closure phase and
 hence it is not able to submit data regarding number of impressions sold. Taboola has submitted that it is
 not in the business of providing online display advertisement. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 133
 Public Version

 marketing spend is directed towards users with the highest likelihood of conversion.
 Every advertiser aims to maximize the return on investment (ROI) within their
 advertising budgets, which requires reaching audiences that have a strong
 propensity to take the desired actions, such as purchasing a product or engaging
 with content. Without access to detailed user data, this level of precise targeting
 becomes impossible. The ability to analyse parameters such as user behaviour,
 preferences, and demographics ensures that advertising spend is optimized,
 avoiding wasted resources on uninterested audiences. The aggregation and
 utilization of data are therefore essential for delivering effective advertising
 campaigns and achieving optimal business outcomes. 223.2 The responses of third-party advertisers indicate that WhatsApp's 2021 Privacy
 Policy update will provide Meta with a significant competitive advantage over its
 rivals. WhatsApp claims that 2016 Policy itself enables sharing of data between
 WhatsApp and Meta. In this regard, the Commission is of the view that removal of
 opt out from the 2021 Update coupled with expanded scope of data collection
 furthers the ability of Meta to benefit from a wider reach and a deeper understanding
 of user behaviour. This cross-platform integration of data not only strengthens
 Meta's ability to offer more personalized and targeted advertisements but also
 positions Meta as a more attractive partner for advertisers. By leveraging the user
 data from WhatsApp, Meta can enhance its targeting capabilities and make more
 informed decisions about advertising placements, which competitors without
 access to such comprehensive data pools cannot match. 223.3 Entering the online display advertising market requires substantial investment in
 technology and user acquisition. A new entrant must develop a product that is
 engaging enough to capture users' attention and encourage them to spend
 significant time on the platform. Given Meta's existing dominance and access to
 vast user data, it becomes exceedingly difficult for new players to replicate a similar
 level of engagement and data-driven insights. The need to build a robust platform
 and collect relevant data to compete with Meta creates a prohibitive barrier for new
 entrants, making it challenging for them to gain a foothold in the market. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 134
 Public Version

223.4 Meta's unique ability to precisely target audiences and optimize advertising
 campaigns gives it a significant edge in the advertising market. With access to
 detailed user profiles and data from multiple platforms, Meta can promise
 advertisers the best returns in terms of clicks, engagement, and conversions per
 dollar spent. This advantage makes Meta the preferred advertising partner for
 sellers, thereby reinforcing its status as the dominant player in the display
 advertising market. This is also evidenced from the advertisement revenue data in
 the display advertisement market as mentioned above wherein none of the rivals is
 near the position enjoyed by Meta. Even the closest competitors remain
 significantly behind Meta's market presence. The integration of WhatsApp's data
 further augments Meta's capabilities, allowing it to provide more value to
 advertisers and solidifying its position as the market leader. 223.5 With the increasing adoption of WhatsApp Business by small and mid-sized
 businesses, Meta is able to capitalize on this user base and the associated business
 interactions. By integrating WhatsApp's user data with its advanced advertising
 technology, Meta can build even more detailed audience profiles, enhancing its
 ability to deliver highly targeted ads. This capability not only strengthens Meta's
 advertising revenue potential but also enables it to offer tailored solutions for
 businesses of all sizes, making it a versatile and dominant player in the advertising
 ecosystem. 223.6 The integration of WhatsApp's data into Meta's advertising ecosystem contributes
 to a positive feedback loop, further entrenching Meta's dominant position in both
 social networking and private messaging markets. The extensive user data allows
 Meta to offer superior advertising solutions, which attract more advertisers and
 drive more revenue. This, in turn, enables Meta to invest further in improving its
 platforms and expanding its data capabilities, creating a self-reinforcing cycle that
 consolidates its market power. Such dynamics make it extremely difficult for
 competitors to challenge Meta's dominance, effectively leading to a near
 monopolistic position in these markets. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 135
 Public Version

223.7 2021 policy update enables Meta to target a broader range of audiences and gain
 expanded access to user parameters which in-turn allows Meta to provide more
 precise and accurate targeting to advertisers, giving it a distinct competitive
 advantage in the market. The ability to offer better-defined target audiences enables
 Meta to capture a larger market share and attract more advertisers seeking to
 optimize their advertising spend. UK CMA's Online Platforms and Digital
 Advertising Report, as mentioned earlier, also noted that Meta (earlier Facebook)
 enjoy significant competitive advantages in both targeting advertising and
 measuring its effectiveness because of their extensive access to user data. 223.8 Meta has submitted number of advertisers which purchased ads from Meta in India
 for the period 2015 to 2022 which is mentioned below: evidence the attractiveness of Meta ecosystem for the advertisers. Importantly, the
 number of advertisers got almost doubled from in 2016 to in
 2017 (after the implementation of 2016 privacy policy which as admitted by
 WhatsApp enabled it to share data with Meta). The increase in number of
 advertisers also indicates strong indirect network effects with increasing number of
 users on the WhatsApp platform. 223.10 Advertisers favour publishers that offer effective targeted advertising capabilities. They prefer platforms that can display ads to users who are most likely to be
 interested and willing to engage with the content. The effectiveness of targeted

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 136
 Public Version

 advertising depends on the scope, size, and diversity of the data set held by the
 media provider. Meta gains an advantage by collecting extensive first-party data
 directly from its users which is shared across services, as well as additional third-
 party data through various tools, giving it a comprehensive data set. This vast data
 pool is a key factor behind Meta's un-assailable position in the online display
 advertising market and acts as a barrier to entry for new competitors, as they are
 unable to match the scale of data Meta possesses. 224. The averments made by Meta and examination of the same by the Commission are as
 follows: UK CMA Report referred to in this order also corroborates the same. The
 Commission also notes that Google and Meta operate in different online
 advertisement segments i.e., while Meta operates in online display advertisement,
 Google, though present in display advertisement, is primarily active in online search
 advertisement. 224.4 The Commission further notes that Meta's competitive advantage lies in its ability
 to collect and aggregate data from multiple sources, including first party apps viz.
 Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook Messenger, and external third parties,
 and then link this data to user profiles. This process enables Meta to collect data at
 a pace and scale unmatched by many other competitors. For example, the ratio of
 daily active users (DAU) to monthly active users (MAU) for WhatsApp shows a
 higher rate of user engagement (at %) vis-à-vis its rivals, implying that WhatsApp
 is acquiring new user data at a faster rate compared to other platforms. As a result,
 the volume of data collected by Meta is continually growing, and when combined
 with its ability to capture diverse user interactions across various applications, Meta
 can create comprehensive and nuanced user profiles. 224.5 In contrast, while third-party data providers offer businesses the opportunity to
 purchase large volumes of data without incurring the fixed costs of collecting it
 independently, third-party data comes with significant limitations. Businesses must
 repurchase data periodically, leading to variable costs. Moreover, third-party data
 often lacks the depth and scope of first-party data collected directly by platforms
 like Meta. For instance, data collected via cookies and pixels can reveal browsing
 patterns but cannot capture the socio-demographic details or specific user interests
 that Meta's first-party data provides. Additionally, Meta operates a closed
 ecosystem, or "walled garden," where it retains full control over its vast data
 repository, allowing it to offer unique insights to advertisers and measures the
 performance of advertising campaigns using exclusive metrics and tools. This level
 of control and completeness of data provides Meta with a significant competitive

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 138
 Public Version

 advantage in the digital advertising market, making it an indispensable partner for
 advertisers seeking detailed analytics and targeted advertising. 224.6 Given the extensive scale and scope of Meta's data collection, it is not feasible to
 agree with Meta's assertion that data does not present a barrier to entry in the online
 display advertising market. Competitors cannot easily replicate Meta's
 comprehensive data set, and third-party data, while useful, does not provide the
 same strategic value. Meta's ability to leverage its vast and unique data set
 effectively blocks new entrants from competing on equal footing, solidifying its
 dominance and creating high entry barriers in the market. 224.7 As per Meta, relevant market for online display advertising in India is characterised
 by high levels of competition and fragmentation with large number of players, as
 well as sustained growth. The Commission is of the view that there are various
 players in the relevant market, but the market remains concentrated with Meta as
 evidenced with number of impressions sold as well as advertisement revenue of
 Meta. Therefore, the contention of Meta that market is competitive with large
 number of players does not allay the competition concerns. Further, the growth in
 the overall market requires ensuring fair opportunities for all players as also large
 players do not engage in any conduct which denies equal opportunity in the market. 224.8 Meta has also relied on submissions of Google and Amazon to claim that there are
 no entry barriers. In this regard, the assessment of the Commission is based on
 comprehensive examination of submissions of all parties coupled with data and
 market structure. 225. Meta has also asserted that the Investigation Report does not factor in the benefits to
 consumers and advertisers, and pro-competitive benefits in its analysis. Meta has
 submitted that improvement in its' advertising products and services are likely to be
 advantageous to advertisers as well as users are shown relevant and quality ads, which
 in turn enhances the user experience. It has been further submitted that rivals would
 react to any improvements in Meta's service by competing more fiercely and improving

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 139
 Public Version

 their own offers, rather than by competing less or discontinuing their services. In this
 regard, the Commission is of the view that such economic justification has very high
 threshold to be accepted under the Act and the onus for the same lies on the entity under
 investigation. In the present case, it has not been met. As already examined in detail
 above, the conduct of Meta provides significant competitive edge over its rivals in the
 display advertisement market thereby resulting in competition concerns. 226. One of the fundamental characteristics of data in digital markets is that the more data a
 firm possesses, the greater its ability to extract insights and predict user behaviour.
 Meta's integration of data across Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp allows it to refine
 its algorithms and make increasingly accurate predictions about user preferences and
 behaviours. Meta's access to vast amounts of user data, particularly from WhatsApp's
 user base of in India, enables it to optimize algorithms and improve
 the effectiveness of its display advertisements. This creates an entry barrier that is
 difficult for new competitors to overcome. Without comparable access to such data,
 rivals cannot offer similar levels of precision in targeted advertising, personalization, or
 consumer insights, which are now crucial for attracting advertisers. Competitors in the
 display advertisement market, such as smaller social networks or digital advertising
 platforms, find it harder to compete for advertiser revenue (as corroborated by third
 party responses), as they would be unable to offer the same level of personalization and
 effectiveness in targeted advertising. As a result, other competitors particularly smaller
 companies or start-ups may struggle to gain a foothold in the display advertising market,
 resulting in a denial of access to market opportunities. This reflects how a dominant
 platform, like Meta, can raise entry barriers and strengthen its market power by relying
 on its access to more comprehensive datasets from one of its services to enhance others. 227. For example, the sharing of even general location data from WhatsApp with Meta
 services enables hyperlocal targeted advertising, giving Meta an unparalleled advantage
 over rivals. When a WhatsApp user visits a particular area, Meta can serve them targeted
 ads for nearby businesses through Facebook or Instagram, which smaller competitors
 would find hard to match. Meta's control over both the platform and user data allows it

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 140
 Public Version

 to adapt and enhance its advertising offerings continuously. This competitive advantage,
 enabled by combining user data from multiple services, reinforces Meta's stronghold on
 the display advertisement market. Such access to vast user data allows Meta to tailor
 advertisements and user experiences in ways competitors cannot. 228. As Meta continues to amass more data, its targeting becomes more precise. This creates
 a "lock-in" effect, where users and advertisers are both drawn deeper into Meta's
 ecosystem, further denying rivals access to the market. Meta's broad ecosystem across
 social media, messaging, and digital advertising, combined with its vast user base, gives
 it a significant competitive advantage. Its rivals neither have the same breadth of
 services nor the same level of user engagement. This enables Meta to drive users across
 its services in a manner that other platforms cannot, further entrenching its dominance.
 By leveraging its ecosystem, Meta can comprehensively gather and utilize user data to
 dominate the digital advertising space, while its competitors lack the same scale and
 depth of data. 229. This practice increases the "switching costs" for advertisers, who would have no
 incentive to move to rival platforms due to the superior targeted advertising offered by
 Meta. Such control over data, especially through integrations across Meta services, thus
 denies market access to both new entrants and existing competitors in the display
 advertising space. Moreover, personalizing services based on user data reinforces the
 lock-in effect by guiding users toward recommendations within Meta's own ecosystem,
 thus reducing the chances of users engaging with competing platforms. This, in turn,
 increases the likelihood that advertisers will continue to invest in Meta's services,
 further denying access to rivals in the display advertising market. 230. Meta's strategy can also be viewed through the lens of an envelopment strategy, where
 user data is bundled across services via privacy policies that allow data sharing across
 markets. By acquiring user data from WhatsApp and combining it with data from
 Facebook and Instagram, Meta strengthens its position in the display advertising market.
 This integration gives Meta a dominant data advantage, allowing it to monetize user

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 141
 Public Version

 data across its ecosystem in ways that competitors cannot replicate. This bundling
 strategy, facilitated by privacy policies, results in coercive effects on users who must
 accept cross-platform data sharing, and on advertisers who are forced to stay within
 Meta's ecosystem for effective targeted advertising. 231. Dominant platforms must exercise caution when integrating data sets from their various
 services, as their actions can result in the exclusion of rivals. The ability of multiple-
 product ecosystem operators (viz. Meta) to combine vast amounts of user data across
 different platforms can lead to insurmountable barriers for competitors, as they may not
 have access to comparable data sets. This practice will result in distortion of competition
 by providing the dominant firm with an unfair advantage, amplifying its market power.
 In contrast, similar data integration practices by non-dominant firms may not have the
 same exclusionary effects. Non-dominant firms may integrate data sets to enhance
 competitiveness and innovation without causing market-wide harm, as they lack the
 scale and scope to impact multiple markets. Under the Act , dominant firms, are vested
 with a special responsibility to ensure that their conduct does not harm competition or
 gives them an unfair advantage. 232. To conclude, Meta's practices of data sharing across platforms (in this matter, from
 WhatsApp to Meta) lead to both the denial of market access to advertisers in the display
 advertising market and amounts to leveraging of its dominance in the OTT messaging
 market to protect and consolidate its position in the display advertising market. 233. In relation to finding of denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c) of the Act, Meta
 has submitted that establishing denial of market access under Section 4(2)(c) of the Act
 requires that the enterprise should be dominant in a relevant market. However, the
 Investigation Report does not find that Meta enjoys a dominant position in the alleged
 relevant market for online display advertising in India. In this regard, the Commission
 is of the view that there is no statutory or technical requirement that an enterprise must
 hold dominance in the market where the denial of market access is alleged. This is
 particularly relevant in multi-product platform markets that operate as ecosystems,

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 142
 Public Version

 where a dominant firm's conduct in one market can have exclusionary effects in another,
 related market. In multi-product ecosystems like Meta's, services are closely integrated
 in terms of functionality, data, and target groups. As already elaborated, Meta's
 dominance in the OTT messaging market (through WhatsApp) allows it to collect vast
 amounts of user data. This data is shared across its ecosystem, including its display
 advertisement services (Facebook, Instagram). By combining and using this data, Meta
 can offer highly targeted ads, which competitors in the display advertising market cannot
 easily match due to their lack of access to similar data. As a result, this creates a denial
 of market access for these rivals, who cannot compete effectively for advertisers. 234. In the instant case, denial of market access stems from Meta's dominant position in the
 OTT messaging space. By leveraging user data from WhatsApp, Meta consolidates its
 position in other markets, creating entry barriers and reducing competition in markets
 like display advertising. This integration of services and data sharing in platform
 ecosystems is particularly problematic as market power in one domain can spill over
 and adversely affect competition in related or neighbouring markets. Therefore, in
 ecosystem-driven markets, dominance in one product market (such as OTT messaging)
 can lead to anticompetitive outcomes in other related markets (such as online display
 ads), where the dominant firm leverages its data and functional advantages across its
 entire platform and denies market access to players in other markets. In this regard the
 Commission finds the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Competition
 Commission of India Vs. M/s Fast Way Transmission Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal
 No.7215 of 2014) in judgement dated 24.01.2028 relevant wherein the Hon'ble Court
 stated that the term denial of market access "in any manner" is of wide import and must
 be given its natural meaning. 235. Based on the foregoing, the Commission concludes that (a) sharing of WhatsApp users'
 data between Meta companies for purposes other than providing WhatsApp Service
 creates an entry barrier for the rivals of Meta and thus, results in denial of market access
 in the display advertisement market, in contravention of the provisions of Section
 4(2)(c) of the Act; and (b) Meta has engaged in leveraging its dominant position in the

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 143
 Public Version

 OTT messaging apps through smartphones to protect its position in the online display
 advertising market and the same is in contravention of Section 4(2)(e) of the Act. Preliminary submissions by the OPs 236. It is apt to refer to another preliminary submission by WhatsApp. It has been submitted
 that Investigation Report should be rejected and set aside for failing to include an effects
 analysis. In this regard, WhatsApp has referred to the decision dated 29.03.2023 of the
 Hon'ble National Company Law Appellate Tribunal in Google LLC v. Competition
 Commission of India, Competition Appeal (AT) No. 01 of 2023. 237. WhatsApp has also relied on the Court of Justice of the European Union's (CJEU)
 decision in Konkurrensverket v. TeliaSonera Sverige AB (TeliaSonera) wherein the
 court observed that, "in order to establish whether such a practice is abusive, [the]
 practice must have an anticompetitive effect on the market, but the effect does not
 necessarily have to be concrete, and it is sufficient to demonstrate that there is an anti-
 competitive effect which may potentially exclude competitors who are at least as
 efficient as the dominant undertaking" (emphasis added). As per WhatsApp, the
 Investigation Report contains no analysis of the exclusion (or even potential exclusion)
 of any as-efficient competitors, or any competitors at all. 238. The Commission notes that even under an effect-based doctrine, for an action to be
 deemed abusive, it is not necessary for anti-competitive effects to have already
 materialized. The potential impact and the likelihood of effects on the state of
 competition are sufficient. Otherwise, competition authorities and courts would be
 compelled to wait for clear anti-competitive outcomes to surface before intervening,
 which could render their actions too delayed and ineffective. In some instances, such
 effects may take a long time to become apparent or may not be measurable during the
 review period. To address this challenge, the potential impact of the conduct is also
 assessed when determining abuse. If there is a likelihood of anti-competitive market
 foreclosure, the conduct may be classified as abusive even if the harmful effects have
 not yet fully developed. This is inferred from not only the interpretation of the provisions

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 144
 Public Version

 of the Act but also the global jurisprudence in this regard. The CJEU decision in
 TeliaSonera relied upon by WhatsApp also corroborates the same. 239. Under the scheme of the Act, the Commission is, amongst others, obligated "to prevent" 240. In view of the above regulatory framework as provided under the Act, the Commission
 has carefully perused the provisions of Section 4 of the Act and on a holistic
 consideration thereof, it is observed that "dominant position" under the Act has been
 defined as meaning a position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant
 market which enables it to operate independently of competitive forces or to affect its
 competitors or consumers in its favour. Thus, once an entity is found to be dominant in
 the relevant market, the Act recognizes its ability to adversely affect competition in the
 market unilaterally through its conduct. As such, the dominant enterprise is clothed with
 a special responsibility not to indulge in conduct enumerated in Section 4(2) of the Act. 241. Section 32 of the Act which deals with "Acts taking place outside India but having an
 effect on competition in India", clearly inter alia provides that the Commission shall
 notwithstanding that any enterprise abusing the dominant position is outside India, have
 the power to inquire into abuse of dominant position by such player if such dominant
 position has or is likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India.
 That being the statutory scheme in respect of anti-competitive acts taking place outside
 India, there cannot be any higher threshold for examining the abusive conduct which
 has taken place within the limits of India. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 145
 Public Version 242. Furthermore, the statutory architecture is also in accord with the underlying objectives
 of the Act by empowering the Commission to issue peremptory interim orders when an
 act in contravention of the provisions of the Act is about to be committed. This is
 exemplified from a plain reading of the provisions of Section 33 of the Act and for
 felicity of reference, the same are reproduced hereinbelow: 243. The Commission is of the view that in the present case, the information on record clearly
 evidences that users were made to accept the 2021 Update, which mandated sharing of
 data for purposes other than providing WhatsApp services, without offering any choice
 to opt out from the same. This imposition disregards legitimate expectation of users to
 decide as to how their data would be collected and used. Further, such sharing of data
 results in an undue competitive edge to Meta over its rivals. This would result in
 increasing entry barriers for rivals and thus potentially leading to their exclusion from
 the market. The reasoning of the same has already been elaborated supra and the same
 is not being reproduced here for brevity. ORDER 244. In view of the foregoing analysis, the Commission delineates the following relevant
 market(s) in the present matter: SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 146
 Public Version 245. The Commission holds Meta to be dominant in in the first relevant market. Furthermore,
 Meta is found to be in contravention of provisions of Section 4 of the Act as follows: Remedies 246. Accordingly, in terms of the provisions of Section 27(a) of the Act, the Commission
 hereby directs the OPs to cease and desist from indulging in anti-competitive practices
 that have been found to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, as
 detailed in this order. 247. The Commission is of the view that remedies are a critical component of enforcing
 competition law in cases of abuse of dominance, ensuring that anti-competitive harm is
 effectively addressed. The remedies in competition law matters need to correct
 anticompetitive practices. As markets grow more complex, the design of remedies must
 also evolve to tackle emerging competition challenges. Remedies must be effective in
 removing the anti-competitive harm and restoring competitive conditions that would
 have existed without the abuse. They must also be proportional, ensuring the measures
 do not exceed what is necessary to rectify the harm. Tailoring remedies to the specific
 nature of the abuse and market characteristics is essential to ensure both immediate
 correction and long-term deterrence. Furthermore, remedies should not only correct past
 behaviour but also prevent future abuses, maintaining market fairness and safeguarding

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 147
 Public Version

 competition moving forward. The ultimate aim is to re-establish conditions that revive
 the competitive process, allowing rivals to compete on merit. Thus, the competition
 authority has the inherent powers to direct necessary measures to restore and promote
 competition in the relevant market. Recognising these principles, Section 27(g) of the
 Act also empowers the Commission to issue such other orders or directions, as it may
 deem fit. Therefore, in view of the anti-competitive harm elaborated in this order and
 for the purpose of addressing such harm, the OPs are further directed to implement the
 following directions: 247.2 With respect to sharing of WhatsApp user data for purposes other than advertising: 247.2.4 All future policy updates shall also comply with these requirements. 247.3 The OPs are directed to make necessary changes to comply with above directions
 within a period of 3 (three) months from the date of receipt of this order and submit
 a compliance report to the Commission in this regard. Imposition of Penalty 248. The Commission has also considered the issue of imposition of monetary penalty upon
 OPs and has given it a thoughtful consideration. WhatsApp and Meta have averred that
 even if the Commission were to find that they have violated the Act, it should not impose
 any penalty or remedies on them for various reasons mentioned in their respective
 submissions. The Commission has perused the same and notes that these assertions have
 already been dealt in this order. For example, WhatsApp has claimed that it did not
 compel any user to accept the 2021 Update. However, as observed earlier in this order,
 by providing a limited window for accepting the update, a sense of urgency was created
 among the users coercing them to accede to the take-it or leave-it terms dictated by Meta
 (through WhatsApp) out of fear of losing access to the platform which enjoys
 dominance in the relevant market. It has also been claimed that the present matter
 involves novel facts and unique theories of harm. In this regard, the Commission notes
 that the competition issues emanating from data, network effects and leveraging in
 digital markets have assumed huge significance, particularly in the last decade, and the
 Competition Authorities across jurisdictions have been intervening to address the same.
 Of course, the exact nature and impact of issues vary on case-to-case basis. As per Section 4 of the Act, every dominant entity is vested with the responsibility that it does
 not indulge in abusive conduct prohibited therein, such as imposition of unfair

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 149
 Public Version

 conditions, denial of market access, leveraging, etc. Further, Competition Act being an
 independent statute in India, the conduct of the entities needs to be examined as per the
 provisions of the same and the plea taken that they are in compliance with existing data
 protection and privacy legislation does not absolve them of the contraventions found
 under the Competition Act . 249. The objective behind imposition of penalties inter alia is to reflect the seriousness of
 the contravention, and also to ensure that the same deters the entities from violating the
 provisions of the Act. The decision to impose penalty as well as determining the
 quantum of penalties imposed must correspond with the gravity of the offence and also
 have due regard to the mitigating and aggravating circumstances of the case. 250. Section 27(b) of the Act provides that the Commission may impose such penalty upon
 the contravening parties as it may deem fit which shall be not more than ten per cent of
 the average of the turnover for the last three preceding financial years, upon each of
 such person or enterprises which are parties to such agreement or abuse. The
 Competition (Amendment) Act, 2023 (Amendment Act 2023) amended the said section
 by adding two explanations inter alia to provide that "turnover" means global turnover
 derived from all the products and services by a person or an enterprise. In relation to the
 Amendment Act 2023, it has also been submitted that the said amendment is prospective
 and, therefore, should not apply to the present matter, where the impugned conduct pre-
 dates the amendment. It has been further averred that it is an accepted position of law
 that amendments which impact substantive rights and obligations apply prospectively,
 unless the legislation expressly or impliedly provides for retrospective application (In Zile Singh v. State of Haryana ( 2004) 8 SCC 1 and Videocon International Limited v.
 Securities and Exchange Board of India (2015) 4 SCC 33). The OPs have further relied
 on the judgement of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in M/s Khemka & Co
 (Agencies) Pvt. Ltd v State of Maharashtra (1975) 2 SCC 22 to assert that penalty
 provisions in a statute are substantive in nature. It has been further averred that even if
 the provision is applied retrospectively, imposing penalties on the basis of global
 turnover would be disproportionate. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 150
 Public Version 251. In this regard, the Commission notes that Section 27(b) has been amended by way of
 adding two 'explanations' which are extracted below: 252. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in plethora of judgements has clarified the intent, purpose
 and legal effect of an Explanation. The Commission notes that the objective of
 explanation to a section is to clarify or elucidate the intent of the legislation without
 expanding or narrowing its original scope. It serves to make the meaning clear and
 consistent, aiding interpretation without altering or restricting the substantive provision
 itself. Thus, the contentions of the OPs are rejected. 253. Be that as it may, the primary contention of the OPs is that penalty should not be based
 on their global turnover. As elaborated infra, the Commission has computed the penalty
 based on the turnover of the OPs in India and therefore, no prejudice has been caused to
 the OPs by application of amended Section 27(b) of the Act. On the contrary, the OPs
 have benefited from the application of a more transparent and predictable framework
 for penalty computation, as provided under the Turnover Regulations and the Penalty
 Guidelines (both of which have been issued pursuant to Amendment Act 2023 only).
 The adoption of these measures underscores the Commission's commitment to fairness
 and transparency in its decision-making process, ensuring that penalties are
 proportionate and reflective of the impact of the violation within India. 254. Accordingly, the Commission is guided by the amended Section 27(b) as well as the
 Competition Commission of India (Determination of Turnover or Income) Regulations,
 2024 (Turnover Regulations), and general methodology laid down in the Competition

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 151
 Public Version

 Commission of India (Determination of Monetary Penalty) Guidelines, 2024 (Penalty
 Guidelines) in relation to computation of monetary penalty. 255. In terms of Penalty Guidelines issued by the Commission, the first step is determination
 of 'relevant turnover'. Thereafter, the Commission would consider an amount up to
 thirty percent of the average relevant turnover of the enterprise for the purpose of
 determination of penalty to be imposed on an enterprise under Section 27(b) of the Act.
 The amount so determined would be adjusted for mitigating and aggravating factors
 applicable to a given case. Further, subject to legal maximum, the Commission may
 further increase the amount of penalty, if the amount of penalty so determined is not
 sufficient to create deterrence. 256. The OPs have further asserted that penalty should be (a) based on relevant turnover and
 not total turnover of the entity concerned; and (b) imposed on relevant turnover of
 WhatsApp alone and not Meta. In this regard, the Penalty Guidelines issued by the
 Commission, itself prescribes that the starting point for computation of penalty is linked
 to the 'relevant turnover', therefore, the contention of the OPs in this regard stands
 appropriately accounted for. Further, clause 2(1)(h) of the Penalty Guidelines provides
 that 'relevant turnover' means the turnover derived by an enterprise directly or
 indirectly from the sale of products and/or provision of services, to which the
 contravention relates and determined for the purposes of imposition of penalty. Thus,
 the relevant turnover is to be determined with reference to the products or services
 directly or indirectly linked to violation of the Act. 257. In relation to second contention of the OPs i.e., the penalty should be imposed on
 relevant turnover of WhatsApp alone and not Meta, the Commission notes that, as
 discussed in detail in the order, the contravention of the provisions of the Act relates to
 both the OTT messaging services provided by WhatsApp as well as display advertising
 services provided by Meta. Therefore, relevant turnover derived from both of these
 services offered by the OPs must be considered for determining penalty. Additionally,
 the Commission notes that WhatsApp was wholly acquired by Meta in 2014 thereby
 assuming full control of WhatsApp. Further, WhatsApp and Meta vide their replies dated

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 152
 Public Version

 05.07.2021 have submitted that the President of WhatsApp, who is responsible for the
 general management and control of the business and affairs of WhatsApp and the
 general supervision and direction of all its officers, employees, and agents, is also one
 of the Executives of Meta. Further, another executive at Meta is designated as Chief
 Product Officer and is responsible for leading Facebook products including both
 WhatsApp and Messenger services. It is further noted that WhatsApp does not maintain
 stand-alone financial statements and instead its assets/turnover are included in the
 financial statements of Meta. Thus, Meta enjoys full control over the activities and
 operations of WhatsApp. In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the view that
 relevant turnover of both the entities should be considered for computation of penalty
 and the averments of the OPs in this regard are rejected. 258. Coming to the determination of relevant turnover, it is noted from the submissions of
 WhatsApp that penalty should be based on its relevant turnover i.e., WhatsApp's
 turnover in India which is stated to be
 (presumably as the OTT messaging services are provided to users at zero
 monetary cost). Further, it is noted from Meta's submissions that its revenues from
 online digital display advertising in India is the relevant turnover for computation of
 penalty. Meta has furnished details related to its revenues from online digital display
 advertising in India. Therefore, the Commission observes that relevant turnover in the
 present matter is the turnover derived by WhatsApp in India and turnover derived by
 Meta from display advertisement services in India. 259. Para 3 of the Penalty Guidelines also provides that for calculating average relevant
 turnover, the Commission, may consider the relevant turnover or income of three years
 of the enterprise preceding the year in which the DG's Investigation Report is received
 by the Commission. In the present matter, the DG's Investigation Report was received
 by the Commission on 12.01.2023 and accordingly, the Commission had considered
 relevant turnover of Calendar Years (CYs) 2020, 2021 and 2022 of the OPs. 260. The Commission vide its order dated 18.10.2024 sought turnover data from all the three
 OPs for the CYs 2020, 2021 and 2022 within 7 (seven) days of receipt of the said order. SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 153
 Public Version

 This data was furnished by the OPs on 14.11.2024 after seeking an extension of three
 weeks. Based on the said data, relevant turnover of WhatsApp and Meta as determined
 above for the CYs 2020, 2021 and 2022 is tabulated hereunder: 261. The nature and gravity of the contravention can be gauged from the sheer number of
 WhatsApp users affected by the 2021 Update wherein an unfair condition was imposed
 upon them by Meta in coercing them to accept the said update. As a result of such
 coercion, approximately million users had accepted the policy by May 2021.
 Further, as of March 2023, million WhatsApp users have accepted the 2021
 Update i.e., Meta has the unilateral ability to use data of these million users for
 advertising purpose. As already elaborated in detail in this order, user data is crucial in
 offering targeted advertisements creating a lock-in for advertisers to prefer Meta over
 rivals. This is corroborated by the ever-increasing revenue numbers for Meta from
 display advertising. The anti-competitive effect has already been elaborated in this order
 and the same is not being repeated for brevity. Therefore, considering the nature and
 gravity of contravention as well as nature of the industry or sector affected by the
 contravention, the Commission concludes that an amount of 4 % (four per cent) of the
 average total relevant turnover as stated above is the basis for determination of penalty
 to be imposed on the OPs under Section 27(b) of the Act. Accordingly, the amount so
 determined is crore based on average total relevant turnover as computed
 above. 262. Coming to assessment of mitigating and aggravating factors, the OPs have submitted
 various mitigating factors viz. co-operation with the Commission and the DG throughout

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 154
 Public Version

 the investigation, first-time contravention of the Act by the OPs, benefits to consumers
 and advertisers, as well as pro-competitive effects, etc. The OPs have also averred that

 The Commission has given a thoughtful
 consideration to these factors and notes that WhatsApp users started receiving
 notifications relating to mandatory acceptance of 2021 Update from 05.01.2021 and on
 07.05.2021, WhatsApp announced that no user would have their account deleted or lose
 functionality due to non-acceptance of the 2021 Update. Meta has also asserted that user
 data is
 In view of the same, the Commission decides to reduce the amount of
 penalty as determined in previous para by . The Commission do not
 find any aggravating factor in the present matter. 263. Consequently, the Commission imposes a penalty of Rs. 213.14 crore only (Rs. Two
 Hundred Thirteen Crores and Fourteen Lakhs only), upon Meta for violating Section 4 of the Act. Meta is directed to deposit the penalty amount within 60 days of the receipt
 of this order. 264. Before parting, the Commission deems it appropriate to deal with the request of the
 parties seeking confidentiality over certain documents / data / information filed by them
 under Regulation 35 of the General Regulations, 2009 (as amended). Considering the
 grounds given by the OPs for the grant of confidential treatment, the Commission grants
 confidentiality to such documents / data / information in terms of Regulation 36 of the
 General Regulations 2024, subject to Section 57 of the Act, for a period of three years
 from the passing of this order. It is, however, made clear that nothing disclosed in the
 public version of this order shall be deemed to be confidential or deemed to have been
 granted confidentiality, as the same have been used and disclosed for purposes of the
 Act in terms of the provisions contained in Section 57 thereof. Accordingly, the
 Commission directs that two versions of the present order may be issued i.e., public
 version shall be served upon all the parties and a confidential version shall be shared
 with the OPs through members of the confidentiality ring. The public version of the
 order shall be prepared keeping in mind the confidentiality requests and the provisions

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 155
 Public Version

 of Section 57 of the Act read with Regulation 36 of the General Regulations 2024. For
 convenience, it is directed that the confidential version of this order may be provided to
 such ring members/ individuals through one of the ring members, who may then share
 the same with the other ring members nominated by the OPs. 265. The Secretary is directed to forward certified copies of the present order to the parties,
 in terms of the directions above. Sd/- (Ravneet Kaur)
 Chairperson

 Sd/- (Anil Agrawal)
 Member

 Sd/- (Deepak Anurag)
 Member

 New Delhi
 Date: 18 / 11 / 2024

 SM Case No. 01 of 2021 and Case Nos. 05 of 2021 & 30 of 2021 156