Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> 

 

Title: Discussion on the motion of Thanks on the President's Address to both Houses of Parliament assembled together on 23.02.2016 moved by Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi and seconded by Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal. HON.SPEAKER: Just now, we will start the discussion on the Motion of Thanks.  After that, at about 3 o’ clock, we will start this discussion. Thank you. There will be no ‘Zero Hour’ now.  It will be taken up after 6 o’ clock. … (Interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष : ज़ीरो ऑवर अभी नहीं होगा अभी हम राष्ट्रपति जी के अभिभाषण पर रखे गए धन्यवाद प्रस्ताव पर चर्चा करेंगे। इसलिए ज़ीरो ऑवर शाम को छः बजे के बाद लिया जाएगा। अब आप बैठ जाएं। SHRIMATI MEENAKASHI LEKHI ( NEW DELHI ):  Hon. Madam Speaker, I stand before this august House to open the discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address on behalf of my colleagues. आदरणीय अध्यक्ष जी,  सर्वप्रथम तो मैं माननीय महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी को धन्यवाद देना चाहती हूं कि उन्होंने अपने अभिभाषण में देश हित को लेकर अनेक महत्वपूर्ण मुद्दे उठाए एवम् मुख्य बिंदुओं पर चर्चा की। हम सबको उन्हें सुनने का मौका मिला। To begin with, from the beginning, Madam, India for long, was at the cusp of reaching the pinnacle   of global leadership as a major epicenter of economic, military and soft power.  Yet years became decades and that did not happen.  In spite of all advantages in the form of democracy, demography and demand, somewhere India  remained mired in its own problems. The world kept waiting for us, but we were too reluctant to board the bus.  It was not pacifism but also some sort fascination for some illusionary  socialistic model that brought India down in the early Nineties.  The beginning of the new millennium did offer many opportunities and major opportunities for India to take the whole position. Global politics was changing; Asia was becoming the hub of manufacturing; and China was racing past the west, and once again, India was poised. The Telecom Revolution, the Golden Quadrilateral were some projects, which did shape up India to an extent, yet for decades, since then, India did not board the bus once again.  Policy paralysis, rampant corruption, appeasement politics, nepotism, red-tapism and giving priority to populist measures rather than the real welfare issues, became the policy of this country, which put India in a very poor light and the future looked really bleak. When Shri Narendra Modi’s   Government took over the mantle, India was known more for corruption than anything else.  The 2G scam, CWG scam, coal scam, and the list of scams just goes on, became the talking point for the world. Investors were shying away from investing in India.  Modernization of Armed Forces was pending for a decade.  There was lack of optimism both within the country, inside the country and outside the country.  It was then the Narendra Modi Government emerged. Hon. Speaker Madam, I take this opportunity to put forward some of the initiatives of this Government to fulfil the aspirations of 126 crore Indians.  India became the fastest growing economy.  Our governance paradigm seeks to undertake development and development for each and every section of this country and of this society. Our goal is to reach out to the poorest of the poor, every section of society and to the remotest corner of the county and ensure delivery of services and effective policy making in this regard.  Economic development alongside social justice in a time bound manner needs coordination and efficient implementation through all stakeholders – be it States, local Governments, businesses, NGOs and most importantly, people of this nation. The process has been slow because of the enormity of the situation and the task ahead.  Reforms are relatively slow but effective methodology for achieving the goals requires constructive blending of skills, capital and reform mechanism.  In this regard, whether it is in the area of skilling, it is in the area of getting investments or having reformist attitude towards various reform mechanisms or regulatory mechanism, the Government has actually been very serious and is working towards that.  The Government of India’s centre piece programme for changing or transforming the country is actually ‘Make in India’.   ‘Make in India’ has three major parts –construction of infrastructure, Railways and defence, and these three along with Telecom sector are going to transform the way our country progressed till now and is likely to progress in future. The paradigm shift to transform India is definitely that we are inching towards our goals and India is likely to become the global manufacturing powerhouse.  Since its launch, the Prime Minister, Mr. Modi has pulled all steps, all full stops for the global participation is India’s story. In the recently concluded ‘Make in India Week’ in Maharashtra, projects worth eight lakh crore rupees have been inked.  More than two lakh jobs, thus, shall be created.  Our manufacturing landscape is in the process of rapid reforms whereas ‘Ease of Doing Business’ is facilitated by the Government and many State Governments have their own transformatory objective to achieve and participate in nation building. 12.28 hours                        (Shri Anandrao Adsul in the Chair) 

          The related business with respect to ‘Make in India’ is integration of various opportunities which are available to business houses, respective States, national and international stakeholders to provide win-win situation and economic climate for all.  Some of the proposals in ‘Make in India’ programme include – direct tax exemptions for the first three years for MSMEs, tax holidays for local manufacturing of defence, aerospace products, sops for R&D, tax benefits to attract electronic and telecom manufacturers amongst others.  The programme is designed to facilitate investment, foster innovation, enhance skill development, protect intellectual property and build best in class manufacturing infrastructure. The ‘Make in India’ initiative has created fans and admirers both domestically and internationally and global leaders are also admiring this process. The world is eager to partner India in this initiative.  The ‘Make in India’ recognizes Ease of Doing Business and as an important factor to promote entrepreneurship, a number of initiatives have already been undertaken to ease business environment.  Steps are being undertaken to delicense and deregulate the industry during the entire life cycle of the business. High value industrial sectors are sought to be created and FDI liberalisation has actually brought in FDI in this country.  To specify a few statistics, the FDI cap has been raised from 26 per cent to 49 per cent, portfolio investment in defence sector permitted up to 24 per cent under the automatic route and 100 FDI allowed in defence sector for modern and state-of-art technology on case to case basis. Also, 100 per cent FDI in automatic route is permitted in construction, operation and maintenance in specified rail infrastructure. India today is two trillion dollar economy in terms of GDP and more than eight trillion economy in terms of purchasing power parity. If one looks across the globe, very few countries are today poised to take the quantum leap in terms of economic growth as India is poised. Effort of the present Government to outline ‘Make in India’ as the focal point of India’s development is much appreciated. India became the largest recipient in FDI in the first half of 2015 and around 31 billion of FDI has come into India. India claimed five notches to the 113th rank in the latest 2015 UNDP Report on account of rise in life expectancy and per capita income. Despite adverse international conditions, India’s GDP is poised to grow at seven per cent per annum. With inflation figures much below five per cent and healthy domestic economic climate, India is fast emerging as a world leader in economic sphere. In recent quarter, Indian manufacturing output grew by 9.3 per cent. The Indian Railways got Rs.40,000 crore deal with GE to make electric and diesel automatic locomotives in India in collaboration with Railways is a great example of how ‘Make in India’ has started showing results. When we discuss the issues regarding railways, I must bring up HOG, Head Over Generation, which, at a smaller level, the Railways has initiated in which the extra carriage capacity is taken care of. Wind mill, renewable energy, electricity and transforming the railway travel are the various initiatives that are being constantly undertaken by the Railways and ‘Make in India’ is taking shape through the railways and railways is becoming an engine to drive the economy forward. The dynamic nature of our export-import regime needs quick and assertive decision making upholding our domestic demands. Exports in certain items have declined in the recent quarter. For some analysts, that is a cause of concern but it is not so because similarly when the exports have declined, imports have also declined. Our trade imbalance gap, which used to be very high, reduced drastically. This is because domestic manufacturing is picking up and we must support such a scenario as it generates more employment for the aspiring youth of India. Despite two consecutive years of rain shortfall and drought in many parts of the country, we could still administer a smooth and unhindered supply of food grains. Our farmers stood up to their mission and they are ensuring quality agriculture produce at all times. One of the serious challenges of this Government is its inheritance of agrarian crisis which we have inherited from the previous years. Farmers’ suicide is another issue. We simply cannot ignore it. The crises have been for decades. Therefore, its solution also requires a little more time. But every stakeholder has to be on board to deal with this particular aspect. All the State Governments must come forward to support this cause and let us ensure that agrarian crisis does not take the better of our brave farmers. Our agro infrastructure comprises many stakeholders, which also include banks, local Governments, commodities, markets and the farmers. Our priority has been to provide irrigation, water and fertilizer. The solution, therefore, needs a coordinated approach amongst all the stakeholders – the local governments, the State Governments, the Central Government, commodity markets and also the farmers themselves. The soil health card, fertilizers – especially urea coated with neem, compensation for farmers of drought affected areas are a few of many initiatives which have been undertaken by this Government. सभापति महोदय, प्रधानमंत्री फसल बीमा योजना एक ऐसी योजना है, जिससे कृषि में एक बहुत ही बड़ा बदलाव आने वाला है। खास तौर पर उस मज़बूर किसान के लिए, जिसको कभी भी मुआवज़ा पूरा नहीं मिलता था। इस योजना के तहत आपदा की परिभाषा को बदला गया है। इस स्कीम को बेहतर बनाने के लिए पुरानी स्कीम की अच्छी चीज़ें को रखा गया है और जो खामियां थी, उनको दूर करने की कोशिश की गई है। इस स्कीम के तहत जो राशि किसान को देनी है, वह बहुत कम है और नई-नई तकनीकें, जिसमें मोबाइल फोन और जो नुकसान हुआ है, उसकी बेहतर असेसमेंट हो सके और एक सही समय के अनुसार पूर्ण रूप से मुआवज़ा किसानों तक पहुंचाया जा सके, इस प्रकार की व्यवस्था की गई है। इस स्कीम के तहत 8800 करोड़ रूपये बीमा के माध्यम से इंश्योरेंस प्रीमियम को पूरा करने के लिए रखे गए हैं। जिससे अधिक से अधिक जो फसल का एरिया है, इलाका है, उसकी भरपाई के लिए काम किया जा रहा है। सबसे कम प्रीमियम और सबसे बेहतर रिज़ल्ट वाली यह योजना, स्वतंत्र भारत के लिए अपने आप में एक ऐतिहासिक कदम है। मात्र दो प्रतिशत, खरीफ की जो फसलें हैं, उनको देना है, जिसमें भोजन से संबंधित उत्पाद और तिलहन शामिल है और केवल डेढ़ प्रतिशत रबी की फसलों के लिए रखा गया है और 8800 करोड़ रूपये की जो इंश्योरेंस या बीमा स्कीम है, उसके तहत हर तरीके के आपदा को सम्मिलित किया गया है। बाकी का जो पैसा प्रीमियम का है, वह केंद्र सरकार भरपाई करेगी और 50 प्रतिशत जो फसल का इलाका है, 194.40 लाख हैक्टेयर को इसको तहत कवर किया गया है। आने वाले खरीफ के मौसम में जो कि जून से शुरू होता है, तब स्कीम को लागू किया जाएगा और बीज डालने से आखरी कटाई तक का जो समय है और उसके बीच जो भी नुकसान अगर किसी किसान का होता है, उसकी भरपाई के लिए यह कदम उठाया गया है। इसमें ऊपर की कोई भी लिमिट नहीं है और जो बकाया 90 प्रतिशत है, उसकी भरपाई सरकार द्वारा की जाएगी। इसी प्रोविजन के तहत सबसे कम किश्त देने पर, सबसे कम पेमेंट देने पर, सबसे अधिक लाभ की यह जो स्कीम है, उससे किसानों का नुकसान लगातार कम होगा। जिस प्रकार से डेट या ऋण के कारण जो आत्महत्या किसान करते हैं, उस पर भी इसका बहुत बड़ा प्रभाव पड़ेगा। फोन की टेक्नोलॉजी, सेटेलाइट टेक्नोलॉजी और तमाम तरीके की बेहतरीन टेक्नोलॉजीज का इस्तेमाल करके किसानों को तुरन्त जो मुआवजे की कीमत है, वह वापस पहुँचाई जाए, उसका जल्द से जल्द भुगतान किया जाए, ऐसी सरकार की मंशा है। किसानों को ध्यान में रखते हुए एक्सपोर्ट-इंपोर्ट पॉलिसी पर भी काम करने की जरूरत थी, जिसमें वैल्यू ऐडेड इनीशिएटिव्स लिए गए हैं और जितने भी एग्रीकल्चर प्रोडय़ूस हैं, उससे किसानों को पूरे अंतर्राष्ट्रीय बाजार में लाभ मिल सके, इस पर काम किया जा रहा है। 12.42 hours                                          (Hon. Speaker in the Chair) 

          Organic farming, use of technology for irrigation with better quality seeds will enhance the productivity and benefit all the stockholders. A robust pricing mechanism, which seeks to eliminate hoarders and middlemen from the system, will ensure effective delivery. सबके साथ, जैसा कि मैंने पहले भी कहा कि लगातार भिन्न स्टेक होल्डर्स के बीच एकजुट होकर काम करने की आवश्यकता है, ताकि बिचौलियों को इस पूरे साइकल से समाप्त किया जा सके और जो लोग लगातार ब्लैकमेल और इस तरीके की ब्लैक मार्केटिंग में जुड़ते हैं, चाहे प्याज का मौसम हो तो प्याज, आलू का मौसम हो आलू, दाल का मौसम हो तो दाल, इस सबको समाप्त किया जाए और इस देश के अंदर पूरा एक यूनिफाइड बाजार क्रिएट किया जा सके, सरकार लगातार उसके प्रति जागरूक है और काम कर रही है। फॉरेन पॉलिसी इनीशिएटिव में भी सरकार ने बेहतरीन काम किया है, जिसका लाभ हमें सब तरफ से मिल रहा है।     On the Foreign Policy initiative, the Government has done an excellent job. The Make in India mantra coupled with aggressive campaign has made India a respectable and trustworthy destination for many international players to do business with. Barring a few glitches with our neighbourhood, our neighbourhood is far more secure and safe. Our diplomatic community has done a splendid job in upholding the tenets of our national interest while dealing with friendly and sometimes hostile regimes of the world.  Our engagement with the United States, France, China, Russia, Japan and the United Kingdom has improved manifold. India’s viewpoint and concerns are articulated effectively in international events. We, therefore, negotiated the climate change and COP-21 very successfully. Our foreign direct investment has almost doubled. The recently concluded International Navy Fleet Review was a super success. Many countries have realized to come together to fight against terrorism. This Government has set up robust mechanisms to exchange intelligence information and prevent terrorist attacks, and to an extent, the example was set by Pathankot incident. It was the worst form of terror attack on India and if it is compared with 26/11 incident, we handled it very differently. The Swachh Bharat Scheme has raised our collective consciousness towards the clean and green environment. The various components of the scheme are beginning to show results. More than eight lakh toilets have been built in schools and rural areas. It is a slow but effective campaign which will transform our country into a clean and safe place to live in. The Swachh Bharat Campaign has a major component of health and it specifically affects the health of young children and women in particular. So, the entire focus having shifted to Swachh Bharat, lot of investment from private and government bodies is coming and the collective consciousness has actually led to a better environment. A lot of work needs to be done and we are on the right track. I am glad to inform this House that more than 95 per cent of our citizens are connected with Aadhaar Cards. Most of them are connected to their Jan Dhan Accounts as well, which enables this Government to deliver services effectively. So, all the intermediaries, who were not working towards letting the benefits pass on to the ones who needed it the most, the Aadhaar Card initiation has helped and the biggest example was when this particular Scheme was utilised during the Chennai floods to deliver the services. Our Social Insurance Schemes have helped the poor and the downtrodden. The Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme is gradually transforming our communities towards support for gender equality while creating social awareness towards such sensitive issues. हरियाणा कुछ समय पहले किसी और विषय के लिए खबरों में था, लेकिन जो सबसे बड़ा एचीवमेंट हरियाणा का है, वह बेटी बचाओ, बेटी पढ़ाओ में मेरे अनुसार रहा है। जहाँ पर 817 का रेश्यो होता था एक हजार पुरूषें पर, वह आज बढ़कर 899 हो चुका है मात्र एक साल के भीतर। खास तौर पर केन्द्र सरकार की स्कीम को जिस तरीके से हरियाणा सरकार ने लागू किया, उसके लिए मैं अपनी सरकार को धन्यवाद देना चाहती हूँ कि बेटी बचाओ, बेटी पढ़ाओ जैसी योजना के तहत जब आप लोगों के बीच में जागरूकता से काम करते हैं और सब स्टेक होल्डर्स मिलकर काम करते हैं तो नतीजे बहुत जल्दी आप सबके सामने आते हैं। The recently launched Start-up India and Stand-up India Schemes seek to focus on risk-free employment activity supported by the Administration through single-window approval mechanism. These Schemes are channelising the entrepreneurial energies of our youth, women and backward classes and creating productive employment. Skill Development of our human capital has been a key area where a lot of work is being done. Incentives for Skill Development Centres by way of finance, technical know-how and integration with the industry have yielded desired results. आज मुझे लगता है कि अगर सबसे बड़ा कोई सामाजिक कार्य हो सकता है तो वह युवाओं को हुनर देने का कार्य हो सकता है। इस हुनर के कार्यक्रम में सरकार ने एक बेहतरीन कदम उठाया है और युवा शक्ति को आगे लाकर अपने सम्मान के साथ खड़ा करने की कोशिश की है और हुनर पर जिस तरीके से ध्यान दिया गया है, उसके लिए यह सरकार काबिलेतारीफ है। It is because Skill India can actually change the way our systems operate and for India to become a global player, whether in economic market or any other market, we need skilled youth force and skilled youth force can only be guaranteed by Governmental intervention. I can very proudly exhibit that the Government has worked very hard towards providing skill to the youth; bringing forward the required youth; and getting them required employment in this process. The Government has allocated more than Rs. 7,000 crore to develop Smart Cities. By the year 2020, people’s participation with all the stakeholders will make it possible. The concerned Ministries have rolled out ambitious roadmaps for the coming months and years to ensure speedy implementation of Smart City Project. Hon. Speaker, Madam, on all the fronts, the biggest drawback in the past systems and the one which led to corruption of various kinds was the banking system. So, the banking system had to be improved and banking facilities had to be brought in because a lot of people talked about inclusive India and rights for the poor, but there was no inclusion happening on the ground. But this Government has taken some serious steps for inclusive development including for all the people who really needed it. An improvement on the banking sector has been one of the major achievements, according to me, of this Government.  2015 में भारत सरकार मुद्रा बैंक लेकर आई और उसका जो सबसे बड़ा उद्देश्य था, वह उन लोगों तक पैसा पहुँचाना था जो लोग 42 या 48 प्रतिशत जीडीपी के हिस्सेदार होते हैं। उनके लिए आज तक कोई स्कीम नहीं थी और वह छोटा मोटा रोज़गार करने वाले लोग, चाय की दुकान चलाने वाले लोग, सिलाई का काम करने वाले लोगों की बेहतरी के लिए कभी किसी सरकार ने नहीं सोचा था और कोई स्कीम नहीं बनाई थी। इस सरकार ने मुद्रा बैंक के द्वारा उन लोगों तक पहुँचने की कोशिश की क्योंकि अधिकतर लोन फैसिलिटीज़ उन बड़े बिज़नैसमैन को मिलती थी, उन बड़े इंडस्ट्रियलिस्ट्स को मिलती थी, जो बैंक्स को पैसा ही नहीं लौटा पाते थे और एन.पी.ए. के लिए भी ज़िम्मेदार थे। लेकिन जो लोग ईमानदारी से काम करके पैसा लौटाना चाहते हैं और अपनी ज़िन्दगी गुज़र-बसर करना चाहते हैं, उनकी बेहतरी के लिए कोई स्कीम नहीं थी, लेकिन मुद्रा के द्वारा सरकार ने इस काम को करने की कोशिश की है और 5.7 जो माइक्रो और स्माल बिज़नैसेज़ हैं, उन तक पहुँचने के लिए एक इंस्टीटय़ूशनल फंड क्रियेट किया है। 5.7 करोड़ माइक्रो यूनिट्स जो कि 12 करोड़ लोगों को सीधे तौर पर रोज़गार देते हैं और अगर उनके परिवारों की संख्या जोड़ी जाए तो तकरीबन 30-32 करोड़ लोग इस पर आश्रित हैं। इनके लिए सही तरीके से मदद हो सके, फाइनैंशियल मदद हो सके और सही ऋण इनको प्राप्त कराया जा सके, इसके लिए सरकार ने काम किया। आरबीआई  ने 10 ऐसे स्माल फाइनैंस बैंक्स को घोषित किया और 11 पेमेन्ट बैंक्स को। सुबह मैं सुन रही थी, एक प्रश्न के जवाब में उत्तर आ रहा था कि कोई पेमेन्ट बैंक नहीं है, तो इंडिया पोस्ट को भी ऐसा आदेश दिया गया है और पेमेन्ट बैंक का लाइसैंस उनको दिया गया है। जनधन योजना में, जिसमें कि 30 सितम्बर 2015 को 76.81 प्रतिशत  ऐसे खाते थे, जो ज़ीरो बैलैन्स वाले थे या जिनमें कोई भी धन नहीं पहुँचा था और कोई ट्रांज़ैक्शन नहीं थी। वह आज दिसम्बर के महीने में घटकर मात्र 32 प्रतिशत रह गया है और 20 करोड़ इन खातों के द्वारा 30 हज़ार करोड़ इनमें डिपॉज़िट किया गया है। प्रधान मंत्री फसल बीमा और जीवन बीमा योजनाओं से सब लोग परिचित हैं लेकिन ये ऐसी योजनाएँ हैं कि जो गरीब से गरीब तबके को लाभ पहुँचाने के लिए लाई गई हैं और मात्र एक रुपया रोज़ और 12 रुपये वाली योजनाएँ हैं। इस तरह की जो बीमा योजनाएँ हैं, ...(व्यवधान) दो योजनाएँ हैं - एक बीमा और दूसरी जीवन बीमा। एक 360 रुपये की और 12 रुपये की जो दुर्घटना योजना है, वे योजनाएँ आज तक इस देश के गरीबों को कभी उपलब्ध नहीं थीं। पहली बार यह सरकार गरीबों के लिए ऐसी योजना लाई जिसका लाभ गरीब से गरीब व्यक्ति को मिल सके। प्रधान मंत्री कौशल विकास योजना, जिसके विषय में मैं पहले भी बोल चुकी हूँ, उसमें ऐसे सक्सैसफुल कैन्डीडेट, जो कि इस कौशल विकास से पढ़कर बाहर निकलते हैं, उनको भी लाभ मिलेगा और साथ ही 5 से लेकर 1.5 लाख रुपये तक का पैसा उनको सरकार के माध्यम से दिलवाया जाएगा और 34 लाख युवा इसका लाभ उठा पाएँगे जो कि अगले पाँच साल की हमारी योजना है। डिजिटल इंडिया एक ऐसा कार्यक्रम है जिसमें लगातार सरकार कोशिश कर रही है कि बेहतरीन से बेहतरीन सिस्टम, इनफ्रास्ट्रक्चर इस देश में खड़ा हो सके और सुबह प्रश्न के उत्तर में मंत्री जी ने बताया भी कि किस प्रकार से हमें मिला और कहाँ तक हम उसको ले आए और कितना केबल नैटवर्क को बढ़ाया गया और योजनाबद्ध तरीके से अधिक से अधिक गांवों को इससे कनैक्ट करने की कोशिश हुई। 2.5 लाख गांव इससे जुड़े हैं। Digital infrastructure is a necessity and utility for every Indian whether it is through public cloud, cyber security, bank account, Common Service Centres, broadband highways. इस सब का लाभ गवर्नेंस और सर्विसेज़ के माध्यम से दिया जा रहा है और हर नागरिक को इसका लाभ मिले, सिस्टम के अन्दर पारदर्शिता आये और उस लाभ के कारण हम भ्रष्टाचार को भी समाप्त कर पायें, ऐसी सरकार की इच्छा है। डिजिटल इंडिया प्रोग्राम में 4.5 लाख करोड़ इन्वैस्टमेंट के माध्यम से प्राप्त किया है और 18 लाख नये रोजगार क्रिएट किये गये हैं। प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना, जो कि 25 जून, 2015 को लागू की गई। इस योजना में लोगों को बेहतर घर मिल सकें, इसके लिए 305 शहर और कस्बों को चिन्हित किया गया है और नौ ऐसे राज्य हैं, जहां पर इस स्कीम को इम्प्लीमेंट किया जाने वाला है। Even in the power sector, when the NDA came to power, the condition of coal supply in the country was precarious with many power plants shutting down and had critically low reserve of coal. Supplies were not being able to match up to the demand. Today the situation of power sector has witnessed massive improvement. Coal production has reached a level of 336 million tonnes. Many of the critical issues of the power sector especially with respect to coal supply and power transmission has been taken care of. The Ministry has added 22,566 megawatts of electricity generation capacity out of 20,830 megawatt in the thermal sector alone. The Government has a target of generation of 100 gigawatt of solar power by 2022. The target has now been split into 40 gigawatt of roof top and 60 gigawatt through large and medium scale grid connected solar power projects and is expected to entail an investment of Rs.6,000 billion. The overall target is a generation of 175 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2022. Solar Alliance is another success which India has been able to achieve. दीनदयाल उपाध्याय ग्राम ज्योति योजना एक ऐसी योजना है, जिसके तहत 24 घंटे सात दिन पावर सप्लाई हर घर को गांव, देहात में मिल सके, उस पर काम किया गया और इस स्कीम के माध्यम से 18,500 गांवों को तीन साल के भीतर बिजली पहुंचाने का कार्यभार लिया गया है। 3.5 हजार ऐसे होंगे, जिनको ऑफ ग्रिड रिन्युएबल एनर्जी प्राप्त होगी और पांच हजार गांव ऐसे हैं, जिनको इलैक्ट्रीफाई किया गया, in the current fiscal till now under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana. एग्जम्पशन और वे सब चीजें हमको, खास तौर पर टैक्सेशन को सुविधानजक बनाया गया है, ताकि अधिक से अधिक लोग मैन्युफैक्चरिंग हब की तरफ जायें, लेकिन इसी बीच एक और एक अच्छा और बेहतर संदेश हम सब के लिए है कि जापान ने तय किया है कि 12 बिलियन डॉलर का पैकेज हिन्दुस्तान में इन्वैस्टमेंट करने का, जो कि लाँग टर्म में भारत को फायदा पहुंचाएगा और बुलेट ट्रेन को भी लेकर आएगा। 13.00 hours 

इस वोलेटाइल ग्लोबल एनवायर्नमेंट के मध्य भी भारत लगातार बेहतरी की ओर बढ़ रहा है और जिस तरीके की अपेक्षाएं इस सरकार के साथ थीं, लगातार इस सरकार ने उसको क्रियान्वित करके अपने जनमानस का विश्वास प्राप्त किया है और उसी पर कार्य करती जा रही है। So far as threats are concerned, threats to India exist from both State and non-State actors. Initiatives are being taken for capacity building of the law enforcement agencies, and in spite of volatility across the world, India has remained relatively stable. Apart from an impressive growth rate, India continues to have healthy foreign exchange reserves of more than USD 350 billion. Major initiatives have been taken to root out corruption. In FDI, we have removed the restriction in tea plantation as well. In defence sector it has been raised from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. जब हम लोग छोटे थे तो हर कहानी में, जो फेयरी टेल्स होती थीं, उसमें कोई न कोई विच जरूर होती थी। किसी न किसी अच्छी कहानी में कोई न कोई दैत्य, राक्षस जरूर होते थे और जब बड़े हुए तो ऐसा प्रतीत हुआ कि हरेक ग्रोथ स्टोरी के साथ कुछ न कुछ ग्लिचेज़ जरूर होती हैं। While this is the growth story of the country, we do have certain glitches and the glitches come from people who some times use the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar  to cause a vivisection of the country. Let me remind them that Babasaheb was a nationalist. He was a patriot and not a secessionist. He was a reformist with a cause and not a rebel without a cause. As regards his views on Jammu and Kashmir, he never saw it as a problem, he saw it as a solution. While a lot of people wanted to protect the interest of some particular section, he wanted to protect the interest of the nation he served and he thought that was paramount. For some, solution had to come from a particular leader in Kashmir: for Babasaheb the solution was available in the Constitution and ethos of this land. When we look at various opinions in various universities, I miss the nationalistic opinion of Babasaheb Ambedkar and that really haunts me that where has country gone from 1947-1950 to now. When we discuss certain atrocities of certain kind, a specific State I would like to mention and that is Kerala. The atrocities on campus are constantly forgotten and the regressive policies of the left actually have tried to whitewash its brutalities. Constant attempts have been made to deface nationalistic polity. SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN ( KOLLAM ): Can you cite one example? SHRIMATI MEENAKSHI LEKHI ( NEW DELHI ): I will. I have a list. Durgadas, P.S. Anu, Sujit, Kim Karunakaran, Bimbi, Muruganda, Vishal, Sachin, Gopal, these are the names of young students and young people who have been murdered on the campus and in the most Talibanised fashion. … (Interruptions) SHRIMATI P.K. SHREEMATHI TEACHER ( KANNUR ): These are false allegations.… (Interruptions) SHRIMATI MEENAKSHI LEKHI : These are not allegations. These people are executed in cold blood, in Talibanic fashion. Bestial mindset can be judged by the morbid and ghastly murder of Jaikrishna Master.… (Interruptions) While a young person committed suicide, one can understand the pain he was undergoing and the steps which have been taken as unjustifiable but at the same highlighting a tragedy as a Leftist law for dalits is wrong.  … (Interruptions) I wish to take them back to 2010.  Karakkadan Vineesh, a dalit youth was murdered when LDF was in power and his dead body was left hanging in the Talibanic model of execution.   … (Interruptions) Vineesh’s family continues to fight for justice.  Have you heard of Deepa Mohandas, a Ph.D. scholar who was harassed by Marxist goons, Marxist syndicate operating in Kottayam? Megha from Kalady was battered by SFI which has left her blind.  … (Interruptions) All I am trying to exhibit is the contemptuous attitude these people have towards the progress of the nation, the contemptuous attitude these people have towards the development of the nation.  … (Interruptions) On one side, the economy is doing extremely well.  On the other side, they keep raising these issues to derail the development agenda.  I actually want to tell that the ‘kiss of love’ campaigners, the regressive campaigners, the Kerala couple Rahul Pashupalan and his wife Rashmi Nair were arrested for being involved in sex racket and indulging in pedophilia running under the guise of online marketing. … (Interruptions) Now, these are the people who constantly haunt the agenda of development and these are the people who have hypocritical attitude.  … (Interruptions) Most hilarious are the rules and regulations of Pallikoodam, a school run by Ms. Mary Roy, mother of famous ultra-left Arundhati Roy which prescribes the distance between boys and girls to be one metre at all times.  … (Interruptions) This is the kinds of rules and regulations these people propagate.… (Interruptions) माननीय अध्यक्ष : माननीय सदस्यगण, आप अपनी बात बाद में रख सकते हैं। प्लीज़, बैठिए। …( व्यवधान) श्रीमती मीनाक्षी लेखी : आदरणीय अध्यक्ष जी, पहले मैं धन्यवाद देना चाहती हूं और सहमति प्रकट करना चाहती हूं कि जिस प्रकार से माननीय राष्ट्रपति जी ने देश के मुद्दों को सामने रखा और सरकार के किए हुए कामों का व्याख्यान किया।...(व्यवधान)लेकिन, जो लोग भारत के झंडे का अपमान करना चाहते हैं, तो मैं उन्हें सिर्फ यह याद दिलाना चाहती हूं कि झंडा हमेशा डंडे के ऊपर लगाया जाता है।...(व्यवधान) जिस प्रकार व्यक्ति को खड़ा होने के लिए रीढ़ की हड्डी की जरूरत होती है, यह डंडा वही काम करता है। इस डंडे का मतलब ‘रूल-ऑफ-लॉ’ है। कानून के तहत जो उल्लंघन करेगा, उसे वह सज़ा दी जाएगी। HON. SPEAKER: The House stands adjourned to meet again at 1415 hours. 13.09 hours 

The Lok Sabha then adjourned till 

Fifteen Minutes past Fourteen of the Clock. 14.17 hours 

The Lok Sabha re-assembled after Lunch at Fifteen Minutes past 

Fourteen of the Clock. (Shri Pralhad Joshi in the Chair) HON. CHAIRPERSON : Now, Shrimati Meenakashi Lekhi to continue. SHRIMATI MEENAKASHI LEKHI ( NEW DELHI ): Hon. Chairman, Sir, I rise to move: मुझे यह कहते हुए गर्व हो रहा है कि कोल्ड स्टोरेज की क्रिएशन जो इनकी सरकार ने चार साल में 37 किये थे, हमने बीस महीने में 37 और खड़े कर दिये हैं और तकरीबन 1.2 मीट्रिक टन कोल्ड स्टोरेज का इंस्टेंट क्विक फ्रिज 35 मैट्रिक टन का, मिल्क प्रोसैसिंग के लिए 12 लाख लीटर का और 206 रैफर बैंक्स ये सारी चीजें हमने अपने लोगों के लिए, किसानों के लिए अरेंज कर दी हैं जिससे किसानों का भला हो सके। जहां हर तरफ से इस सरकार का निशाना रहा है कि चाहे किसान हों, चाहे युवा हों, चाहे गरीब हों, चाहे सड़क, बिजली, पानी या खेती हो, चाहे दुनिया को हमें देखने का नजरिया हो, 20 महीनों में इस बात से कोई इंकार नहीं कर सकता कि आज दुनिया ने हमारी तरफ नज़रें बदली हैं। जो दुनिया हमें देखती नहीं थी, आज सारी दुनिया हमारी तरफ देख रही है। वैसे मुझे लगता नहीं कि बोलने की जरूरत है लेकिन हमने काम ही इतना किया है कि बोलने में आनन्द आ रहा है तो मैं बोलना चाहूंगी और जैसे मैंने नेशनल हाईवेज के बारे में अभी कहा कि जहां इनके समय में 3500 कि.मी. होते थे, हमने 10,000 कि.मी. 20 महीने में कर दिये। जो रूरल रोड्स होती थी, उसमें मैंने आपको बताया कि 11000 कि.मी. इनसे अधिक हमने केवल 20 महीनों में बना दी। सोलर इंस्टॉल्ड कैपेसिटी, जैसा कि मैंने आपको बताया कि हमने दुगुनी कर दी। एलईडी एफिशिएंसी यानी जिस गति से हमारी बिजली और एफिशिएंट हो सकती है, जो इनके समय में .1 प्रतिशत होती थी, उसको हम 12 प्रतिशत पर ले गये हैं। इस तरह से आप देखिए कि चाहे कोल सप्लाई हो, चाहे ग्रिड एफिशिएंसी हो, चाहे ब्रॉड बैंक यूजर हो, हरेक स्तर पर इंडिया ने पिछले 20 महीनों में जिस तरह से काम किया है, उसकी बराबरी  ये लोग कर ही नहीं सकते। इसमें कोई शक नहीं है कि पिछले 20 महीनों में, जैसे मैंने शुरुआत में कहा कि शायद इतिहास में पहली बार ऐसी नयी सरकार बनी है जिसके 6 पार्लियामेंट सैशन हुए हैं और 6 में से 3 टोटल वॉश-आउट हुए हैं और किन्होंने किये हैं, यह मेरे से ज्यादा भली तरह से आप सब जानते हैं। कुछ पार्टीज इधर बैठी हुई हैं, जिन्होंने इस देश के आर्थिक विकास को रोकने का काम किया है।They are responsible for stalling the economic growth and the development of this country and this is proved by the fact, कि आज राज्य सभा में 55 से ज्यादा बिल्स पेंडिंग हैं। वे क्यों पेंडिंग हैं क्योंकि हाउस चलता नहीं है और कौन चलने नहीं देता, यह बात आप भी जानती है औऱ देश भी जानता है। यह बात भी सब जानते हैं कि आज हमारे देश में काफी राज्यों में नौजवानों में जो अनरैस्ट है, लोग चाहते हैं कि हमें नौकरियां जल्दी मिले और इसका कारण क्या होता है कि जो नौकरियां मिलने का काम, The job generation can be kick-started by certain policies, for example, the GST ऐसी पॉलिसी है जिससे जॉब क्रिएशन भी होगा, देश का डवलपमेंट इकोनॉमिक एजेंडा आगे बढ़ेगा, आज वे लोग उस जीएसटी बिल को पार्लियामेंट में अंदर लाने नहीं देते हैं।...(व्यवधान) हर तरह की डिस्ट्रक्टिव टैक्टिक्स यूज करते हैं क्योंकि ये बर्दाश्त नहीं कर सकते कि जब जीएसटी आ जाएगा तो माननीय प्रधान मंत्री जी की दुनिया भर में वाह वाही होगी और देश के लोग भी वाहवाही करेंगे तो इनको रात को नींद कैसे आएगी। इसलिए यही कारण है कि हरेक तरीके की जिस भी तरह की टैक्टिक्स चाहे इन्हें यूज करनी पड़े, ये करेंगे और ये आज कहते हैं कि इंटॉलरेंस डिसकस किया जाए, स्टूडेंट पॉलिटिक्स यूनिवर्सिटीज में डिसकस की जाए लेकिन जीएसटी डिसकस नहीं करने देना है। ...(व्यवधान) ये सब करने के लिए इनको बैठा लीजिए, इस सब पर सैकड़ों घंटे इनसे बात करवा लीजिए क्योंकि इस डिसकशन से देश की प्रगति नहीं होती।  इनटोलरेंस डिस्कस करके, यूनीवर्सिटी पालिटिक्स डिस्कस करके देश की रफ्तार आगे नहीं बढ़ सकती है। जीएसटी को पास करके देश की रफ्तार आगे बढ़ती है और यह बात इन्हें बर्दाश्त नहीं होती है। आज इन लोगों का एक ही निशाना है कि कैसे मोदी जी को फेल किया जाए। ये लोग इस बात को समझ नहीं पा रहे हैं कि हमारे प्रधानमंत्री जी का अर्जुन की तरह एक ही लक्ष्य है कि कैसे देश की प्रगति हो। इन लोगों का एक ही लक्ष्य है कि मोदी जी को कैसे फेल किया जाए। ये लोग यह नहीं समझ रहे हैं कि इनकी डिसरप्टिव पालिटिक्स मोदी को फेल नहीं कर रही है बल्कि देश का नुकसान कर रही है। महोदया, मैं आखिर में इतना ही कहना चाहती हूं कि माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी तो अर्जुन की तरह एक ही लक्ष्य को आगे रखकर काम करते रहेंगे। इसके साथ ही मैं यह भी कहना चाहती हूं कि हमारे गुरू ने, हमारे दशम पिता श्री गुरू गोबिंद सिंह जी ने फरमाया था -  देह शिवा वर मोहे इहै, शुभ करमन ते कबहू न टरों, ना डरूं अर से जब जाए लरूं, निश्चै कर अपनी जीत करों। हमारी लड़ाई देश की प्रगति की है और देश के विकास की है। ये लोग हमें रोकने में लगे रहें और हम निश्चिय कर अपनी जीत करेंगे और माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी की अगुवाई में देश की प्रगति करके दिखाएंगे। धन्यवाद।