MediaNama’s Take: The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s plan to launch a single-window, India Cine Hub Portal, for live event regulatory and license clearances aimed to ease of doing business is a welcoming step. However, the required regulatory compliances include public safety, crowd management, and environmental safeguards. Additionally, it is still unclear how the government plans to clarify how it will resolve interstate disputes,  especially considering that Goa’s homegrown Sunburn festival is shifting its venue from Goa to Mumbai, underscoring state-level friction that needs to be addressed if the aim is to create a national-level unified portal to facilitate live events.

Similarly, the proposed Unified Digital Music Rights Registry, which promises to simplify licensing across multiple rights societies, is an ambitious goal, but a need for the industry, especially the event managers or promoters. Nonetheless, the key details are still unclear. For example, how does the tariff standardisation work, and how will the tariff-related disputes be resolved? The press release says the Joint Working Group will meet periodically, and its developments should be closely monitored, especially the ticket scaling of live events, which neither MIB’s whitepaper nor the press release addressed.

On August 26, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) held its first Joint Working Group (JWG) meeting on promoting India’s live entertainment industry, which brought together major online ticketing platforms, live event management companies, government representatives from several ministries and states, industry bodies, and music rights associations.

The significant outcomes of the meeting are the announcements of the launch of a single-window live event clearances portal, India Cine Hub Portal , to improve ease of doing business, and the creation of a government-endorsed Centralised Digital Music Licensing Registry in collaboration with rights societies by October 2025 to simplify the existing licensing system involving various music rights societies.

The first meeting of the Joint Working Group held at the National Media Centre in New Delhi was chaired by MIB’s Secretary Sanjay Jaju. The meeting brought together key government ministries, state officials, industry associations, major event companies, and music rights organisations:

Saregama, one of the members of the Joint Working Group, claims it is the only music label in this country with a live events vertical with a massive edge over the competitors. According to Saregama India’s Q1FY26 quarterly presentation , the estimated size of the live events industry is Rs. 1,00,000 million, with an estimated 18% growth in the next three years.

Speaking at the quarterly investors call, Vikram Mehra, the Managing Director of Saregama, said, “The events business is a very high revenue, low margin but a high Internal Rate of Return (IRR) business.” IRR refers to the rate of return at which an investment breaks even. Their third-quarter investor call revealed that Diljit Dosanjh’s Dil Luminati Tour became the most successful tour of any artist ever in India, generating Rs. 279 crores of revenue with Rs. 22 crores of profit in each quarter.

MIB released a whitepaper titled ‘India’s Live Events Economy, A Strategic Growth Imperative’, at the WAVES Summit held in May 2025. This whitepaper was presented by EventFAQ Media, an India-based B2B platform that covers the live entertainment and events industry.

According to FICCI-EY 2024’s report cited in the whitepaper, Indian M&E Sector Growth Report, the live events sector has expanded 15% and generated the revenue of Rs. 13 billion. The whitepaper refers to the growth rate as the second-highest growth rate in India’s media and entertainment sector, after digital media. Similarly, citing the 2024’s Coldplay’s concerts in Ahmedabad and Mumbai, the executive summary of the paper positions India as capable of “hosting world-class events” and as an important destination for global concerts.

The whitepaper also identifies structural challenges in the live events industry and recommends the following solutions:

The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s whitepaper says organisers of public live events in India must secure 10-15 separate permissions, including a public performance licence, loudspeaker or sound amplification license, entertainment tax clearance, premises or structural stability certificate, electrical safety certificate, parking and traffic clearance, public liability insurance, and a copyright compliance certificate. This creates complexity and delays.

To address this issue, the whitepaper recommends an interdepartmental, user-friendly online portal with a standardised licensing framework to complete the process within the recommended 21 days.

Referring to the fragmented licensing system, the Managing Director of GroupM, a media investment company, Vinit Karnik, underlined how the single-window clearance system can help in getting multiple clearances like fire safety, noise licences, and artist visas in a streamlined process.

In a similar vein, the whitepaper says that the decentralised and opaque rights and tariffs are creating barriers for smaller promoters and venues. It also notes that organisers must obtain licences from multiple bodies, including IPRS for musical and literary works, PPL for sound recording rights, Novex Communications for select repertoires, and RMPL for rights from labels such as Saregama, Tips, and Venus, leading to a complex system with overlapping tariff structures.

To address this issue, the MIB recommends a government-endorsed Unified Digital Music Rights Registry to generate summaries, calculate costs, and aggregate payments when organisers upload event agendas to the platform.

Additionally, the whitepaper says the live events, like music concerts, sector lacks formal classification under India’s Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector and creative industry and recommends the MSME status to the live entertainment industry. It also highlights a shortage of globally compliant, purpose-built venues for large-scale concerts and events in metropolitan cities.

In October 2024, BookMyShow filed an FIR in Mumbai against ticket scalping and black-market sales for Coldplay’s concert in India that was scheduled to happen in January 2025. The online ticketing company gave authorities information on resellers, including individuals using Instagram , WhatsApp , and websites like Viagogo and Gigsberg. BookMyShow also warned that it may cancel tickets purchased from resellers.

BookMyShow’s complaint followed after a complaint filed against the ticketing platform itself. Amit Vyas, founder of Vertices Partners, alleged that BookMyShow and Live Nation Entertainment committed organised crime, cheating, and criminal breach of trust under the Bhartiya Nyaya Samhita, 2023. He said the companies conspired to black-market tickets for Coldplay’s January 2025 India concert on Viagogo’s resale platform, defrauding him and the general public. Relating to the issue, the Bombay High Court dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking guidelines to address ticket scalping and the resale of online tickets.

On this issue of illegal reselling of tickets, Raghav Ahooja, an independent tech policy researcher, filed a complaint against the ticket reselling website, Viagogo, with the Grievance Appellate Committee (GAC) for reselling of tickets for the ICC Cricket World Cup that happened in 2023. GAC is an online dispute resolution mechanism established under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology’s Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.

Surprisingly, the whitepaper doesn’t mention anything about ticket scalping or reselling. Meanwhile, it acknowledges the dynamic pricing, allowing the ticketing platforms to adjust the ticket rates based on the demand, timing, and category of seats.

In July, when a local MLA approached the Madras High Court seeking a ban on Anirudh Ravichander’s “Hukum World Tour Concert”—citing mishaps at a previous A.R. Rahman concert—the court ruled the event could proceed if organisers provided required safety measures such as drinking water, temporary washrooms, fire extinguishing equipment, and first aid booths, as mentioned in the petition. Judge Anand Venkatesh also remarked that it is better to designate such locations for such events, as in other countries.

Similar mishaps have happened in the past as well. Despite the British singer, Ed Sheeran, claiming he had permission to do busking, a performing music or other entertainment in public spaces to receive voluntary donations from people passing by, Bengaluru police stopped him from playing the music in Church Street. They said that he didn’t have the necessary permissions. Similarly, in 2024, due to the increased regulatory restrictions in Goa state, the popular Sunburn EDM festival had shifted its venue to Mumbai. Recently, it also announced that the 2025 event will be held in Mumbai.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event