This is a special newsletter that went out to MediaNama subscribers on September 28, 2023.

We bring to you September’s edition of our MarketsNama newsletter.

Before we get to the stories, remember TRAI’s consultation paper on regulating OTT communication platforms? Comments have poured in over the last month, bringing in various perspectives, arguments, misconceptions, and demands. The whole landscape of the telecom industry stands on the edge, awaiting what will become of these discussions and drafts. Read our very extensive coverage here .

Interested in telecom and policy? MediaNama is organising a virtual discussion on I nternational trends in Internet usage fees on October 4 , 2023. Read more on our stellar speaker lineup and agenda here , and register here .

Let’s get started,

Where there’s competition, there’s distortion: The Indian government is contemplating introducing ex-ante regulations to manage competition concerns in the digital marketspace. While those arguing for such regulations appear to want to curb the market power of foreign Big Tech, many argue that ex-ante will adversely impact Indian companies and restrict their innovation and growth.

Although anti-competitive practices are under scrutiny across the globe, India seems to want to become a trailblazer in establishing standard preventative rules in place. India’s Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance in its sixtieth report presented to the parliament this year emphasised that ex-ante is an essential step to ensure that no company can monopolise the market. This statement echoes its earlier stance.

Read our deep dive into what the regulation might mean for Indian and foreign business present in India, what experts and stakeholders are saying, and what could be alternatives.

What’s happening elsewhere in ex-ante? The European Union’s ex-ante regulations, the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act , seek to curb the dominance of big tech companies in the region. The EU has already designated six organisations , including Microsoft and Google, as gatekeepers under the DMA. Will six months be enough for them to comply? Think of the future too: Authorities are addressing digital market monopoly and unfair competition, yet AI’s increasing presence in daily life poses new challenges. Big tech companies control crucial data, despite advocating open source principles. While discussions and agreements on best practices are ongoing, the risk of companies exploiting data persists. Should we establish AI-aware digital marketplace regulations, or is it premature?

Ranging ground: Online payment service has taken over India – thanks to the painful push of COVID. What do you do when a service reaches its peak customer number? You make additions to the service to bring customers to use it more and to add more people to the customer base. Following the same course, UPI recently went live with quite a few features like payment using pre-sanctioned credit lines via banks, conversing with ai and paying, and offline payment using UPI Lite X.

Some features are still on the stove: The prospect of using UPI for ATM withdrawals, alongside debit and credit cards, showcased at the Global Fintech Fest, has titillated the minds of many already. In addition to this, Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) is set to become interoperable with UPI QR codes, offering greater convenience to users. [Read about the CBDC pilot and more here .] However, it is interesting to note that the RBI does not have any statistics on the usage of the retail digital rupee (e-rupee) – this when the central bank has been promoting e-rupee in place of cryptocurrency for ease of tracking and control.

Sin city: Domestic payment fraud is on the rise, tripling from FY 2021 to FY 2023, impacting around 2,000 people per month, per the report presented by the Parliament Standing Committee on Finance this July. The report exposes lax cybersecurity and various fraud tactics, including social engineering and fraudulent apps. It also calls attention to digital lending, cryptocurrency-driven terrorism, and regulatory gaps, while suggesting solutions . But the looming threat of generative AI in cyber fraud remains ghastly overlooked. A recent whitepaper by NGO FCRF on cyber crimes also gives crucial insight to authorities on cybercrime hotspots and trends in India, and reiterates that a challenging road lies ahead, for both the users and the authorities.

Reclaim innovation mojo! 🚀 In August, an expert committee presented a plan to bring back Indian startups that flipped abroad. They’ve dished out over 30 strategic tips, touching everything from taxes to infrastructure. The goal: lure these startups to the International Financial Services Centre in GIFT City, Gujarat. Why’s this flip-flop a big deal? Because it’s like a talent drain, a loss of innovation, and a boost to foreign economies. And, this problematic trend could be a big blow for a nation that’s aiming for a spot in the top three economies of the world.

India’s the spot 🏓: Amazon announced four initiatives to boost e-commerce and exports in India. An alliance with Indian Railways for faster, eco-friendly shipping, an AI assistant for sellers, and more. These steps are part of Amazon’s goals to digitize MSMEs, generate $20 billion in exports, and create 2 million jobs in India by 2025. Clearly, Amazon recognises the potential in the Indian market, just as WhatsApp, which not only launched three new business features on the platform, but also reiterated that India is a key market for them to monetise.

Flying high : ONDC, a ‘non-profit’ e-commerce platform seems to be having a good time. It recorded a significant jump in numbers of sellers (merchants) and restaurants since January this year. Companies like Bluestar, Pepsico, Dunzo, amongst others, have already joined the platform, while some like Ola are in talks. It should not be a shocker though, given it is backed by the strongest player in the space, the Indian government. Sarvesh has been preparing a round-up story of updates around ONDC every month. Read the one from August here .

Lighting the shadowy lanes : The Department of Consumer Affairs is shedding light on dark patterns in e-commerce. Tricking consumers, even though unethical, is an old practice, and in the age of internet and e-commerce, consumers are more vulnerable. Dark patterns include misleading choices that could cost users money, privacy, or trust. Govt’s draft guidelines aim to prevent and regulate these sneaky design tricks that harm consumers’ interests. Stakeholders like Amazon, Meta, and Flipkart have been consulted, and public feedback is welcome until October 5. Read more about the different kinds of dark patterns here .

Harbour at flood risk: India’s Digital India Bill could dispense with safe harbour protections, shaking up the tech landscape. Instead of a default shield for platforms, the government might issue “license-like certifications” to qualified firms. This shift seems to be driven by concerns over online toxicity and misinformation. But it could reshape tech growth and free speech online. The bill might also look to tackle user harms and introduce measures to protect children’s data on social media and gaming platforms. Change is on the horizon, but let us wait and see its impact, if and when it arrives.

This newsletter is a labour of love from the MediaNama team. And we would love to make it better for you 🙂

Have suggestions or want more newsletter series? Let’s chat at [email protected] .

Daily Newsletter | Subscription | Events | Native Advertising Policy

If you liked this newsletter, share it with a friend.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event