The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in a review meeting with telecom companies like Jio, Airtel, and Vodafone Idea (VIL) issued directions to address the problem of unsolicited commercial communication (UCC), according to a report in MoneyControl.

A presentation made by Vi (Vodafone Idea) proposed a system that uses AI/ML (Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning) to detect patterns related to fraudulent messages sent from mobile numbers, the report revealed.

The regulator has granted Vi permission to conduct a pilot on the basis of which regulations will be drafted to incorporate such measures within the ecosystem. Moreover, it has set May 1 as the deadline to implement AI/ML systems targeting UCC.

Why it matters: It is important to note developments emerging out of this meeting as it deals with the issue of spam— a problem that has remained unaddressed despite TRAI’s efforts. A review of these measures can go a long way in identifying gaps in their implementation. It is likely that the problem of spam has persisted partly due to the uneven implementation of measures introduced by TRAI.

What else was discussed: The telecom regulator has also called for the introduction of the blockchain-based Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) system for voice calls, Business Standard reported . It is only in place for unsolicited messages at the moment. Furthermore, it has asked entities such as banks, financial institutions, and others to clean up unused headers and templates as soon as possible. Failure to do the same can result in the blocking of their messages.

TRAI’s measures in the past: The regulator has lately been busy trying to address the problem of spam as it issued directions to block all unverified headers and message templates within 30 and 60 days.

How big is the problem of spam: A survey conducted by LocalCircles said that two out of every three people (66 per cent) in India get three or more spam calls on a daily basis. It added that there was not a single person among thousands of respondents who checked the box of ‘no spam’. The platform said that it was a national survey that gathered over 56,000 responses from Indians located in 342 districts. It also found that 92 percent of responders said that they continue to receive spam despite opting for DND. The DND list feature allows mobile subscribers to register their numbers to avoid getting unsolicited commercial communication (UCC).

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event