1. The issue for consideration is the remedial action for contamination

of water bodies and ground water, specially Ramgarh Lake, Ami River,

Rapti River and Rohani River in and around District Gorakhpur, Uttar

Pradesh. In the course of proceedings certain associated issues have also

been taken up for consideration including industrial pollution,

encroachments, enforcement of Solid Waste and Bio Medical Waste Rules

to which further reference will be made in the later part of this order. 2. The matter has been pending for the last more than six years

and was exhaustively reviewed vide order dated 23.08.2018. The

Tribunal noted the allegation that Ramgarh Lake and the Ami, Rapti and 1 Rohani Rivers in and around District Gorakhpur were severely polluted on

account of discharge of untreated sewage and industrial effluents. It was

also noted that the steps required to prevent contamination of water bodies

and groundwater were not being taken. This was affecting the farmers

and inhabitants, flora, fauna and ecology of area and causing

degradation of the environment. 103 water bodies are under threat. There was no proper management of solid waste and no designated

scientific sanitary landfill. There was encroachment of the Ramgarh

Taal. Common Effluent Treatment Plant ("CETP") had not been set

up. Industries were not complying with the environmental norms. There was high organic load in River Ami and Rapti. Sugar and

Distillery units were also causing pollution. 557 persons died in the

year 2012. About 50,000 persons died in the last 30 years. It was also

noted that Ami, Rapti and Rohani Rivers are the tributaries of

Ghaghara which ultimately terminated into River Ganga. For public

health at Gorakhpur, clean water supply was necessary, apart from

cleaning of water bodies and other steps for protection of

environment. 3. The Tribunal issued directions for the purpose and a Monitoring

Committee was constituted headed by a former Judge of Allahabad High

Court with representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board

(" CPC B"), Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board ("UPPCB") and State Jal

Nigam to oversee compliance of directions of this Tribunal already issued

on the subject of closing the sources of contaminated water (like

handpumps) and taking steps for supply of potable water, to ensure proper

waste management and deal with other issues mentioned above. The

Committee was to carry out inspection of the industries causing pollution

of water bodies, drains and rivers in the area and Effluent Treatment 2 Plants ("ETPs"), Sewage Treatment Plants ("STPs"), CETP and Solid Waste

Management ("SWM") sites. Action plan was required to be prepared for

solid waste processing, proper functioning of ETPs and CETP and also

for making available potable water to the inhabitants, apart from

undertaking rehabilitation program for compensating the victims

who had suffered. The Committee was to furnish reports to this

Tribunal for further action. 4. The matter has been dealt with thereafter on several dates in the

light of reports received from the Committee from time to time as will be

shown in the later part of this order. The Tribunal passed directions with

regard to installation of STPs and CETP by Gorakhpur Industrial

Development Authority ("GIDA"), closure of industries operating

illegally, adding to the pollution of the Rivers or their tributaries,

shifting of construction activities from the floodplain

zones/catchment area, unscientific disposal of municipal and other

wastes. The orders include orders dated 25.10.2018, 17.12.2018,

07.03.2019, 29.04.2019, 19.07.2019, 27.09.2019 and 16.6.2020. 5. Vide order dated 17.12.2018, the Tribunal directed:- 6. Against the above order, the Nagar Nigam Gorakhpur filed Civil

Appeal No. 3957/2019, Gorakhpur Nagar Nigam v. Meera Shukla & Ors . and State of UP filed Civil Appeal No. 5414/2019, State of Uttar Pradesh v. Meera Shukla & Ors. before the Hon'ble Supreme Court which were

dismissed respectively on 08.04.2019 and 01.07.2019. 7. Vide order dated 27.09.2019, in the light of reports received and

earlier orders, the matter was further reviewed. The issues were directed

to be dealt with by the concerned authorities, including a five-member

Committee comprising Secretaries Urban Development, Environment

and Forest, Irrigation and Flood Control, CPC B and the State PCB. Extracts from the order are: 08.02.2019 from the Committee with regard to the pollution
caused by M/s Bharati Research and Breeding Farm, FL-27,
Sector -13, GIDA, Gorakhpur, UP, M/s Mother Shree Dairy, D-
1/3D, Sector 13, GIDA, Gorakhpur, UP, M/s Alkane
Construction Equipment Pvt. Ltd., FL-24, Sector 13, GIDA,
Gorakhpur, UP, M/s Burnet Pharmaceutical Pvt. Ltd., AL-1,
Sector -13, GIDA, Gorakhpur, UP, M/s Gorakhnath Agro
Industries Pvt. Ltd., FL-20/27, Sector-13, GIDA, Gorakhpur, UP,
M/s Royal Savera Foods Pvt. Ltd., FL-28, Sector -13, GIDA,
Gorakhpur, UP and M/s Dr. Sandhu Hatchery, FL-28, Sector -
13, GIDA, Gorakhpur, UP. The same were referred to CPC B for
comments with further directions to the state PCB to take
action in the light of the said reports in accordance with law.
UPPCB has filed an action taken report which will be dealt with in the
later part of this Order. 9. CPC B filed a report about the scale of compensation to be recovered
which was considered vide order dated 29.04.2019. The report was
directed to be acted upon by the State PCB. CPC B was to also deal
with the remedial action against illegal drawal of groundwater. The
compensation was to be revised based on actual period of violation.
The Tribunal also dealt with report dated 18.04.2019 dealing
with the transfer of forest land by the GIDA. 10. Finally, vide order dated 19.07.2019, reports with regard
to pollution by K.M Sugar Mills, and Malvika Cement Private
Limited and also pollution of River Gomti and Ramgarh Lake
were considered. The reports were directed to be furnished to the
CPC B and UPPCB for further action. Report on the issue of illegal
construction in catchment area of Ramgarh Lake was directed to be
dealt with by Urban Development Department of UP. The pollution
of River Gomti, reported by the Committee, in pursuance of a
separate order of the Tribunal in O.A 24/2018, was to be dealt
with by the Chief Secretary, UP. The Chief Secretary was
directed to file an action taken report for consideration in the
matter of pollution of river stretches, i.e O.A. No. 673/2018.
This aspect has to be considered in the said matter. The Urban
Development Department was to file action taken report with regard
to construction by GDA in catchment area of Ramgarh Lake which is
still awaited. Review petition has been filed by GDA seeking liberty
to place its view point before the Urban Development Department. 11. It may be mentioned that apart from the reports relating
to the pollution of the waterbodies in question directly or
indirectly and other connected issues referred to above , the
same learned Judge was also overseeing the subject of
compliance of municipal solid waste in terms of order of this
Tribunal dated 16.01.2019 in O.A. No. 606/2018 (which also
covers compliance of Bio Medical Waste Management Rules,
2016 (BMW Rules)).In this regard, reports have been filed
which have to be dealt with. In the same matter, Chief
Secretaries of all the States were required to remain present
before this Tribunal with the status of compliance on several
important aspects of environment. After their appearance,
directions have been issued requiring them to monitor such 6 compliances at their level at least once in a month and at the
level of the Districts Magistrates, twice in a month. Reports of
such monitoring are to be furnished by the Chief Secretaries
periodically to this Tribunal. 12. We may now note the reports which have been put up for
consideration: B. Report filed by UPPCB dated 13.09.2019 (Pp
 2535-2567) in respect of M/s K.M. Sugar Mills
 (Distillery & Sugar Units), Masaudha, Ayodhya.
 C. Action taken report filed by the UPPCB dated
 23.09.2019 (Pp 2568-2590) in respect of M/s Yash
 Paper Ltd. and the conduct of the SDM, Ayodhya in
 dealing with the matter. D. Report of the UPPCB (Pp 2467-2471) on the
 subject of environmental compensation payable by
 M/s B.R.D. Medical College & Hospital (Nehru
 Chikitsalay), Gorakhpur. E. Report dated 17.07.2019 (Pp 2087-2092) on
 the subject of environmental compensation
 furnished by the UPPCB in respect of: II. Additional Report of the Committee dated 03.08.2019
 (page no. 2446) in respect of M/s Yash Paper Mills Ltd.
 & Rajepur Villaage Darshan Nagar, Ayodhya,
 Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh on the subject of industrial
 pollution alongwith report of the CPC B with regard to 7 Tihura Drain near Yash Paper Mills Ltd. (Pp 2440-
 2445)
 III. Summary of discussions and decisions of the
 Committee on the subject of wetlands dated
 18.07.2019 (Pp 2093-2113)
 IV. Summary of discussions and decisions of the
 Committee on the subject of compliance of Solid
 Waste Management Rules by M/s Amko,
 Bulandshahr Road, Ghaziabad, Radisson Blue Hotel,
 Kaushambi, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, Cantonment,
 Ayodhya, Sand Mining in Jalaun and Hamirpur,
 discharge of effluents in Gomti, recovery of
 compensation from hotels and industries in terms of
 order of this Tribunal dated 17.01.2019, in O.A No.
 24/2018 and storage of 10 crore liters of effluent by
 Sardar Nagar Distillery and river pollution at
 Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Hardoi, Sitapur, Lucknow,
 Raebareli, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, River Sai,
 River Sai Tributary of River Gomti dated 29.07.2019
 (Pp 2245-2256). V. Reports of the Committee regarding solid waste
 management (including Bio-medical waste): 1, Patrakarpuram, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow,
 Uttar Pradesh. (Pp 2312-2363) f) dated 01.08.2019 on the subject of Bio Medical
 Waste Management at S.N. Medical College &
 Hospital District Agra, Uttar Pradesh. (Pp 2305-
 2391) g) dated 05.08.2019 on the subject of Bio Medical
 Waste Management at (i) Super Specialty
 Pediatric Hospital & PG Teaching Institute,
 Sector-30, Noida and (ii) Jaypee Hospital (A Unit
 of Jaypee Healthcare Ltd.), Sector-128, Noida
 Uttar Pradesh. (Pp 2394-2438) 13. We have heard learned Counsel representing applicant, learned
Counsel for CPC B, UPPCB, UP Jal Nigam and learned Counsel for the 8 Yash Paper Mill. We have also heard learned Counsel appearing on
behalf of the Gorakhpur Development Authority (GDA) in Review
Application No. 47/2019 seeking review of order dated 19.07.2019. 14. While we propose to deal with the reports directly
connected to the pollution of water bodies and other connected
issues at Gorakhpur, or otherwise connected thereto, which
have been dealt with in earlier orders, other issues such as
Solid Waste Management at places other than Gorakhpur,
sand mining and pollution of River Gomti may have to be dealt
with in the first instance by concerned administrative
authorities and report furnished to this Tribunal for further
consideration. 15. The reports relating to Solid/Bio-medical Waste Management
indicate violations. Such violations need to be remedies and action
taken as per law for compliance of statutory Rules, including recovery
of compensation on Polluter Pays principle. In order to do so, we
direct that reports relating to Solid Waste Management
(including Bio-medical wastes) be forwarded to Chief
Secretary, UP for appropriate further action and monitoring
and a compliance report being filed in O.A No. 606/2018
(Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste Rules by Uttar Pradesh)
within one month by e-mail. Further consideration of the
matter by this Tribunal will be in the said case. As regards
reports relating to sand mining are concerned, the same may
also be forwarded to the Chief Secretary U.P for appropriate
further action with a direction that action taken report be
furnished in O.A No. 360/2015 (dealing with the subject of
Sand Mining) within one month via e-mail. The reports
mentioned above at items IV and V stand dealt with
accordingly, as far as this order is concerned, pending further
separate consideration as above. 16. We may now deal with reports at items I, II and III mentioned
above. I. Reports filed by the CPC B and the SPCB

 A. Action taken report filed by the CPC B on 17.09.2019 (Pp
 2503-2517) in respect of M/s Malvika Cement Pvt. Ltd.,
 Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh. 17. In view of report of the CPC B that the unit is functioning
without consent to operate and it has also installed tubewells
without NOC, SPCB may take appropriate further action by
way of stopping illegal activity, recovering compensation and
initiating prosecution in accordance with law. 18. The Chief Secretary, Uttar Pradesh may have it examined
as to how electricity connections are given without consent to
operate merely on consent to establish and why tubewells are
being allowed to be dug without permission of the CGWA. An
appropriate mechanism be evolved to remedy such illegalities
in future anywhere in the State. B. Report filed by UPPCB dated 13.09.2019 (Pp 2535-2567)
 in respect of M/s K.M. Sugar Mills (Distillery & Sugar
 Unit), Masaudha, Ayodhya. 19. The Distillery and Sugar units of the industry have been
found to be non-compliant. In view of the facts found, the units
need to be immediately closed by the SPCB under Section
31(1)(c) of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,
1974 in accordance with law in view of the recommendations
of the joint Committee. C. Action taken report filed by the UPPCB dated 23.09.2019
 (Pp 2568-2590) in respect of M/s Yash Paper Ltd. and
 the conduct of the SDM, Ayodhya in dealing with the
 matter. 20. Effluents have been found to be discharged in the drain
connecting the river for which the State Pollution Control
Board (SPCB) has proposed environmental compensation of Rs.
40 lakhs. It is stated that earlier defaults by the unit were
considered by this Tribunal in the year 2016 and now notice
under Section 33A of the Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974 has been issued by the SPCB proposing
closure for the violations. 21. According to the farmers, bandh was erected to prevent
polluting discharge damaging the agricultural fields.
However, according to the SDM, the bandh was removed to
check stoppage of flow of the drain. The drain needs to be kept
clean and its flow need not be obstructed. An updated joint
inspection report is required to be obtained from a joint
Committee of CPC B and the SPCB which issue will henceforth
be dealt with in O.A. No. 399/2019, Mrs. Saraswati vs M/s Yash
Paper Limited & Ors. D. Report of the UPPCB (Pp 2467-2471) on the subject
 of environmental compensation payable by M/s
 B.R.D. Medical College & Hospital (Nehru
 Chikitsalay), Gorakhpur. 22. The SPCB may proceed further in accordance with law in the light
of its report. E. Report of UPPCB dated 17.07.2019 (Pp 2087-2092)
 on the subject of environmental compensation to be
 recovered from said 7 industries in Gorakhpur. 23. The SPCB may proceed further in accordance with law. II. Additional Report of the Committee in respect of
 M/s Yash Paper Mills Ltd. & Rajepur Villaage
 Darshan Nagar, Ayodhya, Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh
 pollution alongwith report of the CPC B with regard
 to Tihura Drain near Yash Paper Mills Ltd. 24. A joint Committee of CPC B and State PCB may take
 remedial action to ensure that the Tihura Drain is cleaned and
 freed from any industrial effluent or other pollutants. A status
 report in this regard may be filed as already directed above. III. Discussions of the Committee relating to wetlands 25. A Joint Committee comprising the Secretaries, Urban
 Development, Environment and Forest and Irrigation, Flood
 Control Department, Uttar Pradesh, UPPCB and the CPC B may
 take further action in accordance with law, in the light of the
 report and furnish an action taken report before the next date.
 The Nodal Agency will be Secretary, Irrigation for
 coordination, compliance and furnishing report to this
 Tribunal. The GDA is at liberty to furnish its view point to the
 said Joint Committee. Review Application No. 47/2019 stands
 disposed of. List the matter for further consideration 09.12.2019." 8. The matter was thereafter considered on 16.06.2020 as

 follows:- (c) Report filed by the UPPCB dated 12.06.2020 mentioning
 the status of steps taken to comply with the earlier
 orders of this Tribunal. (d) 'Action Taken Report' filed on behalf of the Divisional
 Forest Office, Siddharth Nagar dated 10.02.2020 in the
 matter of plantation of indigenous trees on both sides of
 the Ami River upto a distance of 5 km etc. (e) Further report dated 20.12.2019 filed by the UP State
 PCB. (f) A compliance report has also been filed on 13.06.2020
 by Yash Pakka Ltd. (formerly known as Yash Papers
 Limited). 7. Our attention has also been drawn to the following reports filed
 by the Committee headed by Justice D.P. Singh1 not dealt with in the
 order dated 27.9.2019: Industrial Area, Sultanpur Road, Raebareli. 8. The said reports may be forwarded to the current
 Oversight Committee headed by Justice SVS Rathore 2, who
 may obtain the latest status of the matter from the concerned
 authorities and file a consolidated and updated report in the
 matter before the next date by e-mail at [email protected] (preferably in the form of searchable/OCR PDF and not image PDF). 9. Report dated 15.06.2020 filed by the Oversight Committee
 headed by Justice SVS Rathore, former Judge of the Allahabad High
 Court furnishes status of compliance of the orders of this Tribunal,
 including restoration of Ramgarh Taal. The concluding part thereof is
 as under: Despite the concern expressed by NGT for quite
 some time neither the STP at Magahar and
 Khalilabad have been sanctioned nor GIDA has
 commenced work on its CETP. Consequently,
 sewage and industrial effluents are going in the
 rivers without any treatments. Gorakhpur and
 the entire Terai area is highly sensitive to
 Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and Acute 2 Constituted in terms of order dated 21.10.2019 and further modified vide order dated
 16.03.2020 in O.A. No. 670/2018, Atul Singh Chauhan v. Ministry of Environment, Forest and
 Climate Change & Ors . Encephalitis (AE) which cause deaths of
 thousands of children every year. The primary
 cause of JE/AE is pollution. It appears that the
 State Government is not starting the work on
 these CETP/STP by citing that the project is
 pending with NMCG for budgetary approval. Lack
 of funds is no excuse for inaction. The Supreme
 Court order in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti &
 Anr. Applicant(s) Vs. Union of India & Ors. In W.P.
 (Civil) No. 375/2012, clearly mentions that the
 municipalities/local bodies cannot be permitted
 to shy away from discharging their onerous duty
 regarding establishment of CETP/STPs. The
 Supreme Court has directed that the Urban Local
 Bodies have to generate their own financial
 resources for meeting this obligation failing
 which the State Government shall cater to their
 financial requirements regarding CETP/STP. This
 order has been reproduced from NGT order dated
 21.05.2020. Clearly not providing for
 STPs/CETPs is contempt of the Supreme Court as
 well as NGT. Supreme Court in its order has also
 mentioned that Secretary of Environment
 Department shall be answerable in case of
 default. The Secretaries to Government
 concerned shall be responsible for monitoring the
 progress and implementation of above directions.
 Not constructing these STPs/CETPs for lack of
 budgetary support from NMCG certainly is not a
 valid excuse. The Chief Secretary may be directed
 to ensure sufficient budgetary resources either
 from Government of India or from State budget
 within a month, so that work on these
 STPs/CETPs should commence immediately. NGT
 has mandated that any STP where work does not
 commence from 1.04.2020 will be liable to EC @5
 Lakh per month. CPCB may issue notice to the
 Gorakhpur Municipal Corporation/GIDA for EC. 2. No interim measures for the treatment of the
 wastewater in drains and sewages have been
 made yet. has mandated that bioremediation
 and/or phytoremediation or any other
 remediation measures may start as an interim
 measure positively from 01.4.2020, failing which
 the State may be liable to pay compensation of Rs.
 5 Lakhs per month per drain to be deposited with the CPC B. 3. All the municipal corporations were supposed to
 abide by SWM Rules, 2016 by 1.04.2020. Any
 violation in following SWM Rules, beyond the
 deadline would entail penalty. Gorakhpur
 Municipal Corporation has so far not started work
 on landfill site/processing plant. Any default in
 commencing work before 1.04.2020 would attract 13 penalties (EC). CPC B may work out EC and issue
 notice. 4. This area is very sensitive from JE/AE point of
 view. Besides BRD Medical college is the most
 important medical center in this area catering to
 medical requirements of large part of Eastern UP
 and Northern Bihar. The Primary cause of JE/AE
 is pollution. Hence it is most important that BRD
 medical college must follow BMW Rules, 2016.
 More so there is an influx of COVID-19 patients
 which will increase in the coming months
 Principal Secretary Medical Education shall
 ensure that in such critical times, BRD Medical
 College follows all the BMW norms. Any negligence
 on the part of concerned officers may be dealt
 with strictly and responsibility may be fixed. 5. There are a large number of drains going
 untapped in Ramgarh Taal. The state would do
 well to plan STPs for these drains. As an interim
 measure bioremediation /phytoremediation of all
 these drains shall be started immediately. 6. As far as polluting industries are concerned, we
 have been informed by SPCB that production has
 been stopped in such units, prosecution has been
 recommended and RC has been issued against all
 such units. As per SPCB, only such units have
 been permitted which have deposited the EC and
 are complying with the norms. SPCB may be
 directed to continuously monitor such units. 7. Regarding illegal electric connections given to
 units operating without consent or digging of
 tubewells without permission of Central
 Groundwater Authority, it has been mentioned by
 SPCB that the consent to establish an industry
 will be given only after prior groundwater
 clearance. It is recommended that since it is an
 inter-departmental matter, specific instructions
 may be issued to all the departments by Chief
 Secretary. 8. UPPCB has informed that detailed action plans
 related to polluted river stretches of Ghagra,
 Rapti, Varuna, Sai, Saryu, Ami and Tamsa have
 been prepared and approved by River Rejuvenation
 Committee. The implementation of these plans by
 District Environment Committee at District level
 and River Rejuvenation Committee at the State
 level may be continuously monitored. The
 minutes of the State level Committee may be
 uploaded on the State Environmental Portal and
 a copy may be made available to this committee. 9. We have been assured by Additional Chief
 Secretary (Irrigation) that the joint committee
 report on wetlands will be passed in the meeting
 on 15.06.2020 and made available to the
 committee. This committee would send a
 supplementary report on that after getting that
 report and studying it." 10. The above recommendations be acted upon and a report
 filed by the Chief Secretary with report in terms of earlier
 order. We also note the suggestion of the learned Counsel
 appearing for the CPC B that the Tihara drain needs to be
 cleaned and obstructions, if any, thereto removed. This aspect
 may also be looked into by the Oversight Committee. 11. We may generally observe that the action taken so far
 hardly meets the mandate of law and much remains to be done
 for compliance of orders of this Tribunal. Laxity by the officers
 concerned is breach of their statutory and public duties to
 uphold rule of law and protect environment and public health.
 However, learned Counsel for the State PCB states that latest
 status could not be brought forward for which time is required.
 Let the same be done before the next date. 12. In view of prayer made, we grant further time for filing
 updated report by the Chief Secretary, UP, State PCB, DFO,
 Gorakhpur and the Oversight Committee. The Oversight
 Committee may obtain latest status report from the concerned
 Collectors and the concerned departments. Report may be filed
 on or before 30.09.2020 by e-mail at [email protected] (preferably
 in the form of searchable/OCR PDF and not image PDF) which may
 also be uploaded on the website of the CPC B. Comments, if any
 thereto, by any other party may be filed within two weeks thereafter." 9. Accordingly, the Oversight Committee has filed its report on

11.12.2020. The UP State PCB has filed its action taken report on

14.10.2020, followed up additional action taken reports dated 11.12.2020

and 15.12.2020. The Irrigation Department, UP has filed its report on

10.01.2021. M.A. No. 01/2021 has been filed by Gorakhpur Development

Authority to place on record Notification dated 07.12.2020 notifying

Ramgarh Lake as wetland. M.A. No. 02/2021 and M.A. No. 03/2021 have

been filed by the Village Pradhan of Village Rajepur Majha, District

Ayodhya for removing obstruction from Tihura drain and for exemption 15 from filing certified copy of the annexures respectively. We will refer to the

said reports seriatim. I. Report of the Oversight Committee 10. We first take up the updated report of the Oversight Committee. The

issues dealt with in the report are:- 11. The report separately gives the status of compliance by Nagar

 Nigam, Lucknow in O.A. 24/2018, Shailesh Singh v. State of UP , under the

 following heads:- 12. There is separate mention of compliance by M/s Swaroop

 Chemicals. Finally, the Committee has summed up the compliance status

 as follows:- Once the industry received Consent to establish
 from UPPCB, they should be given temporary
 electricity connections and after receiving consent
 to operate from UPPCB, they should be given
 permanent electricity connections. So, in
 compliance to this UPPCB has to provide the list of
 polluting industries to UPPCL and arrangements
 should be made on the Nivesh Mitra portal
 regarding this. The above-mentioned works were
 directed to be completed within one month. related to polluted river stretches of
 Ghaghra, Rapti, Varuna, Sai,
 Saryu, Aami and Tamsa. River
 Rejuvenation Committee, Uttar
 Pradesh has also approved these
 action plans. A prosecution has been filed by the UPPCB
under section 41 of the Water (Prevention and
Control of Pollution) Act, 194 against : Sant Kabir Nagar, duly incorporating the
 observations received from NMCG has been
 submitted to SMCG, GoUP on dated 29-09-
 2020 by Chief Engineer (Ganga),U.P. Jal
 Nigam, Lucknow. Project Director, SMCG has
 forwarded the DPR to Executive Director
 (Project), NMCG, New Delhi vide their letter no
 1050/0032/SMCG-UP/12 dated 19.10.2020. 9 Till the time the Urban Non-Compliant
 installation of Develop The Secretary, Urban Development gave the
 STP is under ment assurance that the work of Phyto/bio-
 process, as an Depart remediation will commence within one month. expected it would be complete by next month.
11 Encroachment in GDA UPPCBhad requested Chairman,Monitoring
 Chilua Taal, Committee to assign the task of identifying
 Suraj Kund Encroachments in the catchment area of
 Pokhra, Jata ChiluaTaal, SurajKund and Jata Shankar,
 Shankar, Pokhra Pokhra to Revenue Dept. because the
 documents related to the area and
 boundaries are maintained by it. 12 River Saryu U.P Jal Partially Complied
 pollution due to Nigam/ DPR of I&D works for Faizabad town is under
 Retiya and Urban preparation and after completion of scheme, no
 Kakrahi drain Develo wastewater will flow into Saryu River. pment The interception works are to be done by Cantt
 / and for remaining 15 drains, DPR amounting
 SMCG Rs. 363.95 Crore including 15year O/M has
 been sent to NMCG, New Delhi by SMCG vide
 letter no. 747/0619/SMCG UP/01, Dated
 27/07/2020. Some observations were raised by
 NMCG & IIT Roorkee on above project. After
 removing the observations, revised project
 amounting Rs. 352.17 Crore has been sentto
 SMCG by CE (Ganga), U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow
 vide letter no. 695/022-0272(31)/2020, Dated
 15.10.2020. 13 Drains fallinginto U.P. Jal Partially Complied
 Sita lake in Nigam/ Compliance report by UP Jal Nigam shows that
 Ayodhya Urban there are 20 drains which after mixing into each
 Develo other fall into Saryu river. From Ayodhya town 5
 pment drains fall into river. All drains are tapped but in
 / Rajghat drain the present discharge in increased
 SMCG as local farmers diverting Faizabad drain
 towards Rajghat pumping station. Thus, the total discharge reaching Rajghat
 pumping station is above the designed capacity.
 Therefore, presently discharge of 04 drains
 and partial water of last drain is being
 pumped for treatment. This issue is under
 process to resolve. 14 Removal of Urban Partially Complied
 Municipal Solid Develo DM, Ayodhya submitted compliance report vide
 Waste fromSita pment letter no. 1135/22-10(NGT) dated 18.11.2020.
 Lake As per the report, 5697 metric tonne of silt has
 been removed. Tender process has been
 initiated to remove the remaining silt

15 Conservation of U.P Jal Partially Complied
 Sita lake and Nigam/ 11000 plantation in 10 hectare area was made
 creation of Urban by Forest Department along the bank of Sita
 recreation centre Develo Lake in 2019. Further action will be taken in
 pment accordance with the wetland rules. Due to
 / COVID 19, action could not be taken in due
 SMCG time. 16 Drain U.P Jal Partially Complied
 construction in Nigam/ Compliance report submitted by EO, Basti
 Basti. Urban Reflects that DPR of drain was submitted for
 Develo approval to the competent authority. It has
 pment been sanctioned and approved. Construction
 process initiated and finalized. 17 Action plan for UPPCB Partially Complied
 restoration and Total length of River Saryu in district Bairaich
 rejuvenation of is approximately 185 km. Survey of 104.500
 River Saryu km has been completed. DPR shall be
 submitted as soon as the survey work is
 finished. 18 Saraya Distillery, UPPCB
 Gorakhpur

19 Action against UPPCB
 Malwika Cement
 " 14. The action taken report filed by the five member joint Committee

comprising Secretaries Irrigation Department, UP, Urban Development

Department, Environment Department, CPC B and State PCB, giving point

wise action taken report with reference to the observations of the Oversight

Committee in its meeting held on 18.07.2019 are:- Government under Namami Gudiyana 5. Rajghat is also tapped,
Gange for appropriate but in Rajghat drain the present
decision in the matter to tap discharge is increased as local
the 20 drains of Ayodhya farmers diverting Faizabad drains
within three months for towards Rajghat Pumping Station, so
follow up action. the total discharge reaching at
 Rajghat Pumping Station is above
 designed capacity of pumping
 station. This issue is under process
 to resolve. So presently discharge of
 above 4 drains and partial water of
 Rajghat drain is being pumped for
 treatment. management are exempted from ensured
 environmental clearance. Hence the
 above work done by Irrigation and
 Water Resources Department, need
 not require any environmental
 clearance 3. Nagar Nigam Ayodhya District Magistrate District Magistrate Ayodhya has Compliance is being Approximately Nine
should remove municipal Ayodhya. Nagar Nigam submitted Compliance report vide ensure months to complete
solid waste from Sita Lake Ayodhya letter no. 1135/22-10 (NGT) dated the work.
within 4 months. Period 18.11.2020 as per report 5697 MT of
begins from 1st July 2019. In silt had been removed Tender process
case they fail to do so, has been initiated to remove the
environmental compensation remaining silt
of Rs. 50 lacs shall be
imposed on Nagar Nigam
Ayodhya and for every day
beyond a period of four
months, Nagar Nigam
Ayodhya shall be liable to
pay compensation of Rs. 10,000 each day. 4. District Authorities shall District Magistrate As per District Magistrate Ayodhya Compliance is being
remove the encroachment Ayodhya compliance report in this mater ensure as per revenue
from the Wetland Khasra Khasra plot no. 57 & 58 (supra) are laws and rules
plot no. 57 and 58 (supra) not indicated in wetland area. These
indicated in the map (supra) plots are registered in the name of
expeditiously say within a land account holder. Hence this not
period of three months in under category of illegal
accordance with law and no encroachment. further construction shall be
permitted on the plots in
question and the use of land 35 shall also not be changed by
Ayodhya Development
Authority of whosoever it
may be. 5.All persons who have been District Magistrate As per District Magistrate Ayodhya
done encroachment over the Ayodhya compliance report there is no illgal As per report of DM, no
wetland/water reservoirs encroachment in khasra plot no. 57 & illegal encroachment has
khasra plot no. 57 and 58 58. Hence environmental been observed
are required to be saddled compensation should not be imposed.
with environmental
compensation at the rate of
Rs. 5000 per day with effect
from 15 August, 2018 or
from the date of
encroachment whichever is
earlier, District Magistrate
shall provide the list of detail
of encroachers to CPC B and
to Monitoring Committee
indicating the date of
encroachment. Of course,
those who demolish or
vacate the premises may be
exempted, CPC B should
assess the compensation
keeping in mind the area
acquired and the extent of
construction raised by the
occupant. 6. District Magistrate District Magistrate Detail project report is being prepared District Magistrate has
Faizabad be notified as Ayodhya by Executive Engineer flood works been instructed to comply
nodal officer to ensure the division, Irrigation Department with the instruction of
restoration of Ayodhya Hon'ble Monitoring
wetland/water reservoir of 36 Khasra plot no. 57&58 Committee for
(supra) and ensure the conservation of the lake.
establishment of Sita lake in
terms of map prepared by
Executive Department with
required paraphernalia to
make it a recreation centre
from the fund available with
Nagar Nigam, other sources
including fund provided by
State Government in
pursuance to the project
report forwarded within a
period of 3 months. District
Magistrate shall submit a
status report in the first
week of every month with
regard to status of
conservation of Sita Lake to
the Monitoring Committee
w.e.f. 1st August, 2019 7. UP Forest Department Principal Secretary Env. Complied Compliance being done as
shall plant indigenous &CC/ District Magistrate per directions of
plants over all the land and Ayodhya 11000 number plantations in 10 UPSWMMC
the Sita lake to make it any Hect. Area have been made by the
oxygen hub for recreation in Forest Department along the bank of
appropriate manner with the Sita lake during rainy season 2019.
help of other authorities. 9. It shall be appropriate for District Magistrate Complied. As per District Magistrate Complied
the State Government to Ayodhya Ayodhya compliance report, Khasra
institute an independent No. 57&58 (supra) are not indicated
enquiry through in wetland area. These plots are
independent machinery to registered in the name of land
unearth the scam and 37 punish the land grabbers or account holder. Hence this not under
 land Mafias, whosoever they category of illegal encroachment.
 may be, in accordance with
 law and take a decision in
 the matter expeditiously,
 say, within a period of three
 months
 10&11. The collector, District Magistrate Complied. As per report of District Compliance is being done
 Revenue Authority, Ayodhya Ayodhya Magistrate Ayodhya action has been
 shall protect the Revenue taken as per existing record and rules
 Records and ensure to make
 appropriate to rules, keeping
 in view the material brought
 on record. Special
 commendation be recorded
 in the service record of Naib
 Tehsildar Shri. Mohd. DM/COO, Executive and Narayani (Badi Gandak) may be till 31st December, 2020. It
 Engineer Jal Nigam and DFO assigned to the Revenue and has been decided that if
 of the concerned District, has Irrigation because the documents ATR is not submitted by
 been received so far though related to the area and boundaries the said timeline then 40 three week time granted for are maintained by Revenue accountability of
the purpose has lapsed Department. concerning officials shall
much earlier. However, one be fixed and a
months time is granted Action plan for rejuvenation of river recommendation will be
further to submit the report Rapti is available on the website of made. Executive Engineer Jal are maintained by Revenue December, 2020. It has
 Nigam and DFO of the Department. been decided that if ATR
 concerned district, has been is not submitted by the
 received so far though three said timeline then
 week's time granted for the accountability of
 purpose has lapsed much concerning officials shall
 earlier. However, one be fixed and a
 month's time is granted recommendation will be
 further to submit the report in made to competent
 terms of the decision taken authority for initiating
 on 28.05.2019. In the disciplinary action
 meantime, the RO, UPPCB of against the delinquent
 the concerned district shall official for not providing
 make inspection of Jata the ATR. Shankar Pokhra situated in
 Mohalla Jatepur (Southern)
 of District Gorakhpur with
 regard to the encroachment. If any, made in Jata
 Shankar Pokhra and submit
 a report to the Monitoring
 Committee in a month. 7. No report from the District Magistrate UPPCB vide his letter dated ATR has been December 31st,
 committee, constituted by (Revenue) 31.07.2019 Requested to Hon'ble Requested from 2020.
 the Monitoring Committee Chairman, Monitoring committee that District Magistrate. It is
 vide its decision taken in the task of Identifying encroachments yet to be received and a
 The meeting dated in the last opportunity for
 28.05.2019, comprising the catchment area of Mansarowar providing the same has
 District Magistrate/ CDO, Pokhra may be assigned to the been extended to
 Executive Engineer Revenue because the documents concerned District
 Irrigation, Executive related to the area and boundaries Magistrate Till 31' 43 Engineer Jal Nigam and DFO are maintained by Revenue December, 2020. It has
 of the concerned district, has Department. been decided that if ATR
 been received so far is not submitted by the
 though three week' time said timeline then
 granted for the purpose has accountability of
 lapsed much earlier. concerning officials
 However, one month's time is shall be fixed and a
 granted further to submit the recommendation will be
 report in made to competent
 terms of the decision taken authority for initiating
 on 28.05.2019. In the disciplinary action
 meantime, the RO, UPPCB against the delinquent
 of the concerned official for not providing
 district shall make the ATR. inspection of Mansarowar
 Pokhra situated in Muza
 Andhiyari Bagh, Pargana
 Haveli, Tehsil Sadar, District
 Gorakhpur with regard to the
 encroachment, if any, made
 in Mansarowar Pokhra and
 submit a report to the
 Monitoring Committee in a
 month. 8 No report from the District Magistrate UPPCB vide his letter ATR has been requested December 31st,
 committee, constituted by (Revenue) and dated31.07.2019. Requested to from District Magistrate. 2020
 the Monitoring Committee Irrigation and Hon'ble Chairman, Monitoring It is yet to be received
 vide its decision taken in the Water Resources committee that the task of identifying and a last Opportunity
 meeting dated 28.05.2019, encroachments in the catchment area for providing the same
 comprising the District of rivers Kakurtha and Hiranyavati has been extended To
 Magistrate/ CDO, Executive may be assigned to the Revenue and concerned District
 Engineer Irrigation, Irrigation & Water Resources Magistrate till 31St
 Executive Engineer Jal Department because the documents December, 2020. It has
 Nigam and DFO of the related to the area and boundaries been decided that if ATR
 concerned district, has been is not submitted by the 44 received so far though three are maintained by Revenue said timeline then
 week' time granted for the Department. accountability of
 purpose has lapsed much concerning officials
 earlier. However, one shall be
 months' time is granted fixed and a
 further to submit the report in recommendation will be
 terms of the decision taken made to competent
 on 28.05.2019. In the authority for
 meantime, the RO, UPPCB of initiating
 the concerned district(s) disciplinary action
 shall make inspection of against the delinquent
 Kakurtha and Haranyavati official for not providing
 rivers in district Kushinagar the ATR
 with regard to the
 encroachments, if any, made
 in the catchment area of
 aforesaid rivers and submit
 a report to the Monitoring
 Committee in a month. Forth
 is purpose, the mean HFL of
 the aforesaid rivers as
 observed in the past 10
 years just before September
 26, 2017 (vide Rule4(2)(vi) of
 the Wetland (Conservation
 and Management) Rules,
 2017, shall be taken into
 consideration. 9 No Report from the District Magistrate UPPCB vide his letter dated ATR has been December 31st,
 committee, Constituted by (Revenue) 31.07.2019 Requested to Hon'ble Requested from 2020.
 the Monitoring Committee Chairman, Monitoring committee that District Magistrate. It. is
 vide its decision taken in the task of Identifying encroachments yet to be received and a
 The meeting dated in the catchment area of Suraha Taal last opportunity for
 28.05.2019, comprising the may be assigned to the Revenue providing the same has
 because the Documents related to the been extended to 45 District Magistrate/CDO, area and boundaries are maintained Concerned District
 Executive Engineer by Revenue Department. The Magistrate till 3151
 Irrigation, Executive administrative control and December, 2020. It has
 Engineer Jal Nigam and DFO management of Surha Taal is with been decided that if ATR
 of the concerned district, has the Forest Department. is not submitted then
 been received so far though accountability of
 three week' time granted for concerning officials
 the purpose has lapsed shall be fixed an a
 much earlier. However, one recommendation will be
 month's time is granted made to competent
 further to submit the report in authority for initiating
 terms of the decision taken disciplinary action
 on 28.05.2019. In the against the delinquent
 meantime, the RO, UPPCB of official for not providing
 the concerned the ATR. week' time granted for the 2407-2020. R.O. Informed that this
 purpose has lapsed much work is not board function
 earlier. DFO Shrawasti Shri
 A.P.Yadav, present in the
 meeting, informed that
 inspite of the information
 sent to the complainant Dr.
 Radhey Mohan Mishra, he
 did not turn up. Even if the
 complainant had not turned
 up, it was incumbent up on
 the committee to submit
 report with respect to the
 ground realities keeping in
 view the contents of the
 complaint made by Dr.
 Radhey Mohan Mishra as
 directed by the Monitoring
 Committee on 28.05.2019. been received so far though 2020. It has been
 three week' time granted for decided that if ATR
 the purpose has lapsed is not submitted by the
 much earlier. However, one said timeline then
 month's time is granted accountability of
 further to submit the report in concerning officials
 terms of the decision taken shall be fixed and
 on 28.05.2019. In the a recommendation will
 meantime, the RO, UPPCB of be made to competent
 the concerned authority for initiating
 district shall make disciplinary action
 inspection of Bakhira lake in against the delinquent
 district Sant Kaagar with official for not providing
 regard to the Encroachment, the ATR. if any, made in Bakhira lake
 and submit a report to the
 Monitoring Committee in a
 month. 12 As prayed by Shri Bipin Related to SDM Kali Jheel is located in Gram Compliance is being
 Kumar Singh, SDM Sohawal, Sohawal, District Panchayat Surwari. Area of this lake done as per directions of
 District Ayodhya, one Ayodhya 25 Hect. Restoration of this lake has the Committee.
 month's further time is been started from 13.05.2020. Total
 granted to submit report with expenditure
 regard to incurred on this work is about Rs. complainant by the July, September, October, November December, 2020. It has
 Secretary of the Monitoring and a last reminder has been issued been decided that if ATR
 Committee inviting his on December 1, 2020. is not submitted by the
 opinion, if any. Shri Harish said timeline then
 Chandra Prajapati, Deputy accountability of
 Commissioner Labor and concerning officials
 Employment, Gonda is shall be fixed and a
 requested to submit a report recommendation will be
 within a month with regard made to competent
 to the project authority for initiating
 Report prepared for disciplinary action
 rejuvenation of river against the delinquent
 manorama, atributary of official for not providing
 river kuano. the ATR. 14 One month's further time is
 allowed to convene a
 meeting of the committee of
 officers of concerned districts
 in terms of the decision of the
 Monitoring Committee dated
 28.05.2019 with regard to
 restoration/rejuvenation of
 river Kalyani and submit a
 status report. 15 None is present from Remote Related to Remote
 Sensing Application Centre Sensing
 to provide assistance to the 49 Monitoring Committee
 keeping in view the factual
 matrix as contained in this
 item of the Agenda. The
 matter is deferred for next
 meeting. Notice be issued to
 ensure presence. 16 DPR for construction of STP Related to Uttar Pradesh Compliance report has been Compliance is being
 in Magahar, district Sant Jal Nigam submitted By Uttar Pradesh Jal ensured as per
 Kabir Nagar has already And SMCG. Nigam vide G59/022/0278/Pa rt2/ directions of the Hon'ble
 been submitted to the Department of Jal 2020, dt. 16.06.2020 and Committee.
 Government Shakti. subsequently an updated
 Status in the matter has been also
 submitted. As per report DPR for I&D
 and STP works for Maghar tow, Distt- Sant Kabir Nagar were sent to NMCG,
 Lucknow vide letter No. 997 dt. 13.08.2019 amounting Rs. 19.88
 Cr.Several observations have been
 received from NMCG vide letter No.
 TE- 12014/1/2019-Tech Cont. NMCG
 dt. 19.09.2019 after examination of
 Aforesaid DPRs. In observations
 major
 observation is "Water quality of River
 Aami has not been provided in the
 DPR,
 SMCG, UP may enclose water quality
 reports of River Aami U/S and D/S of
 the confluence of drain with river to
 assess the effect of pollution
 contribution of the town. In compliance of the above the 50 Samples had been collected and
 analysed and a revised DPR of
 amounting Rs.28.36 crore (including
 O&M for 15 years) for I&D and STP
 works for Maghar
 town, Distt- Sant Kabir Nagar, duly
 incorporating the observations
 received from NMCG has been
 submitted to SMCG, GoUP on dated
 29-09-2020 by Chief Engineer
 (Ganga), U.P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow. concerning officer in the month of December, 2020. It has
 July, September, October, November been decided that if ATR
 and a last reminder has been issued is not submitted by the
 on December 1, 2020 Said timeline then
 accountability of
 concerning officials
 shall be fixed and a
 recommendation will be
 madeto competent
 authority for initiating 51 disciplinary action
 against the delinquent
 official for not providing
 the AIR. 18 Shri R.S.Singh, Project Related to Compliance report has been Compliance is being
 Manager/Executive ConstructionUnit, UP Jal submitted By Uttar Pradesh Jal ensured as per
 Engineer, Construction Unit, Nigam, Gorakhpur Nigam vide G59/022/0278/Part2/ directions of the Hon'ble
 UP Jal Nigam, 2020, dt. 16.06.2020 and it Committee.
 Gorakhpur informs that DPR progress has been updated again in
 shall be submitted by the Novembe 2020. A
 end of this month. Let the brief detail of report is as following :- CEO, GIDA sent the above DPR to
 SMCG Lko. Vide their letter
 no.2408/Adhi-Ni6/CETP/2020-20
 Dt. 2910-2020. 19 Certain reports have already No Action is required. been forwarded to Hon'ble
 NGT, where the matter is sub
 Judice. All pending reports
 shall be forwarded to
 Hon'ble NGT at the earliest. 20 None is present on behalf of Related to ELDECO No Action is required. Monitoring Committee been issued to concerning officer in December, 2020. It has
 indicating the names of the month of July, September, been decided that if ATR
 rivers/water reservoirs, October, November and a last is not submitted by the
 nearby which these reminder has been issued on said timeline then
 December 01, 2020. accountability of 55 wetlands are situated with concerning officials
 respective details shall be fixed and a
 recommendation will be
 made to competent
 authority for initiating
 disciplinary action
 against the delinquent
 official for no providing
 the ATR. finalized. It is aimed to complete the
 work a earliest. 33 Sh. Asish Tiwari, Member Matter related to In this regard Power Department Complied. Secretary, UPPCB states that CPC B/ UP POWER has already issued a notification as
 appropriate decision has Corporation. per spirit of the direction of the
 been taken by the UPPCB in Hon'ble Committee
 respect of separate
 electricity connection for STP,
 ETP and SPs and request
 has also been made to the
 UP State Electricity
 connection and meter for
 STP, ETP and SPs, etc.
 During discussions, Shri.
 S.K. Gupta, Regional
 Director, CPC B also agreed
 that separate electricity
 meter should be provided for
 STP, ETP and SPs, etc so as
 to find out the working
 pattern of industries and 57 check the bypass of STP. Keeping in view the fact that
there is consensus between the CPC B and the UPPCB
with regard to a separate
electricity meter for STP, ETP
and SPs etc. and that the
CPC B is the final authority to
issue a regulatory order, it
shall be appropriate that the
CPC B, considering the
exigency of the matter,
issues appropriate
circulars/orders or
guidelines at its end, making
it mandatory for every
industry to have a separate
electricity connection/meter
for STP, ETP and SPS
etc. Let a
decision be taken by the
CPC B in the matter, so that
there may be any bypass of
STP, ETP and SPS etc by the
industry, which is a common
phenomenon found in the
State of UP till date while
making inspection of the
Industries. We request the
CPC B for issuance of
appropriate
circular/guidelines in the
matter at the earliest, which
being statutory in nature
shall be binding on the
industries and there will be 58 no option to the UP State
 Electricity Board but to issue
 a separate electricity
 connection to every
 industrial unit for the
 purpose. Let action taken report be
 submitted to the Monitoring
 Committee in the next
 meeting. 34(a) None is present from Ambedkar Matter related to Compliance report has been asked from the ATR has been requested from December 31st
 Nagar. Let a Notice be issued to the District Magistrate, department vide letter no- 1174/20-27 S-4-20 District Magistrate. It is yet to be 2020.
 District Magistrate .Ambedkar Ambedkar Nagar but not received. Again reminder letter no. Sr. received and a last opportunity
 Nagar to nominate some officer to 1219/20-27 S. 4-02 (Rt) (NGT)/2019 Dated for providing the same has been
 assist the Monitoring Committee 11.06.2020 has sent. Again several extended to concerned District
 and submit the status report with reminders has been issued to concerning Magistrate
 regard to Bhadona, Durban and officer in the month of July, September, Till 31St December, 2020. It has
 other lakes, if any, of the district October, November and a last reminder has been decided that if ATR is not
 been issued on December 1, 2020 submitted by the said timeline
 then accountability
 Of concerning officials shall
 be fixed and a recommendation
 will be made to competent
 authority for initiating
 disciplinary action against
 the delinquent official
 for not providing the ATR. 34(b) Let the action taken report be Matter related to Compliance report has been asked from the ATR has been Requested from December 31st
 submitted with regard to Tilodiki District Magistrate department vide letter no- 1174/20-27 S 4-02 District Magistrate. It is yet to be 2020.
 Ganga by the District Magistrate, Ayodhya (Rt) (NGT)/2019 Dated 11.06.2020 has sent. received and a last opportunity
 Ayodhya in the next meeting. Again several reminders has been issued to for providing the same has been
 concerning officer in the month of July, extended to concerned District
 September, October, November and a last Magistrate Till 31 2020. '
 reminder has been issued on December 1, December, It has been decided
 2020 that if ATR is not submitted by
 the said timeline then
 accountability of concerning
 officials shall be fixed and a
 recommendation will be made to
 competent authority for
 initiating disciplinary action 59 against the delinquent official
 for not providing the ATR. 35 Report has already been ---- Complied. submitted. It shall be looked into
 and considered in the next
 meeting. 36 As prayed by RO, UPPCB,
 Lucknow, a month's further time is
 granted to submit report. The
 matter shall again be considered in
 the next meeting. 37 & 38 As prayed by the Chief Engineer, Matter related to Compliance report has been asked from the ATR has been requested from December 31st
 Lucknow Lucknow Development department vide letter no- 1174/20--27 concerned officials. it is yet to 2020
 Development Authority, three Authority, S.4 .20 (Rt)(NGT)/2019 Dated 05.06.2020 but be received and a last
 weeks' further time is allowed to not received. Again reminder letter no. Sr. - opportunity for providing the
 submit action taken report in view 1219/20-27 Sr.-02(Rt) (NGT)/2019 Dated same has been extended to
 of the complaint of Shri Ram 11.06.2020 has been sent. Again several Concerned District Magistrate
 Prakash, Advocate, High Court. as reminders has been issued to concerning till 31st December, 2020. It
 prayed by the Chief Engineer, officer in the has been decided that if ATR
 Lucknow Development Authority, Month of July, September, October, November is not submitted by the
 two weeks' further time is allowed and a last reminder has been issued on Said timeline then
 to submit report in terms of the December 1, 2020 Accountability of concerning
 earlier decision of the Monitoring officials shall be fixed and a
 Committee dated 08.07.2019. recommendation will be made
 to competent
 Authority for initiating
 Disciplinary action against the
 delinquent official for not
 providing the ATR. 39/40 None is present on behalf of Nagar Matter related Compliance report has been submitted by Action has been
 Nigam, Ayodhya to assist the To Nagar Nigam Municipal Corporation Ayodhya. As per report Complied as per instruction of
 Monitoring Committee. Let a notice Ayodhya Solid waste from drains had been removed at the UPSWMMC.
 be issued to Nagar Nigam, that time. The work is complete.
 Ayodhya to submit status report with regard to items No. 39 and 40 of the Agenda. 41 Shri Atulveer Chopra, Advocate Matter related to A detail report has been received in this
 representing the Gorakhpur Gorakhpur Development matter from Gorakhpur Development
 Development Authority appeared Authority Authority is annexed hereby. A perusal of the
 and argued on the report suggests detail submission by the
 applications/representations Authority on each point as indicated by
 made for Modification of our Hon'ble Committee and it has been prayed by
 recommendation s in the Final 60 Report of Ramgarh lake. He GDA that GDA submits an undertaking as
submits that due to following: the Supreme Court as well as NGT. Supreme Court in its NGT-313/81-7-2020-44 (Writ)/2016 TC-1, dt; 03.07.2020, directed the
 order has also mentioned that Secretary of Environment Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretar0079 of Urban
 Department shall be answerable in case of default. The Development/Panchati Raj/Irrigation & Water Resources/Department of
 Secretaries to Government concerned shall be Infrastructure & Industrial Development/Energy/Medical Education
 responsible for monitoring the progress and Department of Uttar Pradesh to comply the said order and submit the
 implementation of above directions. Not constructing compliance report accordingly.
 these STPs/CETPs for lack of budgetary support from
 NMCG certainly is not a valid excuse. The Chief Copy of the said GO dt; 03.07.2020 is attached as Annexure -1
 Secretary may he directed to ensure sufficient
 budgetary resources either from Government of India or  A meeting was held on dt; 09.07.2020 under the chairmanship of chief
 from State budget within a month, so that work on these secretary, U.P. Government with the officials of the concerned departments of
 STPs/CETPs should commence immediately. NOT has U.P. The relevant portion of minutes are as follows :- Copy of the said letter dt; 18.09.2020 is attached as Annexure-4

 Executive Officer, Nagar Panchayat, Maghar vide its letter dt; 21.09.2020,
 informed that the land for establishment of STP has been identified at Village-
 Mohala Gandhi Ashram. Maghar and estimate has been prepared & send to
 UP Government by UP Jal Nigam. Meanwhile for the treatment of wastewater
 of drain, a plan for bio-remediation has been included in 14th Finance
 Commission and tender has been preparing for the same. Copy of the said letter dt; 21.09.2020 is attached as Annexure-5 67  For establishment of CETP at GIDA, Gorakhpur, a meeting dt; 27.07.2020 was
 held wider free chairmanship of Commissioner, Gorakhpur with the officials of
 concerned departments. Copy of the said meeting minutes dt; 27.07.2020 is attached as Annexure-6
  The Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga has informed vide his
 letter dam: 01.09.2020 that the proposed capacity of the CETP as plan is on
 the higher side md the project needs to be implemented in phased manner. In
 compliance of these directions, UPPCB has issued a letter dt: 21.09.2020 to
 CEO, GIDA, Gorakhpur for the submission of the revised DPR to National
 Mission for Clean Ganga. Copy of the Letter dt: 01.09.2020 & dt: 21.09.2020 are Annexure-7a & 7b

  The Executive Officer, Nagar Palika Parishad, Khalilabad vide its letter dated: /1092020 has informed that the land for establishment of S.T.P. has been
 identified at Village- Mohala Gandhi Ashram, Maghar and estimate has been
 prepared & send to UP Government by UP Jal Nigarn. Meanwhile for the
 treatment of wastewater of the drain, a plan for bio-remetii2Tion has been
 included in 14th Finance Commission and tender has been preparing for the
 same. Copy of the said letter dt: 21.091020 is already available as Annexure-5

  A meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief secretary, U.P. 3. All the municipal corporations were supposed to abide Government on 09.07.2020 with the officials of concerned departments of U.P.
 by SWM Rules, 2016 by 1.04.2020. Any violation in The concerning portion of minutes are as follows :- Copy of the said letter dt; 30.07.2020 is already available at Annexure-8a

  UPPCB vide its letter dt. 16.09.2020 has directed the Municipal Commissioner,
 Gorakhpur to submit the current status of establishment of MSW Processing
 Plant/Secure Land Fill Site. Copy of the said letter dt; 16.09.2020 is attached as Annexure-8b

  UPPCB vide its letters asked the permission from Government of UP to file
 prosecution under section- 5 of Environment (Protection) Act, 1982 against the
 concerned Municipal Commissioner of Gorakhpur. Copy of the said letters are attached as Annexure-9a,9h & 9c

  B.R.D. Medical College has 950 Bed capacity and at present Non-COVID 4. This area is very sensitive from JE/AE point of view. B.M.W. (250 Kg per day) & COVID-19 B.M.W. (700 Kg per day) is generated
 Besides BRD Medical college is the most important by this medical college, which is disposed off by C.B.W.T.F. (M/s MPCC,
 medical center in this area catering to medical Khalilabad, Santkabir Nagar). The B.R.D. Medical college has authorization
 requirements of large part of Eastern UP and Northern valid up to July, 2020 under BMW Rules, 2016 and has applied for
 Bihar. The Primary cause of JE/AE is pollution. Hence authorization on date- 05.10.2020 which is under process.
 it is most important that BRD medical college must
  UPPCB vide it's letter dt. 01.10.2019 has imposed the environmental
 follow BMW Rules, 2016. More so there is an influx of
 compensation of Rs-4.4115 Crore against the Medical College in compliance
 COVID-19 patients which will increase in the coming
 of Hon'ble NGT order passed in O.A. No. 116/2014 Meera Shukla Vs.
 months Principal Secretary Medical Education shall
 Municipal Corporation Gorakhpur & Others on dt. 17.12.2018, dt.07.03.2019,
 ensure that in such critical times, BRD Medical College
 dt. 29.04.2019 & dt. 27.09.2019. follows all the BMW norms. Any negligence on the part
 of concerned officers may be dealt with strictly and  In compliance to UPPCB letter dt. 01.10.2019, the B.R.D. Medical College had
 responsibility may be fixed. not submitted the imposed EC. A letter dt 29.09.2020 from UPPCB has
 already been sent to the District Magistrate Gorakhpur for recovery of
 Environmental Compensation as per the land-revenue. Copy of the said letter dt 29.09.2020 is attached as Annexure-10

 The Chief Engineer, UP Jal Nigam, Gorakhpur vide it's report dated: 30.09.2020 5. There are a large number of drains going untapped in has informed that-
 Ramgarh Taal. The state would do well to plan STPs 69 for these drains. As an interim measure bioremediation  Out of 24 drains, 06 major drains which were falling directly in Ramgarh
 /phytoremediation of all these drains shall be started Tal have been intercepted, diverted and being treated in 02 numbers STPs
 immediately. (15 MLD & 30 MLD Capacity). Rest 18 minor drains are falling directly in
 Ramgarh Tal. Out of this, 18 minor drains, 07 are falling directly in Ramgarh
 Tal from it's eastern side having total discharge as 5.463 MLD, which will
 be taken care under on going project of "Gorakhpur Sewerage Scheme, Zone
 A-1 Southern Part Under "AMRUT" upto 06/2021.
  Remaining 11 minor drains having total discharge (1.357 MLD) falling
 directly in Ramgarh Tal from it's northern side are proposed to be
 intercepted, diverted under sent (project (Amounting rupees 34.82 Crore) of
 "Construction of earthen bund and intercepting sewer line at northern side
 of Ramgarh Tal from Paidlevgani to RKBK Maruti Showroom" approval of
 which is awaited from Government of UP. Under this project, discharge of
 above 11 drains will be treated at 30 MLD existing STP.
  Local Jal Nigam Office does not have any experience/expertise of bio-
 remediation/phyto-remediation hence it will be better that bio-
 remediation/phyto-remediation of untapped drains falling directly in
 Ramgarh Tal lake should also be executed by NEERI, Nagpur through
 RECUS Lucknow as an interim/short term measure. Copy of the said Jal Nigam Report dt; 30.09.2020 is attached as
 Annexure-11

  UPPCB is continuously monitoring the industries in the catchment area of Aami 6. As far as polluting industries are concerned, we have River. been informed by SPCB that production has been Status of Compensation imposed and Recovered from the industries in the
 stopped in such units, prosecution has been catchment area of Aami River is as follows: Chikitsalay), revenue against the M/s B. R. D.
 Gorakhpur Medical College & Hospital. Copy of the said letter dt; 29.09.2020 is attached as
 Annexure-12

4 M/s Bharti Rs. Nil  UPPCB vide its letters dated: 5 M/s Mother Shree Rs. 8.4 Nil  UPPCB vide its letters dated: 6 M/s Alkan e Rs. 4.25 Nil  UPPCB vide its different
 Con stru ction Lacs Letter
 Pvt L td., F L- dated:17.12.2019,19.05.2020
 1 , Sector 13 , &14.07.2020 has requested to
 (i11 )A, (h District Magistrate, Gorakhpur
 for issuing RC to recover the
 imposed EC as per the land- revenue against the industry. Copy of the said letters are
 attached as Annexure-15
7 M/s Burnet Rs. Rs. 0.5  UPPCB vide its different
 Pharmaceutical 12.875 Lacs Letter dated:17.12.2019,
 Pvt. Ltd., FL-1, Lacs 19.05.2020 & 14.07.2020
 Sector 13, has requested to District 71 GIDA, Magistrate, Gorakhpur for
 Gorakhpur issuing RC to recover the
 imposed EC as per the land- it has been mentioned by SPCB that the consent to
 establish an industry will be given only after prior izns'k esa m0iz0 iznw"k.k fu;a=.k cksMZ ls fcuk LFkkiukFkZ vukifRr izek.k i= izkIr fd;s jsM ,oa
 groundwater clearance. It is recommended that since it vkWjsat dSVsxjh ds iznw"k.kdkjh izÑfr ds m|ksxksa dks fo|`r la;kstu u fn;k tk;sA m0iz0 iznw"k.k
 is an interdepartmental matter, specific instructions fu;a=.k cksMZ ls LFkkiukFkZ lgefr izkIr gksus ds mijkUr fo|qr foHkkx }kjk jsM ,oa vkWjsat dSVx
 s jh
 may be issued to all the departments by Chief
 m|ksxksa dks vLFkk;h fo|qr la;kstu rRi'pkr~ m|ksxksa }kjk lapkyukFkZ lgefr izkIr gksus ds mijkUr
 Secretary. m|ksxksa dks LFkk;h fo|qr la;kstu iznku fd;k tk;sA bl gsrq m0iz0 iznw"k.k fu;a=.k cksMZ }kjk
 iznw"k.kdkjh m|ksxksa dh lwph mtkZ foHkkx dks miyC/k djk;h tk;s rFkk mDr laca/k esa fuos'k fe=
 iksVZy ij vko';d O;oLFkk lqfuf'pr dh tk;sA mDr dk;Zokgh fcyEcreQ ,d ekg esa iw.kZ dj
 yh tk;sA 73 In compliance of aforesaid directions, UPPCB vide it's letter dt: 29.07.2020 &
 dt. 16.09.2020 the list of Red, Orange Category Industry has already been sent
 to Principal Secretary, Department of Energy, U.P.
 Copy or the said letter dt: 29.07.2020 & dt. 16.09.2020 are attached as
 Annexure-19a & 19b. The meeting minutes of the State Level River Rejuvenation Committee (RRC) held on 8. UPPCB has informed that detailed action plans related dt: 26.06.2020 has been uploaded on the State Environmental Portal and a copy of
 to polluted river stretches of Ghagra, Rapti, Vanilla, the said minutes is attached as Annexure-20.
 Sai, Saryti, Ami and Tamsa have been prepared and
 approved by River Rejuvenation Committee. The
 implementation of these plans by District Environment
 Committee at District level and River Rejuvenation
 Committee at the State level may be continuously
 monitored. The minutes of the State level Committee
 may be uploaded on the State Environmental Portal
 and a copy may be made available to this committee. 9. We have been assured by Additional Chief Secretary  Special Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources Department, UP
 (Irrigation) that the joint committee report on wetlands government vide it's letter dt; 28.09.2020 has directed to concerned
 will be passed in the meeting on 15.06.2020 and made department for compliance of Hon'ble NGT order dt; 27.09.2019.
 available to the committee. This committee would send Copy of said the letter dt; 28.09.2020 is attached as Annexure-21
 a supplementary report on that after getting that report
 and studying it" 10. Tihura drain needs to be cleaned and obstructions, if  In compliance of Hon'ble NGT order dated: 24.09.2019, UPPCB vide it's letter
 any, there to removed. dated: 01.01.2020, following directions has been issued to District Magistrate,
 Ayodhya under section 5 of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986:- authored by Shri Jacob Koshy titled "More river stretches are now

critically polluted). The Tribunal has already laid down compensation

regime for failure to take remedial action but the same is also not been

paid. If State authorities behave in such irresponsible manner, it is

hardly conducive to the rule of law. Thus, the erring officers need to

be proceeded against for their failure. Similar action needs to be

taken against erring officers for failure to comply with the MSW

Rules, 2016 in terms of order of this Tribunal in O.A. No. 606/2018. The action plans required to be prepared by the River Rejuvenation

Committee in terms of order passed in O.A. No. 673/2018 need to be

duly executed. We are also informed that an action plan has already been 78 prepared for remediation of Ami and other rivers in 2019 which is available

on the website of the UPPCB. The same has been duly approved by the

River Rejuvenation Committee of UP in the meeting held on 17.07.2019. If

it is so, the action needs to be taken promptly in accordance with the said

plan. The execution of plan may be timebound and supported by the

necessary budget. Persons accountable may be specified. The Oversight

Committee may have meeting within one month from today with the River

Rejuvenation Committee to be coordinated by UP PCB to take stock of

situation on implementation of draft action plan. The Oversight Committee

may give report before next hearing particularly on following issues: 22. We direct that the Chief Secretary, UP may in particular oversee

the execution of river rejuvenation plans for Rivers Ami, Rapti,

Rohani, Saryu and Ghagra wherein the timelines for rejuvenation of

different components may be fixed with necessary budgetary support

and designating the authorities/officers responsible for it. Such

projects cannot be delayed on the pretext of funding by the NMCG in 79 view of the fact that preventing discharge of pollutants in River Ganga

 or other water bodies a criminal offence under the Water Act and even

 authorities are liable to be prosecuted for such offences in the light

 of the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran

 Suraksha v. Union of India3 . Compliance of the said judgement is not

 dependent on funding by the NMCG. Further reports may be filed within three months by the Chief

 Secretary UP and the Oversight Committee e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF

 and not in the form of Image PDF. A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary U.P.,

 Secretaries Irrigation Department, Urban Development Department,

 Environment Department, U.P., CPC B and State PCB by e-mail for

 compliance. List for further consideration on 17.05.2021. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 S.K. Singh, JM

 Dr. Nagin Nanda, EM

 January 12, 2021 O.A. No. 116/2014 A 3 (2017) 5 SCC 326 80