Update: KiranaPro founder Deepak Ravindran clarified that the incident was an internal data breach. He alleged that now-fired employee intentionally deleted the server logs. He assured that all consumer data remains intact.

“After careful investigation, we conclude that this was not a hack. No external party penetrated our ordering or payment systems, exploited vulnerabilities, or bypassed security protocols. Our external security posture remains intact, and there is no evidence of any unauthorized access from outside the organization,” he added.

He said the company has launched a forensic review to assess the impact of the data loss and provide additional training on data governance. He also said they are strengthening security systems to prevent unauthorized access in the future.

Original Story: KiranaPro, a rising player in India’s quick-commerce sector, has suffered a massive cyberattack that compromised both its operations and user data. “We were the victims of a devastating and deeply targeted cyberattack,” said the founder of KiranaPro, referring to the data loss—including sensitive user information—that occurred in their private GitHub repository, that was connected to Amazon Web Services (AWS)..

Despite the cyberattack, KiranaPro’s website remains active. However, a banner at the top of the site reads: “Temporary downtime due to a security update.” The app, which operates on the Government’s Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), was founded in 2024 as a platform that allows users to buy groceries from nearby small stores. The cyberattack comes at a time when the startup was preparing to expand its business to 100 more cities .

According to the founder, the data loss included:

Core application data contains essential information to run the application, along with sensitive user data. EC2 servers refer to Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud—a rented virtual computer that runs the startup’s applications.

The hacking likely occurred around May 24–25, according to KiranaPro’s CTO, Saurav Kumar. The quick-commerce company said the incident came to light on May 26, when executives noticed that hackers had accessed the company’s root accounts on AWS and GitHub.

The startup used a multi-factor authentication code generated by Google Authenticator. However, the code was changed and then used to log into AWS, resulting in a breach of its EC2 data. The attackers exploited this access to infiltrate the company’s virtual servers, explained CTO Kumar.

In a Reddit post comment, founder Deepak Ravindran revealed that GitHub’s support team has been slow in sharing log data and IP (Internet Protocol) timestamps. “GitHub cooperation is key to identifying the actor behind this,” he added. Ravindran also made posts on X and Reddit seeking help from the online community, especially former GitHub employees, to expedite traceability and gain access to security logs.

He further stated that a First Information Report (FIR) has been filed, including against former employees who allegedly hadn’t submitted their GitHub credentials. “It was deliberate. And it was personal. Our servers were breached, critical infrastructure was deleted, and sensitive customer data was compromised,” read Ravindran’s post on X.

KiranaPro is not the first company to face cyberattacks and data breaches. Last month, Adidas suffered a cyberattack that exposed sensitive user information. Similarly, Marks & Spencer was hacked. In November 2020, hackers accessed the personal information of more than 20 million BigBasket customers .

These are only a few of many such incidents. We remain unsure of where this stolen data goes—and how it will be used or misused.

For example, an anonymous hacker was found selling data of 31 million users through a simple chatbot on Telegram. The leaked data from Star Health included not just names and addresses, but also tax details, copies of ID cards, medical diagnoses, and test results.

Because notorious hackers are rarely arrested or prosecuted, questions around the legal liability of private companies for maintaining vulnerable security systems are more important than ever. Under Section 43A and Section 72A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, companies may be held liable for failing to protect user data and for the unlawful disclosure of personal information.

Note: The first three paragraphs are added for clarity based on editorial inputs on 09/06/2025 at 14:45 pm.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event