SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: SCAM ALERT - Domino's 30 Minutes or Free Pizza Guarantee
DATE: 2022-09-10
SCORE: 120
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xauspd/scam_alert_dominos_30_minutes_or_free_pizza/

--- POST TEXT ---

I ordered a Pizza online via the Domino's website. The pizza was ordered under the 30 minutes or free guarantee. Somehow, it took unusually long for the pizza to bake breaching the time guarantee at the store itself. Ultimately, with all the delays accounted, the pizza reached my doorstep in some 47-50 minutes. 

As per the Domino's guarantee I was ready to receive the pizza for free, however the delivery boy on arrival tells me that the I will not be issued a free pizza. I assured him that I was aware of the Domino's T&amp;C (Maximum Domino's liability is ₹300), which is scandalous in itself due to the wording of the offer, and hence wished to claim only what was due to me. 

To this he tells me, that it will be credited back to me only in my Domino's wallet and not as a discount on this order itself. I refused to accept this since the T&amp;C mentioned this nowhere. A minor kerfuffle ensued. I talked to the Store Manager. Even he refused to budge and rather went ahead and cancelled my order.

Where is the scam?

Since the pizza was late, I was supposed to receive THIS PIZZA ORDER for free (albeit up to ₹300 only) and NOT THE NEXT ONE. If they credit me ₹300 in my Domino's wallet, I will only be able to use the amount on my NEXT PIZZA ORDER, which only means more sales for them. This was not a part of the contract. Say, they do this only to help their logistics, NOWHERE IS THIS MENTIONED IN THEIR T&amp;C. So why should I be forced to accept the Domino's cash. Additionally, the customer's perceived value of the money is Domino's Wallet might not be the same as them getting an Instant Discount. Why should the customer be at loss?

This is essentially the same as me ordering a Pizza now and paying up on my next order. To Domino's I ask this, would you be okay with that?

P. S. - I have raised a complaint with Domino's itself. I know a lot might not come out of it. They might even quietly change things at the backend, but I just want to expose the unscrupulous practices of Domino's India.