Users on social media platform Reddit recently called out food delivery platform Swiggy for inflating delivery distances to overcharge customers by levying additional delivery charges.

Earlier this month, Swiggy was fined Rs 35,000 by a Hyderabad Court for misreporting delivery distance and overcharging a customer with a Swiggy One membership, The Times of India reported . The complaint filed by the customer, Emmadi Suresh Babu, alleged that while ordering food from a restaurant, Swiggy inflated the delivery distance from 9.7 kilometres to 14 kilometres charging him a delivery fee of Rs 103 despite his membership benefits. In its ruling, the court ordered the platform to refund Rs 350 plus 9% interest from the filing date and the delivery charge to the complainant. Additionally, it also directed Swiggy to pay Rs 5,000 for mental distress and Rs 5,000 for litigation costs and directed it to stop indulging in this practice. The food delivery platform was also instructed to pay Rs 25,000 as punitive damages to the Consumer Welfare Fund of the Ranga Reddy District Commission in Hyderabad.

Many Reddit users have also called out the platform for the “unethical” practice. Customers reported that Swiggy and Zomato display inconsistent distances and outlets for the same restaurant, encouraging orders from locations farther away.

The delivery distance metric was also altered in the images below, indicating a difference of 1.8 kilometres.

Besides this, alarmed by the high bill amount despite a heavy discount, upon inspecting his order, one user found that Swiggy had levied a delivery fee of Rs 83. With a delivery distance of roughly 6.4 kilometres, the user claimed that being a Swiggy One member, ideally the delivery charge on his order within a distance under seven kilometres would be waived off. However, he later realised that the restaurant distance on the app had increased to 8.1 kilometres.

Launched in 2021, Swiggy One is an exclusive membership program aiming to offer users unlimited benefits and discounts across restaurants and orders on Instamart, Genie, or Dineout. As part of its ‘One Privileges’ feature, the platform partners up with companies like Yatra offering free seat selection, and Disney+Hotstar offering a Rs 150 discount on a three-month subscription plan, among other benefits. Notably, users are entitled to receive unlimited free deliveries on orders above Rs 199 from restaurants located within a seven kilometer distance. As per the app, free delivery extends to delivery fees, late-night surcharges, and surge fees that may be applied during high demand, bad weather, or special occasions.

The membership plan is priced at Rs 1,199 for three months and pre-existing users can extend the plan at Rs 39 for another three months, as per the app. With social media users highlighting the app’s practice of increasing the distance displayed to more than seven kilometres to charge a delivery fee, the benefits accrued by purchasing the Swiggy One membership come into question.

In October 2023, the platform launched Swiggy One Lite , marketing it as a ‘new and affordable version of Swiggy One’ initially priced at Rs 99 for three months.

Similarly, in 2017, Zomato launched its exclusive dine-out and social drinking membership plan Zomato Gold in India – wherein members could avail perks such as availing a select number of dishes/drinks every time they went to any of Zomato’s partner restaurants – following a successful run in UAE and Portugal.

Currently, the plan offers free delivery for orders above Rs 199 from restaurants located within seven kilometres and a 30% offer discount across various partner restaurants, according to the app.

To gain some clarity on Swiggy’s stance on the issue, MediaNama reached out to the food delivery platform with more questions and is awaiting their response.

We will update the post as soon as we hear from them.

In November 2024, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) found the food delivery platforms guilty of violating antitrust laws and favouring select restaurants. The probe was triggered by a 2021 complaint filed by the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) flagging issues like deep discounts, customer data masking, private labels, etc carried out by such platforms.

Earlier in 2022, the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) disclosed that the National Consumer Helpline registered over 3,631 and 2,828 grievances against Swiggy and Zomato respectively. Within these, customers complained of issues such as disparity between the price and quantity of food received versus what was shown on the platform, inconsistency in delivery times, and the lack of a mechanism to discern genuine reviews from fake ones, among others.

Besides these complaints, the platforms’ quick commerce ventures Instamart and Blinkit have also been subject to customer accusations of delivering underweight and low-quality groceries , selling products without expiration dates , and falsely advertising ’10 minutes or less’ delivery time .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event