SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] From a Christian: Unfair Minority Appeasement is the main reason for rise of Hindu Fundamentalism
DATE: 2015-09-13
SCORE: 217
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3kp18r/np_from_a_christian_unfair_minority_appeasement/

--- POST TEXT ---

I belong to the Syriac orthodox christian family. I was brought up in an upper middle class household in Chennai. Studied in Sishya and then Loyola, both christian institutions under the christian quota. Now work in Mumbai. Got admitted in Canada for higher studies and will be moving in a couple of months.

Recent meat ban had me thinking a lot. This was the first time I realized that minority appeasement is partly to blame for the majority community loosing trust in secularism. The BJP appeased dharmic minorities while Congress appeased Abrahamic ones. In both cases the majority, more specifically the meat eating OBC-General category Hindus, were the adversary.

I always had trouble with narratives of the Hindu right wing which demonizes abrahamic minorities, questioning their patriotism and painting everybody with the same brush. The newspapers reinforced the views. But what I was missing was the other side. 

A side that was treated unfair and as a step-child right after partition. Nehruvian socialism in the name of preventing a hindu version of pakistan, appeasing the remaining muslim nobility and curbing down influence of political rivals among Hindu mahasabhites, rolled out policies that was largely unfair to the Hindu community. 

It was well known that this resentment would soon explode but this explosion was prolonged by incentivizing one hindu caste against the other in the name of reservations to disunite them. Take for instance the violent protests against the Mandal commission by General category students. A group of OBC and Forward caste members sensed that this would break the unity of the Hindu community and immediately diverted the issue to Ram Temple which reminded them of their common faith. 

This triggered hot heads in the muslim community to initiate riots in many parts of the country including Mumbai. This united the Hindu community and gave a foothold for the Hindu right wing to step on. The looser in this series where those license raj operators who misused the banner of secularism to loot the resources and suppress the masses. 

Though I don't agree wholly with Arun Shourie, many of his criticism of Indian secularism and double standards from the minority community are spot on. Something we as responsible members of the minority should reflect upon because it is unfair to countrymen of the majority religion. Ideally we should have rectified these unfair policies before the Hindu community had awaken or erupted to protest against them.

In Kerala, fortunes from hindu temples are nationalized for benefit of all communities while those from Churches or Mosques are tax exempt. And with a little bit of innovation they are subsidized unfairly and many a times tax deductibles. 

The church in my hometown is offered free electricity by panchayat while the local hindu residents protested against electricity board cutting connection to temple celebrations due to negligence from Government appointed temple authorities. Under Congress-Muslim League rule it is very obvious fact here in Kerala that the beneficiaries are not going to be the Hindu community at large, excluding land owning Nair elite who traditionally sided with Congress over the communists. 

Another example, we in the christian community like to boast about being charitable when in reality most of our institutions run with government money and/or as a continuation of the illegit privileges like free land alloted to us during Colonial rule or by the Secular parties which tried to appease us. Even the so called billions of dollars in aid (that comes with strings attached) is a tiny portion to revenue harvested through donations or from political parties in return for favors (endorsement or votes). The so called aid is peanuts compared to what the west looted from us in the name of colonialism. To read about the real face of Mother Teresa and foreign donations please refer works of Christopher Hitchens. Mr. Shourie has also documented these with evidences which alarmed me.

Take education for another example, Shourie takes the example of St. Stephens but ignores the scams occuring down south in CMC, Loyola or worse the christian run institutions in Andhra Pradesh. Coming from a well to do family, I never deserved the seats reserved for Christians in Loyola over a more worthy Hindu candidate from a poorer background. Especially when you consider that the major portion of the funding is being paid by Hindu tax payers. Add to that there are now more complications on RTE in states like Karnataka where the majority community is disincentivized from starting educational institutions. This makes groups like Ramakrishna mission apply for minority status. 

The next issue Shourie mentions was about 'soul harvesters'. Orthodox never proselytized and Catholics stopped proselytizing long ago. The only new members received in our church are from martial alliances with females largely from other christian denominations. The explosion in Christian population in Kerala was due to Portuguese intervention in the coasts and British intervention in the hills where "opportunists" from trading and peasant classes converting to get better social standing and trade ties. Whereas the only way to get into the orthodox church was being born into it or marrying your way into it. The orthodox community lost many followers to European missionary sponsored denominations due to wealth and power inequalities.

The present evangelists are of the worst kind, baptists from backward regions of America. As a matter of fact, it is not the Hindus who convert to their cash filled fold, it is mostly the poorer members of catholic and orthodox churches who are lured by flowing money. They spread hatred against "idol worship" and "False gods". Claim that followers of other faiths are misled by demons. No, this isnt exclusive to Hindu gods. They hate people who also worship statues of Jesus. And the demons they are referring to also include Mother mary and lists of saints. In the northeastern parts of our country, they encourage terrorism and separatism. This is as bad as what Pakistan sponsored groups do in Kashmir but only that it doesn't get the same limelight.

I had a direct encounter with a few of those in divinity classes. Some of them were converts with hindu sounding names from Coastal Andhra and Tamil Nadu. With the kind of religious filth they are spreading, I'm sure they will get into violent conflicts with other christian denominations before they get into conflicts with hindu or muslim community. 

The problem Shourie had was not with all minorities but those that were aggressive. He never complains about Parsi, Jain or Buddhist minorities. But he does the mistake of painting all abrahamic minorities in one brush. The difference between a Jacobite from Kerala and a converted protestant tribal from Northeast is far more than that of the Jacobite to a Nair. The Jacobite is closer to the 'ideal minority' of Parsis and not the Turkish hordes that pillaged North India. Shourie is short sighted to realize that. 

I brought the ideal minority as Indian Americans are considered an Ideal minority in the USA. It would be wrong to accuse all Hindu sects of bio-terrorism or aggressive conversions based on the acts of OSHO or ISKCON. Read about Salmonella poisoning in the US or about how ISKCON allegedly tries to spread their faith by defaming christianity. That is an exact mirror to how christian missionaries spread hatred against ancestral faiths of tribals to convert them. This is just wrong and would only increase conflict in a low income country like India. 

Some historical revisionists in the name of secularism, like to portray islam and christianity as saviors to lower castes. This is far from the truth. I remember advises from parents about the purity of 'our race'. About our kind being fair skinned tall christians who landed on the shores of Kerala from Syria with St. Thomas before Christianity reached Europe. When I asked 'what about that dark person in the family' he mentioned we interbred occasionally with Namboodris who are the highest caste among Hindus. This shows that casteism is still alive in the Christian community although missionaries claim christianity as a way to escape faults of Indian culture. 

The story of St. Thomas is questionable. We mostly came as refugees fleeing Arab invasions or as traders. If the Hindu Kings were as stuck up as the Roman Catholics who refused to take in members of Eastern Orthodox into their country, we would have either been forced to change our faith or remained stranded in the ocean. 

My parents told me that they can tolerate a madama (european) or a high caste hindu/muslim girl but never a dark skinned christian girl or a low caste women as it would spoil our genes. The paradox arrived when I was attracted to a fair skinned Thiyya mallu (low caste hindu) but she said it right in my face that her family hates our kind. Living in a metro, I realised that it is in the marriage market where the truth about our divisions are magnified. That is when our archaic tribal instincts come out even if we pretend to be modern on the outside, superficially. 

Throughout our history in Kerala, we were more than safe, we prospered to become one of the wealthiest communities in India. The Kings made sure the trading communities were treated with respect. Despite being Hindu theocracies, the Hindu kings allowed us to even spread the faith and even funded our festivities, something which Catholics denied the Orthodox back in Europe. 

The history of Malabar was filled with infighting between various Nair dynasties. Various 'Rajaswoms' under Nairs which were many a times financed by Christian and Muslim traders fought against opposing Nair clans. While the Namboodris (brahmins) and the peasants (ezhavas) kept distance and sided with the winning party. The Nairs who lost were left to be brutally impaled or degraded into peasantry, i.e. lower castes. While peasants who were chosen to be soldiers in the winning Nair raiding parties were elevated to higher statuses and continued to harass their former peasant caste peer. This system was pretty much the same as the Church controlled Medieval European four tier system before industrial era. The only part of recent history more devastating than wars between Nair kingdoms was the invasion of Tipu Sultan which not only hurt the Hindu community but cleansed the region of the Christian minority who emigrated to Thrissur under the patronage of the British and the Travancore King. 

Infighting between muslim traders and christian traders reached peak levels during the conflicts between European and Arab traders each of whom wanted to secure monopoly. The Christian and Jewish traders who influenced the Hindu king of Cochin wanted him to side with the European trading partners. While the Muslim mappilas who ran the King of Calicut's navy, sided with the Arabs. The King of Calicut would later be betrayed by the local muslim population during the invasions of Tipu Sultan which ended in failure. This consolidated European domination of North Kerala while the state of Travancore remained unaffected. This left Christians with an economic advantage that continues to this date. This advantage helped my ancestors get a job in the railway in Madras. 

Fast forward to 21st Century, with the present attitude of our community leaders who urge for more power, sheep and money, the majority community would see us as ungrateful folks who cry wolf no matter how hard the majority tries to make us feel one of them. No, not everyone is like that. If I didn't read sensationalized news articles and just limited myself to my friend circle, the only differences I would cling on to would be on linguistic lines. Even though we speak in English, I hang out with mallus wherever I go. 

If there is anything my positive experience with the majority community has ever thought me, it is to put my country above religion. It is plain wrong to expect more from the majority community, unless we put our own house in order first.