The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), which comes under the aegis of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), issued an alert to religious pilgrims and tourists on April 19 about “online booking scams impersonating religious institutions and tourist services” through a press release .

“These frauds are being perpetrated through fake websites, deceptive social media pages, Facebook posts, and paid advertisements on search engines like Google,” the press release read.

An Uttarakhand-based travel agency had recently highlighted that such booking scams by “dubious travel agencies” are “increasing day by day” due to widening demand and supply gaps.

According to the MHA, the scammers create a “professional-looking but fake” websites, social media profiles, and WhatsApp accounts under the pretence of offering various services. The Government cited helicopter booking for Kedarnath Chaar Dhaam, guest house and hotel bookings for pilgrims, online cab/taxi service bookings, and holiday packages along with religious tours as examples of services being offered by such scammers.

“Unsuspecting individuals, upon making payments through these portals, often realise they have been duped when no confirmation or service is received, and the contact numbers go unreachable,” the MHA noted in the press release.

Uttarakhand-based travel agency, eUttaranchal stated that the high demand for helicopter bookings is allowing scammers to take advantage of pilgrims by creating fake websites that imitate the official Chaar Dhaam helicopter booking website. “These scammers collect booking payments from pilgrims, but when the day of the yatra arrives, they disappear entirely. This is how they deceive pilgrims, leaving them without their bookings,” eUttaranchal’s blog post reads.

Instances of such scams are increasing “day by day”, and fraudsters have been able to scam several pilgrims by luring them into purchasing non-existent helicopter tickets. The travel agency has highlighted the modus operandi of the scammers.

Booking.com refused to comment when asked whether there have been instances of online booking scams through its platform, and what steps the company has taken to tackle such instances. Goibibo and Agoda did not revert to MediaNama’s request for a comment on the same questions.

In the press release, the MHA advised people to –

In order to contain such scams, the I4C is taking a multi-pronged strategy. It is working with intermediaries like Google, WhatsApp, and Facebook to proactively detect scams by exchanging scam signals regularly.

It has also been identifying cybercrime hotspots, and is sensitising people in States and Union Territories where such scams originate. The I4C periodically disables access to fake websites, advertisements, and social media accounts that impersonate others to protect people. It has also developed the Suspect Checking and Reporting feature on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal, that enables hassle-free reporting.

In January 2025, the Uttar Pradesh police had released an awareness video on X (formerly Twitter), asking people to stay wary of “cyber scams” during the Mahakumbh Mela in Prayagraj. Along with the video, it also released a list of verified places where pilgrims could stay. It advised people to only book their stay at these places through the registered websites to avoid getting lured into a cyber scam.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event