Branch being the authorized officer of Central Government under Prevention of Money

Laundering Act, 2002 , lodged a complaint before the learned Chief Judge, City Sessions Court,

Kolkata (hereinafter referred to as the learned Trial Court) with a prayer for taking cognizance
 and to conduct trial of the offences punishable under Section 4 of the Prevention of Money

Laundering Act (as amended) and the scheduled offences. In the complaint, it was alleged that an

investigation was conducted against Rose Valley Group of Companies which revealed that Rose

Valley Real Estate Construction Ltd. (RVRECL) repeatedly issued secured non convertible

debentures for the years from 2001 to 2008 to more than 49 persons raising huge amount of

money from public at large allegedly without filing offer document to regulatory authority or

without following the norms of SEBI. It is also alleged that though the issue of debenture was for a specified project, but the

funds have been allegedly diversified and utilized in other business which have been mobilized

through the issue of secured non convertible debentures and the funds accumulated through

other schemes like Ashirwad, have also allegedly been transferred to regional office at RVRECL

and a part thereof was allegedly utilized for its project at Mandarmoni. It is further alleged that

the income of RVRECL and the expenditure of the said company had allegedly accumulated a

negative reserve and similarly RVRECL's income and total expenditure also accumulated negative

reserves. On scrutiny of Balance Sheet of the said company indicates alleged siphoning of funds,

cross share holding amongst the group of companies with an intent to show fake capital to

change the colour of the public deposits into the company's capital and the funds have been

accumulated by the company by making false promises to the common people and the said two

companies have mobilized the fund under various schemes upon using manipulated wordings on

the deposit of certificates to avoid regulatory bodies like SEBI, RBI etc. to bypass the law and

regulations for raising money from the common public. Thus, the Rose Valley Group of

companies has allegedly laundered money in various banks as fixed deposit to project it as

untainted money and thereby committed offence punishable under Section 3 of the Prevention of

Money Laundering Act, 2002 which is punishable under Section 4 of the said Act. That prior to initiation of the proceedings of the Directorate of Enforcement, the RVRECL

had received a notice on 09.04.2010 from the Registrar of Companies under Section 234(3A) of

the Companies Act, 1956 and in compliance of the said notice the RVRECL replied and submitted

the documents before the ROC vide letters dated 21.04.2010, 28.04.2010 and 11.05.2010. During the course of enquiry conducted by the SEBI the Adjudicating Officer of SEBI

namely, Mr. Piyush Gupta passed an order on 26.03.2013 vide Adjudication Order No. PG/AO-

19/2013, under Section 15(i) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Rule 5 of SEBI (Procedure for

Holding Enquiry and imposing Penalties by Adjudicating Officer imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore

to the RVRECL for violation of provision of Section 11C (2) and 11C (3) of SEBI Act, 1992. On 26.04.2013 SEBI, being represented by its Assistant General Manager filed a

complaint case under Sections 24 / 27 of the SEBI Act read with Section 11C (3) of the Act, Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code vide Complaint Case NO. 14214 of 2013 before the learned

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta against the RVRECL and the present petitioner and eight

other Directors and office bearers of RVRECL. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that on

the self same date i.e. 26.04.2013, the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta on the

prayer of the complainant i.e. SEBI took cognizance against the said company under Sections

24 / 27 of the SEBI Act and it would be evident that on the day of filing the authorized

representative of the complainant was personally absent before the learned Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate, Calcutta and after taking cognizance against the aforesaid company and persons, the

learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta issued summons to the said company. It is submitted that the instant case relates to issuance of debentures to the tune of Rs.

12.82 crores which arose out of Complaint Case No. 14214 of 2013 preferred by SEBI. The

petitioner was the Chairman of the said company who has/had collected Rs. 12,363.63 crores

from the general public. It is contended on behalf of the petitioner that by order dated 17.4.2017 passed in C.R.R.

No. 3071 of 2015 by this Hon'ble Court directed the trial Court to frame charge against the

accused persons within two months from the date of communication of the order and if the

charge is framed, trial be concluded as expeditiously as possible without granting any

unnecessary adjournment to either of the parties. Although the order was passed more than 2 ½

years back, but till date charge has not been framed. Accordingly, it is submitted that the accused petitioner Gautam Kundu was arrested on

25th March, 2015 and by now he has completed the custody period of four years eleven months
 except that he was allowed interim bail on 08.04.2015 to enable him to attend him shradh

ceremony of his deceased father but his subsequent application for bail was rejected on

27.01.2015 as the bail application under Section 439 Cr.P.C. was not heard for a period of two

years and ultimately the same was not pressed by the petitioner and thus dismissed. It is submitted that the offence alleged by the defacto complainant under Section 3 for

money laundering provides that whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly

assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the

proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or

claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of offence of money laundering and Section 4 of

the said Act is the conviction clause which enjoins punishment with rigorous imprisonment for a

term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and shall also

be liable to fine. Thus it is argued that the proceeds of crime as per the definition of Section

2(1)(u) proceeds of crime means any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by a

person as a result of criminal activity relating to a schedule offence or the value of any such

property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property

equivalent in value held within the country or abroad and that the offence alleged in the instant

case does not fall within the scheduled offence. It is further submitted that twin conditions embodied in Section 45 of the

Act have been declared ultra virus by the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in case of Nikash Tarachand Shah Vs. Union of India and Anr. reported in

2018 (11) SCC 1 to argue that twin restrictions on the discretion of the Court to grant bail to

the accused under Section 45 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act has been done away with as

the provision is manifestly arbitrary and used in arbitrary fashion to deny bail for offences under

the said Act and struck down as unconstitutional observed in paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 thus:- It is submitted on behalf of the petitioner, since the petitioner has completed one half of

the maximum period of imprisonment specified for the offence under the said Act 2002, the

petitioner has preferred the instant application for bail under Section 436A of the Code of

Criminal Procedure but the learned trial Judge was of the opinion that the case is an exceptional

case which cannot be equated with the cases where the offenders involved in common

phenomenon other than the economic offences and rejected prayer of the petitioner to release him

on bail. It is argued that the provision of Section 436A of the Code relates to a maximum period

for which an undertrial prisoner can be detained during investigation, inquiry or trial. It is also

provided that in no case, an undertrial prisoner can be detained beyond the maximum period of

imprisonment for which he can be convicted for the offence. Accordingly, it is urged that since the

petitioner has been in custody for more than four and half years, his detention period is beyond
 one half of the maximum period as the maximum punishment provided for the offence under Section 4 of the Act, 2002 is for a term of seven years and even the trial has not been initiated.

The trial Judge while dealing with the application under Section 436A of Cr.P.C. has observed

that there is a merit of further detention of further custody since the matter is very sensitive.

Similar to that of 167(2) of the Code, Section 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides

that the learned Judge loses his jurisdiction to remand the under trial for custody after expiry of

a period of one half of the maximum punishment and for such reasons the order rejecting the

prayer for release of the accused petitioner has been assailed as per se illegal and in violation of Section 436A of Criminal Procedure Code. To support his contention learned counsel for the

petitioner relied on a decision in case of Bhim Singh Vs Union of India reported in

2015(13)SCC 605 to the observation in the paragraphs of 4, 5 & 6 thus-- 5. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the legislative policy engrafted in
 Section 436-A and large number of under trial prisoners housed in the prisons, we
 are of the considered view that some order deserves to be passed by us so that the
 under trial prisoners do not continue to be detained in prison beyond the maximum
 period provided under Section 436-A. 6. We, accordingly, direct that jurisdictional Magistrate/Chief Judicial
 Magistrate/Sessions Judge shall hold one sitting in a week in each jail/prison for
 two months commencing from 1-10-2014 for the purposes of effective implementation
 of Section 436-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In its sittings in jail, the above
 judicial officers shall identify the undertrial prisoners who have completed half period
 of the maximum period or maximum period of imprisonment provided for the said
 offence under the law and after complying with the procedure prescribed under
 Section 436-A pass an appropriate order in jail itself for release of such undertrial
 prisoners who fulfil the requirement of Section 436-A for their release immediately.
 Such jurisdictional Magistrate/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Sessions Judge shall submit
 the report of each of such sittings to the Registrar General of the High Court and at
 the end of two months, the Registrar General of each High Court shall submit the
 report to the Secretary General of this Court without any delay. To facilitate
 compliance with the above order, we direct the Jail Superintendent of each jail/prison
 to provide all necessary facilities for holding the court sitting by the above judicial
 officers. A copy of this order shall be sent to the Registrar General of each High Court,
 who in turn will communicate the copy of the order to all Sessions Judges within his
 State for necessary compliance. WP (Crl.) No. 310 of 2005" To counter the above submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner, on behalf of

Enforcement Directorate, learned counsel has adverted to the provision of Section 436A of the

Code of Criminal Procedure giving emphasis to the proviso clause that the Court may after

hearing the public prosecutor and for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, order the continued

detention of such person for a period longer than one-half of the said period or release him on

bail instead of the personal bond with or without sureties; provided further that no such person

shall in any case be detained during the period of investigation, inquiry or trial for more than the

maximum period of imprisonment provided for the said offence under that law. Therefore, for the
 reasons to be noted the Court is well empowered to order continued detention in jail instead of

releasing him on personal bond or on surety bond, however in no case the petitioner can be

continued with the detention beyond the period of seven years. Now, the Court has to find as to whether delay in trial was caused by the petitioner and

other accused person. The opposite party has by an affidavit submitted that the petitioner is the chairman cum

director of Rose Valley Real Constructed Limited and the investigation has been concluded with

the submission of the charge sheet which reveals that Rose Valley Group Company has

repeatedly issued secured non convertible debentures in the year 2001-02, 2004-05, 2005-06 &

2007-08 to more than 49 persons in each Financial Year and raised a total sum of Rs. 12.82

crores from general public without following any norms of SEBI. And investigation further

revealed that though the issue of debentures was for specific project but the funds have been

diversified and utilized in other business which have been mobilized through the issue of secured

non-convertible debentures. That Rose Valley illegally and fraudulently collected public money

from the general public from different states amounting more than Rs. 12363.63 crores. The learned Special Judge-PMLA Court fixed the matter for consideration of charge on

several occasions however the same could not be proceeded due to dilatory tactics adopted by the

different accused persons in the case and the detailed list to argue that the petitioners and other

accused persons are instrumental in causing delay in the proceeding of which are noted

hereunder:- It is evident from the charge sheet that the petitioner is responsible for the acts and affairs

of the company as the Chairman of Rose Valley Group of Company who planned and designed the

illegal schemes to mobilize deposits from the innocent investors including deposits under the

scheme of issue of debenture with false assurance of high return and thereby generated huge

sums and diverted and thereby laundered the money for different purposes by befooling the

common public and has committed offence under Section 3 read with Section 70(1) and (2) of PMLA Act punishable under Section 4 of the Act. Thus, the petitioner is involved in a grave

economic crime having serious social ramification and in the larger interest of the society. In my

considered view, the learned trial Judge has rightly turned down his prayer for release under the

provision of Section 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure by taking in view the proviso clauses

for his continued detention till the conclusion of the trial. Accordingly, in the context of what has been discussed above, the prayer for release of the

petitioner Gautam Kundu is refused considering the enormity of the crime and his involvement in

many other cases relating to Rose Valley cheat fund scam case. Accordingly, the C.R.M. No. 8345 of 2019 is dismissed, however, with the direction to the

trial Court to frame charge on the date fixed and endeavour to conclude the trial as per the

provision of Section 309 of Cr.P.C. without giving any accommodation of time to any of the parties

and to dispose of the case as expeditiously as possible with further direction to the Enforcement
 Directorate to produce all its witnesses on the time schedule framed by the trial Court but on

their failure to do so the petitioner is given liberty to renew his prayer for release under the

provision of Section 436A of Cr.P.C. if delay is caused in conclusion of the trial for non production

of the witnesses on the part of the Enforcement Directorate within the scheduled time framed for

holding the trial of the case by the trial Judge, otherwise not, if the delay is occasioned

intentionally by any of the accused persons including the petitioner. Let a copy of this order be communicated to the learned Trial Court. Urgent certified photocopy of this order, if applied for, be supplied to the parties upon

compliance with all requisite formalities. (SHIVAKANT PRASAD, J.)