Violation of the right to privacy and right to freedom of speech and expression, going beyond the scope of the parent legalisation, and restricting the right to do business in India are some of the legal grounds on which the cybersecurity directive issued by the Indian government on April 28 can be challenged, lawyers who spoke with MediaNama stated.

The directive, issued by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), has been criticised by cybersecurity and privacy experts , VPN providers , and tech companies for a long list of reasons, and some VPN companies even indicated that they might legally challenge the directive. But unsurprisingly, the legality of the rules is complex and not black-and-white.

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution grants the right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business, but these rules affect this right, Prateek Waghre pointed out. “So the right to conduct business as such in India because of the kind of restrictions that the directions are placing, whether that’s reasonable or not, could also be a question and ground for legal challenge,” Prasanth Sugathan said. For example, Surfshark VPN has said that logging and collecting KYC information goes against its business policies and technical capabilities.

4. Everywhere in the world CERT-IN job is to be a firefighter not make rules to make business difficult.5. The heavy compliance and restriction imposed by the CERT-In direction fails the proportionality test laid down by the Supreme Court under Puttaswamy II.

— Asha Jadeja Motwani 🇮🇳🇺🇸 (@ashajadeja325) May 20, 2022

This ground for challenge does not exist currently because India does not have a data protection law, but “interestingly and speculatively,” if the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 had been enacted into legislation, then the CERT-In directive’s requirement to store certain data for a period of five years would have been in contradiction with the data minimisation principles of the data protection law, Amay Jain said. “The fundamental right to privacy as enshrined in under Puttaswamy II also envisions purpose limitation of data. Storing this data for a period of 5 years will disregard the principle of purpose limitation as well,” SLFC noted. The 6-hour timeline to report cybersecurity is also scant compared to the 72 hours deadline proposed in the Bill for personal data breaches.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event