JUDGMENT -------- S. SAGHIR AHMAD --------------- Section 10A of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures
Act, 1953 provides that the	State Govt. or any officer
authorised by it may utilise	any surplus area for	 the
resettlement of tenants ejected or	to be ejected under
clause (1) of sub-section (1) of Section 9.	The further
implication of this Section is that if the surplus area, in
the meantime, is acquired by the State Govt. under any	 law
for the time	being of force, or it passes to an heir by
inheritance, the surplus area so acquired or inherited would
not be available for utilisation. It	was this statutory
provision which was sought to be invoked by the appellants
who contended that the surplus area, on	 the death of	 the
original owner, namely Banarsi Das, was inherited by the
and, therefore, it could not be utilised in any was,	 not
even by allotment of	 this area in favour of Mangat Ram,
which was liable to be cancelled, but they lost	 before	 all
the authorities and have ultimately landed in this Court.
Leave granted. Banarasi Das,	father	of the	 appellants, was the
owner of considerable land in Village Kanthal	Kalan,	Dera
Kalan, Dera Khurd, District Kurukshetra, Haryana. An area
of 137 Kanals 8 Marlas of land was declared as surplus under
the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Punjab Act"), which was later replaced
by the Haryana Ceiling on Land Holdings	 Act,	1972 (hereinafter referred to as the "Haryana Act").
Banarsi Das died on 12th January, 1971 leaving
behind	Smt. Dropadi Devi (wife) and the present appellants
(daughters), as his heirs, who inherited the property	left
by him. Since each of them got land which was less than 30
standard acres and since the land in question had not	been
utilised, they	 gave an application under Section 10A(b) of
the Punjab Act, that	 their	land may be taken out of the
surplus pool. This application, which was filed	 before	 the
Collector (Agrarian), Karnal, on 4.7.1972 was registered as
Case No. 2441/Agr., which came ultimately to the court of
S.D.O.	(Civil), Karnal for decision, During the course of
the proceedings, report of the Patwari,	 Teja Singh, dated
21.9.1972 and	that of the Naib Tehsildar, Tarif Singh, of
the same date, were placed on	record	which were to	 the
effect	that on the surplus lands of Banarsi Das, no tenant
had been re-settled. Consequently, S.D.O. (Civil), by	 his
order dated 30.11.1972, exempted the land	held by the
appellants and Smt. Dropadi Devi, who has since	 died,	from
the surplus pool. On 16.12.1977, the appellants gave an application to
the Collector	for cancellation of the allotment order made
in favour of Mangat Ram on 13.7.1976, which was registered
as Case No. 54/Agr.	Mangat Ram, it may be stated, is the
father of respondent No.3.	This case was	 decided on
13.6.1978 by the Collector (Agrarian), Karnal, and the
allotment made in favour of Mangat Ram was cancelled on	 the
ground	that the land had not been utilised and had already
been exempted from the surplus	pool as indicated by	 the
S.D.O.	in his order dated 30.11.1972.	 Mangat	 Ram
challenged the order in appeal before the Collector, Karnal,
who, by his order dated	 8.8.1983 allowed the	 appeal	 and
remanded the case to	 Collector (Agrarian)	for a fresh
decision. Aggrieved by this order, the	 present appellants
filed an appeal before the Commissioner, Ambala Division,
who, by his order dated 26.9.1984 dismissed the appeal.	 The
appellants then filed	 a Revision before the Financial
Commissioner, but the Revision was dismissed on 28.2.1990.
The proceedings remanded to Collector, Karnal were
ultimately decided by him on 17.8.1992.	 The application of
the present appellants for releasing the land from the
surplus pool was rejected and the allotment order passed in
favour of Mangat Ram	was upheld.	It was found by the
Collector that an area of 40 Kanals 16	Marlas	had already
been allotted to Mangat Ram on 21.2.1964 and possession over
the allotted land was also delivered to him on 17.3.1964.
It was found that since the surplus land had already	been
utilised before the death of Bansarsi Das, there was no
occasion to cancel the allotment made in favour of Mangat
Ram in 1964. This judgment was challenged by the appellants
in an appeal filed before the Commissioner, Ambala Division
but the appeal was dismissed on	 20.1.1993. The Revision
filed,	 thereafter, before the Financial Commissioner,
Haryana was dismissed on 21.1.1997. The appellants	then
agitated the matter in a Writ Petition before the Punjab &
Haryana	 High Court which, by the	impugned judgment,
dismissed the Writ Petition on 14.8.1997.
Shri Rajinder Sachar, Senior Counsel, appearing for
the appellants, has contended that there was no	 utilisation
of surplus land under the Punjab Act till the death of
Banarsi Das on	 12.1.1971 and, therefore, the land, in
question, was	inherited by the appellants along with their
mother Smt. Dropadi Devi who being the	small farmers	were
entitled to an exemption of	 their land from the surplus
pool. It is also contended	that since the provisions
contained in the Punjab Act and the Rules framed thereunder
with regard to the utilisation	of surplus area were	 not
complied with,	 the land in question shall not be deemed to
have been utilised. The land, after the	 death	of Bansarsi
Das, was inherited by the appellants and since inheritance
is saved under Section 10-A(b) of the Punjab Act, the	area
which constituted the land of the appellants was liable to
be excluded from surplus area or there has to	 be
re-determination of surplus area under the Haryana Act as
succession had opened on 12.1.1971 on the death	 of Banarsi
Das, that is,	 ten days before 24.1.1971,	which is the
relevant date under that Act and the land devolved upon them
by inheritance. Learned	 counsel for	 the respondents, on	 the
contrary, has contended that after the	 land was declared
surplus, it was fully utilised by	an allotment made in
favour of Mangat Ram to whom possession was also delivered
in 1964. Mangat Ram remained in possession over the area in
question throughout his life by personally cultivating the
land and after his death. respondents	 No.3 has been in
possession as	has also been found by all the authorities
below.	It is contended that the findings recorded by	 the
Collector, karnal as also by	 the Commissioner. Ambala
Division and the Financial Commissioner, to the effect	that
the land was allotted to Mangat Ram in 1964 and possession
was also delivered to him on 17.3.1964.	 are	findings of
fact which cannot be questioned in these	 proceedings
particularly as the High Court had summarily dismissed	 the
Writ Petition	 on this very	 ground, namely, that	 the
findings, which were questioned before it, were findings of
fact. Section	 10-A and 10-B of the Punjab Act provide as
under:- Explanation -	Such utilization of	 any
	surrplus area	will not affect the	right of the
	land-owner to	receive	 rent from the tenant so
	settled. (c) For the purposes of determining the surplus area
	of any	 person	 under	this section, any judgment,
	decree or order	 of a	court or other authority,
	obtained after	 the commencement of	this Act and
	having the effect of diminishing the area of	such
	person which could have been declared as his surplus
	area shall be ignored. 10-B.	 Saving by inheritance not to	apply after
	utilization of surplus area. - Where succession has
	opened after the surplus area or any part thereof
	has been utilized under clause (a) of section 10-A,
	the saving specified	in favour of	an heir by
	inheritance under clause (b) of that section shall
	not apply in respect of the area so utilised.
While Sub-clause (a) of Section 10-A authorises the
State Government or any officer	 empowered by	it in	that
behalf	to utilise any surplus area for the resettlement of
tenants ejected, or to be ejected, under Section 9(1)(i) of
the Act, Clause (b) creates an exemption in favour of land
which, in the meantime, is inherited by	 the heirs on	 the
death of the land owner. The land so inherited cannot be
utilised. But if the land has already been utilised,	then
the exemption will not be available to the heirs as provided
by Section 10-B.
Part IV of the Rules made under the Punjab Act deals
with the resettlement	of tenants ejected or liable to
ejectment. Rule 13 indicates the procedure	 for
dispossession of tenants liable to ejectment under Section
9(1)(i). Rule 14 provides for resettlement of tenant on the
application of	 the landowner. Rule 15 provides	 for
resettlement on the application of the tenants.	 Suo	motu
proceeding for	 resettlement of tenant can be initiated by
the circle Revenue Officer under Rule 16. Rule 17 indicates
the procedure which is to be followed by the Circle Revenue
Officer	 while	Rule 18 provides for	 the procedure	 for
allotment of land. Rules 20-A, 20-B, 20-C and 20-D, which
are relevant for purposes of the present case,	 provide as
under:- 20-C.	 Conditions of	 resettlement. - The
	tenant who is resettled under this part- (a) shall be tenant of the landowner in
	whose name the land	in question stands in the
	revenue records; (b) shall be liable to pay the same amount
	of rent as is customary in that estate for such land
	subject to the maximum fixed under section 12 of the
	Act; and (c) shall in respect of the land upon which
	he is	resettled execute a Qabuliyatt or a Patta as
	given in Annexure 'C' appended to	the Punjab
	Security of Land Tenures Rules, 1953, in favour of
	the landowner before he is put in possession of	 the
	land. 20-D. Consequences of not taking possession. - In
	case, a tenant does not take possession of surplus
	area allotted to him, for resettlement	 within	 the
	period	specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 20-B, thee
	allotment shall be liable to be	 cancelled and	 the
	area allotted	to such tenant may be utilized for
	resettlement of another tenant. The statutory provisions quoted above indicate that
the surplus land has to be allotted to a tenant already
ejected or likely to	be ejected for resettlement. After
allotment of the surplus area to a tenant, a Certificate in
Form K-6, describing	clearly the land allotted to him, is
issued, copies whereof are sent to the Patwari concerned as
also the landowner on whose	 land the tenant is to be
resettled. Thereafter, possession of the allotted area is
delivered to the tenant who	 is bound to take possession
within	a period of two months of	the date on which
demarcation of the land is made at the site in his presence
or within such extended period as may	be allowed by	 the
Circle Revenue Officer. Once a tenant has been resettled, he
becomes	 the tenant of the landowner and becomes liable to
pay rent to that owner, Rule 20-C(c) further requires	that
the tenant so	 resettled, shall execute a Kabuliyat or a
Patta on the Proforma given in Annexure 'C' appended to	 the
Rules in favour of the landowner.	But the execution of
Kabuliyat or Patta has to be done before the tenant is	 put
in possession of the land. Resettlement has to take place in
the manner indicated	in the	 above	provisions. Once the
process is completed, the surplus land shall be	 treated to
have been utilised within the meaning of Section 10-A(a) of
the Punjab Act. In Financial Commissioner, Haryana State and other
vs. Smt. Kela Devi and another, (1980) 1 SCC 77 = AIR 1980
SC 309 = 1980 (1) SCR 1120, it was indicated by	 this court
as under:- The Court further observed as under:- This decision was considered by a Constitution Bench
in Ujjagar Singh (dead) by L.Rs. vs. The Collector, Bhatinda
& Anr. , (1996) 5 SCC 14 = AIR 1996 SC 2623 = JT 1996 (6)
S.C. 713, and was approved. The Constitution	 Bench	also
considered a Full Bench decision of the Punjab and Haryana
High Court in Ranjit Ram vs. The Financial Commissioner,
Revenue, Punjab & Ors. (1981) 83 P.L.R. 492, and observeed
as under:- Relying	 upon	the above statutory	 provisions
specially the	 decision of	 this	court in Financial
Commissioner, Haryana State and others vs. Smt. kela Devi
and another (supra) and the Constitution Bench decision in Ujjagar Singh (dead) by L.Rs. vs. The Collector, Bhatinda
& Anr. (supra) which approved the	 earlier decision in Financial Commissioner, Haryana State and others vs.	Smt.
Kela Devi (supra), it is contended by Mr. Rajinder Sachar
that in the instant case, the process of utilisation did not
move beyond the stage of allotment in favour of	 Mangat	 Ram
and, therefore, the land shall not be treated to have been
utilised as neither possession was taken over by him nor did
he execute any Kabuliyat in favour of Banarsi Das till	 the
time of	 latter's death on 12.1.1971. On	 that date,
succession to Banarsi Das opened and the land	came to be
inherited by the appellants	as also their mother who has
since died. It is also	 contended that the Haryana	Act,
under which the relevant date is 24th of January, 1971,
would not affect the rights of the appellants as they	 had
already	 inherited the surplus land before the relevant date
and consequently their application for cancellation of	 the
allotment, made in favour of Mangat Ram, was liable to be
allowed. Whether	 all the steps indicated in	 the Rules , referred to above for utilisation of land, were observed and
followed or not, is a question which has been considered by
all the authorities before whom the matter was agitated	 and
they have concurrently held against the appellants and have
recorded the finding that possession of the land allotted to
Mangat Ram was delivered to him. We would normally have not
entered, in the present proceedings under Article 136 of the
Constitution, into those questions of fact, but Mr. Sachar
has Vehemently contended that all the steps for utilisation
of surplus land were not taken, specially possession thereof
was not delivered to	 Mangat	 Ram and, therefore,	 the
mandatory requirements	 indicated in the Act and the rules
were violated which has impelled us	 to scrutinise	 the
findings in the light of the arguments raised before us as
also the material brought on record through various
affidavits by the parties in this case. Collector, Agrarian, Thanesar,	Distt.	Kurukshetra,
in his	 judgment dated 17.8.1992 has recorded the following
findings:- Regarding From K-6, the finding is to the following
	effect:- The Financial Commissioner, in	his Judgment dated
21st of January, 1997 recorded the following findings:- Therefore, under Section 10(A)(b) of	 the Punjab
	Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953, they	were
	entitled to get exemption from the	 land being
	declared surplus as the successors of the big land
	owner were small land-owners. The present
	petitioners have quite laboriously harped on this
	issue that the allotment of the surplus land in
	favour of Sh.	 Mangat Ram was fake and forgery was
	done in various documents to show that possession of
	the land had been given to Sh.	Mangat Ram. 11.Even though he succeeded in	 creating some
	doubts	about the genuineness of certain documents
	about the delivery of possession, yet his arguments
	lose force because:- ii)In their application dated 16.12.77 the
	present	 petitioners were requesting the Collector
	(Agrarian) Karnal to cancel the said allotment	made
	in 1964	 and restore the possession to them.	This
	shows that the present	petitioners were admitting
	the fact that	 the possession of land had already
	been given to the respondents.	Their contention is
	that if possession had actually been given to the
	respondents on	 17.3.64 as mentioned in	Rapt
	Roznamcha No.	 219, the same should have	been
	reflected in Girdawari of Rabi 1964 or Kharif 1964.
	Revenue	 record	 has been produced to show that the
	respondents were in possession	of the	 land since
	1965.	 Absence of Girdwari	 in favour of	 the
	respondents for Rabi 1964 or Kharif 1964 cannot be
	taken to mean	 that the delivery of possession was
	fake. iii)The	 plea that entire allotment proceedings
	of surplus land in favour of Sh. Mangat Ram	 was
	fake, was never raised by the present petitioners at
	an earlier stage particularly when	they went to
	Collector (Agrarian) Karnal in	December, 1977	 for
	cancellation of allotment of surplus land in favour
	os Sh.	Mangat Ram and	 restoration of possession
	back from him. 12.After going through	the arguments	of the
	Counsels and perusing	 the record of the case it
	becomes apparent that the land of Shri Banarsi	Dass
	declared surplus in April, 1961 had been allotted
	and possession	given to the	allottees. It is
	possible that	in the	 process of allotment	 and
	utilisation of surplus land some of	 the
	technicalities	like execution	 of Kabuliat Nama or
	delivery of possession within 2 months of the	date
	of allotment may not have been fully comlied with.
	But these are mere technicalities and a poor tenant
	cannot	be deprived of his right to allotment of
	surplus	 land	merely	 because some	 of these
	technicalities	about delivery	 of possession	 and
	utilization of land had not been complied with. In
	this connection the rulings quoted by the counsel
	for the respondents namely : as also the following observations made by the Financial
Commissioner, Haryana, in his judgment dated 21.1.1997:- If "Kabuliyat" was not executed, the land, it is contended,
cannot be treated to	have been utilised.	 We are not
prepared to accept this contention. Undoubtedly, all the requirements indicated in	Rule
20-C are mandatory in character and, therefore, clause (c)
of Rule 20-C will also be mandatory for the reason that	 the
first part of this clause contains in imperative terms that
the tenant shall execute a "Kabuliyat" or "Patta" in favour
of the	 land-owner and the second part which is equally
imperative says that it shall be done before possession is
delivered to the tenant. It is obvious that if the second
mandatory step was taken and the possession over the	land
was delivered	by the	 Revenue Circle Officer himself as
required by Rule 20-B, there is no reason to believe	that
the first mandatory step, immediately preceding thee second
step, was not taken particularly as possession would	 not
have been delivered to Mangat Ram	without execution of
"Kabuliyat". In fact,	delivery of possession being	 the
official act of the Revenue Circle Officer as indicated in
Rule 20-B, a	presumption has to be raised that	 all
antecedent formalities were duly complied with.
There is another reason for	 not accepting this
argument of the the learned counsel for the appellants. It
is indicated in Section 9(1)(vi) that if the tenant does not
execute	 the "Kabuliyat" in favour of the land-owner, he
would be liable	 to be	 ejected. Form	 of "Kabuliyat" is
specified in Annexure 'C' appended to the Punjab Security of
Land Tenures Rules, 1953. It is in the form of a statement
made by the tenant that he has taken the land belonging to
"X" for cultivation to whom	 he would pay the rent per
agriculture year regularly in time. The	 tenant	 also gives
the undertaking that he would not : Note given at the foot	of the	 Form of Kabuliyat
reads as under:- is executed in duplicate. The original is handed over to
the land-owner	 while	the copy is retained by the tenant.
There is no requirement under the Act or the Rules that a
copy of "Kabuliyat" shall also be placed on record.
Learned counsel for the appellants also assailed the
findings of the Commissioner, Ambala Division and those
recorded by the Financial Commissioner	that there was an
admission of	the appellants	 in their application	 for
cancellation of allotment made in favour of Mangat Ram	that
possession over	 surplus land was delivered to him. It was
pointed out that the application contains a recital that if
possession is	found to have been delivered to Mangat Ram,
the same may be restored to the appellants. This, it is
alternative which can be legally made. The averment contained in the application may not,
in the strict sense, be treated as	"admission" of	 the
appellants, but their pleadings do exhibit a hesitant mind
in as much as	Mangat	Ram, to their	 knowledge, was in
possession over the land since 1964 and continued to remain
in possession	uninterruptedly	 as a	tenant,	 but	they
circumventively, as artificers, say	in their application
that IF possession was found with Mangat Ram, the same	 may
be restored to	 them.	 The use of	the word "IF" is a
deliberate contrivance	 so as	 to make the admission
conditional. Even if this is excluded from consideration,
the findings on the question of possession can still be
sustained on the basis of other evidence on record.
No other plea was raised before us. For the reasons
stated	above,	we find no merits in the appeal which is
dismissed but without any order as to costs.