1. The prosecution has charge sheeted the accused for
offence u/s. 328 / 376 / 506 IPC and u/s. 66 of I.T. Act. 2. It is the case of prosecution that the husband of the
prosecutrix namely M (real name not mentioned in order to
conceal her identity) is working in a Photo Lab and the prosecutrix
had been developing the photographs on the computer at her
residence. The accused is a property dealer and was on talking
terms with the prosecutrix's husband. In April, 2013 the accused
had given his photographs to the husband of the prosecutrix for
developing them and preparing a collage and thereafter he used SC No.06/14 Page 1 of 28 to remain in contact with the prosecutrix. One day in the month of
June, 2013, the accused came to the house of the prosecutrix and
had brought a cold drink also with him. He offered the cold drink to
prosecutrix. She asked him to take the cold drink but he told her
that he has already consumed half of the bottle. Accordingly,
prosecurtrix consumed the cold drink and after sometime she
passed out. She regained consciousness at about 4.00 p.m. and
found that all her clothes had been taken off. The accused showed
to her photographs and video from his mobile phone showing
them in nude state and also regarding the rape act. She started
weeping. The accused threatened her that if she complained
against him, he would show the video and photographs to her
husband and their family members and would also kill her. She got
terrified. Thereafter, the accused committed rape upon her four
times at her house after showing her the aforesaid photographs
and video. Her husband found her in a state of mental tension and
distress and asked her about the reason for the same. She
somehow got courage and narrated everything to her husband.
Her husband provided support to her and told her that there is
nothing to fear and thereafter she alongwith her husband visited
the police station on 10.08.13. However, when the accused was
called to the police station, the Beat Officers Bhoop Singh and
Laxman Singh talked to him and asked him to give in writing that
he would not commit such a mistake in future and thereafter let
off him. Her complaint was not registered. 3. It is further the case of prosecution that the
prosecutrix had submitted a written complaint to the SHO, P.S.
Bindapur on 29.08.13 and the same was marked to ASI Banwari SC No.06/14 Page 2 of 28 Lal for necessary action. However, it was thereafter entrusted to
S.I. Nirmal Sharma. She summoned the prosecutrix to the police
station on 09.09.13 and recorded her statement. She prepared
rukka and got the FIR registered. She sent the prosecutrix to DDU
Hospital for medical examination and seized the exhibits given by
the doctor. Accused Harish was arrested in the police station on
the identification of the prosecutrix. He was got medically
examined in DDU Hospital. He made a disclosure statement
admitting his guilt and also pointed out the crime spot. IO also
seized the mobile phone of the accused. All the exhibits were sent
to FSL for forensic examination. 4. After the completion of the investigation IO prepared
the charge sheet and submitted the same to the concerned Ld.
M.M. Upon committal of the case to the Court of Sessions, charges u/s. 328 IPC, u/s. 376 IPC and 66 E of Information Technology Act,
2000 and u/s. 406 IPC were framed against accused on 03.02.14.
The accused denied the charges and accordingly trial was held.
The prosecution has examined 12 witnesses to establish the guilt
of the accused. The accused was examined u/s. 313 Cr.P.C. on
23.08.14 wherein he denied the prosecution case and claimed
false implication. He further stated that he had given a sum of Rs.
2 lacs as loan to Rajesh, the husband of the prosecutrix in the
month of January, 2013 who was to return the same alongwith
interest @ 2% per month. Rajesh paid him interest for only two
months and then stopped paying interest. Rajesh demanded a
further loan of Rs. 3 lacs from him but he told him that further loan
would be given only if he mortgages his property documents with
him. Rajesh did not do so and hence he refused to pay the SC No.06/14 Page 3 of 28 additional loan. He had visited the house of Rajesh a couple of
times to demand back the loan amount and verbal altercation had
taken place between them. Rajesh used to ask him to arrange
further loan for him but did not pay the initial loan amount. They
had quarrel on this issue on 05.06.13 and during the night
intervening between 05.06.13 and 06.06.13 Rajesh came to his
house at about 2.30 a.m. alongwith four other persons and when
he came out of the house, they started beating him. Rajesh asked
him where his wife and children are. He told Rajesh, he does not
know anything about them. As he had suffered injuries on his left
arm, he made a call at Tel. No. 100. The Beat Official reached
there and took him to the police station where his statement was
recorded. Rajesh's wife and children were also present in the
police station. No action was taken on his complaint and he
returned home. He also stated that Rajesh's wife i.e. the
prosecutrix had gone to her parental house in Amritsar on
06.06.13 wherefrom she had made a call to him saying that her
husband suspects illicit relations between them. She asked him to
marry her but he told her that marriage is not possible as he is
already married. Upon this, she asked him to give her a sum of Rs.
1 lac or otherwise she would not spare him and thereafter she
lodged this false complaint against him. 5. The accused examined Dishant Tyagi, his friend as
well as partner as DW-1 and his another friend Anil Sharma as
DW-2 to prove his defence. 6. I have heard Ld. APP, Ld. Counsel for the accused and
have perused the entire record. 7. The prosecutrix has been examined as PW-6. The
relevant portion of her examination in chief is reproduced
hereunder:- 8. She also proved her statement recorded u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. as Ex. PW6/D. In answer to a few leading questions put to
her by Ld. APP with the permission of Court, she denied that
accused was arrested in her presence or that IO had prepared site
plan of the spot of incident at her instance. She also denied that
accused had raped her for the first time i the month of June, 2013
after making her unconscious and reiterated that it happened in
the month of May, 2013. 9. In the cross examination, she deposed that her date of
birth is 08.11.1983 and she is doing the work of photography
designing at home, though she has not obtained any diploma or
degree in the said job. She deposed that her husband is having
shift duty in his office at Gurgaon and at the time of morning shift
duty, he leaves house at 8.00 a.m. and returns home at 10.30 p.m.
Her relations with her husband are very sweet and cordial. She
however, admitted that she had filed a complaint against her
husband at P.S. Bindapur but added voluntarily it was done by her
on the same day when she was taken to the police station from
the house of the accused and on account of fear of the accused,
she had given in writing that she does not want to go alongwith
her husband. She denied that there had been quarrels between
herself and her husband on various occasions and she used to go
to her parental house at Amritsar on account of those quarrels.
She deposed that accused had come to their house for preparation
of photo collage in the month of May, 2013 but she did not SC No.06/14 Page 8 of 28 recollect exact date. She had designed the collage on the
computer. She deposed that they delete the photographs of the
customers from the computer after 15 to 20 days if the customer
does not come back during those days. She admitted that
whenever any item is deleted from the computer, it automatically
get saved in the hard disk of the computer. She had not handed
over the hard disk of her computer at home to the IO. 10. She further deposed that her mother-in-law and
brothers-in-law too reside with them in the house. She also
admitted that they were facing financial constraints. She denied
that her husband had taken a loan of Rs. 2 lacs from the accused
for setting up a photo lab. She deposed that she had never gone to
the house of accused before the date of incident. According to her,
on the date of first incident of rape, the accused had come to their
house in the afternoon. Her children had gone to her parental
house and her brothers-in-law as well as their families were on the
first floor. She was present on the ground floor and her husband
had gone to the office. Accused alone had come to their house.
Nobody else except herself and the accused was seen by her in
the photographs and the video shown to her by the accused from
his mobile phone. She did not notice the hands of the accused in
the video. She admitted that she had only seen the accused
kissing her while lying over her in nude condition. She deposed
that it is possible that a person can take photographs and make
video while lying over a female in nude condition. She did not
make call at Tel. No. 100 after the aforesaid incident as she was
scared of the accused. She did not know whether the accused is
married or unmarried. She could not tell why her husband and her SC No.06/14 Page 9 of 28 family suspected the role of Harish in her disappearance on
05.06.13, as mentioned by her in the statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C Ex.
PW6/D. At first she feigned ignorance about Mobile No.
9211228017. However, soon admitted that it is the mobile number
of the daughter-in-law of her matrimonial uncle residing at Majnu-
Ka-Tila and that she had been talking to the accused from the said
mobile number. She denied that mobile no. 9718354233 was
given to her by the accused and that she had taken the same to
Amritsar and was talking to the accused from the said mobile
number from Amritsar. She did not know whether accused had
filed a complaint against her in P.S. Bindapur. She deposed that
she herself had written the complaint Ex. PW6/A and Ex. PW6/B. 11. The prosecutrix's husband Rajesh is PW-10. His
deposition in examination in chief is reproduced hereunder:- 12. He was declared hostile by the Ld. APP on some point
and in the cross examination conducted by Ld. APP he admitted
that he has handed over a photograph of his wife to the IO on
17.09.13 which was seized by the IO vide memo Ex. PW10/A. In
the cross-examination he deposed that the accused had
approached him for making his collage in the first week of May,
2013 but he did not recall the exact date. He does not issue any
bills or invoice regarding the work done by him at home. He had
received a call from the accused at about 11.00 a.m. for making
changes in his collage and immediately thereafter he made a call
to his wife telling her that accused would be coming there for
making changes in his collage. He deleted the data from the
computer after about one week or 10 days. He had not informed
the accused before deleting his data from the computer. He
further deposed that after return from Byas, his brother told him
that accused has been visiting his house at his back. He may have SC No.06/14 Page 13 of 28 called at Tel No. 100 after midnight on the day when he did not
found his wife and children at home. Before that he was not able
to talk to his wife as her mobile phone was switched off. He came
to know for the first time on his visit to Amritsar in July, 2013 that
accused had raped his wife. He had brought back his wife from
Amritsar after 10.08.13 but he did not recollect the date. He did
not report the matter to police immediately on return from
Amritsar as he knew that police would not take any action against
accused. He deposed that his brothers and mother used to live in
the same house in which he resides. He and his family were
staying at ground floor. He used to maintain his brothers and
mother. He denied that he had taken a loan of Rs. 2 lacs from the
accused for setting up a printing lab and was demanding a further
loan of Rs. 5 lacs from the accused. He denied that he and his
brothers had beaten the accused on 06.06.13. He did not know
whether the accused had filed a complaint in the Police Station
Bindapur against himself and his brothers regarding the said
incident. 13. ASI Roop Singh has been examined as PW-2. He was
the Duty Officer and has received an information from the Control
Room on wireless at 3.30 a.m. during the night intervening
between 05.06.13 and 06.06.13 and has recorded the D.D.No. 4A
which is Ex. PW2/A and has entrusted the same to ASI Banwari Lal
for suitable action. D.D mentions that "caller's wife had left home
at 6.00 p.m., caller had called her and she told him that she is safe
but could not tell where she is, caller suspects somebody." 14. ASI Banwari Lal has been examined as PW-11. His SC No.06/14 Page 14 of 28 deposition in examination in chief is reproduced hereunder:- 15. In the cross-examination, he admitted that accused
Harish also had submitted complaint Ex. PW11/C in the police
station on 06.06.13. He further stated that both the prosecution
and her husband told him that they have reconciled their
differences but no memorandum of settlement was recorded. He
admitted that accused submitted another complaint in the police
station on 15.06.13 (Ex. PW11/D) but no action was taken on the
same. 16. The prosecutrix in her FIR and in her statement u/s.
164 Cr.P.C. Ex. PW6/D, has mentioned that the accused had raped
her for the first time in the month of June, 2013. However, in her
deposition before this Court she has stated that it happened in the
middle of May, 2013. On this aspect, she was declared hostile by
the Ld. APP but in the cross examination conducted by Ld. APP
also, she reiterated that the accused had raped her for the first
time in the month of May, 2013. She has nowhere explained as to
why did she mentioned the month of June in her complaint to the
police Ex. PW6/C and in the statement u/s. 1764 Cr.P.C. Ex. PW6/D,
if infact the incident had taken place in the month of May, 2013. It
is to be noted that the prosecutrix has submitted the complaint to
the police station in the month of September, 2013 and the time
duration was not that long enough during which she may have
forgotten the incident. In my opinion, the mentioning of even the
month differently in different statements by the prosecutrix cannot
be brushed aside lightly and it affects the credibility and reliability
of her complaint as well as her deposition. 17. Even otherwise also there is no evidence on record to SC No.06/14 Page 16 of 28 show that the accused had committed rape upon the prosecutrix
when he visited her house in the month of May, 2013 to make
certain changes in his photo collage. The prosecutrix has
consistently mentioned in her every statement including her
deposition in this Court that after consuming cold drink offered by
the accused at that time, she became unconscious and did not
know what happened thereafter. When she regained
consciousness she found herself lying totally nude and the
accused showed her certain photographs and a video from his
mobile phone in which she saw him lying over her and both of
them were totally nude. According to her, the video also showed
the accused kissing her. In the cross-examination, she admitted
that she had only seen the accused kissing her while lying over her
in nude condition. The prosecutrix has nowhere stated that the
accused had committed sexual intercourse with her on that
occasion either before passed out or after she regained
consciousness. She also does not say that after regaining
consciousness she felt or realised that she had been subjected to
rape during her unconsciousness. Therefore, the evidence is highly
insufficient to arrive at any conclusion that she had been raped by
the accused. Even though the mobile phone of the accused had
been seized after his arrest and sent to FSL, where a CD of the
data (audio, video and images) containing in its storage and
hardware was retrieved but no such video or image showing the
accused and the prosecutrix in nude state or in compromising
position was seen therein. 18. The fact that the prosecutrix accepted and consumed
the cold drink offered by the accused without any serious SC No.06/14 Page 17 of 28 hesitation indicates that the relations between the two were a bit
more intimate then that of a mere service provider and customer. 19. In her complaint Ex. PW6/C, the prosecutrix has then
stated that after the aforementioned first incident, the accused
committed rape upon her four times at her residence after
blackmailing her by showing the obscene video. She has not given
any further details in the complaint as to when and in what
circumstances had the accused come to her house on these four
occasions when he raped her. In the statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. Ex.
PW6/D she has mentioned that the accused came to know that her
husband is going to Beas for three days and he asked her not to
accompany her husband to Beas and threatened that in case she
went to Beas, he would show her video to everybody. She further
stated that after her husband left for Beas, the accused came to
her house three times during the nights and committed sexual
intercourse with her against her consent. In her deposition before
this Court she stated that in the first week of June, 2013 her
husband, her mother-in-law and her children had gone to Beas to
participate in Satsang of Babaji and she was present alone in the
house. Her husband and other family members remained at Beas
for three days and during that period the accused came to her
house daily during night time and committed forcible sexual
intercourse with her after repeating his threats. 20. Therefore, it is evident that prosecutrix has made
improvements at every stage regarding these incidents of rape. In
the complaint Ex. PW6/C, there is mention that the accused
committed rape upon her four times at her residence. The SC No.06/14 Page 18 of 28 incidents of rape have come down to three in her later statements.
In the statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. Ex. PW6/D, she states that the
accused asked her not to accompany her husband to Beas and
threatened her that in case she went to Beas alongwith her
husband, he would show her video to everybody. This is missing in
her deposition before this Court. In her complaint and in her
statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. she does not state that her mother-in-
law as well as her children had also gone to Beas alongwith her
husband. She has stated so for the first time in her testimony
before this Court. Moreover, her husband PW-10 also has not
deposed in his testimony that his mother and his children had also
accompanied to Beas. Hence, it is not clear that the prosecutrix
was present alone in her house when her husband had gone to
Beas. Further, it is the contention of the prosecutrix that accused
used to come to her house during this period in the nights. This
gives an indication that she expected him to come there and was
consenting party to physical relations with him. If the prosecutrix
did not want the accused to come to her house, she would have
kept the doors of her house closed and would not have permitted
him enter into the house during late hours of night. It would not
have been possible for the accused to enter into the house of the
prosecutrix during the nights, in case she would not have
cooperated with him in this regard. In view of the same, I find it
difficult to accept that the physical relations between the two
during those three nights were forcible and against the consent of
prosecutrix. 21. The prosecutrix has further deposed that after about
two or three days of her husband's return from Beas, the accused SC No.06/14 Page 19 of 28 gave her a call and asked her to reach his house. Since she feared
that he may rape her again she took her two minor sons alongwith
her and reached the accused's house at about 7.00 p.m. or 8.00
p.m. The accused kept them confined during the whole night and
did not permit her to leave. The accused left the house after 11.00
p.m. without telling her where he is going and locked the house
from outside. Her mobile phone had got switched off and she was
not able to make any call. Next morning two police officials from
P.S. Bindapur alongwith accused came to the house of the accused
and took her as well as her children to the police station. 22. Here it would be pertinent to mention what
prosecutrix's husband PW-10 has deposed regarding this incident.
The relevant portion of his testimony in this regard is reproduced
hereunder:- 23. However, PW-11 ASI Banwari Lal, to whom the call
regarding the missing of prosecutrix made by her husband, was
entrusted for necessary action, has given a contradictory version
of the events which took place on 06.06.13. He has deposed that
as soon as the call was entrusted to him, the complainant Rajesh
alongwith his wife (prosecutrix) and her sister reached police
station and met him. Prosecutrix told him that she had left her
matrimonial house on her own and had gone to reside with her
sister. She also told him that she is being harassed by her husband
and his brother and she does not want to stay with her husband.
She expressed her desire to go to her parental house at Amritsar
to stay with her mother. According to him, the prosecutrix gave
her statement in writing which he proved as Ex. PW11/A. He also
recorded her separate statement Ex. PW11/B and hence no further
action was taken on the call and same was filed. 24. PW-11 has thus falsified the statements given by
prosecutrix and her husband regarding events which took place on
the intervening night of 05.06.13 and 06.06.13. The writing Ex.
PW11/A executed by the prosecutrix in the police station on
06.06.13 clearly demonstrates that she had left her matrimonial
home alongwith her children on her own will and without informing
her in-laws including her husband on account of some altercation
with her brothers-in-law and had gone to her sister Suman's house
in Raghubir Nagar. Her statement Ex. PW11/B recorded by PW-11
also shows that her husband, her brothers-in-law and her
husband's cousin had a quarrel with her on 05.06.13 and had also SC No.06/14 Page 22 of 28 abused her by telling her that she is doing prostitution and hence
she did not want to stay with her husband. Though these two
documents have not been put to the prosecutrix in her cross-
examination, yet their genuineness and authentication cannot be
disputed as these have been annexed with the charge sheet by
the prosecution itself and have been proved by its own witness
PW-11, responsible police officer. The prosecutrix also has, in her
examination in chief, hinted towards these two statements by
saying that she had told the police officials in the police station
that she had gone to the house of the accused voluntarily and she
does not want to go alongwith her husband and wants to go with
her sister. However, the prosecutrix has added that she said so in
the police station on account of fear of the accused as the accused
had told her that she should tell the police officials that she had
come to his house on her own will. I find this explanation of the
prosecutrix totally unacceptable. Apparently, the accused had not
given any threats to her during the whole night, when she is
stated to have been confined in the house of the accused by the
accused or in the morning when accused had reached there
alongwith the two police officials when she alongwith her children
was recovered. Therefore, there was no cause or occasion for her
to remain under the fear and to make any false statement to the
police officials at the behest of the accused. Moreover, her
husband was present in the police station at that time and she
should have felt safe in the presence of her husband, that too in
the police station and in all probability should have accompanied
her husband. According to PW-11, the prosecutrix was not
recovered from the house of the accused by any police official but
had come to the police station on her own alongwith her husband SC No.06/14 Page 23 of 28 and sister. All these proved facts created doubt regarding the
veracity of the deposition of prosecutrix and her husband in this
regard. 25. There are further discrepancies also in the deposition
of prosecutrix and her husband regarding the aforementioned
events. The prosecutrix has deposed in her cross examination that
she had never visited the house of the accused before the date of
incident i.e. 05.06.13. So it is not discernible how did she reach the
house of the accused alongwith her children, when she was not
aware about the location of his house and its address. She has
deposed that on receiving call from the accused asking her to
come to his house, she feared that the accused may rape her
again there and hence took her children alongwith her. It is
intriguing in the first place as to why did she agree to visit the
house of the accused on a mere phone call. The accused had not
extended any threat to her at that time. She admits that she
doubted the intention of the accused and thus a fear has arisen in
her mind but she did not think it necessary to inform her brothers-
in-law or mother-in-law or her husband about the said call of the
accused. Instead of taking her children alongwith her, prudence
demanded that she should have taken either her brother-in-law or
her mother-in-law or her husband alongwith her. 26. PW-10, the husband of the prosecutrix has deposed
that he had tried to contact his wife but her mobile phone was
switched off. But in his call to Tel. No. 100, which is recorded as
D.D. No. 4A in the police station, he has mentioned that he called
his wife and she told him that she is safe but could not tell where SC No.06/14 Page 24 of 28 she is. This indicates two things, firstly, that PW-10 has told a lie
before this Court that he could not contact his wife as her mobile
phone was switched off. Secondly, the prosecutrix was safe and
hence told her husband that she is safe. What further intrigues this
Court is that in this call to Tel. No. 100, which was made at 3.30
a.m. By PW-10, he does not mention that accused is responsible
for disappearance of his wife, even though in his examination in
chief he stated that he had became suspicious about the accused
around 1.00 a.m. and the accused had been avoiding to take him
to his house. This demonstrates that whatever PW-10 has deposed
in this regard has been concocted by him later on and there is no
truth in the same. 27. The aforesaid discussion on the evidence lead by the
prosecution regarding the incident which took place on the night
intervening between 05.06.13 and 06.06.13 leads to the
conclusion that the prosecutrix had left her house voluntarily
alongwith her children on account of harassment at the hands of
her husband and quarrel with her brothers-in-law and it was for
this reason that she did not want to return to her husband and
thus left for her parental house at Amritsar. 28. The prosecutrix has deposed that in the first week of
July, 2013, she somehow mustered courage and made a call to her
husband narrating all the incidents to him. Her husband
encouraged her to come to Delhi so that a complaint can be
lodged against the accused. Thereafter, her husband came to her
parental house after some days and brought her to Delhi. To the
contrary, prosecutrix's husband PW-10 has deposed that in the SC No.06/14 Page 25 of 28 month of July, 2013, his wife made a call to him asking him to
come to her parental house at Amritsar as she wants to talk to
him. Accordingly, he visited his in-laws house at Amritsar and his
wife told him that the accused had raped her and prepared her
nude video. It is therefore evident that the testimony of these two
material witnesses regarding how PW-10 came to know about
what his wife had suffered, is inconsistent and contrary to each
other. 29. Another fact which indicates that there had been
intimate relations between the prosecutrix and the accused, has
also come on record in the form of call detail records of mobile
phone no. 9217598974. The prosecutrix has admitted in her cross-
examination that the said mobile number is being used by her
mother at Amritsar. The IO S.I. Nirmal Sharma in her deposition
dated 23.09.14 has stated that during the course of investigation
it came to be known that mobile no. 9217598974 was being used
by the mother of the prosecutrix at Amritsar and it has been
allotted in the name of Jagjit Singh, the brother of prosecutrix's
mother. She also deposed that it came to be known during the
investigation that accused was using mobile no. 9818936273.
PW-7, the Nodal Officer, has proved the call detail records of
mobile no. 9217598974 from 01.06.13 to 21.09.13 as Ex. PW7/C
alongwith the Certificate u/s. 65B of Evidence Act as Ex. PW7/D.
Perusal of these call detail record shows that several calls had
been exchanged between the aforesaid two numbers during the
period 12.06.13 to 21.06.13. On 12.06.13 itself three calls had
been made by the accused to the aforesaid mobile number of
prosecutrix's mother lasting for 85 seconds, 438 seconds and 267 SC No.06/14 Page 26 of 28 seconds respectively. Obviously, the accused would have been
talking to the prosecutrix and not to her mother. It is also manifest
that the mobile number of prosecutrix's mother would have been
provided to the accused by none other than prosecutrix herself.
This demonstrates that the prosecutrix was in regular touch with
the accused even from her parental house at Amritsar and lends
credence to the statement of the accused made by him in his
examination u/s. 313 Cr.P.C. that prosecutrix had called her from
Amritsar saying that her husband suspects illicit relations between
her and the accused and asked him (accused) to marry her but on
his refusal to marry her, she asked him to give her Rs. 1 lac or
otherwise she would not spare him. 30. From the deposition of DW-1 it gets established that
the prosecutrix had taken a sum of Rs. 1,96,000/- on loan from the
accused which was to be repaid by her alongwith interest @ 2%
per month but she paid interest for only two months and
thereafter stopped payment of interest and had been demanding
further loan of Rs. 3 lacs from the accused which the accused
refused to pay her. His testimony goes on to establish the defence
taken by the accused that there had been a quarrel between him
and the prosecutrix's husband on the refusal of the accused to pay
any further loan to him which was the reason for enmity between
the two. 31. The over all assessment of the evidence led by the
parties, as discussed hereinabove reveals that the prosecution
case is highly improbable, lacking in credibility and trustworthiness
whereas the defence taken by the accused seems to be highly SC No.06/14 Page 27 of 28 probable. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove the
charges against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The
accused is liable to be acquitted and is hereby acquitted as such.