We missed this earlier: After the Centre’s push for linking Aadhaar and Voter ID, the Tamil Nadu government mandated residents to link their Electricity Board (EB) card with their Aadhaar number. State Electricity Minister V Senthil Balaji said the linkage will benefit the loss-making Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO), reported The News Minute . However, experts online and the Tamil Nadu public at large has voiced privacy concerns about the move.

Why it matters: Central and state government authorities are fast-embracing the idea of using or linking Aadhaar for various government activities. However, as has been widely covered in the past, the Aadhaar number is neither a unique ID nor does it function like a Social Security Code in the US. Despite this, Aadhaar is linked with other sensitive documents of citizens like their Voter ID , PAN card and now the EB card of Tamil Nadu residents. All of this is a point of concern, especially due to the lack of a data protection law in India. Even the latest version of such a Bill has received much criticism for failing to adequately address safety and privacy concerns of people.

Move from JPG to OTP for linking: In the November 24 version of the government directions, residents were required to upload a JPG copy of their Aadhaar number. This was amended by November 29 to Aadhaar-linked mobile OTP option. According to Srikanth Lakshmanan of the Cashless Consumer awareness collective, this shift allows UIDAI to be aware of the linking.

“Asking for JPG copy – was never safe for individual, even no other union govt mandated linking asked for JPG copy of UID, but only asked for (rel. safer) authentication. But OTP linking is hard – because not everyone uses same mobile,” he said in a tweet.

TNM also reported a similar hurdle for a Lala Thottam resident who visited the EB office on Usman road but struggled to link her Aadhaar because her family’s EB card was issued in the name of her mother-in-law, who died 10 years ago.

Linking can create an indirect record of property ownership: Srikanth in the TNM report said that the current linking exercise must be seen alongside the State Family Database (SFDB), “the single source of resident data” for the state. According to the expert, the SFDB was preceded by the State Resident Data Hub (SRDH or Makkal Number), an Aadhaar-linked repository of citizens’ data. Telangana with the Samagra Kutumba Survey and Andhra Pradesh with the Praja Sadhikara Survey have built similar databases offering 360 degree profiles of residents to governments, said Srikanth.

https://twitter.com/logic/status/1597406302808207360

As such, he warned that the EB-Aadhaar linking can act as an indirect record of property ownership. By combining other state government databases, the department can even look at income-wise categories of electricity bill payers. He claimed that this information has been sought by officials in the past as well.

https://twitter.com/logic/status/1597417970753753088

Can profiling turn into a surveillance mechanism? In April 2022, Vrinda Bhandari, Supreme Court advocate, told MediaNama that 360-degree profiles can enable surveillance and can disproportionately impact persons belonging to marginalised communities. She said with regards to the Maharashtra government’s plan to introduce a unique, unified ID for its residents. However, even in other states like Andhra Pradesh, data from the state’s servers, containing extensive citizens’ data collected under the Praja Sadhikara Survey, were found to have been transferred to unknown external servers. All this stresses for the need of a robust data protection law to safeguard people’s personal data.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event