India’s Cyber Security agency CERT-IN received as many as 96,383 complaints between January and September 2014, Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in the Indian Parliament last week. That amounts to 10,709 complaints per month, which is 79% higher than the 5982 complaints per month in 2013. At this rate, the total number of complaints to CERT-IN this year will be higher than 125,000.

During the same nine month period, 14,151 sites were reportedly hacked in the country. On a monthly average basis, this has declined to around 1572, as opposed to 2373 per month last year.

Citing data from the National Crime Records Bureau, the minister also indicated that as many as 5693 cybercrime cases were filed in India last year (2013) was 5693, an increase of 64% over 3477 cases filed in 2012.

A majority of these cases have been filed under the IT Act. It’s worth noting that even the number of Cyber Crime cases filed under the IPC has increased year on year, though as is evident, the number of cases filed under the IT Act has increased at a much greater rate.

On a percentage basis, many as 77% of the cases were filed under the IT Act, and this is a significant shift since 2007, wherein both the volume of cases filed under the IT Act has increased, as well as the percentage of cases filed.

This data suggests increasing pressure on the Indian government to address and prevent cyber crime, which perhaps explains the apparent focus of the ministry on trying to increase regulation of the Internet (read this , this and this ), wants servers in India to enhance monitoring (read this , this and this ) and censorship of what may be deemed as libelous or unlawful content, monitor the movement of citizens . What none of this explains, is the lack of transparency and the institution of a fair process in dealing with cyber crime .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event