SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What Indian are NOT TOLD about contemporary Sri Lanka
DATE: 2022-05-11
SCORE: 236
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/un4gmr/what_indian_are_not_told_about_contemporary_sri/

--- POST TEXT ---

1. Dear Indians, you may know very well about the corruption and crony-capitalism of the SL regime, but what is overlooked often is how authoritarian it is. Be careful Indians, for it is not impossible for series of events that led to this in SL, to happen to India. We have democracy, but no accountability. The system is so that people vote for the lesser of two evils. Make sure to have a strong organized civil society - it will help big time. 
2. If you are wondering why us, the people, were so apathetic about changing that: That's because it was and was genuinely dangerous to advocate for real change, nobody wanted to speak out in a genuinely harmful way to the institution. It hurts their interests, and this nationwide apathy led to things going way out of hand. This government and the Rajapaksa governments before has made the worst of choices to their advantage, at our expense. Even local governments are run by a 'mafia' in favor of this institution. It didn't help that they employed nationalistic and race politics - the present institution took advantage the Easter Sunday bombings to come to popularity, and then to power. Indians, beware of politicians who use emotion, race and religion to emotionally manipulate the masses - even those who use logic and reasoning to criticize them will be shunned, and a pathway to authoritarianism is opened (can't generalize though).
3. If you want to see what's happening in Sri Lanka, for what it really is - see it in twitter hashtags like #GotaHomeGota2022 #ArrestRajapaksas, or even the Sri Lankan subreddit. The internet and social media is a blessing!! Us, the people, have achieved so much and wow - we exposed a lot of government tactics from it. Glad to be alive in this digital age, where old school crooked government techniques for crushing protests fail. So many government atrocities:
4. Months ago when the first protests began, it was really peaceful. The thing is, the authorities cracked down on it. If you remember back then of a story of a bus lit ablaze, and government setting curfew and trying to end riots - people had smartphones, we even have photos of the exact person who set the bus ablaze - a government goon. We know now that local governments have professional arsonists. And this was used as justification for the crackdown - many innocent youth who gave reasonable speeches were beaten-up by the secret police. It was outrageous, hundreds of lawyers came to the courts to bail out virtually anyone brought in. Even the founder of #GotaGoHome was arrested, but freed eventually - we had to up our game.
5. International media might not highlight this, but until recently, the protests were very peaceful. Protesters from around the nation came to Galle Face and created Gotagogama - virtually a huge protest site, that was seen like a sovereign village. A similar Mynagogama was set in front of the Prime Minister's palace. Unlike anywhere else, the government cannot crackdown Gotagogama - it was very strong, and the bar association of lawyers protected. Actually, in a peaceful protest in Rambukkana, a man was even shot by police. You can tell by now how strong Gotagogama is. Around the country - peaceful protests were met with tear gas grenades.
6. Gotagogama was the heart of the movement - and yesterday, the unthinkable happened. Rajapaksha goons from around the island were brought in with buses, and they destroyed Mynagogama and Gotagogama, they injured many peaceful protestors, destroyed the infrastructure of the protest sites - even destroyed the Gotagogama library and medical sites. The police - did absolutely nothing until too late. They have tear gas artillery for peaceful protests, but watch and do nothing as this harm happened to peaceful protestors. Now this crossed the line! 
7. This clearly made a lot people angry. If your media speaks of 'Rajapaksha supporters', thats misguiding - no one is idiotic enough to support Rajapakshas in this period - only Rajapaksha goons exist now. People had had enough, and the peaceful protests turned violent. Houses of politicians, local government loyalists, etc were burned, and finally the prime minister stepped down. With the peaceful protests, we made majority of the politicians scared of us, now the ones that didn't are now afraid of us. Now the problem is, whether this would escalate uncontrollably into an anarchy - which is not the most ideal.
8. Perhaps I should share some popular conspiracy theories too: It is a very popular theory and rumor that it is in fact Rajapaksha proxies and allies who planned and executed the Easter Sunday bombings. It is also a conspiracy that the regime did the final atrocity to coax us into violence so that military rule could be established. There's also a theory that the dollar crisis was artificially fabricated by the financial minister and associates, with a scheme that includes printing a lot of money, devaluing the rupee - there is a black market for dollars where it can be exchanged for value higher that actual value.. etc.
9. Dear Indians, don't support Rajapaksha regime, and try to help in anything that doesn't make the current thing escalate into anarchy. Support any democratic groups that may spring up over the coming years. Don't let shit like this to happen in India, these can happen anywhere. If by chance a military regime is set up, pls be on the side of Sri Lankan people and not any dictator. Actually, pls always be on the side of the ppl, regardless of government. Thank you!! Stay safe!