SANJIV KHANNA, J. Leave granted. 2. The appellant before us, Saranpal Kaur Anand, is the plaintiff who

 has filed a Civil Suit, C.S. (O.S.) No. 873 of 2012, seeking: a decree

 of declaration that the suit property bearing No. 4-C/7, New Rohtak

 Road, New Delhi, is a joint undivided family property of the plaintiff

 and defendant Nos. 3 to 9 being the successors of late Harnam Signature Not Verified Singh Anand and late Harbans Kaur; a decree of declaration that Digitally signed by Charanjeet kaur Date: 2022.03.30 the purported sale deed dated 23rd August 1969 executed by late 14:08:46 IST Reason: Harbans Kaur through her alleged attorney in favour of late Tej Kaur Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 1 of 32 is a fictitious, sham, incompetent, bad, illegal, null and void; a

 decree of declaration that the purported sale deed dated 12th

 October 1995 executed by late Tej Kaur in favour of Pervinder

 Singh Chandhok (defendant No. 2) is fictitious, sham, incompetent,

 bad, illegal, nullity and void ab initio in law; and a decree for

 permanent injunction restraining Praduman Singh Chandhok and

 Pervinder Singh Chandhok (defendant Nos.1 and 2), their agents,

 nominees, successors, assigns, representatives etc., from

 raising/constructing/adding/ altering or entering into any agreement

 to sell or creating any third party interest, claims, or parting with

 possession thereof, in respect of any portion of the suit property

 besides seeking determination of the amount of damages and

 mesne profits. 3. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 filed their respective written statements

 contesting the suit. They also filed an application for rejection of the

 plaint on the ground of limitation. 4. By the order dated 7th February 2014, the Single Judge of the High

 Court settled the preliminary issue of limitation as under: 5. Subsequently the plaintiff filed two applications for amendment of

 the plaint to incorporate prayer for possession and amending the

 cause of action clause, which were taken up for hearing along with

 hearing on the preliminary issue. 6. By the order dated 6th April 2015 the Single Judge decided the

 preliminary issue holding that the suit being barred by time, the

 plaint was liable to be rejected. The applications for amendment

 filed by the plaintiff were dismissed as mala fide and not

 maintainable. 7. The impugned order dated 25th April 2016 passed by the Division

 Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal preferred by the

 plaintiff upholding the order rejecting the plaint on the ground that it

 was filed beyond the period of limitation. The applications filed for

 amendment of the plaint being unnecessary were, therefore, rightly

 rejected by the Single Judge. 8. A decision under clause (d) of Rule 11 to Order VII1 of the Code of

 Civil Procedure , 1908 (for short, ‘the Code’) normally proceeds on

 ‘demurrer’. This means that the party objecting to the legal action

 assumes the truth of the matter alleged by the opposite party and

1 “Order 7, Rule 11- Rejection of plaint - The plaint shall be rejected in the following cases:— (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law;” Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 3 of 32 sets up that it is insufficient in law to sustain the claim or there is

 some other defect on the face of the pleadings constituting a legal

 reason why the proceedings should not be allowed to proceed

 further.2 This is also the underlying principle behind clause (d) of

 Order VII Rule 11 of the Code which applies when it appears from

 a statement in the plaint that the suit is barred by any law. The law

 would include the Limitation Act,1963 . Section 3 of the Limitation

 Act mandates that every suit, appeal or application instituted,

 preferred or filed after the prescribed period, and subject to

 provisions of Sections 4 to 24 , shall be dismissed although

 limitation has not been set up as a defence. Sub-rule (2) to Rule 2

 of Order XIV3 of the Code lays down that where issues of both law

 and fact arise in the same suit, and the court is of the opinion that

 the case or any part thereof can be disposed of on an issue of law

 only, it may try that issue first if the issue (a) relates to the

 jurisdiction of the court, or (b) bar to the suit is created by any law

 for the time being in force. Therefore, when decision on issues of

 law depend upon decision on issues of fact, the issue of law should

2 See paragraph 14 in Ramesh B. Desai v. Bipin Vadilal Mehta & Ors. (2006) 5 SCC 638. 3 Order XIV Rule 2(2) Court to pronounce judgment on all issues.— (2) Where issues both of law
and of fact arise in the same suit, and the Court is of opinion that the case or any part thereof may be
disposed of on an issue of law only, it may try that issue first if the issue relates to— (a) the jurisdiction of the Court, or (b) a bar to the suit created by any law for the time being in force,
and for that purpose may, if it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of the other issues until after that issue
has been determined, and may deal with the suit in accordance with the decision on that issue. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 4 of 32 not be decided as a preliminary issue4. However, when the issue of

 law can be adjudicated on ‘admitted facts’, the court can decide the

 issue of law as a preliminary issue under Order XIV Rule 2 of the

 Code. The position of law has been succinctly stated in Nusli

 Neville Wadia v. Ivory Properties and Others5 in the following

 words: 4 See paragraph 13 and 15 in Ramesh B. Desai (supra).
5 (2020) 6 SCC 557 Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 5 of 32 answered is whether the prayer for grant of declaration that the sale

 deed dated 23rd August 1969 is null and void being fictitious, sham,

 incompetent, bad and illegal is barred by limitation, can be decided

 as a legal issue without evidence being led? 10. As per Article 586 of the Schedule of the Limitation Act , in a suit for

 declaration where Articles 567 and 578 do not apply, the plaint

 should be filed within a period of three years when the right to sue

 first accrues. On applying Article 58 to the prayer for declaration,

 that the sale deed dated 23rd August 1969 is invalid, the suit filed

 after 42 years on 27th March 2012 is clearly barred by limitation.

 However, though not adverted to in the impugned order of the

 Division Bench and the order of the Single Judge of the High Court,

 it is apparent that the plaint, for the purpose of decree of declaration

 that the sale deed dated 23rd August 1969 is invalid, relies on Section 17 of the Limitation Act, which deals with the effect of fraud

 and mistake, and reads: (b) the knowledge of the right or title on which a suit or
 application is founded is concealed by the fraud of any
 such person as aforesaid; or (c) the suit or application is for relief from the
 consequences of a mistake; or (d) where any document necessary to establish the right
 of the plaintiff or applicant has been fraudulently
 concealed from him,

 the period of Limitation shall not begin to run until the
 plaintiff or applicant has discovered the fraud or the
 mistake or could, with reasonable diligence, have
 discovered it; or in the case of a concealed document,
 until the plaintiff or the applicant first had the means of
 producing the concealed document or compelling its
 production…..”

 The general principle, which also manifests itself in Section

 17 of the Limitation Act, is that every person is presumed to know

 his own legal right and title in the property, and if he does not take

 care of his own right and title to the property, the time for filing of

 the suit based on such a right or title to the property is not prevented

 from running against him. The provisions of Section 17(1) embody

 fundamental principles of justice and equity, viz. that a party should

 not be penalised for failing to adopt legal proceedings when the

 facts or the documents have been wilfully concealed from him and

 also that a party who had acted fraudulently should not be given the

 benefit of limitation running in its favour by virtue of such frauds.9

9 Pallav Sheth v. Custodian and Others , (2001) 7 SCC 549 Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 7 of 32 However it is important to remember that Section 17 does not defer

 the starting point of limitation merely because the defendant has

 committed a fraud. Section 17 does not encompass all kinds of

 frauds, but specific situations covered by clauses (a) to (d) to Section 17(1) of the Limitation Act. Section 17(1)(b) and (d)

 encompass only those fraudulent documents or acts of

 concealment of documents which have the effect of suppressing

 knowledge entitling the party to pursue his legal remedy. Once a

 party becomes aware of antecedent facts necessary to pursue legal

 proceedings, the period of limitation commences.10 11. Therefore in the event the plaintiff makes out a case that falls within

 any or more of the four clauses to sub-section (1) to Section 17 of

 the Limitation Act, the period of limitation for filing of the suit shall

 not begin to run until the plaintiff or applicant has discovered the

 fraud/ mistake or could with reasonable diligence have discovered

 it or if the document is concealed till the plaintiff has the means of

 producing the concealed document or compelling its production a

 fortiori. 10 P. Radha Bai and Others v. P. Ashok Kumar and Another , (2019) 13 SCC 445 Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 8 of 32 12. ‘Diligence’ as a word of common parlance means attention,

 carefulness, and persistence in efforts of doing something.11 This

 Court in Chander Kanta Bansal v. Rajinder Singh Anand,12 in

 reference to proviso to Order VI Rule 17 of the Code, defined

 ‘diligence’ as: starts ticking subsequent events will not stop the limitation. The time

 starts running from the date of knowledge of the fraud/mistake; or

 the plaintiff/applicant when required to exercise reasonable

 diligence could have first known or discovered the fraud or mistake.

 In case of a concealed document, the period of limitation will begin

 to run when the plaintiff/applicant had the means of producing the

 concealed document or compelling its production. 13. Thus when the plaintiff relies on Section 17(1) (b) of the Limitation

 Act asserting fraud or mistake, he has to state the date on which he

 has discovered the fraud or mistake, and also state that he could

 not have discovered the fraud or mistake with reasonable diligence

 on a date earlier than on which he has based his cause of action. 14. Rules of pleadings relating to fraud and exemption from law of

 limitation are set out in Order VI Rule 413 and Order VII Rule 614 of

 the Code. Order VI Rule 4 lays down that in all cases where a party

 pleading relies upon fraud, particulars with respect to the date and

13 “Order VI Rule 4. Particulars to be given where necessary.—In all cases in which the party
pleading relies on any misrepresentation, fraud, breach of trust, wilful default, or undue influence, and
in all other cases in which particulars may be necessary beyond such as are exemplified in the forms
aforesaid, particulars (with dates and items if necessary) shall be stated in the pleading.”
14 “Order VII Rule 6. Grounds of exemption from limitation law.—where the suit is instituted after

the expiration of the period prescribed by the law of limitation, the plaint shall show the ground upon
which exemption from such law is claimed: the Code when there are admissions made by the plaintiff in the

 plaint and the documents which are admitted by the parties, or there

 being no dispute which would require oral evidence in the context

 of the documents. There is no bar against invoking provisions of

 Order VII Rule 11 and Order XIV Rule 2 together, or even applying

 Order XII Rule 6 while proceeding with demurrer. Provisions of the

 Code are not watertight compartments, unless such statutory

 construction is express or manifestly prohibited. we would not in the

 absence of constraints, deny the trial court or the appellate court

 flexibility in application of the procedural law. Underlying objective

 of prescribing procedure is to advance the cause of justice.

 Therefore unless compelled by express language or clear intend

 barring a course, the provisions of the Code as a procedural

 enactment ought to be construed to leave the court to meet and

 deal with situations in the ends of justice. 15. Having elucidated in brief the legal position, we would now refer to

 the averments made in the plaint in some detail: 15.2 Harbans Kaur was very close to her mother Tej Kaur and her

 brother, defendant No.1. To help them, and as a concession, she

 had permitted Tej Kaur and defendant Nos. 1 and 2 to

 temporarily reside in the suit property. Tej Kaur did not have any

 means to support herself and her family members comprising of

 defendant Nos. 1 and 2. Harbans Kaur, to make her mother Tej

 Kaur and her family members, including defendant Nos. 1 and

 2, stay in the suit property considering their financial hardships,

 had negotiated with the tenants and had paid substantial

 amounts to persuade the tenants to vacate the property.

 Harbans Kaur had filed several eviction petitions against the

 tenants who had refused to vacate. Tej Kaur died on 24th July

 2007. However, defendant Nos. 1 and 2, after the demise of Tej

 Kaur, had continued to reside and, thereafter, in spite of

 requests, refused to vacate the suit property. Tej Kaur was

 granted a permissive and limited concession to stay in the suit

 property without conferring any right, interest or title.

 15.3 The plaint also states that defendant No. 1 was in employment

 of Harnam Singh Anand at Iran. This was done to enable

 defendant No. 1 to earn a living and sustain in life and maintain

 his family with dignity. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 were deeply

 involved in the business activities and affairs at Iran. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 15 of 32 15.4 Paragraph 8 of the plaint, which is of some importance, reads as

 under: Plaintiff has therefore, sought a declaration with respect
 to said sale deed and has also prayed for its
 cancellation and finally (vii) After death of Mrs. Harbans
 Kaur and/or Mrs. Tej Kaur, the Defendants 1 and 2 were
 bound in law to hand over vacant peaceful possession
 of the suit property when called upon to do so which
 they have failed. Their possession IS absolutely illegal,
 unlawful and unauthorized and they are liable to pay
 charges towards illegal/unlawful and unauthorized use
 and occupation / mesne / profits / damages. These
 charges are payable from date of possession till date of
 delivery of vacant peaceful possession of suit property
 unto plaintiff and her family members. Inquiry is
 required to be caused by the Hon’ble Court to determine Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 16 of 32 the quantum of damages/mesne profits admissible and
 payable by Defendants 1 and 2 in the present case.”

 15.5 Paragraphs 12, 13, 14 of the plaint read as under: the reply thereto dated 15th October 2008 by defendant Nos.1

 and 2 without furnishing details; rejoinder dated 24th October

 2008, followed by specific legal notice dated 24th October 2008

 to defendant Nos. 1 and 2; and the reply thereto dated 4th

 November 2008, which again was without providing any details

 or documents. we shall subsequently refer to these letters/legal

 notices as they are of substantial importance and relevance. It is

 pleaded that defendant Nos. 1 and 2, acting illegally and

 arbitrarily, have instigated and induced defendant Nos. 6 to 8,

 namely Damanpal Kaur Anand, Jaspreet Singh Anand and

 Gursimar Singh Anand (wife and children of late Kultaran Singh

 Anand, brother of the plaintiff), to rake up false, inconsistent

 claims and issues to divide the family and drag them into inter

 se litigation. At the behest and insistence of defendant Nos. 1 Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 20 of 32 and 2, defendant Nos. 6 to 8 have initiated several proceedings

 against the plaintiff, her brother and other family members, which

 are still pending. In one such proceeding, from the written

 statement filed by defendant Nos. 7 and 8 on 16th December

 2010, the plaintiff for the first time came to vaguely know about

 the purported sale of the suit property by Harbans Kaur to Tej

 Kaur. The plaintiff and other family members were utterly

 shocked and surprised and thus became suspicious about the

 intentions of defendant Nos. 1 and 2. Thereafter, the plaintiff had

 made enquiries of various court proceedings, pending and

 disposed of matters. Whereas at one such enquiry made in the

 Office of the Sub-Registrar, Delhi, they came to know about the

 fictitious, sham, illegal, fraudulent transactions created by

 defendant Nos. 1 and 2. 15.8 Paragraph Nos. 22 and 33 of the plaint state that the plaintiff was

 completely in the dark and had no knowledge of the sale deed

 dated 23rd August 1969 and the subsequent sale deed dated 12th

 October 1995. Regarding the date on which the cause of action

 arose, the plaint states: It again arose on 12.10.1995 when purported fictitious
 sale deed was executed by Late Smt. Tej Kaur in favour
 of defendant no. 2 in respect of the subject property.
 The cause of action further arose on 30.05.2007 when
 purported Will bequeathing the subject property was
 executed by Smt. Tej Kaur in favour of Defendant No. 2
 on the basis of the purported fictitious sale deed dated
 23.08.1969 claimed to be registered on 27.08.1969.
 The cause of action again arose in on 10.10.2008,
 24.10.2008, when the defendants No.1 & 2 when called
 upon to admit and acknowledge the rights/interest/title
 of the Plaintiff and her family members and handover
 the possession of the suit property denied vide reply
 dated 15.10.2008 and 04.11.2008…”16

16The plaintiff had filed an application under Order VI Rule 17 of the code (I.A. No. 7950 of 2014),
seeking to amend paragraph 33 of the plaint by incorporating the following additional facts: and 2 in resorting to illegal/unlawful creation of purported sale deeds applied and
 obtained certified copies of the purported sale deeds dated 12.10.1995 and the
 purported sale deed dated 23.08.1969 registered on 27.08.1969 respectively from the
 office of the Sub-Registrar, Delhi pursuant to the disclosures made in the Written
 Statement dated 16.12.2010 filed by the defendants Nos. 7 and 8 in C.S. (O.S.) No.
 1677 of 2010 titled as Gurdev Singh Anand and Ors. v. Jaspreet Singh Anand and
 Anr., legal notices and responses received and the extensive inquries/searches made
 in the office of the Sub-Registrar Delhi.”

The additional facts, as mentioned, would not make any difference to the present outcome in view of
the finding that the plaintiff had knowledge about execution of the sale deed dated 23 rd August 1969,
if not earlier at least in 2008. It is also discernible that she could have with reasonable diligence in the
given facts as pleaded in the plaint, ascertained and known facts relating to the execution of the sale
deed dated 23rd August 1969. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 23 of 32 The sale deeds are also fraudulent on the count of being without

 consideration. They are a result of a conspiracy hatched by the

 defendant Nos. 1 and 2 amongst themselves with Harbans Kaur

 and Tej Kaur with the sole and cheap objective to usurp the

 lawful ownership and title of the plaintiff and the defendant Nos.

 3 to 9. The plaintiff’s deceased mother could never have and had

 no intent or purpose or necessity to execute the sale deed in

 favour of Tej Kaur. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 are in permissive

 possession, having limited and restricted rights to use and

 occupy the property through late Tej Kaur. The ownership, title

 and interest claim predicated by them are based on documents,

 mutations, etc., that are inconsequential in law, not valid, being

 fraudulent, concocted act of forgery, fabrication,

 misrepresentation, etc. Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 are liable to be

 removed from the suit property once the purpose and object of

 granting permissive possession, restricted and limited right to

 use and occupy the suit premises has been served. It is claimed

 that the plaintiff is entitled to seek recovery of mesne profits at

 the rate of Rs. 1 lakh per year or such rate as determined by

 courts from defendant Nos. 1 and 2 for the illegal, unlawful and

 unauthorised use and occupation of the suit property. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 24 of 32 16. The sale deed dated 23rd August 1969 in favour of Tej Kaur was

 executed by Gurdev Singh Anand as the attorney of Harbans Kaur.

 Gurdev Singh Anand, the third defendant in the suit, is the brother

 of the plaintiff. Execution of the sale deed and signatures of Gurdev

 Singh Anand acting as the attorney of his mother Harbans Kaur are

 undisputed. The sale deed is a registered document. The plaint

 accepts that the sale was for a consideration of Rs.90,000/- . The

 sale deed states that Rs.20,000/- was received in advance and

 Rs.30,000/- was paid before the Sub-Registrar. The balance

 amount of Rs.40,000/- was to be paid to the vendor by the vendee

 in four equal monthly instalments. The plaint does not state if any

 suit or proceedings were initiated for the recovery of Rs.40,000/-.

 Any suit or proceedings for recovery of Rs.40,000/- would be barred

 by limitation. The sale deed mentions that on the date of execution

 Harbans Kaur was present in Tehran, Iran, and therefore, her son

 Gurdev Singh Anand, who is the brother of the plaintiff, as an

 attorney, was executing the sale deed as authorised vide Special

 Power of Attorney authenticated on 23rd August 1969. These facts

 are again not challenged and contested in the plaint. Sale deed

 dated 23th August 1969 is more than thirty years old, and during the

 lifetime of Harbans Kaur or Tej Kaur it was never challenged and

 questioned by Harbans Kaur or any of their family members. In Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 25 of 32 terms of Section 90 of the Evidence Act, the presumption is that the

 signature and every other part of the document, its execution and

 attestation is by persons by whom it purports to be executed and

 attested. 17. Legal notice dated 10th October 2008, states that late Harbans

 Kaur, after her marriage, took steps to establish late Tej Kaur and

 her son Praduman Singh Chandhok, the first defendant. The legal

 notice dated 10th October 2008 regarding the suit property states: 18. The language and the words used in the legal notices on behalf of

 the plaintiff and other family members are admissions of facts which

 uncover the illusion made by creative and crafty narration to

 obfuscate the patent delay of over four decades. To get over the

 admissions, the plaintiff has submitted that the word/expression

 used in the notices is ‘given’ and not ‘transfer/sale’. That the word

 ‘given’ used is factually correct, albeit when one reads the notices

 holistically it is lucid that the plaintiff, along with her family members

 and defendant No.3, have accepted that there was transfer of the Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 27 of 32 suit property in favour of Tej Kaur. The notice was for partition of

 the estate left behind by Tej Kaur in the form of the suit property.

 The plaintiff in the notices did not challenge the legal title of Tej Kaur

 but had claimed the right of inheritance being a granddaughter of

 Tej Kaur. Further, the plaintiff was aware and had knowledge of the

 Will dated 3rd May 2007 executed by Tej Kaur. The bequest

 included the suit property is a fact admitted by the plaintiff in

 paragraph 14 of the plaint. Reliance placed on the eviction

 proceedings does not further the plaintiff’s case, as on reading of

 paragraphs 14 to 18 of the plaint it is manifest that the compromise

 between the tenant and defendant Nos. 1 and 2 as owners/landlord

 had led to the withdrawal of the proceedings vide order dated 29th

 September 2008. This order placed on record and relied by the

 plaintiff states that the rights and claims of the plaintiff and the legal

 representatives of Harbans Kaur are protected, while referring to

 the ownership and inheritance claimed by defendant Nos. 1 and 2

 as legal heirs of Tej Kaur. Legal notices dated 10th October 2008

 and 24th October 2008 were issued after the order dated 29th

 September 2008 was passed. 19. In view of the said background, the assertions made in the plaint by

 the plaintiff against her mother late Harbans Kaur that she had

 acted in an active and joint concert, connivance and conspiracy with Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 28 of 32 late Tej Kaur are self-serving and phantastic. As per need and

 factual background of the matter, assertions in the pleadings have

 to be examined and understood with other statements and

 documents relied by the plaintiff without feeling helpless and

 paralysed by unclear, illusory or contradictory drafting. Meaningful

 reading of the entire plaint may be required when grossly

 implausible and dubious statements are made.17 The idea is to

 check and weed out manifestly vexatious and meritless cases at

 the threshold.18 20. The plaint accepts the close relationship inter se the parties as

 relatives and in business activities. The person who had executed

 the sale deed in 1969 as attorney of Harbans Kaur is the brother of

 the plaintiff with whom the plaintiff has no dispute. Tej Kaur and

 defendant Nos. 1 and 2 were residing in the suit property. No claim

 was made until the death of the plaintiff’s mother and grandmother,

 Harbans Kaur and Tej Kaur respectively, on 6th August 2005 and

 24th July 2007. Harnam Singh Anand had died earlier in 1974. For

 42 years post the execution of the sale deed in 1969, there was no

 dispute and challenge to the ownership of Tej Kaur. In 2008,

 disputes had arisen but regarding inheritance of the estate of Tej

17 See T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal (1977) 2 SCC 467
18 See Madanuri Sri Rama Chandra Murthy v. Syed Jala (2017) 13 SCC 174 Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 29 of 32 Kaur however the plaintiff and defendant No. 3 did not challenge

 the title and ownership of Tej Kaur. In this background, as the plea

 of lack of knowledge appears to be conjured and unreal, we read

 the pleading and the documents with discernment and

 perceptiveness without getting carried away by bald and

 pretentious accusations that do not infuse with the accepted and

 ‘admitted’ facts. 21. As already observed, the notices dated 10th October 2008 and 24th

 October 2008 are admitted and referred to without reservation in

 the plaint. They have been filed by the plaintiff with the plaint as

 relevant documents relied upon by the plaintiff. The plaint does

 not dispute or explain the contents and admissions made in the two

 notices. 22. Consequently, on application of the principle of demurrer, it has to

 be held, on the basis of the averments made in the plaint and the

 documents relied upon and admitted by the plaintiff, that even prior

 to 2008, the plaintiff was aware and had knowledge of the sale deed

 dated 23rd August 1969 by which the ownership rights were

 transferred to Tej Kaur. The plaintiff did not, in 2008, question and

 challenge the transfer, though she was fully aware that Tej Kaur

 had acquired ownership rights. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 30 of 32 23. We have denoted the ambit and conditions of Section 17(1) of the

 Limitation Act, which is to protect rights of a party defrauded from

 lapse of time till he remains in ignorance of the fraud, or with

 reasonable diligence could have discovered the fraud. Section

 17(1) does not assist a person who merely shuts his eyes in spite

 of circumstances requiring him to ascertain facts on which he would

 have discovered the fraud. Section 17(1) of the Limitation Act saves

 rights of the party defrauded from lapse of time as long as the party

 is not at fault on his own account. In the aforesaid factual

 background, it is apparent that the plaintiff was aware and had

 knowledge in October 2008 about execution and transfer of the

 ownership rights in favour of late Tej Kaur vide sale deed dated 23rd

 August 1969 executed by defendant No.3, Gurdev Singh Anand.

 Unadorned assertion in the plaint feigning ignorance as to the sale

 deed would not help, as in the facts as pleaded and accepted in the

 plaint, the plaintiff was required to state and indicate that ignorance

 was not due to failure to exercise reasonable diligence. 24. In view of the aforesaid facts and position of law, we dismiss this

 appeal and uphold the judgment of the Single Judge and the

 Division Bench of the High Court dismissing the suit as being barred

 by limitation. We also affirm the judgment of the Single Judge and Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 31 of 32 the Division Bench with regard to the dismissal of two applications

 filed by the plaintiff for amendment of pleadings under Order VI

 Rule 17 of the Code, namely IA Nos. 17994/2012 and 7590/2014

 on the ground that when the suit itself has been barred by limitation,

 amendments to such a suit will be unnecessary. 25. Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of. 26. Parties to bear their own costs. ......................................J.
 (SANJIV KHANNA)

NEW DELHI; MARCH 28, 2022. Civil Appeal a/o. of SLP (C) No. 27794 of 2016 Page 32 of 32 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CIVIL APPEAL NO. OF 2022
 [Arising out of SLP(CIVIL) NO. 27794 OF 2016]

 SARANPAL KAUR ANAND ..... APPELLANT

 VERSUS

 PRADUMAN SINGH CHANDHOK & ORS ..... RESPONDENTS

 J U D G M E N T

BELA M. TRIVEDI, J. 1) Having gone through the opinion expressed by my esteemed brother

Justice Sanjiv Khanna, I with respect, express my inability to agree with the same.

In my humble opinion, the impugned judgments of the High Court of Delhi,

passed by the Single Bench and the Division Bench are in utter disregard to the

provisions contained in the Code of Civil Procedure ( CPC ) as also to the legal

position well settled by this Court in umpteen number of cases. The basic legal

premise on which both the courts have proceeded for rejecting the plaint, being

erroneous the same cannot be vindicated for the reasons to follow. 2) Special leave to appeal is granted. 1 3) Though I propose to deal with only the legal issues involved in the case, a

few basic facts emerging from the record need to be stated. For the sake of

convenience, the parties shall be referred as per their original status in the suit. (i) The Appellant in the present Appeal Smt. Saranpal Kaur Anand

 (Daughter of Late Sardar Harnam Singh Anand and Smt.

 Harbans Kaur) was the plaintiff in the Civil Suit being CS(OS)

 No. 873 of 2012 filed her in the Delhi High Court in its original

 jurisdiction. (ii) The respondent nos. 1 to 9 herein were the defendant nos. 1 to

 9 in the suit. The defendant no. 1 Praduman Singh Chandhok

 happened to be the brother of the plaintiff’s mother and

 defendant no. 2 happened to be the son of defendant no.1. The

 defendant nos. 3 to 9 happened to be the legal heirs and

 successors of the Late Sardar Harnam Singh Anand and Smt.

 Harbans Kaur. (iii) The plaintiff filed the suit in question on 27th March, 2012

 against the defendants seeking a decree of declaration that the

 suit property being No.4-C/7, New Rohtak Road, New Delhi

 was the joint undivided family property of the plaintiff and

 defendant nos. 3 to 9 and that defendants nos. 1 & 2 had no right

 title or interest upon or to the said property. The plaintiff sought

 further declaration that the purported sale deed dated 23 rd 2 August, 1969 alleged to have been executed by Smt. Harbans

 Kaur through her alleged attorney in favour of Smt. Tej Kaur

 was fictitious, sham, nullity and void ab initio and, therefore,

 deserved to be cancelled. The plaintiff also sought a declaration

 that the purported sale deed dated 12.10.1995 executed by Smt.

 Tej Kaur in favour of defendant no. 2 was fictitious, sham,

 nullity and void ab initio. The plaintiff further sought a prayer

 for permanent injunction against defendant nos. 1 and 2 for

 restraining them from carrying out any

 construction/addition/alteration, or entering into any agreement

 to sell or creating third party interest in respect of any portion

 of the suit property. (iv) On 10.05.2012, the defendant nos. 1 & 2 filed their respective

 written statements raising various contentions and praying for

 the dismissal of the suit. (v) On 15.05.2012, the defendant no. 2 filed an application seeking

 rejection of the plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d) CPC being

 I.A. No. 9950 of 2012 in the suit. (vi) On 11.09.2012, the plaintiff filed an application under Order VI

 Rule 17 CPC being I.A.No. 17994 of 2012 seeking amendment

 in the plaint for incorporating the relief of possession in the

 prayer clause. 3 (vii) On 07.02.2014, the Trial Court i.e. the Single Bench of the High

 Court framed a preliminary issue as under: (x) Being aggrieved by the said judgment and decree passed by the

 Trial Court /Single Bench, the plaintiff preferred an appeal 4 being RFA (OS) No.54 of 2015 under section 96 of CPC before

 the Appellate Court/Division Bench of the High Court. The

 Division Bench confirmed the order passed by the Single Bench

 and dismissed the said Appeal vide the impugned judgment and

 order dated 25th April, 2016. The Division Bench while

 dismissing the Appeal also took recourse to the provisions

 contained in Order XII Rule 6 CPC , which was not the issue

 before the Single Bench. 4) Being aggrieved by the impugned judgment passed by the Division Bench

of the High Court, the appellant-plaintiff has filed the present Appeal. 5) Having regard to the impugned orders passed by the Single Bench and the

Division Bench of the High Court, following questions fall for consideration:- -Order VII Rule 11 reads as under: (b) … (c) … (d) where the suit appears from the statement in
 the plaint to be barred by any law; (e) … (f) … -Order XII Rule 6 reads as under: 11 -Order XIV Rule 2 reads as under: (2) Where issues both of law and of fact arise in
 the same suit, and the Court is of opinion that the
 case or any part thereof may be disposed of on
 an issue of law only, it may try that issue first if
 the issue relates to— (a) the jurisdiction of the
 Court, or (b) a bar to the suit created by any law
 for the time being in force, and for that purpose
 may, if it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of
 the other issues until after that issue has been
 determined, and may deal with the suit in
 accordance with the decision on that issue. 11) The basic postulate underlined in clause (a) and clause (d) of Rule 11 Order

VII is that while rejecting the plaint under the said provisions, the court is required

to see only the averments made in the plaint and the documents, if any, annexed

to the plaint, and not to the written statement or other documents which are not 12 part of the plaint. In case of Kamala & Ors Vs. K.T. Eshwara Sa & Ors.5 , it has

been observed that for the purpose of invoking Order VII Rule 11 (d) of CPC , no

amount of evidence can be looked into and that the conclusion that the suit is

barred under any law must be drawn from the averments made in the plaint. To

be precise, it was held as under:- But, then the broad principle which can be culled 5 (2008) 12 SCC 661 13 out therefrom is that the court at that stage would
 not consider any evidence or enter into a disputed
 question of fact of law. In the event, the jurisdiction
 of the court is found to be barred by any law,
 meaning thereby, the subject matter thereof, the
 application for registration of plaint should be
 entertained.” 12) In case of Salim Bhai and Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors.6, it was

made clear that for the purpose of deciding an application under clauses (a) and (d) of Rule 11 of Order VII, CPC , the averments in the plaint are germane; the

plea taken by the defendant in the written statement would be wholly irrelevant.

Similar view has been taken by this Court in case of Soumitra Kumar Sen Vs.

Shyamal Kumar Sen and Ors.7 , in para 9 thereof, it was observed as under:- Vs. Central bank of India and Another 8, it was also observed as under:- 10 of the Limitation Act we find certain facts are
to be established to throw the lis from the sphere
of the said provision so that it would come
within the concept of limitation. The Division
Bench has fallen into some error without
appreciating the facts in proper perspective. That
apart, the Division Bench, by taking recourse to Articles 92 to 96 without appreciating the
factum that it uses the words “transferred by the
trustee for a valuable consideration” in that
event the limitation would be twelve years but in
the instant case the asseveration of the plaintiff
is that the trustee had created three settlement
deeds in favour of his two daughters and a
granddaughter. The issue of consideration has
not yet emerged. This settlement made by the
father was whether for consideration or not has
to be gone into and similarly whether the
property belongs to the Trust as Trust is
understood within the meaning of Section 10 of
the Limitation Act has also to be gone into. Ergo,
there can be no shadow of doubt that Issue 1 that
was framed by the learned Single Judge was an
issue that pertained to the fact and law and
hence, could not have been adjudicated as a
preliminary issue. Therefore, the impugned
order [ Satti Paradesi Samadhi v. M. Sankuntala ,
(2012) 2 LW 865 (Mad)] is wholly
unsustainable.” 17 18) In Ramesh B. Desai Vs. Bipin Vadilal Mehta11 , it has been held as under:- In the said case, a reference was made to the three Judge Bench with respect to

the interpretation of the provisions contained in section 9 A of CPC as inserted

by the Maharashtra Amendment Act, 1977 and the court held that the provisions

contained in section 3 read with sections 4 to 24 of the Limitation Act, 1963 do

not provide that the court has no jurisdiction to deal with the matter. It has been

further held that so long as the court has the jurisdiction to try the suit, it cannot

proceed to dismiss it on the ground of limitation under section 3 , and that unless

the question is a pure question of law, it cannot be decided as a preliminary issue

under Order XIV Rule 2. The Bench further opined that mixed question of law

and fact cannot be decided as a preliminary issue under Order XIV Rule 2. The

court elaborately dealt with the provisions contained in Order XIV Rule 2 (2) in

the light of the Limitation Act and observed as under:- 12 52. In a case question of limitation can be
decided based on admitted facts, it can be
decided as a preliminary issue under Order XIV
Rule 2(2)(b). Once facts are disputed about
limitation, the determination of the question of
limitation also cannot be made under Order XIV
Rule 2(2) as a preliminary issue or any other
such issue of law which requires examination of
the disputed facts. In case of dispute as to facts,
is necessary to be determined to give a finding
on a question of law. Such question cannot be
decided as a preliminary issue. In a case, the
question of jurisdiction also depends upon the
proof of facts which are disputed. It cannot be
decided as a preliminary issue if the facts are
disputed and the question of law is dependent
upon the outcome of the investigation of facts,
such question of law cannot be decided as a 20 preliminary issue, is settled proposition of law
 either before the amendment of CPC and post
 amendment in the year 1976. 53. The suit/application which is barred by
 limitation is not a ground of jurisdiction of the
 court to entertain a suit. If a plea of adverse
 possession has been taken under Article 65 of
 the Limitation Act , in case it is successfully
 proved on facts; the suit has to be dismissed. However, it is not the lack of the jurisdiction of
 the Court that suit has to be dismissed on the
 ground of limitation, but proof of adverse
 possession for 12 years then the suit would be
 barred by limitation such question as to
 limitation cannot be decided as a preliminary
 issue. …….. 55. Reliance has been placed on the provisions
 of Section 3 of the Limitation Act to submit that
 the Court cannot proceed with the suit which is
 barred by limitation although limitation has not
 been set up as a defence. No doubt about it that Section 3 of the Act provides that subject to the
 provisions contained in Section 4 and 24 of the
 Limitation Act, every suit instituted, appeal
 preferred, and the application made after the
 prescribed period shall be dismissed, it nowhere
 provides that Court has no jurisdiction to deal
 with the matter. Until and unless Court has the
 jurisdiction, it cannot proceed to dismiss it on
 the ground of limitation under Section 3 .” 20) From the afore-stated decisions of this Court, there remains no shadow of

doubt that a plea of limitation cannot be decided as an abstract principle of law 21 divorced from the facts as in every case the starting point of limitation has to be

ascertained which is entirely a question of fact. A plea of limitation being mixed

question of law and fact cannot be decided as a preliminary issue under Order

XIV, Rule 2(2). 21) Now, so far as pronouncing a judgement on admission under Order XII

Rule 6 is concerned, again the law is well settled that for an admission to qualify

as a valid admission, it necessarily has to be an unequivocal, unambiguous and

unconditional. Considering the objects and reasons for amending Order XII, Rule

6, it has been held in case of Uttam Singh Dugal & Co. Ltd. Vs. United Bank of

India & Ors13 . that:- Even the admissions made by the parties to the interrogatories and recorded by

the court as contemplated in Order X CPC also could be taken into consideration,

nonetheless Order XII, Rule 6 could be resorted to only when there is clear and

unambiguous admission of facts, and not otherwise. The said Rule 6 also could

not be invoked by the Appellate Court suo moto in the Appeal, when the trial

court had not dealt with such issue, and had rejected the plaint under Order VII,

Rule 11(d) CPC . 24) So far as the facts of the present case are concerned, as stated earlier the

Single Bench had rejected the plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d) after framing a

preliminary issue under Order XIV Rule 2(2) of CPC . The Single Bench after

taking into consideration the written statement and other documents held that the

suit was barred by law of Limitation and rejected the plaint under Order VII, Rule 15 (2010) 4 SCC 753 16 (2005) 11 SCC 279 24 11(d) CPC . Apart from the fact that no preliminary issue could have been framed

under Order XIV, Rule 2(2) with regard to the issue of limitation which was a

mixed question of law and fact, the Single Bench erroneously considered the

written statement and the documents filed by the defendant while rejecting the

plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC . The Division Bench also fallaciously

referred to the contentions raised in the written statement and referred to the

documents namely CM Applications filed in some eviction proceedings, which

were neither referred to in the plaint nor annexed to the plaint. The Division

Bench further erroneously relied upon some statements made in the legal notices

dated 10.10.2008 and 24.10.2008 construing them as an admission on the part of

the plaintiff for passing judgment under Order XII, Rule 6 against the plaintiff,

while confirming the order passed by the Single Bench rejecting the plaint of the

plaintiff under Order VII, Rule 11(d) CPC . In the opinion of the Court there was

no clear, unambiguous and unconditional admission made by the plaintiff in any

of the said legal notices which could be termed as an admission of the claim made

by the defendant with regard to the knowledge of the plaintiff in respect of the

execution of the alleged sale deeds. On the contrary, the plaintiff had pleaded

fraud committed against her and other defendants who were the legal

representatives of Smt. Harbans Kaur. The Court at this juncture is not inclined

to go into the merits of the issues involved in the suit. Suffice it to say that the

Single Bench and the Division Bench have passed the impugned orders de hors 25 the specific provisions of CPC and in utter disregard of the position of law settled

by this Court. 25. Even if, the Single Bench had found that the suit was filed misusing the

process of law or that an illusion was created with regard to the cause of action

by clever drafting , in that case also Order VII Rule 11 could not have been

resorted to. As held by Supreme Court in a well-known case of T. Arivandandam

Vs. T.V. Satyapal & Anr.17 , the powers under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC have to

be exercised taking care to see that the ground mentioned therein is fulfilled. It is

further held therein that if clever drafting has created an illusion of a cause of

action, the Court should nip it in the bud at the first hearing by examining the

party searchingly under Order X, CPC . 26) It is also a trite law that the inherent jurisdiction under Section 151 CPC

cannot be exercised to nullify the provisions of the CPC . The inherent powers of

the court are in addition to the powers specifically conferred on the court by the

Code, and cannot be exercised in a manner which will be contrary or different

from the procedure expressly provided in the Code. The scope of Section 151 was

considered by this Court as back as in 1964 in case of Arjun Singh Vs. Mohindra

Kumar & Ors18 , in which it was aptly held as under:- …..................................J.
 [BELA M. TRIVEDI]
NEW DELHI; MARCH 28, 2022. In view of the difference of opinion expressed by two

 separate judgments, the Registry is directed to place the

 matter before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for

 appropriate orders/directions. ……………………………………………. .J.
 [SANJIV KHANNA]

 ……………………………………………. .J.
 [ BELA M. TRIVEDI]

 NEW DELHI; MARCH 28, 2022