Fintech company Paytm reported a 100% year-on-year (YoY) rise in its financial services revenue to register Rs 561 crore as of June 2025, as compared to Rs 280 crore in June 2024. Paytm’s financial services business consists of services like loan distribution, business and personal loans, and investment and wealth management services via Paytm Money. The rise in financial services revenue stemmed from expansion in merchant loans, trail revenue from the company’s Default Loss Guarantee (DLG) portfolio, and improved asset quality that Paytm’s partners are currently experiencing.

In Q1FY26, 560,000 users (customers and merchants) availed loans, equity broking, and insurance through Paytm. During the earnings call for the quarter ending in June 2025 (Q1FY26), Paytm CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma mentioned that the “needle-moving behavior” in the financial services segment is coming from merchant loans.

A major development in the loan disbursement method in Q1 was that Paytm’s biggest lending partner shifted from DLG loans to non-DLG loans. DLGs refer to agreements where non-banking financial institutions compensate banks for losses incurred through selling loans via their institution. Sharma explained that this inherently shows that “the [lending] book has performed incredibly good for lenders to have their risk and comfort to be deciding [this].” Paytm disbursed the majority of the merchant loans under the non-DLG model and distributed more than 50% of the loans to repeat borrowers.

While the company has not disclosed its largest lending partner, it mentions that this partner accounts for 30-40% of the lending business segment. “And there’s a reason for it. While we have a huge amount of lending capacity available with other lenders, especially the lenders who have joined in the last 6 or 9 months who have done successful scale-up to a certain level but have a lot more appetite, especially in merchant lending, the majority of the business is repeat business,” the company’s CFO Madhur Deora mentioned. He explained that the partner who gives the first loan ends up processing the vast majority of the repeat loans.

Deora revealed that this partner is largely involved in merchant lending. “Our book with other partners in merchant lending over the last nine months has grown significantly faster, obviously from a smaller base in each case, than with this partner. So it is shifting, but it happens gradually because of the repeat and pop-up business nature of this,” he added.

In its earnings release, the company explained that there are two types of merchant relationships in the offline enterprise segment with regard to POS:

Paytm has largely focused on this model, wherein it earns payment processing margins on every transaction in addition to the subscription fees. However, it has also started integrating brands and tied up with banks in the POS provider model as well. When asked whether this commentary was an indicator of changes to the POS business, Sharma clarified that Paytm is focused on the payment gateway segment.

“We own the machine, we own the customer. We are in that business. That is what we have tried to qualitative talk about [it] because it is important to know that there are two business models where one, like you said, bank owns the customer or bank owns the boss, versus our model where we effectively own the customer and the machine and we route the payment processing to a bank. And that is the business that we are in. That’s why we call it full stack,” he explained.

As of Q1, Paytm has 13 million merchant subscriptions, as a result of its payment devices. During the call, Deora mentioned that roughly over a million of the total devices the company provides its merchant customers are POS devices. “Historically, we have thought about soundbox and EDC [electronic data capture] as two different things. Now it’s a spectrum. Because now we also have a card soundbox with a screen,” Deora explained.

In Q1FY26, Paytm broke even in its payments business with a revenue of Rs 529 crore. This business segment includes revenue from merchant subscriptions (to payment devices), any interest rate, and MDR (merchant discount rate). Paytm sees significant monetisation potential in the payments business from value-added services, merchant loan distribution and enabling commerce through marketing services.

“I do believe payment is [a] profitable business, like you’re seeing. Without UPI MDR, we are talking profits. And I do believe payment standalone is profitable and has operating leverage. We continue to push operating leverage of creating more solutions and value-adds on top of as basic as processing, if you will. And that’s where the differentiation in the payment business comes,” Sharma explained.

In an earnings call in 2023 , the company had mentioned that it was scaling down its buy now, pay later (BNPL) service, Paytm Postpaid, because of its declining base. This quarter, when an investor asked the company about the product and whether the company’s decision to revive the BNPL offering depended on the company restarting wallets, Deora emphasised that the company does not peg the BNPL service on wallets, and that both these are independent of each other.

Sharma confirmed that if the company sees a recovery in personal credit, BNPL would come back. “I personally love the product, and I’m personally a champion of it, and like we said it, when the personal credit comes back, BNPL will come back. We totally believe that it will come back,” he affirmed.

The company emphasised that merchant payments are a core focus of its business. “Merchant Payments is the core, and there’s a huge amount of growth possibilities there, huge amount of innovation possible, and we are going to drive that. In a sense, that is a big focus area. Vijay’s mentioned wallet and BNPL earlier, and that is something which is not like a one-month or two-month thing, but that is something that we’re actively working on,” Deora asserted.

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposed a range of restrictions on Paytm Payments Bank Limited (PPBL) in March 2024. Following this, Paytm discontinued various inter-company agreements with PPBL. When an investor asked whether this led to an increase in Paytm’s credit card accepting devices, Sharma confirmed it. The investor further asked that based on RBI data, PPBL had a 7-8% market share in POS devices. To this, Deora confirmed that the company has increased its share of POS devices.

“We’re just super focused on AI, which is something that we have called out in this meeting on every customer product, and every internal process should be AI-first,” Deora mentioned during the earnings call.

And sure enough, the Q1FY26 earnings report reflects the same as AI-based fraud detection, customer onboarding and retention across products have been its key focus areas. Deora mentioned that internally the company had held this AI-first stance for a year and a half now, and finally felt ready to talk about it.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event