?If There’s One Story To Read Today

You may like or dislike ‘influencers’, but it’s hard to ignore them now

Anyone who’s aware of the craze for Shah Rukh Khan’s #AskSRK sessions and its role in promoting Pathaan on Twitter is not oblivious to the role of social media marketing of a brand’s growth. The growing popularity of ‘influencers’ on these platforms, particularly Instagram, has got traditional celebrities on their toes for being in touch with their followers actively.

Gone are the days when it was all about the creation and expression of talent in these spaces. Today, influencers exercise the power to influence users’ choices and consumption behaviour, becoming a key to holistic social media marketing for brands. Those missing out on this are made to feel they are losing out on connecting with their audiences.

But, are all creators influencers also? Is there a way to identify what differentiates them from each other? And how do they bridge the gap between a brand and a consumer in a tangible manner? The Advertising Standards Council of India explores these questions in their latest report on ‘Wielding Influence, Nurturing Trust’. Check out to know. [ Read , 6 minutes ]

? Your Tech Policy Agenda

?Today’s Top Stories

DIGITAL PAYMENTS

Amazon Pay Up: RBI has fined Amazon Pay ₹3 crores for violating KYC and prepaid payment instrument (PPI) norms. What were the violations? We don’t know, but the company should pray that it doesn’t hurt its payment aggregator licence application. Also, no, there’s no discount for paying the fine with Amazon Pay. [ Read , 1 minute ]

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE

Drone, drone everywhere: Music, dance, and drones appear to have become a necessity for any celebration in India these days. Law enforcement agencies are using drones to monitor crowded areas during festivals. But why don’t the authorities disclose what they do with the collected data? The authorities should demonstrate the evidence of the benefits of surveillance technology if they plan to work it into police work, no? [ Read ?, 1.5 minutes ]

Third time is the charm? Ever since the overturning of Roe vs. Wade, personal health and location data have finally gotten the importance they have always deserved. US lawmakers last week introduced yet another bill to protect these two types of data from being used in advertising or being sold to data brokers, but how far will this bill go compared to the two similar bills introduced last year that didn’t make much progress? We’ll have to wait and see. [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

An empty filing cabinet : The government doesn’t have information on which of its recent bills or rules complied with the pre-legislative consultation policy. Translation: there’s no record if the recent laws complied with the policy’s principles of transparent and accountable law-making. That’s one seriously empty filing cabinet. [ Read , 2 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

One more SRB under IT Rules, 2021: There are now ten self-regulatory bodies after India’s information & broadcasting ministry approved an SRB for publishers of news. It is still a matter of concern that we do not know how these bodies are approved by the MIB especially if the purported aim of the IT Rules is to promote transparency. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

CYBERSECURITY

Copy, paste : We asked the Indian government when we can expect the much-awaited national cybersecurity strategy will be announced. The ambiguous answer we got sounded suspiciously like the IT Minister’s response to a similar question in parliament. In short, we know the government’s drafted a “holistic” cybersecurity policy. As for when it’ll actually be released—your guess is as good as ours. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Cybersecurity with American characteristics : The US government just released its national cybersecurity strategy. Its bottom line: it needs to seriously upgrade its cybersecurity practices, and invest in better ones for the future. Other highlights (that are more interesting) include: the government’s support for personal data protection legislation, investigating the “abuse” of digital currencies to launder ransoms, and “strong” digital identity solutions. [ Read ?, 9 minutes ]

? Tech Policy from Around the World

WhatsApp agrees to be more transparent on policy changes, EU says [ Read ] (Foo Yun Chee, Charlotte Campenhout/Reuters)

They thought loved ones were calling for help. It was an AI scam. [ Read ] (Pranshu Verma/ The Washington Post)

China to Create New Top Regulator for Data Governance [ Read ] (Keith Zhai/The Wall Street Journal)

Texts From Crypto Giant Binance Reveal Plan to Elude U.S. Authorities [ Read ] (Caitlin Ostroff, Patricia Kowsmann/ The Wall Street Journal)

Facebook’s willing to reform its controversial cross-check program — but only parts of it [ Read ] (Emma Roth/The Verge)

Alleged security breach leaves millions of dollars missing from Flutterwave accounts [ Read ] (Tage Kene-Okafor/Tech Crunch)

Singapore Police Have Begun Probing Crypto Fugitive Do Kwon’s Terraform Labs [ Read ] (Suvashree Ghosh and Joanna Ossinger/Bloomberg)

The UK Is Using Drones to Prosecute Small-Boat Migrant Smugglers [ Read ] (Saksha Menezes/Bloomberg)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event